{"id": "21206592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21206592", "title": "Act (document)", "text": "Act (document)\n\nAn act is an instrument that records a fact or something that has been said, done, or agreed. Acts generally take the form of legal instruments of writing that have probative value and executory force. They are usually accepted as self-authenticating demonstrative evidence in court proceedings, though with the precarious status of notaries public and their acts under common law, this is not always so.\n\nCommon types of acts are legislative, judicial, and notarial acts.\n\nLegislative acts (fully, acts of statute), or more commonly statutes, are the cornerstone of statutory and regulatory law. They may include in a monarchical system any royal edict, proclamation, or decree setting forth or establishing law as it affects all citizens. In parliamentary or congressional systems, acts passed by a legislature are known as acts of Parliament or acts of Congress.\n\nA notarial act (or notarial instrument or notarial writing) is any written narration of facts (recitals) drawn up by a notary public or civil-law notary authenticated by his signature and official seal and detailing a procedure which has been transacted by or before him in his official capacity. A notarial act is the only lawful means of proving those facts of which it is the recognized record, whereas on other matters it is usually inadmissible, because, being beyond the powers entrusted to the notary by law, it is non-official. In most common-law countries, multiple-page acts are bound together using a sewn or knotted ribbon (referred to as silk), the ends of which are secured by a wafer impressed with the notary's seal. This is called annexing or annexure.\n\nThe first category is known as an \"act in public form\" (Fr \"acte en minute\", Du \"minuutakte\", It \"atto conservato\", Ger \"urschriftliche Urkunde\", Sp \"acta protocolar\"), and is the preserve of notaries-at-law. Public form acts may take the form of a record of some activity which is intended or required to have evidentiary status, legal or administrative force or effect, or commercial effect. Acts in this form remain the cornerstone of civil-law notarial practice according to which they are composed as single narrative instruments written in the first person perspective of the notary. Public-form acts include all contracts and governing instruments (e.g. conveyance, will, trust, power of attorney, gift).\n\nThe components of an act in public form are:\n\nTraditionally, in civil-law countries, the preliminary drafts, called \"minutes\" (formerly \"protocols\"; Fr \"minute\", Du \"minuut\", It \"minuta\", Ger \"Urschrift\", Sp \"escritura matriz\"), are jotted in legal shorthand and record only the particulars. Their date, appearer, venue, and subject are logged in a notarial register, and the minutes are retained and kept in the notary's protocol (archive) while an engrossment (Fr/Du \"grosse\", It \"spedizione in forma esecutiva\", Ger \"Ausfertigung\", Sp \"primer testimonio\"), a fully extended form in long hand under seal and signature, is handed to the appearer. The minutes are used thereafter as a master copy from which exemplifications (Fr \"expédition\", It \"spedizione\", Sp \"testimonio ulterio\", \"copia simple\", Du \"authentiek afschrift\", \"uitgifte\", Ger \"beglaubigte Abschrift\"), i.e. engrossed fair copies, may be made. In common-law countries, notaries prepare multiple duplicate originals fully executed and sealed, as a copy would not be admissible in court. One is archived as a file copy in the notary's protocol.\n\nThe second category is known as an \"act in private form\" (Fr \"acte en brevet\", Du \"brevetakte\", \"akte in originali\", It \"atto rilasciato in originale\", Ger \"Urkunde im Original\", Sp \"acta extraprotocolar\"), best represented by the notarial certificate (or \"docquet\" in Scotland). This is generally a writing that certifies the due execution in the notary's presence of a deed, contract or other writing or verifies some fact or thing of which the notary has certain knowledge. Notarial certificates are endorsed on or appended to a pre-existing document and attest to its due execution, genuine nature and validity, or legal status and effects. As a safety precaution, the certificate may also contain information such as the number of pages, a description of the document, its title, and any other distinguishing features in order to prevent pages from being added or removed. If affixed, short form certificates may also be embossed with a seal half on the certificate and half on the rest of the page.\n\nNotarial certificates come in full forms or short forms. A full form includes preamble information like the date, venue, appearer's appearance, proof of identification, and so forth, as well as the principal attestation. A short form usually only includes the venue, date, and \"attestation clause\". Both are then ended with a \"testimonium clause\".\n\nTypical parts are:\n\n"}
{"id": "627615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=627615", "title": "Adat", "text": "Adat\n\nAdat (Jawi: عادت) is the generic term derived from Arabic language for describing a variety of local customary practices and tradition as observed by Muslim communities in North Caucasus, Central Asia and Southeast Asia. Despite its Arabic origin, the term adat resonates deeply throughout the Maritime Southeast Asia, where due to colonial influence, its usage has been systematically institutionalised into various non-Muslim communities. Within the region, the term refers, in a broader sense, to the customary norms, rules, interdictions, and injunctions that guide individual's conduct as a member of the community and the sanctions and forms of address by which these norms and rules, are upheld. Adat also include the set of local and traditional laws and dispute resolution systems by which society was regulated.\n\nThe word adat is derived from the Arabic word \"ʿādā́t\" (عادات), the plural form of \"ʿā́da\" (عادَة), meaning custom, or habit and is considered as synonymous with \"urf\" (عرف), something which is commonly known or accepted. It generally refers to the result of long-standing convention, either deliberately adopted or the result of unconscious adaptation to circumstances, that has been followed where practical considerations have been uppermost.\n\nPrior to the arrival of Islam, the peoples of North Caucasus and Central Asia had long-established codes of legal and civil law, which in the Islamic period came to be known by the term adat. Adat in traditional central asian societies are guided by authoritative members of communities, usually councils of Aqsaqals. It is based on a tribal code of conduct and on centuries of experience in conflict resolution between individuals, communities, and tribes. In North Caucasus, the traditional value codex of adat held that the Teip ('clan') was the chief reference for loyalty, honor, shame and collective responsibility. The Russian empire's colonial administration did not interfere with local legal practices and delegated the administration at the local community level to the councils of aqsaqals and teips. So did the Bolsheviks during the first years of the revolution of 1917. The adat was practiced among the central asians and north caucasians up until the early 1930s, before Soviet authorities banned its use and replaced it with the civil law.\n\nIn Southeast Asia, the concept of adat and its meanings were first formulated in the Islamised Malay-speaking world, apparently to distinguish non-Islamic from Islamic practices. In the 15th century, the Melaka empire developed a code of international shipping law, \"Undang-Undang Laut Melaka\", and a civil and commercial code, \"Undang-Undang Melaka\", which was heavily Islamic but with extensive adat influences. These codes would later spread across the region and became the legal source for local jurisprudence in major regional sultanates like Brunei, Johor, Pattani and Aceh.\n\nIn the early decades of the twentieth century, in the Dutch East Indies, the study of adat emerged as a specialised field of inquiry. Although associated with the needs of colonial administration, this study nevertheless gave rise to an active scholarly discipline that dealt with differing systems of adat comparatively. Among notable scholars in this study were, Van Vollenhoven, Ter Haar and Snouck Hurgronje. Several key concepts that are still being used today within the customary law research in modern Indonesia are; \"adatrecht\" ('adat law'), \"adatrechtskringen\" ('adat law circles'), \"beschikkingsrecht\" (communal rights over land or 'right to avail') and \"adatrechtsgemenschapeen\" ('adat law communities'). The adat law or adatrecht has been used by colonial government as a legal term designating a prescriptive right, which was given currency as an independent legal entity apart from the canon law. Local indigenous laws and customs of all ethnic groups, including those of non-Muslims, began to be collectively termed as \"adat\", and were encoded into units of jural management, whereby legal pluralism in East Indies was introduced. Under this scheme, based on a classification of adat systems as cultural geographic units, the Dutch divided the East Indies into at least 19 adat law areas.\n\nAdat is still enforced in the courts of Brunei, Malaysia and Indonesia as personal law in certain aspects. In Malaysia, each state's constitution empowered Malay Rulers as the head of Islam and Malay customs in their respective state. State councils known as \"Majlis Agama Islam dan Adat Istiadat Melayu\" (Council of Islam and Malay Customs) are responsible in advising the rulers as well as regulating both Islamic affairs and adat. Legal proceedings on matters related to Islamic affairs and adat (such as \"harta sepencarian\" or 'matrimonial property' cases) are carried out in Syariah Court. In Sarawak and Sabah, native adat laws of non-Malay indigenous communities were institutionalised through the establishment of courts known as \"Mahkamah Bumiputera\" ('Bumiputra courts') and \"Mahkamah Anak Negeri\" ('native courts') respectively. A parallel system exist in the Peninsular Malaysia for ethnic Malays, called \"Mahkamah Penghulu\" (Penghulu's courts-Mukim headman courts) but with very limited jurisdiction. In Indonesia, \"adat\" rules are still of legal relevance in some areas, especially in most Hindu villages in Bali, the Tenger area and in the region of Yogyakarta and Surakarta.\n\nFollowing the dissolution of the Soviet Union, adat practices in Central Asia began to resurrect in the 1990s among communities in rural areas. This was largely due to a decay of legal and law enforcement institutions in many parts of the region. The constitution also contributed to this process, since it empowered some traditional institutions such as councils of elders (aqsaqals), with some administrative authorities. In North Caucasus, traditional, clan-based systems of self-government, which had been functioning underground since the 1950s, began to reappear in response to the federal government's neglect and the local administration's impotence. Because of loss of Islamic scholars and literature during the Stalinist years, the adat that emerged contained almost no elements of Islamic law. However, there are growing number of participation of Muslim scholars in adat proceedings, who are now involved in most important decisions in village assemblies and district administrations.\n\nIn the Malay States of Southeast Asia, the Malay community may be classified formally and historically into two different groups: one following \"Adat Temenggung\" and the other, \"Adat perpatih\".\n\n\"Adat Temenggung\" (customs or rules of Temenggung) is the most common form of adat which is patrilineal and more pervasive, and it can be found in majority of Malay states. \"Adat perpatih\" confined almost exclusively to Negeri Sembilan where dwell the descendants of the Minangkabau immigrants from West Sumatra, is associated with a matrilineal rule of descent and a political structure based upon the kinship system.\n\nThough both adat originated from tribal organizations in the past, it is in Adat Perpatih that the remnants of tribal structure are clearly evident at present. To cite one instance, marriage between two persons belonging to the same clan is regarded as incestuous and is strictly prohibited.\n\nThe major concern with adat, both Temenggung and Perpatih in the research and literature, has been with so-called adat law, or the definition of rights to property, rank and other privileges in traditional Malay society. Studies of adat law have chiefly been preoccupied with the questions of its relationship to Islamic law (Sharia law) and the legal cases to which such conflicts have given rise. In Malay culture, there are at least five different perspectives of adat:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32903662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32903662", "title": "Administrative courts in Mongolia", "text": "Administrative courts in Mongolia\n\nAdministrative courts in Mongolia. The 1992 Constitution of Mongolia says: \"The judicial system shall consist of the Supreme Court, Aimag (provincial) and capital city courts, Sum (county), inter-sum and district courts in Mongolia. Specialized courts such as criminal, civil and administrative courts may be formed. The activities and decisions of the specialized courts shall not but be under the supervision of the Supreme Court\". This is the origin of the administrative courts, the first ever and only specialized courts in Mongolia. On December 26, 2002 the State Great Khural passed the Law on establishment of administrative court along with the Law on procedure for administrative cases in accordance with Article 48 (1) of the Constitution. It took almost ten years to convince the State Great Khural to pass this law with enormous work of lawyers and scholars, and the support of international organizations. \nThe law of Mongolia on procedure for administrative cases entered into force on June 1, 2004. It is divided into two sections: first – procedure for administrative tribunal(s) and higher administrative officials to pre-decide the original act based on the complaint submitted by citizen or legal entity, second – procedure for administrative courts.\n\nThe only target of this court procedure is “administrative act or action” and its validity and legitimacy. Article 3.1.4 of the Law of Mongolia on procedure for administrative cases provides the following definition. An administrative act is a single compelling order or commanding action [which causing direct legal result] that issued or acted by an administrative authority, official in oral or written form, in order to regulate the particular incident caused in public legal framework. Hence, the most common types of acts that likely to be in issue in administrative cases would be, but not limited to, all kinds of government licensing, tax order, land related regulation and government procurement.\n\nThe Supreme Court has three chambers: civil, criminal, administrative, and consists of 17 justices. The court hears the civil and criminal cases with a panel of five justices. The general court system consists of the Supreme Court - last resort, aimag and capital city courts – appellate, Sum, inter-sum and district courts – trial. \n\nFor the following two reasons, the State Great Khural decided that the administrative courts should be organized differently from the ordinary court system. The reasons are first – financial (shortage of funding to establish three levels of administrative courts) and second – not enough cases to employ the courts in sums and districts. Thus, every Aimag and capital city (but not sum and district) has its administrative court and it is a trial court with jurisdiction over cases arising out of its own public administration or official action.\n\nThe Administrative Chamber of the Supreme Court had responsibility, until recently, not only as a last instance court but also as an intermediate appellate court. The intermediate appellate panel decides the case with a panel of three justices and is not limited to considering the issues stated in appeal but must review the whole case. As a last instance court, the Administrative Chamber hears the case with a panel of five justices. Moreover, if the case has been heard by the Chamber prior to this latter hearing, the justices who took part in the first hearing must recuse themselves. Administrative courts began operating on June 1, 2004.\nSince 2004, administrative courts in Mongolia have been operating without an intermediate appellate court. Up to date, there were 21 provincial administrative courts existing as first instance courts and their decisions were appealed directly to the Administrative Chamber of the Supreme Court, which acted as both intermediate appellate court and court of last resort for administrative cases.\n\nSeven years after Mongolia established its first specialized court for administrative cases, the country decided to complete its court system for disputes in administrative law by establishing the intermediate appellate court. On April 1, 2011, the Administrative Court of Appeals began operating in Ulaanbaatar city, deciding cases which appealed judgment of 21 provincial administrative courts and the Capital city administrative court.\n"}
{"id": "17181164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17181164", "title": "American Journal of International Law", "text": "American Journal of International Law\n\nThe American Journal of International Law is an English-language scholarly journal focusing on international law and international relations. It is published quarterly since 1907 by the American Society of International Law (ASIL), and is available to subscribing members online via publishing partner JSTOR.\n\nThe \"Journal\" contains summaries and analyses of decisions by national and international courts and arbitral or other tribunals, and of contemporary U.S. practice in international law. Each issue lists recent publications in English and other languages, many of which are reviewed in depth. Earlier issues of the journal contain full-text primary materials of importance in the field of international law.\n\nThe Society's history and contributions to international law are chronicled in Frederic L. Kirgis, \"The American Society of International Law's First Century: 1906-2006 \"\" (Brill, 2006).\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2014 impact factor of 1.667, ranking it 14th out of 85 journals in the category \"International Relations\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4174952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4174952", "title": "Bequest motive", "text": "Bequest motive\n\nA bequest motive seeks to provide an economic justification for the phenomenon of intergenerational transfers of wealth. In other words, to explain why people leave money behind when they die.\n\n\nWhich bequest motive theory most realistically represents the intentions of estate planners is unclear. Attempts to test the theories empirically are mired by poor availability of data about wealth holdings.\n\n\nBernheim, B.D.; Shleifer, A.; Summers L.H. (1985) “The Strategic Bequest Motive” in \"Journal of Political Economy\", Vol 93, No. 6, 1045-1076\n\nMasson, A. and Pestieau P. (1997) “Bequest Motives and Models of Inheritance: A Survey of the Literature” in (Erreygers and Vandevelde eds.) \"Is Inheritance Legitimate? Ethical and Economic Aspects of Wealth Transfers\" Springer, Berlin\n"}
{"id": "28165042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28165042", "title": "Bropho v Western Australia", "text": "Bropho v Western Australia\n\nBropho v Western Australia was a decision of the High Court of Australia, which ruled on 20 June 1990 that Section 17 of the \"Aboriginal Heritage Act 1972\" of Western Australia bound the Crown in right of Western Australia.\n\nSection 17 of the \"Aboriginal Heritage Act 1972\" of Western Australia prohibited the destruction or damage of aboriginal sites except with the consent of the responsible State Minister. The Act did not expressly say whether it bound the Crown, although the Act provided that it applied to \"all places\" in Western Australia.\n\nThe Western Australian Development Corporation, a statutory corporation of the Western Australian government, undertook works to redevelop the prominent Swan Brewery site in Perth. The site was owned by the State of Western Australia. Robert Bropho, an Indigenous Australian activist, applied to the Supreme Court of Western Australia for an injunction against the development, claiming it was sacred Aboriginal land. Although Section 17 of the \"Aboriginal Heritage Act 1972\" established a criminal offence, Bropho sought the civil remedy of an injunction. The Supreme Court refused to grant an injunction, holding that the \"Aboriginal Heritage Act 1972\" did not bind the Crown in right of Western Australia. An appeal to the full bench of the Supreme Court failed, following which Bropho instituted a further appeal to the High Court of Australia.\n\nBefore \"Bropho\", the law of Crown immunity in Australia was governed by \"Province of Bombay v Municipal Council of Bombay\", a 1946 judgment of the Privy Council of the United Kingdom. The Privy Council held that there was a presumption that a statute did not bind the Crown. The presumption was only rebuttable by express words or \"necessarily implication\". The Privy Council narrowed the necessary implication ground to circumstances where the purpose of the statute would be \"wholly frustrated\" if the statute did not bind the Crown.\n\nThe High Court unanimously upheld Bropho's appeal, holding that Section 17 of the \"Aboriginal Heritage Act 1972\" bound the Crown in right of Western Australia. Chief Justice Mason and Justices Deane, Dawson, Toohey, Gaudron and McHugh delivered a joint judgment. Justice Brennan delivered his own judgment that concurred with the joint judgment.\n\nThe joint judgment affirmed the presumption against a statute binding the Crown. However, the judgment overturned the \"Bombay\" requirement that the presumption could only be rebutted by express words or necessary implication, criticising it as an \"inflexible rule\". According to the joint judgment, the relevant question was whether Parliament intended for the statute to bind the Crown. The intention of Parliament could be ascertained by reference to the content and objectives of the statute.\n\nJustice Brennan concurred with the joint judgment, noting his view that employees and agents of the Crown should not be exempt from criminal laws.\n\nBropho's successful appeal did not prevent the redevelopment of the Swan Brewery. Later in 1990, Minister Carmen Lawrence gave her consent to the redevelopment, overriding the prohibition in Section 17 of the \"Aboriginal Heritage Act 1972\". Bropho successfully challenged Lawrence's decision in the Supreme Court of Western Australia, but the Western Australian government won on appeal to the Court of Appeal.\n\n"}
{"id": "7950247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7950247", "title": "CT Corporation", "text": "CT Corporation\n\nCT, or the Corporation Trust Company, is a wholly owned subsidiary of Wolters Kluwer, a multi-national information services company based in the Netherlands with operations in over 35 countries. CT Corporation is the largest registered agent service firm in the world representing hundreds of thousands of business entities worldwide. It provides software and services that legal professionals use.\n\nThe company now known as CT Corporation has been in the registered agent business since its founding in New Jersey in 1892 with only 44 employees. The original charter of the company was handwritten and stated that its purpose was \"to carry on a general agency business, especially the acting as agent of and trustee for corporations\".\n\nIn 1895, what was then the Corporation Trust Company began assisting lawyers with the details of incorporating and qualifying corporations in all states and territories. They opened their first office in New York City in 1899. In 1955, they exceeded 75,000 units of statutory representation (including domestic and foreign units).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6057947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6057947", "title": "Chicago Alternative Policing Strategy", "text": "Chicago Alternative Policing Strategy\n\nChicago Alternative Policing Strategy (CAPS) is a community driven policing strategy designed for the Chicago Police Department that aims to bridge the gap between the police force and the citizens of Chicago. CAPS started in 1993 as a pilot program in five of the 25 police districts in Chicago - Englewood, Marquette, Austin, Morgan Park and Rogers Park - after a realization that the community and police were becoming increasingly isolated from one another throughout Chicago since the early 1960s. The original five districts, characterized by high crime rates and cases of extreme poverty, provided the Chicago Police Department with an initial benchmark from which to determine the program's strengths and weaknesses. By 1995, the Chicago Police Department implemented CAPS across all Chicago neighborhoods with the goal of blending traditional policing strategies with alternative strategies aimed at encouraging community members and police to work together in order to prevent and control crime. The program's motto, \"Together We Can,\" emphasizes the need for increased lines of communication between the community and the police, so that together they could come up with solutions for chronic neighborhood problems.\n\nThe CAPS Implementation Office was created and staffed by civilian community outreach workers who organized court advocacy programs and coordinated city services in support of CAPS related programs. The implementation includes five strategies: problem-solving, turf orientation, community involvement, linkage to city services, and new tools for police. Other features of the implementation strategy include support from other government agencies, enhanced training, computerized crime analysis, updated marketing and communications techniques, stricter and more quantitative evaluation metrics, and long-term strategic planning.\n\nThe problem-solving initiative requires officers to develop proactive policing strategies beyond responding to calls, such as identifying the concentration of crime in certain areas and entering those communities to diffuse and prevent future crime. Between 1995 and 1997, most of the police force in Chicago in addition to 10,000 civilians received training to aid their ability to recognize hotbeds of crime and understand how such areas come to be in an effort to prevent more from arising.\n\nTraining involved recognizing a problem as a persistent issue affecting a significant portion of the population in the area and following a five-step plan: Identify the issues in the community and decide an order of addressing each, Analyze available information on the issue at hand, Design out of the box solutions with preventative stress, Implement the solutions while coordinating with the respective city offices as well as the community and Evaluate effectiveness. This problem-solving method was supplemented in Chicago by re-design within the Chicago police department, such as a complete restructuring of the 911 system and a more teamwork friendly hierarchy.\n\nTurf Orientation is a strategy used to familiarize officers with certain communities within the city. Chicago was split into 279 beats, or districts, with roughly 8–10 officers assigned to each beat. The Turf Orientation implementation proved difficult, as it required officers to stay in a certain area to build trust within a community over an extended period of time, leaving fewer officers available to respond to the high volume of 911 calls. This forced the city to hire more officers, ensuring that the force was not short-staffed, and that trust between the officers and communities was not completely severed.\n\nThis technique was deemed moderately successful in a 2002 report. Increased rapid response teams unattached to a specific beat combined with improved methods of communication and technology allowed for a more efficient strategy. As of 2002, this method led to officers staying within their beat for around 66% of their calls, near the 70% goal. Beats that were closest to the goal tended to be more high-activity areas although, in those same areas, officers found it difficult to keep up with all activity. Just 30% reported having enough time for preventative efforts with the community.\n\nCommunity involvement allowed the police force to be more responsive to the needs and requests of the public, which not only aims to help alleviate crime but also to solidify relationships between communities and officers. Individuals became involved by attending local beat meetings. Chicago Police Department lists when and where all beat meetings take place on their website. Meetings generally take place monthly at a regular time and are generally held in a community area, such as a church, park or school. A CAPS facilitator runs the meetings, running the meeting according to an agenda and calling on community members to ask questions. The police are active members and play a major role in all discussions.\n\nAnother major component of meetings is the special role played by a small group of dedicated beat meeting activists. These activists come to meetings frequently in their beats, driving up attendance and CAPS related activism. CAPS related activism includes marches, rallies, prayer vigils, and smoke-outs (group barbecue at gang or drug-infested sites). Community members who attend the meeting have the chance to ask questions and voice concerns about crime-related problems in their neighborhood, hear reports by the police on crime activity in their beat, and meet neighbors who are also concerned about the safety of their community. Attendance is generally higher where it is needed. The beat meetings where attendance is the highest are usually areas with bad housing, high levels of crime, and poor schools. Citizen awareness of CAPS has increased over time, but several studies have found that awareness is highest among African American residents of Chicago.\n\nIn 2000, the United States Department of Justice found that beat meeting attendance rose steadily with levels of civic engagement, rising to more than 40% among residents involved in at least three kinds of local organizations. Church involvement showed a high correlation with CAPS involvement as well; one explanation proposed for this is many CAPS meetings are held in churches, especially in African American communities where both CAPS and church involvement are particularly strong.\n\nLinkage to city services allowed the police force to communicate and coordinate with other city agencies to streamline responsiveness. For instance, an interagency database was created to provide access to all city employees regarding crime areas, high-profile criminals, and even police activity. Additionally, the police coordinated with other city agencies regarding graffiti removal and abandoned car removal, as residents expressed those two issues as major frustrations within their communities.\n\nNew tools for police introduced a handful of new strategies for curbing crime in Chicago. New crime-mapping software was developed to encourage the routine distribution of crime-related data to both the public and those who regularly attended beat meetings. Specific task forces were created to enforce anti-gang and anti-drug house ordinances throughout the city. The Chicago Police Department collaborated with building, health, and fire inspectors to ensure that any identified drug houses were kept under control and within the city building codes. Additionally, local prosecutors and county attorneys placed a greater emphasis on cooperation with the CAPS in order to prevent reoccurring offenses.\n\nChicago is divided into 25 police districts and further divided into 279 police beats. Beats are small geographic areas to which police officers are assigned. Rather than changing beat officers daily, CAPS assigns the same officers to a particular beat for at least one year in order to encourage partnerships and problem-solving at the beat level, and to allow officers to develop relationships within the neighborhoods in which they work. The Office of Emergency Management and Communication (OEMC) dispatchers use a call priority matrix, often assigning the \"nearest police unit\" to respond to calls. This strategy, coupled with attrition shorts from under-staffing the police department, may result in officers spending most of their day off the beat.\n\nThe Chicago Police Department solved this dilemma by creating teams of rapid response officers in each of Chicago's 25 Police Districts.These rapid response officers still use the traditional methods for emergencies and rapid response, and are able to take most of the emergency calls in their sectors, which are groupings of three to five beats. Aside from responding to emergency calls, the rapid response officers were put in place to not only provide backup to beat officers who may be assisting the community elsewhere, but to help each beat officer maintain a solid presence in his or her respective beats. Each month, community beat meetings are held in all of Chicago's 279 beats, without the participation of any off-duty (not working) police personnel. Individual residents meet with their beat officers and other police personnel to discuss neighborhood problems and hopefully develop strategies to address them. Beyond the community, CAPS heavily relies on city agencies and services to prevent crime. The City of Chicago has set up cooperative efforts with the Mayor's Liquor License Commission, the Department of Streets and Sanitation, the Department of Buildings, and other agencies to ensure the police have support from the city to handle smaller issues, such as abandoned buildings and graffiti, before they lead to more serious crimes. CAPS has no underlying criminology theory as its basis, and no rigorous academic studies have shown CAPS as an entirely effective or efficient anti-crime tool.\n\nIn addition to the monthly beat meetings, there are also District Advisory Committees (DAC), which meet regularly with the District Commander to discuss district affairs. The members of the DAC are generally community leaders, business owners or local community activists. The goal of the DAC is to discuss district priorities and develop district-wide strategies with community resources. A 2004 Northwestern University report, \"Caps at Ten\", claimed that many members were frustrated with their ill-defined mandates, leadership problems, and inaction. Many DAC members argued that CAPS had taken the shape of a more bureaucratic organization, instead of an overall guide for the policies of the Police Department. Community members and researchers have isolated a handful of problems with DACs that have caused them to become ineffective and untrustworthy: lack of a clear mission, weak subcommittees, lack of independence from the police force, and members who are generally out of touch with the community and demographically unrepresentative of the community they represent.\n\nFrom 1991-2002, overall violent crime in Chicago dropped 49%. City officials reported that, as of 2002, both violent crime and property crime dropped in each of the 25 police districts. However, most reports find it difficult to conclude that CAPS is the leading variable responsible for the overall drop in crime. In certain beats, citizens actually experienced increases in crime rates, proving that that strategy was not entirely successful, according to a Northwestern University study. Policing strategies often get little to no rigorous evaluation or assessment, leading to a lack of data and evidence regarding the efficacy of the program.\n\nSeveral community groups have been vocal supporters of CAPS. In the Prairie district (Beat 2111), the beat facilitator explained he was able to communicate with police mugging and theft hotspots in order to help reduce those crimes. As a result of his involvement in CAPS and partnership with the CPD, he noted those types of crimes have decreased significantly. Additionally, in the Gresham district, Pastors United for Change said that the partnership with their district's beat officers resulted in the shutting down of a motel that was a known drug spot and the closure of a liquor store that sold alcohol to minors.\n\nOne study noted two important difficulties while implementing the community problem-solving strategies of CAPS. First, better results were found in \"high-capacity\" beats where citizens' economic and social statuses were much more secure and the population usually had more in common with the police population. These same neighborhoods tended to have a more positive perspective of the police after the program. In comparison, what were deemed \"low-capacity\" areas held a more diverse population with little interest in the community as much of the people were renters who lived there for under 5 years. The areas tended to have high concentration of crime and leadership was much less likely to implement problem-solving and community techniques leading to complete failure. Second, racial divisions in some of the more stable communities where the program looked to be promising led to lack of coordination. Beat officers had a difficult time mediating while sticking to the regulatory style their position requires.\n\nThough the Chicago Police Department's budget increased since Rahm Emanuel took office as Mayor, the portion of the budget allotted for CAPS has decreased to roughly a third of its original funding level. Due to budget cuts and other resource shortages, fewer beat meetings have been held and fewer beat officers have been placed in various communities.\n\nIn January 2013, Mayor Rahm Emanuel and former Police chief Garry McCarthy pledged to revitalize the CAPS program. The central office was dismantled and resources were shifted to each of the 25 Police districts. \"Under the new initiative, each police district will be assigned a CAPS sergeant and two police officers, as well as a community organizer and a youth services provider. Four citywide coordinators will oversee community policing programs targeted at victim assistance, seniors, youth, and victims of domestic violence.\"\n\nIn July 2013, Chief McCarthy unveiled a prototype for three districts that would facilitate the use of the Twitter micro-blogging service to share information, text-messaging camera-equipped smartphones to alert and assist at the moment of response. A more user-friendly website, ChicagoPolice.org, was also unveiled. These tools allowed residents to text anonymous crime tips to police, including pictures and descriptions of crime scenes. Though these efforts have been responses to public criticisms, Jesse Jackson spoke out against the measures, arguing that these technological improvements do not resolve the reasons that people commit crimes in the first place. Police also began working toward allowing community members to take part in beat meetings from their homes by using Skype and similar services, without having to transport themselves to the physical meeting location. Additionally, the Chicago Police Force reinstated the ridealong program to allow community members to shadow beat officers and also created another name for CAPS - the Community Relations Strategy.\n\nOne comprehensive study found that residents in CAPS neighborhoods were 61% more likely to be satisfied with efforts of the police to reduce and prevent crime when compared to neighborhoods without CAPS. However, the study also found that residents in CAPS neighborhoods were only \"marginally\" more satisfied with police keeping order when compared to neighborhoods without CAPS. An assessment conducted ten years after implementation of CAPS found that between 1993 and 2000, public perceptions of police effectiveness increased steadily until eventually leveling off in 2000. This demonstrates that the public's confidence in police increased initially as a result of the program. The study notes that this confidence is not specific to particular demographic groups, and is instead a general increase in confidence across all racial and ethnic groups. The report also finds that after 1998, residents became less satisfied with the responsiveness and effectiveness of CAPS, which could possibly be credited to the Chicago Police Department's inability to keep enough beat officers staffed in their respective beats. Though the public trusts the intent and demeanor of police, with 90% of respondents saying they found the police concerned about their problems, only 57% of those same respondents found the police to be responsive to their concerns. One long-time Chicago resident in particular, who regularly attended beat meetings for over three years, stated that the police was doing a very poor job of carrying out the CAPS, and that many times she found police response and action to be almost non-existent. After providing the police with numerous tips and detailed information regarding drug houses, she claims that nothing was ever done to remedy these issues within her community.\n\nPublic perception of the Chicago Police Department as a whole is different depending on the race of the respondent and independently affects the efficacy of policing strategy, according to numerous studies. Among African-American and Latino respondents, less than a majority of respondents articulated a positive view of CAPS as a whole. Four out of the five Chicago Police districts throughout which the program was initially tested in 1993 are characterized by a majority African-American population and high crime rates, backing the claim that little was done within these communities to curb illegal activities. Another report conducted by Northwestern University found that, after ten years of CAPS' implementation, both white and African-American residents felt a decreased fear of crime in their area. This gap between the perceptions of effectiveness among whites and minority groups was found to be the same ten years after CAPS implementation as it was before the strategy was implemented in 1993, illustrating that the CAPS did not effectively bridge the gap between the police and the community as a whole. Possible explanations for this gap include the Chicago Police department's inability to effectively connect with the community members in each individual beat, and the overall ineffectiveness of the CAPS in areas where community members are less involved.\n\nFuture OperationsScholars generally agree that CAPS faces three main obstacles for future operations and implementation. The first and most intuitive is financing and resource allotment. Given that funding is limited, the police force has been forced to try to accomplish more crime prevention with less funding. If the trend of resource allocation continues to decrease, it complicates the prospects for effective operations in the future. Second, immigration patterns have the ability to muddle operations and implementation. The Latino/a and Asian populations are the two demographic groups who are expanding the most in Chicago, meaning that members of those communities must take leadership within their communities to ensure representativeness. If the gap between these immigrants and the police is not closed, the Chicago Police department may experience similar issues to those found in the majority African American beats, such as a lack of community involvement, and a lack of police response. Cultural and language barriers also pose potential problems for smooth operations, gauge barriers also pose potential problems for smooth operations, and must be considered before moving forward. Lastly, sustaining efforts for implementation has been a large factor contributing to ineffectiveness in the past and will continue to hinder success if not addressed.\n\nWhile the CAPS section of the Chicago Police Department website still remains, news about CAPS and its effects after 2013 remain scarce. The CAPS page itself discusses beat meetings and community policing but CPD focus has shifted from the program to a general community-based policing strategy.\n\nOn January 13, 2017, the US Justice Department released a report that reprimanded the CPD's police officers. An agreement was arranged with the city that is court-enforced to make several reforms. As a result, thedepartment released its full framework for reform in a booklet on March 14, 2017 entitled \"Next Steps for Reform\". It details information on the new Community Policing Advisory Panel (CPAP), chaired by Chief of Patrol Fred Waller, which will spearhead the further revitalization of the community policing strategy. This will work in conjunction with improved training, increased supervision, edited policy (specifically on the subject of the use of force) and increased transparency/accountability.CPD has already made some changes in its crime fighting technique, using data to isolate which neighborhoods shootings are more likely to occur.\n\nThe panel, as stated in the booklet, is staffed by CPD employees, those with authority on community policing and leaders within the community. This panel's immediate goal was to draft a report to assist in the department's reform by the end of March. In order to do so, it opened an online source for residents to send information through will hold three separate town hall meetings during the month of April.\n\n"}
{"id": "24511576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24511576", "title": "Compromis", "text": "Compromis\n\nIn international law and diplomacy, a compromis (French for \"special agreement\") is an agreement between two parties to submit a dispute to international arbitration for a binding resolution. A \"compromis\" is made after a dispute has already arisen, rather than before. (This is in contrast to provisions in existing treaties or protocols made before the dispute arose). The \"compromis\" identifies a neutral third party - the arbitrator or arbitral tribunal - or specifies the manner of appointment. The compromis often sets forth the precise question or questions to be decided; the arbitral rules of procedure; the seat of the tribunal; the languages to be used in the proceeding; the applicable law; and the payment of costs.\n\nA \"compromis\" to submit a dispute to arbitration can be made \"ad hoc\" by two or more states, or it can be on the basis of a reciprocol declaration made under the Statute of the International Court of Justice. Article 36(2) of the Statute of the ICJ provides that: \"The states parties to the present Statute may at any time declare that they recognize as compulsory ipso facto and without special agreement, in relation to any other state accepting the same obligation, the jurisdiction of the Court in all legal disputes concerning: a. the interpretation of a treaty; b. any question of international law; c. the existence of any fact which, if established, would constitute a breach of an international obligation; d. the nature or extent of the reparation to be made for the breach of an international obligation.\" Article 36(3) provides that: \"The declarations referred to above may be made unconditionally or on condition of reciprocity on the part of several or certain states, or for a certain time.\"\n\n\"Compromis\" have been used for many years. Treaties reported by Jean Dumont, a compiler of early treaties, show among many others a 1176/77 dispute between Castile and Navarra over certain territories and castles in Spain was submitted to King Henry II of England for resolution; an 1177 compromis and 1180 compromis between Henry II of England and Philip II of France submitted a dispute concerning Auvergne and other territories to arbitration by three bishops and barons on either side; and a June 1298 compromis submitted to Pope Boniface VIII a dispute between Edward I of England and Philip IV of France over English fiefs in France.\n\nAn example of a modern \"compromis\" is the 1996 Special Agreement between Botswana and Namibia, which referred the two countries' dispute over Sedudu (Kasikili) island to the ICJ for resolution. The ICJ decided the \"Case concerning Kasikili/Sedudu Island\" (Botswana/Namibia) in 1999, ruling for Botswana.\n\nA \"compromis\" may also be used to submit international investment or trade disputes to arbitration.\n"}
{"id": "7579943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7579943", "title": "Cornell Law Review", "text": "Cornell Law Review\n\nThe Cornell Law Review is the flagship legal journal of Cornell Law School. Originally published in 1915 as the \"Cornell Law Quarterly\", the journal features scholarship in all fields of law. Notably, past issues of the \"Cornell Law Review\" have included articles by Supreme Court justices Robert H. Jackson, John Marshall Harlan II, William O. Douglas, Felix Frankfurter, and Ruth Bader Ginsburg. The \"Cornell Law Review\" ranks 7th among law journals in impact and influence according to Google Scholar Metrics.\n\nCornell Law School first published a law review in June 1894—the first and only issue of the \"Cornell Law Journal\"—and again published a law review (the \"New York Law Review\") from January to July 1895. Following these initial efforts, the \"Cornell Law Review\" began its continuous publication in 1915. Until 1966, the \"Cornell Law Review\" published four issues annually and was known as the \"Cornell Law Quarterly\". Six Student Editors were joined by one Faculty Editor, a Business Manager, and an Assistant Business Manager. In the first issue of \"Cornell Law Quarterly\" in November 1915, Cornell professor (and soon-to-be dean) Edwin Hamlin Woodruff defended the launch of this new journal from critics who decried the proliferation of legal periodicals at the time (one contemporary critic counted 20 journals total, including non-scholarly periodicals).\n\nWoodruff argued that the \"Cornell Law Quarterly\" would \"justify its existence if it can reach and be helpful to...lawyers who might otherwise give their attention exclusively to the routine of practice\" and noted the \"pedagogical value...within the college itself\" for the students who worked on the journal. Woodruff wrote that the journal \"would not fail of its purpose, if it substantially enhances the spirit of mutual service between the College of Law and Cornell Lawyers; if it aides in some degree to foster any needed reform in the law, or to give help by intelligent discussion and investigation toward the solution of legal problems; and if it satisfies within the college itself among the students and faculty a desire to advance...the cause of legal education in a larger sense.\"\n\nThe first article in the first issue of the \"Cornell Law Quarterly\" was authored by Cornell University President Jacob Gould Schurman, who had recently completed his term as Vice-President of the New York State Constitutional Convention of 1915. Schurman, and other authors in that issue and later issues of the \"Cornell Law Quarterly\", chronicled the recent constitutional convention to illuminate the provisions of the state's new Constitution. The journal also realized Woodruff's vision by honing the legal skills of the student editors who served on the journal. One of the first Editors-in-Chief, Elbert Tuttle, later rose to prominence as the Chief Judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit during a time when that court was called upon to be the primary enforcer of the Supreme Court's decision in \"Brown v. Board of Education\" in the southern states in that circuit.\n\nThe journal grew steadily over the next fifty years, expanding to the point at which a staff of 34 students undertook a two-stage expansion of the journal's publishing schedule. In 1966, the \"Cornell Law Quarterly\" published six issues—Fall, Winter I, Winter II, Spring I, Spring II, and Summer. In 1967, it committed itself to a bi-monthly publishing schedule and changed its name to the \"Cornell Law Review\". Today, the \"Review\" is edited exclusively by upper class students in Cornell Law School's Juris Doctor (J.D.) program.\n\nThe \"Cornell Law Review\" publishes six issues annually.\n\nProminent alumni of the \"Cornell Law Review\" include: \n\n"}
{"id": "20086494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20086494", "title": "Curfew bell", "text": "Curfew bell\n\nThe curfew bell was a bell rung in the evening in Medieval England as the curfew signal for everyone to go to bed.\n\nA bell was rung usually around eight o'clock in the evening which meant for them to cover their fires - deaden or cover up, not necessarily put out altogether. The usual procedure was at the sound of the curfew bell the burning logs were removed from the centre of the hearth of a warming fire and the hot ashes swept to the back and sides. The cold ashes were then raked back over the fire so as to cover it. The ashes would then keep smoldering giving warmth without a live fire going. The fire could easily be reignited the next morning by merely adding logs back on and allowing air to vent through the ashes. A benefit of covering up the fire in the evening was the prevention of destructive conflagrations caused by unattended live fires, a major concern since at the time most structures were made of wood and burned easily. Voltaire, in his \"Universal History\", notes the curfew bell acted as an ancient police on fire prevention in towns of the northern hemisphere.\n\nThe curfew bell with the associated curfew law is recorded by history as having been started by Alfred the Great. The law associated with the curfew bell is a custom that history records as being adopted by William I of England in the year 1068. The curfew law imposed upon the people was a compulsory duty they had to do or be punished like a criminal. Historians, poets, and lawyers speak of the Medieval law associated with the curfew bell as being levelled mostly against the conquered Anglo-Saxons. It was initially used as a repressive measure by William I to prevent rebellious meetings of the conquered English. He prohibited the use of live fires after the curfew bell was rung to prevent associations and conspiracies. The strict practice of this medieval tradition was pretty much observed during the reign of King William I and William II of England. The law was eventually repealed by Henry I of England in 1103.\n\nA century later in England the curfew bell was associated more with a time of night rather than an enforced curfew law. The curfew bell was in later centuries rung but just associated with a tradition. In Medieval times the ringing of the curfew bell was of such importance that land was occasionally paid for the service. There are even recorded instances where the sound of the curfew bell sometimes saved the lives of lost travellers by safely guiding them back to town.\n\nIn Macaulay's \"History of Claybrook\", Claybrooke Magna, (1791), he says, \"The custom of ringing curfew, which is still kept up in Claybrook, has probably obtained without intermission since the days of the Norman Conqueror.\"\n\nIn the Articles for the Sexton of Faversham in England it was written of the curfew bell,\nThe time of the curfew bell changed in later centuries after the Middle Ages to nine in the evening and sometimes even to ten. To this day in many towns there is a \"curfew\" at nine or ten that can be heard throughout the town, which is usually the town's emergency siren - sometimes used as the town's noon whistle.\n\nThe English word \"curfew\" is from old French \"carre-feu\" or \"cerre-feu\". These initial French words later derived into \"couvre-feu\". The word was again later turned into \"cover-feu\" in the Norman language after the conquering of the English. Each of these meant to cover the live flaming fire. There was even a metal utensil cover known as the \"couvre-feu\", normally only found in houses of the well-to-do. It resembled a shield and was used to be put over the live fire when the curfew bell rang. The curfew bell was known as \"ignitegium\" or \"peritegium bell\" in the medieval low Latin. Daines Barrington shows that in an old Scottish poem published in 1770 the word curfew is written \"curphour\".\n\nThe tyranny of William I is described by the poet Francis Thompson,\nChaucer writes on the curfew bell as just as a time, not a law:\nShakespeare had unusual times for the curfew bell. In Romeo and Juliet, iv 4, he has Lord Capulet saying:\nIn Tempest, v. 1, Prospero says:\nIn the sixteenth century Bishop Joseph Hall's \"Fourth Satire\" it reads:\nIn the play \"The Merry Devil of Edmonton\" (published 1608), the curfew was at nine o'clock in the evening:\nJohn Milton's put in his allegorical \"Il Penseroso\"'s mouth the words:\nIn Handel's \"L'Allegro, il Penseroso ed il Moderato\" these words are accompanied by a pizzicato bass-line, representing a distant bell sound.\nThe most famous mention of the curfew in English poetry is in Thomas Gray's Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard (1750), whose opening lines are:\n\nT. S. Eliot \"Gus the theater cat\" (\"Old possum's book of practical cats\")\n\n"}
{"id": "40486586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40486586", "title": "Customs Convention on the Temporary Importation for Private Use of Aircraft and Pleasure Boats", "text": "Customs Convention on the Temporary Importation for Private Use of Aircraft and Pleasure Boats\n\nThe Customs Convention on the Temporary Importation for Private Use of Aircraft and Pleasure Boats is a 1956 United Nations multilateral treaty. In states that adhere to the Convention, it allows individuals that are temporarily visiting a country—such as tourists—to import an aircraft or pleasure boat to the country duty free so long as the aircraft or boat will be used exclusively for private use.\n\nThe Convention was patterned after the Customs Convention on the Temporary Importation of Private Road Vehicles and was concluded in Geneva on 18 May 1956, the same day the Customs Convention on Containers and the Customs Convention on the Temporary Importation of Commercial Road Vehicles was concluded.\n\nThe Convention entered into force on 1 January 1959. It was signed by 11 states and as of 2013 has 26 state parties.\n\nThe Convention was somewhat superseded in 1990 by the Istanbul Convention, which combines in one single instrument the various conventions on the temporary admission of specific goods.\n\n"}
{"id": "54343351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54343351", "title": "Day of Action to Save Net Neutrality", "text": "Day of Action to Save Net Neutrality\n\nThe Day of Action to Save Net Neutrality was an event on July 12, 2017, in which various organizations and individuals advocated for net neutrality in the United States. The event was a response to plans by Federal Communications Commission chairman Ajit Pai to end United States government policies which establish net neutrality. Over 50,000 websites, including many organizations, contributed activism after Fight for the Future, Demand Progress, and Free Press convened the event. The group called it \"the largest online protest in history\", a term which had previously referred to protests against Internet censorship in 2012.\n\nThe event sought to contact members of Congress and the FCC. The protest noted that Ajit V. Pai formerly worked at Verizon, a company which opposes net neutrality.\n\nNetflix CEO Reed Hastings publicly stated that net neutrality was no longer a primary concern for Netflix and that it would not participate. Netflix later reversed their position and decided to support the campaign. Prior to the Day of Action there was speculation Tumblr would not participate after Verizon acquired their parent company, Yahoo!. Tumblr would in fact be a noted participant, with their logo featured prominently on Battle for the Net's website along with other major supporters.\n\n\"Wired\" commented that the activism was a result of opposing sides of large organizations, with traditional telecom organizations as the target of protest and new media organizations as the protestors. \"Recode\" criticized companies such as Facebook and Google for holding back and posting messages that were unlikely to reach a large fraction of their users.\n\nIn response to the protest, some of the targeted ISPs stated that they supported the spirit of net neutrality but not the specific regulations passed in 2010 and 2015. Comcast called them \"outdated\" and Verizon called them \"1930s style\". Despite AT&T's opposition to net neutrality rules, a statement on the company webpage stated that it was \"joining\" the protest. AT&T's participation was rejected by the principal organizers of the event.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1169455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1169455", "title": "December 2001 riots in Argentina", "text": "December 2001 riots in Argentina\n\nThe December 2001 crisis, sometimes known as the Argentinazo (), was a period of civil unrest and rioting in Argentina, which took place during December 2001, with the most violent incidents taking place on December 19 and December 20 in the capital, Buenos Aires, Rosario and other large cities around the country. It was preceded by a popular revolt against the Argentine government, rallying behind the motto \"All of them must go!\" (), which caused the resignation of then-president Fernando de la Rúa, giving way to a period of political instability during which five government officials performed the duties of the Argentinian presidency. This period of instability occurred during the larger period of crisis known as the Argentine great depression, an economic, political, and social crisis that lasted from 1998 until 2002.\n\nThe December 2001 crisis was a direct response to the government's imposition of \"Corral\" policies () at the behest of economic minister Domingo Cavallo, which restricted people's ability to withdraw cash from banks. Rioting and protests became widespread on December 19, 2001, immediately following the president's declaration of a state of emergency and his resignation on the following day. A state of extreme institutional instability continued for the next twelve days, during which the successor president Adolfo Rodríguez Saá resigned as well. While the degree of instability subsided, the events of December 2001 would become a blow against the legitimacy of the Argentine government that would persist for the following years.\n\nThe majority of the participants in the protests were unaffiliated with any political party or organization. Over the course of the protests, 39 people were killed by police and security forces. Of the 39 killed, nine were minors, which is an indication of the degree of repression ordered by the government to oppose the protests.\n\nFernando de la Rúa, as the candidate for the Alliance for Work, Justice and Education , had assumed the role of president in December of 1999 in the middle of a recession, which was caused in part by the Convertibility plan () passed in 1991 which pegged the value of the Argentine peso to the United States dollar.\n\nWhile political reforms under the previous president Carlos Menem had succeeded in reducing inflation, the downsides of his economic policies became more and more apparent starting in 1997. Maintaining the convertibility of pesos to dollars required the government of Argentina to obtain an abundant supply of American dollars. At first, this supply was maintained by the privatization of nearly all of the Argentinian state's industries and pension funds. As the privatization process was completed, Argentina's agriculture export-based economy was unable to maintain a sufficient flow of dollars to the state, and the system began to require more and more sovereign debt.\n\nOne of the key factors leading to the victory of the \"Alliance\" in the 1999 elections was its promise to uphold the convertibility plan. One of de la Rúa's campaign slogans declared \"With me, one peso, one dollar\" (). Despite a changing international economic situation (including economic downturns in Brazil, one of Argentina's key economic partners), and mounting demands for increased monetary sovereignty, the \"Alliance\" committed itself to maintain the status quo at all costs.\n\nDe la Rúa's political situation was precarious. His arrival to power in 1999 had been possible thanks to the Alliance for Work, Justice and Education (), a coalition formed by the Radical Civic Union and the FrePaSo, which managed to defeat the incumbent Justicialist Party (the Peronist party) in that year's presidential elections. However, the Alliance (as it was known) failed to achieve a majority in the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies, and lost the provincial elections to the Peronists, who then remained in charge of large and critical districts such as the Buenos Aires, Córdoba and Santa Fe provinces.\n\nThe government coalition was strained from the first moment; the FrePaSo leaders resented being \"junior members\" of the government (being forced to that position after losing their bid to the Governorship of Buenos Aires), while the Radicals were divided between their left- and right-leaning factions (De la Rúa was a leader of the party's conservatives), especially regarding economic policy. In late 2000 a political scandal broke out when it was reported that SIDE, Argentina's intelligence service, had paid massive bribes to a number of senators to approve a controversial Labor Reform Act. The head of SIDE, Fernando de Santibañes, was a personal friend of De la Rúa. The crisis came to a head on October 2000 when Vice President Carlos Álvarez resigned, citing De la Rúa's unwillingness to tackle corruption.\n\nDe la Rúa's economic policies suffered a severe blow in March 2001 when Economy Minister José Luis Machinea resigned from office. He was briefly replaced by the then-Defense Minister Ricardo López Murphy, who himself was forced to resign following negative reception to his shock program. After only two weeks in office, López Murphy was replaced by Domingo Cavallo, who had previously served as Economy Minister between 1991 and 1996, and who was the original author of the Convertibility plan during Menem's presidency.\n\nBecause of the worsening economic situation and mounting foreign debt, the government enacted two enormous campaigns of debt-expansion and refinancing under the supervision of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), named \"The armoring\" () and \"The Megaexchange\" () respectively. From the first moment, there were allegations of corruption and money laundering about the \"megacanje\".\n\nThe crisis also caused the resignation of all the FrePaSo Cabinet ministers, leaving de la Rúa without political support. The congressional elections of October 2001 were a disaster for the government, which lost many of its seats in the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies to the Peronists. The election results marked also a growing unrest within Argentina's voters, who took to cast millions of null or blank votes. The Peronists seized the opportunity to appoint Senator Ramón Puerta to be President Pro-Tempore of the Argentine Senate, a situation which added to De la Rúa's political weakness since in the Argentine system the President Pro-Tempore of the Senate is next in line for the Presidency after the Vice President. With no Vice President of its own, Puerta's designation meant that De la Rúa had a virtual Peronist Vice President.\n\nSocial unrest was also growing. Since the late 1990s, protest movements had formed in Argentina, notably the piqueteros (\"picketeers\"), initially made up of unemployed workers. The piqueteros blockaded major roads and highways demanding government subsidies and other welfare measures. They featured prominently during the March 2001 crisis.\n\nThe crisis reached a breaking point on the 29th of November, 2001 as major investors began to withdraw their deposits from the banks, summarily causing the collapse of the Argentinian banking system due to capital flight. This was compounded by the IMF's decision to refuse to refinance Argentina's debt.\n\nAt the beginning of December 2001, the IMF cut off the flow of funds to Argentina and capital flight became uncontrollable, with 25% of all the money in Argentinian banks having been withdrawn since the beginning of 2001. On December 2nd, Finance Minister Cavallo announced a national cash-withdrawal limit of $250/week. Popular opinion was very negative, especially amongst the middle class (bearing in mind that the weekly withdrawal limit was higher than the total savings of the majority of the Argentinian population), for whom the economic crisis caused a breach of political confidence. Protests were held throughout December, although the largest and most important protests were those held on December 19th and 20th.\n\nAlthough people could still use their money via credit cards, checks and other forms of non-cash payments, the enforcement of these measures caused delays and problems for the general population and especially for businesses. Massive queues at every bank and growing reports of political crisis contributed to inflame Argentina's political scenario.\n\nDe la Rúa's position had become unsustainable, and an attempt by the Catholic Church to mediate between the government and the opposition in mid-December failed. Between December 16 and December 19 there were several incidents involving unemployed activists and protesters which demanded the handing-out of food bags from supermarkets. These incidents ended up with outright looting of supermarkets and convenience stores on December 18, taking place on Rosario and the Greater Buenos Aires areas.\n\nOn December 13th, the General Confederation of Labour and the Argentine Workers' Central Union declared their seventh general strike against the policies of de la Rúa's government. The strike had a high participation rate, including strikes in sectors that rarely participated in general strikes, such as the financial sector and un-unionized workplaces.\n\nDuring the time of the strike, there were riots in the working class neighborhoods of some cities, largely instigated by the striking \"piqueteros\". Looting occurred in various commercial districts in the country's interior and in Buenos Aires. Thousands of people participated in looting, truck-robbery, and street-blocking. From December 13th to December 19th, seven people were killed by security forces and shipowners.\n\nThroughout the day new lootings took place, and the Government believed that Peronist agitators were fueling the protests, especially in the province of Buenos Aires. This came after noting that the lootings often took place in Peronist-governed towns, and that the Buenos Aires Provincial Police (which ultimately answered to Buenos Aires Governor Carlos Ruckauf, a top Peronist) was strangely mild in restoring order. With violence mounting across Argentina's major cities, President De la Rúa began to consider alternative measures to restore order.\n\nThe first option considered was to deploy the military to contain the violence. However, Argentine legislation forbids military intervention in domestic security matters unless the police and security forces are overwhelmed, a situation quickly pointed out by the Chairman of the Joint General Staff and the Chiefs of Staff of the Army, Navy and Air Force. The military also pointed out that they would only intervene if their deployment was authorized by a law voted in Congress, something impossible given the Peronist majority in both Houses. The Argentine military was unwilling to take the blame if violence grew worse, learning from what had previously happened when President Isabel Perón issued an executive order commanding them to fight the subversive guerrilla movements of the 1970s (see Dirty War).\n\nWith military intervention no longer an option, De la Rúa resorted to declare a state of siege (essentially a state of emergency) throughout the country, deploying the Federal Police, the National Gendarmerie (border guard) and the Naval Prefecture (coast guard) to contain the growing violence.\n\nLater that night, De la Rúa addressed the nation to announce the state of siege and to call the Peronists to negotiate a \"government of national unity\". Following the broadcast, spontaneous \"cacerolazos\" (\"pot banging\") took place throughout Buenos Aires and other major cities, signaling the middle-class' own unrest. December 19 concluded with the resignation of Domingo Cavallo, who had lost whatever support he had within the government. Groups of protesters mobilized throughout Buenos Aires, some of them arriving to Plaza de Mayo, where there were incidents with the Federal Police forces.\n\nWhat had begun as rioting by unemployed and leftist-leaning groups had turned into a middle-class protest with the \"cacerolazos\", and the resignation of Cavallo did nothing to calm down the situation. The De la Rúa administration had agreed with the military to participate in an emergency handing-out of food, however, the plan failed due to lack of cooperation from the Ministry of Social Development.\n\nThroughout the morning, groups of protesters converged on Plaza de Mayo despite the state of siege. The Federal Police, acting under orders from the government, proceeded to try to control the protests. An attempt by a federal judge to halt police operations was disregarded, and the situation worsened with the arrival of new groups of protesters.\n\nAs violence expanded, President De la Rúa tried to impose censorship on all news outlets from Buenos Aires. The idea was to use the state of siege to force the television networks to stop transmitting current events and broadcast emergency programming. This plan also failed because De la Rúa's own Media Secretary refused to carry out his instructions. The state's repression was thus broadcast both within Argentina and abroad, causing further mobilizations toward the Plaza.\n\nViolent incidents between the police and protesters spread throughout the country. The most notorious ones took place at the Plaza de Mayo, where five people were killed. Some claim that the deaths were provoked by covert elements of the Buenos Aires Provincial Police in an attempt to further destabilize De la Rúa.\n\nWith his options steadily being reduced, De la Rúa went onto national television at 4 p.m. to offer the Peronists to join the government and try to bring some peace to the country. At that time, a caucus of Peronist governors was taking place at a country villa in the province of San Luis. Three hours later, Humberto Roggero, head of the Peronist bloc of the House of Deputies, announced that the Peronist Party would not be a part of a \"government of national unity\".\n\nWhen he heard the Peronists' response, De la Rúa decided to resign from office. The situation on Plaza de Mayo (right in front of the Casa Rosada, the Presidential Palace) was still too violent for De la Rúa to leave by car to his official residence at Olivos. Thus, the President's security detail decided to take him out of the Casa Rosada on board an Air Force helicopter. The images of De la Rúa's \"escape\" by helicopter were broadcast throughout the country.\nThe violence slowly abated. By the end of the day, 26 people had died, five of them in Buenos Aires. \n\nWith Álvarez having resigned a year earlier, the President Pro-Tempore of the Senate, Ramón Puerta, took over as Interim President until Congress could appoint a successor to De la Rúa.\n\nAll told, 36 people were killed by police forces during the December riots, including 7 children. The largest incidence of violence was in the Plaza de Mayo of Buenos Aires, in what would become known in Argentina as the \"Plaza de Mayo Massacre\" (), where 5 people were killed and 227 were injured. These crimes were investigated and brought to court. Seventeen people were charged with murder, attempted murder, including the then-Secretary of Security Enrique Mathov and the former head of the Argentinian Federal Police, Ruben Santos.\n\nWhile various officials and police officers have been charged and sentenced to prison, as of 2016 the majority of cases pertaining to violence during the December riots have not moved forward.\n\nAccording to the Acephaly Act, Puerta would only be President until the Legislative Assembly (a joint session of the Senate and the House of Deputies) convened and appointed a new President from either one member of Congress or a provincial governor to complete the resigning President's period.\n\nThe Peronist governors assembled at San Luis -arguably the most powerful men in Argentina at the period- were divided on who to nominate. There were three \"natural candidates\", who were the governors of the three largest provinces: Carlos Ruckauf of Buenos Aires, José Manuel de la Sota of Córdoba and Carlos Reutemann of Santa Fe. As a temporary arrangement, the governors decided to nominate Adolfo Rodríguez Saá, Governor of San Luis. The Peronists' easy majority in both houses of Congress ensured that Rodríguez Saá was elected on December 22.\n\nWhile de la Rúa's term expired in 2003, some argued that only a president legitimated by popular vote would be able to bring Argentina out of the crisis. To that end, Rodríguez Saá was designated as interim president for only three months, until presidential elections were held on March 3. If needed, a ballotage would be held on March 17. The winner would take office on April 5 for the balance of de la Rúa's term. \n\nHowever, Rodríguez Saá didn't seem at all satisfied with being a caretaker president. From the first moment, Rodríguez Saá embarked on ambitious projects aimed at giving him popularity. In his inaugural speech, he announced that Argentina would default on its foreign debt, an announcement received by rousing applause from the members of Congress. He then proceeded to announce the issuing of a \"third currency\" (alongside the peso and the dollar) to boost consumption. Later on, Rodríguez Saá announced that he would extradite every former military officer charged with human rights abuses during the Dirty War who was requested by foreign courts. Another measure was to stand down the state of siege.\n\nThere were also some unpopular designations to the Cabinet. The most notorious one was the appointment of former Mayor of Buenos Aires Carlos Grosso, arguably one of the most corrupt figures in Argentine politics. Rodríguez Saá also courted the powerful Peronist trade unions in a move that was recognized as an attempt to wrestle power from the other Peronist governors.\n\nNew riots and \"cacerolazos\" took place on Buenos Aires, with some protesters entering the Congress Palace and burning furniture. On December 30, Rodríguez Saá called for a summit of Peronist governors at the Presidential holiday retreat of Chapadmalal, south of Mar del Plata. Of the fourteen Peronist governors, only five attended. Realizing that he lacked support from his own party, Rodríguez Saá returned to his home province to announce his own resignation to the Presidency after barely a week in office.\n\nRamón Puerta refused to take over as interim President again, resigning as President Pro-Tempore of the Senate. With no President, Vice President or President Pro-Tempore of the Senate, the Presidency of Argentina was placed in the hands of the next-in-line: Eduardo Camaño, who was the Speaker of the House of Deputies.\n\nCamaño was to take over until a new Legislative Assembly was convened. The Assembly convened on 1 January 2002, and debated extensively before designating Senator Eduardo Duhalde as President almost at midnight.\n\nDuhalde was one of the top leaders of the Peronist Party. However, many had thought that Duhalde's political career was ruined after his defeat in the 1999 presidential elections. In an ironic twist of events, Duhalde was called to complete the term of the man who beat him in the elections, Fernando de la Rúa. This was not to be a provisional presidency, as Duhalde was designated to complete the interrupted term of De la Rúa until the 2003 presidential elections.\n\nWith regard to the economy Duhalde and his Economy Minister Jorge Remes Lenicov decided on an even more extreme freezing of the bank deposits, which was then coupled with the so-called \"pesificación\" (\"peso-ification\", a forced transformation of all dollar-denominated accounts into pesos at an arbitrary fixed exchange rate), and a regulated devaluation. The fixed exchange rate system was abandoned soon afterwards, which was followed by a large depreciation.\n\nDuring the unrest millions of people formed neighbourhood assemblies, occupied unused land and factories, created barter and mutual aid networks, implemented workers' self-management across hundreds of factories and rejected trade unionism and political parties. Around a third of the population participated in these creations and these efforts have been repeatedly praised by anarchists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2801843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2801843", "title": "Deeds registration", "text": "Deeds registration\n\nDeeds registration is a land management system whereby all important instruments which relate to the common law title to parcels of land are registered on a government-maintained register. Deeds registration systems were set up to facilitate the transfer of title. The system had been used in some common law jurisdictions and continues to be used in some jurisdictions, including most of the United States. It is being replaced by Torrens systems in many jurisdictions. Australia, Ireland as well as most Canadian provinces have converted from deeds registries to Torrens titles. Some Canadian provinces have never operated a deeds registry and have always used Torrens titles. Other Canadian provinces which have converted from a deeds registry to Torrens titles have operated both systems in conjunction until the Torrens system gradually superseded the deeds registry system, as was the case in Nova Scotia and New Brunswick during the 2000s. In the Canadian province of Ontario, electronic registration led to Ontario's version of Torrens title covering almost all land, but the past deeds registration still governs some issues. Hong Kong and the Canadian provinces of Quebec, Newfoundland and Labrador and Prince Edward Island are the only provinces left which still operate a deeds registration system.\n\nIn contrast to the Torrens system in which basically the one who registered in a land registry as owner of a piece or parcel of land has an indefeasible title of the land, deeds registration system is merely a registration of all important instruments related to that land. In order to establish one's title to the land, a person (or usually their purchaser's attorney) will ascertain, for example:\n\nSince, in contrast to the Torrens system, the registry is merely a record of all instruments related to the land, the \"owner\" as shown on the land registry record (or common known as \"land search record\" in Hong Kong) does not necessarily mean that he has a \"good title\", which means a title that is not defeasible or potentially defeasible.\n\nIn a sale and purchase of land, a vendor is required to show a \"good title\" to the purchaser. Since the land search record is not conclusive, it leads to problems when a vendor has to prove his title, in particular when the land is old or involves multiple encumbrances. This may lead to litigation if the parties cannot agree on whether a good title is shown.\n\nAs we have seen, the deeds registration system can be very harsh on the vendor's part, the law gradually relaxes the vendor's duty.\n\nIn Hong Kong, the vendor is generally only required to prove his title up to 15 years prior to the date of the sale and purchase. Further, various legislative measures relieve the vendor's duty. For example, the vendor can rely on assumption that a recital of an instrument referring to matters prior to 15-year-old is true.\n\nIn Ireland a vendor has to produce \"a good root of title\" {usually a conveyance for value but some other instruments qualify also}. A purchaser cannot insist that the root of title be more than 40 years old and the practice is to only insist on a minimal 20-year period because there is a presumption that the recitals in a conveyance for valuable consideration are true if that conveyance is at least 20 years old.\n\nMany jurisdictions have switched or are switching from a deeds registration system to a system of title registration. For example, Hong Kong, one of the last common law jurisdictions to maintain a deed registration system, passed the Land Titles Ordinance in 2004, which will see Hong Kong shift to the Torrens system. The law will be gradually implemented over a period of twelve years. However, there is no timetable for the commencement of the Ordinance as at 2016. \n\n"}
{"id": "151350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=151350", "title": "Deliberation", "text": "Deliberation\n\nDeliberation is a process of thoughtfully weighing options, usually prior to voting. Deliberation emphasizes the use of logic and reason as opposed to power-struggle, creativity, or dialog. Group decisions are generally made after deliberation through a vote or consensus of those involved.\n\nIn legal settings a jury famously uses deliberation because it is given specific options, like guilty or not guilty, along with information and arguments to evaluate. In \"deliberative democracy\", the aim is for both elected officials and the general public to use deliberation rather than power-struggle as the basis for their vote.\n\nIn countries with a jury system, the jury's deliberation in criminal matters can involve both rendering a verdict and determining the appropriate sentence. In civil cases, the jury decision is whether to agree with the plaintiff or the defendant and rendering a resolution binding actions by the parties based on the results of the trial.\n\nTypically, a jury must come to a unanimous decision before delivering a verdict; however, there are exceptions. When a unanimous decision is not reached and the jury feels that one is not possible, they declare themselves a 'hung jury', a mistrial is declared and the trial will have to be redone at the discretion of the plaintiff or prosecutor.\n\nOne of the most famous dramatic depictions of this phase of a trial in practice is the film, \"12 Angry Men\".\n\nIn political philosophy, there is a wide range of views regarding how deliberation becomes a possibility within particular governmental regimes. Most recently, the uptake of deliberation by political philosophy embraces it alternatively as a crucial component or the death-knell of democratic systems. Much of contemporary democratic theory juxtaposes an optimism about democracy against excessively hegemonic, fascist, or otherwise authoritar regimes. Thus, the position of deliberation is highly contested and is defined variously by different camps within contemporary political philosophy. In its most general (and therefore, most ambiguous) sense, deliberation describes a process of interaction between various subjects/subjectivities dictated by a particular set of norms, rules, or fixed boundaries.\n\nThe origins of philosophical interest in deliberation can be traced to Aristotle’s concept of \"phronesis\", understood as “prudence” or “practical wisdom” and its exercise by individuals who deliberate in order to discern the positive or negative consequences of potential actions.\n\nFor many contemporary political philosophers, the rigidity of a particular set of norms, rules, or fixed boundaries about either the way that subjects who would qualify for deliberation are constituted (a position perhaps epitomized by John Rawls) or regarding the kinds of argument which qualify as deliberation (a position perhaps epitomized by Jürgen Habermas) constitute a foreclosure of deliberation, making it impossible.\n\n\"Existential deliberation\" is a term coined by the theorists of the emotional public sphere. Existential deliberation theorists contend that deliberation is an ontological state, rather than a process that can be deployed. As such, deliberation is a rare thing that only might happen in face-to-face encounters. This utilizes the insights of radical deliberation, in that the political is a rare discharge of potential into an otherwise sterile social field.\n\n\"Pragmatic deliberation\" is the epistemic variant on existential deliberation, frequently focusing on the ways in which groups could be assisted with producing positive outcomes that both aggregate and transform the views of effected publics.\n\nAdvocates of “public deliberation” as an essential democratic practice focus on processes of inclusiveness and interaction in making political decisions. The validity and reliability of public opinion improves with the development of “public judgment” as citizens consider multiple perspectives, weigh possible options, and accept the outcomes of decisions made together.\n\nRadical deliberation refers to a philosophical view of deliberation inspired by the events of the student revolution in May 1968. Political theory concerned with radical democracy, particularly that of such theorists as Michel Foucault, Ernesto Laclau, Chantal Mouffe, Jacques Ranciere, and Alain Badiou also focus upon deliberation insofar as the process of engagement between disparate positions create the conditions of possibility for a politics. Notably for these thinkers, the task of radical democracy is always and already unfinalized, subject to a series of changes which occur outside of the conscious influence of any single actor and are instead the discursive effects of the contingent assemblies of larger bodies politic.\n\nMichel Foucault's use of 'technologies of discourse' and 'mechanisms of power' describes how deliberation is either foreclosed or is a product of a series of technologies of discourse which produce a semblance of agency through the reproductions of power as they occur between individual subjects. The account of 'mechanisms' or 'technologies' is in some sense paradoxical: on the one hand, these technologies are inseparable from the subjects which enunciate them. On the other, to speak of the machine or technology which coordinates suggests an infrastructure through which the social is collectively organized, which suggests the removal of subjects from the means of their organization: a god's eye view of the social that is only coordinated by the movement of the parts.\n\nChantal Mouffe uses 'the democratic paradox' to generate a self-sustaining model of politics which is built on foundational contradictions - the non-resolution of which produces a productive agonism between subjects who recognize the other's right to speak. For Mouffe, the fact of the configuration of the social is the only foundational political stability - that and the certainty of a penultimate articulation's deferral. That is to say: re-articulations of the social will always occur. Again, process overwhelms content: the paradox of liberalism and popular sovereignty is the generative motor of radical democracy. The rhetorical gesture of the foundational paradox becomes a mechanism; an interface between the human and a language machine which produces the conditions of possibility for continued reconfiguration: a positive feedback loop for politics.\n\nAlthough Chantal Mouffe and Jacques Ranciere differ in their stance on what the conditions of the political are (for Mouffe, this is an internal reorganization of existing social arrangements in what are called 'articulations), for Ranciere, it is the incursion of an externality which had not yet been accounted for. In the 'arithmatic/geometric' distinctions of politics, there is a(n) (near) explicit appeal to the mechanical or mathematical: the political sustains itself by perpetuating a dialectic between homeostasis and reconfiguration (what N. Katherine Hayles might call 'pattern' and 'randomness') through a 'count' of what is internal to the police order. The mechanism of politics makes it possible for future reconfigurations only by making new inclusions, thereby rearranging the social, returning to homeostasis, and perpetuating the impossibility of a complete 'whole'. It is again a kind of rhetorical paradox which is the motor of politics: a foundational arbitrariness in who is or who is not permitted to speak.\n\nDeliberation theory is a non-political and non-legal subject dealing with the technical aspects of making decisions with varying amounts of information.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "286526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=286526", "title": "Dissident", "text": "Dissident\n\nA dissident, broadly defined, is a person who actively challenges an established doctrine, policy, or institution. In a religious context, the word has been used since 18th century, and in the political sense since 1940, coinciding with the rise of totalitarian systems, especially the Soviet Union.\n\nThe term \"dissident\" was used in the Eastern bloc, particularly in the Soviet Union, in the period following Joseph Stalin's death until the fall of communism. It was attached to citizens who criticized the practices or the authority of the Communist Party. The people who used to write and distribute non-censored, non-conformist \"samizdat\" literature were criticized in the official newspapers. Soon, many of those who were dissatisfied with the Soviet Bloc began to self-identify as dissidents. This radically changed the meaning of the term: instead of being used in reference to an individual who opposes society, it came to refer to an individual whose non-conformism was perceived to be for the good of a society. An important element of dissident activity in the USSR was informing society (both inside the Soviet Union and in foreign countries) about violation of laws and human rights: see Chronicle of Current Events and Moscow Helsinki Group. Some famous Soviet dissents were Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn and Andrei Sakharov.\n\nThe term \"dissident\" has become the primary term to describe Irish republicans who politically continue to oppose Good Friday Agreement of 1998 and reject the outcome of the referendums on it. These political parties also have paramilitary wings which espouse violent methods to achieve a United Ireland.\n\nIrish republican dissident groups include the Irish Republican Socialist Party (founded in 1974 – its currently-inactive paramilitary wing is the Irish National Liberation Army), Republican Sinn Féin (founded in 1986 – its paramilitary wing is the Continuity IRA), and the 32 County Sovereignty Movement (founded in 1997 – its paramilitary wing is the Real IRA). In 2006 the Óglaigh na hÉireann emerged, which is a splinter group of the Continuity IRA.\n\nDissidents and activists were among the earliest adopters of encrypted communications technology such as Tor and the dark web, turning to the technology as ways to resist authoritarian regimes, avoid censorship and control and protect privacy.\n\nTor was widely used by protestors on Mubarak regime in Egypt in 2011. Tor allowed dissidents to communicate anonymously and securely, while sharing sensitive information. Also, Syrian rebels widely used Tor in order to share with the world all of the horrors that they witnessed in their country. Moreover, government dissidents in Lebanon, Mauritania, as well as Arab Spring nations widely used Tor in order to stay safe while exchanging their ideas and agendas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39405384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39405384", "title": "Domestic Fuels Protection Act", "text": "Domestic Fuels Protection Act\n\nThe Domestic Fuels Protection Act (112th , 113th ) is a proposed law pending in the U.S. Congress to protect domestic producers and sellers of ethanol, biodiesel, and other clean fuels from liability to end-users who put the wrong kind of fuel or fuel mix into their tanks and suffer damage to their engines. The idea is to ensure that domestic producers of alternative fuel and related equipment aren’t put out of business due to crippling liability claims.\n"}
{"id": "5737821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5737821", "title": "Eagle feather law", "text": "Eagle feather law\n\nThe eagle feather law provides many exceptions to federal wildlife laws regarding eagles and other migratory birds to enable Native Americans to continue their traditional spiritual and cultural practices.\n\nUnder the current language of the eagle feather law, individuals of certifiable American Indian ancestry enrolled in a federally recognized tribe are legally authorized to obtain eagle feathers. Unauthorized persons found with an eagle or its parts in their possession can be fined up to $250,000.\n\nThe eagle feather law has incited ongoing debate about the criteria for ownership and possession of eagles and eagle parts. Debates have centered on the differences between enrollment in a federally recognized American Indian tribe, vs a racial, ethnic or self-identified concept of Indigeneity. Some arguments have centered on non-Natives being opposed to Natives having access to anything that all Americans cannot have.\n\nDefenders of the law have argued it is the only legal protection of American Indian spirituality and that because eagle supplies are limited, increasing the number of people who can have eagle parts may make feathers more scarce as well as endanger the lives of too many migratory birds (including threatened or endangered species).\n\nArguments in favor of amending the law (notably by supporters of Religious Freedom with Raptors, an organization dedicated to changing the eagle feather law) have been made on the grounds that it imposes \"racial preferences\" for American Indians and that the requirement of tribal enrollment to possess eagles undermines tribal sovereignty rights to fully welcome and include non-Natives in tribal customs involving eagle feathers. It is also argued that eagle permit certification restrictions based on enrollment status impede people with Indian ancestry but who may be unable to prove their ancestry, from exploring their heritage. Religious Freedom with Raptors also advocate removing enrollment requirements from 50 CFR 22, stating that enrollment requirements are a racial bias, and that such action would enable all U.S. citizens to apply for eagles or parts from the National Eagle Repository (overseen by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service), it would extend the ability of government-regulated programs and agencies to protect raptors by decreasing the profitability of raptor poaching and trafficking.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7220024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7220024", "title": "Felix Kaufmann", "text": "Felix Kaufmann\n\nFelix Kaufmann (4 July 1895, Vienna – 23 December 1949, New York) was an Austrian-American philosopher of law.\n\nKaufmann studied jurisprudence and philosophy in Vienna. From 1922 to 1938 he was a Privatdozent there. During this time Kaufmann was associated with the Vienna Circle. He also wrote on the foundations of mathematics where, along with Hermann Weyl and Oskar Becker, he was attempting to apply the phenomenology of Edmund Husserl to constructive mathematics.\n\nIn 1938, the conditions for Jewish scholars became too hard and he left for the USA. There he taught until his death as a law professor, in the Graduate Faculty of the New York School for Social Research. Kaufmann also aided fellow Austrian emigres in need of assistance during the pre-war years when the situation became dire for Jewish academics and scholars in Germany and Austria. Interceding on Karl Popper's behalf, Popper was offered academic hospitality at Cambridge University and a stipend of £150 for one year - this offer was transferable, and Friedrich Waismann took it up when Popper went to New Zealand instead (see John Watkins in Proceedings of the British Academy, 94, 645-684, 652).\n\nIn 1936 he produced a book on the methodology of the social sciences (Kaufmann 1936). After moving to the United States he was invited to write a similar book in English, but what he produced (Kaufmann 1944) was significantly different, under the influence of Dewey's \"Logic: The Theory of Inquiry\". The original book was translated over 70 years later (Cohen and Helling 2014).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997876", "title": "Garratt v. Dailey", "text": "Garratt v. Dailey\n\nGarratt v. Dailey, 46 Wash. 2d 197, 279 P.2d 1091 (Wash. 1955) is a famous tort law case that illustrates the principle of \"intent\" for intentional torts.\n\nDailey, a 5 years, 9 months boy, moved a lawn chair that Ruth Garratt was going to sit down in. When she did, she fell, sustaining injuries. Garratt brought an action against the child for battery.\n\nThe trial judge found in favor of Dailey stating that there was no intent to harm the old lady. Garratt appealed to the Washington Supreme Court.\n\nThe issue before the Court was whether a lack of intent to cause harm precludes a battery charge.\n\nRelying on the definition of battery from the Restatement of Torts, the Court held that battery could only be found if it is shown that the boy knew with \"substantial certainty\" that after the chair was moved Garratt would attempt to sit in the chair's original position. That is, the accused must be substantially certain that his action would result in the contact. The absence of an intent to injure or to play a joke is not sufficient to absolve the accused of liability. It is sufficient for the plaintiff to prove only that the accused had sufficient knowledge to foresee the contact with \"substantial certainty.\"\n\nThe Court, noting that a new trial was unnecessary, remanded the case back to the trial court for clarification of the boy's knowledge at the time. Subsequently, the trial Court found in favor of Garratt and was affirmed by the state Supreme Court.\n\n"}
{"id": "23135486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23135486", "title": "Genetically modified food in the United States", "text": "Genetically modified food in the United States\n\nThe United States is the largest grower of commercial crops that have been genetically engineered in the world, but not without domestic and international opposition.\n\nMonsanto, based in Creve Coeur, Missouri in the United States, is the leading producer of genetically engineered seed; it sells 90% of the world's GE seeds.\n\nSee Farmer Assurance Provision. (This bill is commonly referred to as the “Monsanto Protection Act” by its critics.)\n\nIn 1983, environmental groups and protestors delayed the field tests of the genetically modified ice-minus strain of \"P. syringae\" with legal challenges.\"Foundation on Economic Trends v. Heckler\", 756 F.2d 143 (D.C. Cir. 1985).\n\nIn this case, the plaintiff argued both for mandatory labeling on the basis of consumer demand, and that GMO foods should undergo the same testing requirements as food additives because they are \"materially changed\" and have potentially unidentified health risks. The plaintiff also alleged that the FDA did not follow the Administrative Procedures Act in formulating and disseminating its policy on GMO's. The federal district court rejected all of those arguments and found that the FDA's determination that GMO's are Generally Recognized as Safe was neither arbitrary nor capricious. The court gave deference to the FDA's process on all issues, leaving future plaintiffs little legal recourse to challenge the FDA's policy on GMO's. \"Alliance for Bio-Integrity v Shalala\", 116 F.Supp.2d 166 (D.D.C. 2000).\n\nDiamond v. Chakrabarty, 447 U.S. 303 (1980), was a United States Supreme Court case dealing with whether genetically modified organisms can be patented. The Court held that a living, man-made micro-organism is patentable subject matter as a \"manufacture\" or \"composition of matter\" within the meaning of the Patent Act of 1952. The fact that the organism sought to be patented is alive is no bar to patentability.\n\n\nNumerous organizations based in the U.S. oppose or have concerns about genetic engineering for various reasons. Groups such as the Center for Food Safety, the nonprofit science advocacy group Union of Concerned Scientists, Greenpeace and the World Wildlife Fund have expressed concerns about the FDA's lack of a requirement for additional testing for GMO's, lack of required labeling and the presumption that GMO's are \"Generally Recognized as Safe\" (GRAS). Some of these groups have questioned whether the FDA is too close to companies that seek approval for their products.\n\nAlthough there have been no recorded instances of harm to human health due to the consumption of genetically engineered foods, there is concern over their impact on health. One of the largest food recalls in US history, was the Taco Bell GMO recall, where a Bt corn plant not approved for human consumption due its risk as an allergen, had contaminated food products like the tacos at Taco Bell, and a huge percentage of US's seed supply. No health problems were linked to Starlink corn, and subsequent evaluations of the Bt trait determined that there is medium risk to human health.\n\nThe USA is the largest commercial grower of genetically modified crops in the world. United States regulatory policy is governed by the Coordinated Framework for Regulation of Biotechnology. The United States is not a signatory to the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety. For a genetically modified organism to be approved for release it is assessed by the USDA, the FDA and the EPA. USDA evaluates the plant's potential to become weeds, the FDA reviews plants that could enter or alter the food supply and the EPA regulates the genetically modified plants with pesticide properties. Most developed genetically modified plants are reviewed by at least two of the agencies, with many subject to all three. Final approval can still be denied by individual counties within each state. In 2004, Mendocino County, California became the first and only county to impose a ban on the \"Propagation, Cultivation, Raising, and Growing of Genetically Modified Organisms\", the measure passing with a 57% majority. (See Mendocino County GMO Ban)\n\nThe Biotechnology Regulatory Services program of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) agency within the USDA is concerned with protecting agriculture and the environment from potential pests under the Plant Protection Act of 2000 (part of the Agriculture Risk Protection Act) and the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). Each transgenic event is regulated separately as the transgene insertion locus varies even when using identical constructs and host genotypes. This could result in different expression patterns or could affect the function of other endogenous genes within the host. The USDA is responsible for approving field trials of GM plants under either the notification or permit procedures. The notification procedure is a streamlined process for the simplest or most familiar genetically engineered plants that meet six criteria (is not a noxious weed, the function of the genetic material is known and characterized, stable integration, no significant risk of creating new viruses and that no animal or human pathogen sequences are present). Most field trials are approved under the notification procedure. The permit procedure is much more elaborate and is required for all genetically engineered organisms that do not meet the notification requirements or any plant-made pharmaceuticals or plant-made industrial products.\n\nAPHIS officials are responsible for inspecting the field trials. At least one inspection is carried out for each state listed on a permit, while inspection of field trials authorized by notification is conducted based on the relative risk of each trial. For field trials of organisms that contain pharmaceutical or industrial compounds, inspections are carried out more frequently (five times during establishment and twice yearly after that). If the inspectors are satisfied that there are no regulatory concerns they issue a Notice of Compliance. If the regulations are not being adhered to the inspectors will issue a Notice of Non-Compliance requesting that the deviations be fixed, or for more serious breaches a warning letter requiring a written response and corrective action to be taken within a given time frame. Formal investigations are carried out on developers who may not be adhering to regulations, permit conditions, or other requirements, which can result in civil penalties or criminal charges.\n\nIn 1993, the USDA proposal to remove regulatory oversight from GM organisms deemed environmentally benign was approved and four GM plants (Flavr Savr tomato, virus-resistant squash, bromoxynil-tolerant cotton and glyphosate-tolerant soybean) obtained non-regulatory status that year. Non-regulated status means that permits and notifications are no longer required for introductions of this organism. Applicants can petition APHIS for non-regulated status if the GM organism poses no more of a plant pest risk than an equivalent non-GM organism. APHIS will prepare at least two documents (an \"Environmental Assessment\" and a \"determination of non-regulatory status\") under the NEPA while considering the application.\n\nFour federal district court suits have been brought against APHIS challenging their regulation of GM plants. Two involved field trials (herbicide-tolerant turfgrass in Oregon; pharmaceutical-producing corn and sugar in Hawaii) and the other two were the deregulation of GM alfalfa and GM Sugar Beet. APHIS initially lost all four cases, with the judges ruling they failed to diligently follow the NEPA guidelines. However, the Supreme Court overturned the nationwide ban on GM alfalfa and an appeal court allowed the partial deregulation of GM sugar beet crops. After APHIS prepared Environmental Impact Statements for both crops they were deregulated again.\n\nThe FDA is responsible for the safety and security of human and animal food and drugs, including any that are genetically modified. The FDA was responsible for approving the first commercialized GMO, Genetech's genetically modified human insulin (Humulin) in 1982 and the first commercialized GM whole food, Calgene's Flavr Savr tomato in 1994. When evaluating new GM foods or feed the FDA looks for the presence of any new or altered allergens and toxicants and examines changes in the levels of nutritional and anti-nutritional substances. Food and feed that is identical or nearly identical in composition to current products is deemed to be substantially equivalent and is not required to undergo review by the FDA. The FDA has been criticized for using substantial equivalence, with a major accusation being that FDA review is essentially voluntary as almost all GM products are substantially equivalent. However, all GM food and feed currently on the US market (as of 2008) have undergone a FDA \"consultation\", where the developer submits the compositional data and FDA scientist compare it to regular food and feed.\n\nThe FDA consultation focuses on whether the new food or feed contains any new allergens or toxic substances and whether the nutritional components of the food or feed have increased or decreased. The developer submits documentation to the FDA describing the food or feed and a FDA assigned caseworker can then request additional information on expected dietary exposure, in particular if any risk groups (children, elderly etc.) might be exposed. As of 2007, the FDA has not identified any genetically modified foods with unexpected changes in the nutrient composition or levels of allergens or toxic substances. However, allergic proteins have been detected when some GM products have undergone testing. Pioneer Hi-Bred inserted a gene from the Brazil nut into transgenic soybean resulting in soy with an enhanced nutritional profile. The inserted gene did not translate into a known allergen at the time, but when tested with serum from people who are allergic to Brazil nut the allergenic nature of the protein was discovered. The development of the transgenic soybean expressing a Brazil nut allergen was stopped after these tests. The FDA consultation process is relatively (when compared to the other agencies regulating GM) informal and they do not approve new GM products. Instead they issue a \"memo\" stating whether the new food is the same as or different from the non-modified variety.\n\nThe Center for Veterinary Medicine of the FDA regulates genetically modified animals in consultation with Centers at the FDA responsible for regulating pharmaceuticals or other medical products derived from biopharm animals. The FDA also has extra guidelines that apply to genetically modified animals that will be used in the manufacturing and testing of therapeutic products and xenotransplantation. The FDA guidance documents do not establish legally binding laws and are viewed as recommendations, unless specific regulatory or statutory requirements are cited. Any relevant federal, State, or local laws and regulations must also be adhered to.\n\nThe EPA regulates substances with pesticide characteristics, looking at potential threats to human health or the environment. They claim not to regulate the genetically modified plants, but the pesticides produced by the plants or properties that change the usage of applied pesticides . This includes; plants engineered to produce resistance to herbicides (e.g. Roundup Ready), plants that produce their own pesticides (e.g. BT) and virus resistant plants. Authority to regulate the pesticide properties in genetically modified organisms was granted in the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) and the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA). The EPA published regulations in 1994 and begun acting on them in 1995. In 1994 they proposed the exemption of three categories of genetically modified plants under their regulation. These were plants where the genetic material originated in sexually compatible plants (cisgenic), plants that used physical barriers to prevent the target pest from attaching itself, and plants expressing viral coat proteins to protect against virus infection. In 2001, rules regarding exemption of cisgenic plants had been finalised. The other two proposed exemptions were still under review in 2010.\n\nThe EPA evaluated each submission on a case-by-case basis. The EPA assesses data concerning the characterisation of the end-product of the engineered organism (presently all plants evaluated produce proteins), as well as data on mammalian toxicity, effects on non-target organisms and environmental metabolism. For Bt products the producer must also supply an insect resistance management program. For herbicide resistant plants the EPA co-ordinates with the USDA and FDA, but does not regulate the plant itself. Instead it regulates the herbicide and its use on the new cultivar. The EPA examines the construct used to transform the plant and the biology of recipient plant. The sequence of the resulting protein must be described, expression pattern and intencity verified and any modifications to the protein reported. The EPA considers the potential allergenicity of the product, issues surrounding gene flow into wild species, possible effects on non-target organisms, likelihood of it persisting in the environment and the potential for insect resistance developing when assessing submissions.\n\n"}
{"id": "9258445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9258445", "title": "Global Youth Service Day", "text": "Global Youth Service Day\n\nGlobal Youth Service Day (GYSD), originally launched and known as National Youth Service Day in the United States, is a coordinated annual event which gathers young people around the world in conducting community service, service learning, and youth voice activities that benefit their communities, their countries, and the world. Activities are organized in more than 100 countries each April to help mark the celebrations, and engage millions, making it the largest annual celebration of young volunteers.\n\nIn 2019, the event will be April 12-14. Coordinated by Youth Service America together with a coalition of organizations, GYSD's primary sponsor is State Farm with contributing sponsorship from Disney and the Inter-American Development Bank. More than 2,000 youth organizations around the world participate each year. A variety of organizations with national reach across the United States engage in National Youth Service Day activities, including the United States Conference of Mayors, Woodmen of the World, and Habitat for Humanity. A variety of organizations have been accredited with administering the day, including Global Youth Action Network, Youth Service America, and Points of Light Foundation.\n\nSpeaking about Global Youth Service Day, Jane Goodall commented, \"I have often said that every individual counts, every individual has a role to play, and every individual makes a difference. Global Youth Service Day proves it.\" Kofi Annan said that, \"Volunteers are some of our most valued partners, and Global Youth Service Day celebrates the efforts of the youngest of them.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48658745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48658745", "title": "God Sent Me", "text": "God Sent Me\n\nGod Sent Me: A Textbook Case on Evolution vs. Creation is an autobiographical book by the lead plaintiff in the U.S. Federal Court case \"Selman v. Cobb County\". The book was self-published May 15, 2015 and details Selman's involvement in the court case resulting from the Cobb County School Board's 2002 decision to affix warning stickers against evolution on the schools' new science textbooks. The trial occurred in November 2004 and the Cobb County school board settled in Selman's favor in December 2006.\n\nJeffrey Selman was born in 1946 and raised in the Bronx, New York. He was highly influenced by the civil rights era in the 1960s. After receiving a BA in history he joined VISTA which later became AmeriCorps. He became a school teacher in the South Bronx, then later a COBOL programmer and traveled until he met his wife in Atlanta, Georgia and finally settled in Cobb County where he resides as of 2015.\n\nSelman served on the Georgia State Public School curriculum committee in 1996. He read an article in the Atlanta weekly alternative paper, Creative Loafing, about anti-evolution stickers in the new science textbooks in Cobb Public Schools, and first contacted the school board about his concerns. After feeling ignored by the school board, Selman contacted the ACLU. At the time his son was attending elementary school in the Cobb school system. After the trial he became the President of the Americans United for Separation of Church and State for Atlanta.\n\nSelman states that he was very upset when he read about what the Cobb County school board had done with the warning stickers on the science textbooks. He told interviewer Josh Zepps on Center for Inquiry's Point of Inquiry podcast that he felt strongly that in science class you are supposed to teach the science, \"Whether or not you believe in it or understand it, is irrelevant. That's the topic so you should be taught the topic. ... You aren't going to teach French in a Russian class, the kids are there to learn Russian, not French. [The school board members] were defining a definition that evolution was a theory and not a fact, and that is outside even the meaning in a science class.\"\n\nA few years before Selman became aware of the warning stickers, he learned that the Cobb County School board, upon pressure from creationist parents, had contacted the school's textbook publisher regarding concerns of teaching elementary school students about evolution and the Big Bang. The publisher responded by blanking out the pages of their textbook that had chapters concerning these subjects. The publisher left the page numbers on these blank pages, and the index and table of contents still listed evolution and the Big Bang, but the pages concerned were blank.\n\nOne of the reasons Selman states for writing this book is because \"you keep banging your head against the wall, eventually a door will open, sure enough... you just can't give up on things.\" Selman received death threats throughout the case and afterwards, which he calls \"very unnerving\" he stated his confusion with the question \"What ever happened to the commandment, 'Do Not Kill' ... these people don't follow their own tenets.\"\n\nAccording to the American Freethought Podcast, the book talks about how the case was started and how long everything took. They considered the book to be very \"readable\" with \"great narration\" and jokingly stated that it was \"fantastic for a COBOL programmer\". Reviewing the book in Skeptical Inquirer magazine, Glenn Branch felt that the book's account of the pre-trial was \"especially interesting\" as the media did not cover that aspect as much, the book reveals a lot about the first settlement offer as well as Selman's deposition using transcripts, and also the involvement of the expert witnesses. Branch would have liked to have seen more credit given to the role that Kitzmiller v. Dover had on forcing the school board to settle. According to Branch the book is missing several explanations that would have helped explain the story further. Selman stated that he originally wrote enough for two books, but was advised to cut it back to the content he eventually published. Branch said that the book would have profited by a \"firm editorial hand\" to clean up the prose and references. He also states that not having a bibliography and index was \"mildly frustrating\". Branch mentioned that Selman's writing style is \"engaging\" and states that the use of Yiddish phrases throughout the book will delight some readers.\n\nAfter talking to publisher friends, Selman decided to self-publish \"God Sent Me\". He used CreateSpace on Amazon.com. Originally the book was going to be about the Cobb School Board and the Cobb County Christian dominant prayer cases, but it was too large. His editor told him to cut out the second case and turn it into two books. Selman says that he is happy to speak about the book in interviews, but that he is not writing another book.\n\nSelman advises that people need to take a stand when they see something wrong like this. He now understands that you can remain anonymous. The courts need to know your name and check for standing, but your name does not have to become public if you don't want it to. Also when you are contacting a group like the ACLU, you may have to be persistent, they are very busy, they will get back to you, but you have to be patient, nothing will happen quickly. Selman has contacted many bookstores attempting to arrange book signings, he is comfortable doing speaking engagements. He states his goal is to get the word out.\n\n"}
{"id": "42285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42285", "title": "Gravissimum educationis", "text": "Gravissimum educationis\n\nGravissimum educationis is the Second Vatican Council's Declaration on Christian Education. It was promulgated on 28 October 1965 by Pope Paul VI, following approval by the assembled bishops by a vote of 2,290 to 35.\n\nThe document is generally referred to, not by its English-language title, \"Declaration on Christian Education\", but by the opening words of its original Latin text, which mean \"extremely important education\".\n\nThe document quotes at length from \"Divini illius Magistri\" (\"That divine teacher\", 1929) by Pope Pius XI.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10355056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10355056", "title": "Great Transition", "text": "Great Transition\n\nThe Great Transition is a term used by the Great Transition Initiative and its predecessor, the Global Scenario Group (GSG), to describe a vision of a just and sustainable global future. The term was originally coined by Kenneth E. Boulding in \"The Meaning of the 20th Century – The Great Transition\" (1964) and describes the shift from pre-modern to post-modern culture, and the four possible courses of action that these organizations believe will allow humanity to successfully manage the Great Transition. \n\nElements of the Great Transition vision include egalitarian social and ecological values, increased inter-human connectivity, improved quality of life, and a healthy planet, as well as the absence of poverty, war and environmental destruction. The Great Transition concept was cited by Prime Minister of Bhutan Jigme Thinley, Josh Ryan-Collins of the New Economics Foundation and the Capital Institute. It was used as a theme for the 2011 SmartCSOs conference on strategies for Civil Society Organisations in London.\n\nThe Great Transition was first introduced by the Global Scenario Group (GSG), an international body of scientists convened in 1995 by the Tellus Institute and Stockholm Environment Institute to examine the requirements for a transition to a sustainable global society. The GSG set out to describe and analyze scenarios for the future of the earth as it entered a planetary phase of civilization.\n\nFurther development of Great Transition scenarios is carried on by the Great Transition Initiative (GTI). Launched in 2003, GTI is a global network of several hundred scholars, intellectuals, civil society leaders, and activists working to develop visions and pathways for a “Great Transition\" to a future of equity, solidarity and ecological sustainability. The Initiative was relaunched as an online journal and discussion network in 2014.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1033769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1033769", "title": "Guido Calabresi", "text": "Guido Calabresi\n\nGuido Calabresi (born October 18, 1932) is an American legal scholar and Senior United States Circuit Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. He is a former Dean of Yale Law School, where he has been a professor since 1959. Calabresi is considered, along with Ronald Coase and Richard Posner, a founder of the field of law and economics.\n\nCalabresi is the son of the late cardiologist Massimo Calabresi and European literature scholar Bianca Maria Finzi-Contini Calabresi (1902–1982). Calabresi's parents, active in the resistance against Italian fascism, eventually fled Milan for New Haven, Connecticut, immigrating to the United States in September 1939. The family became naturalized American citizens in 1948. Guido's older brother Paul Calabresi (1930–2003) was a prominent medical and pharmacological researcher of cancer and oncology.\n\nCalabresi received his Bachelor of Science degree \"summa cum laude\" from Yale College in 1953, majoring in economics—a choice which would have significant connections with his later pursuits. He was then selected as a Rhodes Scholar, studying at Magdalen College, Oxford, which awarded him a Bachelor of Arts degree with First Class Honors in 1955. He received his Bachelor of Laws (LL.B.) \"magna cum laude\" from Yale Law School in 1958, graduating first in his class, and was also a law review member as Note Editor of the \"Yale Law Journal\" from 1957 to 1958. Following graduation from Yale Law, Calabresi served as a law clerk for United States Supreme Court Associate Justice Hugo Black from 1958 to 1959. Additionally, he earned a Master of Arts in politics, philosophy, and economics from the University of Oxford in 1959; and is a member of Phi Beta Kappa and the Order of the Coif.\n\nCalabresi had been offered a full professorship at the University of Chicago Law School in 1960. However, he joined the faculty of the Yale Law School upon completion of his Supreme Court clerkship, becoming the youngest ever full professor at Yale Law, and was Dean from 1985 to 1994. He now is Sterling Professor Emeritus of Law and Professorial Lecturer in Law at Yale.\n\nCalabresi is a member of the Connecticut Bar Association and from 1971 to 1975 served as town selectman for Woodbridge, Connecticut.\n\nCalabresi is, along with Ronald Coase, a founder of law and economics. His pioneering contributions to the field include the application of economic reasoning to tort law, and a legal interpretation of the Coase theorem. Under Calabresi's intellectual and administrative leadership, Yale Law School became a leading center for legal scholarship imbued with economics and other social sciences. Calabresi has been awarded more than forty honorary degrees from universities across the world. He is a member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences.\n\nOn February 9, 1994, President Bill Clinton nominated Calabresi as a United States Circuit Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, he was confirmed by the United States Senate on July 18, received his commission on July 21, and entered duty on September 16, 1994, replacing Thomas Joseph Meskill. President Clinton is a 1973 graduate of the Yale Law School, although he never had Calabresi as a professor. Among Calabresi's group of former students are Supreme Court Justices Samuel Alito, Clarence Thomas and Sonia Sotomayor, former United States Attorney General Michael Mukasey, feminist legal scholar and law professor at the Universities of Michigan and Chicago Catharine MacKinnon, former White House Counsel Gregory Craig, Senator John Danforth, Harvard Law School professor Richard H. Fallon, Jr., civil and human rights legal scholar Kenji Yoshino, torts scholar and law professor at the University of Virginia Kenneth Abraham, and New York University School of Law torts professor Catherine Sharkey. Calabresi, alone among Yale Law School faculty members, supported Thomas's nomination to the Supreme Court.\n\nCalabresi took senior status on July 21, 2009.\n\nYale, in 2006, created the Guido Calabresi Professorship of Law, with Kenji Yoshino serving as the inaugural professor of the endowed chair. Daniel Markovits is the current holder of the chair.\n\nCalabresi is an Honorary Editor of the University of Bologna Law Review, a general student-edited law journal published by the Department of Legal Studies of the University of Bologna.\n\nCalabresi is the author of four books and over 100 articles on law and related subjects.\n\n\n\n\nCalabresi married Anne Gordon Audubon Tyler, a social anthropologist, freelance writer, social activist, philanthropist and arts patron. Both received their primary education at the Foote School in New Haven, graduating in 1946 and 1948, respectively. Calabresi would continue on to receive his secondary education from Hopkins School, graduating in 1949. They reside in Woodbridge, Connecticut, and have three children. Anne Gordon Audubon Calabresi (Anne Calabresi Oldshue), a psychiatrist, graduated \"cum laude\" from Yale, attended medical school at Case Western Reserve University and completed residency at Harvard. Massimo Franklin Tyler (\"M.F.T.\") Calabresi, a journalist with Time magazine, also graduated from Yale. Bianca Finzi-Contini Calabresi attended Yale as well, graduating \"summa cum laude\", and has a Ph.D. in Renaissance literature from Columbia. Calabresi's nephew, Steven G. Calabresi, is a Constitutional Law professor at Northwestern University and a co-founder of the Federalist Society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5932001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5932001", "title": "Height restriction laws", "text": "Height restriction laws\n\nHeight restriction laws are laws that restrict the maximum height of structures.\n\nThere are a variety of reasons for these measures. Some restrictions limit the height of new buildings so as not to block views of an older work decreed to be an important landmark by a government. For example, In the Russian capital of Saint Petersburg, buildings could not be taller than the Winter Palace.\n\nOther restrictions are because of practical concern, such as around airports to prevent any danger to flight safety.\n\nHeight restriction laws sometimes become a point of contention in cities due to their use in regulating the growth of the housing supply. Fast growth of housing supply benefits renters by producing low prices and a lot of choice, while slow or no growth in housing supply benefits property owners by allowing them to charge higher prices. In this way, height restriction laws often become part of a class conflict even when their original purpose was innocuous.\n\nPalestine and Jordan inherited laws from the days of the British Mandate that prevent buildings from rising more than four stories above the ground except by special government permission. In Amman, these regulations have been credited with maintaining the city's architectural and urban heritage, but have also been accused of inflating housing prices and causing unsustainable urban sprawl \n\nPRESIDENTIAL DECREE No. 1537 dated January 4, 1978 ENTITLED \"Providing for the preservation of the walls of Intramuros and the restoration of its original moat and esplanade\" by including preservation and restoration of the walled city includes (Section 10) the height of buildings within the Intramuros district shall be based upon the widths of streets on which the building abuts but the total height of the structure shall not exceed 30 meters. No tower shall be 35 meters high measured from the top of the sidewalk.\n\nTo protect the ridge line along Hong Kong Island and in Kowloon, height restrictions are imposed according to the location of the buildings or structures.\n\nPrior to the 1998 closure of the Kai Tak Airport, many places in Kowloon had a stricter building height restriction due to its proximity to the airport.\n\nIn Bali, Indonesia, a building cannot be higher than a coconut tree, which is about 15 meters. The only building that is higher than a coconut tree is the Bali Beach Hotel because the hotel was built before the height restriction was announced. The restriction was enforced by a regional regulation, however, how much this is enforced is in question.\n\nBuildings in Raffles Place, Marina Centre, Marina Bay Sands, Bugis and Kallang have height restrictions of up to 280m because of the proximity of Paya Lebar Airbase.\n\nIn Europe, there is no official general law restricting the height of structures. There are however height restriction laws in many cities, often aimed to protect historic skylines.\n\nIn Athens, buildings are not allowed to surpass twelve floors so as not to block the view towards the Parthenon. There are several exceptions though, such as the Athens Tower, the Atrina center and the OTE central building which all exceed that level. This is due to them either being built far away from the centre, or to the fact that they were constructed during periods of political instability. The city's tallest structure is the Athens Tower, reaching 103m and comprising 25 floors.\n\nIn the central area of Rome, delimited by the Aurelian Walls, no building can exceed the height of the dome of St. Peter's Basilica, 136 meters. A skyscraper called Torre Eurosky (Eurosky Tower) built in 2012 in EUR neighbourhood exceed this limit being 155 meters high.\n\nThere is however a height restriction for new onshore wind turbines in the European Union, which set their total height to 200 metres.\n\nCanada has no national height restrictions, but many individual cities do have height restriction bylaws and building is restricted by the national aviation authority (Transport Canada) near airports. Some examples:\n\nBoth the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) have a rebuttable presumption not to build any antennae over above ground level. This is to prevent those structures from being a hazard to air navigation. In recent years, the FAA has requested that height limits within of an airport runway be lowered from to , as development near airports has increased.\n\nFor airports, sometimes there are exceptions for height restrictions made for important infrastructure equipment, as radio towers or for structures older than the airport. These structures have to be marked with red and white paint, have flight safety lamps on top, or both. Often red and white paint and flight safety lamps have to be installed on high structures (taller than ) far away from airports. Height restriction laws are not always kept strictly.\n\nSeveral cities in the United States have local height limits, for example:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11189664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11189664", "title": "International Competition Network", "text": "International Competition Network\n\nThe International Competition Network is an informal, virtual network that seeks to facilitate cooperation between competition law authorities globally. It was established in 2001 after the publication of a \"Final Report of the International Competition Policy Advisory Committee to the US Attorney General and Assistant Attorney General for Antitrust\" (or the \"ICPAC report\", for short). Competition law experts in the US recommended that increased collaboration with overseas authorities could contribute to the coordination of enforcement and sharing of information on competition policy globally. It comprised 132 member states from 120 competition jurisdiction exclusively devoted to international competition enforcement.\n\nIts first annual conference was held in Naples, Italy in September 2002, with representatives from 59 countries and NGOs. The second conference was in June 2003 in Merida, Mexico. Working groups review different policy areas, such as mergers, or competition advocacy. The last annual conference was hosted by Competition Commission of Singapore in April 2016. The upcoming annual conference will be hosted by Portuguese Competition Authority in May 2017. It will be hosted by Competition Commission of India in March - April 2018 at New Delhi.\n\n"}
{"id": "15239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15239", "title": "International Prize Court", "text": "International Prize Court\n\nThe International Prize Court was an international court proposed at the beginning of the 20th century, to hear prize cases. An international agreement to create it, the \"Convention Relative to the Creation of an International Prize Court\", was made at the Second Hague Conference in 1907 but never came into force.\n\nThe capturing of prizes (enemy equipment, vehicles, and especially ships) during wartime is a tradition that goes back as far as organized warfare itself. The International Prize Court was to hear appeals from national courts concerning prize cases. Even as a draft, the convention was innovative for the time, in being both the first ever treaty for a truly international court (as opposed to a mere arbitral tribunal), and in providing individuals with access to the court, going against the prevailing doctrines of international law at the time, according to which only states had rights and duties under international law. The Convention was opposed, particularly by elements within the United States and the United Kingdom, as a violation of national sovereignty.\n\nThe 1907 convention was modified by the \"Additional Protocol to the Convention Relative to the Creation of an International Prize Court\", done at the Hague on October 18, 1910. The protocol was an attempt to resolve some concerns expressed by the United States at the court, which felt it to be in violation of its constitutional provision that provides for the U.S. Supreme Court being the final judicial authority. However, neither the convention nor the subsequent protocol ever entered into force, since only Nicaragua ratified the agreements. As a result, the court never came into existence.\n\nA number of ideas from the International Prize Court proposal can be seen in present day international courts, such as its provision for judges \"ad hoc\", later adopted in the Permanent Court of International Justice and the subsequent International Court of Justice.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1990886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1990886", "title": "James Drummond, 4th Earl of Perth", "text": "James Drummond, 4th Earl of Perth\n\nJames Drummond, 1st Duke of Perth KT PC (1648 – 11 May 1716), also 4th Earl of Perth and 7th Lord Drummond, was a Scottish statesman, and Jacobite.\n\nThe eldest son of James Drummond, 3rd Earl of Perth by his spouse Lady Anne, daughter of George Gordon, 2nd Marquess of Huntly, he was educated at the University of St Andrews, and succeeded his father 2 June, and was served heir to him 1 October 1675.\n\nIn 1678 he was appointed a member of the Scottish Privy Council and supported Lauderdale's policy of giving up the disaffected western shires of Scotland to highland raids, before joining Hamilton's faction. He was appointed Lord Justice General in 1682 and an Extraordinary Lord of Session on 16 November the same year. He introduced the use of the thumbscrew in Scotland. He was also Lord Chancellor of Scotland, 1684 - 1688.\n\nHe was a partner with William Penn in the settlement of East New Jersey in 1681. As one of 24 proprietors of a large parcel of property that took up much of what is now the State of New Jersey, Perth sponsored an expedition in 1684 to establish a settlement there. The City of Perth Amboy, New Jersey, which sits on the waterfront facing Staten Island, New York, and which was once a port city in its own right, is named in his honor — a statue of Lord Perth stands in front of City Hall (\"Amboy\" comes from a Lenape word meaning \"the point\").\n\nIn 1685 the 4th Earl of Perth converted to Roman Catholicism, along with his brother, the 1st Earl of Melfort. In 1686, Perth and his brother opened a Catholic chapel in Edinburgh, and their public attendance there resulted in a riot. Perth and his brother suggested to King James II that the Scottish Parliament would approve a repeal of the Test Act and penal laws against Catholics and Protestant dissenters, but this was later proved untrue. On 29 May 1687, nonetheless, he was made a Knight of the Thistle, being one of the eight original knights of that Order.\n\nHe is said to have had a novodamus, 17 December 1687, (on resignation) of his dignities, creating him Earl of Perth, Lord Drummond, Stobhall, and Montefex (Scotland), with remainder, failing heirs-male of his and of his brother's body, to the heirs-male of the second Earl.\n\nWhen James retreated from Salisbury before William, the people, in the absence of the troops, whom Perth had disbanded, rose in Edinburgh. Perth departed on 8 December under a strong escort to his seat of Drummond Castle, Perthshire. Finding himself unsafe there, he fled in disguise over the Ochil mountains to Burntisland, where he gained a vessel about to sail to France. He had, however, been recognised, and a boatful of watermen from Kirkcaldy pursued the vessel, which, as it was almost a dead calm, was overtaken at the mouth of the Forth. Perth was dragged from the hold in woman's clothes, stripped of all he had, and thrown into the common prison of Kirkcaldy. Thence he was taken to Stirling Castle, and not released until 4 August 1693 on condition of a bond to leave the kingdom under penalty of £5000.\n\nHe joined the exiled King at St Germain, by whom he was, on 19 August 1696, appointed Governor to the young Prince of Wales, and by whose testamentary directions he was, before 17 October 1701, created by King James III and VIII, Duke of Perth, Marquess of Drummond, Earl of Stobhall, Viscount Cargill, and Baron Concraig, all proclaimed as in the Peerage of Scotland (but in reality in the Jacobite peerage), with remainder to his heirs-male whatsoever. In 1701 he was recognised as a Duke in France by King Louis XIV.\n\nOn 14 February 1703, he was made a Gentleman of the Bedchamber, and on 21 June 1706 he was appointed a Knight of the Garter. He was afterwards Chamberlain to Queen Mary of Modena, and is said to have been created a Knight of the Golden Fleece by the King of Spain.\n\nDuring James's exile, the Duke of Perth acted as his ambassador to Rome, and after the King's death, Perth erected a monument to him in Paris.\n\nThe Duke of Perth married:\n\nHe died at St Germain, was interred in the Scots Chapel, Paris, and was succeeded by his son and heir by his first wife:\n\n"}
{"id": "33040556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33040556", "title": "Legal profession in Thailand", "text": "Legal profession in Thailand\n\nThe legal profession in Thailand has three categories: judges, public prosecutors, and lawyers. Legal practice is based upon the civil law system with the code of law influenced by other codified systems such as France, Germany and Japan as well as customary laws of Thailand.\n\nThe ancient origins of Thai Law was based on the Hindu code of Manu. During the Sukhothai period (1238–1350 AD), there was no system of Justice since the King was \"the Fountain of Justice\" who alone settled disputes between the people.\n\nDuring the Ayutthaya Period (1351–1767 AD), the first semblance of a legal system emerged. The law code was the Royal Stone Inscription which was formulated from a set of rules derived from the Kings’ decisions in the Court of Law. Although the law code allowed for people to be represented in court for civil and criminal matters, the lawyer’s work was limited. He could not be involved in the examination of witnesses before the court and was mainly concerned with writing plaints and filing them before the court.\nWhen Thailand was invaded by Burma in 1767, collections of law were partially destroyed. King Rama I ordered to have all laws rectified and written into law books called \"the Law of the three Great Seals\" which remained in force for the next 103 years. Despite this development, the role of the lawyer remained static and constricted. This could be attributed to simple way of life of the society where majority did not resort to the law to settle their disputes.\n\nIn 1827, Thailand, which had trade relations with Western countries, was forced by England to amend its rules and regulation. Adopting an open door policy, King Rama IV (reigned 1851–1868> tried to reform the Thai law and judiciary to make it acceptable to the Western countries.\n\nIn continuation of King Rama IV’s efforts, his son, King Rama V (reigned 1868–1910) appointed Royal Commissioners to reform existing laws. These efforts revolutionized the law and modernized the judiciary. A new court system was set up between 1894–97. The King no longer judged cases himself although decisions of the Supreme Court of Appeal were still made under his name.\n\nIn 1892, the Ministry of Justice was established and its Minister, Prince Raphi, was appointed to unify the judiciary. He set up the first law school in Thailand. Moreover, he also reorganized the Thai court system under the Law on the Organization of 1908.\n\nIn 1914, the Bar Association in Thailand was formed and was the first Thai lawyers’ organization. Following this, the first Lawyers’ Act was passed and it legitimized the legal profession and practice in Thailand.\n\nAs seen from above, the role of the legal practice has evolved tremendously over the years. In the early years, it could be said that the power of judiciary and lawmaking was solely vested with the King. Today, although the King is the Head of the Thai Nation, his legislative power is exercised with the consent of the National Assembly and the power of the judiciary is vested in the Courts. The lawyer’s role has also been legitimized with the establishment of law schools and with the Lawyers’ Act.\n\nLegal education in Thailand is an undergraduate programme. To enter, it is compulsory to take the National University Entrance Examination conducted by the Ministry of University Affairs. Entry is determined by academic records from upper secondary school, test scores, interviews and physical examinations.\n\nOne can choose between Private universities, Public universities and Open universities.\n\nOpen universities are typically for rural dwellers who are interested in legal studies but are unable to attend other universities. Education by open universities is often off-campus and on a correspondence basis.\n\nThe Institute of Legal Education of Thai Bar Association was set up in 1948 to increase legal knowledge among law practitioners.\n\nThere is the 4-year Bachelor of Laws (LL.B.) course; the 1-year Master of Laws (LL.M.) programme, and the doctoral programme (Ph.D), typically a 3-year course.\n\nLectures are conducted in Thai, and faculty members are graduates of foreign law schools. Students are required to choose an area of specialisation in their third year of study, either Business Law, Public Law, International Law, or Civil and Criminal Law.\n\nGeneral criticism regarding Thai law schools include the excessive rote learning, memorisation of laws and the ineffective lecture-style of teaching which discourages discussion. Moreover, scant attention is given to subjects like international law and investment subjects because of a lack of qualified teachers on these topics in the country.\n\nThe government’s desire to promote foreign direct investment in Thailand has prompted a reform of local university curriculum to meet the changing international demands.\n\nThe curriculum is also changing from a more traditional to a more student-centered one where law lecturers prepare their lesson plans with case studies, activities and effective evaluation.\n\nSince becoming an ASEAN member in 2008, the ASEAN Charter has positively impacted the Thai legal education. Many courses are now taught in English and there is a significant increase in partnership courses with overseas universities. It is now also a requirement to be competent in foreign language and IT for graduates to be able to transcend national boundaries in communication and conduct legal research at the international level.\n\nAs set out in the Lawyer’s Act, lawyers have to fulfill a set of conditions to obtain a license. In addition to the LL.B., law graduates are required to be Thai nationals, cannot be a government official, and must pass an exam for a lawyer license. On passing the Lawyers Council examination, one can apply for permission to practice law.\n\nThe legal profession in Thailand is divided among various types of professionals. The professionals involved are \"First and Second class lawyers\" (distinction has since been abolished), \"Notaries\" and \"Foreign Practitioners\".\n\nPrior to 1985, practising lawyers in Thailand were divided into two classes. First-class lawyers were law graduates while second-class lawyers held a diploma in law and passed an examination held by the Bar Association.\n\nThe main distinction was that first-class lawyers could practice throughout the country while second-class lawyers could only practice in ten provinces specified in their licenses. Since the Lawyers' Act passed in 1985, this distinction has been removed and those registered under the Act have the right of audience in all courts throughout the country.\n\nIn Thailand, public documents, such as birth and marriage certificates need to be verified, witnessed and certified by a notary, a public official who legalizes documents by his hand and official seal.\n\nTo become a notary, a Thai lawyer is required to complete a legal training course by the Lawyer’s Council of Thailand.\n\nThere have been reported instances of unlicensed notaries in Thailand, and the public has been advised to be cautious in dealing with notaries.\n\nForeigners are not allowed to formally practice law. Instead foreigners work as \"consultants\", mostly on transnational cases.\n\nForeign practitioners provide a valuable service to their clients which the local lawyers cannot. Moreover, they impart valuable knowledge on foreign laws to their Thai colleagues.\n\nThe main criteria for law graduates intending to be judges are: At least 25 years of age, an L.L.B., a Barrister-at-Law degree from the Bar Institute, and two years’ experience in the legal profession. Judge trainees then undergo training courses and serve as judges’ assistants for not less than one year.\n\nThere are four types of judges in the Thai system – career judges, senior judges, associate judges and Datoh justices.\n\nThe process to becoming a career judge involves five stages.\n\nFirst Stage: Meet general qualifications for judge-trainee, such as: Thai nationality, 25 years of age and being a member of the Thai Bar Association.\n\nSecond Stage: Fulfill one of three methods to become a judge-trainee:\n\nThird Stage: Undergo at least one year of training as a judge-trainee.\n\nFourth Stage: Approval by the Judicial Service Commission and tendering application to the King.\n\nFifth Stage: Receiving royal appointment by the King.\n\nUnlike Commonwealth jurisdictions which value the experience and wisdom of older judges, Senior Judges in Thailand are viewed very differently. When judges reach 60 years old, they are restricted to duties in the lower Courts of First Instance, and cannot hold the position of Chief Justice.\n\nIn addition, judges reaching 60 must be reappointed to office, and can only hold office till the age of 70. To be reappointed, judges must:\n\nLayman judges are not legally trained. They typically comprise people with experience or expertise in areas such as Family, Labor and Intellectual Property. Having laymen working with career judges helps provide more varied opinions in deciding cases.\n\nLayman judges are selected by the Judicial Service Commission and do not hold permanent positions .\n\nKadis (Qadi) are experts in Islam. They work with career judges to decide family law cases in certain provinces. A Kadi ensures that the court complies with Islamic principles.\n\nA Kadi is required to be above 30 years old, possess good command of Thai, and have knowledge in Islamic laws regarding family and succession.\n\nThe Judicial Service Commission plays a crucial role in the appointment of judges. It screens all potential candidates before their tender to the King, and holds power over the removal, promotions, salary increments and punishment of judges.\n\nThe Judicial Service Commission consists of mainly members of the judiciary: the Supreme Court President, 12 members from all Court levels and 2 officers elected by the Senate.\n\nThe Constitution sets out the powers and duties of public prosecutors.\n\nThe main criteria for Law graduates intending to be public prosecutors are: Thai nationality, an LL.B, and passing the Thai Bar Association examination.\n\nThe Public Prosecutors Committee has crucial role in the appointment of Public Prosecutors. It is charged with:\n\nThai lawyers have a very different role from their Western counterparts in dealing with civil wrongs and disputes. In Thailand, parties tend to avoid legal proceedings because of its confrontational nature. Instead, they rely on mutual understanding to reach a solution.\n\nThis non-litigious environment stems from the Thai culture, which accords great value to the importance of harmonious societal relationships, and places communal interests above individual interests. As such, dispute resolutions which avoid conflict and embody the spirit of tolerance are perceived as the more appropriate approach.\n\nHence, lawyers are drawn to roles in non-judicial approaches such as mediation and arbitration, which allows disputing parties more flexibility.\n\nThe Thai judiciary plays a key role in Thai politics.\nOn 30 May 2007, the Constitutional Court of Thailand dissolved the Thai Tak Thai Party, the incumbent ruling party under former Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra, due to international law violations.\nIn the wake of the 2011 elections, the Democrat legal team also initiated legal proceedings to challenge and dissolve the Puea Thai Party.\n\nIn light of the violence against \"Red Shirt\" anti-government protestors in April and May 2010, lawyers have demanded a full investigation into the deaths of more than 80 civilians. They have filed a notice to the International Criminal Court (ICC) alleging human rights violations.\n\nThe Human Rights Committee of the Lawyers Council of Thailand regularly comments on the issues of human rights that plague Thailand and even propose strategies the government can follow.\n\nIn June 2011, the committee released a report that assessed the conditions under which the government could send back Burmese refugees in accordance with the requirements of international law and existing treaties and agreements.\n\nIn September 2011, the committee submitted a statement to the PM, the Secretary-General of the National Security Council, the Minister of Social Development and Human Security, the Minister of Defense, and Commissioner-General of the Royal Thai Police on certain strategies they can adopt to handle the problem of human trafficking of the Rohingya people.\n\nThe Thongbai Thongbao Foundation was founded in 1990 by Thongbai Thongbao, who was a well-known human rights lawyer from Mahasarakham pronvince, Thailand. They provide both legal aid and education to various sectors of the society, and they visit about 30 villages and districts annually. Their objective is to ensure that Thai people are aware of their rights and know how to take proper legal action. Aspects of the law that affect people in everyday situations, such as law on marriages, law on loans and mortgages, labour law and human rights law, are taught and discussed at their training sessions.\n\nThe International Thai Foundation was founded in 2012 with the Thai Ministry of Interior, Kor Tor 2266. It provides legal advice and representation to those whom are disadvantaged, poor, disabled, DFNs and vulnerable so they may access justice. It established a Community Legal Centre in Chiang Mai.\n\nToday, the legal profession is no longer exclusive to the upper classes. Entry into the Thai law schools is based on a merit system and middle class students are generally not restricted by university fees.\n\nFirst, the rise of the middle class, or the chonchan klaang, saw an increase in the number of Thai students in higher education, from 16.1% in 1990 to 44.6% in 2009. Second, the average Thai household in 2009 made 250,836 Baht annually, compared to typical law school fees of 23,570 Baht per academic year.\nThis resulted in a 25 times increase in the number of lawyers in Thailand – in 1960, there were about 2,000 lawyers for a population of 23 million; in 2008, there were about 54,000 lawyers in a population of 60 million.\n\nThe legal profession in Thailand is traditionally a Thai-dominated profession because foreigners are not allowed to formally practice law. This can be viewed as a form of control over the legal profession, suggesting the government’s intention to preserve local dominance.\n\nHowever, Thailand’s embrace of globalization has made transnational legal relations unavoidable. Thailand’s rapid development caused a shortage of Thai lawyers possessing expertise in specialized areas of law.\n\nThis has led to a unique situation in reality, where many foreign lawyers work in Thailand but under the guise of \"business consultants\". Proposals have been made reform, but it remains to be seen if the Thai government will relax requirements for foreign lawyers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10652690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10652690", "title": "Letter of reprimand", "text": "Letter of reprimand\n\nA letter of reprimand is a US Department of Defense procedure involving a letter to an employee or soldier from the superior that details the wrongful actions of the person and the punishment that can be expected. A \"Formal Letter of Reprimand\"\nis one in which a copy of the letter is kept on record.\n\nIn military contexts, a formal letter of reprimand can be career-ending, even without prescribed punishments, because it makes it difficult to secure advancements in rank or to enjoy the respect of one's peers.\n\nIn legal contexts, a letter of reprimand is sometimes called a \"letter of admonition\". It is the lowest form of attorney discipline under the Code of Professional Responsibility.\n\nThe Manual for Court Martial, R.C.M. 306(c)(2), states:\n\nAdministrative action. A commander may take or initiate administrative action, in addition to or instead of other action [e.g., non-judicial punishment (Article 15 or \"NJP\") and court-martial] taken under this rule, subject to regulations of the Secretary concerned. Administrative actions include corrective measures such as counseling, admonition, reprimand, exhortation, disapproval, criticism, censure, reproach, rebuke, extra military instruction, or the administrative withholding of privileges, or any combination of the above.\n\nThe order of severity for formal written administrative action is:\n\nA letter of reprimand may be issued in lieu of punishment under Article 15 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice. A formal letter of reprimand is placed in the service member's permanent personnel record.\n\nOn September 25, 2008, the Department of Defense\nannounced that six US Air Force and two US Army generals and nine colonels had received letters of reprimand, admonishment, or concern because of the mishandling of fuses for nuclear weapons, which were mistakenly shipped to Taiwan. Two Air Force major generals were asked to stay in their current position; the others either retired, planned to retire, or were removed from their position. Air Force Chief of Staff Norton Schwartz met with each officer personally before issuing the letters. He noted they committed no offense under the UCMJ but \"did not do enough to carry out their leadership responsibilities for nuclear oversight. For that they must be held accountable.\"\n"}
{"id": "43500306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43500306", "title": "List of WTO dispute settlement cases", "text": "List of WTO dispute settlement cases\n\nThis is a chronological list of World Trade Organization dispute settlement cases. , there have been 507 such cases.\n\n"}
{"id": "49132918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49132918", "title": "Made in Spain", "text": "Made in Spain\n\nMade in Spain is a merchandise mark indicating that a product is all planned, manufactured and packed in Spain.\n\nSpain is the biggest exporter of wine in the world.\n\nIn 2015 Spain produced 2.7 million cars, which made it the 8th largest automobile producer country in the world. The forecast as of 2016 was to produce a total of 2.8 million vehicles, from which about 80% is for export. \n"}
{"id": "21618211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21618211", "title": "Medical amnesty policy", "text": "Medical amnesty policy\n\nMedical Amnesty Policies are laws or acts enacted protecting from liability those who seek medical attention as a result of illegal actions. Such policies have been developing most notably in colleges in the United States regarding alcohol use by students. Schools such as Cornell University have implemented such policies to protect students seeking medical attention from illegal action for underage drinking and possession of alcohol and/or other drugs. The purpose of such policies is to reduce the hesitation caused by fear of legal action to seek medical attention.\nSimilar policies are applicable at many levels: Colleges and universities, local communities, as well as state governments. In 2012, The Medical Amnesty Initiative was started with the specific purpose of advocating for the introduction, passage, and education of Medical Amnesty legislation throughout the United States.\n\nMedical amnesty policies were first present in the University setting. Although failure to seek medical assistance in cases of alcohol poisoning can lead to fatal outcomes, evidence suggests that the threat of judicial consequences resulting from enforcement of the minimum drinking age or other law or policy violations leads some students to refrain from calling for emergency medical services. A study was initiated in 2002 at Cornell University to investigate if implementation of a Medical amnesty policy increase the likelihood that students will call for help in alcohol-related medical emergencies; and increase the likelihood that students treated for alcohol-related medical emergencies will receive a brief psycho-educational intervention at the university health center as a follow-up to their medical treatment.\n\nIn April 2009, more than 100 college and university presidents signed the Amethyst Initiative. The Amethyst Initiative seeks to spark discussion about the current drinking age, problems related to underage drinking, and to develop new ideas about the best ways to prepare young adults to make responsible decisions about alcohol. One preventative component of this that many campuses have adopted is requiring an online alcohol education course before registering for classes. Another option to better handle underage drinking is the introduction of medical amnesty policies.\n\nMedical amnesty policies can extend legal protection to varying degrees.\n\nIndividual amnesty is the most limited level of protection. This level protects individuals who are seeking medical attention for themselves as a result of an illegal action. Individual amnesty does not extend to organizations that person may be a part of or peers also present with the individual at that time.\n\nAmnesty for victims offers more protection than individual amnesty, as it protects individuals requiring medical attention regardless of whether it was the victim or another party who sought help. Victim amnesty does not address the sanctions possible for violating parties besides the victim.\n\nThese policies, also known as Good Samaritan policies, protects individuals who call for another person seeking medical attention as a result of an illegal action. Liability protection in medical amnesty policies can often extend to those seeking help regardless if they are the one who is given medical assistance. This policy builds on individual amnesty but does not guarantee protection from legal prosecution for an organization the persons are a part of or attending. See also Good Samaritan law.\n\nProtects an organization that is related to the event at which medical attention is sought as a result of an illegal action. Organizational amnesty would extend liability protection to fraternities, sororities, clubs and other social venues that may have people at their location who are under the influence of certain intoxicants. This level of amnesty allows for the largest level of protection and is subsequently the most controversial as well. Various institutions provide medical amnesty to individuals and callers but do not extend amnesty to organizations that may be involved.\n\nMany Colleges and Universities hold some level of a Medical amnesty policy. Medical amnesty at the university level most often pertains to exemption from punishment for an intoxicated or impaired underage student if medical assistance is called to help him or her in an emergency situation. Instead of a harsher penalty for underage drinking or drug use, a student usually receives some sort of counseling by a professional following an incident to help identify if the student has a more serious alcohol or drug problem and to provide the student with suggestions on how to stay safe in the future.\n\nUltimately universities seek to encourage students to call for help, valuing the student's well being as the primary concern and forgoing punishment for the student's mistake, instead referring students involved to education, community service, and rehabilitation services. Richmond University compiled a list in February 2010 of colleges and universities that have a medical amnesty policy in place as of that time. The organization, Students for Sensible Drug Policy, is an extremely strong advocate for expanding medical amnesty policies on college campuses. The organization provides a list of schools who currently have a medical amnesty policy and a description of what the policy includes as well as a brief description of the school.\n\nThe specifics of Medical Amnesty Acts, or sometimes titled 911 Good Samaritan or 911 Lifeline, vary from state to state. The laws are also in varying stages of development and implementation. The following states have passed a Medical Amnesty law: Alabama, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Delaware, Georgia, Hawaii, Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, North Carolina, North Dakota, New Jersey, New York, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia. Washington, D.C. also provides Medical Amnesty protection. Several states also have a Medical Amnesty bill moving through the legislative process.\n\nMichigan’s Medical Amnesty Legislation, House Bill 4393, was signed into law by Governor Rick Snyder on May 8, 2012, and took effect on June 1, 2012. The bill was sponsored by Representative Anthony G. Forlini at the request of Steve Marino, Aaron Letzeiser, and the Associated Students of Michigan State University.\n\nNo federal legislation has been introduced to date concerning medical amnesty.\n\nFollowing the successful passage of Michigan's Medical Amnesty law, advocate Aaron Letzeiser created The Medical Amnesty Initiative; a non-profit organization dedicated to the introduction, passage, and education of Medical Amnesty legislation throughout the United States.\n\nCornell University completed one of the most extensive studies on Medical Amnesty Policies to date. The study found that within two years of implementing a Medical Amnesty (MAP)/Good Samaritan Policy, “students were less likely to report fear of getting an intoxicated person in trouble as a barrier to calling for help. Furthermore, the percentage of students seen by health centre staff for a brief psycho-educational intervention after an alcohol-related emergency more than doubled (from 22% to 52%) by the end of the second year.”\n\n“This finding, combined with the survey data indicating a slight decrease in students’ barriers to calling for help, suggests that the increase in calls for help in an alcohol-related emergency was a function of the MAP and related educational efforts rather than changes in drinking practices.”\n\n“While well-intended, policies and practices at institutions of higher education that are designed to enforce minimum legal drinking age laws and restrict other aspects of alcohol possession and consumption may have negative consequences. For example, such policies may actually deter some students from calling for emergency medical services in dangerous circumstances caused by heavy alcohol use (Colby, Raymond, & Colby, 2000). When alcohol is present, students may be reluctant to seek help in these emergencies because of potential judicial consequences for themselves, the person in need of assistance, or the hosting organization (Meilman, 1992).Often the decision whether to call for help happens late at night and becomes the responsibility of student bystanders whose judgment may be impaired because of their own alcohol consumption.”\n\n“Research suggests that when individuals who are treated for alcohol-related emergencies receive, as part of their follow-up care after the emergency, a brief psycho-educational intervention examining their alcohol use, the likelihood of recurrence is reduced (Longabaughet al.,2001). At Cornell, students are unlikely to avail themselves of such services on a voluntary basis, even when they receive written requests to do so from the director of health services. In contrast, students who are required to participate in such education as a result of judicial action do so consistently. Since September 2001, the standard requirement for students with a first-time judicial violation has been participation in the Cornell BASICS (Brief Alcohol and Screening Intervention for College Students) program. The Cornell BASICS program was modeled on research that found a two-session screening and feedback process, with elements of motivational interviewing and cognitive-behavioral skills training, to be effective in reducing drinking and the harm associated with high-risk alcohol consumption in the college environment (Baer, Kivlahan, Blume, McKnight, & Marlatt, 2001; Barnett et al., 2004; Borsari & Carey, 2000; Dimeff, Baer, Kivlahan, & Marlatt, 1999; Marlatt et al., 1998).”\n\n\"A random sample survey of Cornell undergraduates conducted in the spring of 2000 found that 19% of respondents reported thinking about calling for help because they were concerned about someone who was severely intoxicated, though only 4% actually called for help. The most frequently cited reason for not calling for help was that the respondent was not sure if the person was sick enough (9.3%). The next highest reason given was because the respondent did not want to get the distressed individual in trouble (3.8%).”\nMany people have criticized medical amnesty policies as policies that perpetuate underage drinking. Critics note that the goal of ameliorating the issue of youth alcohol consumption and drug abuse should focus more on preventing such activities rather than simply providing a more open course of action once choices have been made. An alternative explanation could be that the increase in calls for help reflects an increase in heavy drinking among the student population resulting in a larger percentage of students in need of emergency assistance.\n\n"}
{"id": "19468508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19468508", "title": "Memorandum of Understanding on the Conservation and Management of Marine Turtles and their Habitats of the Indian Ocean and South-East Asia", "text": "Memorandum of Understanding on the Conservation and Management of Marine Turtles and their Habitats of the Indian Ocean and South-East Asia\n\nThe Memorandum of Understanding on the Conservation and Management of Marine Turtles and their Habitats of the Indian Ocean and South-East Asia is an intergovernmental agreement that aims to protect, conserve, replenish and recover sea turtles and their habitats in the Indian Ocean and South-East Asian region, working in partnership with other relevant actors and organizations.\n\nMajor threats to marine turtles include unsustainable exploitation, destruction of nesting and feeding habitats, and incidental mortality in fishing operations. The Conservation and Management Plan—containing 24 programs and 105 specific activities—focuses on reducing threats, conserving critical habitat, exchanging scientific data, increasing public awareness and participation, promoting regional cooperation, and seeking resources for implementation.\n\nThe MoU was concluded in Bonn, Germany on 23 June 2001 and came into effect on 1 September 2001. The intent is that it will remain open for signature indefinitely.\n\nWaters and coastal States of the Indian Ocean and South-East Asia and adjacent seas, extending eastwards to the Torres Strait. For implementation purposes, the area is divided into four sub-regions: South-East Asia + neighbours, Northern Indian Ocean, Northwestern Indian Ocean, and Western Indian Ocean. States, located on the territory of the Agreement, are the following: Australia, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Brunei Darussalam, Cambodia, China, Comores, Djibouti, Egypt, Eritrea, France, India, Indonesia, Islamic Republic of Iran, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mauritius, Mozambique, Myanmar, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Saudi Arabia, Seychelles, Singapore, Somalia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Thailand, Timor Leste, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, United Kingdom, Vietnam, Yemen. The United States of America also participated in the Memorandum of Understanding.\n\nAs of May 2013, 33 states have signed the memorandum. The list of the countries is found below with the dates of the signature in the parentheses:\n\nThe list of turtle species, currently protected by the Memorandum, is the following\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57888254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57888254", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Swaziland)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Swaziland)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs of Swaziland oversees the administration of justice through the various courts. The ministry has responsibilities such as the following:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46904638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46904638", "title": "Modified universalism", "text": "Modified universalism\n\nModified universalism or modified universality is a legal concept (particularly an English legal concept) relating to the general principle that in relation to corporate insolvency national courts should strive to administer the estate of insolvent companies in the spirit of international comity. The broad concept is that it is desirable for cross-border insolvencies to be managed by a single officeholder as a single estate rather than a series of piecemeal and unconnected proceedings in different countries, and that this should be recognised globally. In practice, whilst many countries will recognise foreign bankruptcy proceedings, in many instances the courts have set some limits on the recognition of insolvency proceedings, such that the courts apply this principle of modified universality whereby the courts retain a discretion to assess whether the overseas proceedings are consistent with their own principles of justice and public policy. But, subject to that safeguard, the courts will generally defer to the proceedings which are regarded as the \"main proceedings\" for the purposes of getting in and distributing assets of the insolvent company. The principal is referred as to \"modified\" universalism in that it strives to find a balance between purely territorial bankruptcy systems, and entirely universal international bankruptcy system.\n\nCredit for the invention of the modern term is usually given to Professor Jay Westbrook.\n\nThe concept of modified universalism broadly underpins the UNCITRAL Model Law on Cross-Border Insolvency, and the EC Insolvency Regulation on Insolvency Proceedings (Council Regulation (EC) No 1346/2000). Similarly, Chapter 15 of the US Bankruptcy Code (which is based upon the UNCITRAL Model Law) is heavily predicated on the concept of modified universalism.\n\nThe concepts of universalism and modified universalism have, predictably, shifted and evolved over time. In English law the concept of \"universalism\" is usually used in contrast to the alternative theory of judicial cooperation in cross-border insolvencies referred to as the \"doctrine of unity\". As has been judicially noted: \"The meaning of the expression 'universalism' has undergone a change since the time it was first used in the 19th century, and it later came to be contrasted with the 'doctrine of unity.' In 1834 Story referred to the theory that assignments under bankrupt or insolvent laws were, and ought to be, of universal operation to transfer movable property, in whatever country it might be situate, and concluded that there was great wisdom in adopting the rule that an assignment in bankruptcy should operate as a complete and valid transfer of all his movable property abroad, as well as at home, and for a country to prefer an attaching domestic creditor to a foreign assignee or to foreign creditors could 'hardly be deemed consistent with the general comity of nations … [T]he true rule is, to follow out the lead of the general principle that makes the law of the owner's domicil conclusive upon the disposition of his personal property,' citing \"Solomons v Ross\" as supporting that doctrine: \"Story, Commentaries on the Conflict of Laws\", 1st ed (1834), pp 340-341, para 406.\"\n\nA number of countries throughout the world have sought to apply some form of modified universalism through passing statutes or other forms of codified laws. As noted above, US bankruptcy law substantially implements the principles of modified universalism in the adoption of the UNCITRAL Model Law in Chapter 15. In the United Kingdom the same UNCITRAL Model Law has been substantially implemented by way of the Cross-Border Insolvency Regulations 2006 (SI 2006/1030). In addition to the United States and the United Kingdom, approximately 17 other countries have adopted cross-border insolvency laws modelled on the UNCITRAL Model Law, including Canada, Japan and Australia.\n\nIn the other member states of the European Union (other than Denmark), a variation of the doctrine applies under the auspices of EC Insolvency Regulation on Insolvency Proceedings.\n\nIn other jurisdictions various forms of \"ad hoc\" cross-border cooperation exist on the basis of a foreign main proceeding.\n\nUnder the common law (i.e. in the absence of specific statutory provisions in countries which are based upon common law systems) the main proponent of the concept in recent times has been Lord Hoffman. In \"HIH\" [2008] 1 WLR 852 he said:\n\nThe concept of some form of universalism is not a modern innovation. In English law in cases as ancient as \"Solomons v Ross\" (1764) 1 H Bl 131n and \"Re African Farms\" 1906 TS 373 there has been tacit recognition of the principle. In \"Galbraith v Grimshaw\" [1910] AC 508 Lord Dunedin stated that there should be only one universal process of the distribution of a bankrupt's property and that, where such a process was pending elsewhere, the English courts should not allow steps to be taken in its jurisdiction which would interfere with that process. However, bankruptcy laws have for the most part historically developed along territorial lines, and in many jurisdictions those insolvency laws were outstripped by the development of international business.\n\nThe more recent focus on the principle was driven by the more recent decisions of the Privy Council by the decisions in \"HIH\" and \"Cambridge Gas\", predominantly through the efforts of Lord Hoffman. In the latter case Lord Hoffman opined:\n\nCommentary on the decisions was mixed. Whilst some legal commentators applauded the attempt to develop a system of comity to ensure the fair treatment of claimants in international bankruptcies, others criticised the decision for subverting domestic law and for the unstructured and philosophical reasoning which lead to broad principles rather than defined rules. Concern was expressed that in his judgments Lord Hoffman sought to apply broad aspirational principles rather than specific rules. In \"Cambridge Gas\" he relied upon the availability of a scheme of arrangement under Manx law as a basis for recognising a Chapter 11 judgments in the United States where the US court had not been in a position to exercise jurisdiction over all of the parties. Lord Hoffman rationalised this on the basis that the purpose of insolvency is not to determine rights (like a conventional civil judgment) but rather to implement a system for the administration of claims. His judgments were also criticised for simply assuming the doctrine of corporate personality should be disregarded in such circumstances.\n\nThe Supreme Court of Ireland declined to follow \"Cambridge Gas\" and \"HIH\" in its decision in \"In re Flightlease (Ireland) Ltd\" [2012] IESC 12.\n\nThe momentum which was generated towards a broad modified universalism at common law was abruptly arrested in a subsequent majority decision of the Privy Council in \"Rubin v Eurofinance SA\". The leading judgment was given by Lord Collins, with whom Lord Sumption and Lord Walker agreed. In particular they rejected Lord Hoffman's suggestion that the availability of a scheme of arrangement under domestic law made it appropriate to recognise the Chapter 11 relief from abroad. Lord Collins stated: \"although statute law may influence the policy of the common law, it cannot be assumed, simply because there would be a statutory power to make a particular order in the case of domestic insolvency, that a similar power must exist at common law. So far a \"Cambridge Gas\" suggests otherwise, the Board is satisfied that it is wrong\". Lord Collins amplified that \"to apply insolvency legislation by analogy 'as if' it applied, even though it does not actually apply, would go so far beyond the traditional judicial development of the common law as to be a plain usurpation of the legislative function\".\n\nThey also rejected the earlier statements of Lord Hoffman that insolvency proceedings were, by their nature, different from civil claims. Accordingly, as a result of \"Rubin\" whether or not a judgment of a foreign court in insolvency proceedings will be recognised or not will depend upon the ordinary principles of recognition of foreign judgments in the law of the relevant forum - there are no special rules for insolvency proceedings.\n\nAlthough substantially overruling his judgments, the Privy Council in \"Rubin\" described Lord Hoffman's opinion in \"Cambridge Gas\" as \"brilliantly expressed\" and his speech in \"HIH\" as \"equally brilliant.\"\n\nAlthough the cases of \"HIH\", \"Cambridge Gas\" and \"Rubin\" are all treated as stating principles of English law, curiously each one of the decisions is a decision of the Privy Council on appeal from another common law jurisdiction (\"HIH\" was on appeal from Bermuda, \"Cambridge Gas\" was on appeal from the Isle of Man, and \"Rubin\" was on appeal from the Cayman Islands).\n\nAlthough there have been some knee-jerk reactions to the \"Rubin\" decision as heralding the death of modified universalism, it is important to keep the decision in context. Modified universalism as a concept is still a fundamental part of a number of codified legal systems, whatever the limits applied to the common law doctrine in \"Rubin\".\n\nFurthermore, it is important to remember that the series of decisions in \"Cambridge Gas\", \"HIH\" and \"Rubin\" focused on two relatively narrow points of the doctrine, namely: (1) whether a judgment of a foreign court in relation to the proper administration insolvency proceedings should be binding against persons who were not party to that judgment (to which \"Rubin\" has decisively answered \"no\"), and (2) whether a creditor who lodges a claim in liquidation proceedings administered by the court is taken to have submitted to the jurisdiction of that court (to which \"Rubin\" indicates the answer is \"maybe\"). But treating the \"Rubin\" decision as stating some wider principle is danger, particularly as the Privy Council was keen to move away from wide statements of principle and focus on narrow and fact specific rules. Indeed, in \"Rubin\" the Privy Council stressed that the common law still generally favours universalism.\n\n"}
{"id": "3990490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3990490", "title": "Perfidy", "text": "Perfidy\n\nIn the context of war, perfidy is a form of deception in which one side promises to act in good faith (such as by raising a flag of truce) with the intention of breaking that promise once the unsuspecting enemy is exposed (such as by coming out of cover to attack the enemy coming to take the \"surrendering\" prisoners into custody). Perfidy constitutes a breach of the laws of war and so is a war crime, as it degrades the protections and mutual restraints developed in the interest of all parties, combatants, and civilians.\n\nPerfidy is specifically prohibited under the 1977 \"Protocol I Additional to the Geneva Conventions of 12 August 1949\", which states:\nArticle 37. – Prohibition of perfidy\nArticle 38. – Recognized emblems\nArticle 39. – Emblems of nationality\nDisapproval of perfidy was part of the customary laws of war long before the prohibition of perfidy was included in Protocol I. For example, in the 1907 Hague Convention \"IV - The Laws and Customs of War on Land\", Article 23 includes:\nDuring the Pacific Theatre of World War II, Japanese soldiers were reported to often booby-trap their dead and wounded and/or fake surrenders or injuries to lure Allied troops into a trap then surprise attack them. One example of this was the \"Goettge Patrol\" during the early days of the Guadalcanal Campaign in 1942 in which an allegedly fake Japanese surrender resulted in more than 20 American deaths. It has been asserted that this incident, along with many other perfidious actions of the Japanese throughout the Pacific War, led to an Allied tendency to shoot the dead or wounded Japanese soldiers and those who were attempting to surrender and not take them as POWs easily.\n\nAt the Dachau Trials, the issue of whether the donning of enemy uniforms to approach the enemy without drawing fire was within the laws of war was established under international humanitarian law at the trial in 1947 of the planner and commander of Operation Greif, Otto Skorzeny. Skorzeny was found not guilty by an American military tribunal of a crime by ordering his men into action in American uniforms. He had passed on to his men the warning of German legal experts, that if they fought in American uniforms, they would be breaking the laws of war, but they probably were not doing so just by wearing American uniforms. During the trial, a number of arguments were advanced to substantiate this position and that the German and U.S. military seem to be in agreement on it. In its judgement, the tribunal noted that the case did not require that the tribunal make findings other than those of guilty or not guilty, so consequently, no safe conclusion could be drawn from the acquittal of all accused.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18517141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18517141", "title": "Restrictive Practices Court", "text": "Restrictive Practices Court\n\nThe Restrictive Trade Practices Act 1956 was an act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom intended to enforce competition. It required that any agreement between companies that restricted trading should be placed on a public register unless granted exemption by the Secretary of State. Changes to an agreement, including its ending, were required to be notified and no agreement could be brought into force before appearing on the register.\n\nThe registrar could refer any agreements which appeared to operate against the public interest to the Restrictive Practices Court, a senior court of record in the United Kingdom. Though the Court was overhauled in 1976, by the end of the century, the legislation was perceived as increasingly out of line with Articles 81 and 82 of the Treaty of Rome. The Court was gradually replaced by a new judicial regime under the Competition Act 1998 and Enterprise Act 2002 and was ultimately disestablished on 10 March 2013.\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "13462986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13462986", "title": "Russian Business Network", "text": "Russian Business Network\n\nThe Russian Business Network (commonly abbreviated as RBN) is a multi-faceted cybercrime organization, specializing in and in some cases monopolizing personal identity theft for resale. It is the originator of MPack and an alleged operator of the now defunct Storm botnet. \n\nThe RBN, which is notorious for its hosting of illegal and dubious businesses, originated as an Internet service provider for child pornography, phishing, spam, and malware distribution physically based in St. Petersburg, Russia. By 2007, it developed partner and affiliate marketing techniques in many countries to provide a method for organized crime to target victims internationally.\n\nAccording to internet security company VeriSign, RBN was registered as an internet site in 2006.\n\nInitially, much of its activity was legitimate. But apparently the founders soon discovered that it was more profitable to host illegitimate activities and started hiring its services to criminals. \n\nThe RBN has been described by VeriSign as \"the baddest of the bad\". It offers web hosting services and internet access to all kinds of criminal and objectionable activities, with individual activities earning up to $150 million in one year. Businesses that take active stands against such attacks are sometimes targeted by denial of service attacks originating in the RBN network. RBN has been known to sell its services to these operations for $600 per month.\n\nThe business is difficult to trace. It is not a registered company, and its domains are registered to anonymous addresses. Its owners are known only by nicknames. It does not advertise, and trades only in untraceable electronic transactions. \n\nOne increasingly known activity of the RBN is delivery of exploits through fake anti-spyware and anti-malware, for the purposes of PC hijacking and personal identity theft. McAfee SiteAdvisor tested 279 “bad” downloads from malwarealarm.com, mentioned in the Dancho Danchev referenced article, and found that MalwareAlarm is an update of the fake anti-spyware Malware Wiper. The user is enticed to use a “free download” to test for spyware or malware on their PC; MalwareAlarm then displays a warning message of problems on the PC to persuade the unwary web site visitor to purchase the paid version. In addition to MalwareAlarm, numerous instances of rogue software are linked to and hosted by the RBN. \n\nAccording to a since closed Spamhaus report, RBN is “Among the world's worst spammer, malware, phishing and cybercrime hosting networks. Provides 'bulletproof hosting', but is probably involved in the crime too”. Another Spamhaus report states, \"Endless Russian/Ukrainian funded cybercrime hosting [at this network].\" October 13, 2007, RBN was the subject of a \"Washington Post\" article, in which Symantec and other security firms claim RBN provides hosting for many illegal activities, including identity theft and phishing.\n\nThe RBN operates (or operated) on numerous Internet Service Provider (ISP) networks worldwide and resides (resided) on specific IP addresses, some of which have Spamhaus blocklist reports.\n\nIt has been alleged that the RBN's leader and creator, a 24-year-old known as Flyman, is the nephew of a powerful and well-connected Russian politician. Flyman is alleged to have turned the RBN towards its criminal users. In light of this, it is entirely possible that past cyber-terrorism activities, such as the denial of service attacks on Georgia and Azerbaijan in August 2008, may have been co-ordinated by or out-sourced to such an organization. Although this is currently unproven, intelligence estimates suggest this may be the case.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38136163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38136163", "title": "Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs v Rahmatullah", "text": "Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs v Rahmatullah\n\nSecretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs v Yunus Rahmatullah \"[2012] UKSC 48\" was a 2012 judgment of the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom concerning the detention of Yunus Rahmatullah, a Pakistani citizen detained in Iraq, and later Afghanistan, who is alleged to have travelled to Iraq to fight for Al-Qaeda during the Second Iraq War.\n\nYunus Rahmatullah is a Pakistani citizen who was suspected of having travelled to Iraq to become a fighter for Al-Qaeda. He was detained in Iraq by British Special Air Service (SAS) forces in 2004, during the United States' occupation of Iraq. He was transferred to US military custody. Initially the US authorities held him in a prison in Iraq, but subsequently he was transferred to a US-operated prison in Afghanistan without the knowledge of the UK government. These actions were contrary to a 2003 memorandum of understanding between the US and UK, which provided that persons captured in Iraq by the UK and later transferred to US custody could not be subsequently taken out of Iraq without agreement from the UK and that detained persons captured by the UK and transferred to US custody would be returned to the UK upon UK request. On behalf of Rahmatullah, lawyers from the human rights group Reprieve argued that the UK government should apply pressure on the US government to release him and that a writ of habeas corpus issued by the Court of Appeal should apply to him based on the memorandum of understanding. Lawyers for the UK government argued that they had no power to direct the United States to release Rahmatullah.\n\nThe Supreme Court ruled that the detention of Rahamatullah at the US Bagram prison in Afghanistan was unlawful and at least \"prima facie\" a breach of Article 49 of the Geneva Convention.\n\nHowever, by a 5-2 majority the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom dismissed the appeal of the human rights group Reprieve, stating:\n\nHowever, in a dissenting judgment Lady Hale and Lord Carnwath stated: \"Where liberty is at stake, it is not the court's job to speculate as to the political sensitivities which may be in play.\"\n\nMr Rahmatullah remains in detention in Afghanistan at Bagram Air Base. Writing in \"The Guardian\" the journalist and lawyer Joshua Rozenberg praises the dissenting judgment of Lady Hale and Lord Carnwath, arguing that the British government should have tried harder to secure Yunus Rahmatullah's release.\n\n"}
{"id": "43115338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43115338", "title": "Swedish Literature Bank", "text": "Swedish Literature Bank\n\nThe Swedish Literature Bank is a non-profit organisation whose objective is making classic Swedish literature and literary criticism freely available in digital editions. It is a collaboration between the Swedish Academy, the National Library of Sweden, the Royal Swedish Academy of Letters, History and Antiquities, the Swedish Language Bank at the University of Gothenburg, the Swedish Society for Belles-Lettres, and the Society of Swedish Literature in Finland.\n\nThe Swedish Literature Bank publishes Swedish literary classics from the Middle Ages on, including \"minor classics\" and major historical and religious works, in four digital formats: searchable e-text, facsimiles of the original edition, PDF files and EPUB files. The texts are based either on the first edition or on a subsequent scholarly edition. Authoritative presentations of authors and genres are also provided.\n\nThe initiative began after a suggestion by Sven Lindqvist in the early 2000s. The Swedish Academy held a seminar exploring the idea in 2002, and in 2004 a two-year pilot project began with funding from the Bank of Sweden Tercentenary Foundation. The project foundation was then organised in 2006. Starting at a time of rapid expansion of Swedish higher education institutions, the project was designed to address the problem of the many new Swedish colleges needing to set up libraries with expensive older literature, and to make older Swedish literature freely available anywhere in the world. In contrast to the older Project Runeberg, where anyone can help proofread the scans, the Literature Bank texts are proofread by scholars. They are chosen by an editorial committee, around certain themes such as works by female writers, older crime fiction and science fiction, and from suggestions by the public. The project has been described as \"a Swedish mini-variant of Google Library\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1708961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1708961", "title": "Texas International Law Journal", "text": "Texas International Law Journal\n\nThe Texas International Law Journal (abbreviated as TILJ) is a student-edited law journal at the University of Texas School of Law.\n\nThe journal was created in the wake of the Bay of Pigs Invasion and the Cuban Missile Crisis with the encouragement and support of E. Ernest Goldstein. It published its first issue in January 1965 and has been in continuous publication since. It has attracted noted authors, including former Supreme Court of the United States Justice William O. Douglas. Over the years, it has been cited by courts at all levels, including the Texas Supreme Court.\n\nAdditionally, the journal organizes a symposium every year, with speakers from the United States and around the world. Recent titles include: \"A Conference on the Military Commissions Act\", \"Representing Culture, Translating Human Rights\", \"Judicialization and Globalization of the Judiciary\", \"Symposium on International Litigation Honoring Russell J. Weintraub\", \"International Symposium in Honor of Hans Baade: Teaching and Practicing Law in the 21st Century\", \"Energy and International Law: Development, Litigation, and Regulation\", \"Human Reproduction and International Law\", and \"International Bankruptcy Law: Comparative and Transnational Approaches\".\n"}
{"id": "55133150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55133150", "title": "Treaty of Lisbon (1859)", "text": "Treaty of Lisbon (1859)\n\nThe Treaty of Lisbon of 1859 is a treaty signed between Portugal and the Netherlands on April 20, 1859. The treaty fixed the border between the Portuguese and the Dutch colonies in the Indonesian Archipelago, between Portuguese Timor and the Dutch East Indies.\nPedro V of Portugal was represented by António Maria de Fontes Pereira de Melo while William III of the Netherlands was represented by Maurits Jan Heldewier, \"Chargé d'affaires\" of the Netherlands.\n"}
{"id": "34925633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34925633", "title": "United States v. Ivanov", "text": "United States v. Ivanov\n\nUnited States v. Ivanov was an American court case addressing subject-matter jurisdiction for computer crimes performed by Internet users outside of the United States against American businesses and infrastructure. In trial court, Aleksey Vladimirovich Ivanov of Chelyabinsk, Russia was indicted for conspiracy, computer fraud, extortion, and possession of illegal access devices; all crimes committed against the Online Information Bureau (OIB) whose business and infrastructure were based in Vernon, Connecticut.\n\nIvanov moved to dismiss the indictment, claiming that the court lacked subject-matter jurisdiction, arguing that \"because he was physically located in Russia when the offenses were committed, he can not be charged with violations of United States law.\" The court denied Ivanov's motion, \"first, because the intended and actual detrimental effects of Ivanov's actions in Russia occurred within the United States, and second, because each of the statutes under which Ivanov was charged with a substantive offense was intended by Congress to apply extraterritorially.\"\n\nIn a later ruling, Ivanov pleaded guilty to several crimes, including computer intrusion and computer fraud, and was sentenced to 48 months in prison followed by 3 months of supervised release.\n\nIvanov attracted FBI attention in the Fall of 1999, when internet service provider (ISP) Speakeasy discovered their network had been compromised and informed the Seattle branch of the FBI. In early 2000, OIB also detected an attack and notified the FBI in Connecticut. Between late 1999 and early 2000, other large Internet corporations including CD Universe, Yahoo, and Ebay also experienced similar attacks to Speakeasy and OIB. Computer forensics determined the Internet traffic for all attacks originated from the same machine in Russia. After linking his online alias \"subbsta\" and his resume, the FBI determined Ivanov's identity and initiated a sting operation to lure him to the United States for arrest.\n\nThe FBI constructed a false computer security company, Invita, in Seattle, Washington and invited Ivanov to interview for a position on November 10, 2000. Ivanov's interview involved hacking an FBI controlled honeypot. While Ivanov was hacking the FBI honeypot, all keystrokes and network traffic were recorded as potential evidence. In addition, the FBI made video and audio recordings of the entire interview process. After Ivanov successfully gained access to the FBI honeypot, he was arrested. The FBI used the recorded keystrokes and network traffic log to access the intermediary computers Ivanov used in Russia.\n\nWhen the FBI accessed Ivanov's machines, they found folders with data corresponding to the companies he had remotely attacked. Over 2.3 GB of data was recovered from Ivanov's machines, including the tools used to gain illegal access and scripts that referenced companies that had been attacked.\n\nIvanov obtained superuser (root) access to OIB machines. By gaining root access to OIB's machines, Ivanov was effectively able to \"control the data, e.g. credit card numbers and merchant account numbers, stored in OIB computers.\" After gaining access to OIB's systems, Ivanov contacted OIB using his online handle \"subbsta\", offering security assistance in exchange for $10,000. OIB refused to pay Ivanov which resulted in a final email: \"now imagine please Somebody hack you network (and not notify you about this), he downloaded Atomic software with more than 300 merchants, transfer money, and after this did 'rm –rf' and after this you company be ruined. I don't want this, and because this I notify you about possible hack in you network, if you want you can hire me and im always check security in you network. What you think about this.\"\n\nWhen brought to trial in Connecticut, Ivanov was indicted on eight counts, six of which Ivanov appealed:\n\nIvanov was subject to up to ninety years in prison if found guilty on all counts.\n\nAfter his indictment, Ivanov filed for a motion to dismiss all charges because \"he was physically located in Russia when the offenses were committed\" and thus \"he can not be charged with violations of United States law.\"\nThe district court denied his appeal following two trains of logic: \"first, because the intended and actual detrimental effects of Ivanov's actions in Russia occurred within the United States, and second, because each of the statutes under which Ivanov was charged with a substantive offense was intended by congress to apply extraterritorially.\"\n\nThe court argued that previous cases provided precedent for applying subject matter jurisdiction extraterritorially, so long as the \"intended and detrimental effects\" occurred within jurisdiction. The court cited \"United States v. Muench\" as stating, \"the intent to cause effects within the United States... makes it reasonable to apply to persons outside United States territory a statute which is not expressly extraterritorial in scope.\" The court also cited \"United States v. Steinberg\" in claiming, \"it has long been a commonplace of criminal liability that a person may be charged in the place where the evil results, even though he is beyond the jurisdiction where he starts the train of events of which the evil is the fruit.\"\n\nThe court then argued that the detrimental effects of Ivanov's attacks indeed took place in the United States, stating, \"the fact the computers were accessed by means of a complex process initiated and controlled from a remote location does not alter the fact that the accessing of the computers, i.e, part of the detrimental effect prohibited by the statute, occurred at the place where the computers were physically located, namely OIB's place of business in Vernon, Connecticut.\"\n\nIn a second argument, the court stated that regardless of the previous logic, \"to each of the statutes under which the defendant has been indicted for a substantive offense, there is clear evidence that the statute was intended to apply extraterritorially.\" The court then enumerated each of Ivanov's alleged offenses, the laws they referenced, and the specific language in the laws that implied extraterritorial application.\n\nFollowing these arguments, the court denied Ivanov's motion to dismiss.\n\nIvanov later pleaded guilty to several of the charges, including computer intrusion and computer fraud, and was sentenced to 48 months in prison followed by 3 months of supervised release.\n\nIvanov's crimes were not limited to Connecticut. He was also prosecuted and convicted in Washington, New Jersey, and California for similar crimes. In total, Ivanov was tried in five district courts, more than any other case listed on the United States Department of Justice listing of computer crimes.\n\nAlthough the court ruled that the laws which Ivanov violated already extended extraterritorially, the USA PATRIOT Act increased the scope of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act to expressly cover machines outside the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "57873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57873", "title": "Wilhelm Canaris", "text": "Wilhelm Canaris\n\nWilhelm Franz Canaris (1 January 1887 – 9 April 1945) was a German admiral and chief of the \"Abwehr\", the German military intelligence service, from 1935 to 1944. Initially a supporter of Adolf Hitler, by 1939 he had turned against the Nazis as he felt Germany would lose another major war. During World War II he was among the military officers involved in the clandestine opposition to Nazi Germany leadership. He was executed in Flossenbürg concentration camp for high treason as the Nazi regime was collapsing.\n\nCanaris was born on 1 January 1887 in Aplerbeck (now a part of Dortmund) in Westphalia, the son of Carl Canaris, a wealthy industrialist, and his wife, Auguste (née Popp). Canaris believed that his family was related to the 19th century Greek admiral, freedom fighter, and politician Constantine Kanaris, a belief that influenced his decision to join the Imperial German Navy. While on a visit to Corfu, he was given a portrait of the Greek hero that he always kept in his office. However, according to Richard Bassett, a genealogical investigation in 1938 revealed that his family was actually of Northern Italian descent, originally called Canarisi, and had lived in Germany since the 17th century. His name was of Italian origin, as was later shown in an elaborate family tree. His grandfather had converted from Catholicism to Lutheranism.\n\nIn 1905, at the age of seventeen, Canaris joined the Imperial Navy and by the outbreak of the First World War in 1914 was serving as an intelligence officer on board the cruiser SMS \"Dresden\", a light cruiser he had been assigned to in December 1911. This was the only warship that managed to evade the Royal Navy for a prolonged period during the Battle of the Falkland Islands of December 1914, largely due to Canaris' skilful evasion tactics. After the Battle of Más a Tierra, the immobilized \"Dresden\" anchored in Cumberland Bay, Robinson Crusoe Island and contacted Chile with regard to internment. While in the bay, Royal Navy ships approached and shelled the \"Dresden\". The crew scuttled the ship. Most of the crew was interned in Chile in March 1915, but in August 1915, Canaris escaped by using his fluency in Spanish. With the help of some German merchants he was able to return to Germany in October 1915. On the way, he called at several ports, including Plymouth in Great Britain.\n\nCanaris was then given intelligence work as a result of having come to the attention of German naval intelligence (likely due to his clever escape from Chile). German plans to establish intelligence operations in the Mediterranean were under way and Canaris seemed a good fit for this role. Eventually he was sent to Spain, where in Madrid his task was to provide clandestine reconnaissance over enemy shipping movements and to establish a supply service for the U-boats operating in the Mediterranean Sea. After being assigned to the Inspectorate of Submarines by the Naval Staff on 24 October 1916, he took up training for duty as a U-boat commander and graduated from Submarine School on 11 September 1917. He ended the war as a celebrated U-boat commander from late 1917 in the Mediterranean and was credited with a number of sinkings, even coming to the attention of the Kaiser. As a result of his exploits in Spain, he was awarded the Iron Cross First Class. Canaris spoke six languages with fluency, one of which was English. As a naval officer of the old school, he had great respect for Great Britain's Royal Navy, despite the rivalry between the two nations.\n\nDuring the German Revolution of 1918–19, Canaris helped organise the formation of \"Freikorps\" paramilitary units in order to suppress the Communist revolutionary movements that were attempting to spread the ideals of the Russian Revolution into central European nations. He was also a member of the military court that tried (and mostly acquitted) those involved in the assassination of the leftist revolutionaries Karl Liebknecht and Rosa Luxemburg. Also during this period, he was appointed to the adjutancy of defence minister Gustav Noske. In 1919, he married Erika Waag, also the child of an industrialist, with whom he had two children.\n\nIn the spring of 1924, Canaris was sent to Osaka, Japan, to supervise a secret U-boat construction program in direct violation of the Treaty of Versailles. When that project was shelved by Vice Admiral Adolf Zenker in favor of a more cooperative relationship with the British, Canaris began making deals, aided by the son of a powerful German shipping line, Captain Walter Lohmann — they negotiated with Spanish merchants, German industrialists, some Argentinian venture capitalists, and the Spanish navy so the Germans could continue their clandestine naval activities. Unfortunately for Canaris, he made some enemies within Germany during the course of his secret business and intelligence negotiations, partially as a consequence of the bankruptcy incurred by the film-maker Phoebus in his dealings with Lohmann. Suddenly, the former involvement with the \"Liebknecht affair\" re-emerged and placed Canaris in an unfavourable light, which ended up costing him his position in Spain. Instead, he was sent to Wilhelmshaven. From his new post, Canaris haplessly discovered that Lohmann's \"investments\" had cost upwards of twenty-six billion marks in total losses. Sometime in 1928, Canaris was removed from his intelligence post and began two years of conventional naval service aboard the training cruiser \"Schlesien\", becoming captain of the vessel on 1 December 1932. Just two months later, Adolf Hitler became Germany's new Chancellor. Enthused by this development, Canaris was known to give lectures about the virtues of Nazism to his crew aboard the \"Schlesien\".\n\nDetached from the previous government of Weimar whose Republican principles never appealed to Canaris, he looked to the Nazi Party to shape the future. Two things stood out for Canaris about the Nazis; one, they represented a return to state-centered authoritarian government led by a charismatic leader (which he favored) and two, the National Socialists were determined to throw off the shackles of the Versailles Treaty. Hitler proselytized a return to world-power status (which for him, implied constructing a super-fleet) through the preservation of a virtuous soldier-based society, a \"community under arms.\" It is worth recalling that during the post-World War 1 turmoil in Germany, when the Weimar government was fledgling, Canaris helped establish home-guard units in contravention of Versailles, sympathized with the \"Freikorps\" movement, and participated in the Kapp Putsch.\n\nAnother aspect of the Nazis which attracted Canaris was their views on Communism. Many of his friends joined the Nazi crusade and Canaris \"likewise came to be regarded as an enthusiastic National Socialist.\" Former SS general Werner Best once described Canaris as an \"inveterate nationalist\", correspondingly asserting that he (Canaris) felt the Nazis were much better \"than anything that had gone before.\" Even after the Röhm putsch, Canaris \"preached wholehearted cooperation with the new regime.\" Canaris once said, \"we officers...should always recognize that without the Führer and his NSDAP, the restoration of German military greatness and military strength would not have been possible...the officer's duty is to be a living example of National Socialism and make the German Wehrmacht (armed forces) reflect the fulfillment of National Socialist ideology. That must be our grand design.\"\n\nTaking a position as the fortress commander at Swinemünde on 29 September 1934, Canaris seemed to be near the end of his career as he settled into a sort of \"provincial exile\" with his family. Then in short order, Canaris caught wind of the dispute in the Reichswehr Ministry over the impending successor to the \"Abwehr\" chief Captain Conrad Patzig, who was forced to resign. Patzig recommended Canaris as his replacement due to his outstanding service record and because he considered him best suited for the position due to his previous experience in intelligence operations. His aspirations were quickly being realized and in his zeal for his new job, Canaris paid \"little heed\" to the warnings from Patzig about the \"fiendish\" machinations of the NSDAP's party and police organs. These admonitions principally concerned Reinhard Heydrich, head of the SS intelligence service known as the \"Sicherheitsdienst\" (SD), since he was not well-disposed towards the \"Abwehr\", believing as he did that Germany's defeat during the First World War was attributable to military intelligence failures by the organization; moreover, Heydrich had aspirations to oversee all aspects of political intelligence-gathering for Germany.\n\nOn 1 January 1935, a little less than two years after Hitler took total control of the German government in 1933, Canaris was made head of the \"Abwehr\", Germany's official military intelligence agency. Records suggest that Canaris was approved in his role as \"Abwehr\" chief as a compromise candidate since commander-in-chief of the German navy Admiral Erich Raeder (a staunch navy man) was initially opposed to his appointment but caved when Patzig manipulated the situation by suggesting an army officer for the post if Canaris was rejected. Given the seemingly amicable relationship between SD chief Heydrich and Canaris which existed at the time according to former \"Abwehr\" secretary, Inge Haag, it is possible that Heydrich supported the installment of Canaris as head of the \"Abwehr\", at least based on their behavior toward one another. The two remained \"friendly\" rivals, although Canaris considered Heydrich a \"brutal fanatic\" and was likewise aware that Heydrich's SD constantly monitored the telephone traffic of the \"Abwehr\". Heydrich was suspicious of Canaris and referred to him as a \"wily old fox\", cautioning his colleagues never to underestimate the man. Just a few weeks into his role as head of the \"Abwehr\", he met with Heydrich and some of his officials to divide out intelligence operations between the \"Abwehr\", Gestapo, and SD. It is clear from sources that at this point, Canaris was a true devotee to Hitler according to former Gestapo officer, Gerhard Fischer, who claimed that the Führer's gentlemanly relationship with Canaris converted the Admiral into \"an extreme exponent of Hitlerism.\"\n\nStarting in May 1935, Canaris first donned the uniform of a rear admiral, a promotion which coincided his responsibility for shielding Germany's burgeoning rearmament program from enemy counter-intelligence agents. This meant a significant expansion of the \"Abwehr\". Enlargement of the \"Abwehr\" mission brought Canaris into contact with \"counterespionage virtuoso\", Major Rudolf Bamler, who assisted him in establishing an extensive surveillance web over munitions factories, seaports, the armed forces, and the media. During the period between 1935–1937, Canaris expanded the \"Abwehr\" staff from a mere 150 people to nearly a thousand. Meeting with Heydrich again on 21 December 1936, the two men signed a document which came to be known in their orbit as the \"Ten Commandments\"; the agreement clarified the respective areas of counter-espionage responsibilities between the Gestapo and the \"Abwehr\".\n\nAccording to biographer Heinz Höhne, Canaris subscribed to most of Hitler's views. Hitler's nationalism, his social-Darwinist beliefs, his opposition to the Versailles Treaty, his belief in rebuilding a Greater German Reich, and his anti-Semitic ideology appealed to the \"Abwehr\" chief. Prompted by anti-Semitism, Canaris first suggested the use of the Star of David to identify Jews during 1935–1936, setting them apart from German citizens within the Reich, heralding their isolation, presaging their compulsory resettlement, and ultimately leading to their physical annihilation.\n\nDuring the Spanish Civil War of 1936 to 1939, Germany signed an international agreement to embargo arms to the warring factions, the Nationalists of Francisco Franco and the Republicans. In fact, Germany provided aid to the fascist Franco's side, with Canaris using his contacts at England's Vickers armaments manufacturing company to help supply the Nationalists with weapons.\n\nOne month before Hitler's annexation of Austria (known as the Anschluss), Canaris put the \"Abwehr\" into action, personally overseeing deception operations designed to give the Austrians the impression of what appeared to be substantial German military preparations for an impending act of aggression. Despite that the sham action did not move the Austrian Chancellor, Schuschnigg was forced to resign when German troops marched into Austria, which was followed by its official annexation into Greater Germany (\"Grossdeutschland\") on 13 March 1938. At this development however, Canaris began spending more and more time in the company of Hans Oster and also began formulating ways to forestall or prevent a European war. Among the first to arrive in Vienna, Canaris had a special team seize records from the Austrian archives since he was worried there might be references to his Spanish Civil War arms supplier connections in London. He also absorbed as much of the Austrian intelligence service as he could into the \"Abwehr\", while avoiding those who were Nazi converts already.\n\nCanaris was disturbed by Hitler's intention to absorb Czechoslovakia as were others, all of them fearing another European war; this resulted in the formation of a conspiratorial group consisting of members of the German Foreign Office and ranking members of the military. This assemblage included General Ludwig Beck, the Foreign Office's state secretary Ernst von Weizsäcker, General Erwin von Witzleben and Admiral Canaris.\n\nCanaris and his associates were not necessarily committed to the overthrow of Hitler's regime, but they were loosely allied to another, more radical group, the \"anti-Nazi\" faction led by Colonel Hans Oster and Hans Bernd Gisevius who wanted to use the crisis as an excuse for executing a \"putsch\" to overthrow the Nazi regime. The most audacious plan contemplated by Canaris, in collaboration with Ewald von Kleist-Schmenzin, was to capture and unseat Hitler and the entire Nazi Party before the invasion of Czechoslovakia. At this particular moment, Kleist visited Britain secretly and discussed the situation with British MI6 and some high-ranking politicians. There, the name of Canaris became widely known as Kleist's executive hand in the event of an anti-Nazi plot. The high-ranking German military leaders believed that if Hitler invaded Czechoslovakia, or any other country, Britain would declare war on Germany. MI6 was of the same opinion. The British declaration of war would have given the General Staff, in their belief, both the pretext and support for an overthrow of Hitler, which many of them were planning given the prevailing \"anti-war sentiment of the German people.\"\n\nThe reaction of the British government to Hitler's demands on the Sudetenland was more cautious. At a meeting with Hitler in Munich, British Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain and French Prime Minister Édouard Daladier chose diplomacy over war. The Munich Agreement was thus a severe disappointment for Kleist and Canaris. It gave Hitler's reputation an important boost and his popularity soared, as he appeared to have brought peace. However, Hitler was scornful of his generals for resisting his plans, since he had wanted war. Hermann Göring fell out of favor with him for negotiating peace, yet Hitler's drive for war remained unabated despite the Western powers having granted him concessions. Canaris was relieved that war was averted and sought to re-establish contact with Hitler since many of the \"Abwehr\" reports submitted on the Sudeten crisis had proven grossly inaccurate. To Oster and his circle, Canaris suddenly appeared recommitted to Hitler.\n\nIn January 1939, Canaris manufactured the \"Dutch War Scare\" that gripped the British government. By 23 January 1939, the British government received information that Germany intended to invade the Netherlands in February 1939 with the aim of using Dutch airfields to launch a strategic bombing offensive intended to achieve a \"knock-out\" blow against Britain by razing British cities to the ground. All this information was false, and it was intended by Canaris to achieve a change in British foreign policy. In this, Canaris was successful, and the \"Dutch War Scare\" played a major role in causing Chamberlain to make the \"continental commitment\" by sending a large British ground force to the defence of France in February 1939.\n\nIn 1937, Canaris created a new office of air intelligence in the \"Abwehr\" and assigned \"Hauptmann\" Nikolaus Ritter of the Luftwaffe to be the chief of I. Luft (Chief of Air Intelligence). Ritter, who had lived in the United States for 12 years, was given primary authority over \"Abwehr\" agents operating in the Americas and Great Britain. Canaris instructed Ritter to contact a former spymaster he knew from the First World War who was living in New York, Fritz Joubert Duquesne. Back in 1931, Ritter had met Duquesne in New York, and the two spies reconnected in New York on 3 December 1937. Ritter also met with Herman W. Lang, a spy who operated under the code name: PAUL.\n\nHerman Lang worked as a machinist, draftsman, and assembly inspector for the Carl L. Norden Company in New York where he had been contracted to manufacture an advanced, top secret military bomber part, the Norden bomb-sight. He provided the \"Abwehr\" a large drawing of the bomb-sight and later went to Germany to work on and finish an improved version. While in Germany, Lang met with Canaris and Hermann Göring. Ritter employed several other successful agents across the U.S., but he also made the mistake of recruiting a man who would later become a double agent for the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), William Sebold. On 8 February 1940, Ritter sent Sebold to New York under the alias of Harry Sawyer and instructed him to set up a shortwave radio-transmitting station to establish contact with the German shortwave station abroad. Sebold was also instructed to use the code name TRAMP and to contact a fellow agent code named DUNN, Fritz Duquesne.\n\nOn 28 June 1941, following a two-year investigation, the FBI arrested Col. Duquesne and 32 Nazi spies on charges of relaying secret information on U.S. weaponry and shipping movements to Germany. On 2 January 1942, less than a month after the U.S. was attacked by Japan at Pearl Harbor and Germany declared war on the United States, the 33 members of the Duquesne Spy Ring were sentenced to serve a total of more than 300 years in prison. They were found guilty in what historian Peter Duffy said in 2014 is \"still to this day the largest espionage case in the history of the United States\". One German spymaster later commented that the ring's roundup delivered 'the death blow' to their espionage efforts in the United States. J. Edgar Hoover called his FBI swoop on Duquesne's ring the greatest spy roundup in U.S. history. In a 1942 memo to his superiors, Canaris reported on the importance of several of his captured spies by noting their valued contributions, and he writes that Duquesne \"delivered valuable reports and important technical material in the original, including U.S. gas masks, radio-controlled apparatus, leak proof fuel tanks, television instruments, small bombs for airplanes versus airplanes, air separator, and propeller-driving mechanisms. Items delivered were labeled 'valuable', and several 'good' and 'very good.\n\nArthur Owens, a Welsh nationalist, was briefly employed by MI6, the British Secret Intelligence Service, to spy on German shipyards in 1936. However, in 1938, he was so enticed by the attractive woman the \"Abwehr\" provided him that he switched his allegiance. Owens operated as an \"Abwehr\" agent under Nikolaus Ritter and went by the code name: JOHNNY O'BRIEN. Owens later had second thoughts about his work with the \"Abwehr\" and he became a key agent in \"Twenty [XX] Committee\", Britain's complex counter-espionage and deception operation. Operating under the code name SNOW, Owens provided MI5 the names of covert spies in Britain. MI5 gave the captured spies a choice of becoming double-agents, or face death by firing squad. Several former \"Abwehr\" agents chose to work for Britain and delivered vital information to the Allies, including details about troop movements and the keys to cracking German codes.\n\nOver the course of the war, the Twenty Committee grew to about 120 double-agents. However, in 1941, the Twenty Committee almost abandoned its double-agents when it found that Owens was also double-crossing MI5. However, when the \"Abwehr\" failed to take any demonstrable countermeasures, the Twenty Committee chose instead to provide its double-agents with disinformation to pass on to Germany. After the war, it was discovered that Ritter had known that the cover for the agents in Britain had been compromised, but due to the fear of repercussions, he did not inform Canaris.\n\nAfter the outbreak of war between Germany and Poland in September 1939, Canaris visited the front, where he saw the devastation rendered by the German military—seeing Warsaw in flames nearly brought him to tears and it was reported that he exclaimed, \"our children's children will have to bear the blame for this\". He also witnessed examples of the war crimes committed by the \"Einsatzgruppen\" of the SS, including the burning of the synagogue in Będzin with 200 Polish Jews inside. Additionally, he received reports from \"Abwehr\" agents about several incidents of mass murder throughout Poland. Canaris visited Hitler's headquarters train on 12 September 1939, at the time in Province of Silesia, to register his objection to the atrocities. Canaris told chief of the \"Oberkommando der Wehrmacht\" (Supreme Command of the Armed Forces) Wilhelm Keitel about the \"extensive shootings ... and that the nobility and clergy were to be exterminated\" to which Keitel informed him that Hitler had already \"decided\" the matter. Keitel warned Canaris to go no further with his protest, as the detailed plan of atrocities came directly from Hitler.\n\nCanaris began working more actively to overthrow Hitler's régime, although he also cooperated with the SD to create a decoy. This made it possible for him to pose as a trusted man for some time. He was promoted to the rank of full Admiral in January 1940. With his subordinate Erwin Lahousen, he attempted in the autumn of 1940 to form a circle of like-minded Wehrmacht officers. At the time, this had little success. When the OKW decrees regarding the brutal treatment of Soviet prisoners-of-war related to the Commissar Order came to the attention of Canaris in mid-September 1941, he registered another complaint. Keitel reminded Canaris that he was thinking in terms of \"chivalrous war\" which did not apply, as this was \"a matter of destroying a world ideology\". Meanwhile, the complaints and Canaris' apparent squeamishness were noted by Heydrich and added to his file on the \"political unreliability\" of the \"Abwehr\". Canaris also worked to thwart the proposed Operation Felix, the German plan to seize Gibraltar. \nAt a conference of senior officers in Berlin, in December 1941, Canaris is quoted as saying \"the \"Abwehr\" has nothing to do with the persecution of Jews. ... no concern of ours, we hold ourselves aloof from it\". It has been speculated that Canaris was in contact with British intelligence during this time, despite the war between the two countries. It is thought that during Operation Barbarossa, the invasion of the Soviet Union, he received a detailed report of all the enemy positions that was known only to the British. The head of MI6, Stewart Menzies, who shared Canaris' views opposing Communism, praised Canaris' courage and bravery at the end of the war. In December 1940, Hitler sent Canaris to Spain to conclude an agreement (through strong coercion if necessary) with Franco for Spanish support in the war against the Allies, but instead of prompting the Spaniard to acquiesce to Hitler's desire, Canaris reported that Franco would not commit Spanish forces until Great Britain was defeated. Conversations from this period between Franco and Admiral Canaris remain a mystery since none were recorded, but the Spanish government later expressed gratitude to the widow of Canaris at the conclusion of the Second World War by paying her a pension.\n\nIn June 1942, Canaris sent eight \"Abwehr\" agents to the East Coast of the United States as part of Operation Pastorius. The mission was to sabotage American economic targets and demoralise the civilian population inside the United States. However, two weeks later, all were arrested by the FBI thanks to two \"Abwehr\" agents who betrayed the mission. Because the \"Abwehr\" agents were arrested in civilian clothes, they were subject to court martial by a military tribunal in Washington, D.C. All were found guilty and sentenced to death. Two others who cooperated with the FBI received sentences of life imprisonment instead. The others were executed by the electric chair in the District of Columbia jail. Due to the embarrassing failure of Operation Pastorius, no further sabotage attempt was ever made in the United States.\n\nAfter 1942, Canaris visited Spain frequently and was probably in contact with British agents from Gibraltar. In 1943, while in occupied France, Canaris is said to have made contact with British agents. He was conducted blindfolded to the Convent of the Nuns of the Passion of our Blessed Lord, 127 Rue de la Santé, where he met the local head of the British Intelligence Services, code name \"Jade Amicol\", in reality Colonel Claude Olivier. Canaris wanted to know the terms for peace if Germany got rid of Hitler. Churchill's reply, sent to him two weeks later, was simple: \"Unconditional surrender\".\n\nDuring Heydrich's posting in Prague, a serious incident put him and Canaris in open conflict. Heydrich requested that Canaris put the \"Abwehr\" under SD and SS control. Canaris appeared to retreat and handled the situation diplomatically, but there was no immediate effect on the \"Abwehr\" for the time being. In fact, Canaris had established another two links with MI6—one via Zürich, and the other via Spain and Gibraltar. It is also possible that Vatican contacts provided a third route to his British counterparts.\n\nCanaris also intervened to save a number of victims from Nazi persecution, including Jews, by getting them out of harm's way; he was instrumental, for example, in getting five hundred Dutch Jews to safety in May 1941. Many such people were given token training as \"Abwehr\" \"agents\" and then issued papers allowing them to leave Germany. One notable person he is said to have assisted was the then Lubavitcher Rebbe in Warsaw, Rabbi Yosef Yitzchok Schneersohn. This has led Chabad Lubavitch to campaign for his recognition as a Righteous Gentile by the Yad Vashem Holocaust memorial.\n\nThe evidence that Canaris was playing a double game grew and, at the insistence of Heinrich Himmler, Hitler dismissed Canaris and abolished the \"Abwehr\" in February 1944. The functions of the \"Abwehr\" were taken over by the \"Ausland-SD\", part of the Reich Main Security Office (RSHA) and led by SS-\"Brigadeführer\" Walter Schellenberg. Previous areas once the responsibility of the \"Abwehr\" were divided between Gestapo chief Heinrich Müller and Schellenberg. Some weeks later, Canaris was put under house arrest. He was released from house arrest in June 1944 to take up a post in Berlin as the head of the Special Staff for Mercantile Warfare and Economic Combat Measures (HWK). The HWK coordinated resistance to the allied economic blockade of Germany.\n\nCanaris was arrested on 23 July 1944 on the basis of the interrogation of his successor at Military Intelligence, Georg Hansen. Schellenberg respected Canaris and was convinced of his loyalty to the Nazi regime, even though he had been arrested. Hansen admitted his role in the 20 July plot but accused Canaris of being its \"spiritual instigator\". No direct evidence of his involvement in the plot was discovered, but his close association with many of the plotters and certain documents written by him that were considered subversive led to the gradual assumption of his guilt. Two of the men under suspicion as conspirators who were known in Canaris' circle shot themselves which incited activity from the Gestapo to prove he was, at the very least, privy to the plan against Hitler.\n\nInvestigations dragged on inconclusively until April 1945, when orders were received to dispose of various remaining prisoners in the 20 July plot. Canaris' personal diary was discovered and presented to Hitler in early April 1945, implicating him in the conspiracy. Canaris was placed on trial by an SS summary court presided over by Otto Thorbeck with Walter Huppenkothen as prosecutor. He was charged with and found guilty of treason. He was sentenced to death.\n\nTogether with his deputy General Hans Oster, military jurist General Karl Sack, theologian Rev. Dietrich Bonhoeffer and Ludwig Gehre, Canaris was humiliated before witnesses. Canaris was led to the gallows naked and executed on 9 April 1945 at the Flossenbürg concentration camp, just weeks before the end of the war. A prisoner claimed he heard Canaris tap out a coded message on the wall of his cell on the night before his execution, in which he denied he was a traitor and said he acted out of duty to his country. Accompanying Canaris in death on that April day at Flossenbürg (to the background noise of Allied guns making their approach) were Hans Oster and the theologian Bonhoeffer.\n\nErwin von Lahousen and Hans Bernd Gisevius, two of Canaris' main subordinates, survived the war and testified during the Nuremberg trials about Canaris' courage in opposing Hitler. Lahousen recalled a conversation between Canaris and General Wilhelm Keitel (also detailed above) in which Canaris warned Keitel that the German military would be held responsible for the atrocities in Poland. Keitel responded that they had been ordered by Hitler. Keitel, who survived the war, was found guilty of war crimes at Nuremberg and hanged.\n\n"}
{"id": "46504047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46504047", "title": "Ybarra v. Illinois", "text": "Ybarra v. Illinois\n\nAn agent of the Illinois Bureau of Investigation working in Aurora, filed a request for a search warrant on March 1,1976 to search the Aurora Tap Tavern and its bartender for evidence of heroin trafficking, after an informant observed \"on the weekend\" of February 28-29,1976, 15 to 25 packets of tin foil on the person of a bartender only known as \"Greg,\" along with seeing the packets on him and in a drawer behind the bar when he went there on at least 10 other occasions. The informant then claimed that he had used heroin in the past and that tin foil was a common packaging method for heroin. The informant also claimed that from February 28 to February 29, he had a conversation with the bartender and that the bartender told him that he would have heroin for sale on March 1. The Aurora Police Department had previous dealings with this informant, who they considered to be reliable. The judge signed the search warrant, authorizing \"the following person or place: . . . [T]he Aurora Tap Tavern. . . . Also the person of 'Greg,' the bartender, a male white with blondish hair appx. 25 years.\" The warrant authorized the police to search for \"evidence of the offense of possession of a controlled substance,\" to-wit,\n\n\"[h]eroin, contraband, other controlled substances, money, instrumentalities and narcotics, paraphernalia used in the manufacture, processing and distribution of controlled substances.\" \nIn the late afternoon of that day, 7-8 officers proceeded to the tavern. Upon entering the property, the officers announced to all present that they were going to conduct a \"cursory search for weapons.\" One of the officers, Jerome Johnson, conducted a pat-down on all of the 13 customers while the rest of the force focused on extensively searching the property. Later, Johnson came to Ventura Ybarra, the latter standing by a pinball machine. During the first pat-down, the officer felt an object that was described as \"a cigarette pack with objects in it.\" Johnson did not bother to remove it, instead moving on to other patrons. Eventually, Johnson came back to Ybarra and searched him a second time. This time, he removed the cigarette packet from Ybarra's pants' pocket. When Johnson opened the package, he found six packets of tin foil that contained a brown- colored powder that was later identified as heroin. \nAt the arraignment, Ybarra was indicted by a grand jury on the charge of unlawful possession of a controlled substance. Ybarra then filed a motion to suppress against the tin foil of heroin seized from his person. During the hearing on the motion, the prosecution responded by arguing that Section 108-9 of the Illinois Code of Criminal Procedure of 1963 (Ill. Rev. Stat. 1975, ch. 38, par. 108-9), which reads, \"In the execution of the warrant the person executing the same may reasonably detain the search any person in the place at the time:\n\n(a) To protect himself from attack, or\n\n(b) To prevent the disposal or concealment of any instruments, articles or things particularly described in the warrant,\" \njustified the search. \nThe trial court denied the motion, and Ybarra was convicted of heroin possession in a bench trial. He appealed to the Illinois Appellate Court-Second District, which upheld the conviction, reasoning that,\"\n\n\"In the execution of the warrant the person executing the same may reasonably detain the search any person in the place at the time:\n\n(a) To protect himself from attack, or\n\n(b) To prevent the disposal or concealment of any instruments, articles or things particularly described in the warrant.\"\n\nIn substance, the defendant contends the provision of this statute providing that the person executing the warrant may search any person in the place at the time to prevent the disposal of articles or things described in the warrant is a violation of the Fourth Amendment. A similar statute is found in Arizona, Kansas, Georgia and the District of Columbia.\n\nIn support of his position, defendant has cited United States v. Di Re (1948), 332 U.S. 581, 587, 92 L.Ed. 210, 216, 68 S.Ct. 222, 225. We do not find that case applicable to the situation before us. The police officers in that case located, in an automobile, a party previously named by an informant, who allegedly had counterfeit gas coupons. The defendant Di Re was a passenger in the vehicle and was searched and convicted upon the evidence seized from his person. The court in Di Re held that the warrantless arrest and search of defendant's person when he had committed no offense and was merely present in the vehicle was not justified. This case, involving a warrantless search of an automobile passenger, has no real bearing upon the proper application of section 108-9, which deals only with situations involving warrants. Defendant also has cited Stanford v. Texas (1965), 379 U.S. 476, 13 L.Ed.2d 431, 85 S.Ct. 506. In Stanford the court considered a \"general warrant\" which the federal courts have repeatedly held to be invalid under the Fourth Amendment. In Stanford the officers went to the defendant's residence and seized about half of all the books in his house and all of his personal papers, 14 cartons in all. The court held, and rightly so, that no official of the State shall ransack a person's house and seize his books and papers under the unbridled authority of a general warrant. That is not the situation in the case before us as the officers here were conducting a search in a small bar or saloon under a specific warrant for the discovery of heroin and allied paraphernalia.\n\nThe defendant has also cited State v. Mendez (1977), 115 Ariz. 367, 565 P.2d 873, which involved a statute virtually identical to ours. Defendant, who was not named in the search warrant, and not linked to the premises being searched, entered while the search was in progress. The subsequent search of his person, which revealed heroin, was found to be unreasonable. Our case is different because defendant was present when the police first arrived and thus had an opportunity to acquire or conceal the contraband, which police were searching for, upon his person.\n\nIn further support of defendant's position, counsel has cited Willis v. State (1970), 122 Ga. App. 455, 177 S.E.2d 487, which involved a Georgia statute analogous to the Illinois statute. Defendant argues the Georgia courts do not allow the persons of those present to be searched, pursuant to a warrant for the premises, but that other facts and circumstances making it likely that the items are being concealed by them must be present to justify the search of their persons. In Willis the peace officers had a search warrant for an apartment and, in executing the same, the court held that any person present who might reasonably be involved in the crime of possession of illegal drugs was the proper subject of the execution of the warrant. The court observed that the drugs were pills in a small container which might easily be passed from person to person. The court there stated, \"we hold the search not unreasonable under Fourth Amendment standards, and authorized by the terms of the warrant.\" ( 122 Ga. App. 458-59, 177 S.E.2d 487, 489.) The court's further general observation was that such a warrant would not authorize the search of someone in another part of the house; or the search of a person entering the premises such as a postman; or the search where there was no reason to believe the house was being frequented by persons illegally purchasing drugs. The latter is particularly interesting because in the complaint for the search warrant before us the allegation was made that the bar was frequented by persons illegally purchasing drugs. We find Willis is actually supportive of the search of the defendant herein.\n\nIn this connection the observations of the Supreme Court of Washington, in Olympia v. Culp (1925), 136 Wn. 374, 377, 240 P. 360, 361-62, are pertinent.\n\nDefendant further relies on the recent case of People v. Dukes (1977), 48 Ill. App.3d 237, 363 N.E.2d 62. In that case, the police officers were executing a search warrant of premises located on the south side of Chicago when the defendant knocked at the door and entered the apartment. An officer noticed a bulge under the defendant's coat and he was thereupon searched. That search disclosed a gun.\n1\nThe substance of the Dukes case is summed up in the court's statement that interpretation of section 108-9 of the Code of Criminal Procedure:\n\n\"* * * in a manner permitting police officers to search anybody who happens upon premises described in the warrant during the execution of the warrant, would be to give the statute an unacceptably overbroad interpretation.\" ( 48 Ill. App.3d 237, 241, 363 N.E.2d 62, 64.)\n\n2\nThe court found that section 108-9 of the Code of Criminal Procedure did not authorize the search of persons,\n\n\"* * * on the premises described in the warrant without some showing of a connection with those premises, that the police officer reasonably suspected an attack, or that the person searched would destroy or conceal items described in the warrant.\" ( 48 Ill. App.3d 237, 241, 363 N.E.2d 62, 64.)\n\nThe latter phrase is controlling in the case before us.\n1\nThere is no doubt that the six packets of heroin herein could easily be concealed by the defendant and thus thwart the purpose of the warrant authorizing the search for heroin in the premises in question, nor do we find that the defendant was an \"innocent stranger(s) having no connection with the premises\" as stated in Dukes.\n\nExamination of People v. Pugh (1966), 69 Ill.2d 312, 217 N.E.2d 557, discloses a case quite similar to Dukes. In Dukes, of course, the officers were conducting a search or executing a search warrant for the discovery of gambling paraphernalia while in Pugh the subject of the search under the warrant was for narcotics. Probably the distinguishing feature between Pugh and Dukes is that Dukes, in entering the gambling premises, was merely a visitor, while in Pugh the warrant was being executed on the premises and the person of Jessie Pugh when Raymond Pugh entered. While the case does not state that Raymond Pugh was a resident of the premises, the sole issue raised in the case by Raymond Pugh was as to the search of his person. In that respect the appellate court stated, in interpreting section 108-9 of the Code of Criminal Procedure:\n\n1\nIn this connection the comments of Illinois Revision Committee are pertinent, viz., \"In addition, it is clear that the purpose of the warrant would be thwarted were not the officer given the second power found in subsection (b), i.e. to search the person for the things to be seized. The need for this power arises most often in the narcotics cases where disposition is most easily effected.\n\nWe reiterate that each case must be decided upon the facts found therein.\n1\nSuch a warrant obviously would not authorize a \"blanket search\" of persons or patrons found in a large retail or commercial establishment.\n1\nBut in the case before us the search was conducted in a one-room bar where it is obvious from the complaint of the officer seeking the search warrant that heroin was being sold or dispensed.\n\nIn People v. Kielczynski (1970), 130 Ill. App.2d 231, 264 N.E.2d 767, we find again a case of a search warrant being issued for the search of the premises only for gambling equipment. Kielczynski owned the premises which was a gas station and in the execution of the search warrant the defendant's person was searched. Defendant's contention was that the trial court erred in denying his motion to quash the warrant and suppress the evidence. The appellate court, in considering section 108-9 of the Code of Criminal Procedure found that searches of persons on the premises have been found to be reasonable, citing People v. Harrison (1967), 83 Ill. App.2d 90, 226 N.E.2d 418, and People v. Pugh. The court stated,\n\n\"We conclude that the search of defendant's person, who was on the premises described in the instant search warrant, was reasonable and necessary for the execution of the warrant.\" 130 Ill. App.2d 231, 238, 264 N.E.2d 767, 771.\n\nThe Supreme Court of Kansas, in Kansas v. Loudermilk (1972), 208 Kan. 893, 494 P.2d 1174, considered the statute of Kansas which was adopted from section 108-9 of the Illinois Code of Criminal Procedure verbatim, except for the deletion of the words \"any instruments, articles or\" found in section (b) of the Illinois statute. In the execution of a warrant, three parties were present and Loudermilk, the defendant, was searched. In the wallet of Loudermilk heroin was found. The Kansas Supreme Court found that in the execution of a search warrant under the Kansas statute the reasonable detention and search of a person found on the premises does not offend against the Fourth Amendment. The court further found that the Fourth Amendment prohibits only unreasonable searches and seizures and that the search conducted in Loudermilk was not unreasonable. The court further found that the case of Sibron v. New York (1968), 392 U.S. 40, 20 L.Ed.2d 917, 88 S.Ct. 1889 (also cited by the defendant herein), dealing with a warrantless search was not applicable to the search warrant execution situation before it. The court in Loudermilk concluded:\n\n\"Where, as in this case, probable cause to believe that a drug is kept or concealed on certain described premises is established to the satisfaction of a proper magistrate, the search of a person found on the premises in the execution of a search warrant is not only reasonable, but necessary to secure effective enforcement of the Uniform Narcotic Drug Act.\" ( 208 Kan. 893, 898, 494 P.2d 1174, 1178.)\n\nSee also Kansas v. McClelland (1974), 215 Kan. 81, 523 P.2d 357.\n\nProbably the most closely akin case to the one before us is found in United States v. Graves (D.C. App. 1974), 315 A.2d 559. The District of Columbia code is most similar to section 108-9 of the Illinois Code of Criminal Procedure, reading, that an officer executing a warrant for the search of premises, or a vehicle, may search any person therein,\n\n\"* * * to the extent reasonably necessary to find property enumerated in the warrant which may be concealed upon the person * * *.\" ( 315 A.2d 559, 560.)\n\nIn Graves the warrant was for the search of a delicatessen, seeking gambling paraphernalia. In the execution of the warrant there were five or six persons in the delicatessen. The patrons were searched and gambling paraphernalia was found on the person of the defendants Graves and Goldston. The court there relied upon the prior decision of the District of Columbia Court of Appeals in United States v. Miller (D.C. App. 1972), 298 A.2d 34, and held:\n\n\"* * * the officers had sufficient grounds to search the few individuals present when the warrant was executed.\" ( 315 A.2d 559, 561.)\n\nThe District of Columbia Court of Appeals noted that such a warrant would not \"authorize the search of a large number of persons present in a supermarket or other such store when there was no reason to link them to the objects of the search.\" ( 315 A.2d 559, 561.) On the evidence before it, the court found:\n\n\"We do not believe on these facts that a suspect should be allowed to circumvent a warrant to search premises by the simple device of picking up the illegal object and holding it in his hand or placing it in his sock.\" ( 315 A.2d 559, 561.)\n\nThe court concluded the officers acted reasonably in searching the five or six patrons who were found in the delicatessen.\n\n1\nIn summation, we do not find section 108-9 of the Illinois Code of Criminal Procedure to be unconstitutional in its application to the facts before us. We therefore affirm the judgment of the conviction of the defendant herein.\" \n\nIn a 6-3 majority opinion, the Supreme Court ruled that the search of Ybarra was unconstitutional against the Fourth Amendment, along with the Fourteenth Amendment, therefore, his conviction should be overturned. Justice Potter Stewart authored the opinion, arguing that \"Terry v. Ohio\" does not apply in the circumstances surrounding the case because the search warrant was only for the tavern property and the bartender, not their customers. This meant that there was no probable cause to justify the search and arrest of Ybarra. He wrote,\"\n\nNot only was probable cause to search Ybarra absent at the time the warrant was issued, it was still absent when the police executed the warrant. Upon entering the tavern, the\n\nPage 444 U. S. 91\n\npolice did not recognize Ybarra, and had no reason to believe that he had committed, was committing, or was about to commit any offense under state or federal law. Ybarra made no gestures indicative of criminal conduct, made no movements that might suggest an attempt to conceal contraband, and said nothing of a suspicious nature to the police officers. In short, the agents knew nothing in particular about Ybarra except that he was present, along with several other customers, in a public tavern at a time when the police had reason to believe that the bartender would have heroin for sale.\n\nIt is true that the police possessed a warrant based on probable cause to search the tavern in which Ybarra happened to be at the time the warrant was executed. [Footnote 3] But, a person's mere propinquity to others independently suspected of criminal activity does not, without more, give rise to probable cause to search that person. Sibron v. New York, 392 U. S. 40, 392 U. S. 62-63. Where the standard is probable cause, a search or seizure of a person must be supported by probable cause particularized with respect to that person. This requirement cannot be undercut or avoided by simply pointing to the fact that coincidentally there exists probable cause to search or seize another or to search the premises where the person may happen to be. The Fourth and Fourteenth Amendments protect the \"legitimate expectations of privacy\" of persons, not places. See Rakas v. Illinois, 439 U. S. 128, 439 U. S. 138-143, 439 U. S. 148-149; Katz v. United States, 389 U. S. 347, 389 U. S. 351-352.\n\nEach patron who walked into the Aurora Tap Tavern on March 1, 1976, was clothed with constitutional protection against an unreasonable search or an unreasonable seizure. That individualized protection was separate and distinct from\n\nPage 444 U. S. 92\n\nthe Fourth and Fourteenth Amendment protection possessed by the proprietor of the tavern or by \"Greg.\" Although the search warrant, issued upon probable cause, gave the officers authority to search the premises and to search \"Greg,\" it gave them no authority whatever to invade the constitutional protections possessed individually by the tavern's customers. [Footnote 4]\n\nNotwithstanding the absence of probable cause to search Ybarra, the State argues that the action of the police in searching him and seizing what was found in his pocket was nonetheless constitutionally permissible. We are asked to find that the first pat-down search of Ybarra constituted a reasonable frisk for weapons under the doctrine of Terry v. Ohio, 392 U. S. 1. If this finding is made, it is then possible to conclude, the State argues, that the second search of Ybarra was constitutionally justified. The argument is that the pat-down yielded probable cause to believe that Ybarra was carrying narcotics, and that this probable cause constitutionally supported the second search, no warrant being required in light of the exigencies of the situation coupled with the ease with which Ybarra could have disposed of the illegal substance.\n\nWe are unable to take even the first step required by this argument. The initial frisk of Ybarra was simply not supported by a reasonable belief that he was armed and presently\n\nPage 444 U. S. 93\n\ndangerous, a belief which this Court has invariably held must form the predicate to a pat-down of a person for weapons. [Footnote 5] Adams v. Williams, 407 U. S. 143, 407 U. S. 146; Terry v. Ohio, supra at 392 U. S. 21-24, 392 U. S. 27. When the police entered the Aurora Tap Tavern on March 1, 1976, the lighting was sufficient for them to observe the customers. Upon seeing Ybarra, they neither recognized him as a person with a criminal history nor had any particular reason to believe that he might be inclined to assault them. Moreover, as Police Agent Johnson later testified, Ybarra, whose hands were empty, gave no indication of possessing a weapon, made no gestures or other actions indicative of an intent to commit an assault, and acted generally in a manner that was not threatening. At the suppression hearing, the most Agent Johnson could point to was that Ybarra was wearing a 3/4-length lumber jacket, clothing which the State admits could be expected on almost any tavern patron in Illinois in early March. In short, the State is unable to articulate any specific fact that would have justified a police officer at the scene in even suspecting that Ybarra was armed and dangerous.\n\nThe Terry case created an exception to the requirement of probable cause, an exception whose \"narrow scope\" this Court \"has been careful to maintain.\" [Footnote 6] Under that doctrine, a law enforcement officer, for his own protection and safety, may conduct a pat-down to find weapons that he reasonably believes or suspects are then in the possession of the person he has accosted. See, e.g., Adams v. Williams, supra, (at night, in high-crime district, lone police officer approached person believed by officer to possess gun and narcotics). Nothing in Terry can be understood to allow a generalized\n\nPage 444 U. S. 94\n\n\"cursory search for weapons\" or, indeed, any search whatever for anything but weapons. The \"narrow scope\" of the Terry exception does not permit a frisk for weapons on less than reasonable belief or suspicion directed at the person to be frisked, even though that person happens to be on premises where an authorized narcotics search is taking place.\n\nWhat has been said largely disposes of the State's second and alternative argument in this case. Emphasizing the important governmental interest \"in effectively controlling traffic in dangerous, hard drugs\" and the ease with which the evidence of narcotics possession may be concealed or moved around from person to person, the State contends that the Terry \"reasonable belief or suspicion\" standard should be made applicable to aid the evidence-gathering function of the search warrant. More precisely, we are asked to construe the Fourth and Fourteenth Amendments to permit evidence searches of persons who, at the commencement of the search, are on \"compact\" premises subject to a search warrant, at least where the police have a \"reasonable belief\" that such persons \"are connected with\" drug trafficking and \"may be concealing or carrying away the contraband.\"\n\nOver 30 years ago, the Court rejected a similar argument in United States v. Di Re, 332 U. S. 581, 332 U. S. 583-587. In that case, a federal investigator had been told by an informant that a transaction in counterfeit gasoline ration coupons was going to occur at a particular place. The investigator went to that location at the appointed time and saw the car of one of the suspected parties to the illegal transaction. The investigator went over to the car and observed a man in the driver's seat, another man (Di Re) in the passenger's seat, and the informant in the back. The informant told the investigator that the person in the driver's seat had given him counterfeit coupons. Thereupon, all three men were arrested and searched. Among the arguments unsuccessfully advanced by the Government to support the constitutionality of the search of Di Re was the contention that the investigator could\n\nPage 444 U. S. 95\n\nlawfully have searched the car, since he had reasonable cause to believe that it contained contraband, and correspondingly could have searched any occupant of the car because the contraband sought was of the sort \"which could easily be concealed on the person.\" [Footnote 7] Not deciding whether or not, under the Fourth Amendment, the car could have been searched, the Court held that it was \"not convinced that a person, by mere presence in a suspected car, loses immunities from search of his person to which he would otherwise be entitled.\" [Footnote 8]\n\nThe Di Re case does not, of course, completely control the case at hand. There the Government investigator was proceeding without a search warrant, and here the police possessed a warrant authorizing the search of the Aurora Tap Tavern. Moreover, in Di Re, the Government conceded that its officers could not search all the persons in a house being searched pursuant to a search warrant. [Footnote 9] The State makes no such concession in this case. Yet the governing principle in both cases is basically the same, and we follow that principle today. The \"long-prevailing\" constitutional standard of probable cause embodies\n\n\"'the best compromise that has been found for accommodating [the] often opposing interests' in 'safeguard[ing] citizens from rash and unreasonable interferences\n\nPage 444 U. S. 96\n\nwith privacy' and in 'seek[ing] to give fair leeway for enforcing he law in the community's protection.' [Footnote 10]\"\n\nFor these reasons, we conclude that the searches of Ybarra and the seizure of what was in his pocket contravened the Fourth and Fourteenth Amendments. [Footnote 11] Accordingly, the judgment is reversed, and the case is remanded to the Appellate Court of Illinois, Second District, for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.\"\nJustice Warren E. Burger filed a dissenting opinion, joined by Justices William Rehnquist and Harry A. Blackmun, arguing that the Court has violated the rationale of Terry by limiting the scope of to \"a particularized and individualized suspicion\" that a person is armed and dangerous and that although, the warrant narrowed the search to the bartender, the search was valid because the tavern's patrons had a reputation for involvement in the narcotics trade, which made the possibility that they are armed reasonable. Furthermore, he stated that the officer's conduct was by-the-books, by not seizing the cigarette package first and making sure that none of the patrons were armed, and going back to Ybarra and confiscating the package. Finally, he argued that the Court was slowing the police down from suppressing the flow of narcotics into their communities. He wrote,\"\n\nPage 444 U. S. 97\n\nTerry v. Ohio, 392 U. S. 1 (1968). The Court would require a particularized and individualized suspicion that a person is armed and dangerous as a condition to a Terry search. This goes beyond the rationale of Terry, and overlooks the practicalities of a situation which no doubt often confronts officers executing a valid search warrant. The Court's holding is but another manifestation of the practical poverty of the judge-made exclusionary rule.\n\n\"The suppression of truth is a grievous necessity, at best, more especially when, as here, the inquiry concerns the public interest; it can be justified at all only when the opposed private interest is supreme.\"\n\nMcMann v. SEC, 87 F.2d 377, 378 (CA2 1937) (L. Hand, J.). Here, the Court's holding operates as but a further hindrance on the already difficult effort to police the narcotics traffic which takes such a terrible toll on human beings.\n\nThese officers had validly obtained a warrant to search a named person and a rather small, one-room tavern for narcotics. Upon arrival, they found the room occupied by 12 persons. Were they to ignore these individuals and assume that all were unarmed and uninvolved? Given the setting and the reputation of those who trade in narcotics, it does not go too far to suggest that they might pay for such an easy assumption with their lives. The law does not require that those executing a search warrant must be so foolhardy. That is precisely what Mr. Chief Justice Warren's opinion in Terry stands for. Indeed, the Terry Court recognized that a balance must be struck between the privacy interest of individuals and the safety of police officers in performing their duty. I would hold that, when police execute a search warrant for narcotics in a place of known narcotics activity, they may protect themselves by conducting a Terry search. They are not required to assume that they will not be harmed by patrons of the kind of establishment shown here, something quite different from a ballroom at the Waldorf.\n\n\"The officer need not be absolutely certain that the individual is armed; the issue is\n\nPage 444 U. S. 98\n\nwhether a reasonably prudent man in the circumstances would be warranted in the belief that his safety or that of others was in danger.\"\n\nTerry v. Ohio, supra at 392 U. S. 27.\n\nI do not find it controlling that the heroin was not actually retrieved from appellant until the officer returned after completing the first search. The \"cigarette pack with objects in it\" was noticed in the first search. In the \"second search,\" the officer did no more than return to the appellant and retrieve the pack he had already discovered. That there was a delay of minutes between the search and the seizure is not dispositive in this context, where the searching officer made the on-the-spot judgment that he need not seize the suspicious package immediately. He could first reasonably make sure that none of the patrons was armed before returning to appellant. Thus, I would treat the second search and its fruits just as I would had the officer taken the pack immediately upon noticing it, which plainly would have been permissible.\n\nUnder this analysis, I need not reach the validity of the Illinois statute under which the Illinois court sustained the search. Parenthetically, I find the Court's failure to pass on the Illinois statute puzzling in light of the Court's holding that the searches were not authorized by Terry.\"\nJustice William Rehnquist wrote his dissent, stating that the Court's reasoning was faulty, and claimed that since one or more of the tavern's customers could potentially be involved in the narcotics trade, the situation can escalate to dangerous levels due to the possibility of firearms. This, he reasoned, justified the search. Furthermore, he argued that Johnson's testimony during the pre-trial hearing that he had \"felt objects\" in the cigarette box created reasonable suspicion that heroin was in the container, which, he claimed, was within the boundaries of Terry v. Ohio. Finally, he ended by exclaiming that the search, in this case, was incidental, thus not being subject to the warrant requirement and that the search warrant was authorized by a neutral and detached magistrate, and that the officers conducted their duty pursuant to the warrant in an appropriate fashion. He wrote,\"\n\nWhen police arrived at the Aurora Tap, a drab, dimly lit tavern, they found about a dozen or so persons standing or\n\nPage 444 U. S. 99\n\nsitting at the bar. The police announced their purpose and told everyone at the bar to stand for a pat-down search. Agent Jerome Johnson, the only officer to testify in the proceedings below, explained that the initial search was a frisk for weapons to protect the officers executing the warrant. Johnson frisked several patrons, including appellant Ybarra. During this pat-down, Johnson felt \"a cigarette pack with objects in it\" in Ybarra's front pants pocket. He finished frisking the other patrons and then returned to Ybarra. At that time, he frisked Ybarra once again, reached into Ybarra's pocket, and removed the cigarette package that he had felt previously. The package, upon inspection, confirmed the officer's previously aroused suspicion that it contained not cigarettes but packets of heroin.\n\nConfronted with these facts, the Court concludes that the police were without authority under the warrant to search any of the patrons in the tavern and that, absent probable cause to believe that Ybarra possessed contraband, the search of his person violated the Fourth and Fourteenth Amendments. Because I believe that this analysis is faulty, I dissent.\n\nThe first question posed by this case is the proper scope of a policeman's power to search pursuant to a valid warrant. This Court has had very few opportunities to consider the scope of such searches. An early case, Marron v. United States, 275 U. S. 192 (1927), held that police could not seize one thing under a search warrant describing another thing. See also Steele v. United States, 267 U. S. 498 (1925) (warrant authorizing search of building used as a garage empowers police to search connecting rooms). Three other cases, Berger v. New York, 388 U. S. 41 (1967); United States v. Kahn, 415 U. S. 143 (1974); and United States v. Donovan, 429 U. S. 413 (1977), examined the scope of a warrant in the context of electronic surveillance. A number of cases involving warrantless searches have offered dicta on the subject of searches pursuant to a warrant. See, e.g., Bivens v. Six\n\nPage 444 U. S. 100\n\nUnknown Fed. Narcotics Agents, 403 U. S. 388, 403 U. S. 394, n. 7 (1971) (Fourth Amendment confines officer executing a warrant \"strictly within the bounds set by the warrant\"). Closest for our purposes, though concededly not dispositive, is United States v. Di Re, 332 U. S. 581, 332 U. S. 587 (1948), a case involving the warrantless search of an occupant of an automobile. In that case, the Court suggested that police, \"armed with a search warrant for a residence only,\" could not search \"all persons found\" in the residence.\n\nFaced with such a dearth of authority, it makes more sense than ever to begin with the language of the Fourth Amendment itself:\n\n\"The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated, and no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by Oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons or things to be seized.\"\n\nAs often noted, the Amendment consists of two independent clauses joined by the conjunction \"and.\" See, e.g., Go-Bart Co. v. United States, 282 U. S. 344, 282 U. S. 356-357 (1931). The first clause forbids \"unreasonable searches and seizures\" of \"persons, houses, papers, and effects. . . .\" The second clause describes the circumstances under which a search warrant or arrest warrant may issue, requiring specification of the place to be searched as well as the persons or things to be seized.\n\nMuch of the modern debate over the meaning of the Fourth Amendment has focused on the relationship between the reasonableness requirement and the warrant requirement. In particular, the central question has been whether and under what circumstances the police are entitled to conduct \"reasonable\" searches without first securing a warrant. As this Court has summarized:\n\n\"Some have argued that a determination by a magistrate of probable cause as a precondition of any search or\n\nPage 444 U. S. 101\n\nseizure is so essential that the Fourth Amendment is violated whenever the police might reasonably have obtained a warrant but failed to do so. Others have argued with equal force that a test of reasonableness, applied after the fact of search or seizure when the police attempt to introduce the fruits in evidence, affords ample safeguard for the rights in question, so that '[t]he relevant test is not whether it is reasonable to procure a search warrant, but whether the search was reasonable.'\"\n\nCoolidge v. New Hampshire, 403 U. S. 443, 403 U. S. 474 (1971), quoting United States v. Rabinowitz, 339 U. S. 56, 339 U. S. 66 (1950).\n\nMR. JUSTICE STEWART explained the current accommodation of the two clauses in Katz v. United States, 389 U. S. 347, 389 U. S. 357 (1967):\n\n\"[S]earches conducted outside the judicial process, without prior approval by judge or magistrate, are per se unreasonable under the Fourth Amendment -- subject only to a few specifically established and well delineated exceptions.\"\n\nSee also Schneckloth v. Bustamonte, 412 U. S. 218, 412 U. S. 219 (1973). Here, however, we must look to the language of the Fourth Amendment to answer a wholly different question: whether and under what circumstances the police may search a person present at the place named in a warrant. In this regard, the second clause of the Amendment, by itself, offers no guidance. It is merely a set of standards that must be met before a search warrant or arrest warrant may \"issue.\" The restrictions on a policeman's authority to search pursuant to a warrant derive, of course, from the first clause of the Amendment, which prohibits all \"unreasonable\" searches, whether those searches are pursuant to a warrant or not. See Go-Bart Co. v. United States, supra at 282 U. S. 357. Reading the two clauses together, we can infer that some searches or seizures are per se unreasonable: searches extending beyond the place specified, cf. Steele v. United States, supra, or seizures of\n\nPage 444 U. S. 102\n\npersons or things other than those specified. Cf. Marron v. United States, 275 U. S. 192 (1927). No such presumption is available to Ybarra here, however, because the second clause of the Amendment does not require the warrant to specify the \"persons\" to be searched. [Footnote 2/1] As this Court has noted in the context of electronic surveillance,\n\n\"\"[t]he Fourth Amendment requires a warrant to describe only the place to be searched, and the persons or things to be seized,\" not the persons from whom things will be seized.'\"\n\nUnited States v. Kahn, 415 U.S. at 415 U. S. 155, n. 15, quoting United States v. Fiorella, 468 F.2d 688, 691 (CA2 1972). [Footnote 2/2]\n\nNor, as a practical matter, could we require the police to specify in advance all persons that they were going to search at the time they execute the warrant. A search warrant is, by definition, an anticipatory authorization. The police must offer the magistrate sufficient information to confine the search, but must leave themselves enough flexibility to react reasonably to whatever situation confronts them when they enter the premises. An absolute bar to searching persons not named in the warrant would often allow a person to frustrate the search simply by placing the contraband in his pocket. I cannot subscribe to any interpretation of the Fourth Amendment that would support such a result, and I doubt that this Court would sanction it if that precise fact situation were before it.\n\nRecognizing that the authority to search premises must, under some circumstances, include the authority to search\n\nPage 444 U. S. 103\n\npersons present on those premises, [Footnote 2/3] courts and legislatures have struggled to define the precise contours of that power. Some courts, for example, have required an indication that the person searched had a \"connection\" with the premises. See, e.g., Purkey v. Maby, 33 Idaho 281, 193 P. 79 (1920); State v. Massie, 95 W.Va. 233, 120 S.E. 514 (1923). These courts do not explain, however, what form that connection must take or how it might manifest itself to the police. Some States have relied on the Uniform Arrest Act, which allows police executing a warrant to detain and question a suspicious person for up to two hours. See, e.g., State v. Wise, 24 A.2d 292 (Del. Super.1971). Proponents of this approach fail to explain, however, how detention for questioning will produce any hidden contraband. Moreover, in light of the Fourth Amendment's requirement that the warrant specify the person to be \"seized,\" it is at least arguable that this approach substitutes a greater constitutional intrusion for a lesser. Several other States, Illinois included, have simply passed over the constitutional question by identifying the permissible purposes for a search without specifying the circumstances under which that search can be conducted. Illinois' provision, for example, permits an officer to search persons present on the named premises\n\n\"(a) To protect himself from attack, or\"\n\n\"(b) To prevent the disposal or concealment of any instruments, articles or things particularly described in the warrant.\"\n\nIll.Rev.Stat., ch. 38, § 109 (197).\n\nThe generality of these attempts to define the proper limits of such searches does not mean, of course, that no limits exist.\n\nPage 444 U. S. 104\n\nA person does not forfeit the protection of the Fourth Amendment merely because he happens to be present during the execution of a search warrant. To define those limits, however, this Court need look no further than the first clause of that Amendment, and need ask no question other than whether, under all the circumstances, the actions of the police in executing the warrant were reasonable. Significantly, the concept of reasonableness in this context is different from the prevailing concept of reasonableness in the context of warrantless searches. In that latter context, as noted earlier, there is a tension between giving full scope to the authority of police to make reasonable searches and the inferred requirement that the police secure a judicial approval in advance of a search. In the past, we have resolved that tension by allowing \"jealously and carefully drawn\" exceptions to the warrant requirement. See Jones v. United States, 357 U. S. 493, 357 U. S. 499 (1958); Katz v. United States, 389 U.S. at 389 U. S. 357. The rationale for drawing these exceptions closely is obvious. Loosely drawn, they could swallow the warrant requirement itself.\n\nIn this case, however, the warrant requirement has been fully satisfied. As a result, in judging the reasonableness of the search pursuant to the warrant, we need not measure it against jealously drawn exceptions to that requirement. Only once before, to my knowledge, has this Court been relieved of concern for the warrant requirement to the extent that we could give full scope to the notion of reasonableness. In Terry v. Ohio, 392 U. S. 1 (1968), this Court considered the applicability of the Fourth Amendment to an on-the-street encounter between a policeman and three men who had aroused his suspicions. In upholding the ensuing \"stop and frisk,\" this Court found the warrant requirement completely inapposite because \"on-the-spot\" interactions between police and citizens \"historically [have] not been, and as a practical matter could not be, subjected to the warrant procedure.\" Id. at 392 U. S. 20. The conduct in question had to be judged solely\n\nPage 444 U. S. 105\n\nunder \"the Fourth Amendment's general proscription against unreasonable searches and seizures.\" Ibid.\n\nThe petitioner in Terry had sought a \"rigid all-or-nothing model of justification and regulation under the [Fourth] Amendment,\" a model allowing the police to search some individuals completely and other individuals not at all. Such a model, however, would have overlooked \"the utility of limitations upon the scope, as well as the initiation, of police actions as a means of constitutional regulation.\" Id. at 392 U. S. 17. This Court, therefore, opted for a flexible model balancing the scope of the intrusion against its justification:\n\n\"In order to assess the reasonableness of [the challenged search] as a general proposition, it is necessary 'first to focus upon the governmental interest which allegedly justifies official intrusion upon the constitutionally protected interests of the private citizen,' for there is 'no ready test for determining reasonableness other than by balancing the need to search [or seize] against the invasion which the search [or seizure] entails.'\"\n\nId. at 392 U. S. 20-21, quoting Camara v. Municipal Court, 387 U. S. 523, 387 U. S. 534-535, 387 U. S. 536-537 (1967).\n\nIn the present case, Ybarra would have us eschew such flexibility in favor of a rule allowing the police to search only those persons on the premises for whom the police have probable cause to believe that they possess contraband. Presumably, such a belief would entitle the police to search those persons completely. But such a rule not only reintroduces the rigidity condemned in Terry, it also renders the existence of the search warrant irrelevant. Given probable cause to believe that a person possesses illegal drugs, the police need no warrant to conduct a full body search. They need only arrest that person and conduct the search incident to that arrest. See Chimel v. California, 395 U. S. 752, 395 U. S. 763 (1969). It should not matter, of course, whether the arrest precedes the search or vice versa. See, e.g., United States v. Gorman, 355\n\nPage 444 U. S. 106\n\nF.2d 151, 159 (CA2 1965), cert. denied, 384 U.S. 1024 (1966); Holt v. Simpson, 340 F.2d 853, 856 (CA7 1965).\n\nAs already noted, I believe it error to analyze this case as if the police were under an obligation to act within one of the narrow exceptions to the warrant requirement, yet this is precisely what Ybarra would have us do. Whereas, in Terry, the warrant requirement was inapposite, here the warrant requirement has been fully satisfied. In either case, we should give full scope to the reasonableness requirement of the first clause of the Fourth Amendment. Thus, in judging the reasonableness of a search pursuant to a warrant, which search extends to persons present on the named premises, this Court should consider the scope of the intrusion as well as its justification.\n\nViewed sequentially, the actions of the police in this case satisfy the scope/justification test of reasonableness established by the first clause of the Fourth Amendment as interpreted in Terry. The police entered the Aurora Tap pursuant to the warrant and found themselves confronting a dozen people, all standing or sitting at the bar, the suspected location of the contraband. Because the police were aware that heroin was being offered for sale in the tavern, it was quite reasonable to assume that any one or more of the persons at the bar could have been involved in drug trafficking. This assumption, by itself, might not have justified a full-scale search of all the individuals in the tavern . Nevertheless, the police also were quite conscious of the possibility that one or more of the patrons could be armed in preparation for just such an intrusion. In the narcotics business, \"firearms are as much tools of the trade' as are most commonly recognized articles of narcotics paraphernalia.\" United States v. Oates, 560 F.2d 45, 62 (CA2 1977). The potential danger to the police executing the warrant and to innocent individuals in this dimly lit tavern cannot be minimized. By conducting an immediate frisk of those persons at the bar, the police eliminated\n\nPage 444 U. S. 107\n\nthis danger and \"froze\" the area in preparation for the search of the premises.\n\nYbarra contends that Terry requires an \"individualized\" suspicion that a particular person is armed and dangerous. While this factor may be important in the case of an on-the-street stop, where the officer must articulate some reason for singling the person out of the general population, there are at least two reasons why it has less significance in the present situation, where execution of a valid warrant had thrust the police into a confrontation with a small, but potentially dangerous, group of people. First, in place of the requirement of \"individualized suspicion\" as a guard against arbitrary exercise of authority, we have here the determination of a neutral and detached magistrate that a search was necessary. As this Court noted in Fisher v. United States, 425 U. S. 391, 425 U. S. 400 (1976), the Framers of the Fourth Amendment\n\n\"struck a balance so that, when the State's reason to believe incriminating evidence will be found becomes sufficiently great, the invasion of privacy becomes justified and a warrant to search and seize will issue.\"\n\nThe question then becomes whether, given the initial decision to intrude, the scope of the intrusion is reasonable.\n\nIn addition, the task performed by the officers executing a search warrant is inherently more perilous than is a momentary encounter on the street. The danger is greater\n\n\"not only because the suspect and officer will be in close proximity for a longer period of time, but also . . . because the officer's investigative responsibilities under the warrant require him to direct his attention to the premises, rather than the person.\"\n\nW. LaFave, Search and Seizure § 4.9, pp. 150-151 (1978). To hold a police officer in such a situation to the same standard of \"individualized suspicion\" as might be required in the case of an on-the-street stop would defeat the purpose of gauging reasonableness in terms of all the circumstances surrounding an encounter.\n\nPage 444 U. S. 108\n\nTerry suggests an additional factor that courts must consider when confronting an allegedly illegal frisk for weapons. As this Court admitted in that case, \"[t]he exclusionary rule has its limitations . . . as a tool of judicial control.\" 392 U.S. at 392 U. S. 13. Premised as that rule is on the hypothesis that police will avoid illegal searches if threatened with exclusion of the fruits of such searches,\n\n\"it is powerless to deter invasions of constitutionally guaranteed rights where the police either have no interest in prosecuting or are willing to forgo successful prosecution in the interest of serving some other goal.\"\n\nId. at 392 U. S. 14. Where, as here, a preliminary frisk is based on an officer's well honed sense of self-preservation, I have little doubt that \"the [exclusionary] rule is ineffective as a deterrent.\" Id. at 392 U. S. 13.\n\nMeasured against the purpose for the initial search is the scope of that search, I do not doubt that a pat-down for weapons is a substantial intrusion into one's privacy. See Terry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. at 392 U. S. 17, n. 13. Nevertheless, such an intrusion was more than justified, under the circumstances here, by the potential threat to the lives of the searching officers and innocent bystanders. In the rubric of Terry itself, a \"man of reasonable caution\" would have been warranted in the belief that it was appropriate to frisk the 12 or so persons in the vicinity of the bar for weapons. See id. at 392 U. S. 21-22. Thus, the initial frisk of Ybarra was legitimate.\n\nDuring this initial pat-down, Officer Johnson felt something suspicious: a cigarette package with objects in it. The record below is not entirely clear as to the shape or texture of the objects, but it is clear that Officer Johnson had at least a subjective suspicion that the objects were packets of heroin like those described in the warrant. He testified, for example, that after patting down the other persons at the bar, he returned directly to Ybarra to search him \"for controlled substances.\" App. 49. At this point, he reached into Ybarra's pants pocket, removed the cigarette package, and confirmed his suspicion.\n\nPage 444 U. S. 109\n\nWhile the test of reasonableness under the Fourth Amendment is necessarily objective, as opposed to subjective, see Terry v. Ohio, supra at 392 U. S. 21-22, Officer Johnson's subjective suspicions help fill out his cryptic description of the \"objects\" that he felt in Ybarra's pocket. The objects clearly did not feel like cigarettes. [Footnote 2/4] In this case, we need not decide whether, as a general rule, an officer conducting an on-the-street frisk under Terry can carry his search into the pockets of a suspect to examine material that he suspects to be contraband. We are dealing here with a case where the police had obtained a warrant to search for precisely the item that Officer Johnson suspected was present in Ybarra's pocket. Whether Officer Johnson's level of certainty could be labeled \"probable cause,\" \"reasonable suspicion,\" or some indeterminate, intermediate level of cognition, the limited pursuit of his suspicions by extracting the item from Ybarra's pocket was reasonable. The justification for the intrusion was linked closely to the terms of the search warrant; the intrusion itself was carefully tailored to conform to its justification.\n\nThe courts below reached a similar conclusion. The trial court noted correctly that\n\n\"[i]t might well not be reasonable to search 350 people on the first floor of Marshall Field, but we're talking about, by description, a rather small tavern.\"\n\nSee App. 43. The question, as understood by the trial court, was the \"reasonableness\" of the intrusion under all the surrounding circumstances. Ibid. The Illinois Appellate Court agreed. In an earlier case, People v. Pugh, 69 Ill.App.2d 312, 217 N.E.2d 557 (1966), the Appellate Court had concluded that the police acted reasonably in searching the brother of the owner of the named premises during the execution\n\nPage 444 U. S. 110\n\nof a search warrant for narcotics. According to the Appellate Court in that case,\n\n\"[t]he United States Constitution prohibits unreasonable searches . . . ; the search of Raymond Pugh under the circumstances of this case cannot be so classified.\"\n\nId. at 316, 217 N.E.2d at 559. In this case, the Appellate Court relied expressly on the holding and reasoning in Pugh, and found no constitutional violation in the searches of Ybarra. These findings should not be overturned lightly.\n\nI would conclude that Officer Johnson, acting under the authority of a valid search warrant, did not exceed the reasonable scope of that warrant in locating and retrieving the heroin secreted in Ybarra's pocket. This is not a case where Ybarra's Fourth Amendment rights were at the mercy of overly zealous officers \"engaged in the often competitive enterprise of ferreting out crime.\" Johnson v. United States, 333 U. S. 10, 333 U. S. 13-14 (1948). On the contrary, the need for a search was determined, as contemplated by the second clause of the Fourth Amendment, by a neutral and detached magistrate, and the officers performed their duties pursuant to their warrant in an appropriate fashion. The Fourth Amendment requires nothing more\n\n[Footnote 2/1]\n\nTechnically, the police must temporarily \"seize\" a person before they can search him. Such incidental seizures, however, never have been nor could be subjected to the warrant requirement. See Terry v. Ohio, 392 U. S. 1, 392 U. S. 20 (1968). See also infra at 444 U. S. 104-105.\n\n[Footnote 2/2]\n\nThe failure of the Fourth Amendment to require specification of the persons to be searched does not, of course, prohibit such specification. Thus, in the present case, the warrant specifically authorized the police to search Greg, the bartender.\n\n[Footnote 2/3]\n\nAs even a critic of the approach employed by the court below admitted,\n\n\"a realistic appraisal of the situation facing the officer executing a search warrant compels the conclusion that, under some circumstances, a right to search occupants of the place named in the warrant is essential.\"\n\nLaFave, Search and Seizure: \"The Course of True Law . . . Has Not . . . Run Smooth,\" 1966 Law Forum 255, 272.\n\n[Footnote 2/4]\n\nIn fact, Officer Johnson did testify that the objects felt exactly like what they were: heroin. See App. 9 (\"I felt some objects that I felt to be heroin\"). See also id. at 50 (\"I felt objects in his pocket which I believed -- \"). In both cases defense counsel interposed objections to Officer Johnson's characterization of the objects, which objections the trial court sustained.\"\n"}
