{"id": "319152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=319152", "title": "Akashic records", "text": "Akashic records\n\nIn theosophy and anthroposophy, the Akashic records are a compendium of all human events, thoughts, words, emotions, and intent ever to have occurred in the past, present, or future. They are believed by theosophists to be encoded in a non-physical plane of existence known as the etheric plane. There are anecdotal accounts but there is no scientific evidence for the existence of the Akashic records.\n\n\"Akasha\" (\"\" ) is the Sanskrit word for 'aether' or 'atmosphere'.\n\nThe Sanskrit term \"akasha\" was introduced to the language of theosophy through H. P. Blavatsky (1831–1891), who characterized it as a sort of life force; she also referred to \"indestructible tablets of the astral light\" recording both the past and future of human thought and action, but she did not use the term \"akashic\". \nThe notion of an akashic \"record\" was further disseminated by Alfred Percy Sinnett in his book \"Esoteric Buddhism\" (1883) when he cites Henry Steel Olcott's \"A Buddhist Catechism\" (1881). Olcott wrote that \"Buddha taught two things are eternal, viz, 'Akasa' and 'Nirvana': everything has come out of Akasa in obedience to a law of motion inherent in it, and, passes away. No thing ever comes out of nothing.\" Olcott further explains that \"Early Buddhism, then, clearly held to a permanency of records in the Akasa and the potential capacity of man to read the same, when he was evoluted to the stage of true individual enlightenment.\"\n\nBy C. W. Leadbeater's \"Clairvoyance\" (1899) the association of the term with the idea was complete, and he identified the akashic records by name as something a clairvoyant could read. \nIn his 1913 \"\", Leadbeater claims to record the history of Atlantis and other civilizations as well as the future society of Earth in the 28th century.\n\nAlice A. Bailey wrote in her book \"Light of the Soul\" on \"The Yoga Sutras of Patanjali – Book 3 – Union achieved and its Results\" (1927): \n\nThe Austrian theosophist and later founder of Anthroposophy, Rudolf Steiner, used the Akashic records concept mainly in a series of articles in his journal \"Lucifer-Gnosis\" from 1904 to 1908, where he wrote about Atlantis and Lemuria, topics related to their purported history and civilisation, etc. Besides this, he used the term in the title of lectures on a \"Fifth Gospel\" held in 1913 and 1914, shortly after the foundation of the Anthroposophical Society and Steiner's exclusion from the Theosophical Society Adyar.\n\nLevi H. Dowling's \"Aquarian Gospel of Jesus the Christ\" (1908) offers a version of the youth of Jesus Christ ostensibly based upon \"akashic record\" material.\n\nReferences to the \"Akashic Records\" can be found in few fantasy fictions like \"EvOLv\" by Ryan Sequeira and \"Keepers of the Kalachakra\" by Ashwin Sanghi.\n\n"}
{"id": "17706170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17706170", "title": "Antonio Caso Andrade", "text": "Antonio Caso Andrade\n\nAntonio Caso Andrade (December 19, 1883 – March 6, 1946) was a Mexican philosopher and rector of the former \"Universidad Nacional de México\", nowadays known as the National Autonomous University of Mexico from December 1921 to August 1923. Along with José Vasconcelos, he founded the Ateneo de la Juventud, a humanist group against philosophical positivism. The Athenian generation opposed Auguste Comte and Herbert Spencer’s philosophical views, giving credence to and expanding on the ideas of Henri Bergson, Schopenhauer, Nietzsche, and José Enrique Rodó. Caso opposed rationalism. His group the \"ateneistas\" believed in a moral, willing, and spiritual individual being.\n\nIn the summer of 1909, Caso presented his critiques of positivism in a series of conferences later expanded in the third edition by the Athenians of Youth. He was inspired by the Christian philosophical tradition, in particular by Blaise Pascal and Tolstoy. Caso distinguishes three aspects of human existence: economic, aesthetic, and moral. Caso refuted Gabino Barreda’s thesis and the first Justo Sierra that the future of Mexico was built primarily on basis of a scientific doctrine. In the work \"Catholicism, Jacobinism and Positivism\" included in the book Discursos a la nacion mexicana (Discourses to the Mexican nation) Caso deepens his criticism of two of the hegemonic ideologies in the late nineteenth century: Jacobinism (or extreme liberalism) and positivism. The supporters of the first accuse them of ignoring reality, while those in the second get the blame for the alleged inevitability of reality. Antonio Caso is a pioneer in the Mexican philosophy that was developed later by Samuel Ramos, Leopoldo Zea Aguilar, and Octavio Paz among others. In his book \"El problema de México y la ideología nacional\", (The problem of Mexico and the nation ideology) published in 1924, Caso argues Mexico’s biggest problem is the lack of unity (racial, cultural and social). Towards the end of his life, Caso was influenced by the philosophies of Husserl, Scheler, and Heidegger, especially Husserl, whose ideas were reflected in the book \"La filosofía de Husserl, El acto ideatorio, La persona humana y el estado totalitario y El peligro del hombre.\" (Husserl's philosophy, ideatory The act, The human person and the totalitarian state, and the danger of man).\n\n• \"La filosofía de la intuición\", 1914 The philosophy of intuition, 1914\n\n• \"El concepto de la historia universal\", 1918 The concept of universal history, 1918\n\n• \"Principios de estética\", 1925 Principles of aesthetics, 1925\n\n• \"El acto ideatorio\", 1934 The act ideatorio, 1934\n\n• \"El peligro del hombre\", 1942 The danger of man, 1942\n\nCandelaria, Michael, \"The Revolt of Unreason. Miguel de Unamuno and Antonio Caso on the Crisis of Modernity.\" Edited and with a foreword by Stella Villarmea. Amsterdam/New York, NY, Rodopi, 2012. E-\n"}
{"id": "410010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=410010", "title": "Arctometatarsal", "text": "Arctometatarsal\n\nAn arctometatarsalian organism is one in which the proximal part of the middle metatarsal is pinched between the surrounding metatarsals. The trait appears to be highly homoplastic, common in certain sorts of dinosaurs accustomed to running (among them the tyrannosauroids, ornithomimosaurs, and troodontids), to evenly transmit force to the metatarsals.\n"}
{"id": "60342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=60342", "title": "Asanga", "text": "Asanga\n\nAsaṅga (, ; Romaji: \"Mujaku\") (fl. 4th century C.E.) was a major exponent of the Yogacara tradition in India, also called \"Vijñānavāda\". Traditionally, he and his half-brother Vasubandhu are regarded as the founders of this school. The two half-brothers were also major exponents of Abhidharma teachings.\n\nAsaṅga was born as the son of a Kṣatriya father in Puruṣapura (present day Peshawar in Pakistan), which at that time was part of the ancient kingdom of Gandhāra. Current scholarship places him in the fourth century CE. He was perhaps originally a member of the Mahīśāsaka school or the Mūlasarvāstivāda school but later converted to Mahāyāna. According to some scholars, Asaṅga's frameworks for abhidharma writings retained many underlying Mahīśāsaka traits. André Bareau writes:\n\nIn the record of his journeys through the kingdoms of India, Xuanzang wrote that Asaṅga was initially a Mahīśāsaka monk, but soon turned toward the Mahāyāna teachings. Asaṅga had a half-brother, Vasubandhu, who was a monk from the Sarvāstivāda school. Vasubandhu is said to have taken up Mahāyāna Buddhism after meeting with Asaṅga and one of Asaṅga's disciples.\n\nAsaṅga spent many years in serious meditation, during which time tradition says that he often visited Tuṣita Heaven to receive teachings from Maitreya Bodhisattva. Heavens such as Tuṣita Heaven is said to be accessible through meditation, and accounts of this are given in the writings of the Indian Buddhist monk Paramārtha, who lived during the 6th century CE. Xuanzang tells a similar account of these events:\n\nAsaṅga went on to write many of the key Yogācāra treatises such as the \"Yogācārabhūmi-śāstra\", the \"Mahāyānasaṃgraha\" and the \"Abhidharma-samuccaya\" as well as other works, although there are discrepancies between the Chinese and Tibetan traditions concerning which works are attributed to him and which to Maitreya.\n\nAccording to Walpola Rahula, the thought of the \"Abhidharma-samuccaya\" is invariably closer to that of the Pali \"\" than is that of the Theravadin Abhidhamma.\n\nThe Tibetan tradition attributes authorship of the \"Ratnagotravibhaga\" to him, while the Chinese traditions attributes it to a certain Sthiramati or Sāramati. Peter Harvey finds the Tibetan attribution less plausible.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2666097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2666097", "title": "Ayn al-Quzat Hamadani", "text": "Ayn al-Quzat Hamadani\n\nAyn-al-Qużāt Hamadānī, also spelled Ain-al Quzat Hamedani or ʿAyn-al Qudat Hamadhani (1098–1131) (), full name: Abu’l-maʿālī ʿabdallāh Bin Abībakr Mohammad Mayānejī (), was a Persian jurisconsult, mystic, philosopher, poet and mathematician who was executed at the age of 33.\n\n\"Ayn-al-Qużat\" in Arabic means \"the pearl of the judges\": \"Ayn\" means the eye, implying something very valuable, and \"Qozat\" is the plural of \"Qadi\", which means judge.\n\nHe was born in Meyaneh and his ancestors were of Hamedan judges. He was a disciple of Ahmad Ghazali and devoted of Hallaj. He became a famous scholar at early ages, and by the time he was thirty he was chosen judge. Along with Abu Hamed Al-Ghazali, he is one of the founders of doctrinal Sufism. According to some accounts, he was briefly a pupil of Omar Khayyam. Upon his return from pilgrimage, Khayyam likely stayed in Hamadan for some time. It is possible that during his stay he became tutor to the young Ain al-Quzat. However, Aminrazavi (2007) believes that from the figures who may have studied with Khayyam Ain al-Quzat is the least likely and that arguing their association is wishful thinking by those who like to view Khayyam as a Sufi. Unlike most of the Sufis who have lived as respected and revered members of their communities, he fell afoul of the Seljuk rulers and was accused of heresy and executed, either by crucifixion or burning.\n\nAyn al-Quzat along with Mansur al-Hallaj and Shahab al-Din Suhrawardi are known as the three martyrs of Sufism.\n\nThe most significant works of Ayn al-Qożāt are \"Tamhīdāt (Preludes)\" and \"Zubdat al-ḥaqāʾiq fī kašf al-ḵalāʾeq (The Essence of Truth)\". Both books are masterpieces of Sufi literature and have mystical and philosophical significance.\nAyn al-Qożāt Hamadānī quoted a few verses apparently in his own Iranian dialect (where it is called fahlavī; bayt-e pahlavī in a manuscript variant).\n\nA famous quatrain is said to be his:\nThis quatrain refers to his execution by Caliph's order.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "517386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=517386", "title": "Biblical criticism", "text": "Biblical criticism\n\nBiblical criticism is an umbrella term for those methods of studying the Bible that embrace two distinctive perspectives: the concern to avoid dogma and bias by applying a non-sectarian, reason-based judgment, and the reconstruction of history according to contemporary understanding. Biblical criticism uses the grammar, structure, development, and relationship of language to identify such characteristics as the Bible's literary structure, its genre, its context, meaning, authorship, and origins.\n\nBiblical criticism includes a wide range of approaches and questions within four major contemporary methodologies: textual, source, form, and literary criticism. Textual criticism examines the text and its manuscripts to identify what the original text would have said. Source criticism searches the texts for evidence of original sources. Form criticism identifies short units of text and seeks to identify their original setting. Each of these is primarily historical and pre-compositional in its concerns. Literary criticism, on the other hand, focuses on the literary structure, authorial purpose, and reader's response to the text through methods such as rhetorical criticism, canonical criticism, and narrative criticism.\n\nBiblical criticism began as an aspect of the rise of modern culture in the West. Some scholars claim that its roots reach back to the Reformation, but most agree it grew out of the German Enlightenment. German pietism played a role in its development, as did British deism, with its greatest influences being rationalism and Protestant scholarship. The Enlightenment age and its skepticism of biblical and ecclesiastical authority ignited questions concerning the historical basis for the man Jesus separately from traditional theological views concerning him. This \"quest\" for the Jesus of history began in biblical criticism's earliest stages, reappeared in the nineteenth century, and again in the twentieth, remaining a major occupation of biblical criticism, on and off, for over 200 years. \nIn the late twentieth and early twenty-first century, biblical criticism was influenced by a wide range of additional academic disciplines and theoretical perspectives, changing it from a primarily historical approach to a multidisciplinary field. In a field long dominated by white male Protestants, non-white scholars, women, and those from the Jewish and Catholic traditions became prominent voices. Globalization brought a broader spectrum of worldviews into the field, and other academic disciplines as diverse as Near Eastern studies, psychology, anthropology and sociology formed new methods of biblical criticism such as socio-scientific criticism and psychological biblical criticism. Meanwhile, post-modernism and post-critical interpretation began questioning biblical criticism's role and function.\n\nAccording to tradition, Moses was the author of the first five books of the Bible, including the book of Genesis. Philosophers and theologians such as Thomas Hobbes (1588–1679), Benedict Spinoza (1632–1677), and Richard Simon (1638–1712) questioned Mosaic authorship. Spinoza said Moses could not have written the preface to Deuteronomy, since he never crossed the Jordan; he points out that Deuteronomy 31:9 references Moses in the third person; and he lists multiple other inconsistencies and anomalies that led him to conclude \"it was plain\" these Pentateuchal books were not written by Moses himself. Jean Astruc (1684–1766), a French physician, believed these critics were wrong about Mosaic authorship. According to Old Testament scholar Edward Young, Astruc believed Moses used hereditary accounts of the Hebrew people to assemble the book of Genesis. So, Astruc borrowed methods of textual criticism, used to investigate Greek and Roman texts, and applied them to the Bible in search of those original accounts. Astruc believed he identified them as separate sources that were edited together into the book of Genesis, thus explaining Genesis' problems while still allowing for Mosaic authorship. Astruc's method was adopted and developed at the twenty or so Protestant universities in Germany. There was a willingness among the doctoral candidates to re-express Christian doctrine in terms of the scientific method and the historical understanding common during the German Enlightenment (circa 1750–1850).\n\nGerman pietism played a role in the rise of biblical criticism by supporting the desire to break the hold of religious authority. Rationalism was also a significant influence in biblical criticism's development, providing its concern to avoid dogma and bias through reason. For example, the Swiss theologian Jean Alphonse Turretin (1671–1737) attacked conventional exegesis (interpretation) and argued for critical analysis led solely by reason. Turretin believed the Bible could be considered authoritative even if it was not considered inerrant. This has become a common modern Judeo-Christian view. Johann Salomo Semler (1725–1791) argued for an end to all doctrinal assumptions, giving historical criticism its non-sectarian nature. As a result, Semler is often called the father of historical-critical research. Semler distinguished between \"inward\" and \"outward\" religion, the idea that, for some people, their religion is their highest inner purpose, while for others, religion is a more exterior practice: a tool to accomplish other purposes more important to the individual such as political or economic goals. This is a concept recognized by modern psychology.\n\nCommunications scholar James A. Herrick says even though most scholars agree that biblical criticism evolved out of the German Enlightenment, there are also histories of biblical scholarship that have found \"strong direct links\" with British deism. Herrick references the theologian Henning Graf Reventlow as saying deism included the humanist world view, which has also been significant in biblical criticism. Some scholars, such as Gerhard Ebeling (1912–2001), Rudolf Bultmann (1884–1976), and Ernst Käsemann (1906–1998) trace biblical criticism's origins to the Reformation. Three early scholars of the Reformation era who helped lay the foundations of modern biblical criticism were Joachim Camerarius (1500–1574), Hugo Grotius (1583–1645), and Matthew Tindal (1653–1733). Camerarius advocated for using context to interpret Bible texts. Grotius paved the way for comparative religion studies by analyzing New Testament texts in light of Classical, Jewish and early Christian writings. Tindal, as part of English deism, asserted that Jesus taught natural religion, an undogmatic faith that was later changed by the Church. This view drove a wedge between scripture and the Church's claims of religious truth.\nThe first scholar to separate the historical Jesus from the theological Jesus was philosopher, writer, classicist, Hebraist and Enlightenment free thinker Hermann Samuel Reimarus (1694–1768). Copies of Reimarus' writings were discovered by G. E. Lessing (1729–1781) in the library at Wolfenbüttel where he was librarian. Reimarus had left permission for his work to be published after his death, and Lessing did so between 1774 and 1778, publishing them as \"Die Fragmente eines unbekannten Autors\" (\"The Fragments of an Unknown Author\"). Over time, they came to be known as the \"Wolfenbüttel Fragments\" after the library where Lessing worked. Reimarus distinguished between what Jesus taught and how he is portrayed in the New Testament. According to Reimarus, Jesus was a political Messiah who failed at creating political change and was executed. His disciples then stole the body and invented the story of the resurrection for personal gain. Reimarus' controversial work prompted a response from Semler in 1779, \"Beantwortung der Fragmente eines Ungenannten\" (\"Answering the Fragments of an Unknown\"). Semler refuted Reimarus' arguments, but it was of little consequence. Reimarus' writings had already made a lasting change in the practice of biblical criticism by making it clear such criticism could exist independently of theology and faith. Reimarus had shown biblical criticism could serve its own ends, be governed solely by rational criteria, and reject deference to religious tradition.\n\nLessing contributed to the field of biblical criticism by seeing Reimarus' writings published, but he also made contributions of his own work, arguing that the proper study of biblical texts requires knowing the context in which they were written. This has since become an accepted concept. During this period, the biblical scholar Johann David Michaelis (1717–1791) wrote the first historical-critical introduction to the New Testament, in which the historical study of each book of the Bible is discussed. Instead of interpreting the Bible historically, Johann Gottfried Eichhorn (1752–1827), Johann Philipp Gabler (1753–1826), and Georg Lorenz Bauer (1755–1806) took a different approach. They used the concept of myth as a tool for interpreting the Bible. This concept was later picked up by Rudolf Bultmann and it became particularly influential in the early twentieth century.\n\nTheologians Richard and Kendall Soulen say biblical criticism reached full flower in the nineteenth century, becoming the \"major transforming fact of biblical studies in the modern period\" and noted that the people working at that time \"saw themselves as continuing the aims of the Protestant Reformation.\" Landmarks in understanding the Bible and its background were achieved during this century, with many modern concepts having their roots here. For example, in 1835 and again in 1845, theologian Ferdinand Christian Baur (1792–1860) postulated a sharp contrast between the apostles Peter and Paul. Since then, this concept has had widespread debate within topics such as Pauline and New Testament studies, early church studies, Jewish Law, the theology of grace, and the doctrine of justification.\n\nFoundations of anti-Jewish bias were also established in the field at this time under the guise of scholarly objectivity. The first Enlightenment Protestant to call for the \"de-Judaizing\" of Christianity was Johann Semler. The \"emancipation of reason\" from the \"Word of God\" was a primary goal of Semler and the Enlightenment exegetes, yet the picture of the Jews and Judaism found in biblical criticism of this period is colored by classic anti-Jewish stereotypes \"despite the tradition's lip-service to emancipation.\" He took a stand against discrimination in society while at the same time writing theology that was strongly negative toward the Jews and Judaism. He saw Christianity as something new and universal that supersedes all that came before it. This stark contrast between Judaism and Christianity became a common theme, along with a strong prejudice against Jews and Judaism, in Herder, Schleiermacher, de Wette, Baur, Strauss, Ritschl, the history of religions school, and on into the form critics of the Twentieth century until World War II.\n\nBiblical criticism was divided into higher criticism and lower criticism during this century. Higher criticism focuses on the Bible's composition and history, while lower criticism is concerned with interpreting its meaning for its readers. Later in the 19th century, the discovery of ancient manuscripts revolutionized textual criticism and translation. During this period, Bible scholar H. J. Holtzmann developed a listing of the chronological order of the New Testament. The height of biblical criticism is also represented by the history of religions school (known in German as the \"Kultgeschichtliche Schule\" or alternatively the \"Religionsgeschichtliche Schule\"). This school was a group of German Protestant theologians associated with the University of Göttingen in the late 19th century who sought to understand Judaism and Christianity within their relationship to other religions of the Near East.\n\nThe late nineteenth century saw the second \"quest for the historical Jesus\" which primarily involved writing versions of the \"life of Jesus.\" Important scholars of this quest included David Strauss (1808–1874), whose cultural significance is in his contribution to weakening the established authorities, and whose theological significance is in his confrontation of the doctrine of Christ's divinity with the modern critical study of history. Adolf Von Harnack (1851–1930) contributed to the quest for the historical Jesus, writing \"The Essence of Christianity\" in 1900, where he described Jesus as a reformer. William Wrede (1859–1906) was a forerunner of redaction criticism. Ernst Renan (1823–1892) promoted the critical method and was opposed to orthodoxy. Johannes Weiss (1863–1914), W. Bousset, Hermann Gunkel, and William Wrede were key figures in the founding of the \"Religionsgeschichtliche Schule\" in Göttingen in the 1890s. While at Göttingen, Weiss wrote his most influential work on the apocalyptic proclamations of Jesus. It was left to Albert Schweitzer (1875–1965) to finish pursuit of the apocalyptic Jesus and revolutionize New Testament scholarship at the turn of the century. He proved to most of that scholarly world that Jesus' teachings and actions were determined by his eschatological outlook. He also critiqued the romanticized \"lives of Jesus\" as built on dubious assumptions reflecting more of the life of the author than Jesus.\n\nIn the early part of the twentieth century, Karl Barth, Rudolf Bultmann, and others moved away from concern over the historical Jesus and concentrated instead on the \"kerygma\": the message of the New Testament. While there is consensus that Barth was the greatest theologian of the century, scholars such as theologian Konrad Hammann call Bultmann the \"giant of twentieth-century New Testament biblical criticism: His pioneering studies in biblical criticism shaped research on the composition of the gospels, and his call for demythologizing biblical language sparked debate among Christian theologians worldwide.\" Bultmann's demythologizing refers to the reinterpretation of the biblical myths (myth is defined as descriptions of the divine in human terms). It is not the elimination of myth but is, instead, its re-expression in terms of the existential philosophy of Martin Heidegger. Bultmann claimed myths are \"true\" anthropologically and existentially but not cosmologically. As a major proponent of form criticism, Bultmann's views \"set the agenda for a generation of leading New Testament scholars\".\n\nRedaction criticism was also a common form of biblical criticism used in the early to mid-twentieth century. While form criticism divided the text into small units, redaction emphasized the literary integrity of the larger literary units. The discovery of the Dead Sea scrolls at Qumran in 1948 renewed interest in the contributions archaeology could make to biblical studies as well as to the challenges it presented to various aspects of biblical criticism. New Testament scholar Joachim Jeremias used linguistics and history to describe Jesus' Jewish environment. The biblical theology movement of the 1950s produced a massive debate between Old Testament and New Testament scholars over the unity of the Bible. The rise of redaction criticism closed it by bringing about a greater emphasis on diversity.\n\nAfter 1970, biblical criticism began to change radically and pervasively. New criticism (literary criticism) developed. New historicism, a literary theory that views history through literature, also developed. Biblical criticism began to apply new literary approaches such as structuralism and rhetorical criticism, which were less concerned with history and more concerned with the texts themselves. In the 1970s, the New Testament scholar E. P. Sanders advanced the New Perspective on Paul, which has greatly influenced scholarly views on the relationship between Pauline Christianity and Jewish Christianity in the Pauline epistles. Sanders also advanced study of the historical Jesus by putting Jesus' life in the context of first-century Second Temple Judaism. In 1974, the theologian Hans Frei published \"The Eclipse of Biblical Narrative\", which became a landmark work leading to the development of post-critical biblical interpretation. The third period of focused study on the historical Jesus began in 1985 with the Jesus Seminar.\n\nBy 1990, biblical criticism was no longer primarily a historical discipline but was instead a group of disciplines with often conflicting interests. New perspectives from different ethnicities, feminist theology, Catholicism and Judaism revealed an \"untapped world\" previously overlooked by the majority of white male Protestants who had dominated biblical criticism from its beginnings. Globalization brought different world views, while other academic fields such as Near Eastern studies, sociology, and anthropology became active in biblical criticism as well. These new points of view created awareness that the Bible can be rationally interpreted from many different perspectives. In turn, this awareness changed biblical criticism's central concept from the criteria of neutral judgment to that of beginning from a recognition of the various biases the reader brings to the study of the texts.\n\nTheologian David R. Law writes that textual, source, form, and redaction criticism are employed together by biblical scholars. The Old Testament (the Hebrew Bible) and the New Testament are distinct bodies of literature that raise their own problems of interpretation. Therefore, separating these methods, and addressing the Bible as a whole, is an artificial approach that is necessary only for the purpose of description.\n\nTextual criticism examines the text itself and all associated manuscripts to determine the original text. It is one of the largest areas of Biblical criticism in terms of the sheer amount of information it addresses. The roughly 900 manuscripts found at Qumran include the oldest extant manuscripts of the Hebrew Bible. They represent every book except Esther, though most are fragmentary. The New Testament has been preserved in more manuscripts than any other ancient work, having over 5,800 complete or fragmented Greek manuscripts, 10,000 Latin manuscripts and 9,300 manuscripts in various other ancient languages including Syriac, Slavic, Gothic, Ethiopic, Coptic and Armenian. The dates of these manuscripts range from c.110—125 (the papyrus) to the introduction of printing in Germany in the 15th century. There are also a million New Testament quotations in the collected writings of the Church Fathers of the first four centuries. As a comparison, the next best-sourced ancient text is Homer's \"Iliad\", which is found in more than 1,900 manuscripts, though many are of a fragmentary nature. The two chief works of the first-century Roman historian Tacitus, \"Annales\" and \"Historiae\", each survive in only a single medieval manuscript. There are a total of 476 extant non-Christian manuscripts dated to the second century. These texts were all written by hand, by copying from another handwritten text, so they are not alike in the manner of a printed work. The differences between them are called variants.\nA variant is simply any variation between two texts, and while the exact number is somewhat disputed, scholars agree the more texts, the more variants. This means there are more variants concerning New Testament texts than Old Testament texts. Variants are not evenly distributed throughout the texts. Textual scholar Kurt Aland explains that charting the variants shows the New Testament is 62.9% variant-free. Many variants originate in simple misspellings or mis-copying. For example, a scribe would drop one or more letters, skip a word or line, write one letter for another, transpose letters, and so on. Some variants represent a scribal attempt to simplify or harmonize, by changing a word or a phrase. Ehrman explains: scribe \"<nowiki>'</nowiki>A<nowiki>'</nowiki>\" will introduce mistakes which are not in the manuscript of scribe \"<nowiki>'</nowiki>B<nowiki>'</nowiki>\". Copies of text \"<nowiki>'</nowiki>A<nowiki>'</nowiki>\" with the mistake will subsequently contain that same mistake. The multiple generations of texts that follow, containing the error, are referred to as a \"family\" of texts. Over time the texts descended from \"<nowiki>'</nowiki>A<nowiki>'</nowiki>\" that share the error, and those from \"<nowiki>'</nowiki>B<nowiki>'</nowiki>\" that do not share it, will diverge further, but later texts will still be identifiable as descended from one or the other because of the presence or absence of that original mistake. Textual criticism studies the differences between these families to piece together what the original looked like. Sorting out the wealth of source material is complex, so textual families were sorted into categories tied to geographical areas. The divisions of the New Testament textual families were \"Alexandrian\" (also called the \"Neutral text\"), \"Western\" (Latin translations), and \"Eastern\" (used by Antioch and Constantinople). \n\nForerunners of modern textual criticism can be found in both early Rabbinic Judaism and the early church. Rabbis addressed variants in the Hebrew texts as early as AD 100. Tradition played a central role in their task of producing a standard version of the Hebrew Bible. The Hebrew text they produced stabilized by the end of the second century, and has come to be known as the Masoretic text, the source of the Christian Old Testament. However, the discovery of the Dead Sea Scrolls in 1947 has created problems. While 60% of the Dead Sea manuscripts are closely related to Masoretic tradition, others bear a closer resemblance to the Septuagint (the ancient Greek version of the Hebrew texts) and the Samaritan Pentateuch. For textual criticism, this has raised the question of whether or not there is such a thing that can be considered \"original text.\"\nThe two main processes of textual criticism are recension and emendation. Recension is the selection of the most trustworthy evidence on which to base a text. Emendation is the attempt to eliminate the errors which are found even in the best manuscripts. Despite its use of objective rules, there is a subjective element involved in textual criticism. The textual critic chooses a reading based on personal judgment, experience and common-sense. Biblical scholar David Clines gives the example of Amos 6.12. It reads: \"Does one plough with oxen? The obvious answer is 'yes', but the context of the passage seems to demand a 'no'; the usual reading therefore is to amend this to, 'Does one plough \"the sea\" with oxen?' The amendment has a basis in the text, which is believed to be corrupted, but is nevertheless a matter of personal judgment.\"\n\nAll of this contributes to textual criticism being one of the most contentious areas of biblical criticism as well as the largest. It uses specialized methodologies, enough specialized terms to create its own lexicon, and is guided by a number of principles. Yet any of these can be contested, as well as any conclusions based on them, and they often are. For example, in the late 1700s, textual critic Johann Jacob Griesbach developed fifteen critical principles for determining which texts are likely the oldest and closest to the original. One of Griesbach's rules is \"lectio brevior praeferenda\": \"the shorter reading is preferred\". This was based on the idea scribes were more likely to add to a text than omit from it, making shorter texts more likely to be older. Latin scholar Albert C. Clark challenged this in 1914. Based on his study of Cicero, Clark argued omission was a more common scribal error than addition, saying \"A text is like a traveler who goes from one inn to another losing an article of luggage at each stop.\" Clark's claims were criticized by those who supported Griesbach's principles. Clark responded, but disagreement continued. Nearly eighty years later, the theologian and priest James Royse took up the case. After close study of multiple New Testament papyri, he concluded Clark was right. Some scholars have recently called to abandon older approaches to textual criticism in favor of new computer-assisted methods for determining manuscript relationships in a more reliable way.\n\nSource criticism is the search for the original sources that form the basis of biblical text. It can be traced back to the 17th-century French priest Richard Simon. In Old Testament studies, source criticism is generally focused on identifying sources within a single text. For example, the modern view of the origins of the book of Genesis was first laid in 1753 by the French physician Jean Astruc. He presumed Moses used ancient documents to write it, so his goal was identifying and reconstructing those documents by separating the book of Genesis back into those original sources. He discovered Genesis alternates use of two different names for God while the rest of the Pentateuch after Exodus 3 omits that alternation. He found repetitions of certain events, such as parts of the flood story that are repeated three times. He also found apparent anachronisms: statements seemingly from a later time than Genesis was set. Astruc hypothesized that this separate material was fused into a single unit that became the book of Genesis thereby creating its duplications and parallelisms. Further examples of the products of source criticism include its two most influential and well-known theories concerning the origins of the Pentateuch (the Documentary hypothesis) and the four gospels (two-source hypothesis).\n\nTheologian Antony F. Campbell says source criticism's most influential work is Julius Wellhausen's \"Prolegomena zur Geschichte Israels\" (\"Prologue to the History of Israel\", 1878) which sought to establish the sources of the first five books of the Old Testament. Wellhausen correlated the history and development of those five books, known as the Pentateuch, with the development of the Jewish faith. The Documentary hypothesis, also known as the \"JEDP\" theory, or the Wellhausen theory, says the Pentateuch was combined out of four separate and coherent sources known as \"J\" (which stands for \"Yahwist\", which is spelled with a \"J\" in German), \"E\" (for \"Elohist\"), \"D\" (for \"Deuteronomist\"), and \"P\" (for the \"Priestly source\"). Old Testament scholar Karl Graf (1815–1869) suggested the \"P\" in 1866 as the last stratum of the Wellhausen theory. Therefore, the Documentary hypothesis is sometimes also referred to as the \"Graf–Wellhausen hypothesis\". Later scholars inferred more sources, with increasing information about their extent and inter-relationship.\n\nThe fragmentary theory was a later understanding of Wellhausen produced by form criticism. This theory argues that fragments of various documents, and not continuous documents, are the sources for the Pentateuch. This accounts for diversity but not structural and chronological consistency. The Supplementary hypothesis can be seen as an evolution of the Documentary hypothesis that solidified in the 1970s. Proponents of this view assert three sources for the Pentateuch, with the Deuteronomist as the oldest source, and the Torah assembled from a central core document, the Elohist, then supplemented by fragments taken from other sources.\n\nAdvocates of the Documentary hypothesis contend it accounts well for the differences and duplication found in each of the Pentateuchal books. Furthermore, they argue, it provides an explanation for the peculiar character of the material labeled P, which reflects the perspective and concerns of Israel's priests. However, the original theory has also been heavily criticized. Old Testament scholar Ernest Nicholson says that by the end of the 1970s and into the 1990s, \"one major study after another, like a series of hammer blows, ... rejected the main claims of the Documentary theory, and the criteria on ... which those claims are grounded.\" It has been criticized for its dating of the sources, for assuming that the original sources were coherent, and for assuming E and P were originally complete documents. Studies of the literary structure of the Pentateuch have shown J and P used the same structure, and that motifs and themes cross the boundaries of the various sources, which undermines arguments for separate origins. Problems and criticisms of the Documentary hypothesis have been brought on by such literary analysis, but also by anthropological developments, and by various archaeological findings, such as those indicating Hebrew is older than previously believed. Presently, few biblical scholars still hold to Wellhausen's Documentary hypothesis in its classical form. However, while current debate has modified Wellhausen's conclusions, Nicholson says \"for all that it needs revision and development in detail, [the work of Wellhausen] remains the securest basis for understanding the Pentateuch.\" Critical scholar Pauline Viviano agrees, stating that the general contours of Wellhausen's view remain with the Newer Documentary Hypothesis providing the best answers to the complex question of how the Pentateuch was formed.\n\nIn New Testament studies, source criticism has taken a slightly different approach from Old Testament studies by focusing on identifying the common sources of multiple texts. This has revealed the Gospels are both products of sources and sources themselves. As sources, Matthew, Mark and Luke are partially dependent on each other and partially independent of each other. This is called the synoptic problem, and explaining it is the single greatest dilemma of New Testament source criticism. Multiple theories exist to address the dilemma. However, two theories have become predominant: the two-source hypothesis and the four-source hypothesis.\n\nMark is the shortest of the four gospels with only 661 verses, but six hundred of those verses are in Matthew and 350 of them are in Luke. Some of these verses are copied verbatim. Most scholars agree that this indicates Mark was a source for Matthew and Luke. There is also some verbatim agreement between Matthew and Luke of verses not found in Mark. In 1838, the religious philosopher Christian Hermann Weisse developed a theory about this. He postulated a hypothetical collection of Jesus' sayings from an additional source called Q, taken from \"Quelle\", which is German for \"source\". If this document existed, it has now been lost, but some of its material can be deduced indirectly. Comparing what is common to Matthew and Luke, yet absent in Mark, the critical scholar Heinrich Julius Holtzmann demonstrated (in 1863) the probable existence of Q well enough for it to be accepted as a likely second source, along with Mark, for Matthew and Luke. This allowed the two-source hypothesis to emerge as the best supported of the various synoptic solutions. There is also material unique to each gospel. This indicates additional separate sources for Matthew and for Luke. Biblical scholar B. H. Streeter used this insight to refine and expand the two-source theory into a four-source theory in 1925.\n\nWhile most scholars agree that the two-source theory offers the best explanation for the Synoptic problem, it has not gone without dispute. The Synoptic Seminar disbanded in 1982, reporting that its members \"could not agree on a single thing\", leading some to claim the problem is unsolvable. No single theory offers a complete solution. There are complex and important difficulties that create challenges to every theory. One example is Basil Christopher Butler's challenge to the legitimacy of two-source theory, arguing it contains a Lachmann fallacy that says the two-source theory loses cohesion when it is acknowledged that no source can be established for Mark.\n\nForm criticism began in the early twentieth century when theologian Karl Ludwig Schmidt observed that Mark's Gospel is composed of short units. Schmidt asserted these small units were remnants and evidence of the oral tradition that preceded the writing of the gospels. Bible scholar Richard Bauckham says this \"most significant insight,\" which established the foundation of form criticism, has never been refuted. Hermann Gunkel (1862–1932) and Martin Dibelius (1883-1947) built from this insight and pioneered form criticism. Form criticism breaks the Bible down into those short units, called \"pericopes\", which are then classified by genre: prose or verse, letters, laws, court archives, war hymns, poems of lament, and so on. Form criticism then theorizes concerning the individual pericope's \"Sitz im Leben\" (\"setting in life\" or \"place in life\"). Based on their understanding of folklore, form critics believed the early Christian communities formed the sayings and teachings of Jesus according to their needs (their \"situation in life\"), and that each form could be identified by the situation in which it had been created.\nForm criticism, represented by Rudof Bultmann, its most influential proponent, was the dominant method in the field of biblical criticism for nearly 80 years. However, Old Testament scholar Rolf Knierim says contemporary scholars have produced an \"explosion of studies\" on structure, genre, text-type, setting and language that challenge several of its aspects and assumptions. Biblical scholar Richard Burridge explains:\n\nThe general critique of form criticism came from various sources, putting several areas in particular under scrutiny. The analogy between the development of the gospel pericopae and folklore needed reconsideration because of developments in folklore studies; it was less easy to assume the steady growth of an oral tradition in stages... the length of time needed for the \"laws\" of oral transmission to operate was greater than taken by the gospels; even the existence of such laws was questioned.\n\nIn the early to mid twentieth century, Bultmann and other form critics said they had found oral \"laws of development\" within the New Testament. In the 1970s, New Testament scholar E. P. Sanders argued against the existence of such laws. During the latter half of the twentieth century, observations from field studies of cultures with existing oral traditions lent support to Sanders' view. For example, in 1978 linguists Milman Parry and Albert Bates Lord observed that oral tradition does not develop in the same manner as written texts. Writing tends to develop in a linear manner, beginning with a crude first draft which is then edited bit by bit to become more polished. Oral tradition is more complex and multidirectional in its development. Religion scholar Burke O. Long sums up the contemporary view by observing that, since oral tradition does not follow the same developmental pattern as written texts, laws of oral development cannot be arrived at by studying written texts.\n\nAdditional challenges of form criticism have also been raised. For example, biblical studies scholar Werner H. Kelber says form criticism throughout the mid-twentieth century was so focused toward finding each pericope's original form, that it distracted from any serious consideration of memory as a dynamic force in the construction of the gospels or the early church community tradition. What Kelber refers to as form criticism's \"astounding myopia\" has produced enough criticism to revive interest in memory as an analytical category within biblical criticism. Knierim says \"Sitz im Leben\" has been challenged by studies that demonstrate a text type \"does not automatically reveal the setting.\" Another example concerns the Hellenistic culture that surrounded first-century Palestine. Form criticism assumed the early Church was heavily influenced by that culture. However, in the 1970s, E. P. Sanders, as well as Gerd Theissen, sparked new rounds of studies that included anthropological and sociological perspectives, reestablishing Judaism as the predominant influence on Jesus, Paul and the New Testament. New Testament scholar N. T. Wright says, \"The earliest traditions of Jesus reflected in the Gospels are written from the perspective of Second Temple Judaism [and] must be interpreted from the standpoint of Jewish eschatology and apocalypticism.\"\n\nBultmann has been personally criticized for being overly focused on Heidegger's philosophy in his philosophical foundation, and for working with \"a priori\" notions concerning \"folklore, the distinction between Palestinian and Hellenistic communities, the length of the oral period, and more, that were not derived from study but were instead constructed according to a preconceived pattern\". For some, the many challenges to form criticism mean its future is in doubt. Bible scholar Anthony J. Campbell says:\n\nForm criticism had a meteoric rise in the early part of the twentieth century and fell from favor toward its end. For some, the future of form criticism is not an issue: it has none. But if form criticism embodies an essential insight, it will continue. ...Two elements embody this insight and give it its value: concern for the nature of the text and for its shape and structure... If the encrustations can be scraped away, the \"good stuff\" may still be there.\n\n\"Redaction\" is the process of editing multiple sources, often with a similar theme, into a single document. Redaction critics focus on discovering how the literary units were originally edited—\"redacted\"—into their current forms. Redaction criticism developed after World War II in Germany and in the 1950s in England and North America, and can be seen as a correlative to form criticism. It is dependent on both source and form criticism, because it is necessary to identify the traditions before determining how the redactor has made use of them. However, redaction criticism rejects source and form criticism's description of the Bible texts as mere collections of fragments. Where form criticism fractures the biblical elements into smaller and smaller individual pieces, redaction criticism attempts to interpret the whole literary unit. As a result, redaction criticism \"provides a corrective to the methodological imbalance of form criticism\". Form criticism saw the synoptic writers as mere collectors and focused on the \"Sitz im Leben\" as the creator of the texts. Redaction criticism deals more positively with the Gospel writers restoring an understanding of them as theologians of the early church. Bible scholars Richard and Kendall Soulen explain that when redaction criticism is applied to the synoptic gospels, \"it is the evangelist's use, disuse or alteration of the traditions open to him that is in view, rather than the form and original setting of the traditions themselves.\"\n\nSince redaction criticism was developed from form criticism, it shares many of its weaknesses. For example, it assumes an extreme skepticism toward the historicity of Jesus and the gospels just as form criticism does. Redaction criticism seeks the historical community of the final redactors of the gospels, though there is often no textual clue, and its method in finding the final editor's theology is flawed. In the New Testament, redaction discerns the evangelist's theology by focusing and relying upon the differences between the gospels, yet it is unclear whether every difference has theological meaning, how much meaning, or whether a difference is a stylistic or even an accidental change. Further, it is not at all clear whether the difference was made by the evangelist, who could have used the already–changed–story when writing a gospel. The evangelist's theology more likely depends on what the gospels have in common as well as their differences.\n\nOne of the weaknesses of redaction criticism in its New Testament application is that it assumes Markan priority. Redaction criticism can only function when sources are already known, and since redaction criticism of the Synoptics has been based on the Markan priority of two-source theory, if the priority of Matthew is ever established, redaction criticism would have to begin all over again. Followers of other theories concerning the Synoptic problem, such as those who support the Greisbach hypothesis which says Matthew was written first, Luke second, and Mark third, do not accept redaction criticism.\n\nLiterary criticism shifted scholarly attention from historical and pre-compositional matters to the text itself, becoming the dominant form of biblical criticism in a relatively short period of about thirty years. New Testament scholar Paul R. House says the discipline of linguistics, new views of historiography, and the decline of older methods of criticism opened the door for literary criticism. In 1957 literary critic Northrop Frye wrote an analysis of the Bible from the perspective of his literary background that used literary criticism to understand the Bible forms. It became influential in moving biblical criticism from a historical to a literary focus.\n\nBy 1974, the two methodologies being used in literary criticism were rhetorical analysis and structuralism. Rhetorical analysis divides a passage into units, observes how a single unit shifts or breaks, taking special note of poetic devices, meter, parallelism, word play and so on. It then charts the writer's thought progression from one unit to the next, and finally, assembles the data in an attempt to explain the author's intentions behind the piece. Structuralism looks at the language to discern \"layers of meaning\" with the goal of uncovering a work's \"deep structures\": the premises as well as the purposes of the author. In 1981 literature scholar Robert Alter also contributed to the development of biblical literary criticism by publishing an influential analysis of biblical themes from a literary perspective. The 1980s saw the rise of formalism, which focuses on plot, structure, character and themes. Reader-response criticism, which focuses on the reader rather than the author, was put forward by the Old Testament scholar David M. Gunn in 1987.\n\nNew Testament scholar Donald Guthrie highlights a flaw in the literary critical approach to the Gospels. The genre of the Gospels has not been fully determined. No conclusive evidence has yet been produced to settle the question of genre, and without genre, no adequate parallels can be found, and without parallels \"it must be considered to what extent the principles of literary criticism are applicable.\" The validity of using the same critical methods for novels and for the Gospels, without the assurance the Gospels are actually novels, must be questioned.\n\nCanonical criticism has both theological and literary roots. Its origins are found in the Church's views of scripture as sacred as well as in the literary critics who began to influence biblical scholarship in the 1940s and 1950s. Canonical criticism responded to two things: 1) the sense that biblical criticism had obscured the meaning and authority of the canon of scripture; and 2) the fundamentalism in the Christian Church that had arisen in America in the 1920s and 1930s. Canonical criticism does not reject historical criticism and sociological analysis, but considers them secondary in importance. Canonical critics believe the texts should be treated with respect as the canon of a believing community. Canonical critics use the tools of biblical criticism to study the books of the Bible, but approach the books as whole units. They take the books as finished works and treat each book as a unity, instead of taking them apart and focusing on isolated pieces. This begins from the position that scripture contains within it what is needed to understand it, rather than being understandable only as the product of a historically determined process. Canonical criticism helped literary criticism move biblical studies in a new direction by focusing on the text rather than the author. It uses the text itself, the needs of the communities addressed by those texts, and the interpretation likely to have been formed originally to meet those needs. The canonical critic then relates this to the overall canon. Canonical criticism is associated with Brevard S. Childs (1923–2007), though he declined to use the term.\n\nJames Muilenburg (1896–1974) is often referred to as \"the prophet of rhetorical criticism\". A product of the 1960s, rhetorical criticism seeks to understand text type, as does form criticism, but moves beyond form criticism by looking into the inner theological meaning the author was trying to communicate. The rhetorical scholar Sonja K. Foss says there are ten methods of practicing rhetorical criticism, but each focuses on three dimensions of rhetoric: the authors, what they use to communicate, and what they are trying to communicate. Rhetorical criticism is the systematic effort to understand the message being communicated in a focused and conscious manner. Biblical rhetorical criticism asks how hearing the texts impacted the audience. It attempts to discover and evaluate the rhetorical devices, language, and methods of communication used within the texts to accomplish the goals of those texts. Phyllis Trible, a student of Muilenburg, has become one of the \"leading practitioners of rhetorical criticism\" and is known for her detailed literary analysis and her feminist critique of biblical interpretation.\n\nWithin narrative criticism, critics approach scripture as story. Narrative criticism began being used to study the New Testament in the 1970s, and a decade later, study also included the Old Testament. However, the first time a published approach was labeled \"narrative criticism\" was in 1980, in the article \"Narrative Criticism and the Gospel of Mark,\" written by Bible scholar David Rhoads. Narrative criticism has its foundations in form criticism, but it is not a historical discipline. It is purely literary. Historical critics began to recognize the Bible was not being studied in the manner other ancient writings were studied, and they began asking if these texts should be understood on their own terms before being used as evidence of something else like history. It is now accepted as \"axiomatic in literary circles that the meaning of literature transcends the historical intentions of the author.\" Narrative criticism embraces the textual unity of canonical criticism, while admitting the existence of the sources and redactions of historical criticism. Narrative critics choose to focus on the artistic weaving of the biblical texts into a sustained narrative picture. The literary scholar Steven Weitzman (1892–1957) has argued that \"narrative economy\" (omitting comments about the thoughts or emotional state of a character) and \"narrative unity\" are what make the text a \"work of art\". Narrative critics encourage the \"implied reader\" to see biblical characters as literary figures, observe textual unity, the importance of the narrator, \"implied\" authorial intent, and to be aware that a narrative can be interpreted in multiple ways. This perspective is key, Auerbach says: \"Since so much in [Bible stories] is dark and incomplete, and since the reader knows that God is a hidden god, [the reader's] effort to interpret it constantly finds something new to feed on... there is no end for interpretation.\"\n\nThe Quest for the historical Jesus, also known as life of Jesus research, is an area of biblical criticism that seeks to reconstruct the life and teachings of Jesus of Nazareth by critical historical methods. The quest began with the posthumous publication of Hermann Reimarus' effort to reconstruct an \"authentic\" historical picture of Jesus instead of a theological one. The quest was a product of the Enlightenment skepticism of the late eighteenth century and produced a stark division between history and theology. The study flourished in the nineteenth century, making its mark in the theology of the German Protestant liberals. They saw the purpose of a historically true life of Jesus as a critical force that functioned theologically against the high Christology established by Roman Catholicism centuries before.\n\nAfter Albert Schweitzer's \"Von Reimarus zu Wrede\" was published as \"The Quest of the Historical Jesus\" in 1910, its title provided the label for the field of study for the next eighty years. Interest languished in the early twentieth century, but revived in the 1950s, with some scholars asserting there have been three distinct quests. However, Bible scholar Stanley Porter asserts that there has been one fluctuating, but still continuous, multifaceted quest for the historical Jesus from the beginning. By the end of the twentieth century, a more trusting attitude towards the historical reliability of sources gradually replaced Enlightenment skepticism. E. P. Sanders explains that, because of the desire to know everything about Jesus, including his thoughts and motivations, and because there are such varied conclusions about him, it seems to many scholars that it is impossible to be certain about anything. Yet according to Sanders, \"we know a lot\" about Jesus. Sanders' view characterizes most contemporary studies. Reflecting this shift, the phrase \"quest for the historical Jesus\" has largely been replaced by \"life of Jesus research\". The lasting achievement of the contemporary quest has been sensitizing scholars to Jesus' Jewish environment.\n\nAt first, biblical historical criticism and its deductions and implications were so unpopular outside liberal Protestant scholarship it created a schism in Protestantism. The American fundamentalist movement of the 1920s and 1930s began, at least partly, as a response to nineteenth century liberalism. Some fundamentalists believed liberal critics had invented an entirely new religion \"completely at odds with the Christian faith\". However, there were also conservative Protestants who accepted it. William Robertson Smith (1846–1894) is an example of a nineteenth century evangelical who believed historical criticism was a legitimate outgrowth of the Protestant Reformation's focus on the biblical text. He saw it as a \"necessary tool to enable intelligent churchgoers\" to understand the Bible, and was a pioneer in establishing the final form of the supplementary hypothesis of the documentary hypothesis. A similar view was later advocated by the Primitive Methodist biblical scholar A. S. Peake (1865–1929). Other evangelical Protestant scholars such as Edwin M. Yamauchi, Paul R. House, and Daniel B. Wallace have continued the tradition of conservatives contributing to critical scholarship.\nMonseigneur Joseph G. Prior says, \"Catholic studies in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries avoided the use of critical methodology because of its rationalism [so there was] no significant Catholic involvement in biblical scholarship until the nineteenth century.\" In 1890, the French Dominican Marie-Joseph Lagrange (1855–1938) established the École Biblique in Jerusalem to encourage study of the Bible using the historical-critical method. Two years later he funded a journal, spoke thereafter at various conferences, wrote Bible commentaries that incorporated textual critical work of his own, did pioneering work on biblical genres and forms, and laid the path to overcoming resistance to the historical-critical method among his fellow scholars. However, Pope Leo XIII (1810–1903) condemned biblical scholarship based on rationalism in his encyclical letter \"Providentissimus Deus\" (\"On the Study of Holy Scripture\") on 18 November 1893. It declared that no exegete was allowed to interpret a text to contradict church doctrine. Later, in 1943 on the fiftieth anniversary of the \"Providentissimus Deus\", Pope Pius XII issued the papal encyclical \"Divino afflante spiritu\" ('Inspired by the Holy Spirit') sanctioning historical criticism, opening a new epoch in Catholic critical scholarship. The Jesuit Augustin Bea (1881–1968) had played a vital part in its publication. This tradition is continued by Catholic scholars such as John P. Meier, Bernard Orchard, and Reginald C. Fuller.\n\nHebrew Bible scholar Marvin A. Sweeney argues that some Christian theological assumptions within biblical criticism have reached anti-semitic conclusions. This has discouraged Jews from engaging in biblical criticism. Hebrew Bible scholar Jon D. Levenson described how some Jewish scholars, such as rabbinicist Solomon Schechter , saw biblical criticism of the Pentateuch as a threat to Jewish identity. The growing anti-semitism in Germany of the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, the perception that higher criticism was an entirely Christian pursuit, and the sense many Bible critics were not impartial academics but were proponents of supersessionism, prompted Schechter to describe \"\"Higher Criticism\" as \"Higher Anti-semitism\"\". Professor of Hebrew Bible Baruch J. Schwartz states that these perceptions delayed Jewish scholars from entering the field of biblical criticism. These problems began to be corrected in the modern era. The Holocaust led to Christian theologians rethinking ways to relate to Judaism, and the entry of Jewish scholars into academic departments from which they had formerly been excluded aided that process.\n\nThe first historical-critical Jewish scholar of Pentateuchal studies was M. M. Kalisch in the nineteenth century. In the early twentieth century, historical criticism of the Pentateuch became mainstream among Jewish scholars. In 1905, Rabbi David C. Hoffman wrote an extensive, two-volume, philologically based critique of the Wellhausen theory, which supported Jewish orthodoxy. Bible professor Benjamin D. Sommer says it is \"among the most precise and detailed commentaries on the legal texts <nowiki>[</nowiki>Leviticus and Deuteronomy<nowiki>]</nowiki> ever written.\" Yehezkel Kaufmann was the first Jewish scholar to appreciate fully the import of higher criticism. Mordechai Breuer, who branches out beyond most Jewish exegesis and explores the implications of historical criticism for multiple subjects, is an example of a contemporary Jewish biblical critical scholar.\n\nSocio-scientific criticism is part of the wider trend in biblical criticism reflecting interdisciplinary methods and diversity. It grew out of form criticism's \"Sitz im Leben\" and the sense that historical form criticism had failed to adequately analyze the social and anthropological contexts which form criticism claimed had formed the texts. Using the perspectives, theories, models, and research of the social sciences to determine what social norms may have influenced the growth of biblical tradition, it is similar to historical biblical criticism in its goals and methods. It has less in common with literary critical approaches. It analyzes the social and cultural dimensions of the text and its environmental context.\nIn the 1940s and 1950s the term \"postmodern\" came into use to signify a rejection of modern conventions. Many of these early postmodernist views came from France following World War II. Postmodernism has been associated with Karl Marx, Sigmund Freud, radical politics, and arguments against metaphysics and ideology. Soulen and Soulen quote French philosopher Jean-François Lyotard saying \"I define postmodernism as incredulity toward meta-narratives.\" Biblical scholar A. K. M. Adam says postmodernism is not so much a method as a stance. It has three general features: 1) it denies any privileged starting point for truth; 2) it is critical of theories that attempt to explain the \"totality of reality\"; and 3) it attempts to show that all \"ideals\" are grounded in ideological, economic or political self-interest. Postmodernists are suspicious of traditional theology and the neutrality of reason, and emphasize relativism and indeterminacy of texts. In textual criticism, postmodernists reject the idea of a sacred text, treating all manuscripts as equally valuable.\n\nFeminist criticism is an aspect of the feminist theology movement which began in the 1960s and 1970s in the context of Second Wave feminism in the United States. Feminist theology has been ground-breaking in biblical criticism, disrupting the long-standing exclusivity of Christian theology as Western. In the 1980s, Phyllis Trible and Elisabeth Schüssler Fiorenza reframed biblical criticism itself by challenging the supposed disinterest and objectivity it claimed for itself and exposing how ideological-theological stances had played a critical role in interpretation. Feminist biblical interpreters are characterized by the claim that classical models of understanding are patriarchal and therefore that makes it impossible for those models to identify the true contribution of women. Feminist criticism embraces a reader-response approach to the text that includes an attitude of \"dissent\" or \"resistance.\"\n\nPost-critical biblical interpretation shares the postmodernist suspicion of non-neutrality of traditional approaches, but is not hostile toward theology. It begins with the understanding that historical biblical criticism's focus on historicity produced a distinction between the meaning of what the text says and what it is about (what it references). This produced doubts about the text's veracity. The theologian Hans Frei writes that what he refers to as the \"realistic narratives\" of literature, including the Bible, don't allow for such separation. Subject matter is identical to verbal meaning and is found in plot and nowhere else. \"As Frei puts it, scripture 'simultaneously depicts and renders the reality (if any) of what it talks about'; its subject matter is 'constituted by, or identical with, its narrative'.\"\n\nPsychological biblical criticism applies psychology to biblical texts; it was not until the 1990s that it began to have an influence among the new critical approaches. Bible scholar Wayne Rollins says the goal of a psychological critical approach is to find expressions of the human psyche in the biblical texts. It can be used in both a historical and a literary manner to examine the psychological dimensions of scripture through the use of the behavioral sciences.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8413028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8413028", "title": "Black Radical Congress", "text": "Black Radical Congress\n\nThe Black Radical Congress or BRC is an organization founded in 1998 in Chicago. It is a grassroots network of individuals and organizations of African descent focused on advocating for broad progressive social justice, racial equality and economic justice goals within the United States.\n\nAt the organizing congress in Chicago in June 1998, 2,000 people participated in creating the organization. However, their first mission predates the organizing congress, having been publicly endorsed and published by a number of high-profile black scholars and activists on 16 March 1998.\n\nOn 17 April 1999, the BRC ratified a \"freedom agenda\" listing 15 objectives dealing with racial and economic justice in the United States. The National Council of the BRC adopted a mission statement on 26 September 1999 in East St. Louis, Illinois. The opening paragraph states:\n\nThe purpose of the Black Radical Congress (BRC) is to promote dialogue among African American activists and scholars on the left; to discuss critical issues on the national and international scene that pertain to the Black community; to explore new strategies and directions for progressive political, social and cultural movements; and to renew the Black radical movement through increased unified action.\n\nThe complete mission statement discusses approaches to radical democratic methods involving conferences, forums and publications. \"Principles of unity\" were also adopted, stating that the BRC was established as a \"center without walls\" focusing on \"transformative politics that focuses on the conditions of Black working and poor people.\"\n\nA national organizing conference was convened in Detroit in 2000, and other conferences have taken place in subsequent years. \n\nThe BRC has both individual and organizational memberships. It is headed by a National Congress.\n\nEach year, the BRC chooses a different \"theme\" to focus its work on; past themes have included anti-militarism and the prison-industrial complex.\n\nThe BRC has at least two caucuses, subgroups within the organization, the labor and working-class caucus and the Pat Parker Queer Caucus.\n\nThe BRC has local chapters in Washington, D.C.; the San Francisco Bay Area; Sacramento, California; Minneapolis; St. Louis; New York City; Raleigh, North Carolina; Philadelphia and Pittsburgh.\n\nThe BRC states: \"Black is not necessarily a color or hue, but encompasses all peoples of African descent.\" Their work is focused on racial justice as well as broader social and economic justice as it intersects with the politics of race and racial oppression.\n\n\"Radical means getting to the root causes of society's injustices and working for root-level, fundamental change. Radicalism is an honored tradition in Black political history.\"\n\nThe BRC has many ties to the Communist Party, USA, although the Congress does not explicitly identify itself as communist, socialist or Marxist.\n\nA number of high-profile black scholars and activists endorsed the creation of the BRC on 16 March 1998:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4977551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4977551", "title": "Brian Weatherson", "text": "Brian Weatherson\n\nBrian Weatherson is the Marshall Weinberg Professor of Philosophy at The University of Michigan. Prior to this, he was an Associate Professor of Philosophy at Rutgers University, and also taught at Cornell's Sage School of Philosophy, Brown University, and Syracuse University. \n\nAustralian born, he received his PhD from Monash University in 1998, with a dissertation on formal models for reasoning under uncertainty, titled \"On Uncertainty.\" His areas of expertise are Epistemology, Metaphysics, Philosophy of Language, and Decision Theory.\n\nHe runs a philosophy-themed blog, \"Thoughts, Arguments, and Rants\" and is a contributing member of the political blog Crooked Timber.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "498812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=498812", "title": "Cancer support group", "text": "Cancer support group\n\nCancer support groups are meetings that offer a safe space for people affected by cancer to share their experiences and emotions with others in similar situations. Much of the sociological construction of these groups is similar to other kinds of other types of support groups.\n\nAlthough the experience of people diagnosed with cancer varies greatly from one person to another, they all need a good support system in order to cope throughout the different stages of the process. Different support systems have thus been developed including community support groups, online cancer support groups, networks, forums, and charitable organizations. Community support groups are usually led by psychologists, social workers, and medical professionals and can take place in churches, hospitals, or community centers. \n\nOnline support groups and forums are a good option for those patients who find it difficult to leave their home during treatment. People participating in such forums have the possibility to maintain their anonymity. Support systems range from those that address patients suffering from specific types of cancer to those that support patients suffering from any kind of cancer.\n\nApart from having to cope with the physical and medical challenges, people with cancer face many worries, feelings, and concerns unique to their situation. Cancer patients may find that they need help coping with the emotional as well as the practical aspects of their disease. In fact, attention to the emotional burden of having cancer is often a part of a patient's treatment plan. The support of the health care team (doctors, nurses, social workers), support groups, and patient-to-patient networks can help people feel less isolated and distressed, and improve the quality of their lives. \n\nMore importantly cancer support groups can provide access to the most current information regarding available treatments. Anyone suffering from an uncommon form of cancer should consider joining a specialized online community to gain access to information often not available anywhere else. Cancer support groups provide a setting in which cancer patients can talk about living with cancer with others who may be having similar experiences. \n\nAlso, patients may have different concerns stemming from their particular situation in life which may warrant a special support group that caters specifically to their needs. For example, there are support groups dedicated to helping women of certain ages through their cancer experience. Patients may want to speak to a member of their health care team about finding a support group that best suits their needs. Many also find useful basic information in NCI fact sheets and booklets, including \"Taking Time and Facing Forward\".\n\nApart from various improvements in confidence, wellbeing, stress, and interpersonal comfort, cancer support groups are being studied for their direct effects on improving the health of people who attend them. Some small-scale tests have compared members of a breast cancer support group at Stanford against a control group and found significant benefits associated with group membership. These studies are currently being repeated on a larger scale. Some theories about these benefits ascribe health improvements to reduced stress from talking about emotional issues, the placebo effect, learning about treatment options through interaction with others with common issues. A large-scale research project of cancer online communities is ongoing and may provide some answers about the use of cancer online mailing lists by their subscribers.\n\nThere are many cancer support groups available. The American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) offers cancer patients and their families doctor-approved information on the website cancer.net where people can search for both general cancer and cancer-specific support groups.\n\nThe American Cancer Society has developed the Cancer Survivors Network aimed to help cancer survivors, families and friends find and communicate with others who share their interests and experiences.\n\nThe Cancer Support Community is an international non-profit that offers personalized services and education to support people affected by cancer. This initiative started operations after The Wellness Community and Gilda's Club joined together to provide psychological and social support through their network of 50 local affiliates, more than 100 satellite locations and online services.\n\nMacmillan Cancer Support is a cancer care and support charity in the UK devoted to help improve the lives of people affected by any kind of cancer. It was founded in 1911 by Douglas Macmillan and it is now the largest of its kind in the UK. They support people living with cancer, their families and carers as well. The ways in which they help are very broad and address information needs as well as practical, emotional and financial support. On the one hand, they provide information leaflets, specialist medical care and support. Moreover, this organization fights discrimination and campaign for changes in policy, legislation and practice. \n\nMacmillan also funds nurses and other specialists in health and social care professionals. They have funded over 4,000 health and social care professionals across the UK. These professionals helped 432,000 people in 2008 that included not only cancer patients and their families, but also carers and friends. Macmillan works together with NHS, local authorities, Citizens Advice and other cancer charities.\n\nThe Susan G. Komen for the Cure is a non-profit organization created in 1982 to raise money for research and awareness of breast cancer. It is the world's largest network of breast cancer survivors and activists as well as the largest source of nonprofit funds dedicated to the fight against breast cancer in the world.\n\nCanCare is a non-profit cancer support network with a mission to improve the quality of life for cancer survivors and their families. This support comes from trained volunteers who themselves have experienced and survived a cancer diagnosis or have been a caregiver to someone who has.\n\nNepal Cancer Support Group (NCSG) is a non government organization registered to Nepal Government was established in 2010 with an intention to promote awareness regarding cancer prevention, screening, treatment, counselling, experience sharing and advocacy by accumulating cancer survivors,their family members, health professionals, social workers, interested individuals and volunteers to form a group. This group is led by Medical Oncologist Sudeep Shrestha of Nepal.\n\nLIVESTRONG is a global cancer support and research organization. It originated from the Lance Armstrong Foundation (LAF), which was founded by Lance Armstrong in 1997, after he was diagnosed with advanced testicular cancer in 1996. Their motto is “Unity is strength, knowledge is power, and attitude is everything.” They are about helping people live their life with cancer and helping them fight to overcome it. They provide support and resources to all people affected by cancer. They help fund cancer research, as well as do their own research projects. \n\nAdditionally, they have a platform to influence public policy to help everyone affected by cancer on the local, national, and global level. Globally, they are helping all countries develop and adopt a national cancer plan, and encouraging governments to support efforts to reduce cancer stigma. Nationally, they are trying to make it easier for cancer patients to have access to quality cancer care. Locally, they are trying to increase investments in cancer research and support programs.\n\nStand Up to Cancer (shortened to S↑2C or SU2C) is a charity program designed to raise funds for cancer research. It was established by media, entertainment, and philanthropic leaders who were diagnosed with cancer. Their premise is to spread awareness that everyone is affected by cancer. They use the statistic “One out of two men, and one out of three women, will be diagnosed with cancer” to emphasize that cancer affects everyone, whether they are diagnosed or know someone who has been diagnosed. \n\nThey kick started their campaign with a telethon in September 2008 that raised over $100 million. Since then, they have had many different fundraising methods, including their Mobile Giving campaign, which has raised tens of thousands of dollars, and their online project, The Constellation, where people can “launch a star” for a dollar in honor of friends, family, and loved ones in their lives who are dealing with cancer.\n\nBear Necessities is a cancer foundation created to help eliminate pediatric cancer and to provide hope and support to those affected by it. It was created by eight-year-old Barrett “Bear” Krupa and his mother. Bear was battling a Wilms Tumor for five and half years, and during that time, he was dedicated to helping other people fight pediatric cancer, more than he was concerned with himself. This foundation was created in memory of him in order to help others beat pediatric cancer.\n\nJo's Cervical Cancer Trust is the UK's only charity dedicated to those affected by cervical cancer and cervical abnormalities. It offers a range of online and face to face support and information including: information materials, a Helpline 0808 802 8000, online forum, local support groups and an Ask the Expert service.\n\nImerman Angels was created on the belief that no one should have to fight cancer alone and provides 1-on-1 cancer support by pairing those diagnosed with cancer with 'Mentor Angels' (survivors) who have survived the same kind of cancer. The service is free and helps anyone touched by any type of cancer, at any time, anywhere in the world.\n\nAdditionally, online support communities can assist in self-management of the disease. Effective self-management of a disease can help alleviate costs associated with health care.\n\nSupport for rare cancers is particularly problematic, as patients may be a long way from specialist treatment centers, and also from other patients with whom they might gain support and advice. The advent of the internet has allowed support groups for these rare cancers to emerge on a global basis, providing one to one and group oriented advice and support to patients and their families who may live on different continents, yet are able to share symptoms, experiences and advice, for example on diet or pain relief. \n\nOrganizations such as European Organisation for Rare Diseases assist in coordinating and providing support for such organizations. Examples of such support groups include pseudomyxomasurvivor who provide support for patients suffering from pseudomyxoma peritonei and have active communities particularly in the USA and Canada, Australia and New Zealand and the United Kingdom and Ireland, as well as continental Europe.\n\n"}
{"id": "26460200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26460200", "title": "Charter for Innovation, Creativity and Access to Knowledge", "text": "Charter for Innovation, Creativity and Access to Knowledge\n\nThe Charter for innovation, creativity and access to knowledge contains suggested legal requirements, guidelines for education and access to knowledge, and structural requirements for a knowledge-based society. The guidelines were discussed by more than a hundred representatives during the first Free Culture Forum, which took place in Barcelona from October 30 to November 1, 2009.\n\nThe Charter was used as an international reference during consultation with the Department of Digital Culture (Government of Brazil). It was used to negotiate sustainable laws with the Spanish Government, and the proposals were presented to the European Council during the Spanish Presidency of the European Union in 2010. Among the Charter's endorsers there are Jimmy Wales, Boaventura de Sousa Santos, Consumers International, Electronic Frontier Foundation, David Bollier, Students for Free Culture, European Digital Rights, Participatory Culture Foundation, La Quadrature du Net, Transnational Institute, Department of Digital Culture(Government of Brazil), Pirat Partie, Creative Commons España, La-EX, and Networked Politics.\n\n"}
{"id": "159669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=159669", "title": "Chinese astrology", "text": "Chinese astrology\n\nChinese astrology is based on the traditional astronomy and calendars. The development of Chinese astrology is tied to that of astronomy, which came to flourish during the Han Dynasty (2nd century BC to 2nd century AD).\n\nChinese astrology has a close relation with Chinese philosophy (theory of the three harmony: heaven, earth, and water), and uses the principles of yin and yang and concepts that are not found in Western astrology, such as the Wu Xing teachings, the 10 Celestial stems, the 12 Earthly Branches, the lunisolar calendar (moon calendar and sun calendar), and the time calculation after year, month, day, and shichen (時辰).\n\nChinese astrology was elaborated during the Zhou dynasty (1046–256 BC) and flourished during the Han Dynasty (2nd century BC to 2nd century AD). During the Han period, the familiar elements of traditional Chinese culture—the Yin-Yang philosophy, the theory of the 5 elements, the concepts of Heaven and Earth, and Confucian morality—were brought together to formalize the philosophical principles of Chinese medicine and divination, astrology and alchemy.\n\nThe 5 classical planets are associated with the Wu Xing:\n\nAccording to Chinese astrology, a person's destiny can be determined by the position of the major planets at the person's birth along with the positions of the Sun, Moon, comets, the person's time of birth, and zodiac Sign. The system of the twelve-year cycle of animal signs was built from observations of the orbit of Jupiter (the Year Star; ). Following the orbit of Jupiter around the sun, Chinese astronomers divided the celestial circle into 12 sections, and rounded it to 12 years (from 11.86). Jupiter is associated with the constellation \"Sheti\" (- Boötes) and is sometimes called Sheti.\n\nA system of computing one's fate and destiny based on one's birthday, birth season, and birth hours, known as Zi Wei Dou Shu (), or Purple Star Astrology, is still used regularly in modern-day Chinese astrology to divine one's fortune. The 28 Chinese constellations, \"Xiu\" (), are quite different from Western constellations. For example, the Big Bear (Ursa Major) is known as \"Dou\" (); the belt of Orion is known as \"Shen\" (), or the \"Happiness, Fortune, Longevity\" trio of demigods. The seven northern constellations are referred to as \"Xuan Wu\" (). Xuan Wu is also known as the spirit of the northern sky or the spirit of Water in Taoism belief.\n\nIn addition to astrological readings of the heavenly bodies, the stars in the sky form the basis of many fairy tales. For example, the Summer Triangle is the trio of the cowherd (Altair), the weaving maiden fairy (Vega), and the \"tai bai\" fairy (Deneb). The two forbidden lovers were separated by the silvery river (the Milky Way). Each year on the seventh day of the seventh month in the Chinese calendar, the birds form a bridge across the Milky Way. The cowherd carries their two sons (the two stars on each side of Altair) across the bridge to reunite with their fairy mother. The tai bai fairy acts as the chaperone of these two immortal lovers.\n\nChinese astrology has a close relation with Chinese philosophy which the core values and concepts are originated from Taoism or \"Tao\".\n\nThe 60-year cycle consists of two separate cycles interacting with each other. The first is the cycle of ten heavenly stems, namely the Five Elements (in order Wood, Fire, Earth, Metal, and Water) in their Yin and Yang forms.\n\nThe second is the cycle of the twelve zodiac animal signs (生肖 \"shēngxiào\") or Earthly Branches. They are in order as follows: the Rat, Ox, Tiger, Rabbit, Dragon, Snake, Horse, Goat, Monkey, Rooster, Dog, and Pig. In Vietnam the Rabbit is replaced by the cat.\n\nThis combination creates the 60-year cycle due to the fewest number of years (least common multiple) it would take to get from \"Yang Wood Rat\" to its next iteration, which always starts with \"Yang Wood Rat\" and ends with \"Yin Water Pig\". Since the zodiac animal cycle of 12 is divisible by two, every zodiac sign can occur only as either Yin or Yang: the Dragon is always yang, the Snake is always yin, etc. The current cycle began in 1984 (as shown in \"Table of the sixty-year calendar\" below).\n\nWhen trying to traverse the lunisolar calendar, an easy rule to follow is that years that end in an even number are yang, those that end with an odd number are yin. The cycle proceeds as follows:\n\nHowever, since the (traditional) Chinese zodiac follows the (lunisolar) Chinese calendar, the switch-over date is the Chinese New Year, not January 1 as in the Gregorian calendar. Therefore, a person who was born in January or early February may have the sign of the previous year. For example, if a person was born in January 1970, his or her element would still be Yin Earth, not Yang Metal. Similarly, although 1990 was called the year of the Horse, anyone born from January 1 to January 26, 1990, was in fact born in the Year of the Snake (the sign of the previous year), because the 1990 Year of the Horse did not begin until January 27, 1990. For this reason, many online sign calculators (and Chinese restaurant place mats) may give a person the wrong sign if he/she was born in January or early February.\n\nThe start of a new zodiac is also celebrated on Chinese New Year along with many other customs.\n\nThe following table shows the 60-year cycle matched up to the Western calendar for the years 1924–2043 (see sexagenary cycle article for years 1804–1923). This is only applied to Chinese Lunar calendar. The sexagenary cycle begins at lichun 'about February 4' according to some astrological sources.\n\nAlthough it is usually translated as 'element' the Chinese word \"xing\" literally means something like 'changing states of being', 'permutations' or 'metamorphoses of being'. In fact, Sinologists cannot agree on one single translation. The Chinese conception of 'element' is therefore quite different from the Western one. The Western elements were seen as the basic building blocks of matter. The Chinese 'elements', by contrast, were seen as ever changing and translation of \"xing\" is simply 'the five changes'.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nLogical coherence with twelve things.\n\n"}
{"id": "32323638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32323638", "title": "Co-ment", "text": "Co-ment\n\nco-ment is an online word processor allowing collaborative writing and commenting. It was inspired by the software package stet, which was created to handle the GNU GPL version 3 online revision. It is free software, available under Affero GPL.\n\nCo-ment allows groups of users to collaboratively elaborate online texts. It offers a wiki-style editing environment, supporting many syntaxes, and allows some finely controlled layouts, including table or images.\n\nIts main interest is its comment feature, allowing users to attach their remarks to specific extracts of text, leading to a text building procedure based on strong and equipped debates.\n\nAdvanced comment navigation features are also provided to help discover new annotations or go through the history of a debate. It's also possible to set up email alerts on text edits or new comments.\n\nCo-ment is fitted with many import/export formats support: TXT, DOC, ODT, HTML. Co-ment has a special focus on layout respect of exported file types.\n\nIt is available as a free web service, extended by pro accounts following the WordPress model. Source code is available on the website, and it's also bundled as a Drupal module.\n\nSome of the greatest use cases of co-ment are for education, in particular first language and literature teaching in secondary education.\n\nCo-ment is inspired by stet, the tool created to handle the online revision of the GPL v3, and has been since used for other licenses such as the Mozilla Public License and the Creative Commons licence family.\n\nCo-ment is also used for legal works, for administrative works and for advocacy works.\n\n"}
{"id": "2669581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2669581", "title": "Cornell realism", "text": "Cornell realism\n\nCornell realism is a view in meta-ethics, associated with the work of Richard Boyd, Nicholas Sturgeon, and David Brink (who took his Ph.D. at Cornell University). There is no recognized and official statement of Cornell realism, but several theses are associated with the view.\n\nMoral realism is the view that there are mind-independent, and therefore objective, moral facts that moral judgments are in the business of describing. This combines a cognitivist view about moral judgments (that they are belief-like mental states in the business of describing the way the world is), a view about the \"existence\" of moral facts (that they do in fact exist), and a view about the \"nature\" of moral facts (that they are objective: independent of our cognizing them or our stance towards them). This contrasts with expressivist theories of moral judgment (\"e.g.\", Stevenson, Hare, Blackburn, Gibbard), error-theoretic/fictionalist denials of the existence of moral facts (\"e.g.\", Mackie, Richard Joyce, and Kalderon), and constructivist or relativist theories of the nature of moral facts (\"e.g.\", Firth, Rawls, Korsgaard, Harman).\n\nCornell realism accepts motivational externalism, which is the view that moral judgments need not have any motivational force at all. A common way of explaining the thesis invokes the claim that amoralists are possible – that there could be someone who makes moral judgments without feeling the slightest corresponding motivation. This gives Cornell realists a simple response to Humean arguments against cognitivism: if moral judgments do not have motivational force in the first place, there is no reason to think they are non-cognitive states. Some, like Brink, add to this motivational externalism an externalism about normative reasons, which denies that there is any necessary connection or relation between what one has reason to do and what one is motivated to do (or would be motivated to do, if one were fully rational and knew all of the facts).\n\nCornell realism accepts the view that moral facts are natural facts. They fall within the province of the natural and social sciences. But while they are not supernatural (as in divine command theory) and they are not non-natural (as in Moore's \"Principia Ethica\" or Mackie's picture of a realist world), they cannot be reduced to non-moral natural facts. That is, while moral facts are natural facts and supervene on non-moral natural facts, they cannot be identified with non-moral natural facts (see, e.g., Miller's An Introduction to Contemporary Metaethics).\n\nThere is no reductive connection between \"moral\" terms and concepts and \"natural\" terms and concepts. This gives Cornell realists a simple response to the charge that you cannot have naturalism without naturalistic fallacy: namely, that metaphysical reduction doesn't imply semantic reduction. This usually goes with a Kripke-Putnam semantic story: moral terms and concepts pick out certain natural properties in virtue of those properties standing in an appropriate causal (social-historical) relation to our tokenings of the terms and concepts.\n\n"}
{"id": "27893106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27893106", "title": "David Tracy", "text": "David Tracy\n\nDavid Tracy (b. January 6 1939) is an American theologian and Catholic priest. He is Andrew Thomas Greeley and Grace McNichols Greeley Distinguished Service Professor Emeritus of Catholic Studies at the University of Chicago Divinity School.\n\nTracy was born in 1939 to John Charles Tracy and Eileen Marie Tracy (née Rossell) in Yonkers, NY. He had two brothers, John Jr. and Arthur. His father was a union organizer who loved to read Henry Adams to his children.\n\nFeeling an intense call to the priesthood as an adolescent, Tracy started attending the Cathedral School in 1952. The Cathedral School served as a high school and minor seminary for the Archdiocese of New York. In 1960, he left New York for Rome to study at the Gregorianum. His vocation to study theology was profoundly encouraged by the Second Vatican Council taking place at that time. He was ordained in Rome on December 18, 1963, and served in the diocese of Bridgeport, Connecticut in 1963. Tracy received his Licentiate of Sacred Theology from the Pontifical Gregorian University in 1964, after which he spent one year working at a parish in Stamford, CT. Tracy has said that he had always wanted to work in a parish, but during his one year of doing so, he felt a strong call to the academic life. He returned to Rome and received his doctorate from the Gregorian University in 1969.\n\nTracy's first academic teaching appointment was a lectureship at the Catholic University of America in Washington, D.C., where he began in 1967. In 1968, Tracy joined with Bernard McGinn and twenty other professors at CUA in rejecting Pope Paul VI's encyclical Humanae Vitae. He and the others were tried by CUA's faculty senate and summarily fired. They sued the university, were represented by ACLU lawyers, and ultimately won their case.\n\nIn the midst of this trial, Jerald Brauer, then Dean of the University of Chicago Divinity School, convinced Tracy (as well as McGinn) to come to the University of Chicago. In 1985, Tracy was named a Distinguished Service Professor there, and in 1987, a Distinguished Service Professor of Roman Catholic Studies. Tracy also held the Andrew Thomas Greeley and Grace McNichols Greeley Professorship in Roman Catholic Studies, which was established in 1984 by sociologist and novelist Andrew Greeley. He also served on Chicago's Committee on the Analysis of Ideas and Methods and the Committee on Social Thought. Tracy remained at the Divinity School until his retirement in late 2006.\n\nTracy served as President of the Catholic Theological Society of America from 1976-1977. In 1980, that organization awarded him the John Courtney Murray Award, the highest award of the society. In 1982, he was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.\n\nIn 1999-2000, Tracy gave the Gifford Lectures at the University of Edinburgh. The title of his lectures was \"This Side of God\". The Gifford Lectures are widely considered to be the highest honor for those working in theology and religious studies.\n\nIn 2018, Tracy contributed an essay to the catalog of the Metropolitan Museum of Art exhibition \"Heavenly Bodies: Fashion and the Catholic Imagination\". Tracy was described by Andrew Bolton, the curator of the exhibition, as \"the J. D. Salinger of the theological world.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52468094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52468094", "title": "Do it for Denmark", "text": "Do it for Denmark\n\nDo it for Denmark is a Danish media and advertising campaign designed to increase the birth rate of the nation. The campaign, launched by the Danish travel agency Spies Rejser, is envisioned as a way to stop the population decline present in Denmark. Following the implementation of the campaign in 2014, the Danish birth rate increased.\n"}
{"id": "5257925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5257925", "title": "Family Constellations", "text": "Family Constellations\n\nFamily Constellations, also known as Systemic Constellations and Systemic Family Constellations, is an alternative therapeutic method which draws on elements of family systems therapy, existential phenomenology and Zulu attitudes to family. In a single session, a Family Constellation attempts to reveal a supposedly unrecognized systemic dynamic that spans multiple generations in a given family and to resolve the deleterious effects of that dynamic by encouraging the subject to encounter representatives of the past and accept the factual reality of the past.\n\nFamily Constellations diverges significantly from conventional forms of cognitive, behaviour and psychodynamic psychotherapy. The method has been described by physicists as quantum quackery, and its founder Bert Hellinger incorporates the pseudoscientific idea of morphic resonance into his explanation of it. Positive outcomes from the therapy have been attributed to conventional explanations such as suggestion and empathy.\n\nPractitioners claim that present-day problems and difficulties may be influenced by traumas suffered in previous generations of the family, even if those affected now are unaware of the original event in the past. Hellinger referred to the relation between present and past problems that are not caused by direct personal experience as \"Systemic entanglements,\" said to occur when unresolved trauma has afflicted a family through an event such as murder, suicide, death of a mother in childbirth, early death of a parent or sibling, war, natural disaster, emigration, or abuse. The psychiatrist Iván Böszörményi-Nagy referred to this phenomenon as \"Invisible Loyalties\".\n\nThe philosophical orientation of Family Constellations were derived through an integration of existential phenomenology family systems therapy and elements of indigenous spiritual mysticism.\n\nThe phenomenological lineage can be traced through philosophers Franz Brentano, Edmund Husserl and Martin Heidegger. This perspective stands in contrast to the positivist reductionist orientation of the scientific psychology. Rather than understanding mind, emotion and consciousness in terms of its constituent parts, existential phenomenology opens perception to the full panorama of human experience and seeks to grasp a sense of meaning.\n\nFamily Constellations take their form from family systems psychology. Leading figures in this movement whose influence can be recognized include Jacob Moreno, the founder of psychodrama; Iván Böszörményi-Nagy, the pioneer of transgenerational systemic thinking; Milton Erickson, a pioneer of brief therapy and hypnotherapy; Eric Berne who conceived the concept of \"life scripts\"; and Virginia Satir, who developed family sculpture, the precursor of Systemic Constellations. In the past decade, further advancements in the use of the process have been innovated by practitioners throughout the world.\n\nThe process draws from indigenous spiritual mysticism to contribute towards releasing tensions, lightening emotional burdens, and resolving real-world problems. Hellinger lived as a Roman Catholic priest in South Africa for 16 years in the 1950s and 1960s. During these years, he became fluent in the Zulu language, participated in Zulu rituals, and gained an appreciation for the Zulu worldview.\n\nOf particular importance is the difference between traditional Zulu attitudes toward parents and ancestors and those typically held by Europeans. Heidegger postulated that to be human is to find oneself thrown into a world with no clear logical, ontological, or moral structure. In Zulu culture, Hellinger found a certitude and equanimity that were the hallmarks of Heidegger's elusive authentic Self. The traditional Zulu people lived and acted in a religious world in which the ancestors were the central focal point. The ancestors were regarded as positive, constructive, and creative presences. The connection with ancestors is a central feature of the Constellation process.\n\nThe term \"Family Constellations\" was first used by Alfred Adler in a somewhat different context to refer to the phenomenon that each individual belongs to and is bonded in relationship to other members of his or her family system.\n\nThis description is the prototype group Family Constellation as developed by Bert Hellinger in the 1990s. Many practitioners have blended Constellation work with psychological aspects of healing. Others have kept the classic form as taught by Bert Hellinger, such as the Constellation Approach. The Constellation Approach merges concepts of Family Constellations, energy medicine, and consciousness studies to complement the understanding of classic Constellation methodology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "81974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81974", "title": "Franz Brentano", "text": "Franz Brentano\n\nFranz Clemens Honoratus Hermann Brentano (; ; 16 January 1838 – 17 March 1917) was an influential German philosopher, psychologist, and priest whose work strongly influenced not only students Edmund Husserl, Sigmund Freud, Tomáš Masaryk, Rudolf Steiner, Alexius Meinong, Carl Stumpf, Anton Marty, Kazimierz Twardowski, and Christian von Ehrenfels, but many others whose work would follow and make use of his original ideas and concepts.\n\nBrentano was born at , near Boppard. He was the son of Christian Brentano, the brother of Lujo Brentano, and the nephew of Clemens Brentano and Bettina von Arnim. He studied philosophy at the universities of Munich, Würzburg, Berlin (with Adolf Trendelenburg) and Münster. He had a special interest in Aristotle and scholastic philosophy. He wrote his dissertation in 1862 at Tübingen under the title \"Von der mannigfachen Bedeutung des Seienden nach Aristoteles\" (\"On the Several Senses of Being in Aristotle\"). His thesis advisor was Franz Jakob Clemens. Subsequently, he began to study theology and entered the seminary in Munich and then Würzburg. He was ordained a Catholic priest on 6 August 1864.\n\nIn 1865/66 he wrote and defended his habilitation thesis, \"Die Psychologie des Aristoteles, insbesondere seine Lehre vom Nous Poietikos\" (\"The Psychology of Aristotle, in Particular His Doctrine of the Active Intellect\"), and began to lecture at the University of Würzburg. His students in this period included, among others, Carl Stumpf and Anton Marty. Between 1870 and 1873 Brentano was heavily involved in the debate on papal infallibility. A strong opponent of such dogma, he eventually gave up his priesthood and his tenure in 1873 and in 1879 left the church altogether. He remained, however, deeply religious and dealt with the topic of the existence of God in lectures given at the Universities of Würzburg and Vienna.\n\nIn 1874 Brentano published his major work, \"Psychology from an Empirical Standpoint\". From 1874 to 1895 he taught at the University of Vienna; among his students were Edmund Husserl, Sigmund Freud, Tomáš Masaryk, Rudolf Steiner, Alexius Meinong, Carl Stumpf, Anton Marty, Kazimierz Twardowski, and Christian von Ehrenfels and many others (see School of Brentano for more details). While he began his career as a full ordinary professor, he was forced to give up both his Austrian citizenship and his professorship in 1880 in order to marry, but he was permitted to stay at the university only as a \"Privatdozent\". After his retirement in 1895 (soon after the death of his wife), he moved to Florence in Italy, transferring to Zürich at the outbreak of the First World War, where he died in 1917.\n\nBrentano is best known for his reintroduction of the concept of intentionality—a concept derived from scholastic philosophy—to contemporary philosophy in his lectures and in his work \"Psychologie vom empirischen Standpunkt\" (\"Psychology from an Empirical Standpoint\"). While often simplistically summarised as \"aboutness\" or the relationship between mental acts and the external world, Brentano defined it as the main characteristic of \"mental phenomena\", by which they could be distinguished from \"physical phenomena\". Every mental phenomenon, every psychological act has content, is directed at an object (the \"intentional object\"). Every belief, desire etc. has an object that they are about: the believed, the desired. Brentano used the expression \"intentional inexistence\" to indicate the status of the objects of thought in the mind. The property of being intentional, of having an intentional object, was the key feature to distinguish psychological phenomena and physical phenomena, because, as Brentano defined it, physical phenomena lacked the ability to generate \"original intentionality\", and could only facilitate an intentional relationship in a second-hand manner, which he labeled \"derived intentionality\".\n\nBrentano introduced a distinction between genetic psychology (\"genetische Psychologie\") and descriptive psychology (\"beschreibende\" or \"deskriptive Psychologie\"): in his terminology, genetic psychology is the study of psychological phenomena from a third-person point of view, which involves the use of empirical experiments (satisfying, thus, the scientific standards we nowadays expect of an empirical science). (This concept is roughly equivalent to what is now called empirical psychology, cognitive science, or \"heterophenomenology\", an explicitly third-person, scientific approach to the study of consciousness.) The aim of descriptive psychology, on the other hand, is to describe consciousness from a first-person point of view. The latter approach was further developed by Husserl and the phenomenological tradition.\n\nHe is also well known for claiming that \"Wahrnehmung ist Falschnehmung\" ('perception is misception') that is to say perception is erroneous. In fact he maintained that external, sensory perception could not tell us anything about the \"de facto\" existence of the perceived world, which could simply be illusion. However, we can be absolutely sure of our internal perception. When I hear a tone, I cannot be completely sure that there is a tone in the real world, but I am absolutely certain that I do hear. This awareness, of the fact that I hear, is called internal perception. External perception, sensory perception, can only yield hypotheses about the perceived world, but not truth. Hence he and many of his pupils (in particular Carl Stumpf and Edmund Husserl) thought that the natural sciences could only yield hypotheses and never universal, absolute truths as in pure logic or mathematics.\n\nHowever, in a reprinting of his \"Psychologie vom Empirischen Standpunkte\" (\"Psychology from an Empirical Standpoint\"), he recanted this previous view. He attempted to do so without reworking the previous arguments within that work but it has been said that he was wholly unsuccessful. The new view states that when we hear a sound, we hear something from the external world; there are no physical phenomena of internal perception.\n\nBrentano has a theory of judgment which is different from what is currently the predominant (Fregean) view. At the centre of Brentano’s theory of judgment lies the idea that a judgment depends on having a presentation, but this presentation does not have to be predicated. Even stronger: Brentano thought that predication is not even necessary for judgment, because there are judgments without a predicational content. Another fundamental aspect of his theory is that judgments are always existential. This so-called existential claim implies that when someone is judging that S is P he/she is judging that some S that is P exists. (Note that Brentano denied the idea that all judgments are of the form: S is P [and all other kinds of judgment which combine presentations]. Brentano argued that there are also judgments arising from a single presentation, e.g. “the planet Mars exists” has only one presentation.) In Brentano’s own symbols, a judgment is always of the form: ‘+A’ (A exists) or ‘–A’ (A does not exist).\n\nCombined with the third fundamental claim of Brentano, the idea that all judgments are either positive (judging that A exists) or negative (judging that A does not exist), we have a complete picture of Brentano’s theory of judgment. So, imagine that you doubt whether midgets exist. At that point you have a presentation of midgets in your mind. When you judge that midgets do not exist, then you are judging that the presentation you have does not present something that exists. You do not have to utter that in words or otherwise predicate that judgment. The whole judgment takes place in the denial (or approval) of the existence of the presentation you have.\n\nThe problem of Brentano’s theory of judgment is not the idea that all judgments are existential judgments (though it is sometimes a very complex enterprise to transform an ordinary judgment into an existential one), the real problem is that Brentano made no distinction between object and presentation. A presentation exists as an object in your mind. So you cannot really judge that A does not exist, because if you do so you also judge that the presentation is not there (which is impossible, according to Brentano’s idea that all judgments have the object which is judged as presentation). Kazimierz Twardowski acknowledged this problem and solved it by denying that the object is equal to the presentation. This is actually only a change within Brentano’s theory of perception, but has a welcome consequence for the theory of judgment, viz. that you can have a presentation (which exists) but at the same time judge that the object does not exist.\n\nThe young Martin Heidegger was very much inspired by Brentano's early work \"On the Several Senses of Being in Aristotle\".\nBrentano's focus on conscious (or phenomenal) intentionality was inherited by Carl Stumpf's Berlin School of experimental psychology, Anton Marty's Prague School of linguistics, Alexius Meinong's Graz School of experimental psychology, Kasimir Twardowski's Lwów School of philosophy, and Husserlian phenomenology. Brentano's work also influenced George Stout, the teacher of G. E. Moore and Bertrand Russell at Cambridge University.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4166932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4166932", "title": "Gnosticism in modern times", "text": "Gnosticism in modern times\n\nGnosticism in modern times includes a variety of contemporary religious movements, stemming from Gnostic ideas and systems from ancient Roman society. Gnosticism is an ancient name for a variety of religious ideas and systems, originating in Jewish-Christian milieux in the first and second century CE.\n\nThe Mandaens are an ancient Gnostic sect still active in Iran and Iraq with small communities in other parts of the world.\n\nThe late 19th century saw the publication of popular sympathetic studies making use of recently rediscovered source materials. In this period there was also the revival of a Gnostic religious movement in France. The emergence of the Nag Hammadi library in 1945 greatly increased the amount of source material available. Its translation into English and other modern languages in 1977 resulted in a wide dissemination, and as a result had observable influence on several modern figures, and upon modern Western culture in general. This article attempts to summarize those modern figures and movements that have been influenced by Gnosticism, both prior and subsequent to the Nag Hammadi discovery.\n\nA number of ecclesiastical bodies that identify as Gnostic have set up or re-founded since World War II as well, including the Ecclesia Gnostica, Johannite Church, Ecclesia Gnostica Catholica, the Thomasine Church, (not to be confused with the St. Thomas Christians of India) the Alexandrian Gnostic Church, and the North American College of Gnostic Bishops.\n\nSource materials were discovered in the 18th century. In 1769 the Bruce Codex was brought to England from Upper Egypt by the Scottish traveller James Bruce, and subsequently bequeathed to the care of the Bodleian Library, Oxford. Sometime prior to 1785 The Askew Codex (a.k.a. \"Pistis Sophia\") was bought by the British Museum from the heirs of Dr. Askew. \"Pistis Sophia\" text and Latin translation of the Askew Codex by M. G. Schwartze were published in 1851. Although discovered in 1896 the Coptic Berlin Codex (a.k.a. the Akhmim Codex), was not 'rediscovered' until the 20th century.\n\nCharles William King was a British writer and collector of ancient gemstones with magical inscriptions. His collection was sold because of his failing eyesight, and was presented in 1881 to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York. King was recognized as one of the greatest authorities on gems.\n\nIn \"The Gnostics and their Remains\" (1864, 1887 2nd ed.) King sets out to show that rather than being a Western heresy, the origins of Gnosticism are to be found in the East, specifically in Buddhism. This theory was embraced by Blavatsky, who argued that it was \"plausible\", but rejected by GRS Mead. According to Mead, King's work \"lacks the thoroughness of the specialist.\"\n\nHelena Petrovna Blavatsky, co-founder of the Theosophical Society, wrote extensively on Gnostic ideas. A compilation of her writings on Gnosticism is over 270 pages long. The first edition of King's \"The Gnostics and Their Remains\" was repeatedly cited as a source and quoted in \"Isis Unveiled\".\n\nG. R. S. Mead became a member of Blavatsky's Theosophical Society in 1884. He left the teaching profession in 1889 to become Blavatsky's private secretary, which he was until her death in 1891. Mead's interest in Gnosticism was likely awakened by Blavatsky who discussed it at length in \"Isis Unveiled\".\n\nIn 1890–1891 Mead published a serial article on Pistis Sophia in \"Lucifer\" magazine, the first English translation of that work. In an article in 1891, Mead argues for the recovery of the literature and thought of the West at a time when Theosophy was largely directed to the East. Saying that this recovery of Western antique traditions is a work of interpretation and \"the rendering of tardy justice to pagans and heretics, the reviled and rejected pioneers of progress...\" This was the direction his own work was to take.\n\nThe first edition of his translation of \"Pistis Sophia\" appeared in 1896. From 1896–1898 Mead published another serial article in the same periodical, \"Among the Gnostics of the First Two Centuries,\" that laid the foundation for his monumental compendium \"Fragments of a Faith Forgotten\" in 1900. Mead serially published translations from the \"Corpus Hermeticum\" from 1900–1905. The next year he published \"Thrice-Greatest Hermes\" a massive comprehensive three volume treatise. His series \"Echoes of the Gnosis\" was published in 12 booklets in 1908. By the time he left the Theosophical Society in 1909, he had published many influential translations, commentaries, and studies of ancient Gnostic texts. \"Mead made Gnosticism accessible to the intelligent public outside of academia\". Mead's work has had and continues to have widespread influence.\n\nAfter a series of visions and archival finds of Cathar-related documents, a librarian named Jules-Benoît Stanislas Doinel du Val-Michel (a.k.a. Jules Doinel) establishes the \"Eglise Gnostique\" (French: \"Gnostic Church\"). Founded on extant Cathar documents with the Gospel of John and strong influence of Simonian and Valentinian cosmology, the church was officially established in the autumn of 1890 in Paris, France. Doinel declared it \"the era of Gnosis restored.\" Liturgical services were based on Cathar rituals. Clergy was both male and female, having male bishops and female \"sophias.\"\n\nDoinel resigned and converted to Roman Catholicism in 1895, one of many duped by Léo Taxil's anti-masonic hoax. Taxil unveiled the hoax in 1897. Doinel was readmitted to the Gnostic church as a bishop in 1900.\n\nCarl Gustav Jung evinced a special interest in Gnosticism from at least 1912, when he wrote enthusiastically about the topic in a letter to Freud. After what he called his own 'encounter with the unconscious,' Jung sought for external evidence of this kind of experience. He found such evidence in Gnosticism, and also in alchemy, which he saw as a continuation of Gnostic thought, and of which more source material was available. In his study of the Gnostics, Jung made extensive use of the work of GRS Mead. Jung visited Mead in London to thank him for the \"Pistis Sophia\", the two corresponded, and Mead visited Jung in Zürich.\n\nJung saw the Gnostics not as syncretic schools of mixed theological doctrines, but as genuine visionaries, and saw their imagery not as myths but as records of inner experience. He wrote that \"The explanation of Gnostic ideas 'in terms of themselves,' i.e., in terms of their historical foundations, is futile, for in that way they are reduced only to their less developed forestages but not understood in their actual significance.\" Instead, he worked to understand and explain Gnosticism from a psychological standpoint. While providing something of an ancient mirror of his work, Jung saw \"his psychology not as a contemporary \"version\" of Gnosticism, but as a contemporary \"counterpart\" to it.\"\n\nJung reported a series of experiences in the winter of 1916-17 that inspired him to write \"Septem Sermones ad Mortuos\" (Latin: Seven Sermons to the Dead).\n\nThrough the efforts of Gilles Quispel, the \"Jung Codex\" was the first codex brought to light from the Nag Hammadi Library. It was purchased by the Jung Institute and ceremonially presented to Jung in 1953 because of his great interest in the ancient Gnostics. First publication of translations of Nag Hammadi texts in 1955 with \"the Jung Codex\" by H. Puech, Gilles Quispel, and W. Van Unnik.\n\nJean Bricaud had been involved with the Eliate Church of Carmel of , the remnants of Fabré-Palaprat's \"Église Johannite des Chrétiens Primitifs\" (Johannite Church of Primitive Christians), and the Martinist Order before being consecrated a bishop of the \"Église Gnostique\" in 1901. In 1907 Bricaud established a church body that combined all of these, becoming patriarch under the name Tau Jean II. The impetus for this was to use the Western Rite. Briefly called the \"Église Catholique Gnostique\" (Gnostic Catholic Church), it was renamed the \"Église Gnostique Universelle\" (Universal Gnostic Church, EGU) in 1908. The close ties between the church and Martinism were formalized in 1911. Bricaud received consecration in the Villate line of apostolic succession in 1919.\n\nThe original church body founded by Doinel continued under the name \"Église Gnostique de France\" (Gnostic Church of France) until it was disbanded in favor of the EGU in 1926. The EGU continued until 1960 when it was disbanded by Robert Amberlain (Tau Jean III) in favor of the \"Église Gnostique Apostolique\" that he had founded in 1958. It is active in France (including Martinique), Ivory Coast, and the Midwestern United States.\n\nThe use of the term 'gnostic' by sexual magic groups is a modern phenomenon. Hugh Urban concludes that, \"despite the very common use of sexual symbolism throughout Gnostic texts, there is little evidence (apart from the accusations of the early church) that the Gnostics engaged in any actual performance of sexual rituals, and certainly not anything resembling modern sexual magic.\" Modern sexual magic began with Paschal Beverly Randolph. The connection to Gnosticism came by way of the French Gnostic Church with its close ties to the strong esoteric current in France, being part of the same highly interconnected milieu of esoteric societies and orders from which the most influential of sexual magic orders arose, the Ordo Templi Orientis (Order of Oriental Templars, OTO).\n\nTheodor Reuss founded the OTO as an umbrella occult organization with sexual magic at its core. After Reuss came into contact with French Gnostic Church leaders at a Masonic and Spiritualist conference in 1908, he founded \"Die Gnostische Katholische Kirche\" (the Gnostic Catholic Church), under the auspices of the OTO. Reuss subsequently dedicated the OTO to the promulgation of Crowley's philosophy of Thelema. It is for this church body, called in Latin the Ecclesia Gnostica Catholica (EGC), that Aleister Crowley wrote the \"Ecclesiæ Gnosticæ Catholicæ Canon Missæ\" (\"Canon of the Mass of the Gnostic Catholic Church\"), the central ritual of the OTO that is now commonly called the Gnostic Mass.\n\nThe Gnostic Society, was founded for the study of gnosticism in 1928 and incorporated in 1939 by Theosophists James Morgan Pryse and his brother John Pryse in Los Angeles. Since 1963 it has been under the direction of Stephan Hoeller and operates in association with the Ecclesia Gnostica. Initially begun as an archive for a usenet newsgroup in 1993, the Gnosis Archive became the first web site to offer historic and source materials on Gnosticism.\n\nThe Gospel of Thomas, held to be the most complete of the Nag Hammadi texts, is the subject of the book \"The Mustard Seed\" by Indian mystic Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh, also known as Osho.\n\nEstablished in 1953 by Richard Duc de Palatine in England under the name 'the Pre-nicene Gnostic Catholic Church', the Ecclesia Gnostica (Latin: \"Church of Gnosis\" or \"Gnostic Church\") is said to represent 'the English Gnostic tradition', although it has ties to, and has been influenced by, the French Gnostic church tradition. It is affiliated with the Gnostic Society, an organization dedicated to the study of Gnosticism. The presiding bishop is the Rt. Rev. Stephan A. Hoeller, who has written extensively on Gnosticism.\n\nCentered in Los Angeles, the Ecclesia Gnostica has parishes and educational programs of the Gnostic Society spanning the Western US and also in the Kingdom of Norway. The lectionary and liturgical calendar of the Ecclesia Gnostica have been widely adopted by subsequent Gnostic churches, as have the liturgical services in use by the church, though in somewhat modified forms.\n\nThe Ecclesia Gnostica Mysteriorum (EGM), commonly known as \"the Church of Gnosis\" or \"the Gnostic Sanctuary,\" was initially established in Palo Alto by bishop Rosamonde Miller as a parish of the Ecclesia Gnostica, but soon became an independent body with emphasis on the experience of gnosis and the balance of the divine masculine and feminine principles. The Gnostic Sanctuary is now located in Redwood City, California. The EGM also claims a distinct lineage of Mary Magdalene from a surviving tradition in France.\n\nSamael Aun Weor left the FRA after the death of Arnold Krumm Heller. He reports an experience of being called to his new mission by the venerable White Lodge (associated with Theosophy). Samael Aun Weor taught a \"New Gnosis,\" consisting of sexual union between man and woman, without the ejaculation of the sexual liquid. He called this the \"Arcanum AZF\". For him it is \"the synthesis of all religions, schools and sects.\"\n\nMoving through Latin America, he finally settled in Mexico where he founded the Movimiento Gnostico Cristiano Universal (MGCU) (Universal Gnostic Christian Movement), then subsequently founded the Iglesia Gnostica Cristiana Universal (Universal Gnostic Christian Church) and the Associacion Gnostica de Estudios Antropologicos Culturales y Cientificos (AGEAC) (Gnostic Association of Scientific, Cultural and Anthropological Studies) to spread his teachings.\n\nThe MGCU became defunct by the time of Samael Aun Weor's death in December 1977. However, his disciples subsequently formed new organizations to spread his teachings, under the umbrella term 'the International Gnostic Movement'. These organizations are currently very active via the Internet and have centers established in Latin America, the US, Australia, Canada and Europe.\n\nThe philosopher Hans Jonas wrote extensively on Gnosticism, interpreting it from an existentialist viewpoint. For some time, his study \"The Gnostic Religion: The message of the alien God and the beginnings of Christianity\" published in 1958, was widely held to be a pivotal work, and it is as a result of his efforts that the Syrian-Egyptian/Persian division of Gnosticism came to be widely used within the field. The second edition, published in 1963, included the essay \"Gnosticism, Existentialism, and Nihilism.\"\n\nIn the 1950s, Eric Voegelin entered into an academic debate concerning the classification of modernity following Karl Löwith's 1949 \"Meaning in History: the Theological Implications of the Philosophy of History\"; and Jacob Taubes's 1947 \"Abendländishe Eschatologie\". In this context, Voegelin put forward his \"gnosticism thesis\": criticizing modernity by identifying an \"immanentist eschatology\" as the \"gnostic nature\" of modernity. Differing with Löwith, he did not criticize eschatology as such, but rather the immanentization which he described as a \"pneumopathological\" deformation. Voegelin's gnosticism thesis became popular in neo-conservative and cold war political thought.\n\nGnosticism has seen something of a resurgence in popular culture in the late 20th and early 21st centuries. This may be related, certainly, to the sudden availability of Gnostic texts to the reading public, following the emergence of the Nag Hammadi library.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29173955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29173955", "title": "Gregorio Bermann", "text": "Gregorio Bermann\n\nGregorio Bermann (1894–1972) was an Argentine psychiatrist, philosopher, activist, author, and humanist. Born in Buenos Aires to Polish Jewish immigrants, he was the youngest of ten siblings, eight of which had been Born in Poland. He was a leader in the student movement Argentine University Federation in Cordoba during the first half of the 20th century. \n\nHe was married three times, first to Leonilda Barrancos, with whom he fathered two children, Sylvia and Claudio, then to soprano Isa Kremer though they were together many years they were not legally wed. He diagnosed her Cancer prior to her death in the Fifties. He was last married to Dolores, who survived his own death in Cordoba. She mourned amongst other world leaders he had befriended, such as Salvador Allende from the neighboring Chile. He also had personal ties, through his travels that were far and wide, to President Roosevelt's wife, Eleanor, and Argentine \nrevolutionary Che Guevara, about whom he was doing research in preparation for his next book, just prior to his death, following \"Mental Health in China\" which had been translated into several languages. He was also survived by two children, both Psychiatrists in the family tradition. \n\nBermann's son, Claudio, managed his father's Clinic (see next section) until he was jailed during the \"Dirty Wars\" era of Military Dictatorship in Argentina. His incarceration was due to the publication of his article, which claimed that the police force was corrupt and accused them of stealing. Eventually, Claudio was able to leave the country following a request from Kissinger. It is believed that the famous political figure noticed a lot of attention was being placed on this man's whereabouts that could endanger covert activities in that area.\n\nThe Clinic was then managed by Sylvia once she returned from teaching in the University in Mexico, where she fled to shortly after her daughter, Irene Torrents, was detained, tortured, and tossed into the ocean, still alive, by the Military (Her body has never been found...). Torrents daughter was whisked out of the country with Sylvia and her surviving child, Norah to the D.F., Mexico. After the Military left office Sylvia returned to the management of the Clinic, until the Government Contract with the P.A.M.I. (The Argentine National Service to Retired Personnel) was lost due to her refusal to pay a bribe to the official in charge of handing-out contracts. Due to lack of funds, the building eventually was lost to the crediting Banks that had been generating loans.\n\nBermann had a highly influential role in the university reform of 1918 in Argentina, which spread throughout the country and influenced the way Higher Education was taught in many other Latin countries. It even influencing the Student movements on the U.S. and France during the sixties, note the student riots in France in 1968. He continued to play an active role in university reform up into the 1930s. He founded the \"Bermann Clinic\" for Mental Health in \"Las Rosas\" Cordoba, after getting his degree in Psychiatry. He also studied German in order to interview Sigmund Freud in his own tongue, which he did, an entry in Freud's schedule cites the meeting with Dr. Bermann. Gregorio also brought Freudian Psychoanalysis to Argentina, and the rest of Latin America, and was the founder of the Latin American Psychiatric Association over which he presided for a number of years. His other passion was politics, and during the Spanish Civil War he leased a plane and took 16 colleagues with him to fight Hitler's new brand of Fascism in the form of General Franco. He was a Medic during the War, and it was during such times that he befriended Humanists and writers such as Miguel de Unamuno, Federico Garcia Lorca, etc. He published twenty books total, 10 on psychiatry, psychology and psychoanalysis, and also published 10 books and journal articles relating to philosophy and politics.\n\nIn politics, he was a socialist; he joined the Socialist Party of Cordoba in the 1920s and he was part of the intellectual network of the Communist Party from the 1930s onwards, participating in the anti-fascist movement and in the opposition to various right-wing governments through the years, including that of Juan Perón. However, in the 1960s he moved away from the Soviet-aligned party and towards the Cuban and to some extent Chinese versions of communism.\n"}
{"id": "1290247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1290247", "title": "Hans Kelsen", "text": "Hans Kelsen\n\nHans Kelsen (; ; October 11, 1881 – April 19, 1973) was an Austrian jurist, legal philosopher and political philosopher. He is author of the 1920 Austrian Constitution, which to a very large degree is still valid today. Due to the rise of totalitarianism in Austria (and a 1929 constitutional change), Kelsen left for Germany in 1930 but was forced to leave this university post after Hitler's seizure of power in 1933 because of his Jewish ancestry. That year he left for Geneva and later moved to the United States in 1940. In 1934, Roscoe Pound lauded Kelsen as \"undoubtedly the leading jurist of the time.\" While in Vienna, Kelsen met Sigmund Freud and his circle, and wrote on the subject of social psychology and sociology.\n\nBy the 1940s, Kelsen's reputation was already well established in the United States for his defense of democracy and for his Pure Theory of Law. Kelsen's academic stature exceeded legal theory alone and extended to political philosophy and social theory as well. His influence encompassed the fields of philosophy, legal science, sociology, the theory of democracy, and international relations.\n\nLate in his career while at the University of California, Berkeley, although officially retired in 1952, Kelsen rewrote his short book of 1934, \"Reine Rechtslehre\" (\"Pure Theory of Law\"), into a much enlarged \"second edition\" published in 1960 (it appeared in an English translation in 1967). Kelsen throughout his active career was also a significant contributor to the theory of judicial review, the hierarchical and dynamic theory of positive law, and the science of law. In political philosophy he was a defender of the state-law identity theory and an advocate of explicit contrast of the themes of centralization and decentralization in the theory of government. Kelsen was also an advocate of the position of separation of the concepts of state and society in their relation to the study of the science of law.\n\nThe reception and criticism of Kelsen's work and contributions has been extensive with both ardent supporters and detractors. Kelsen's contributions to legal theory of the Nuremberg trials was supported and contested by various authors including Dinstein at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem. Kelsen's neo-Kantian defense of continental legal positivism was supported by H. L. A. Hart in its contrasting form of Anglo-American legal positivism, which was debated in its Anglo-American form by scholars such as Ronald Dworkin and Jeremy Waldron.\n\nKelsen was born in Prague into a middle-class, German-speaking, Jewish family. His father, Adolf Kelsen, was from Galicia, and his mother, Auguste Löwy, was from Bohemia. Hans was their first child; there would be two younger brothers and a sister. The family moved to Vienna in 1884, when Hans was three years old. After graduating from the Akademisches Gymnasium, Kelsen studied law at the University of Vienna, taking his doctorate in law (Dr. juris) on 18 May 1906 and his habilitation on 9 March 1911. Twice in his life, Kelsen converted to separate religious denominations. At the time of his dissertation on Dante and Catholicism, Kelsen was baptised as a Roman Catholic on 10 June 1905. On 25 May 1912 he married Margarete Bondi (1890–1973), the two having converted a few days earlier to Lutheranism of the Augsburg Confession; they would have two daughters.\nKelsey's doctoral thesis on Dante's theory of the state in 1905 became his first book on political theory. In this book Kelsen made explicit his preference for the reading of Dante Alighieri's \"Divine Comedy\" as largely based in political allegory. The study makes a rigorous examination of the \"two swords doctrine\" of Pope Gelasius I, along with Dante's distinct sentiments in the Roman Catholic debates between the Guelphs and Ghibellines, and Kelsen's conversion to Catholicism was contemporaneous to the book's completion in 1905. In 1908 Kelsen won a research scholarship which allowed him to attend the University of Heidelberg for three consecutive semesters, where he studied with the distinguished jurist Georg Jellinek before returning to Vienna.\n\nThe closing chapter of Kelsen's study of political allegory in Dante also was important for emphasizing the particular historical path which led directly to the development of modern law in the twentieth century. After emphasizing Dante's importance to this development of legal theory, Kelsen then indicated the historical importance of Niccolò Machiavelli and Jean Bodin to these historical transitions in legal theory leading to modern twentieth century law. In the case of Machiavelli, Kelsen saw an important counter-example of an exaggerated executive part of government operating without effective legal restraints on responsible conduct. For Kelsen, this would be instrumental in the orientation of his own legal thinking in the direction of strong rule of law government, with a heightened emphasis on the central importance of a fully elaborated power of judicial review.\n\nKelsen's time at Heidelberg was of lasting importance to him in that he began to solidify his position of the identity of law and state from the initial steps he observed as being taken by Jellinek. Kelsen's historical reality was to be surrounded by the dualistic theories of law and state prevailing in his time. The major question for Jellinek and Kelsen, as stated by Baume is, \"How can the independence of the state in a dualist perspective be reconciled with its status (as) representative of the legal order? For dualistic theorists there remains an alternative to monistic doctrines: the theory of the self-limitation of the state. Georg Jellinek is an eminent representative of this theory, which allows one to avoid reducing the state to a legal entity, and also to explain the positive relationship between law and state. The self-limitation of the sphere of the state presupposes that the state, as a sovereign power, by the limits that it imposes on itself, becomes a rule-of-law state.\" For Kelsen, this was appropriate for as far as it went yet it still remained a dualistic doctrine and therefore Kelsen rejected it stating: \"The problem of the so-called auto-obligation of the State is one of those pseudo-problems that result from the erroneous dualism of State and law. This dualism is, in turn, due to a fallacy of which we meet numerous examples in the history of all fields of human thought. Our desire for the intuitive representation of abstractions leads us to personify the unity of a system, and then to hypostasize the personification. What originally was only a way of representing the unity of a system of objects becomes a new object, existing in its own right.\" Kelsen was joined in this critique by the distinguished French jurist Léon Duguit, who wrote in 1911: \"Self-limitation theory (vis Jellinek) contains some real sleight of hand. Voluntary subordination is not subordination. The state is not really limited by the law if the state alone can introduce and write this law, and if it can at any time make any changes that it wants to make in it. This kind of foundation of public law is clearly extremely fragile.\" As a result, Kelsen solidified his position endorsing the doctrine of the identity of law and state.\n\nIn 1911, he achieved his habilitation (license to give university lectures) in public law and legal philosophy, with a thesis that became his first major work on legal theory, \"Hauptprobleme der Staatsrechtslehre entwickelt aus der Lehre vom Rechtssatze\" (\"Main Problems in Theory of Public Law, Developed from Theory of the Legal Statement\"). In 1919, he became full professor of public and administrative law at the University of Vienna, where he established and edited the \"Zeitschrift für öffentliches Recht\" (Journal of Public Law). At the behest of Chancellor Karl Renner, Kelsen worked on drafting a new Austrian Constitution, enacted in 1920. The document still forms the basis of Austrian constitutional law. Kelsen was appointed to the Constitutional Court, for his lifetime. Kelsen's emphasis during these years upon a Continental form of legal positivism began to further flourish from the standpoint of his law-state monism, somewhat based upon the previous examples of Continental legal positivism found in such scholars of law-state dualism such as Paul Laband (1838–1918) and Carl Friedrich von Gerber (1823–1891).\n\nDuring the early 1920s he published six major works in the areas of government, public law, and international law: in 1920, \"Das Problem der Souveränität und die Theorie des Völkerrechts\" (The Problem of Sovereignty and Theory of International Law) and \"Vom Wesen und Wert der Demokratie\" (On the Essence and Value of Democracy); in 1922, \"Der soziologische und der juristische Staatsbegriff\" (The Sociological and Juristic Concepts of the State); in 1923, \"Österreichisches Staatsrecht\" (Austrian Public Law); and, in 1925, \"Allgemeine Staatslehre\" (General Theory of the State), together with \"Das Problem des Parlamentarismus\" (The Problem of Parliamentarianism). In the late 1920s, these were followed by \"Die philosophischen Grundlagen der Naturrechtslehre und des Rechtspositivismus\" (The Philosophical Foundations of the Doctrine of Natural Law and Legal Positivism).\n\nDuring the 1920s, Kelsen continued to promote his celebrated theory of the identity of law and state which made his efforts a counterpoint to the position of Carl Schmitt who advocated for the priority of the political concerns of the state. Kelsen was supported in his position by Adolf Merkl and Alfred Verdross, while opposition to his view was voiced by Erich Kaufman, Hermann Heller, and Rudolf Smend. An important part of Kelsen's main practical legacy is as the inventor of the modern European model of constitutional review. This was first introduced in both Austria and Czechoslovakia in 1920, and then latter in the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Spain, Portugal, and later many countries of Central and Eastern Europe.\n\nAs described above, the Kelsenian court model set up a separate constitutional court which was to have sole responsibility over constitutional disputes within the judicial system. Kelsen was the primary author of its statutes in the state constitution of Austria as he documents in his 1923 book cited above. This is different from the system usual in common-law countries, including the USA, in which courts of general jurisdiction from the trial level up to the court of last resort frequently have powers of constitutional review. Following increasing political controversy about some positions of the Constitutional Court of Austria, Kelsen faced increasing pressure from the administration which appointed him to specifically address issues and cases concerning the providence of divorce provisions in state family law. Kelsen was inclined to a liberal interpretation of the divorce provision while the administration which had originally appointed him was responding to public pressure for the predominantly Catholic country to take a more conservative position on the issue of the curtailment of divorce. In this increasingly conservative climate, Kelsen, who was considered sympathetic to the Social Democrats, although not a party member, was removed from the court in 1930.\n\nIn her recent book on Kelsen, Sandrine Baume has summarized the confrontation between Kelsen and Schmitt at the very start of the 1930s. This debate was to reignite Kelsen's strong defense of the principle of judicial review against the principle of an authoritarian version of the executive branch of government which Schmitt had envisioned for national socialism in Germany. Kelsen wrote his scathing reply to Schmitt in his 1931 essay, \"Who Should Be the Guardian of the Constitution?\", in which he defended in plain terms the importance of judicial review over and against the excessive form of executive authoritarian government which Schmitt was promulgating in the early 1930s. As Baume states, \"Kelsen defended the legitimacy of the constitutional court by combating the reasons that Schmitt cites for assigning the role of the guardian of the Constitution to the President of the Reich. The dispute between these two lawyers was about which body of the state should be assigned the role of guardian of the German Constitution. Kelsen thought that this mission ought to be conferred on the judiciary, especially the Constitutional Court.\" Although Kelsen was successful in drafting sections for the Constitution in Austria for a strong court of judicial review, his sympathizers in Germany were less successful. Both Heinrich Triepel in 1924 and Gerhard Anschütz in 1926 were unsuccessful in their explicit drive to instill a strong version of judicial review in Germany's Weimar Constitution.\n\nKelsen accepted a professorship at the University of Cologne in 1930. When the National Socialists came to power in Germany in 1933, he was removed from his post. He relocated to Geneva, Switzerland where he taught international law at the Graduate Institute of International Studies from 1934 to 1940. During this time period, Hans Morgenthau departed from Germany to complete his habilitation dissertation in Geneva, which resulted in his book \"The Reality of Norms and In Particular the Norms of International Law: Foundations of a Theory of Norms\". By remarkable good fortune for Morgenthau, Kelsen had just arrived in Geneva as a professor and he became an adviser for Morgenthau's dissertation. Kelsen was among the strongest critics of Carl Schmitt because Schmitt was advocating for the priority of the political concerns of the state over the adherence by the state to the rule of law. Kelsen and Morgenthau were united against this National Socialist school of political interpretation which down-played the rule of law, and they became lifelong colleagues even after both had emigrated from Europe to take their respective academic positions in the United States. During these years, Kelsen and Morgenthau had both become \"persona non grata\" in Germany during the full rise to power of National Socialism.\n\nThat Kelsen was the principal defender of Morgenthau's \"Habilitationschrift\" is recently documented in the translation of Morgenthau's book titled \"The Concept of the Political\". In the introductory essay to the volume, Behr and Rosch indicate that the Geneva faculty under the examiners Walther Burckhardt and Paul Guggenheim were initially quite negative concerning Morgenthau's \"Habilitationschrift\". When Morgenthau had found a Paris publisher for the volume, he asked Kelsen to re-evaluate it. In the words of Behr and Rosch, \"Kelsen was the right choice to assess Morgenthau's thesis because not only was he a senior scholar in \"Staatslehre\", but Morgenthau's thesis was also largely a critical examination of Kelsen's legal positivism. Thus, it was Kelsen to whom Morgenthau 'owed his \"Habilitation\" in Geneva,' as Kelsen's biographer Rudolf Aladár Métall confirms, \"and\" also eventually his subsequent academic career, because Kelsen produced the positive evaluation that convinced the board of examiners to award Morgenthau his \"Habilitation\".\"\n\nIn 1934, at the age of 52, he published the first edition of \"Reine Rechtslehre\" (\"Pure Theory of Law\"). While in Geneva he became more deeply interested in international law. This interest in international law in Kelsen was in reaction largely to the Kellogg–Briand Pact in 1929 and his negative reaction to the vast idealism he saw represented in its pages, along with the lack of the recognition of sanctions for the illicit actions of belligerent states. Kelsen had come to endorse strongly the sanction-delict theory of law which he saw as substantially under-represented in the Kellogg–Briand Pact. In 1936–1938 he was briefly professor at the German University in Prague before returning to Geneva where he remained until 1940. His interest in international law would become especially focused in Kelsen's writings on international war crimes which he would redouble his efforts on behalf of after his departure to the United States.\n\nIn 1940, at the age of 58, he and his family fled Europe on the last voyage of the SS Washington, embarking on 1 June in Lisbon. He moved to the United States, giving the prestigious \"Oliver Wendell Holmes Lectures\" at Harvard Law School in 1942. He was supported by Roscoe Pound for a faculty position at Harvard but opposed by Lon Fuller on the Harvard faculty before becoming a full professor at the department of political science at the University of California, Berkeley in 1945. Kelsen was defending a position of the distinction of the philosophical definition of justice as it is separable from the application of positive law. As Fuller stated his opposition, \"I share the opinion of Jerome Hall, evidenced in this excellent \"Readings\", that jurisprudence should start with justice. I place this preference not on exhortatory grounds, but on a belief that until one has wrestled with the problem of justice one cannot truly understand the other issues of jurisprudence. Kelsen, for example, excludes justice from his studies (of practical law) because it is an 'irrational ideal' and therefore 'not subject to cognition.' The whole structure of his theory derives from that exclusion. The meaning of his theory can therefore be understood only when we have subjected to critical scrutiny its keystone of negation.\" Lon Fuller felt that the natural law position he was advocating against Kelsen was incompatible with Kelsen's dedication to the responsible use of positive law and the science of law. During the ensuing years, Kelsen increasingly dealt with issues of international law and international institutions such as the United Nations. In 1953-54, he was visiting Professor of International Law at the United States Naval War College.\n\nAnother part of Kelsen's practical legacy, as he has recorded, was the influence that his writings from the 1930s and early 1940s had upon the extensive and unprecedented prosecution of political leaders and military leaders at the end of WWII at Nuremberg and Tokyo, producing convictions in more than one thousand war crimes cases. For Kelsen, the trials were the culmination of approximately fifteen years of research he had devoted to this topic, which started still in his European years, and which he followed with his celebrated essay, \"Will the Judgment In the Nuremberg Trial Constitute a Precedent In International Law?,\" published in \"The International Law Quarterly\" in 1947. It was preceded in 1943 by Kelsen's essay, 'Collective and Individual Responsibility in International Law with Particular Regard to Punishment of War Criminals', 31 \"California Law Review\", p 530, and in 1944 by his essay, \"The Rule Against Ex Post Facto and the Prosecution of the Axis War Criminals,\" which appeared in \"The Judge Advocate Journal\", Issue 8.\n\nIn Kelsen's companion 1948 essay for \"J.Y.B.I.L.\" to his 1943 \"[...]War Criminals\" essay cited in the above paragraph titled, \"Collective and Individual Responsibility for Acts of State in International Law,\" Kelsen presented his thoughts on the distinction between the doctrine of \"respondeat superior\" and the acts of State doctrine when used as a defense during the prosecution of war crimes. On page 228 of the essay Kelsen states that, \"Acts of State are acts of individuals performed by them in their capacity as organs of the State, especially by that organ which is called the Government \"of\" the State. These acts are performed by individuals who belong to the Government as the head of State, or members of the cabinet, or are \"acts performed at its command or with the authorization of the Government\".\" Yoram Dinstein of Hebrew University in Jerusalem has taken exception to Kelsen's formulation in his book \"The Defense of 'Obedience to Superior Orders' in International Law\", reprinted in 2012 by Oxford University Press, dealing with Kelsen's specific attribution of acts of State.\n\nShortly after the initiation of the drafting of the UN Charter on 25 April 1945 in San Francisco, Kelsen began the writing of his extended 700-page treatise on the United Nations as a newly appointed professor at the University of California at Berkeley (\"The Law of the United Nations\", New York 1950). In 1952, he also published his book-length study about international law entitled \"Principles of International Law\" in English, and reprinted in 1966. In 1955, Kelsen turned to a 100-page essay, \"Foundations of Democracy,\" for the leading philosophy journal \"Ethics\"; written during the height of Cold War tensions, it expressed a passionate commitment to the Western model of democracy over soviet and national-socialist forms of government.\n\nThis 1955 essay by Kelsen on democracy was also important for summarizing his critical stance towards the 1954 book on politics by his former student in Europe Eric Voegelin. Following this, in Kelsen's book entitled \"A New Science of Politics\" (Ontos Verlag, reprinted in 2005, 140pp, originally published 1956), Kelsen enumerated a point by point criticism of the excessive idealism and ideology which he saw as prevailing in Voegelin's book on politics. This exchange and debate has been documented in the appendix to the book, written by the author on Voegelin, Barry Cooper, entitled \"Voegelin and the Foundations of Modern Political Science\" from 1999. Kelsen's other book defending his realist position regarding the issue of the separation of state and religion as opposed to that of Voegelin's position on this issue was published posthumously under the title \"Secular Religion.\" Kelsen's objective in part was to safeguard the importance of the responsible separation of state and religion for those sympathetic to religion and concerned with this separation. Kelsen's 1956 book was followed in 1957 by a collection of essays on justice, law and politics, most of them previously published in English. It had originally been published in the German language in 1953.\n\nKelsen is considered one of the preeminent jurists of the 20th century and has been highly influential among scholars of jurisprudence and public law, especially in Europe and Latin America although less so in common-law countries. His book titled \"Pure Theory of Law\" () was published in two editions, one in Europe in 1934, and a second expanded edition after he had joined the faculty at the University of California at Berkeley in 1960.\n\nKelsen's \"Pure Theory of Law\" is widely acknowledged as his magnum opus. It aims to describe law as a hierarchy of norms which are also binding norms while at the same time refusing, itself, to evaluate those norms. That is, 'legal science' is to be separated from 'legal politics'. Central to the \"Pure Theory of Law\" is the notion of a 'basic norm (\"Grundnorm\")'a hypothetical norm, presupposed by the theory, from which in a hierarchy all 'lower' norms in a legal system, beginning with constitutional law, are understood to derive their authority or 'bindingness'. In this way, Kelsen contends, the bindingness of legal norms, their specifically 'legal' character, can be understood without tracing it ultimately to some suprahuman source such as God, personified Nature or a personified State or Nation.\n\nThe \"Pure Theory of Law\" is generally considered among the most original contributions made by Hans Kelsen to legal theory. His book with that title was first published in 1934, and in a greatly expanded second edition (effectively a \"magnum opus\" doubled in length of presentation) in 1960. The second edition appeared in English translation in 1967, as \"Pure Theory of Law\"; the first edition appeared in English translation in 1992, as \"Introduction to the Problems of Legal Theory\". The theory proposed in this book has probably been the most influential theory of law produced during the 20th century. It is, at the least, one of the high points of modernist legal theory. However, the original terminology which was introduced in the first edition was already present in many of Kelsen's writings from the 1920s, and was also subject to discussion in the critical press of that decade. Although the second edition is so much longer, the two editions have a great deal of similar content.\n\nKelsen's theory both drew from and has been developed by scholars in his homelands, notably the Vienna School in Austria and the Brno School led by František Weyr in Czechoslovakia. It is stated that in the English-speaking world, and notably the \"Oxford school\" of jurisprudence\", Kelsen's influence can be seen in H. L. A. Hart, Julie Dickson, John Gardner, Leslie Green, Jim Harris, Tony Honoré, Joseph Raz and Richard Tur, and \"in the backhanded compliment of strenuous criticism, also in the work of John Finnis\". Among the principal writers in English on Kelsen are Robert S. Summers, Neil MacCormick and Stanley L. Paulson. Among Kelsen's principal critics today is Joseph Raz of Columbia University who has excoriated the reading of Nuremberg and the war crimes trials which Kelsen had interpreted in a consistent manner throughout the 1930s and 1940s at the end of his essay for \"Am. J. Juris.,\" p 94, (1974) titled \"Kelsen's Theory of the Basic Norm.\"\nSome mystery surrounds the belated publication, in 2012, of \"Secular Religion\". The text was begun in the 1950s, as an attack on work by his former pupil Eric Voegelin. In the early 1960s an expanded version was set up in proof but was withdrawn at Kelsen's insistence (and considerable personal expense in reimbursing the publisher), for reasons that have never become clear. However, the Hans Kelsen Institute eventually decided that it should be published. It is a vigorous defense of modern science against all, including Voegelin, who would overturn the accomplishments of the Enlightenment by demanding that science be guided by religion. Kelsen seeks to expose contradictions in their claim that modern science, after all, rests upon the same sorts of assumption as religionthat it constitutes forms of \"new religion\" and so should not complain when old religion is brought back in. Four major areas of Kelsen's contributions to legal theory over his lifetime included the following areas of (i) judicial review, (ii) hierarchical law, (iii) the de-ideologicalization of positive law to strongly disassociate all reference to natural law, and (iv) the clear delineation of the science of law and legal science in twentieth century modern law.\n\nJudicial review for Kelsen in the twentieth century was part of a tradition inherited from the common law tradition based upon the American constitutional experience as introduced by John Marshall. By the time the principle had reached Europe and specifically Kelsen, the issue of the codification of Marshall's common law version of judicial review into its form of constitutionally legislated law became an explicit theme for Kelsen. In drafting the constitutions for both Austria and Czechoslovakia, Kelsen chose to carefully delineate and limit the domain of judicial review to a narrower focus than was originally accommodated by John Marshall. Kelsen did receive a lifetime appointment to the court of judicial review in Austria and would remain on this court for almost an entire decade during the 1920s.\n\nHierarchical law as a model for understanding the structural description of the process of understanding and applying the law was central for Kelsen and he adopted the model directly from his colleague Adolf Merkl at the University of Vienna. The main purposes of the hierarchical description of the law would be three-fold for Kelsen. First, it was essential to understanding his celebrated static theory of law as elaborated in Chapter four of his book on the \"Pure Theory of Law\" (see subsection above). In its second edition, this chapter on the static theory of the law was almost one hundred pages in length and represented a comprehensive study of law capable of standing as an independent subject for research for legal scholars in this area of specialization. Second, it was a measure of relative centralization or decentralization. Third, a fully centralized system of law would also correspond to a unique Grundnorm or Basic norm which would not be inferior to any other norm in the hierarchy due to its placement at the utmost foundation of the hierarchy (see Grundnorm section below).\n\nKelsen, during the time period of his education and legal training in fin-de-siecle Europe, had inherited a highly ambiguous definition of natural law which could be presented as having metaphysical, theological, philosophical, political, religious, or ideological components depending on any one of numerous sources who might desire to utilize the term. For Kelsen, this ambiguity in the definition of natural made it unusable in any practical sense for a modern approach to understanding the science of law. Kelsen explicitly defined positive law to deal with the many ambiguities he associated with the use of natural law in his time, along with the negative influence which it had upon the reception of what was meant even by positive law in contexts apparently removed from the domain of influence normally associated with natural law.\n\nThe redefinition of the science of law and legal science to meet the requirements of modern law in the twentieth century was of significant concern to Kelsen. Kelsen would write book-length studies detailing the many distinctions to be made between the natural sciences and their associated methodology of causal reasoning in contrast to methodology of normative reasoning which he saw as more directly suited to the legal sciences. The science of law and legal science were key methodological distinctions which were of high importance to Kelsen in the development of the pure theory of law and the general project of removing ambiguous ideological elements from having undue influence on the development of modern twentieth century law. In his last years, Kelsen turned to a comprehensive presentation of his ideas on norms. The unfinished manuscript was published posthumously as \"Allgemeine Theorie der Normen\" (General Theory of Norms).\n\nDuring the last 29 years of his life at the University of California, Kelsen's appointment at the University and his affiliation was primarily with the Department of Politics and not with the School of Law. This is strongly reflected in his many writings in the field of political philosophy both before and after joining the Faculty at Berkeley. In fact, Kelsen's very first book (see Section above) was written about the political philosophy of Dante Alighieri and it was only with his second book that Kelsen started to write book length studies about the philosophy of law and its practical applications. Baume speaks of Kelsen's political philosophy concerning judicial review as coming closest to Ronald Dworkin and John Hart Ely among the scholars active after the end of Kelsen's life.\n\nIn order to gain a useful understanding of the breadth of Kelsen's interests in political philosophy, it is informative to examine Charles Covell's book titled \"The Redefinition of Conservatism\" from the 1980s in which Covell engages Kelsen in the philosophical context of Ludwig Wittgenstein, Roger Scruton, Michael Oakeshott, John Casey and Maurice Cowling. Although Kelsen's own political preferences were generally aimed towards more liberal forms of expression, Covell's perspective of modern liberal conservatism in his book provides an effective foil for bringing to light Kelsen's own points of emphasis within his own orientations in political philosophy. As Covell summarizes them, Kelsen's interests in political philosophy ranged across the fields of \"practical perspectives underlying morality, religion, culture, and social custom.\"\n\nAs summarized by Sandrine Baume in her recent book on Kelsen, \"In 1927 [Kelsen] recognized his debt to Kantianism on this methodological point that determined much of his pure theory of law: 'Purity of method, indispensable to legal science, did not seem to me to be guaranteed by any philosopher as sharply as by Kant with his contrast between Is and Ought. Thus for me, Kantian philosophy was from the very outset the light that guided me.'\" Kelsen's high praise of Kant in the absence of any specific neo-Kantians is matched among more recent scholars by John Rawls of Harvard University. Both Kelsen and Rawls also have made strong endorsements of Kant's books on \"\" (1795) and \"Idea for a Universal History\" (1784). In his book titled \"What is Justice?\", Kelsen indicated his position concerning social justice stating, \"[S]uppose that it is possible to prove that the economic situation of a people can be improved so essentially by so-called planned economy that social security is guaranteed to everybody in an equal measure; but that such an organization is possible only if all individual freedom is abolished. The answer to the question whether planned economy is preferable to free economy depends on our decision between the values of individual freedom and social security. Hence, to the question of whether individual freedom is a higher value than social security or vice versa, only a subjective answer is possible,\" Five principle areas of concern for Kelsen in the area of political philosophy can be identified among his many interests for their centrality and the effect which they exerted over virtually his entire lifetime. These are; (i) Sovereignty, (ii) Law-state identity theory, (iii) State-society dualism, (iv) Centralization-decentralization, and (v) Dynamic theory of law.\n\nThe definition and redefinition of sovereignty for Kelsen in the context of twentieth century modern law became a central theme for the political philosophy of Hans Kelsen from 1920 to the end of his life. The sovereignty of the state defines the domain of jurisdiction for the laws which govern the state and its associated society. The principles of explicitly defined sovereignty would become of increasing importance to Kelsen as the domain of his concerns extended more comprehensively into international law and its manifold implications following the conclusion of WWI. The very regulation of international law in the presence of asserted sovereign borders would present either a major barrier for Kelsen in the application of principles in international law, or represent areas where the mitigation of sovereignty could greatly facilitate the progress and effectiveness of international law in geopolitics.\n\nThe understanding of Kelsen's highly functional reading of the identity of law and state continues to represent one of the most challenging barriers to students and researchers of law approaching Kelsen's writings for the first time. After Kelsen completed his doctoral dissertation on the political philosophy of Dante, he turned to the study of Jellinek's dualist theory of law and state in Heidelberg in the years leading to 1910. Kelsen found that although he had a high respect for Jellinek as a leading scholar of his day, that Jellinek endorsement of a dualist theory of law and state was an impediment to the further development of a legal science which would be supportive of the development of responsible law throughout the twentieth century in addressing the requirements of the new century for the regulation of its society and of its culture. Kelsen's highly functional reading of the state was the most compatible manner he could locate for allowing for the development of positive law in a manner compatible with the demands of twentieth century geopolitics.\n\nAfter accepting the need for endorsing an explicit reading of the identity of law and state, Kelsen remained equally sensitive to recognizing the need for society to nonetheless express tolerance and even encourage the discussion and debate of philosophy, sociology, theology, metaphysics, sociology, politics, and religion. Culture and society were to be regulated by the state according to legislative and constitutional norms. Kelsen recognized the province of society in an extensive sense which would allow for the discussion of religion, natural law, metaphysics, the arts, etc., for the development of culture in its many and varied attributes. Very significantly, Kelsen would come to the strong inclination in his writings that the discussion of justice, as one example, was appropriate to the domain of society and culture, though its dissemination within the law was highly narrow and dubious. A twentieth century version of modern law, for Kelsen, would need to very carefully and appropriately delineate the responsible discussion of philosophical justice if the science of law was to be allowed to progress in an effective manner responding to the geopolitical and domestic needs of the new century.\n\nA common theme which was unavoidable for Kelsen within the many applications he encountered of his political philosophy was that of centralization and decentralization. For Kelsen, centralization was a philosophically key position to the understanding of the pure theory of law. The pure theory of law is in many ways dependent upon the logical regress of its hierarchy of superior and inferior norms reaching a centralized point of origination in the hierarchy which he termed the Basic norm, or, Grundnorm. In Kelsen's general assessments, centralization was to often be associated with more modern and highly developed forms of enhancements and improvements to sociological and cultural norms, while the presence of decentralization was a measure of more primitive and less sophisticated observations concerning sociological and cultural norms.\n\nThe dynamic theory of law is singled out in this subsection discussing the political philosophy of Hans Kelsen for the very same reasons which Kelsen applied in separating its explication from the discussion of the static theory of law within the pages of \"Pure Theory of Law\". The dynamic theory of law is the explicit and very acutely defined mechanism of state by which the process of legislation allows for new law to be created, and already established laws to be revised, as a result of political debate in the sociological and cultural domains of activity. Kelsen devotes one of his longest chapters in the revised version of \"Pure Theory of Law\" to discussing the central importance he associated with the dynamic theory of law. Its length of nearly one hundred pages is suggestive of its central significance to the book as a whole and may almost be studied as an independent book in its own right complementing the other themes which Kelsen covers in this book.\n\nThis section delineates the reception and criticism of Kelsen's writings and research throughout his lifetime. It also explicates the reaction of his scholarly reception after his death in 1973 concerning his intellectual legacy. Throughout his lifetime, Kelsen maintained a highly authoritative position representing his wide range of contributions to the theory and practice of law. Few scholars in the study of law were able to match his ability to engage and often polarize legal opinion during his own lifetime and extending well into his legacy reception after his death. One significant example of this involves his introduction and development of the term \"Grundnorm\" which can be briefly summarized to illustrate the diverse responses which his opinion was able to often stimulate in the legal community of his time. The short version of its reception is illustrative of many similar debates with which Kelsen was involved at many points in his career and may be summarized as follows.\nRegarding Kelsen's original use of the term Grundnorm, its closest antecedent appears in writings of his colleague Adolf Merkl at the University of Vienna. Merkl was developing a structural research approach for the understanding of law as a matter of the hierarchical relationship of norms, largely on the basis of their being either superior, the one to the other, or inferior with respect to each other. Kelsen adapted and assimilated much of Merkl's approach into his own presentation of the \"Pure Theory of Law\" in both its original version (1934) and its revised version (1960). For Kelsen, the importance of the Grundnorm was in large measure two-fold since it importantly indicated the logical regress of superior relationships between norms as they led to the norm which ultimately would have no other norm to which it was inferior. Its second feature was that it represented the importance which Kelsen associated with the concept of a fully centralized legal order in contrast to the existence of decentralized forms of government and representing legal orders.\n\nAnother form of the reception of the term originated from the fairly extended attempt to read Kelsen as a Neo-Kantian following his early engagement with Hermann Cohen's work in 1911, the year his \"Habilitation\" dissertation on public law was published. Cohen was a leading Neo-Kantian of the time and Kelsen was, in his own way, receptive to many of the ideas which Cohen had expressed in his published book review of Kelsen's writing. Kelsen had insisted that he had never used this material in the actual writing of his own book, though Cohen's ideas were attractive to him in their own right. This has resulted in one of the longest-running debates within the general Kelsen community as to whether Kelsen became a Neo-Kantian himself after the encounter with Cohen's work, or if he managed to keep his own non-Neo-Kantian position intact which he claimed was the prevailing circumstance when he first wrote his book in 1911.\n\nThe Neo-Kantians, when pressing the issue, would lead Kelsen into discussions concerning whether the existence of such a Grundnorm (Basic Norm) was strictly symbolic or whether it had a concrete foundation. This has led to the further division within this debate concerning the currency of the term Grundnorm as to whether it should be read, on the one hand, as part and parcel of Hans Vaihinger's \"as-if\" hypothetical construction. On the other hand, to those seeking a practical reading, the Grundnorm corresponded to something directly and concretely comparable to a sovereign nation's federal constitution, under which would be organized all of its regional and local laws, and no law would be recognized as being superior to it.\n\nIn different contexts, Kelsen would indicate his preferences in different ways, with some Neo-Kantians asserting that late in life Kelsen would largely abide by the symbolic reading of the term when used in the Neo-Kantian context, and as he has documented. The Neo-Kantian reading of Kelsen can further be subdivided into three subgroups, with each representing their own preferred reading of the meaning of the Grundnorm, which were identifiable as (a) the Marburg Neo-Kantians, (b) the Baden Neo-Kantians, and (c) his own Kelsenian reading of the Neo-Kantian school (during his \"analytico-linguistic\" phase circa 1911–1915) with which his writings on this subject are often associated.\n\nThis section covers Kelsen's years in Austria, Germany, Czechoslovakia and Switzerland. While still in Austria, Kelsen entered the debate on the versions of Public Law prevailing in his time by engaging the predominating opinions of Jellinek and Gerber in his 1911 Habilitation dissertation (see description above). Kelsen, after attending Jellinek's lectures in Heidelberg oriented his interpretation according to the need to extend Jellinek's research past the points which Jellinek had set as its limits. For Kelsen, the effective operation of a legal order required that it be separated from political influences in terms which exceeded substantially the terms which Jellinek had adopted as its preferred form. In response to his 1911 dissertation, Kelsen was challenged by the Neo-Kantians, originally led by Hermann Cohen, who maintained that there were substantial Neo-Kantian insights which were open to Kelsen, which Kelsen himself did not appear to develop to the full extent of their potential interpretation as summarized in the section above. Sara Lagi in her recent book on Kelsen and his 1920s writings on democracy has articulated the revised and guarded reception of Jellinek by Kelsen. Kelsen was the principal author of the passages for the incorporation of judicial review in the Constitutions of Austria and Czechoslovakia during the 1910s largely on the model of John Marshall and the American Constitutional experience.\n\nIn addition to this debate, Kelsen had initiated a separate discussion with Carl Schmitt on questions relating to the definition of sovereignty and its interpretation in international law. Kelsen became deeply committed to the principle of the adherence of the state to the rule of law above political controversy, while Schmitt adhered to the divergent view of the state deferring to political fiat. The debate would have the effect of polarizing opinion not only throughout the 1920s and 1930s leading up to WWII, but has also extended into the decades after Kelsen's death in 1973.\n\nA third example of the controversies with which Kelsen was involved during his European years surrounded the severe disenchantment which many felt concerning the political and legal outcomes of WWI and the Treaty of Versailles. Kelsen believed that the blamelessness associated with Germany's political leaders and military leaders indicated a gross historical inadequacy of international law which could no longer be ignored. Kelsen devoted much of his writings from the 1930s and leading into the 1940s towards reversing this historical inadequacy which was deeply debated until ultimately Kelsen succeeded in contributing to the international precedent of establishing war crime trials for political leaders and military leaders at the end of WWII at Nuremberg and Tokyo.\n\nThis section covers Kelsen's years during his American years. Kelsen's participation and his part in the establishment of war crimes tribunals following WWII has been discussed in the previous section. The end of WWII and the start of the United Nations became a significant concern for Kelsen after 1940. For Kelsen, in principle, the United Nations represented in potential a significant phase change from the previous League of Nations and its numerous inadequacies which he had documented in his previous writings. Kelsen would write his 700-page treatise on the United Nations, along with a subsequent two hundred page supplement, which became a standard text book on studying the United Nations for over a decade in the 1950s and 1960s.\n\nKelsen also became a significant contributor to the Cold War debate in publishing books on Bolshevism and Communism, which he reasoned were less successful forms of government when compared to Democracy. This, for Kelsen, was especially the case when dealing with the question of the compatibility of different forms of government in relation to the \"Pure Theory of Law\" (1934, first edition).\n\nThe completion of Kelsen's second edition of his magnum opus on \"Pure Theory of Law\" published in 1960 had at least as large an effect upon the international legal community as did the first edition published in 1934. Kelsen was a tireless defender of the application legal science in defending his position and was constantly confronting detractors who were unconvinced that the domain of legal science was sufficient to its own subject matter. This debate has continued well into the twenty-first century as well.\n\nTwo critics of Kelsen in the United States were the legal realist Karl Llewellyn and the jurist Harold Laski. Llewellyn, as a firm anti-positivist against Kelsen stated, \"I see Kelsen's work as utterly sterile, save in by-products that derive from his taking his shrewd eyes, for a moment, off what he thinks of as 'pure law.'\" In his democracy essay of 1955, Kelsen took up the defense of representative democracy made by Joseph Schumpeter in Schumpeter's book on democracy and capitalism. Although Schumpeter took a position unexpectedly favorable to socialism, Kelsen felt that a rehabilitation of the reading of Schumpeter's book more amicable to democracy could be defended and he quoted Schumpter's strong conviction that, to \"realize the relative validity of one's convictions and yet stand for them unflinchingly,\" as consistent with his own defense of democracy. Kelsen himself made mixed statements concerning the extensiveness of the greater or lesser strict association of democracy and capitalism.\nMany of the controversies and critical debates during his lifetime continued after Kelsen's death in 1973. Kelsen's ability to polarize opinion among established legal scholars continued to influence the reception of his writings well after his death. The formation of the European Union would recall many of his debates with Schmitt on the issue of the degree of centralization which would in principle be possible, and what the implications concerning state sovereignty would be once the unification was put into place. Kelsen's contrast with Hart as representing two distinguishable forms of legal positivism has continued to be influential in distinguishing between Anglo-American forms of legal positivism from Continental forms of legal positivism. The implications of these contrasting forms continues to be part of the continuing debates within legal studies and the application of legal research at both the domestic and the international level of investigation.\n\nIn her recent book on Hans Kelsen, Sandrine Baume identified Ronald Dworkin as a leading defender of the \"compatibility of judicial review with the very principles of democracy.\" Baume identified John Hart Ely alongside Dworkin as the foremost defenders of this principle in recent years, while the opposition to this principle of \"compatibility\" was identified as Bruce Ackerman and Jeremy Waldron. Dworkin has been a long-time advocate of the principle of the moral reading of the Constitution whose lines of support he sees as strongly associated with enhanced versions of judicial review in the federal government. In Sandrine Baume's words, the opposing view to compatibility is that of \"Jeremy Waldron and Bruce Ackerman, who look on judicial review as inconsistent with respecting democratic principles.\"\n\nFor the occasion of Hans Kelsen's 90th birthday, the Austrian federal government decided on 14 September 1971 to establish a foundation bearing the name \"Hans Kelsen-Institut\". The Institut became operational in 1972. Its task is to document the \"Pure Theory of Law\" and its dissemination in Austria and abroad, and to inform about and encourage the continuation and development of the pure theory. To this end it produces, through the publishing house Manz, a book series that currently runs to more than 30 volumes. The Institut administers the rights to Kelsen's works and has edited several works from his unpublished papers, including \"General Theory of Norms\" (1979, translated 1991) and \"Secular Religion\" (2012, written in English). The Institut's database is free online with login registration. The founding directors of the Institut, Kurt Ringhofer and Robert Walter, held their posts until their deaths respectively in 1993 and 2010. The current directors are Clemens Jabloner (since 1993) and Thomas Olechowski (since 2011).\n\nIn 2006, the Hans-Kelsen-Forschungsstelle (Hans Kelsen Research Center) was founded under the direction of Matthias Jestaedt at the Friedrich-Alexander University of Erlangen-Nuremberg. After Jestaedt's appointment at the Albert-Ludwigs-University of Freiburg in 2011, the center was transferred there. The Hans-Kelsen-Forschungsstelle publishes, in cooperation with the Hans Kelsen-Institut and through the publishing house Mohr Siebeck, a historical-critical edition of Kelsen's works which is planned to reach more than 30 volumes; as of July 2013, the first five volumes have been published.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24173253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24173253", "title": "Heinrich Racker", "text": "Heinrich Racker\n\nHeinrich Racker (1910, Poland – 28 January 1961, Buenos Aires) was a Polish Argentine psychoanalyst of Austrian-Jewish origin. Escaping Nazism, he fled to Buenos Aires in 1939. Already a doctor in musicology and philosophy, he became a psychoanalyst, first under the direction of Jeanne Lampi-de-Groot, and later working with Ángel Garma and Marie Langer in Argentina. His most important work is a study of the psychoanalytic technique known as transference and countertransference, which was published for the first time in 1968.\n\nHis brother, Efraim Racker, was a famous biochemist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15326042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15326042", "title": "Imakita Kosen", "text": "Imakita Kosen\n\nKosen did his Zen training under Daisetsu Shoen (1797–1855) at Sōkoku-ji and received inka from Gisan Zenkai at Sōgen-ji in Okayama. Kosen was instrumental in bringing Zen to lay practitioners and to the west. Kosen's Dharma heir Soyen Shaku participated in the World Parliament of Religions in Chicago, which introduced Soyen Shaku's student D.T. Suzuki to Paul Carus and western Theosophy. Kosen's dharma descendant Tetsuo Sōkatsu established Ningen Zen Kyodan, an independent lay-Rinzai school.\n\nAs one-time head abbot of Engakuji in Kamakura, Japan, he was known as a government loyalist and is remembered for his support of Emperor Meiji—in the 1870s serving as Doctrinal Instructor for the Ministry of Doctrine.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2494411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2494411", "title": "Inconsistent triad", "text": "Inconsistent triad\n\nAn inconsistent triad consists of three propositions of which at most two can be true. For example:\n\n\nIf one finds oneself believing all three propositions of an inconsistent triad, then (in order to be rational) one must give up or modify at least one of those beliefs. Maybe Alice doesn't love me, or maybe she wouldn't send flowers to me if she did, or maybe she actually has sent flowers.\n\nAny inconsistent triad } gives rise to a trilemma .\n\nThe problem of evil is often given in the form of an inconsistent triad. For example, J. L. Mackie gave the following three propositions:\n\n\nMackie argued that these propositions were inconsistent, and thus, that at least one of these propositions must be false. Either:\n\nMany responses have been made to the problem of evil, including the proposition that evil exists as a consequence of a greater good, such as free will; that evil is an illusion; and that evil is necessary for spiritual growth. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "56451372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56451372", "title": "João Cruz Costa", "text": "João Cruz Costa\n\nJoão Cruz Costa (São Paulo, SP, 1904 - São Paulo, SP, 1978), was a Brazilian philosopher, \"first student\" of the Philosophy Faculty at Universidade de São Paulo, later becoming full professor at the same institution.\n\nHis intellectual work addressed different knowledge areas, especially about the development of philosophy in Brazil, \"aiming to establish connections between thinking and the country's social, political and economic reality throughout its history. Essay writer, critic, sociologist, biographer, besides being philosopher, which showed the diversity of his knowledge. He would spread it by teaching and via articles written in simple language and published at the most important newspapers of his time: O Estado de S. Paulo, Folha de S.Paulo (formerly called \"Folha da Manhã)\", Jornal de São Paulo, Minerva de Buenos Aires and Jornadas do México. Member of the Paulista Writers Association, also of the Biology Society (at Instituto Histórico e Geográfico de São Paulo) and of the Ideas History Society of Mexico\". Cruz Costa was forced to early retire by the military dictatorship in 1965, later dying in 1978.\n\nBorn in 1904, São Paulo, Brazil; son of a Portuguese father and mother that descended from Italians, João da Cruz Costa wanted to become a doctor. His interest on medicine probably came from the fact that his father, José da Cruz Costa, died young on 1922, 49 years old, by the crisis derived from syphilis, which had first shown its setbacks since 1920. José was republican and had run away from Portugal after having beaten up a monarchist adversary, having thought to have killed him. José da Cruz Costa was a successful retailer, born in the village of Palheira at the outskirts of Coimbra, Portugal, and founded the furniture store called \"O Grande Oriente\" (The Great Orient) in São Paulo, Brazil.\n\nAfter his father's death, João Cruz Costa studied medicine for two years at \"Faculdade de Medicina da USP\" (USP Medicine Faculty), intending to become a psychiatrist. Without finishing the course, Cruz Costa decided to travel to France in 1923 to study psychology and later there decided to focus his studies in philosophy.[...] I began studying medicine, thus revealing a practical interest for the human being, if not for him, for his health. I had done some vague studies of philosophy with my longtime friend, prof. Henrique Geenen, to meet the demands of the preparatory meetings. To enter the Faculty of Medicine we were obliged to take a psychology and logic exam, which my friend and professor of the Faculty of Medicine, Professor Guilherme Bastos Milward, called illogical psychology. I then went to France in 1923 and entered the preparatory course of the Medical School of Paris. One day, in a group of Brazilians, I met Prof. Georges Dumas, who was a good friend of Brazil, who asked me what specialization I would do in medicine. My answer was: psychiatry. Old Dumas, who was a doctor and agrégé of Philosophy, then advised me to study philosophy and invited me to attend his amusing classes on Sundays at the Asyle de St'Anne. I enrolled as a listener in the courses at Sorbonne, attending classes of profs. Brunschvicg, Lalande, as well as those of Pierre Janet in the Collège de France (Costa, 1974. pp. 87-8).According to his own words in an interview for Trans / Form / Action Magazine in 1975, Cruz Costa considered that he was influenced by what he read:\"In 1920 I was still not thinking autonomously, I was under the influence of what I was reading. I think most of my generation was suffering from the same. I read all of Eça de Queiroz, all of Anatole France, a lot of Balzac, Camilo, Fialho, Machado de Assis. It was my trip to Europe that opened my eyes to other realities ... 1930, be what it may, was a turning point for Brazilian culture and I was, among many others of my generation, at this crossroad. Some of them went to the right, others to the left, but all this was confusing for one and another ... The critical spirit that Philosophy study provides or improves, was not then the most accurate among those young people. Thus the confusion, falacies, misunderstandings, desillusions. I don't believe that Philosophy as an academic discipline teaches much. However, as the Dominican Maydieu wrote, although the \"philosopher acquisition may seem poor, it nevertheless allows to coordinate many wealths.\" I thought it was worth worth paying attention to the richness of our reality. Hence my work since then.However, I consider my position to be an aging, outdated position. Today there is a more universal view of human problems. Fortunately, Mario de Andrade said, in a letter to Manuel Bandeira, that we would become more Brazilians as we become more universal. If speculative philosophy and practice lead us to this, they will succeed on what we had expected from them.\"Returning to Brazil, João Cruz Costa (later known only by his surname, Cruz Costa) became the first student of the then recently created Faculty of Philosophy of the University of São Paulo (USP), achieving the doctor's degree in 1942 and being the main responsible for the creation of the Department of Philosophy at USP. In 1951, he finally achieved the highest academic rank, becoming a professor at the same university.\n\nIn 1958, he faced the outrages of the then Governor of São Paulo, Jânio Quadros: in January of that same year, Professor Cruz Costa received a reprimand for having granted an interview to Diários Associados (Brazilian newspaper), in which he had stated that the governor words were frivolous when he made reference to the then Director of FFLC Eurípedes Simões de Paula. This episode had strong repercussion at the press, being front cover of Folha da Manhã on January 3, 1958. Cruz Costa was forced to defend himself and brought the case to the STF (Brazilian Supreme Court), which granted his request on September 3, 1958, canceling his punishment . In January 1959, Jânio Quadros accepted the decision and the Professor Cruz Costa ironically commented in Folha da Manhã: \"It was always the habit of the governor to be brief, as it can be asserted by his famous notes. This time, however, he had to extend long excuses to the decision of the notable Supreme Court, which unanimously compelled him to cancel the act that had led me to appeal to that high Court of Justice.\" On January 20, 1964, Professor Cruz Costa was obliged to testify at DOPS (Department of Order and Social Politics in Portuguese, an official governamental office to control and investigate social movements) about a manifesto supporting the registration of the Brazilian Communist Party, created in September 1961, and allegedly signed by several intellectuals, among them Cruz Costa, Caio Prado Jr., Florestan Fernandes, student leaders, lawyers, trade unionists, among others. Naturally, he declared that \"some of the signatories have a political or philosophical position different from communists, which is, by the way, what the declarant believes in. In any case, he believes that it would be more beneficial the Communist Party to be legally accepted than being on the underground, as happens in Italy, France, England and other truly democratic countries.\"\n\nIn 1965, Cruz Costa left his teaching activities, arbitrarily removed by the supporters of the 1964 military coup. He was denounced by his more conservative university colleagues and had to take refuge in France for six months in 1964, where he taught classes. The military regime established police-military investigations (IPM, acronym in Portuguese) accusing USP students, teachers and employees, which had begun at the second semester of that year, without sparing Professor Cruz Costa:At the Faculty of Philosophy, IPM was installed in a climate of great hostility by students and teachers. Mário Schenberg, Cruz Costa and Florestan Fernandes were questioned. Fernando Henrique Cardoso, also accused, had already accepted the invitation to teach abroad and left the country. During the investigation, Professor Florestan was arrested because of a letter of protest that he handed to the colonel responsible and which was only a defense of the dignity of being a teacher. The wave of protests provoked by this prison seemed to have contributed to stop the IPM questionings.On September 3, 1965, the Permanent Council of Justice of the 2nd Military Region decided by Cruz Costa pre-trial detention, as shown in his DOPS file, filed in the Public Archive of the State of São Paulo. In this file, he is falsely accused as \"communist greatly related to Russia\".\n\nHis most important contribution was Contribution to the History of Ideas in Brazil, published in 1956 and later edited and translated into several languages. In his book, Cruz Costa defended a critic and more Brazilian-oriented thinking, not necessarily rejecting foreign authors (European and American) or uncritically accepting them. His aim was for creating something new, original and Brazilian.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33324499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33324499", "title": "Juliana González Valenzuela", "text": "Juliana González Valenzuela\n\nJuliana González Valenzuela (Mexico, September 19, 1936) is a Mexican philosopher.\n\nJuliana Gonzalez is a Mexican philosopher who has worked primarily in the areas of Greek Philosophy, Ontology, Ethics and Bioethics. She was born in Mexico City in 1936. She studied in the Faculty of Philosophy and Literature of the National Autonomous University (UNAM) where she received an ample humanistic education in philosophy, psychology, theater and history. The time she attended university was marked by an intellectual boom due mainly to the presence of the Spanish exiles that arrived in Mexico from 1939 until the end of the Spanish Civil War. They were determinant in her studies, especially the Catalan philosopher Eduardo Nicol. She became his pupil as well as a member of his Seminar on Metaphysics for over 20 years and at the same time she worked in the field of Ethics on her own philosophical inquiries.\n\nShe began her career as a professor in the Faculty of Philosophy and Literature of UNAM in 1968. She taught Greek Philosophy, Metaphysics and Ethics. She has also been a Professor in the Postgraduate Research Seminars on Metaphysics, Ethics and Bioethics. As part of her formative work she has directed 45 theses (23 in BA, 22 postgraduate). Some of her students are now researchers or professors in different Universities and education centers.\nShe was named Professor Emeritus of the National University in 2000 and also received the distinction of Researcher Emeritus of the National System of Researchers of Mexico. She was awarded the National Award of Arts and Sciences in Philosophy in 2004, the National University Award in Research in Humanities) and the Doctorate Honoris Causa of UNAM.\n\nParallel to her academic work, Juliana Gonzalez has held several offices at UNAM. She was the director of the Faculty of Philosophy and Literature from 1990 to 1998 and a member of the Governing Board from 1998 to 2006. She is currently the director of the Research Seminar of Ethics and Bioethics of the same University.\n\nJuliana González has published 21 books, 7 as an author and 14 as an editor. She has also written 74 chapters in books and 60 articles in magazines.\n\nAs the pupil of Eduardo Nicol, Juliana Gonzalez has dedicated numerous writings to the study of the metaphysical and humanistic works of this author. She wrote a book titled The Dialectic Metaphysics of Eduardo Nicol (1981) and edited three more: Tribute to Eduardo Nicol (1990), Eduardo Nicol. Philosophy as Symbolic Reason (1998) and Eduardo Nicol (1998) as well as writing 16 book chapters and several articles on this subject. In the work of Juliana Gonzalez, Nicol’s philosophy has been a constant reference.\n\nHer philosophical works has been centered mainly in the search for a new foundation of Ethics that can give an answer to the new knowledge and needs of our time. This research has led Juliana Gonzalez into some of the philosophical and scientific lines of thinking that have placed our conceptions of reality, life and human nature in crisis. Gonzalez has adopted the view that any historical advancement requires a return to the origins of Philosophy. From her perspective, we need a permanent dialogue with the Greek philosophers, unavoidable sources to use in order to renovate humanism and Ethics. This is especially true of Heraclitus, Socrates and Plato, authors Juliana Gonzalez has worked with in several of her books, mainly Ethics and Freedom (1989) and The Ethos, Destiny of Man (1996) and The Power of Eros: Foundations and Values in Ethics and Bioethics (2000).\n\nFrom her earliest work, Juliana Gonzalez has delved in the study of the ontological issues of the being of man, freedom, time and human communication that were raised by the existentialist philosophers, especially Heidegger and Sartre, as well as the literature of the time. These studies form the basis of her Master’s dissertation on Philosophy and several essays included in some of her books, markedly Ethics and Freedom. And even though she maintains a critical perspective faced with these authors, she is certain that this is the starting point for any and all future Ethics and Ontology.\n\nJuliana Gonzalez has worked on finding the philosophical foundation of the ethical condition of man and freedom in human nature itself, from an immanent conception of man and critiquing the dualist conceptions that –from her philosophical view- are unsustainable. Also, she believes that free will is necessary for Ethics and it is in this line that she worked on a study from the Greek Philosophers to thinkers like Spinoza and writers such as Dostoyevsky and Kafka, whom she considers crucial to Ethics. This work became the book Ethics and Freedom. Her research on the foundations of ethics and values were collected in the book The Ethos, Destiny of Man and The Power of Eros.\n\nThe Ethos, Destiny of Man is a book that explores and proposes a humanistic foundation of Ethics while acknowledging an Ontology of man capable of explaining the ethical condition as well the axiological one. One of the virtues of this book is that it gets over the clash between the realms of being and value.\n\nIn the Power of Eros, the author proposes an integral view of the moral facts. In this book, Juliana Gonzalez works on the subject of Eros as a vital origin of Ethics and as a way to understand human nature with categories that explain the ambiguity, the temporal condition and the constitutive ethical framework of human beings. In the second part of the book she deals with issues of bioethics, the present and future of the human condition. The main points she holds here are that Bioethics is a philosophical and lay issue, its ontological foundation, centered on human nature, the universal character of humanistic criteria, the relativity of moral decisions as well as the need for a multidisciplinary comprehension of bioethical issues.\n\nIn another cultural context, far from the platonic one, Juliana Gonzalez finds the mythical symbol of Eros in the work of Freud. And it is here, in the study of the Cultural Revolution that Freudian psychoanalysis brought to our attention, that the author finds another relevant subject to understand the crisis of ethical thinking. In her book Freud and the Crisis of Ethics (1986), she proposes a philosophical understanding of Freud’s work, highlighting on the one hand the aspects that contribute to questioning the meaning of culture and morality and on the other, the meaningful moment when Freud identifies Eros with the life impulses that are opposed to the death impulses of Thanatos. The erotic impulses are then, for the author, interpreted as the foundation for the ethical condition of man.\n\nFor Juliana Gonzalez, it is impossible to ignore Nietzsche in the analysis of ethical issues, since his work has been determinant to both the crisis of Ethics and the new horizons that it opens for us, as she discusses in her book The Hero in the Soul: Three Essays on Nietszche (1994).\n\nOther issues Juliana Gonzalez has worked on are the problems of medical ethics in particular and bioethics in general. She has worked on these problems from a philosophical perspective that converges with the advances in life sciences. This view includes matters of praxis, theory and knowledge, all derived from the advancement of genomics and neurosciences especially. She has shown that some of these advancements can create a crisis for our conception of humankind that is focused on freedom and morality. In this sense, what is most important for philosophy is not the principles and norms of bioethics that guide the scientific and technological work, but the impact the new knowledge has on our traditional conceptions of life and the human reality as well as other life forms, and our individual and social life.\n\nFrom her work on the ethical issues stemming from genetics, Juliana Gonzalez wrote Human Genome and Human Dignity) (2005). This book expresses her philosophical awe of the facts revealed by molecular genetics (in particular the unity of life through DNA) and she presents a critical analysis of the ontological issues of dignity and human freedom in face of determinism and genetic manipulation, both of individuals and communities.\n\nJuliana Gonzalez founded the Research Seminar on Ethics and Bioethics in 1998, which was transformed into the Seminar on Ethics and Bioethics in 02 and finally into the current Research Seminar on Ethics and Bioethics in 2009. This Seminar works on multidisciplinary research and has produced several books with the participation of biologists, geneticists, historians, neuroscientists, psychologists, philosophers, medical doctors, lawyers, ecologists, economists, etc.… The Seminar has published the following books: Bioethical Dilemmas, Bioethical Perspectives, Philosophy and Life Sciences and is working on another one, to be published soon: Rethinking Life and Value.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14096604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14096604", "title": "Michael Uebel", "text": "Michael Uebel\n\nMichael Uebel (born 1964), a pioneer in the application of psychological insights to the historical intersections of social, personal, and imaginative phenomena, is a psychotherapist and researcher in Austin, Texas. He has taught literature and critical theory at the University of Virginia, at Georgetown University, where he taught in the Communication, Culture, and Technology Program and the English Department, and at the University of Kentucky, where he held a faculty position in the Department of English, and was affiliated with the Committee on Social Theory and Women’s Studies. As of 2012, Uebel has been appointed Lecturer in the School of Social Work at the University of Texas at Austin. He is the author and/or editor of three major studies and the author of over 40 journal essays and encyclopedia articles. Uebel lectures nationally and internationally on issues concerning social history, mental health, and the challenges of humanism. In 2009, he co-founded the Interdependence Project-Austin, a branch of the New York city-based nonprofit organization (IDP) dedicated to fostering the intersection of the arts, activism, and contemplative traditions. Uebel serves as Director of Contemplative Studies.\n\nFrom the University of Wisconsin–Madison, Uebel received his B.A., with Distinction, in the fields of comparative literature and English literature. He completed both his M.A. and PhD in literature at the University of Virginia, continuing his post-doctoral studies by earning the Master of Science in Social Work Degree from the University of Texas at Austin. He also studied psychotherapy at both the Houston-Galveston Psychoanalytic Institute and is currently an instructor and student at the Austin Center for Relational Psychoanalysis and Psychotherapy.\n\nUebel’s research is best described as humanistic. Examining issues such as the formation of utopian thought, the ideology of gender relations, and the potentials of human existence, Uebel has urged a reconnaissance of disciplines as seemingly disparate as psychoanalysis, gerontology, philosophy, and social science. Uebel is forging an approach to literary, philosophical, and social phenomena that eludes the narcissistic allegorization of history that mires much contemporary cultural studies work. Increasingly, Uebel's writing focuses on the currents of cultural analysis in the humanities.\n\nAs a psychotherapist, Uebel’s practice and research focus on issues related to the social contexts of psychopathology and treatment modalities that address the person, the social body, and the relational world, including mindfulness modalities, gestalt therapy, and Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT).\n\nSignificant influences on Uebel include the humanistic psychologists Rollo May, Abraham Maslow, Fritz Perls, Thomas Szasz, and Robert Jay Lifton, the politically engaged psychoanalysts Wilhelm Reich, Erich Fromm, and Herbert Marcuse, and the less easily pigeon-holed thinkers Walter Benjamin, Félix Guattari, and Paul Goodman.\n\nUebel’s major works to date include a study of the legend of Prester John and utopian thought formation in the early Middle Ages (\"Ecstatic Transformation: On the Uses of Alterity in the Middle Ages\", 2005), a volume of essays on the cultural intersections of race and masculinity (with Harry Stecopoulos, \"Race and the Subject of Masculinities\", 1997), and a volume of essays on the significance of labor in the High Middle Ages (with Kellie Robertson, \"The Middle Ages at Work\", 2004). He has also edited a volume of essays on medieval culture for \"New Literary History\" (1996).\n\nUebel is writing a book on the formation of social consciousness and shame in post-war U. S. culture entitled \"Masochism in America\". He is also working on a book-length study of the famous neuropath Daniel Paul Schreber, and several essays including therapeutic case studies and papers on therapeutic technique.\n\n"}
{"id": "44307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44307", "title": "Michel de Montaigne", "text": "Michel de Montaigne\n\nMichel Eyquem de Montaigne, Lord of Montaigne (; ; 28 February 1533 – 13 September 1592) was one of the most significant philosophers of the French Renaissance, known for popularizing the essay as a literary genre. His work is noted for its merging of casual anecdotes and autobiography with serious intellectual insight; his massive volume \"Essais\" contains some of the most influential essays ever written.\n\nMontaigne had a direct influence on Western writers, including Francis Bacon, René Descartes, Blaise Pascal, Jean-Jacques Rousseau, Albert Hirschman, William Hazlitt, Ralph Waldo Emerson, Friedrich Nietzsche, Stefan Zweig, Eric Hoffer, Isaac Asimov, and possibly on the later works of William Shakespeare.\n\nIn his own lifetime, Montaigne was admired more as a statesman than as an author. The tendency in his essays to digress into anecdotes and personal ruminations was seen as detrimental to proper style rather than as an innovation, and his declaration that, \"I am myself the matter of my book\", was viewed by his contemporaries as self-indulgent. In time, however, Montaigne would come to be recognized as embodying, perhaps better than any other author of his time, the spirit of freely entertaining doubt which began to emerge at that time. He is most famously known for his skeptical remark, \"\"Que sçay-je\"?\" (\"What do I know?\", in Middle French; now rendered as \"Que sais-je?\" in modern French).\n\nMontaigne was born in the Aquitaine region of France, on the family estate Château de Montaigne, in a town now called Saint-Michel-de-Montaigne, close to Bordeaux. The family was very wealthy; his great-grandfather, Ramon Felipe Eyquem, had made a fortune as a herring merchant and had bought the estate in 1477, thus becoming the Lord of Montaigne. His father, Pierre Eyquem, Seigneur of Montaigne, was a French Catholic soldier in Italy for a time and had also been the mayor of Bordeaux.\n\nAlthough there were several families bearing the patronym \"Eyquem\" in Guyenne, his father's family is thought to have had some degree of Marrano (Spanish and Portuguese Jewish) origins, while his mother, Antoinette López de Villanueva, was a convert to Protestantism. His maternal grandfather, Pedro Lopez, from Zaragoza, was from a wealthy Marrano (Sephardic Jewish) family who had converted to Catholicism. His maternal grandmother, Honorette Dupuy, was from a Catholic family in Gascony, France.\n\nHis mother lived a great part of Montaigne's life near him, and even survived him, but is mentioned only twice in his essays. Montaigne's relationship with his father, however, is frequently reflected upon and discussed in his essays.\n\nMontaigne's education began in early childhood and followed a pedagogical plan that his father had developed, refined by the advice of the latter's humanist friends. Soon after his birth, Montaigne was brought to a small cottage, where he lived the first three years of life in the sole company of a peasant family, in order to, according to the elder Montaigne, \"draw the boy close to the people, and to the life conditions of the people, who need our help\". After these first spartan years, Montaigne was brought back to the château. The objective was for Latin to become his first language.\n\nThe intellectual education of Montaigne was assigned to a German tutor (a doctor named Horstanus, who could not speak French). His father hired only servants who could speak Latin, and they were also given strict orders always to speak to the boy in Latin. The same rule applied to his mother, father, and servants, who were obliged to use only Latin words he himself employed, and thus acquired a knowledge of the very language his tutor taught him. Montaigne's Latin education was accompanied by constant intellectual and spiritual stimulation. He was familiarized with Greek by a pedagogical method that employed games, conversation, and exercises of solitary meditation, rather than the more traditional books.\n\nThe atmosphere of the boy's upbringing, although designed by highly refined rules taken under advisement by his father, created in the boy's life the spirit of \"liberty and delight\" to \"make me relish... duty by an unforced will, and of my own voluntary motion...without any severity or constraint\"; yet he would have everything to take advantage of his freedom. And so a musician woke him every morning, playing one instrument or another, and an \"épinettier\" (with a zither) was the constant companion to Montaigne and his tutor, playing a tune to alleviate boredom and tiredness.\n\nAround the year 1539, Montaigne was sent to study at a prestigious boarding school in Bordeaux, the Collège de Guyenne, then under the direction of the greatest Latin scholar of the era, George Buchanan, where he mastered the whole curriculum by his thirteenth year. He then began his study of law at the University of Toulouse in 1546 and entered a career in the local legal system. He was a counselor of the Court des Aides of Périgueux and, in 1557, he was appointed counselor of the Parlement in Bordeaux (a high court). From 1561 to 1563 he was courtier at the court of Charles IX; he was present with the king at the siege of Rouen (1562). He was awarded the highest honour of the French nobility, the collar of the Order of St. Michael, something to which he aspired from his youth. While serving at the Bordeaux Parlement, he became very close friends with the humanist poet Étienne de la Boétie, whose death in 1563 deeply affected Montaigne. It has been suggested by Donald M. Frame, in his introduction to \"The Complete Essays of Montaigne\" that because of Montaigne's \"imperious need to communicate\" after losing Étienne, he began the \"Essais\" as his \"means of communication\" and that \"the reader takes the place of the dead friend\".\n\nMontaigne married Françoise de la Cassaigne in 1565, probably in an arranged marriage. She was the well-got daughter and niece of merchants of Toulouse and Bordeaux. They had six daughters, but only the second-born, Léonor, survived infancy. Little is known about their marriage, a few words only escaping from Montaigne himself on the subject – he wrote of his daughter Léonor, \"All my children die at nurse; but Léonore, our only daughter, who has escaped this misfortune, has reached the age of six and more without having been punished, the indulgence of her mother aiding, except in words, and those very gentle ones.\" His daughter married François de la Tour and later Charles de Gamaches and had a daughter by each.\n\nFollowing the petition of his father, Montaigne started to work on the first translation of the Catalan monk Raymond Sebond's \"Theologia naturalis\", which he published a year after his father's death in 1568 (In 1595, Sebond's Prologue was put on the Index Librorum Prohibitorum for its declaration that the Bible is not the only source of revealed truth). After this, he inherited the family's estate, the Château de Montaigne, to which he moved back in 1570, thus becoming the Lord of Montaigne. Another literary accomplishment was Montaigne's posthumous edition of his friend Boétie's works.\n\nIn 1571, he retired from public life to the Tower of the Château, his so-called \"citadel\", in the Dordogne, where he almost totally isolated himself from every social and family affair. Locked up in his library, which contained a collection of some 1,500 works, he began work on his \"Essais\" (\"Essays\"), first published in 1580. On the day of his 38th birthday, as he entered this almost ten-year period of self-imposed reclusion, he had the following inscription crown the bookshelves of his working chamber:\n\nIn the year of Christ 1571, at the age of thirty-eight, on the last day of February, his birthday, Michael de Montaigne, long weary of the servitude of the court and of public employments, while still entire, retired to the bosom of the learned virgins, where in calm and freedom from all cares he will spend what little remains of his life, now more than half run out. If the fates permit, he will complete this abode, this sweet ancestral retreat; and he has consecrated it to his freedom, tranquility, and leisure.\n\nDuring this time of the Wars of Religion in France, Montaigne, a Roman Catholic, acted as a moderating force, respected both by the Catholic King Henry III and the Protestant Henry of Navarre. Montaigne believed that a knowledge of devastating effects of vice is calculated to excite an aversion to vicious habits.\n\nIn 1578, Montaigne, whose health had always been excellent, started suffering from painful kidney stones, a sickness he had inherited from his father's family. Throughout this illness, he would have nothing to do with doctors or drugs. From 1580 to 1581, Montaigne traveled in France, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, and Italy, partly in search of a cure, establishing himself at Bagni di Lucca where he took the waters. His journey was also a pilgrimage to the Holy House of Loreto, to which he presented a silver relief depicting himself and his wife and daughter kneeling before the Madonna, considering himself fortunate that it should be hung on a wall within the shrine. He kept a fascinating journal recording regional differences and customs and a variety of personal episodes, including the dimensions of the stones he succeeded in ejecting from his bladder. This was published much later, in 1774, after its discovery in a trunk which is displayed in his tower.\n\nDuring Montaigne's visit to the Vatican, as he described in his travel journal, the \"Essais\" were examined by Sisto Fabri who served as Master of the Sacred Palace under Pope Gregory XIII. After Fabri examined Montaigne's \"Essais\" the text was returned to its author on 20 March 1581. Montaigne had apologized for references to the pagan notion of \"fortuna\" as well as for writing favorably of Julian the Apostate and of heretical poets, and was released to follow his own conscience in making emendations to the text.\n\nWhile in the city of Lucca in 1581, he learned that, like his father before him, he had been elected mayor of Bordeaux; he returned and served as mayor. He was re-elected in 1583 and served until 1585, again moderating between Catholics and Protestants. The plague broke out in Bordeaux toward the end of his second term in office, in 1585. In 1586, the plague and the Wars of Religion prompted him to leave his château for two years.\n\nMontaigne continued to extend, revise, and oversee the publication of \"Essais\". In 1588 he wrote its third book and also met the writer Marie de Gournay, who admired his work and later edited and published it. Montaigne called her his adopted daughter. King Henry III was assassinated in 1589, and Montaigne then helped to keep Bordeaux loyal to Henry of Navarre, who would go on to become King Henry IV.\n\nMontaigne died of quinsy at the age of 59, in 1592 at the Château de Montaigne. The disease in his case \"brought about paralysis of the tongue\", and he had once said \"the most fruitful and natural play of the mind is conversation. I find it sweeter than any other action in life; and if I were forced to choose, I think I would rather lose my sight than my hearing and voice.\" Remaining in possession of all his other faculties, he requested mass, and died during the celebration of that mass.\n\nHe was buried nearby. Later his remains were moved to the church of Saint Antoine at Bordeaux. The church no longer exists: it became the Convent des Feuillants, which has also disappeared. The Bordeaux Tourist Office says that Montaigne is buried at the Musée Aquitaine, Faculté des Lettres, Université Bordeaux 3 Michel de Montaigne, Pessac. His heart is preserved in the parish church of Saint-Michel-de-Montaigne.\n\nThe humanities branch of the University of Bordeaux is named after him: .\n\nHis humanism finds expression in his \"Essais\", a collection of a large number of short subjective treatments of various topics published in 1580, inspired by his studies in the classics, especially by the works of Plutarch and Lucretius. Montaigne's stated goal is to describe humans, and especially himself, with utter frankness.\nMontaigne's writings are studied as literature and philosophy around the world.\nInspired by his consideration of the lives and ideals of the leading figures of his age, he finds the great variety and volatility of human nature to be its most basic features. He describes his own poor memory, his ability to solve problems and mediate conflicts without truly getting emotionally involved, his disdain for the human pursuit of lasting fame, and his attempts to detach himself from worldly things to prepare for his timely death. He writes about his disgust with the religious conflicts of his time. He believed that humans are not able to attain true certainty. The longest of his essays, \"Apology for Raymond Sebond\", marking his adoption of Pyrrhonism contains his famous motto, \"What do I know?\"\n\nMontaigne considered marriage necessary for the raising of children, but disliked strong feelings of passionate love because he saw them as detrimental to freedom. In education, he favored concrete examples and experience over the teaching of abstract knowledge that has to be accepted uncritically. His essay \"On the Education of Children\" is dedicated to Diana of Foix.\n\nThe \"Essais\" exercised important influence on both French and English literature, in thought and style. Francis Bacon's \"Essays\", published over a decade later, in 1596, are usually assumed to be directly influenced by Montaigne's collection, and Montaigne is cited by Bacon alongside other classical sources in later essays.\n\nThough not a scientist, Montaigne made observations on topics in psychology. In his essays, he developed and explained his observations of these topics. His thoughts and ideas covered topics such as thought, motivation, fear, happiness, child education, experience, and human action. Montaigne’s ideas have influenced psychology and are a part of psychology’s rich history.\n\nChild education was among the psychological topics that he wrote about. His essays \"On the Education of Children\", \"On Pedantry\", and \"On Experience\" explain the views he had on child education. Some of his views on child education are still relevant today.\n\nMontaigne’s views on the education of children were opposed to the common educational practices of his day.He found fault with both what was taught and how it was taught. Much of the education during Montaigne’s time was focused on the reading of the classics and learning through books.Montaigne disagreed with learning strictly through books. He believed it was necessary to educate children in a variety of ways. He also disagreed with the way information was being presented to students. It was being presented in a way that encouraged students to take the information that was taught to them as absolute truth. Students were denied the chance to question the information. Therefore, students could not truly learn. Montaigne believed that, to learn truly, a student had to take the information and make it their own.\n\nAt the foundation Montaigne believed that the selection of a good tutor was important for the student to become well educated. Education by a tutor was to be done at the pace of the student.He believed that a tutor should be in dialogue with the student, letting the student speak first. The tutor should also allow for discussions and debates to be had. Through this dialogue, it was meant to create an environment in which students would teach themselves. They would be able to realize their mistakes and make corrections to them as necessary.\n\nIndividualized learning was also integral to his theory of child education. He argued that the student combines information he already knows with what is learned and forms a unique perspective on the newly learned information. Montaigne also thought that tutors should encourage a student’s natural curiosity and allow them to question things.He postulated that successful students were those who were encouraged to question new information and study it for themselves, rather than simply accepting what they had heard from the authorities on any given topic. Montaigne believed that a child’s curiosity could serve as an important teaching tool when the child is allowed to explore the things that they are curious about.\n\nExperience was also a key element to learning for Montaigne. Tutors needed to teach students through experience rather than through the mere memorization of knowledge often practised in book learning.He argued that students would become passive adults; blindly obeying and lacking the ability to think on their own. Nothing of importance would be retained and no abilities would be learned. He believed that learning through experience was superior to learning through the use of books. For this reason he encouraged tutors to educate their students through practice, travel, and human interaction. In doing so, he argued that students would become active learners, who could claim knowledge for themselves.\n\nMontaigne’s views on child education continue to have an influence in the present. Variations of Montaigne’s ideas on education are incorporated into modern learning in some ways. He argued against the popular way of teaching in his day, encouraging individualized learning. He believed in the importance of experience over book learning and memorization. Ultimately, Montaigne postulated that the point of education was to teach a student how to have a successful life by practising an active and socially interactive lifestyle.\n\nThinkers exploring similar ideas to Montaigne include Erasmus, Thomas More, and Guillaume Budé, who all worked about fifty years before Montaigne. Many of Montaigne's Latin quotations are from Erasmus' \"Adagia\", and most critically, all of his quotations from Socrates. Plutarch remains perhaps Montaigne's strongest influence, in terms of substance and style. Montaigne's quotations from Plutarch in the \"Essays\" number well over 500.\n\nEver since Edward Capell first made the suggestion in 1780, scholars have suggested Montaigne to be an influence on Shakespeare. The latter would have had access to John Florio's translation of Montaigne's \"Essais\", published in English in 1603, and a scene in \"The Tempest\" \"follows the wording of Florio [translating \"Of Cannibals\"] so closely that his indebtedness is unmistakable\".\nHowever, most parallels between the two can be explained as : as with Cervantes, Shakespeare's similarities with writers in other nations could be due simply to their simultaneous study of Latin moral and philosophical writers such as Seneca the Younger, Horace, Ovid and Virgil.\n\nMuch of Blaise Pascal's skepticism in his \"Pensées\" has been traditionally attributed to his reading Montaigne.\n\nThe English essayist William Hazlitt expressed boundless admiration for Montaigne, exclaiming that \"he was the first who had the courage to say as an author what he felt as a man. ... He was neither a pedant nor a bigot. ... In treating of men and manners, he spoke of them as he found them, not according to preconceived notions and abstract dogmas\". Beginning most overtly with the essays in the \"familiar\" style in his own \"Table-Talk\", Hazlitt tried to follow Montaigne's example.\n\nRalph Waldo Emerson chose \"Montaigne; or, the Skeptic\" as a subject of one of his series of lectures entitled \"Representative Men\", alongside other subjects such as Shakespeare and Plato. In \"The Skeptic\" Emerson writes of his experience reading Montaigne, \"It seemed to me as if I had myself written the book, in some former life, so sincerely it spoke to my thought and experience.\" Friedrich Nietzsche judged of Montaigne: \"That such a man wrote has truly augmented the joy of living on this Earth\". Sainte-Beuve advises us that \"to restore lucidity and proportion to our judgments, let us read every evening a page of Montaigne.\"\n\nThe American philosopher Eric Hoffer employed Montaigne both stylistically and in thought. In Hoffer's memoir, \"Truth Imagined\", he said of Montaigne, \"He was writing about me. He knew my innermost thoughts.\" The British novelist John Cowper Powys expressed his admiration for Montaigne's philosophy in his books \"Suspended Judgements\" (1916) and \"The Pleasures of Literature\" (1938). Judith N. Shklar introduces her book \"Ordinary Vices\" (1984), \"It is only if we step outside the divinely ruled moral universe that we can really put our minds to the common ills we inflict upon one another each day. That is what Montaigne did and that is why he is the hero of this book. In spirit he is on every one of its pages...\"\n\n20th-century literary critic Erich Auerbach called Montaigne the first modern man. \"Among all his contemporaries\", writes Auerbach (\"Mimesis\", Chapter 12), \"he had the clearest conception of the problem of man's self-orientation; that is, the task of making oneself at home in existence without fixed points of support\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1114435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1114435", "title": "Monad (Gnosticism)", "text": "Monad (Gnosticism)\n\nThe Monad in early Christian gnostic writings is an adaptation of concepts of the Monad in Greek philosophy to Christian gnostic belief systems.\n\nThe term \"monad\" comes from the Greek feminine noun \"monas\" (nominative singular, μονάς), \"one unit,\" where the ending \"-s\" in the nominative form resolves to the ending \"-d\" in declension.\n\nIn some gnostic systems the Supreme Being is known as the Monad, the One, the Absolute, Aiōn Teleos (the Perfect Aeon, ), Bythos (Depth or Profundity, ), Proarchē (Before the Beginning, προαρχή), Hē Archē (The Beginning, ), the Ineffable Parent, and/or the primal Father. \n\nProminent Christian gnostics like Valentinus taught that the Monad is the high source of the Pleroma, the region of light constituting \"the fullness of the Godhead.\" Through a process of emanation, various divine entities and realms emerge from the One. Arranged hierarchically, they become progressively degraded due to their remoteness from the Father. The various emanations of the One, totaling thirty in number (or 365, according to Basilides), are called Aeons. Among them exist Christ (who resides close to the Father) and the lowest emanation, Sophia (wisdom), whose fall results in the creation of the material world.\n\nAccording to Theodoret's book on heresies (\"Haereticarum Fabularum Compendium\" i.18), the Arab Christian Monoimus (c. 150-210) used the term Monad to mean the highest god that created lesser gods, or elements (similar to Aeons). In some versions of Christian gnosticism, especially those deriving from Valentinius, a lesser deity known as the Demiurge had a role in the creation of the material world separate from the Monad. In these forms of gnosticism, the God of the Old Testament, Yahweh, is often considered to have been the Demiurge, not the Monad, or sometimes different passages are interpreted as referring to each.\n\nAccording to Hippolytus, this view was inspired by the Pythagoreans, for whom the first existing thing was the Monad, which begat the dyad, which begat the numbers, which begat the point, begetting lines, and so on. Pythagorean and Platonic philosophers like Plotinus and Porphyry condemned the \"gnosis\" that would later characterize Gnostic systems for their treatment of the Monad or One (see Neoplatonism and Gnosticism).\n\nFor a long time, legend persisted that a young man by the name of Epiphanes, who died at the age of 17, was the leader of Monadic Gnosticism. However, scholars think the legend may have come from misunderstanding of the Greek word \"epiphanēs\" which may have been mistaken as a personal name if in text, when in fact the Greek means \"distinguished\", as in a \"distinguished teacher.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "42765310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42765310", "title": "Neuroethics Research Unit", "text": "Neuroethics Research Unit\n\nThe Neuroethics Research Unit was created in 2006, at the (IRCM), which is affiliated to the Université de Montréal. The Unit is one of the pioneer units in Canada in this area of research. Neuroethics is a new area of research where bioethics and neuroscience intersect. The focus is on ethical considerations in neuroscience research and the many ethical issues that arise from the transfer of neuroscience to health care.\n\nThe Neuroethics research unit pursues research within the fields of public and intercultural, clinical, research, reflexive, or theoretical neuroethics to address a large spectrum of challenges in neurological and psychiatric care such as providing quality patient information, diminishing stigma, and promoting respectful healthcare services. The Unit’s research themes cover subjects as diverse as MRI, end-of-life decision making, cognitive enhancement, ethical policy, etc.\n\nResearch projects of the Neuroethics Research Unit are funded by the Fonds de recherche du Québec – Santé, the Canadian Institutes of Health Research, the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada and the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council.\n\nIn June 2007, at the annual meeting of the Canadian Bioethics Society (CBS) held in Toronto, over 70 attendees met to discuss the need to learn more about Canadian and international advances in neuroethics including research, funding, and events. A new interest group was launched, The Canadian Neuroethics Interest Group (CNIG). One of the group’s strongest recommendations was to create a newsletter, featuring forthcoming events and literature updates. BRAINSTORM was born. Published by the Neuroethics Research Unit team at the Institut de recherches cliniques de Montréal (IRCM), the newsletter provides state-of-the art updates on events, funding, education, literature, resources, and news in neuroethics.\n\nThe Unit also created the Montreal Neuroethics Network. Its main goal is to organize neuroethics talks, seminars, workshops and symposia in Montreal to develop neuroethics in Montreal in both Academia and in the community.\n\n"}
{"id": "39827738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39827738", "title": "Neuroheuristics", "text": "Neuroheuristics\n\nNeuroheuristics (or Neuristics) studies the dynamic relations between the complex knowledge acquired by neuroscience by means of an approach not reducible in an expertise since it is continuously renewed at every stage of progress towards scientific discovery.\n\nThe word comes from the Greek νεύρον (neuron, which refers to the nerve cell) and εύρισκω (\"euriskein\" heuristic, which refers to a problem-solving procedure that is often characterized by its informal, intuitive and speculative features).\n\nNeuroheuristics defines a scientific paradigm aimed to develop strategies that can be enabled to understand brain and mind following subsequent problems emerging from transdisciplinary studies including philosophy, psychology, neuroscience, pharmacology, physics, artificial intelligence, engineering, computer science, economics and mathematics.\n\nThe neuroheuristic paradigm was presented for the first time at the conference \"Entrer dans le XXIe siècle : de l'apoptose à la métamorphose\", held in 1994 at the Centro Stefano Franscini Monte Verità, under the auspice of the XV Videart Festival Locarno.\n\nThe research framework introduced by the neuroheuristic paradigm appears as an essential step for the investigation of the information processing effected by the brain because it is the outcome of nature and nurture, at the crossing of top-down and bottom-up design.\n\nThe neurobiologists apply a \"bottom-up\" research strategy in their studies. This strategy seems to prove necessary and sufficient to understand a brain in its entirety after the impressive achievements in studying the entire nervous system of a simple model organism, such as \"Caenorhabditis elegans\". However it is not wholly viable to actual experimentation considering the impossibility of simultaneously examining all cellular elements of the brain and all variables that affect those elements.\n\nThe \"top-down\" strategy with the assistance of black box theory appears easier to bring to fulfillment but insufficient and irrelevant in understanding the mechanisms coordinating the local networks of cellular elements.\nThe \"neuroheuristic\" (or \"neuristic\") paradigm offers as a needed and possible distinct approach to the study of brain and mind.\nIn this framework, a \"result\" cannot be simply positive or negative because the process itself cannot be reduced to proficiency as such. Dynamics is an essential feature of the neuroheuristic paradigm, but it cannot be merely considered as the neurobiological facet of holism as opposed to reductionism.\n"}
{"id": "3618066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3618066", "title": "Normative science", "text": "Normative science\n\nIn the applied sciences, normative science is a type of information that is developed, presented, or interpreted based on an assumed, usually unstated, preference for a particular policy or class of policies. Regular or traditional science does not presuppose a policy preference, but normative science, by definition, does. Common examples of such policy preferences are arguments that pristine ecosystems are preferable to human altered ones, that native species are preferable to nonnative species, and that higher biodiversity is preferable to lower biodiversity.\n\nIn more general philosophical terms, normative science is a form of inquiry, typically involving a community of inquiry and its accumulated body of provisional knowledge, that seeks to discover good ways of achieving recognized aims, ends, goals, objectives, or purposes. Many political debates revolve around arguments over which of the many \"good ways\" shall be selected. For example, when presented as scientific information, words such as ecosystem health, biological integrity, and environmental degradation are typically examples of normative science because they each presuppose a policy preference and are therefore a type of policy advocacy.\n"}
{"id": "1363882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1363882", "title": "Ordinary and extraordinary care", "text": "Ordinary and extraordinary care\n\nOrdinary and extraordinary care are distinguished by some bioethical theories, including the teaching of the Catholic Church. Ordinary care is obligatory, but can become extraordinary care under certain situations. Extraordinary care is care whose provision involves a disproportionately great burden on the patient or community, and hence is not morally obligatory. \n\nOn the Catholic version of the distinction, the natural provision of life necessities, such as food, air, and water, is an example of ordinary care, although it does not exhaust ordinary care, since easily performed medical procedures (that do not impose an undue burden on patient and community) will also be ordinary care.\n"}
{"id": "593095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=593095", "title": "Panpsychism", "text": "Panpsychism\n\nIn philosophy, panpsychism is the view that consciousness, mind, or soul (psyche) is a universal and primordial feature of all things. Panpsychists see themselves as minds in a world of mind.\n\nPanpsychism is one of the oldest philosophical theories, and has been ascribed to philosophers like Thales, Parmenides, Plato, Averroes, Spinoza, Leibniz, and William James. Panpsychism can also be seen in ancient philosophies such as Stoicism, Taoism, Vedanta and Mahayana Buddhism. During the 19th century, panpsychism was the default theory in philosophy of mind, but it saw a decline during the middle years of the 20th century with the rise of logical positivism. The recent interest in the hard problem of consciousness has revived interest in panpsychism.\n\nThe term \"panpsychism\" has its origins with the Greek term \"pan\" (πᾶν : \"all, everything, whole\") and \"psyche\" (ψυχή: \"soul, mind\") as the unifying center of the mental life of us humans and other living creatures.\" Psyche comes from the Greek word ψύχω (\"psukhō\", \"I blow\") and can mean life, soul, mind, spirit, heart and 'life-breath'. The use of \"psyche\" is controversial due to it being synonymous with \"soul\", a term usually taken to have some sort of supernatural quality; more common terms now found in the literature include mind, mental properties, mental aspect, and experience.\n\nPanpsychists like David Chalmers subscribe to a distinction between microphenomenal experiences, the experiences of microphysical entities and macrophenomenal, the experiences other entities like humans.\n\nEarly forms of panpsychism can be found in pre-modern animistic beliefs in religions such as Shinto, Taoism, Paganism and shamanism. Panpsychist views are also a staple theme in pre-Socratic Greek philosophy. According to Aristotle, Thales (c. 624 – 545 BCE) the first Greek philosopher, posited a theory which held \"that everything is full of gods.\" Thales believed that this was demonstrated by magnets. This has been interpreted as a panpsychist doctrine. Other Greek thinkers that have been associated with Panpsychism include Anaxagoras (who saw the underlying principle or arche as nous or mind), Anaximenes (who saw the arche as pneuma or spirit) and Heraclitus (who said \"The thinking faculty is common to all\").\n\nPlato argues for Panpsychism in his \"Sophist\", in which he writes that all things participate in the form of Being and that it must have a psychic aspect of mind and soul (psyche). In the Philebus and Timaeus, Plato argues for the idea of a world soul or anima mundi. According to Plato:\n\nStoicism developed a cosmology which held that the natural world was infused with a divine fiery essence called Pneuma, which was directed by a universal intelligence called Logos. The relationship of the individual Logos of beings with the universal Logos was a central concern of the Roman Stoic Marcus Aurelius. The Metaphysics of Stoicism was based on Hellenistic philosophies such as Neoplatonism and Gnosticism also made use of the Platonic idea of the Anima mundi.\n\nAfter the closing of Plato's Academy by the Emperor Justinian in 529 CE, Neoplatonism declined. Though there were mediaeval Christian thinkers who ventured what might be called panpsychist ideas (such as John Scotus Eriugena), it was not a dominant strain in Christian thought. In the Italian Renaissance, however, Panpsychism enjoyed something of an intellectual revival, in the thought of figures such as Gerolamo Cardano, Bernardino Telesio, Francesco Patrizi, Giordano Bruno, and Tommaso Campanella. Cardano argued for the view that soul or anima was a fundamental part of the world and Patrizi introduced the actual term \"panpsychism\" into the philosophical vocabulary. According to Giordano Bruno: \"There is nothing that does not possess a soul and that has no vital principle.\" Platonist ideas like the anima mundi also resurfaced in the work of esoteric thinkers like Paracelsus, Robert Fludd and Cornelius Agrippa.\n\nIn the 17th century, two rationalists can be said to be panpsychists, Baruch Spinoza and Gottfried Leibniz. In Spinoza's monism, the one single infinite and eternal substance is \"God, or Nature\" (Deus sive Natura) which has the aspects of mind (thought) and matter (extension). Leibniz' view is that there are an infinite number of absolutely simple mental substances called monads which make up the fundamental structure of the universe. The Idealist philosophy of George Berkeley is also a form of pure panpsychism and technically all idealists can be said to be panpsychists by default.\n\nIn the 19th century, Panpsychism was at its zenith. Philosophers like Arthur Schopenhauer, C.S Peirce, Josiah Royce, William James, Eduard von Hartmann, F.C.S. Schiller, Ernst Haeckel and William Kingdon Clifford as well as psychologists like Gustav Fechner, Wilhelm Wundt and Rudolf Hermann Lotze all promoted Panpsychist ideas.\n\nArthur Schopenhauer argued for a two-sided view of reality which was both Will and Representation (Vorstellung). According to Schopenhauer: \"All ostensible mind can be attributed to matter, but all matter can likewise be attributed to mind\".\n\nJosiah Royce, the leading American absolute idealist held that reality was a \"world self\", a conscious being that comprised everything, though he didn't necessarily attribute mental properties to the smallest constituents of mentalistic \"systems\". The American Pragmatist philosopher Charles Sanders Peirce espoused a sort of Psycho-physical Monism in which the universe was suffused with mind which he associated with spontaneity and freedom. Following Pierce, William James also espoused a form of panpsychism. In his lecture notes, James wrote: \nOur only intelligible notion of an object \"in itself\" is that it should be an object \"for itself\", and this lands us in panpsychism and a belief that our physical perceptions are effects on us of 'psychical' realities\nIn 1893, Paul Carus proposed his own philosophy similar to panpsychism known as 'panbiotism', which he defined as \"everything is fraught with life; it contains life; it has the ability to live.\"\n\nIn the 20th century, the most significant proponent of the Panpsychist view is arguably Alfred North Whitehead (1861-1947). Whitehead's ontology saw the basic nature of the world as made up of events and the process of their creation and extinction. These elementary events (which he called occasions) are in part mental. According to Whitehead: \"we should conceive mental operations as among the factors which make up the constitution of nature.\" Bertrand Russell's neutral monist views also tended towards panpsychism.\n\nThe psychologist Carl Jung, who is known for his idea of the collective unconscious, wrote that \"psyche and matter are contained in one and the same world, and moreover are in continuous contact with one another\", and that it was probable that \"psyche and matter are two different aspects of one and the same thing\". The psychologists James Ward and Charles Augustus Strong also endorsed variants of panpsychism.\n\nSewall Wright endorsed a version of panpsychism. He believed that the birth of consciousness was not due to a mysterious property of increasing complexity, but rather an inherent property, therefore implying these properties were in the most elementary particles.\n\nThe panpsychist doctrine has recently been making a comeback in the American philosophy of mind. Prominent defenders include Christian de Quincey, Leopold Stubenberg, David Ray Griffin, and David Skrbina. In 1990, the physicist David Bohm published a paper named \"A New theory of the relationship of mind and matter\" promoting a panpsychist theory of consciousness based on Bohm's interpretation of quantum mechanics. Bohm has a number of followers among philosophers of mind both in United States (e.g. Quentin Smith) and internationally (e.g. Paavo Pylkkänen). In the United Kingdom the case for panpsychism has been made in recent decades by Galen Strawson, Gregg Rosenberg and Timothy Sprigge.\n\nIn the philosophy of mind, panpsychism is one possible solution to the so-called hard problem of consciousness. The doctrine has also been applied in the field of environmental philosophy through the work of Australian philosopher Freya Mathews. David Chalmers has provided a sympathetic account of it in \"The Conscious Mind\" (1996). In addition, neuroscientist Christof Koch has proposed a \"scientifically refined version\" of panpsychism.\n\nThe problems found with emergentism are often cited by panpsychists as grounds to reject physicalism. This argument can be traced back to the Ancient Greek philosopher Parmenides, who argued that \"ex nihilo nihil fit\" — nothing comes from nothing and thus the mental cannot arise from the non-mental.\n\nIn his 1979 article \"Panpsychism\", Thomas Nagel tied panpsychism to the failure of emergentism to deal with metaphysical relation: \"There are no truly emergent properties of complex systems. All properties of complex systems that are not relations between it and something else derive from the properties of its constituents and their effects on each other when so combined.\" Thus he denies that mental properties can arise out of complex relationships between physical matter. Opposing Nagel, emergentist philosophers Roberto Mangabeira Unger in \"The Religion of The Future\" and Alexander Bard & Jan Söderqvist in \"Syntheism - Creating God in The Internet Age\" have argued that the reality of time enables complex systems to have truly emergent (as in irreversible and irreproducible) properties, thereby replacing any need for panpsychism with a chronocentric, strong emergentism.\n\nThe most popular empirically based argument for panpsychism stems from Darwinism and is a form of the non-emergence argument. This argument begins with the assumption that evolution is a process that creates complex systems out of pre-existing properties but yet cannot make \"entirely novel\" properties. William Kingdon Clifford argued that: \nIn his book titled \"Mortal Questions\", Thomas Nagel defines panpsychism as, \"the view that the basic physical constituents of the universe have mental properties,\" effectively claiming the panpsychist thesis to be a type of property dualism. Nagel argues that panpsychism follows from four premises:\n\nNagel notes that new physical properties are discovered through explanatory inference from known physical properties; following a similar process, mental properties would seem to derive from properties of matter not included under the label of \"physical properties\", and so they must be additional properties of matter. Also, he argues that, \"the demand for an account of how mental states necessarily appear in physical organisms cannot be satisfied by the discovery of uniform correlations between mental states and physical brain states.\" Furthermore, Nagel argues mental states are real by appealing to the inexplicability of subjective experience, or qualia, by physical means.\n\nPhilosophers such as Alfred North Whitehead have drawn on the indeterminacy observed by quantum physics to defend panpsychism. A similar line of argument has been repeated subsequently by a number of thinkers including the physicist David Bohm, anesthesiologist Stuart Hameroff and philosophers such as Quentin Smith, Paavo Pylkkänen, and Shan Gao. The advocates of panpsychist quantum consciousness theories see quantum indeterminacy and informational but non-causal relations between quantum elements as the key to explaining consciousness. Recent work on this approach has been also undertaken by William Lycan (1996) and Michael Lockwood (1991).\n\nThese arguments are based on the idea that everything must have an intrinsic nature. They argue that while the objects studied by physics are described in a dispositional way, these dispositions must be based on some non-dispositional intrinsic attributes, which Whitehead called the \"mysterious reality in the background, intrinsically unknowable\". While we have no way of knowing what these intrinsic attributes are like, we can know the intrinsic nature of conscious experience which possesses irreducible and intrinsic characteristics. Arthur Schopenhauer argued that while the world appears to us as representation, there must be 'an object that grounds' representation, which he called the 'inner essence' (\"das innere Wesen\") and 'natural force' (\"Naturkraft\"), which lies outside of what our understanding perceives as natural law.\nPhilosophers such as Galen Strawson, Roger Penrose (1989), John Searle (1991), Thomas Nagel (1979, 1986, 1999) and Noam Chomsky (1999) have said that a revolutionary change in physics may be needed to solve the problem of consciousness. Galen Strawson has also called for a revised \"realistic physicalism\" arguing that \"the experiential considered specifically as such — the portion of reality we have to do with when we consider experiences specifically and solely in respect of the experiential character they have for those who have them as they have them — that 'just is' physical\".\n\nOne criticism of panpsychism is the simple lack of evidence that the physical entities have any mental attributes. John Searle states that panpsychism is an \"absurd view\" and that thermostats lack \"enough structure even to be a remote candidate for consciousness\" (Searle, 1997, p. 48).\n\nPhysicalists also could argue against panpsychism by denying proposition (2) of Nagel's argument. If mental properties are reduced to physical properties of a physical system, then it does not follow that all matter has mental properties: it is in virtue of the structural or functional organization of the physical system that the system can be said to have a mind, not simply that it is made of matter. This is the common Functionalist position. This view allows for certain man-made systems that are properly organized, such as some computers, to be said to have minds. This may cause problems when (4) is taken into account. Also, qualia seem to undermine the reduction of mental properties to brain properties.\n\nSome have argued that the only properties shared by all qualia are that they are not precisely \"describable\", and thus are of indeterminate meaning within any philosophy which relies upon precise definition according to these critics (that is, it tends to presuppose a definition for mentality without describing it in any real detail). The need to define better the terms used within the thesis of panpsychism is recognized by panpsychist David Skrbina, and he resorts to asserting some sort of hierarchy of mental terms to be used. This is motivation to argue for panexperientialism rather than panpsychism, since only the most fundamental meaning of mind is what is present in all matter, namely, subjective experience.\n\nThe panpsychist answers both these challenges in the same way: we already know what qualia are through direct, introspective apprehension; and we likewise know what conscious mentality is by virtue of being conscious. For someone like Alfred North Whitehead, third-person description takes second place to the intimate connection between every entity and every other which is, he says, the very fabric of reality. To take a mere \"description\" as having primary reality is to commit the \"fallacy of misplaced concreteness\".\n\nOne response is to separate the phenomenal, non-cognitive aspects of consciousness—particularly qualia, the essence of the hard problem of consciousness—from cognition. Thus panpsychism is transformed into panexperientialism. However, this strategy of division generates problems of its own: what is going on causally in the head of someone who is thinking—cognitively of course—about their qualia?\n\nPanpsychism can be understood as related to a number of other metaphysical positions.\n\nPanpsychism agrees with idealism that in a sense everything is mental, but whereas idealism treats most things as \"mental content\" or ideas, panpsychism treats them as \"mind-like\", in some sense, and as having their own reality. Also, in contrast to many forms of idealism, it holds that for all minds, there is a single, external, spatio-temporal world.\n\nIn contrast to \"idealism\", as this term is often used, panpsychism is not a doctrine of the unreality of the spatio-temporal world perceived through the senses, or its reduction to mere \"ideas\" in the human or divine mind. The constituents of this world are, for panpsychists, just as real as human minds or as any mind. Indeed, they are minds, though, in large part, of an extremely low, subhuman order. Thus panpsychism is panpsychical realism; realistic both in the sense of admitting the reality of nature, and in the sense of avoiding an exaggerated view of the qualities of its ordinary constituents. \"Souls\" may be very humble sorts of entities––for example, the soul of a frog––and panpsychists usually suppose that multitudes of units of nature are on a much lower level of psychic life even than that.\n\nPanpsychists and dualists agree that mental properties cannot be reduced to physical properties. The difference is that dualists consider mental and physical properties\nto be \"qualitatively\" different, to belong to different categories with virtually nothing in common (for instance, Descartes' characterisation of matter and mind as \"extension\" and \"thought\"), whereas panpsychists view\nphysical properties as lesser \"quantities\" of mental properties. For instance, a panpsychist would interpret the ability of a stone to move under an impact to be a highly diminished form of sensitivity, with no element of volition. This distinction also separates dual aspect theory from panpsychism: although dual aspect theorists can agree with panpsychists that everything has some mental properties, they also hold that everything has some physical properties, whereas panpsychists hold that physical properties \"are\" (lessened) mental properties.\n\nThere are also varieties of monism that don't presuppose (like materialism and idealism do) that mind and matter are fundamentally separable. An example is neutral monism first introduced by Spinoza and later propounded by William James. Neutral monism is often coupled with dual aspect theory which maintains that mental and physical are two perspectives on a reality that is neither mental nor physical. Panpsychism, on the other hand, holds that the physical is the (attenuated) mental.\n\nReductive physicalism, a form of monism, is normally assumed to be incompatible with panpsychism. Materialism, if held to be distinct from physicalism, is compatible with panpsychism insofar as mental properties are attributed to physical matter, which is the only basic substance.\n\nPanpsychism is related to the more holistic view that the whole Universe is an organism that possesses a mind (cosmic consciousness). It is claimed to be distinct from animism or hylozoism, which hold that all things have a soul or are alive, respectively. Gustav Theodor Fechner claimed in \"Nanna\" and \"Zend-Avesta\" that the Earth is a living organism whose parts are the people, the animals and the plants.\n\nPanpsychism, as a view that the universe has \"universal consciousness\", is shared by some forms of religious thought such as theosophy, pantheism, cosmotheism, non-dualism, new age thought and panentheism. The hundredth monkey effect exemplifies the threshold for this applied cosmic consciousness. The Tiantai Buddhist view is that \"when one attains it, all attain it\".\n\nHylopathism argues for a similarly universal attribution of sentience to matter. Few writers would advocate a hylopathic materialism, although the idea is not new; it has been formulated as \"whatever underlies consciousness in a material sense, i.e., whatever it is about the brain that gives rise to consciousness, must necessarily be present to some degree in any other material thing\". A compound state of mind does not consist of compounded psychic atoms. The \nconcept of awareness \"being in itself\" allows for the idea of self-aware matter. Attempts have been made to conceptualize this primitive level of existence prior to associative learning and memory. In the way that the collection of self-aware matter constitutes a cognitive being, the collection of cognitive beings as a conglomerate entity, reﬂects panpsychism. Consciousness was not \"nascent\" but emergent due to a lack of abandon during the evolution of material awareness.\n\nSimilar ideas have been attributed to Australian philosopher David Chalmers, who assumes that consciousness is a fundamental feature of the Universe, what he refers to as the First Datum in the study of the mind. In the practice of non-reductionism this feature may not be attributable to any base monad but instead radically emergent on the level of physical complexity at which it demonstrates itself. Complex elegance is the further development of awareness that is self-aware. This we can call \"post-intelligence\" where \"intelligence\" is simple processing. The element of superiority might be that the post-intelligence is proto-experiential. These phenomenal properties are called \"the internal aspects of information\".\n\nIn philosophy, emergentism is the belief in emergence, particularly as it involves consciousness and the philosophy of mind, and as it contrasts (or not) with reductionism. A property of a system is said to be emergent if it is a new outcome of some other properties of the system and their interaction, while it is itself different from them. Emergent properties are not identical with, reducible to, or deducible from the other properties. The different ways in which this independence requirement can be satisfied lead to variant types of emergence.\n\nPanexperientialism and \"panprotoexperientialism\" are related concepts. Panexperientialism is associated with the philosophies of Charles Hartshorne and Alfred North Whitehead, although the term itself was invented by David Ray Griffin in order to distinguish the process philosophical view from other varieties of panpsychism.\n\nWhitehead's metaphysics incorporated a scientific worldview similar to Einstein's theory of relativity into the development of his philosophical system. His process philosophy argues that the fundamental elements of the universe are \"occasions of experience,\" which can together create something as complex as a human being. This experience is not consciousness; there is no mind-body duality under this system, since mind is seen as a particularly developed kind of experience. Whitehead was not a subjective idealist, and while his occasions of experience (or \"actual occasions\") resemble Leibniz's monads, they are described as constitutively interrelated. He embraced panentheism, with God encompassing all occasions of experience and yet still transcending them. Whitehead believed that these occasions of experience are the smallest element in the universe—even smaller than subatomic particles.\n\nPanprotoexperientialism is a theory found in the works of Gregg Rosenberg. For his part, process philosopher Michel Weber argues for a pancreativism.\n\nThe ecological phenomenology carefully developed in the writings of the American cultural ecologist and philosopher, David Abram, is often (and quite appropriately) described as a form of panexperientialism, as is the \"poetic biology\" developed by Abram's close associate, the German biologist Andreas Weber.\n\nCosmopsychism is the theory that the cosmos is a proper whole, a unified object that is ontologically prior to its parts. Proponents of cosmopsychism claim that the cosmos as a whole is the fundamental level of reality and that it instantiates consciousness, which is how the view differs from panpsychism, where the claim is usually that the smallest level of reality is fundamental and instantiates consciousness. Accordingly, human consciousness, for example, is merely derivative from the cosmic consciousness.\n\nAccording to Graham Parkes: \"Most of traditional Chinese, Japanese and Korean philosophy would qualify as panpsychist in nature. For the philosophical schools best known in the west — Neo-confucianism and Japanese Buddhism — the world is a dynamic force field of energies known as qi or bussho (Buddha nature) and classifiable in western terms as \"psychophysical\".\" According to Advaita Vedanta, the non-dualistic school of Hinduism, Brahman is the underlying consciousness that is the foundation of all reality.\n\nAccording to D. S. Clarke, panpsychist and panexperientialist aspects can be found in the Huayan and Tiantai (Jpn. Tendai) Buddhist doctrines of Buddha nature, which was often attributed to inanimate objects such as lotus flowers and mountains. Tiantai patriarch Zhanran argued that \"even non-sentient beings have Buddha nature.\"\n\nWho, then, is \"animate\" and who \"inanimate\"? Within the assembly of the Lotus, all are present without division. In the case of grass, trees and the soil...whether they merely lift their feet or energetically traverse the long path, they will all reach Nirvana.\n\nThe Tiantai school was transmitted to Japan by Saicho, who spoke of the \"buddha-nature of trees and rocks\".\n\nAccording to the 9th-century Shingon Buddhist thinker Kukai, the Dharmakaya is nothing other than the physical universe and natural objects like rocks and stones are included as part of the supreme embodiment of the Buddha. The Soto Zen master Dogen also argued for the universality of Buddha nature. According to Dogen, \"fences, walls, tiles, and pebbles\" are also \"mind\" (心,\"shin\"). Dogen also argued that \"insentient beings expound the teachings\" and that the words of the eternal Buddha \"are engraved on trees and on rocks . . . in fields and in villages\". This is the message of his \"Mountains and Waters Sutra\" (Sansui kyô).\n\nAccording to a common misunderstanding, in the Buddhist Dzogchen tradition , particularly Dzogchen Semde or \"mind series\" the principal text of which is the Kulayarāja Tantra, there is nothing which is non-sentient, i.e. everything is sentient. Moreover, two of the English scholars that opened the discourse of the Bardo literature of the Nyingma Dzogchen tradition, Evans-Wentz & Jung (1954, 2000: p. 10) specifically with their partial translation and commentary of the \"Bardo Thodol\" into the English language write of the \"One Mind\" (Tibetan: sems nyid gcig; Sanskrit: *ekacittatva; *ekacittata; where * denotes a possible Sanskrit back-formation) thus:\n\nIt should be borne in mind, that Evans-Wentz never studied the Tibetan language and that the lama who did the main translation work for him was of the Gelukpa Sect and is not known to have actually studied or practiced Dzogchen.\n\nAccording to the translation with commentary, \"Self-Liberation Through Seeing with Naked Awareness\", by John Myrdhin Reynolds, the phrase, \"It is the single nature of mind which encompasses all of Samsara and Nirvana,\" occurs only once in the text and it refers not to \"some sort of Neo-Platonic hypostasis, a universal \"Nous,\" of which all individual minds are but fragments or appendages\", but to the teaching that, \"whether one finds oneself in the state of Samsara or in the state of Nirvana, it is the nature of the mind which reflects with awareness all experiences, no matter what may be their nature.\" This can be found in Appendix I, on pages 80–81. Reynolds elucidates further with the analogy of a mirror. To say that a single mirror can reflect ugliness or beauty, does not constitute an allegation that all ugliness and beauty is one single mirror.\n\nDoctrines\n\n\nPeople\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5215154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5215154", "title": "Participatory theory", "text": "Participatory theory\n\nParticipatory theory, vision or framework is a conceptual framework which attempts to bridge the subject–object distinction. According to Jorge Ferrer, \"the kernel of this participatory vision is a turn from intra-subjective experiences to participatory events in our understanding of transpersonal and spiritual phenomena.\"\n\nA participatory epistemology is a theory of knowledge which holds that meaning is enacted through the participation of the human mind with the world. Originally proposed by Goethe, it has been discussed extensively by cultural historian Richard Tarnas.\n\nIn a participatory epistemology, meaning is neither solely objective nor solely subjective. That is to say that meaning is not, per modern or positivist views, found solely outside of the human mind, in the objective world, waiting to be discovered. Nor, per postmodern or constructivist views, is meaning simply constructed or projected onto an inherently meaningless world by the subjective human mind. Rather, Tarnas argues that meaning is \"enacted\" through the dialectical participation of the human mind with the larger meaning of the cosmos. Thus meaning exists \"in potentia\" in the cosmos, but must be articulated by human consciousness before it exists in actuality.In this view, the essential reality of nature is not separate, self-contained, and complete in itself, so that the human mind can examine it \"objectively\" and register it from without. Rather, nature's unfolding truth emerges only with the active participation of the human mind. Nature's reality is not merely phenomenal, nor is it independent and objective; rather, it is something that comes into being through the very act of human cognition. Nature becomes intelligible to itself through the human mind.\n\nAccording to Tarnas, participatory epistemology is rooted in the thought of Goethe, Schiller, Schelling, Hegel, Coleridge, Emerson, and Rudolf Steiner.\n\nIn the field of transpersonal psychology, the \"participatory turn\" endorsed by Jorge Ferrer suggests that transpersonal phenomena are participatory and co-creative events. Ferrer defines these events as \"emergences of transpersonal being that can occur not only in the locus of an individual, but also in a relationship, a community, a collective identity or a place.\" This participatory knowing is multidimensional, and includes all the powers of the human being (body/heart/soul), as understood from a transpersonal framework. Ferrer's vision includes a spiritual reality that is plural and multiple, and a spiritual power that may produce a wide range of revelations and insights, which in turn may be overlapping, or even incompatible.\n\nCriticism\n\nKen Wilber argues that participatory epistemology is limited in its appropriate scope to observing the interior of a subjective plural domain. Ferrer argues that Wilber's criticisms of participatory theory have conflated pluralism with vulgar relativism.\n\nPsychoanalyst Robin S. Brown has promoted a participatory perspective in the context of relational psychoanalysis as a means to fostering clinical pluralism. Brown adopts a participatory reading of Jungian archetypes as a basis from which to theorize alterity in the clinical situation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48384961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48384961", "title": "Paul E. Griffiths", "text": "Paul E. Griffiths\n\nPaul Griffiths is Professor of Philosophy at the University of Sydney and works primarily in the Philosophy of Science and more particularly Philosophy of Biology. Born in England in 1962, he received a B.A. from the University of Cambridge in 1984 and a Ph.D. in philosophy from the Australian National University in 1989 under the supervision of Kim Sterelny. He taught previously at the University of Pittsburgh, the University of Queensland and the University of Otago. He spends part of each year at the University of Exeter in the Egenis: the Centre for the Study of the Life Sciences. Griffiths is a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and of the Australian Academy of the Humanities.\n\nGriffiths, together with Russell Gray developed a theoretical perspective on biological development, heredity, and evolution known as developmental systems theory (DST).\n\nTogether with his former advisor Kim Sterelny, in 1999, Griffiths published \"Sex and Death\", a comprehensive treatment of problems and alternative positions in the philosophy of biology. This book incorporated a number of the positions developed in previous articles on the range of topics in the philosophy of biology.\n\nHis last book, published in 2013, in collaboration with Karola Stotz, focuses on the philosophy of genetics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7652097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7652097", "title": "Perceptual paradox", "text": "Perceptual paradox\n\nA perceptual paradox illustrates the failure of a theoretical prediction. Theories of perception are supposed to help a researcher predict what will be perceived when senses are stimulated.\n\nA theory usually comprises a mathematical model (formula),\nrules for collecting physical measurements for input into the model,\nand rules for collecting physical measurements to which model outputs should map. When arbitrarily choosing valid input data, the model should reliably generate output data that is indistinguishable from that which is measured in the system being modeled.\n\nAlthough each theory may be useful for some limited predictions,\ntheories of vision, hearing, touch, smell, and taste are not typically\nreliable for comprehensive modeling of perception based on sensory inputs. A paradox illustrates where a theoretical prediction fails.\nSometimes, even in the absence of a predictive theory,\nthe characteristics of perception seem nonsensical.\n\nThis page lists some paradoxes and seemingly impossible properties of perception. When an animal is not named in connection with the discussion, human perception should be assumed since\nthe majority of perceptual research data applies to humans.\n\n\nA perceptual paradox, in its purest form is a statement\nillustrating the failure of a formula to predict\nwhat we perceive from what our senses transduce.\n\nA seemingly nonsensical characteristic is a statement of factual observation\nthat is sufficiently intractable that no theory has been proposed to account for it.\n\nOne branch of research into perception attempts to explain\nwhat we perceive by applying formulae to sensory inputs\nand expecting outputs similar to that which we perceive.\nFor example: what we measure with our eyes should be predicted\nby applying formulae to what we measure with instruments that imitate our eye.\n\nPast researchers have made formulae that predict\nsome, but not all, perceptual phenomena from their sensory origins.\nModern researchers continue to make formulae to overcome\nthe shortcomings of earlier formulae.\n\nSome formulae are carefully constructed to mimic\nactual structures and functions of sensory mechanisms.\nOther formulae are constructed by great leaps of faith\nabout similarity in mathematical curves.\n\nNo perceptual formulae have been raised to the status of \"natural law\"\nin the way that the laws of gravitation and electrical attraction have.\nSo, perceptual formulae continue to be an active area of development\nas scientists strive towards the great insight required of a law.\n\nSome Nobel laureates have paved the way with clear statements of good practice:\n\nIn the preface to his Histology\n\nSantiago Ramón y Cajal\nwrote that \"Practitioners will only be able to claim that a valid explanation of a histological observation has been provided if three questions can be answered satisfactorily: what is the functional role of the arrangement in the animal; what mechanisms underlie this function; and what sequence of chemical and mechanical events during evolution and development gave rise to these mechanisms?\"\n\nAllvar Gullstrand described the problems that arise\nwhen approaching the optics of the eye as if they were as predictable as camera optics.\n\nCharles Scott Sherrington, considered the brain to be\nthe \"crowning achievement of the reflex system\",\n(which can be interpreted as opening all aspects of perception to simple formulae\nexpressed over complex distributions).\n\n\n\nContrast Invariance\nBoundaries between brighter and darker areas\nappear to remain of constant relative contrast\nwhen the ratio of logarithms of the two intensities\nremains constant:\n\nBut the use of logarithms is forbidden\nfor values that can become zero such as formula_4,\nand division is forbidden\nby values that can become zero such as formula_5.\n\nNo published neuroanatomical model predicts the perception\nof contrast invariance.\n\n10 Decade Transduction\n\nLocal Contrast\n\nColor Constancy\nWhen observing objects in a scene, colors appears constant.\nAn apple looks red regardless of where it is viewed.\nIn bright direct sunshine, under a blue sky with the sun obscured,\nduring a colorful sunset, under a canopy of green leaves,\nand even under most man-made light sources,\nthe color of the apple remains unchanging.\n\nColor perception appears to be independent of light wavelength.\nEdwin Land demonstrated this by illuminating a room with\ntwo wavelengths of light of approximately 500 nm and 520 nm\n(both improperly called \"green\").\nThe room was perceived in full color,\nwith all colors appearing unattenuated,\nlike red, orange, yellow, blue, and purple,\ndespite the absence of photons other than two close to 510 nm.\nNote that formula_2 light misuses the terminology RGB\nsince color is a perception and\nthere are no such things as \"Red\", \"Green\", or \"Blue\" photons.\n\nJerome Lettvin wrote an article in the Scientific American\n\nillustrating the importance of boundaries and vertices\nin the perception of color.\n\nYet, no published formula predicts the perceived color of objects\nin a single image of arbitrary scene illumination.\n\nTransverse Chromatic Deaberration\nLight that goes through a simple lens such as found in an eye\nundergoes refraction, splitting colors.\nAn formula_2 point-source that is off-center to the eye\nprojects to a pattern where with color separation along a line radial to\nthe central axis of the eye.\nThe color separation can be many photoreceptors wide.\n\nYet, an formula_2 pixel on a television or computer screen appears white\neven when seen sidelong.\n\nNo published neuroanatomical model predicts the perception of\nthe eccentric white pixel.\n\nLongitudinal Chromatic Deaberration\nAs in Transverse Chromatic Deaberration,\ncolor splitting projects also projects the R, G, and B components\nof the formula_2 pixel to different focal lengths,\nresulting in a bulls-eye-like color distribution of light\neven at the center of vision.\n\nNo published neuroanatomical model predicts the perception of\nthe centered white pixel.\n\nSpherical Deaberration\nEyes have corneas and lenses that are imperfectly spherical.\nThis inhomogeneous shape results in a non-circular distribution of photons on the retina.\n\nNo published neuroanatomical model predicts the perception of\nthe non-circularly distributed white pixel.\n\nHyperacuity\nPeople report discrimination much finer than can be predicted\nby interpolating sense data between photosensors.\nHigh performing hyperacute vision in some people\nhas been measured to less than a tenth the radius of a single photoreceptor.\nAmong measures of hyperacuity are the vernier discrimination of two adjacent lines\nand the discrimination of two stars in a night sky.\n\nNo published neuroanatomical model predicts the discrimination of\nthe two white pixels closer together than a single photoreceptor.\n\nPupil Size Inversion\nWhen pupils are narrowed to around 1mm for reading fine print,\nthe size of the central \"Airy\" disk increases to a diameter of 10 photoreceptors.\nThe so-called \"blur\" is increased for reading.\nWhen pupils are widened for fight/flight response,\nthe size of the central \"Airy\" disk decreases to a diameter of about 1.5 photoreceptors.\nThe so-called \"blur\" is decreased in anticipation of large movements.\n\nNo published neuroanatomical model predicts that discrimination\nimproves when pupils are narrowed.\n\nPupil Shape Inversion\nEyes have pupils (apertures) that cause diffraction.\nA point-source of light is distributed on the retina.\nThe distribution for a perfectly circular aperture\nis known by the name \"Airy rings\".\n\nHuman pupils are rarely perfectly circular.\nCat pupils range from almost circular to a vertical slit.\nGoat pupils tend to be horizontal rectangular with rounded corners.\nGecko pupils range from circular, to a slit, to a series of pinholes.\nCuttlefish pupils have complex shapes.\n\nNo published neuroanatomical model predicts the perception of\nthe various pupil shape distributed white pixel.\n\nOne paradoxical perception concerning the sense of smell is the theory of one's own ability to smell. Smell is intrinsic to being alive, and is even shown to be a matter of genetics.\n"}
{"id": "25973624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25973624", "title": "Praying for Power", "text": "Praying for Power\n\nPraying for Power: Buddhism and the Formation of Gentry Society in Late-Ming China is a history book which explores the relationship between Buddhism and Neo-Confucianism during the 17th and 18th centuries in China (the late Ming Dynasty); tourism to Chinese Buddhist sites, and the patronage of Buddhist monasteries in China by Buddhist and Neo-Confucian gentry during this period. This philanthropy allowed these patrons to \"publicize [their] elite status outside the state realm\" and promoted the growth of a society of gentry.\n\nThe book is written by Timothy Brook, a distinguished Canadian historian who specializes in the study of China (Sinology).\n\n\"Praying for Power\" is divided into three main sections:\n\nIn Part 1, \"The Culture of Buddhism\", Brook reviews the development of religious philosophy and politics and the new familiarity with, and openness toward, Buddhism, in what was a Confusianism-dominated society.\n\nIn Part 2, \"Monastic Patronage'\", the author investigates the contributions of the new elite class of gentry, made in the form of \"land donations; money and materials for building and renovation; exercise of social and political influence to forward and protect monastic interests; and 'literary patronage,' the composition of admiring poems and essays or the compilation and printing of an institutional history to elevate the prestige of a given monastery.\"\n\nIn Part 3, \"Patronage in Context\", the author examines in detail patronage by the gentry in three distinct counties: one poor, \"where Buddhist institutions were not well developed\"; a second rich, where they flourished; and a third \"in peculiar circumstances that allow Brook to highlight the ambiguous position of the county magistrate \"vis-à-vis\" monastic patronage.\"\n\n\"Praying for Power\" is frequently cited in other scholarly works and referred to in documents on the web sites of many educational establishments.\n\nWriting in the international journal of Sinology \"T'oung Pao\", Barend J. ter Haar describes \"Praying for Power\" as a \"splendid book\". He states that this \"excellent introduction\" is a \"sound piece of investigative research\" and that the author makes \"important contributions\" in two areas neglected in study in the West: the social history of Buddhism in late Ming China and social elites.\n\nIn \"The American Historical Review\", Lynn Struve writes that the author \"makes a substantial contribution to our understanding of a lamentably neglected subject area: the place of Buddhism in late-Imperial Chinese culture and society.\" She explains that \"the core source material of this book is a large body of local and monastic histories, usually called 'gazetteers' (\"difang zhi\" and \"sizhi\"), and Brook masterfully shows what can be done through assiduous mining of this genre.\" The reviewer does caution, however, that though the specialist will appreciate Part 3 of the book (\"Patronage in Context\"), the non-specialist will find it \"heavy going\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12366254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12366254", "title": "Principles of Political Economy", "text": "Principles of Political Economy\n\nPrinciples of Political Economy (1848) by John Stuart Mill was one of the most important economics or political economy textbooks of the mid-nineteenth century. It was revised until its seventh edition in 1871, shortly before Mill's death in 1873, and republished in numerous other editions. Beside discussing descriptive issues such as which nations tended to benefit more in a system of trade based on comparative advantage (Mill's answer: those with more elastic demands for other countries' goods), the work also discussed normative issues such as ideal systems of political economy, critiquing proposed systems such as communism and socialism. Along with \"A System of Logic\", \"Principles of Political Economy\" established Mill's reputation as a leading public intellectual. Mill's sympathetic attitude in this work and in other essays toward contemporary socialism, particularly Fourierism, earned him esteem from the working class as one of their intellectual champions.\n\nMill's \"Principles\" were written in a style of prose far flung from the introductory texts of today. Devoid of the mathematical graphs and formulae that were only developed after his death, principally by Alfred Marshall, Mill wrote with the rich tone of grandeur that is found in all his books. His book continued to be used well into the twentieth century as the foundational textbook, for instance in Oxford University until 1919.\n\nMill explores the nature of production, beginning with labour and its relationship to nature. He starts by stating, that the \"requisites of production are two: labour, and appropriate natural objects.\" A discussion follows of man's connection to the natural world, and how man must labour to utilise almost anything found in the natural world. He uses a rich array of imagery, from the sewing of cloth, to the turning of wheels and the creation of steam. Man has found a way to harness nature, so that \"the muscular action necessary for this is not constantly renewed, but performed once for all, and there is on the whole a great economy of labour.\" He then turns on the view of who \"takes the credit\" for industry. \"Some writers,\" he says,\n\n\"have raised the question, whether nature gives more assistance to labour in one kind of industry or in another; and have said that in some occupations labour does most, in others nature most. In this, however, there seems much confusion of ideas. The part which nature has in any work of man, is indefinite and incommensurable. It is impossible to decide that in any one thing nature does more than in any other. One cannot even say that labour does less. Less labour may be required; but if that which is required is absolutely indispensable, the result is just as much the product of labour, as of nature. When two conditions are equally necessary for producing the effect at all, it is unmeaning to say that so much of it is produced by one and so much by the other; it is like attempting to decide which half of a pair of scissors has most to do in the act of cutting; or which of the factors, five and six, contributes most to the production of thirty.\"\n\nHe refers to former French Economists and Adam Smith, who thought land rents were higher because there was more nature being provided. In fact, says Mill, the simple answer is that land is scarce, which is what enables greater rent exaction. He mentions that many things are limited in abundance, for instance, Arctic whale fishing, which could not keep supplied the demand. This alludes to an introductory principle of value, that \"as soon as there is not so much of the thing to be had, as would be appropriated and used if it could be obtained for asking; the ownership or use of the natural agent acquires an exchangeable value.\"\n\n\n\nCapital, says Mill, is \"the accumulated stock of the produce of labour\". Though its nature is misunderstood. He gives an example of the consumption of food, as opposed to assets allocated for production.\n\n\"The distinction, then, between Capital and Not-capital, does not lie in the kind of commodities, but in the mind of the capitalist – in his will to employ them for one purpose rather than another; and all property, however ill adapted in itself for the use of labourers, is a part of capital, so soon as it, or the value to be received from it, is set apart for productive reinvestment.\"\n\nCapital, like labour, can be unemployed, and Mill gives an example of inefficient taxation of productive capital. Then he observes the surplus to living standards created by industrialism.\n\n\"Finally, that large portion of the productive capital of a country which is employed in paying the wages and salaries of labourers, evidently is not, all of it, strictly and indispensably necessary for production. As much of it as exceeds the actual necessaries of life and health (an excess which in the case of skilled labourers is usually considerable) is not expended in supporting labour, but in remunerating it, and the labourers could wait for this part of their remuneration until the production is completed; it needs not necessarily pre-exist as capital: and if they unfortunately had to forego it altogether, the same amount of production might take place. In order that the whole remuneration of the labourers should be advanced to them in daily or weekly payments, there must exist in advance, and be appropriated to productive use, a greater stock, or capital, than would suffice to carry on the existing extent of production: greater, by whatever amount of remuneration the labourers receive, beyond what the self-interest of a prudent slave-master would assign to his slaves. In truth, it is only after an abundant capital had already been accumulated, that the practice of paying in advance any remuneration of labour beyond a bare subsistence, could possibly have arisen: since whatever is so paid, is not really applied to production, but to the unproductive consumption of productive labourers, indicating a fund for production sufficiently ample to admit of habitually diverting a part of it to a mere convenience.\"\n\n\n\nIn his third book, Mill addressed one of the issues left unresolved by David Ricardo's theory of comparative advantage, namely to whom the gains of trade were distributed. Mill's answer was that international trade benefited most the country whose demand for goods is most elastic. It is also in this third book, primarily in Chapter I, that Mill considers communism and socialism as alternatives to capitalism.\n\nIn his fourth book Mill set out a number of possible future outcomes, rather than predicting one in particular. The first followed the Malthusian line that population grew quicker than supplies, leading to falling wages and rising profits. The second, per Smith, said if capital accumulated faster than population grew then real wages would rise. Third, echoing David Ricardo, should capital accumulate and population increase at the same rate, yet technology stay stable, there would be no change in real wages because supply and demand for labour would be the same. However growing populations would require more land use, increasing food production costs and therefore decreasing profits. The fourth alternative was that technology advanced faster than population and capital stock increased. The result would be a prospering economy. Mill felt the third scenario most likely, and he assumed technology advanced would have to end at some point. But on the prospect of ever intensifying economic activity, Mill was more ambivalent.\n\n\"I confess I am not charmed with the ideal of life held out by those who think that the normal state of human beings is that of struggling to get on; that the trampling, crushing, elbowing, and treading on each other's heels, which form the existing type of social life, are the most desirable lot of human kind, or anything but the disagreeable symptoms of one of the phases of industrial progress.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1445107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1445107", "title": "Project SHAD", "text": "Project SHAD\n\nProject SHAD, an acronym for Shipboard Hazard and Defense, was part of a larger effort called Project 112, which was conducted during the 1960s. Project SHAD encompassed tests designed to identify U.S. warships' vulnerabilities to attacks with chemical agents or biological warfare agents and to develop procedures to respond to such attacks while maintaining a war-fighting capability.\n\nProject SHAD was part of a larger effort by the Department of Defense called Project 112. Project 112 was a chemical and biological weapons research, development, and testing project conducted by the United States Department of Defense and CIA handled by the Deseret Test Center and United States Army Chemical Materials Agency from 1962 to 1973. The project started under John F. Kennedy's administration, and was authorized by his Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara, as part of a total review of the US military. The name of the project refers to its number in the 150 review process.\n\nThe Shipboard Hazard and Defense Project (SHAD) was a series of tests conducted by the U.S. Department of Defense during the 1960s to determine how well service members aboard military ships could detect and respond to chemical and biological attacks. Dee Dodson Morris of the Army Chemical Corps who coordinated the ongoing investigation, says, \"The SHAD tests were intended to show how vulnerable Navy ships were to chemical or biological warfare agents. The objective was to learn how chemical or biological warfare agents would disperse throughout a ship, and to use that information to develop procedures to protect crewmembers and decontaminate ships.\" DoD investigators note that over a hundred tests were planned but the lack of test results may indicate that many tests were never actually executed. 134 tests were planned initially, but reportedly, only 46 tests were actually completed.\n\nPublic Law 107–314 required the identification and release of not only Project 112 information to the United States Veterans Administration but also that of any other projects or tests where a veteran might have been exposed to a chemical or biological warfare agent and directed The Secretary of Defense to work with veterans and veterans service organizations to identify the other projects or tests conducted by the Department of Defense that may have exposed members of the Armed Forces to chemical or biological agents. In 2000 the Department of Defense began the process of declassifying records about the project and according to the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs, approximately 6,000 U.S. Service members were believed involved in conducting the tests. In 2002, the Department of Defense began publishing a list of fact sheets for each of the tests.\n\nAlthough many of the roughly 5,500 veterans who took part were aware of the tests, some were involved without their knowledge. \nCertain issues surrounding the test program were not resolved by the passage of the law and the Department of Defense was accused of continuing to withhold documents on Cold War chemical and biological weapons tests that used unsuspecting veterans as \"human samplers\" after reporting to Congress it had released all medically relevant information.\nA Government Accounting Office May 2004 report, \"Chemical and Biological Defense: DOD Needs to Continue to Collect and Provide Information on Tests and Potentially Exposed Personnel\" indicates that almost all participants who were identified from Project 112 — 94 percent — were from ship-based tests of Project SHAD that comprised only about one-third of the total number of tests conducted.\n\nJack Alderson, a retired Navy officer who commanded the Army tugboats told CBS News that he believes the Pentagon used him and other service members to test weapons and those tests including agents, vaccines, and decontamination products have led to serious medical problems including cancer.\nSecrecy agreements can now be ignored by veterans in order to pursue healthcare concerns within the Department of Veterans Affairs. The V.A. has offered screening programs for veterans who believe they were involved in DoD sponsored tests during their service. The Institute of Medicine of the National Academies has commissioned studies of Project SHAD participants. The first, \"Long-Term Health Effects of Participation in Project SHAD (Shipboard Hazard and Defense)\" was released in 2007 and found \"no clear evidence that specific long-term health effects are associated with participation in Project SHAD.\" The second, \"Shipboard Hazard and Defense II (SHAD II)\" by IOM's Medical Follow-up Agency (MFUA) began in 2012 and as of April 2014 is ongoing.\n\nfrom SHAD Fact Sheets\n\n\n\n\n\n\"OSD & Joint Staff FOIA Requester Service Center\"\n"}
{"id": "37891248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37891248", "title": "Relationship forming", "text": "Relationship forming\n\nRelationship forming focuses on the decision-making process leading to a relationship. It therefore differs from relationship therapy which focuses on improving an existing relationship. Put differently, relationship forming is about \"making the right choice\", while relationship therapy is about \"making the choice work\". Discontent at failure to achieve such a relationship is on occasion referred to as TFL (true forced loneliness); although some TFLers may have life satisfaction despite not forming a relationship.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42477601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42477601", "title": "Robert Stern (philosopher)", "text": "Robert Stern (philosopher)\n\nRobert Stern (born February 1962) is a professor of philosophy at the University of Sheffield, Sheffield, United Kingdom. He is a British philosopher who is known for his work on the history of philosophy, particularly Hegel and Immanuel Kant. His current research is focused on the Danish ethicist Knud Ejler Løgstrup. \n\nStern graduated from St John's College, Cambridge, and then became a research fellow there. He has been a professor at the University of Sheffield since 2000, and was the head of the Department of Philosophy from 2004 to 2008.\n\nHe is on the editorial board of the \"European Journal of Philosophy\", and he is the current president of the British Philosophical Association.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6780486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6780486", "title": "Sandie Lindsay, 1st Baron Lindsay of Birker", "text": "Sandie Lindsay, 1st Baron Lindsay of Birker\n\nAlexander Dunlop Lindsay, 1st Baron Lindsay of Birker (born 14 May 1879 in Glasgow, Scotland; died 18 March 1952), known as Sandie Lindsay, was a Scottish academic and peer.\n\nHe was the son of Anna and Thomas Martin Lindsay. Lindsay was educated from 1887 at the Glasgow Academy, then at the University of Glasgow, where he gained a Master of Arts degree in 1899, and lastly at University College, Oxford, where he took a Double First in 1902.\n\nIn 1903 he won the Shaw fellowship in moral philosophy at Edinburgh University, as had his father, the first recipient of this award. He was assistant lecturer in philosophy at the Victoria University of Manchester from 1904–1906, when he was elected a fellow and tutor in philosophy at Balliol College, Oxford.\n\nDuring the First World War he served in France, was mentioned twice in dispatches, and was a Lieutenant-colonel.\n\nHe was Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Glasgow (1922–24). He was president of the Aristotelian Society from 1924 to 1925. In 1924 he became master of Balliol College and became Vice-Chancellor of the University of Oxford from 1935–38. He worked with Lord Nuffield who donated £1m to fund a new physical chemistry laboratory and a postgraduate college for social studies, Nuffield College, Oxford in 1937.\n\nAt Oxford, Lindsay was a leading figure in the adult education movement. On his retirement from Balliol, in 1949, Lindsay was appointed the first Principal of the University College of North Staffordshire which opened in 1949 and is now Keele University.\n\nIn 1938, Lindsay stood for Parliament in the Oxford by-election as an 'Independent Progressive' on the single issue of opposition to the Munich Agreement, with support from the Labour and Liberal parties as well as from many Conservatives including the future Prime Ministers Winston Churchill, Harold Macmillan and Edward Heath, but lost to the official Conservative candidate, Quintin Hogg.\n\nIn 1949 Lindsay became the Founding Principal of the University College of North Staffordshire, which opened at Keele Hall in 1950. This unique institution - the first UK University of the 20th Century - tested many of Lindsay's educational principles and reflected the postwar idealism of its day. Known by many as the \"Keele Experiment\", many of the features of the New Universities of the 1960s were tested at Keele. The University College became the University of Keele in 1962.\n\nLindsay married Erica Violet Storr (1877 - 28 May 1962), daughter of Francis Storr, in 1907 and they had two sons and one daughter.\n\nHe was elevated to the peerage on 13 November 1945 as Baron Lindsay of Birker, of Low Ground in the County of Cumberland. He was succeeded in the barony by his eldest son Michael Francis Morris Lindsay.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "244629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=244629", "title": "Scientific law", "text": "Scientific law\n\nThe laws of science, also called scientific laws or scientific principles, are statements that describe or predict a range of natural phenomena. Each scientific law is a statement based on repeated experimental observations that describes some aspect of the Universe. The term \"law\" has diverse usage in many cases (approximate, accurate, broad, or narrow theories) across all fields of natural science (physics, chemistry, biology, geology, astronomy, etc.). Scientific laws summarize and explain a large collection of facts determined by experiment, and are tested based on their ability to predict the results of future experiments. They are developed either from facts or through mathematics, and are strongly supported by empirical evidence. It is generally understood that they reflect causal relationships fundamental to reality, and are discovered rather than invented.\n\nLaws reflect scientific knowledge that experiments have repeatedly verified (and never falsified). Their accuracy does not change when new theories are worked out, but rather the scope of application, since the equation (if any) representing the law does not change. As with other scientific knowledge, they do not have absolute certainty (as mathematical theorems or identities do), and it is always possible for a law to be overturned by future observations. A law can usually be formulated as one or several statements or equations, so that it can be used to predict the outcome of an experiment, given the circumstances of the processes taking place.\n\nLaws differ from hypotheses and postulates, which are proposed during the scientific process before and during validation by experiment and observation. Hypotheses and postulates are not laws since they have not been verified to the same degree and may not be sufficiently general, although they may lead to the formulation of laws. A law is a more solidified and formal statement, distilled from repeated experiment. Laws are narrower in scope than scientific theories, which may contain one or several laws. Science distinguishes a law or theory from facts. Calling a law a fact is ambiguous, an overstatement, or an equivocation. Although the nature of a scientific law is a question in philosophy and although scientific laws describe nature mathematically, scientific laws are practical conclusions reached by the scientific method; they are intended to be neither laden with ontological commitments nor statements of logical absolutes.\n\nAccording to the unity of science thesis, \"all\" scientific laws follow fundamentally from physics. Laws which occur in other sciences ultimately follow from physical laws. Often, from mathematically fundamental viewpoints, universal constants emerge from a scientific law.\n\nA scientific law always applies under the same conditions, and implies that there is a causal relationship involving its elements. Factual and well-confirmed statements like \"Mercury is liquid at standard temperature and pressure\" are considered too specific to qualify as scientific laws. A central problem in the philosophy of science, going back to David Hume, is that of distinguishing causal relationships (such as those implied by laws) from principles that arise due to constant conjunction.\n\nLaws differ from scientific theories in that they do not posit a mechanism or explanation of phenomena: they are merely distillations of the results of repeated observation. As such, a law is limited in applicability to circumstances resembling those already observed, and may be found false when extrapolated. Ohm's law only applies to linear networks, Newton's law of universal gravitation only applies in weak gravitational fields, the early laws of aerodynamics such as Bernoulli's principle do not apply in case of compressible flow such as occurs in transonic and supersonic flight, Hooke's law only applies to strain below the elastic limit, etc. These laws remain useful, but only under the conditions where they apply.\n\nMany laws take mathematical forms, and thus can be stated as an equation; for example, the law of conservation of energy can be written as formula_1, where E is the total amount of energy in the universe. Similarly, the first law of thermodynamics can be written as formula_2.\n\nThe term \"scientific law\" is traditionally associated with the natural sciences, though the social sciences also contain laws. An example of a scientific law in social sciences is Zipf's law.\n\nLike theories and hypotheses, laws make predictions (specifically, they predict that new observations will conform to the law), and can be falsified if they are found in contradiction with new data.\n\nMost significant laws in science are conservation laws. These fundamental laws follow from homogeneity of space, time and phase, in other words \"symmetry\".\n\n\nConservation laws can be expressed using the general continuity equation (for a conserved quantity) can be written in differential form as:\n\nwhere ρ is some quantity per unit volume, J is the flux of that quantity (change in quantity per unit time per unit area). Intuitively, the divergence (denoted ∇•) of a vector field is a measure of flux diverging radially outwards from a point, so the negative is the amount piling up at a point, hence the rate of change of density in a region of space must be the amount of flux leaving or collecting in some region (see main article for details). In the table below, the fluxes, flows for various physical quantities in transport, and their associated continuity equations, are collected for comparison.\n\nMore general equations are the convection–diffusion equation and Boltzmann transport equation, which have their roots in the continuity equation.\n\nAll of classical mechanics, including Newton's laws, Lagrange's equations, Hamilton's equations, etc., can be derived from this very simple principle:\n\nwhere formula_5 is the action; the integral of the Lagrangian\n\nof the physical system between two times \"t\" and \"t\". The kinetic energy of the system is \"T\" (a function of the rate of change of the configuration of the system), and potential energy is \"V\" (a function of the configuration and its rate of change). The configuration of a system which has \"N\" degrees of freedom is defined by generalized coordinates q = (\"q\", \"q\", ... \"q\").\n\nThere are generalized momenta conjugate to these coordinates, p = (\"p\", \"p\", ..., \"p\"), where:\n\nThe action and Lagrangian both contain the dynamics of the system for all times. The term \"path\" simply refers to a curve traced out by the system in terms of the generalized coordinates in the configuration space, i.e. the curve q(\"t\"), parameterized by time (see also parametric equation for this concept).\n\nThe action is a \"functional\" rather than a \"function\", since it depends on the Lagrangian, and the Lagrangian depends on the path q(\"t\"), so the action depends on the \"entire\" \"shape\" of the path for all times (in the time interval from \"t\" to \"t\"). Between two instants of time, there are infinitely many paths, but one for which the action is stationary (to the first order) is the true path. The stationary value for the \"entire continuum\" of Lagrangian values corresponding to some path, \"not just one value\" of the Lagrangian, is required (in other words it is \"not\" as simple as \"differentiating a function and setting it to zero, then solving the equations to find the points of maxima and minima etc\", rather this idea is applied to the entire \"shape\" of the function, see calculus of variations for more details on this procedure).\n\nNotice \"L\" is \"not\" the total energy \"E\" of the system due to the difference, rather than the sum:\n\nThe following general approaches to classical mechanics are summarized below in the order of establishment. They are equivalent formulations, Newton's is very commonly used due to simplicity, but Hamilton's and Lagrange's equations are more general, and their range can extend into other branches of physics with suitable modifications.\n\nFrom the above, any equation of motion in classical mechanics can be derived.\n\n\n\n\nEquations describing fluid flow in various situations can be derived, using the above classical equations of motion and often conservation of mass, energy and momentum. Some elementary examples follow.\n\n\n\nPostulates of special relativity are not \"laws\" in themselves, but assumptions of their nature in terms of \"relative motion\".\n\nOften two are stated as \"the laws of physics are the same in all inertial frames\" and \"the speed of light is constant\". However the second is redundant, since the speed of light is predicted by Maxwell's equations. Essentially there is only one.\n\nThe said posulate leads to the Lorentz transformations – the transformation law between two frame of references moving relative to each other. For any 4-vector\n\nthis replaces the Galilean transformation law from classical mechanics. The Lorentz transformations reduce to the Galilean transformations for low velocities much less than the speed of light \"c\".\n\nThe magnitudes of 4-vectors are invariants - \"not\" \"conserved\", but the same for all inertial frames (i.e. every observer in an inertial frame will agree on the same value), in particular if \"A\" is the four-momentum, the magnitude can derive the famous invariant equation for mass-energy and momentum conservation (see invariant mass):\n\nin which the (more famous) mass-energy equivalence \"E\" = \"mc\" is a special case.\n\n\nGeneral relativity is governed by the Einstein field equations, which describe the curvature of space-time due to mass-energy equivalent to the gravitational field. Solving the equation for the geometry of space warped due to the mass distribution gives the metric tensor. Using the geodesic equation, the motion of masses falling along the geodesics can be calculated.\n\n\nIn a relatively flat spacetime due to weak gravitational fields, gravitational analogues of Maxwell's equations can be found; the GEM equations, to describe an analogous \"gravitomagnetic field\". They are well established by the theory, and experimental tests form ongoing research.\n\nThese equations can be modified to include magnetic monopoles, and are consistent with our observations of monopoles either existing or not existing; if they do not exist, the generalized equations reduce to the ones above, if they do, the equations become fully symmetric in electric and magnetic charges and currents. Indeed, there is a duality transformation where electric and magnetic charges can be \"rotated into one another\", and still satisfy Maxwell's equations.\n\n\nThese laws were found before the formulation of Maxwell's equations. They are not fundamental, since they can be derived from Maxwell's Equations. Coulomb's Law can be found from Gauss' Law (electrostatic form) and the Biot–Savart Law can be deduced from Ampere's Law (magnetostatic form). Lenz' Law and Faraday's Law can be incorporated into the Maxwell-Faraday equation. Nonetheless they are still very effective for simple calculations.\n\n\n\n\nClassically, optics is based on a variational principle: light travels from one point in space to another in the shortest time.\n\n\nIn geometric optics laws are based on approximations in Euclidean geometry (such as the paraxial approximation).\n\n\nIn physical optics, laws are based on physical properties of materials.\n\n\nIn actuality, optical properties of matter are significantly more complex and require quantum mechanics.\n\nQuantum mechanics has its roots in postulates. This leads to results which are not usually called \"laws\", but hold the same status, in that all of quantum mechanics follows from them.\n\nOne postulate that a particle (or a system of many particles) is described by a wavefunction, and this satisfies a quantum wave equation: namely the Schrödinger equation (which can be written as a non-relativistic wave equation, or a relativistic wave equation). Solving this wave equation predicts the time-evolution of the system's behaviour, analogous to solving Newton's laws in classical mechanics.\n\nOther postulates change the idea of physical observables; using quantum operators; some measurements can't be made at the same instant of time (Uncertainty principles), particles are fundamentally indistinguishable. Another postulate; the wavefunction collapse postulate, counters the usual idea of a measurement in science.\n\nApplying electromagnetism, thermodynamics, and quantum mechanics, to atoms and molecules, some laws of electromagnetic radiation and light are as follows.\n\n\nChemical laws are those laws of nature relevant to chemistry. Historically, observations led to many empirical laws, though now it is known that chemistry has its foundations in quantum mechanics.\n\n\nThe most fundamental concept in chemistry is the law of conservation of mass, which states that there is no detectable change in the quantity of matter during an ordinary chemical reaction. Modern physics shows that it is actually energy that is conserved, and that energy and mass are related; a concept which becomes important in nuclear chemistry. Conservation of energy leads to the important concepts of equilibrium, thermodynamics, and kinetics.\n\nAdditional laws of chemistry elaborate on the law of conservation of mass. Joseph Proust's law of definite composition says that pure chemicals are composed of elements in a definite formulation; we now know that the structural arrangement of these elements is also important.\n\nDalton's law of multiple proportions says that these chemicals will present themselves in proportions that are small whole numbers (i.e. 1:2 for Oxygen:Hydrogen ratio in water); although in many systems (notably biomacromolecules and minerals) the ratios tend to require large numbers, and are frequently represented as a fraction.\n\nMore modern laws of chemistry define the relationship between energy and its transformations.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13279065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13279065", "title": "Situation semantics", "text": "Situation semantics\n\nSituation semantics, pioneered by Jon Barwise and John Perry in the early 1980s, attempts to provide a solid theoretical foundation for reasoning about common-sense and real world situations, typically in the context of theoretical linguistics, philosophy, or applied natural language processing,\n\nSituations, unlike worlds, are not complete in the sense that every proposition or its negation holds in a world. According to \"Situations and Attitudes\", meaning is a relation between a discourse situation, a connective situation and a described situation. The original theory of \"Situations and Attitudes\" soon ran into foundational difficulties. A reformulation based on Peter Aczel's non-well-founded set theory was proposed by Barwise before this approach to the subject petered out in the early 1990s.\n\nSituation semantics is the first semantic theory that was used in head-driven phrase structure grammar (HPSG).\n\nBarwise and Perry's system was a top-down approach which foundered on practical issues which were early identified by Angelika Kratzer and others. She subsequently developed a considerable body of theory bottom-up by addressing a variety of issues in the areas of context dependency in discourse and the syntax-semantics interface. Because of its practical nature and ongoing development this body of work \"with possible situations as parts of possible\nworlds, now has much more influence than Barwise and Perry’s ideas\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40447133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40447133", "title": "Somatics", "text": "Somatics\n\nSomatics is a field within bodywork and movement studies which emphasizes internal physical perception and experience. The term is used in movement therapy to signify approaches based on the soma, or \"the body as perceived from within,\" including Alexander technique, the Feldenkrais Method, and Rolfing. In dance, the term refers to techniques based on the dancer's internal sensation, in contrast with \"performative techniques,\" such as ballet or modern dance, which emphasize the external observation of movement by an audience. Somatic techniques may be used in bodywork, psychotherapy, dance, or spiritual practices.\n\nThe earliest forerunners of modern somatics were traditional Asian movement practices, such as yoga. Somatic movement in Western culture can be traced to the turn of the twentieth century. At that time, the increased popularity of phenomenology and existentialism in philosophy led philosophers such as John Dewey and Rudolf Steiner to advocate experiential learning. Meanwhile, choreographers such as Isadora Duncan, Rudolf von Laban, and Margaret H'Doubler challenged traditional European conceptions of dance, introducing newly expressive and open-ended movement paradigms. Together, these movements set the stage for the first generation of \"somatic pioneers\".\n\nEarly somatic techniques were developed in Germany in the late nineteenth century by Elsa Gindler and Heinrich Jacoby Gimmler. Building on their work, the \"somatic pioneers\" Frederick Matthias Alexander, Moshe Feldenkrais, Mabel Elsworth Todd, Gerda Alexander, Ida Rolf, Milton Trager, Irmgard Bartenieff, and Charlotte Selver were active, primarily in Europe, throughout the early twentieth century. Primarily motivated by injuries of their own, they introduced a variety of techniques intended to help recover from and prevent injury, and to enhance physical awareness.\n\nThroughout the twentieth century, the first generation's practices were codified and passed on by their students, some of whom, including Anna Halprin, Elaine Summers, Bonnie Bainbridge-Cohen, and Lulu Sweigard, went on to establish their own influential schools or styles. In the 1970s, American philosopher and movement therapist Thomas Hanna introduced the term \"somatics\" to describe these related practices collectively.\n\nTowards the end of the century, a trend of \"cross-fertilization\" emerged, with practitioners combining different \"lineages\" to form idiosyncratic styles. In recent decades, the field of somatics has grown to include dance forms like contact improvisation and Skinner Releasing Technique, and has been used in occupational therapy, clinical psychology, and education.\n\nMany traditional Asian movement disciplines influenced the Western somatic practices that emerged in the twentieth century. The oldest and most widely practiced somatic discipline is yoga, but many others exist.\n\nYoga is a group of physical, mental, and spiritual practices which originated in modern-day India before 500 BCE. The ultimate goals of yoga are spiritual, and yoga practice generally involves physically assuming and moving through codified asanas or body positions. Yoga physiology describes a system of interconnected bodies, having different but interrelated physical and spiritual properties. The concept of energy flow through corporal channels reappears in other somatic forms, including contact improvisation and Qigong.\n\nQigong and tai chi are traditional Chinese movement practices that can serve to support somatic practice. They typically involve moving meditation, coordinating slow flowing movement, deep rhythmic breathing, and calm meditative state of mind. They claim to balance and cultivate qi, translated as \"life energy\". \nAikido is a Japanese martial art that includes internal awareness and an emotional state of non-aggression; some styles emphasize this with separate \"ki development\" training.\n\nThe Pilates method was originally developed as a somatic form of physical fitness conditioning in the early 1920s. However, most contemporary forms of Pilates focus on correct physical technique more than proprioceptive awareness. The method's founder, Joseph Pilates, emphasized the somatic principles of mind-body connection, tracking of proprioceptive observations, and attention to breath.\n\nAll forms of dance demand the dancer's close attention to proprioceptive information about the position and motion of each part of the body, but \"somatic movement\" in dance refers more specifically to techniques whose primary focus is the dancer's personal, physical experience, rather than the audience's visual one. Somatics has been incorporated into dance communities around the world, with variations from country to country due to the history of the field's local introduction as well as broader cultural differences.\n\nSeveral dance techniques are considered somatic forms. Contact improvisation is a somatic genre developed by Steve Paxton and others in the 1970s, which consists of two or more dancers responding organically to the physical sensations generated by their mutual contact. Contact improvisation can be performed for an audience, but is not designed to have any particular visual impact.\n\nRuth Zaporah's Action Theater, developed in the 1970s and 1980s, is an improvisational performance technique based on \"'embodied presence', a state of awareness in which performers maintain conscious contact with their somatic experience,\" according to dance scholar Susanna Morrow.\n\nSome dance educators use somatic principles and training, especially Laban Movement Analysis, Ideokinesis, Alexander, and Feldenkrais, in performative technique classes. These practices are used to train dancers' proprioceptive skills and to adjust alignment, and are claimed to reduce the risk of injury.\n\nSomatic teaching practices are those which build students' awareness of their external environments and internal sensations while dancing. These practices may include making corrections with touch, in addition to verbal instructions; focusing on energy and process, instead of the physical shapes they produce; and deliberately relaxing habitually-overused muscles. Warwick Long claims that using somatics in dance training, by strengthening dancers' knowledge of the \"soma\", makes their technique more \"intrinsic, internal and personalised.\" He claims the direct self-knowledge somatics offers is valuable for today's professional dancers, who are increasingly asked to work outside the structures of canonically codified techniques such as ballet or Graham technique.\n\nSeveral forms of alternative medicine consider sensory experience of the body important.\n\nThe Alexander technique, an early example of such a practice, was developed by Frederick Matthias Alexander, an actor, in the 1890s. It is an educational somatic technique intended to undo students' habits of using unnecessary tension in movement.\n\nThe Feldenkrais Method is a somatic movement pedagogy developed by Moshé Feldenkrais, inspired in part by the Alexander Technique. It claims to improve well-being by bringing attention to movement patterns which proponents claim are inefficient or unnecessarily tense and replacing them with other patterns.\n\nStructural Integration, including Rolfing and Hellerwork, uses bodywork, mindfulness, and movement retraining as tools for somatic education. Practitioners claim to make both the body and mind more adaptable and resilient, by improving \"alignment\" and movement.\n\nTrager uses gentle bodywork and relaxed exercises called Mentastics to explore sensation and effortlessness in movement. Practitioners enter a meditative state and attempt to physically communicate a sense of lightness, curiosity, and playfulness via the practitioner's contact. Mentastics is an exploration of body weight in gravity. \nSome alternative medicine practitioners who work with mental health have a somatic focus. For example, in somatic experiencing, clients learn to monitor internal sensations.\n\nSpiritual discourse within the field of somatics tends to reject monotheistic systems which locate spiritual authority in an external hierarchy, instead sacralizing the direct perception of an internal \"life force\". Although not strongly aligned with any particular spiritual tradition, somatics literature generally views Christianity and other monotheistic religions unfavorably and favors an eclectic mix of non-Western approaches to the sacred, including those of Buddhism, Taoism, Hinduism, and various kinds of Shamanism.\n\nSome spiritual practices, such as Sufi whirling and Buddhist walking meditation, are particularly associated with somatics. Spirituality is a component of the work of Bonnie Bainbridge Cohen, a leader in contemporary somatics who incorporates elements of Zen Buddhism with modern dance and Laban Movement Analysis.\n\n"}
{"id": "1692779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1692779", "title": "Sophistical Refutations", "text": "Sophistical Refutations\n\nSophistical Refutations (; ) is a text in Aristotle's \"Organon\" in which he identified thirteen fallacies. According to Aristotle, this is the first work to treat the subject of deductive reasoning. (\"Soph. Ref.\", 34, 183b34 ff.). The fallacies Aristotle identifies are the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "3939717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3939717", "title": "Surendranath Dasgupta", "text": "Surendranath Dasgupta\n\nSurendranath Dasgupta () (October 1887 – 18 December 1952) was a scholar of Sanskrit and philosophy.\n\nDasgupta was born in Kushtia, Bengal (now in Bangladesh) in a Vaidya family. His ancestral home was in the village Goila in Barisal District. He studied in Ripon College Calcutta and graduated with honours in Sanskrit. Later, he received his master's degree from Sanskrit College, Calcutta in 1908. He got a second master's degree in Western Philosophy in 1910 from the University of Calcutta.\n\nProf. Dasgupta married Himani Devi, a beautiful lady and the younger sister of India's pioneer film director and founder of Bombay Talkies Himanshu Rai and had six children with her. Dasgupta had three daughters Maitreyi Devi (Sen) (1914-1989), Chitrita Devi (Gupta) and Sumitra Majumdar. Maitreyi Devi and Chitrita Devi (Gupta) were also famous writers. His sons Subhayu Dasgupta, Sugata Dasgupta and Prof. Subhachari Dasgupta also left behind valuable works in nation building.\n\nHis last surviving and youngest child Sumitra Majumdar died in Goa in September 2008.\n\nDasgupta had taken the Griffith Prize in 1916 and his doctorate in Indian Philosophy in 1920. Maharaja Sir Manindra Chandra Nandi now urged him to go to Europe to study European philosophy at its sources, and generously bore all the expenses of his research tour (1920–22).\n\nDasgupta went to England and distinguished himself at Cambridge as a research student in philosophy under Dr. J. M. E. McTaggart. During this time the Cambridge University Press published the first volume of the \"History of Indian Philosophy\" (1921). He was also appointed lecturer at Cambridge, and nominated to represent Cambridge University at the International Congress of Philosophy in Paris.\n\nHis participation in the debates of the Aristotelian Society, London, the leading philosophical society of England, and of the Moral Science Club, Cambridge, earned for him the reputation of being an almost invincible controversialist. Great teachers of philosophy like Ward and McTaggart, under whom he studied, looked upon him not as their pupil but as their colleague. He received his Cambridge doctorate for an elaborate thesis on contemporary European philosophy.\n\nThe impressions that he had made by his speeches and in the debates at the Paris Congress secured for him an invitation to the International Congress at Naples in 1924, where he was sent as a representative of the Bengal Education Department and of the University of Calcutta ; later on, he was sent on deputation by the Government of Bengal to the International Congress at Harvard in 1926.\n\nIn that connection he delivered the Harris Foundation lectures at Chicago, besides a series of lectures at about a dozen other Universities of the United States and at Vienna, where he was presented with an illuminated address and a bronze bust of himself. He was invited in 1925 to the second centenary of the Academy of Science, Leningrad, but he could not attend for lack of Government sanction.\n\nIn 1935, 1936 and 1939 he was invited as visiting professor to Rome, Milan, Breslau, Konigsberg, Berlin, Bonn, Cologne, Zurich, Paris, Warsaw and England.\n\nHis career in teaching began with a short stint as a Lecturer in Rajshahi College. Later, he became a Professor of Sanskrit and Bengali in Chittagong College. After some time, he went back to graduate school and received a PhD from the University of Calcutta, and later went to England to work on his second PhD at the University of Cambridge.\n\nFollowing his return in 1924, Dasgupta joined the Presidency College as Professor of Philosophy. Later, he became the Principal of Sanskrit College, and later joined the University of Calcutta as a Professor.\n\nIn 1932, he served as President of the Indian Philosophical Congress. His own philosophy was known as \"Theory of Dependent Emergence\".\n\nThe list of his famous students includes scholars like Mircea Eliade and Debiprasad Chattopadhyaya.\n\nAbout 1941 or 1942 Dasgupta moved away from his wife Himani Madhuri Dasgupta and their six children, and he stayed with Suramā Mitra (1907 - 12 June 1998), his secretary and student, whom he married in 1945. Suramā Mitra held a PhD in philosophy, taught at Lucknow University, and authored a few books on philosophy. Dasgupta's relationship with Suramā Mitra caused enormous pain to his near ones and was strongly disputed by Dasgupta's family. Whilst Suramā Mitra claimed to be Dasgupta's wife, such claims were unjustifiable and illegal as Surendranath and Himani were never legally divorced and bigamy was a crime in British and Independent India.\n\nThe University of Warsaw made him an honorary Fellow of the Academy of Sciences. He was elected Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature. The Societe des Amis du Monde of Paris offered him a special reception, and M. Renou, Professor of Sanskrit in the University of Paris, wrote to him afterwards: \" While you were amongst us, we felt as if a Sankara or a Patanjali was born again and moved amongst us.\" Kind and simple and gentle as he was, Dasgupta was always undaunted in challenging scholars and philosophers.\n\nIn the second International Congress of Philosophy in Naples, the thesis of Dasgupta's paper was that the philosophy of Benedetto Croce (1866-1952) had been largely anticipated by Dharmakirtti and Dharmottara , and that where Croce differed, he (Croce) was himself in error. On account of internal differences Croce had no mind to join the Congress, but the fact that Dasgupta was going to challenge his philosophy and prove it to be second-hand in open congress, induced him to do so.\n\nIn the same way he challenged Louis de La Vallée-Poussin, the great Buddhist scholar, before a little assembly presided over by J. M. E. McTaggart. In the meetings of the Aristotelian Society Dasgupta was a terror to his opponents, his method of approach being always to point out their\nerrors. He inflicted this treatment on many other scholars, particularly Fyodor Shcherbatskoy (Stcherbatsky) (1866-1942) and Sylvain Lévi (1863-1935).\n\nWhen Lord Ronaldshay, the Governor of Bengal, came to visit Chittagong College, he had a long talk with Professor Dasgupta in his classroom, and was so much impressed by it that he expressed the desire that the first volume of the History of Indian Philosophy might be dedicated to him.\n\nOriginally Dasgupta's plan was to write out the history of Indian systems of thought in one volume. Therefore, he tried to condense the materials available within the compass of one book. But as he went on collecting materials from all parts of India, a huge mass of published and unpublished texts came to light, and the plan of the work enlarged more and more as he tried to utilise them.\n\nThis was the first and only attempt to write out in a systematic manner a history of Indian thought directly from the original sources in Sanskrit, Pali and Prakrit. In a work of the fourteenth century A.D., the Sarva-darsana-samgraha of Madhavacarya, we find a minor attempt to give a survey of the different philosophical schools of India.\n\nBut the account given there is very brief, and the work does not give an exhaustive survey of all the different systems of philosophy. In the present series the author traced, in a historical and critical manner, the development of Indian thought in its different branches from various sources, a considerable portion of which lies in unpublished manuscripts. He spared no pains and underwent a tremendous amount of drudgery in order to unearth the sacred, buried treasures of Indian thought.\n\nHe revised his original plan of writing only one volume and thought of completing the task in five consecutive volumes constituting a series. He shouldered this gigantic task\nall alone, with the sincerest devotion and unparalleled enthusiasm and zeal.\n\nIn 1942 he retired from Sanskrit College and was appointed King George V Professor of Mental and Moral Science in the University of Calcutta. He worked there for three years and delivered the Stephanos Nirmalendu lectures on the history of religions. He had been suffering from heart trouble since 1940, but was still carrying on his various activities and research work.\n\nIn 1945 he retired from the Calcutta University and was offered the Professorship of Sanskrit at Edinburgh which had fallen vacant after the death of Professor Keith. The doctors also advised a trip to England. On his arrival in England he fell ill again.\n\nIn November 1945 he delivered his last public lecture on Hinduism in Trinity College, Cambridge. Since then he was confined to bed with acute heart trouble. He stayed in England for five years (1945–50). Even then he published the fourth volume of his History of Indian\nPhilosophy at the Cambridge University Press, the History of Sanskrit Literature at Calcutta University, Rabindranath the Poet and Philosopher with his Calcutta publishers, and a book on aesthetics in Bengali. In 1950 he returned to Lucknow.\n\nIn 1951, through friendly help given by Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, he started writing the fifth and final volume of the Historyof Indian Philosophy. He had also planned to write out his own system of philosophy in two volumes. His friends and students requested him several times to complete the writing of his own first. Yet he looked upon his work on Indian philosophy as the sacred mission of his life, and thought himself to be committed to that purpose.\n\nWith strong determination and unwavering devotion he brought his life's mission very near its completion.\n\nUntil the end of his life he was working for this, and completed one full section just a few hours before his passing away, on 18 December 1952. Even on this last day of his life, he worked in the morning and afternoon on the last chapter of the section of Southern Saivism.\n\nHe died peacefully at eight in the evening while discussing problems\nof modern psychology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21446931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21446931", "title": "Sébastien Basson", "text": "Sébastien Basson\n\nSébastien Basson, Latinized as Sebastianus Basso, was a French physician and natural philosopher of the beginning of the seventeenth century. He was an early theorist of a matter theory based on both atoms and compounds. His natural philosophy draws on several currents of thought, including Italian Renaissance naturalism, alchemy and Calvinist theology. Basson was an atomist, who, independently from Isaac Beeckman, formed the concept of \"molecule\".\n\nBasson was born in the area of Metz in Lorraine around 1573 and studied at the Jesuit academy of Pont-à-Mousson, where he took philosophy courses under Pierre Sinson. Where he obtained his doctorate in medicine is unknown and we have no sign of medical activity during his life. At some stage, but before 1610, he converted to Calvinism and got married in Lausanne, Switzerland. From 1611 to 1625, he taught rhetoric at the small Calvinist academy of Die-en-Dauphiné. In 1620, he had to appear before the board of theologians at Geneva in order to defend his anti-Aristotelian treatise, whose printing the censors had stopped. After tensions with the academic senate at Die had been rising for some years, he left the town in anger in 1625. Where he went and when he died is unknown.\n\nBasson's \"Philosophiae naturalis adversus Aristotelem libri XII\" (\"Twelve books of natural philosophy against Aristoteles\") of 1621, was strongly against the conception of natural philosophy as based on Aristotle; it attacked in particular the concept of continuous magnitude. Ivor Leclerc considers this work the fullest expression of the “new conception of nature” that had arisen in Europe by the 1620s, at the hands of Francis Bacon, Galileo Galilei, David van Goorle, and Daniel Sennert.\n\nFor Basson, atoms may combine as \"mixta\", but they are not in a void, but rather in an ether. They are moved by it; in this suggestion Basson contradicts the teleology of the Jesuit view of causation. The theory of his time on the classical elements tended towards a version with five principles, but Basson rejected earth and water in his book, leaving his elemental theory as three Paracelsian principles. He opposed, though, the theory of \"compounds\", as admitted by Sennert, in the sense of mixtures having properties that were not properties of their atomistic constituents.\n\nSome contemporaries—both adversaries and sympathizers—have set up lists of the proponents of new ideas during the early seventeenth century. All those \"novateurs\" keenly felt the deficiencies of Aristotelianism and the oppressiveness of tradition. Most of them were young (Galileo is a notable exception) and had a youthful and aggressive voice. There is the place of Basson.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "426996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426996", "title": "Theodore Parker", "text": "Theodore Parker\n\nTheodore Parker (August 24, 1810 – May 10, 1860) was an American Transcendentalist and reforming minister of the Unitarian church. A reformer and abolitionist, his words and popular quotations would later inspire speeches by Abraham Lincoln and Martin Luther King, Jr.\n\nTheodore Parker was born in Lexington, Massachusetts, the youngest child in a large farming family. His paternal grandfather was John Parker, the leader of the Lexington militia at the Battle of Lexington. Among his colonial Yankee ancestors were Thomas Hastings, who came from the East Anglia region of England to the Massachusetts Bay Colony in 1634, and Deacon Thomas Parker, who came from England in 1635 and was one of the founders of Reading.\n\nMost of Theodore's family had died by the time he was 27, probably due to tuberculosis. Out of eleven siblings, only five remained: three brothers, including Theodore, and two sisters. His mother, to whom he was emotionally close, died when he was eleven. He responded to these tragedies by refusing to lapse into what he called \"the valley of tears,\" focusing instead on other events and demands, and by affirming \"the immortality of the soul,\" later a benchmark of his theology.\n\nDescriptions of Parker as a teenager recall him as \"raw\" and rough, emotional and poetic, sincere, \"arch,\" \"roguish,\" volatile, witty, and quick. He excelled at academics and gained an early education through country schools and personal study. He studied long and late when farm chores allowed, tutoring himself in math, Latin, and other subjects. At seventeen he began teaching in local schools. He continued tutoring himself and private students in advanced and specialized subjects. He learned Hebrew from Joshua Seixas (son of Gershom Mendes Seixas and Hannah Manuel), whom he may have baptized in a covert conversion to Christianity. He also studied for a time under Convers Francis, who later preached at Parker's ordination.\n\nIn 1830, at age 19, Parker walked the ten miles from Lexington to Cambridge to apply to Harvard College. He was accepted but could not pay the tuition, so he lived and studied at home, continued to work on his father's farm, and joined his classmates only for exams. Under that program, he was able to complete three years of study in one. He then took various posts as a teacher, conducting an academy from 1831 to 1834 at Watertown, Massachusetts, where his late mother's family lived. At Watertown, he met his future wife, Lydia Dodge Cabot. He announced their engagement to his father in October, 1833. Theodore and Lydia were married four years later on April 20, 1837.\n\nWhile at Watertown, Parker produced his first significant manuscript, \"The History of the Jews\", which outlined his skepticism of biblical miracles and an otherwise liberal approach to Bible. These were to be themes throughout his career.\nParker considered a career in law, but his strong faith led him to theology. He entered the Harvard Divinity School in 1834. He specialized in the study of German theology and was drawn to the ideas of Coleridge, Carlyle and Emerson. He wrote and spoke (with varying degrees of fluency) Latin, Greek, Hebrew, and German. His journal and letters show that he was acquainted with many other languages, including Chaldee, Syriac, Arabic, Coptic and Ethiopic. He completed the divinity school program quickly, in 1836, in order to marry and begin preaching without delay.\n\nParker called the late 1830s a \"period of…disappointment.\" Citing \"home; children; & a good professional sphere,\" he wrote in his journal that \"All fail me, & all equally.\" Increasing controversies in his career culminated in a break with orthodoxy in the early 1840s. The fallout from these events affected him deeply, and it took him a few years to land on his feet and move forward.\n\nParker and Lydia Cabot married in 1837, but the union was rocky at first due to environmental stresses and incompatibilities, and both were saddened to have no children. In 1840 he sought emotional release in the company of a neighboring woman, Anna Blake Shaw, who had a similar theology and temperament to his own, but the friendship was by all accounts not sexual. This attachment naturally increased problems at home, where he may have found it difficult to meet the emotional needs of his wife.\n\nParker had spent 1836 visiting pulpits in the Boston area (G 80), but for family reasons accepted a pastorate at West Roxbury in 1837. At first, he found the location less than stimulating and work constraining. He adapted to pastoral life, however, and preached in many pulpits around Boston as a visitor. He gained a wide reputation as an earnest, effective speaker. In 1840 Harvard awarded him an honorary master's degree on the basis of his extensive learning.\n\nParker delivered one especially popular sermon twenty-five times between 1838 and 1841. In it, he argued against the popular notion that religion could be reduced to morality. \"The principle of morality is obedience to the Law of con[science],\" he wrote, while religion required more: that we \"feel naturally, allegiance to a superior Being: dependence on him & accountability to him.\" (The theme of dependence echoes Schleiermacher, an indication of the German influence on his theology.) Morality involves right acting, while religion requires love of God and regular prayer, which Parker considered essential to human life. \"No feeling is more deeply planted in human nature than the tendency to adore a superior being,\" he preached, \"to reverence him, to bow before him, to feel his presence, to pray to him for aid in times of need\" and \"to bless him when the heart is full of joy.\"\n\nIn 1837, Parker had begun attending meetings of the group later known as the Transcendental Club. Ralph Waldo Emerson's Divinity School Address that year had been deeply arresting to him, and he welcomed the opportunity to associate with Emerson, Amos Bronson Alcott, Orestes Brownson, and several others. Transcendentalists such as Henry David Thoreau and Parker wrote of the world as divine, and of themselves as part of this divinity. Unlike Emerson and other Transcendentalists, however, Parker believed the movement was rooted in deeply religious ideas and did not believe it should retreat from religion. All shared a conviction that slavery should be abolished and social reforms should take root.\n\nParker gradually introduced Transcendentalist ideas into his sermons. He tempered his radicalism with diplomacy and discretion, however. \"I preach abundant heresies,\" he wrote to a friend, \"and they all go down—for the listeners do not know how heretical they are.\" For years he had wrestled with the factuality of the Hebrew Scriptures, and by 1837 he was wishing \"some wise man would now write a book…and show up the absurdity of…the Old Testament miracles, prophecies, dreams, miraculous births, etc.'\" He was hardly alone. \"'What shall we do with the Old Testament?' asked James Walker in 1838. 'That question is of such frequent recurrence among laymen as well as clergymen, that any well-considered attempt to answer it, or supply the means of answering it, is almost sure of hearty welcome.\" Questions regarding biblical realism and meaning, and the answers clergy increasingly found through the German-based higher criticism, formed the basis of liberal Christianity as it emerged and developed throughout the nineteenth century.\n\nIn 1838 Parker published his first major article, a critical review of an orthodox work written by his former professor John Gorham Palfrey. In it Parker broke for the first time with supernatural realism, as he also increasingly did in his sermons. To him, Christianity was natural rather than miraculous. More and more, he praised social reform movements such as those for temperance, peace, and the abolition of slavery. In 1840 he described such movements as divinely inspired, though he added that they did not fully address the spiritual and intellectual ills of society. Controversy mounted regarding these and other Transcendentalist elements in his work. So did criticism, which often saddened and distressed him.\n\nIn 1841, Parker laid bare his radical theological position in a sermon titled \"A Discourse on the Transient and Permanent in Christianity\", in which he espoused his belief that the traditions of historic Christianity did not reflect the truth. In so doing, he made an open break with orthodox theology. He instead argued for a type of Christian belief and worship in which the essence of Jesus's teachings remained permanent but the words, traditions, and other forms of their conveyance did not. He stressed the immediacy of God and saw the Church as a communion, looking upon Christ as the supreme expression of God. Ultimately, he rejected all miracles and revelation and saw the Bible as full of contradictions and mistakes. He retained his faith in God but suggested that people experience God intuitively and personally, and that they should center their religious beliefs on individual experience.\n\nParker's West Roxbury church remained loyal. Sermons and media attacked him, however, when he denied Biblical miracles and the literal authority of the Bible and Jesus. Many questioned his Christianity. Nearly all the pulpits in the Boston area were closed to him, and he lost friends. Parker reacted with grief and defiance. He remained unwilling to concede that his views placed him beyond the outer bounds of Unitarian liberalism. After this unwilling break with the Unitarian establishment, he spent two years (1841-1843) adjusting to the reality of his newly controversial and independent career and increasing his social activism on religious grounds. He began to see himself as a prophetic religious reformer.\n\nParker accepted an invitation from supporters to preach in Boston in January 1845. He preached his first sermon there in February. His supporters organized the 28th Congregational Society of Boston in December and installed Parker as minister in January 1846. His congregation, which included Louisa May Alcott, William Lloyd Garrison, Julia Ward Howe, and Elizabeth Cady Stanton, grew to 7000.\n\nParker's family life, temperament, and work steadied during the 1840s. The second half of his career revolved around antislavery, democracy, and religious social activism.\n\nIn 1843 and 1844, Theodore and Lydia traveled in Europe. While there his theology, career, and personal life matured and steadied. He was no longer as sensitive to criticism and bore difficulties more easily. Away from extended family problems in West Roxbury, his marriage seems to have improved and become more steadily affectionate. Despite complex issues that occasionally resurfaced, he and Lydia were happier. \"My wife is kind as an angel,\" he would write in his journal during denominational trials in 1845. His travels also seemed to stimulate a growing interest in political and social issues.\n\nReturning to the United States, Parker found Unitarianism on the cusp of a division over his right to fellowship as a minister. His controversial 1841 sermon had created a stir that ballooned into an allout storm in 1844. The debate over the nature and degree of Parker's \"infidelity\" caused Unitarians to adopt a liberal creed, which they had formerly declined to do based on an inclusive principle. Their position proved too orthodox to include Parker.\n\nIn January, 1845, a sizeable group of supporters gathered at Marlboro Chapel in Boston and resolved to provide Parker \"a chance to be heard in Boston.\" Calling themselves \"Friends of Theodore Parker,\" they hired a hall and invited him to preach there on Sunday mornings. Despite misgivings, Parker accepted and preached his first sermon at the Melodean Theater in February. Although the arrangement was temporary at first, he resigned his West Roxbury pastorate in early 1846 (to the dismay of his faithful parishioners there). He elected to call his new congregation the 28th Congregational Society of Boston.\n\nParker's congregation grew to 2,000—then three percent of Boston's population—and included influential figures such as Louisa May Alcott, William Lloyd Garrison, Julia Ward Howe (a personal friend), and Elizabeth Cady Stanton. Stanton called his sermons \"soul-satisfying\" when beginning her career, and she credited him with introducing her to the idea of a Heavenly Mother in the Trinity. Parker was increasingly known for preaching what he and his followers identified as a type of prophetic Christian social activism.\n\nAfter 1846, Parker shifted from a focus on Transcendentalism and challenging the bounds of Unitarian theology to a focus on the gathering national divisions over slavery and the challenges of democracy. In Boston, he led the movement to combat the stricter Fugitive Slave Act, a controversial part of the Compromise of 1850. This act required law enforcement and citizens of all states—free states as well as slave states—to assist in recovering fugitive slaves. Parker called the law \"a hateful statute of kidnappers\" and helped organize open resistance to it. He and his followers formed the Boston Vigilance Committee, which refused to assist with the recovery of fugitive slaves and helped hide them. For example, they smuggled away Ellen and William Craft when Georgian slave catchers came to Boston to arrest them. Due to such efforts, from 1850 to the onset of the American Civil War in 1861, only twice were slaves captured in Boston and transported back to the South. On both occasions, Bostonians combatted the actions with mass protests.\n\nAs Parker's early biographer John White Chadwick wrote, Parker was involved with almost all of the reform movements of the time: \"peace, temperance, education, the condition of women, penal legislation, prison discipline, the moral and mental destitution of the rich, the physical destitution of the poor\" though none became \"a dominant factor in his experience\" with the exception of his antislavery views. He \"denounced the Mexican War and called on his fellow Bostonians in 1847 'to protest against this most infamous war,'\" while at the same time promoting economic expansionism and exposing racist view of Mexicans' inherent inferiority, calling them \"a wretched people; wretched in their origin,\nhistory, and character\".\n\nYet his abolitionism became his most controversial stance. He wrote the scathing \"To a Southern Slaveholder\" in 1848, as the abolition crisis was heating up and took a strong stance against slavery and advocated violating the Fugitive Slave Law of 1850, a controversial part of the Compromise of 1850 which required the return of escaped slaves to their owners. Parker worked with many fugitive slaves, some of whom were among his congregation. As in the case of William and Ellen Craft, he hid them in his home. Although he was indicted for his actions, he was never convicted.\n\nAs a member of the Secret Six, he supported the abolitionist John Brown, whom many considered a terrorist. After Brown's arrest, Parker wrote a public letter, \"John Brown's Expedition Reviewed,\" arguing for the right of slaves to kill their masters and defending Brown's actions.\n\nFollowing a lifetime of overwork, Parker's ill health forced his retirement in 1859. He developed tuberculosis, then without effective treatment, and departed for Florence, Italy, where he died on May 10, 1860. He sought refuge in Florence because of his friendship with Elizabeth Barrett and Robert Browning, Isa Blagden and Frances Power Cobbe, but died scarcely a month following his arrival. It was less than a year before the outbreak of the American Civil War.\n\nParker was a patient of William Wesselhoeft, who practiced homeopathy. Wesselhoeft gave the oration at Parker's funeral \nHe is buried in the English Cemetery in Florence. When Frederick Douglass visited Florence, he went first from the railroad station to Parker's tomb.\n\nParker's headstone by Joel Tanner Hart was later replaced by one by William Wetmore Story. Other Unitarians buried in the English Cemetery include Thomas Southwood Smith and Richard Hildreth. The British writer Fanny Trollope, also buried here, wrote the first anti-slavery novel and Hildreth wrote the second. Both books were used by Harriet Beecher Stowe for her antislavery novel \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\" (1852).\n\n\nI do not pretend to understand the moral universe; the arc is a long one, my eye reaches but little ways; I cannot calculate the curve and complete the figure by the experience of sight; I can divine it by conscience. And from what I see I am sure it bends towards justice.\n\n\nThe domestic function of the woman does not exhaust her powers... To make one half of the human race consume its energies in the functions of housekeeper, wife and mother is a monstrous waste of the most precious material God ever made(1853). \n\nEight months after the publication of Friedan's book, Kurt Vonnegut uses the same quote in his short story \"Lovers Anonymous,\" first published in the October issue of \"Redbook\" magazine and reprinted in Vonnegut's 1999 collection \"Bagombo Snuff Box.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1793212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1793212", "title": "William of Auxerre", "text": "William of Auxerre\n\nWilliam of Auxerre (died 1231) was a French scholastic theologian and official in the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nThe teacher by whom William was most influenced was Praepositinus, or Prevostin, of Cremona, Chancellor of the University of Paris from 1206 to 1209. The names of teacher and pupil are mentioned in the same sentence by Thomas Aquinas. \n\nHe was an Archdeacon of Beauvais before becoming a professor of theology at the university in Paris. In 1231, he was made a member of the commission appointed by Gregory IX to examine Aristotle's writings on the natural sciences and to offer amendments where religiously necessary. Consequently, William was one of the first theologians to be influenced by Aristotle. His \"Summa Aurea\" shows a debt still to Peter Lombard, and it advances the ontological argument, but it also shows novelty and an intellectual awareness and insistence on the physical that had not been seen earlier. \"Summa Aurea\" influenced John of Treviso.\n\n\n"}
