{"id": "3917650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3917650", "title": "Academy Earth", "text": "Academy Earth\n\nAcademy Earth is an American quarterly magazine for young readers. It is an omnibus of both mainstream school subjects and uncommon subjects. It is designed to expose adolescents to as many forms of intellect, providing them a solid base of knowledge for further learning, and to present it in such a way that a child is not offended by its overly-scholarly nature.\n\nTaking directly from Piaget's model of cognitive development, which brings to light the underestimated logical ability of a child, and the Montessori method, which understands that children are simply not \"small adults\" but humans that have their own way of learning and understanding, the Renaissance Method presents introductions to all subjects, but allows the adolescent to choose his favorite, or the one he is most comfortable in. Through this liberty, a child may pick up on the fundamental subjects subconsciously, without having to be drilled.\n\nFor example, instead of teaching an adolescent directly about multiplicative inverses of numbers, one could instead show her the merits of the golden mean and how it is often seen in nature and architecture. After a certain interest be developed, one would explain the mathematical elements behind the golden mean. Or instead of teaching a child the basic elements of a story as the beginning, middle, and end (which can often be ambiguous and confusing, and differ from story to story), one might begin with the simple three-act story structure and, in time, proceed to the four-act story structure.\n\nBorrowing from \"Highlights for Children\" and other children's magazines, \"Academy Earth\" attempts to instill ethics into young readers, not by direct means, but by featuring stories that exhibit moral values. \"Academy Earth\" also tries to instill an interest in culture, featuring historical articles, and tolerance of the world's peoples. The vast curriculum encourages a child to take an interest in many subjects.\n\n"}
{"id": "19912758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19912758", "title": "Afeka College of Engineering", "text": "Afeka College of Engineering\n\nAfeka College of Engineering was established in 1996. It grants Bachelor and Masters of Science degrees in engineering. The college offers 5 undergraduate programs with 17 fields of specialization and 5 graduate programs.\n\nAfeka College combines engineering programs with an emphasis on entrepreneurship and encouragement of students and staff to develop useful solutions of engineering problems.\n\nPrograms at Afeka include electrical and electronic engineering; mechanical engineering; software engineering; industrial engineering and management; medical engineering, systems engineering, energy engineering, and engineering and management of service systems Master of Science programmes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5741441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5741441", "title": "Africa Nazarene University", "text": "Africa Nazarene University\n\nAfrica Nazarene University (ANU) is a private Christian-founded university in, Kenya, and an affiliate of \"The Church of the Nazarene Colleges and Universities\" around the world. ANU is fully accredited by the Commission for University Education and the \"International Board of Education (IBOE)\".\n\nThe main campus is situated in the middle of the Masaai savannah, on , near the town of Ongata Rongai, adjacent to Nairobi National Park, approximately , by road, south of the city center of Nairobi, Kenya's capital and largest city. The geographical coordinates of the university's main campus are:1°24'02.0\"S, 36°47'24.0\"E (Latitude:-1.400556; Longitude:36.790000).\n\nThe university maintains a second campus in the central business district of the city of Nairobi, along Moi Avenue and Tom Mboya Street.\n\nThe university has another campus at:-\n\nANU is a private Christian University and an institution of the Church of the Nazarene International, whose mission and vision follows the Wesleyan Holiness Tradition. It was established to prepare leaders for the Church both at ministerial and laity level. The Church of the Nazarene sought to address the challenges witnessed in African society in the early 1980s through an institution of higher education. In accordance with the Kenya University’s Act of 1985, (provision for establishment of private universities in Kenya), the Church settled on Kenya as a location to start a Nazarene University which became the first one outside North America.\n\nIn July 1993, the Board of the Church granted its authority for the establishment of a university in Africa following a unanimous vote by its members during a General Assembly in Indianapolis, Indiana, USA. The Church, through the university’s founders, continued to pursue negotiations with the Commission of University Education, then Commission of Higher Education (CHE) to establish a degree awarding institution. Therefore, the legal authority to establish the university was given on November 23, 1993, when CHE issued, on behalf of the Kenyan Government, a Letter of Interim Authority for the university to start laying the foundation for the development of ANU.\n\nIn August 1994 Dr. Martha John, ANU’s first Vice Chancellor, opened the university’s doors to 62 students from eleven African countries taking undergraduate courses in Theology and Business Administration and a Masters of Arts in Religion. One year later, the university introduced the Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science, welcoming an additional 42 students.\n\nProfessor Leah Marangu took over from Dr. John in January 1996 and was installed as Vice Chancellor in February 1997. On 8 October 2002, the university was granted the Charter (Accreditation Credentials) by the government of Kenya, making ANU the first private university to receive the credential under the new act and without being affiliated with any other university locally and abroad.\n\nThe university is composed of the following schools:\n\nStarting off with three programs, the university now has 36 programs, offered at nine campuses, as of January 2018.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24595256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24595256", "title": "Association Montessori International of the United States", "text": "Association Montessori International of the United States\n\nThe Association Montessori International/USA (AMI/USA) is a national non-profit organization that strives to propagate and further the teachings and work of Dr. Maria Montessori in the United States. As the United States office for the Association Montessori Internationale, the Association Montessori International/USA oversees recognition of eligible Montessori schools, assists in recruitment and organization of Montessori teacher training, and organizes professional development opportunities in the United States. The organization also maintains a member database of about 45,000 teachers, school administrators, parents, and interested individuals.\n\nThe Association Montessori Internationale is the oldest Montessori organization in the world. Maria Montessori established AMI in 1929, with the headquarters in Amsterdam, the Netherlands. The international head office of AMI is still located in Amsterdam. The organization was founded to maintain the integrity of her life's work and to ensure that it would be perpetuated after her death: \"The AMI was to function not only as organizer of courses and overseer of teacher training, not only as a way of keeping the various worldwide Montessori schools and societies in touch with each other and disseminating information about the movement's ideas and activities, but also as a firm, controlling rights to the publication of Montessori's books and the manufacture and sale of the materials as well as recipient of training-course fees.\"\n\nMario Montessori, Maria’s son and personal assistant, was given the task of safeguarding the Montessori movement after Maria Montessori's death. \"At [Montessori's] death she appointed Mr. Montessori as her successor in the task of directing and coordinating the work of the Association Montessori Internationale... A responsibility laid upon Mr. Montessori's shoulders was the delicate task of safeguarding the integrity of the Montessori movement, in the many countries where it is active, by recognizing under the aegis of the Association Montessori Internationale only such \"Montessori\" schools and training courses as faithfully interpret, both in spirit and practice, the Montessori principles.\"\n\nMario Montessori sent Margaret Elizabeth Stephenson to the United States in 1961. A trainee of Maria Montessori herself Stephenson first operated as Mario Montesori's personal representative in the United States. As the movement grew, Montessori granted her request to set up a branch office of AMI in the United States. AMI/USA was founded in 1972 and directed for its first ten years by Karin Salzmann. In 1988, Virginia McHugh succeeded Jon Osterkorn as Executive Director of AMI/USA.\n\nToday there are thousands of across the United States. However there is no central acredidation nor specific set of standards they must hold to.\n\nDuring the past twenty years the amount of scientific research confirming the Montessori method has increased: \"Maria Montessori, through observation of children, developed materials that engage both the hands and the mind of the child. Science and research, especially in the past twenty years, have come to prove that Montessori's observations accurately describe the learning needs of children and have shown as well that the principles Dr. Montessori envisioned do create joyful learners.\"\n\nThe mission of the Association Montessori International of the United States (AMI/USA), as stated on the organization's website, is to bring the principles of Dr. Maria Montessori to the education of children, to help them attain their full potential in our society. AMI/USA collaborates with affiliates such as the Elementary Alumni Association (EAA) and the North American Montessori Teachers' Association (NAMTA).\n\nSchool Recognition Program\nA certificate of recognition is granted to a subset of Montessori schools who prove that they meet a set of specific Montessori standards as derived from Maria Montessori’s original research and methodology. Schools must apply annually for one of the following levels: recognition, affiliation, and association.\n\nProfessional Development\nAMI/USA facilitates two conferences each year. The annual refresher course and workshops cater to all AMI trained professionals, as well as classroom assistants, administrators, and, beginning in 2009, parents. Additionally, each fall AMI/USA sponsors a public school forum for school districts with AMI Montessori programs.\n\nMembership\nAMI/USA facilitates membership benefits to AMI members living in the United States. Membership to AMI through AMI/USA is offered on an individual basis; schools and institutions are not eligible for AMI membership. Membership benefits include a yearly subscription to AMI and AMI/USA publications, including the quarterly AMI/USA newsletter \"AMI/USA News\" and the bi-annual AMI scholarly journal \"Communications\". Members also receive a preferred rate on AMI/USA publications, and receive a discount from AMI approved Montessori materials distributors.\n\nTeacher Training Program\nAMI/USA works in partnership with AMI Montessori training centers to help ensure the caliber of AMI teacher training is maintained in the United States. \"The standards of Montessori practice were originally delineated by the Association Montessori International (AMI) in 1929. They represent an integrated body of materials, methodology, psychology, and philosophy that provides Montessori teachers with a common reference point.\"\n\nWe Are Montessori\nAMI/USA also coordinates the \"We Are Montessori\" project, which has the objective of \"celebrating Montessori alumni and bringing awareness to the benefits of Montessori education.\" The initiative collects information to showcase alumni they consider as successful, and the schools that fostered their education. To date, AMI/USA it is the only organization systematically collecting information on Montessori alumni in the United States.\n\n\nHershey Montessori Institute at Lake Erie College\nThe Montessori Institute\nThe Montessori Institute Northwest\nMontessori Institute of Atlanta\nThe Montessori Institute of Milwaukee\nThe Montessori Institute of Milwaukee- Kansas City (Satellite)\nThe Montessori Institute of North Texas\nMontessori Institute of San Diego\nMontessori Institute of San Diego- Miami (Satellite)\nMontessori Teacher Training Center of Northern California\nMontessori Training Center of Minnesota\nMontessori Training Center of New England\nMontessori Training Center of St. Louis\nWashington Montessori Institute at Loyola University Maryland\n"}
{"id": "22828781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22828781", "title": "BYU Museum of Paleontology", "text": "BYU Museum of Paleontology\n\nThe Brigham Young University Museum of Paleontology was started in 1976 around the collection of James A. Jensen. For many years, it was known as the \"BYU Earth Science Museum\", and most of the collection was in storage under the LaVell Edwards Stadium.\n\nIn October 2009, the museum held a grand opening of its new facilities during BYU homecoming week. With the addition, it now displays most of the collection. The change of name clarifies that the museum actually houses a large collection of dinosaur bones and other fossils.\n\nThe museum is currently directed by Rodney Scheetz, who was one of Jensen's students at BYU. Its main purpose is to facilitate research, but it is open to the public.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15640595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15640595", "title": "Bachelor of Architectural Studies", "text": "Bachelor of Architectural Studies\n\nThe Bachelor of Architectural Studies is a bachelor's degree for studies in the field of architecture. \n\nIt generally takes three to four years. A Bachelor of Architectural Studies may lead on to a Master of Architecture, or a Bachelor of Architecture. \n\nIn some countries, this degree may allow people to be officially registered as an architect.\n"}
{"id": "1599261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1599261", "title": "Carnival Cruise Lines Tycoon 2005: Island Hopping", "text": "Carnival Cruise Lines Tycoon 2005: Island Hopping\n\nCarnival Cruise Lines Tycoon 2005: Island Hopping is a 2004 cruise-line business simulation game inspired by the cruise line Carnival Cruise Lines and developed by Deck13 under the Artex Software label, and published by Activision Value. The primary objective of the game is to offer cruise line services to customers. The game itself offers what would be expected from a typical tycoon game. Users are in command of the ship and are responsible for the task of purchasing buildings and designing the layout. While gaining popularity, users also have an advantage to buy more ships and have a large fleet of ships going to exotic destinations. The game included Carnival logos and the entertainment and lounges available to add to the ships were named as per Carnival Cruise Lines standards. The ships that can be worked with in the game are: \"Sunshine\" (a fictional cruise ferry only accessible as the first ship in the career mode), \"Carnival Celebration\", \"Carnival Paradise\", \"Carnival Legend\", and the \"Carnival Conquest\".\n\n"}
{"id": "5550520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5550520", "title": "Class of 1984", "text": "Class of 1984\n\nClass of 1984 is a 1982 Canadian-American action crime thriller film directed by Mark Lester and co-written by Tom Holland and John Saxton based on a story by Holland. The film stars Perry King, Merrie Lynn Ross (who also served as co-executive producer), Timothy Van Patten, Stefan Arngrim, Michael J. Fox (credited as Michael Fox in an early role shortly before his breakthrough on the TV series \"Family Ties\"), and Roddy McDowall.\n\nThe film used the punk look and image that was becoming part of popular culture in the early 1980s. The theme song, \"I Am the Future\", was performed by Alice Cooper. The film also features a performance by Canadian punk band Teenage Head.\n\nAndrew Norris is the new music teacher at a troubled inner city school. As he arrives on his first day, he meets fellow teacher Terry Corrigan, who is carrying a gun. When Andrew asks about the firearm, Terry assures him he will learn why the protection is necessary. When they enter the school, Andrew is shocked to see everyone scanned by metal detectors and frisked. He spots a student with a knife, but the security guards let the kid go because they are so overworked.\n\nThe halls of the school are covered with graffiti. Andrew learns he is expected to patrol the halls as a security guard during his off periods. In his first class, a group of five disruptive students are roughhousing and causing trouble. The leader of the gang is Peter Stegman, the only member of the group who is actually registered in that class. They all eventually walk out, and Andrew discovers the rest of the students actually want to learn, especially Arthur, who plays the trumpet, and Deneen, who plays the clarinet.\n\nAs Andrew gets to know the school and the area, he decides that he wants to put together an orchestra with his more advanced students. Peter's gang sells drugs, run a strip club, and cause all kinds of mayhem. They follow Andrew home and taunt him one night.\n\nAt school, Andrew is confronted with more and more evidence of Peter's crimes. The two grow increasingly at odds. Eventually, they wind up in a bathroom alone together. Peter throws himself into a mirror and beats himself, claiming that Andrew attacked him. Trying to clear things up, Andrew visits Peter's mother at home. Frustrated when Peter still plays the victim and his mother will not hear Andrew out, he hotwires Peter's car and drives it into a wall.\n\nAndrew's orchestra is about to give its first concert. As his wife Diane gets ready at home, Peter's gang breaks into the house and gang rapes her. One of them takes a Polaroid of her being raped and has it delivered to Andrew on the podium, just as he is about to start the concert. Horrified by the photo, he runs off the podium in pursuit of Peter's gang. Andrew and the gang chase each other through the school. Andrew kills them off one by one, and finally confronts Peter on the roof. Their last scuffle ends with Peter falling through a skylight and getting tangled in the ropes above the stage. He falls into full view of the audience as his neck is broken by one of the ropes. Andrew is never charged because the police could not find a witness to the crime.\n\nThe film premiered on August 20, 1982 in the United States.\n\nWhen originally released in the United Kingdom, the theatrical version received four minutes and fourteen seconds of cuts from the British Board of Film Classification, and was refused a video certificate four years later. It was finally passed fully uncut in 2005.\n\nUpon original release, the film was banned in several countries due to its lewd content. On Rotten Tomatoes it has a rating of 75% based on 16 reviews.\n\nScream Factory released the film in a Collector's Edition Blu-ray on April 14, 2015.\n\nComedy writer/producer Tom Scharpling has noted that \"Class of 1984\" is one of his favorite films. Scharpling would often reference the film on his weekly call in radio program \"The Best Show on WFMU\".\n\nThe film spawned two sci-fi-themed sequels that were loosely based on the original: \"Class of 1999\" (1990) and the direct-to-video follow-up \"\" (1994), the first of which was also directed by Lester and like its predecessor, was also released via \"Vestron Video\", while the latter was released by Vidmark Entertainment. Lionsgate released Class of 1999 on DVD September 16, 2008. The sequel films have been released on DVD in other territories, such as Korea, Italy and Australia.\n\n"}
{"id": "18864134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18864134", "title": "Class rating", "text": "Class rating\n\nIn aviation, a class rating is an allowance to fly a certain group of aircraft that require training common to all aircraft within the group. A type rating is specified if a particular aircraft requires additional specialized training beyond the scope of initial license and aircraft class training. What aircraft require a type rating is decided by the local aviation authority. Almost all single engine piston (SEP) or multi engine piston (MEP) single pilot aircraft can be flown without a \"type rating\", but are covered by a \"class rating\" instead. \n\nThere are seven categories of aircraft, which may be further subdivided into two or more classes:\n\n"}
{"id": "46995852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46995852", "title": "Darul Huda Islamic School", "text": "Darul Huda Islamic School\n\nDarul Huda Islamic School, Al-Ain is an English Medium School, recognized by the Ministry of Education, U.A.E. The School began historical journey in the year 1988 and run by Al Ain Sunni Youth Centre.It is affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education, Delhi,India.It is also a member of the Council of CBSE affiliated schools in the middle east.As an institution, Darul Huda Islamic School aims at the development of intellectual, moral, spiritual and physical potential of the child. The school stresses the importance of an all round drawing of the best in mind, body and spirit and in turn this process helps to evolve the overall personality of the child . Evolving the overall personality of the child is our basic.We aim at the development of intellectual, moral, spiritual and physical potential of the child. The school stresses the importance of an all round drawing of the best in mind, body and spirit and in turn this process helps to evolve the overall personality of the child. Evolving the overall personality of the child is our prime objective\n\nEducate. Empower. Accomplish\n\n“Each child is bred with an unique set of potentials that yearn to be fulfilled as surely as the acorn yearns to become oak within it”\n\nOur school is affiliated to CBSE, Delhi and follows the curriculum initiated by Central Board of Secondary Education. The objective of the curriculum is to nurture the independence of the learner, given the fact that every learner is unique. The learner has to understand, appreciate, protect and build on values, beliefs and traditional wisdom. The recent scientific and technological advances have thrown open the gateways of knowledge at an astonishing pace. The speed and methods of assimilating knowledge have put forth many challenges to the educators, forcing them to rethink their approaches for knowledge processing by their learners. In this context, it has become imperative for them to incorporate those skills which will enable the young learners to become “life long learners”.\n\nDarul Huda Islamic School (DHIS) is a private school catering to the educational needs of the children of Asian expatriates living in Al-Ain. We hope that, we give value for money. The school fee levy from our parents in the form of tuition fees, book fees, Uniform fee and transport fees are our sources of income that generates school revenue. We take into account the concerns and input received from parents regarding the school fees. Our school fee policy is in line with the school framework of Abu Dhabi Education Council (ADEC).\n\nSchool Library\n\nHealth Clinic\n\nICT Integrates Class Room\n\nLab Facilities\n\nPastoral Care\n\nSchool Transport\n\nPhysical Education\n"}
{"id": "276788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=276788", "title": "Descriptive Video Service", "text": "Descriptive Video Service\n\nThe Descriptive Video Service (DVS) is a major United States producer of video description, which makes visual media, such as television programs, feature films and home videos, more accessible to people who are blind or otherwise visually impaired. \"DVS\" often is used to describe the product itself.\n\nIn 1985, PBS member television station WGBH-TV in Boston, Massachusetts, began investigating uses for the new technology of stereophonic television broadcasting, particularly multichannel television sound (MTS), which allowed for a third audio channel, called the \"Secondary Audio Program\" (\"SAP\"). With a history of developing closed captioning of programs for hearing-impaired viewers, WGBH considered the viability of using the new audio channel for narrated descriptions of key visual elements, much like those being done for live theatre in Washington, D.C., by Margaret Pfanstiehl, who had been experimenting with television description as part of her Washington Ear radio reading service.\n\nAfter reviewing and conducting various studies, which found that blind and visually impaired people were consuming more television than ever but finding the activity problematic (often relying on sighted family and friends to describe for them), WGBH consulted more closely with Pfanstiehl and her husband, Cody, and then conducted its first tests of DVS in Boston in 1986. These tests (broadcasting to local groups of people of various ages and visual impairments) and further study were successful enough to merit a grant from the Corporation for Public Broadcasting to complete plans to establish the DVS organization permanently in 1988. After national testing, more feedback, more development of description technique, and additional grants, DVS became a regular feature of selected PBS programming in 1990. Later, DVS became an available feature in some films and home videos, including DVDs.\n\nDVS describers watch a program and write a script describing visual elements which are important in understanding what is occurring at the time and the plot as a whole. For example, in the opening credit sequence of the children's series \"Arthur\" on PBS, the description has been performed as follows:\n\n\"Arthur is an 8-year-old aardvark. He wears round glasses with thick frames over his big eyes. He has two round ears on top of his oval-shaped head. He wears red sneakers and blue jeans, with a yellow sweater over a white shirt.\"\nThe length of descriptions and their placement by a producer into the program are largely dictated by what can fit in natural pauses in dialogue (other producers of description may have other priorities, such as synchronization with the timing of a described element's appearance, which differ from DVS's priority for detail). Once recorded, placed and mixed with a copy of the original soundtrack, the DVS track is then \"laid back\" to the master tape on a separate audio track (for broadcast on the SAP) or to its own DVS master (for home video). For feature films, the descriptions are not mixed with the soundtrack, but kept separate as part of a DTS soundtrack.\n\nWhen the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) started establishing various requirements for broadcasters in larger markets to improve their accessibility to audiences with hearing and vision impairments, DVS branched out to non-PBS programming, and soon description could be heard on the SAP for shows such as \"\" and \"The Simpsons\". However, a federal court ruled in 2002 that the Federal Communications Commission had exceeded its jurisdiction by requiring broadcasters in the top 25 markets to carry video description.\n\nSince that time, the amount of new DVS television programming in the United States declined, as did access to information regarding upcoming described programming, while broadcasters like ABC and Fox instead decided to devote their SAP channels to Spanish language dubbing tracks of their shows rather than DVS due to the technical limitations of the analog NTSC standard. Description by DVS and other producers was still available in a limited form on television (the greatest percentage of DVS programming is still on PBS). WGBH's Media Access Group continues supporting description of feature films (known as DVS Theatrical) and DVS home videos/DVDs are available from WGBH as well as other vendors and libraries. Commercial caption providers the National Captioning Institute and CaptionMax have also begun to describe programs. Benefit Media, Inc., a subsidiary of DuArt Film and Video in New York City provides DVS services to USA Network. For the 2016 Summer Olympics, NBC is providing description of events during the network's primetime block.\n\nThe 21st Century Communications and Video Accessibility Act of 2010 reinstates the FCC's involvement in providing rules for video description. Under the rules, affiliates in the top 25 markets and the top five-rated cable networks will have to provide at least 50 hours of video described programming per quarter; the rules took effect on July 1, 2012. However, this provision currently does not apply to syndicated programming; notably, many programs which have audio description in their network runs, such as those produced by Twentieth Century Fox Television, remove the DVS track for syndication, substituting in the Spanish dubbing track on SAP to reach more viewers, though as many stations affiliated with \"netlets\" like The CW and MyNetworkTV are not under the video description provision, do not have SAP channels and thus, neither an audio description or Spanish dub track can be heard. In some markets where SAP is activated on affiliate stations though, The CW does provide a Spanish SAP dub for \"Jane the Virgin\" and audio description is available and passed through for their Saturday morning \"One Magnificent Morning\" E/I block, which is done for all of the blocks produced for the major broadcast networks by Litton Entertainment. MyNetworkTV has no provisions for audio description or language dub tracks.\n\nOnline streaming services such as Hulu and the services of television networks themselves such as CBS All Access have yet to carry descriptive video service audio in most cases as they instead are currently focused on adding closed captioning to their libraries (the network app for ABC began to carry existing audio described shows in the fall of 2017). Netflix committed in April 2015 to begin audio description of their original series, starting with \"Daredevil\" (which features a blind protagonist with other heightened senses) and the remainder of their original programming in the next few months, making their goal in that timeframe, along with providing the DVS tracks of existing series in their library; however some platforms (mainly older versions for devices that are now unsupported) do not provide the alternate audio.\n\nABC, along with sister network Disney Channel has since added audio description to some of their programming (with a commensurate decline in Spanish-dubbed programming, though the ATSC standard allows more audio channels), but does not contract any of their shows to be described by the Media Access Group, instead going with commercial providers CaptionMax and Audio Eyes, though some special programming such as \"Toy Story of Terror!\" and \"Toy Story That Time Forgot\" is described by the Media Access Group under existing contracts with Walt Disney Pictures. NBC and their associated cable networks, along with outside productions by Universal Television such as \"Brooklyn Nine-Nine\" and \"The Mindy Project\", solely use CaptionMax for description services; Netflix also utilizes CaptionMax for their original series, while going per studio for acquired programming. Most scripted programming on Fox, except for the shows of Gordon Ramsay (\"Hell's Kitchen\", \"Hotel Hell\" and \"Kitchen Nightmares\") is described by the Media Access Group; Ramsay's programs are contracted by his producing studio to have audio description done by Scottish-born voiceover artist Mhairi Morrison with Descriptive Video Works. Unique to most described shows, Fox's \"Empire\" uses actress Adrienne Barbeau for their description. CBS's described shows all use the Media Access Group.\n\nSome shows have lost their DVS during their original network runs due to outside factors or complications. For instance, \"American Dad!\" had a two-season interregnum in part of season 12 and all of season 13 without any DVS service during its move from Fox to TBS in late 2014, before it returned in November 2016 for its fourteenth season. \"The Mindy Project\" lost DVS at the start of their fourth season upon the move to Hulu, which does not yet provide DVS service.\n\nOn November 26, 2018 Adult Swim Begins DVS on Family Guy, Bob's Burgers and American Dad\n\nABC:\n\nAdult Swim: Begins November 26, 2018\n\nCBS:\n\nThe CW:\n\nDisney Channel:\n\nFox:\n\nHistory:\n\nNBC:\n\nNetflix:\n\nNickelodeon:\n\nPBS:\n\nSyfy:\n\nTBS:\n\nTNT:\n\nTurner Classic Movies:\n\nUSA Network:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1644140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1644140", "title": "Education Bureau", "text": "Education Bureau\n\nThe Education Bureau (; abbr. EDB) is responsible for implementing education policies in Hong Kong.\n\nThe bureau is headed by the Secretary for Education and oversees agencies including University Grants Committee and Student Finance Office.\n\nThe Education Department ( and 教育司署 before 1983) was responsible for education matters in the territory, with the exception of post-secondary and tertiary education. In 2003, the department was abolished and a new bureau, the Education and Manpower Bureau ( abbreviated EMB) was formed. In July 2007, the manpower portfolio was transferred to the new Labour and Welfare Bureau by newly re-elected Chief Executive Donald Tsang.\n\nThe bureau was formerly housed at the Former French Mission Building.\n\nThe Education System includes: Kindergarten Education, Primary and Secondary School Education, Special Education, Post-secondary Education, and other Education and Training.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48693716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48693716", "title": "Education in Asia", "text": "Education in Asia\n\nEnrollment in educational institutions varies considerably across the continent of Asia, as evidenced by data maintained by United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). UNESCO's measurement categories for education are used in the context of international development work, and are adopted by the World Bank in its EdStats database. The United Nations issues a Human Development Index for each nation, of which the Education Index is a component.\n\nThe Gross Enrollment Ratio (GER) is a component of the Education Index. It expresses the number of students enrolled in a given level of education as a percentage of the number of people within the official age for that level of education. GER can exceed 100% because some enrolled students may fall outside the official age range.\n\nThe tables below show GER for each country in Asia, organized into five regions by population: South Asia, East Asia, Southeast Asia, West Asia and Central Asia. Data are shown for four levels of education: pre-primary, primary, secondary and tertiary. (Tertiary education is also referred to as higher education).\n\nThe last year for which data are available is shown in parentheses following each number in the table. If the year is the same as for the column to the left, the year is omitted.\n\nAs Asian nations compete in the global economy and aspire to join the developed nations, there is concern that rates of education may not be keeping pace. By comparison, Gross Enrollment Rates for North America and Western Europe in 2013 were 84.3% for pre-primary, 101.1% for primary, 105.1% for secondary, and 76.6% for tertiary education.\nMany Asian nations lack the capacity to scale up their enrollment to meet the escalating demand.\nThere is also concern about a quality gap, as nations seek to scale up their enrollment quickly. A recent HSBC survey of 8400 parents in 15 Asia-Pacific countries revealed that parents from Hong Kong spend the most on their children's education to ensure a quality education that increases their competitiveness in the labor market. On average, parents in Hong Kong spend an average of $132,100 per child, which is almost three times as much as the global amount of $44,200. Singapore and Taiwan followed with education expenditures of $70,939 and $56,400 respectively.\n\nThere is concern about a gap between the education sought by the labor market and what is being taught in the educational institutions.\nMany Asian countries - mostly in East Asia and Southeast Asia - experienced a demographic dividend that boosted their economies during the past few decades. There is a widespread view that the South Asian countries are poised to benefit from a demographic dividend because their populations are young relative to the developed countries. However, reaping this dividend is expected to require a work force that is well educated, which means, at a minimum, increasing enrollment rates and educational quality.\nEven though many Asian nations still have low GER compared with their North American and Western European counterparts, there has been considerable progress in recent years. For example, consider the change in GER over ten years preceding the latest data reported, for the three most populous Asian countries: China, India and Indonesia. All three countries had achieved virtually universal primary education (close to 100%) before this ten-year period, so consider the other three levels. Over a ten-year period, China's GER increased from 40% to 74% for pre-primary, from 60% to 92% for secondary, and from 15% to 30% for tertiary education. India's GER increased from 25% to 58% for pre-primary, from 48% to 71% for secondary, and from 11% to 25% for tertiary education. Indonesia's GER increased from 26% to 51% for pre-primary, from 61% to 83% for secondary, and from 15% to 32% for tertiary education.\n"}
{"id": "53992531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53992531", "title": "Education sector responses to LGBT violence", "text": "Education sector responses to LGBT violence\n\nEducation sector responses to LGBT violence addresses the ways in which education systems work to create safe learning environments for LGBT students. Overall, education sector responses tend to focus on homophobia and violence linked to sexual orientation and gender identity/expression, and less on transphobia. Most responses focus in some way on diverse expressions of gender and support students to understand that gender may be expressed in a different way from binary models (of masculine and feminine). Responses vary greatly in their scope (from a single class to the national level); duration (from one-off events to several years); and level of support that they enjoy (from individual teachers to the highest levels of government).\n\nA comprehensive education sector response to homophobic and transphobic violence encompasses all of the following elements: effective policies, relevant curricula and learning materials, training and support for staff, support for students and families information and strategic partnerships, and monitoring and evaluation.\n\nVery few countries have education sector policies that address homophobic and transphobic violence or include sexual orientation and gender identity/expression in curricula or learning materials. In most countries, staff lack training and support to address sexual orientation and gender identity/expression and to prevent and respond to homophobic and transphobic violence. Although many countries provide support for students who experience violence, services are often ill-equipped to deal with homophobic and transphobic violence. Few countries collect data on the nature, prevalence or impact of homophobic and transphobic violence, which contributes to low awareness of the problem and lack of evidence for planning effective responses.\n\nIn general terms, the range of responses to homophobic and transphobic violence in educational settings appears to correlate to a country's: socio-cultural context (in terms of the society's beliefs and attitudes towards sexual and gender diversity, as well as to human rights and gender equality); and legal context (in terms of the rights of LGBTI individuals and the situation of human rights in general). \n\nFew countries have developed education sector policies to prevent and address homophobic and transphobic violence in schools, reflecting the fact that recognition of the prevalence and harmful impact of such violence in the sector is a relatively recent development. Most countries that have developed policies have taken one of the two following approaches:\nThe first approach aims to protect and support LGBTI students by mainstreaming issues related to sexual orientation and gender identity into broader policies to prevent and address discrimination and violence. However, available data suggest that in countries where policies do not clearly refer to homophobic and transphobic violence, this form of violence may not be addressed by schools. For example, a large-scale qualitative research study conducted in 19 European countries in 2013 by the European Union Fundamental Rights Agency concluded that: 'Where anti-bullying measures are in place, these are often generic and they may be ineffective in dealing specifically with bullying on the grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity.\n\nThe second approach requires political leadership and a legal environment that is conducive to the protection of the rights of LGBTI people. A number of countries have developed specific education sector policies that address homophobic and transphobic violence in schools and other educational settings.\n\nWork conducted in countering violence in schools in general has shown that 'school and system wide interventions', often referred to as 'whole school' strategies or approaches, are particularly effective. The same applies to education sector responses to homophobic and transphobic violence. In this report, 'whole school' responses to homophobic and transphobic violence are also referred to as 'comprehensive' education sector responses, which can also be referred to as 'holistic', 'systematic', 'systemic', 'system-wide'.\n\nProgress in implementing measures to prevent and address homophobic and transphobic violence in educational settings varies between regions and countries. The most comprehensive initiatives are being implemented in Australia and New Zealand, Canada and the United States, and a number of countries in Europe, Asia and Latin America. However, the education sector response has been limited in the majority of countries in the world, particularly in Africa, the Caribbean, the Middle East, Central Asia and some areas of the Pacific. In addition, it is important to note that many countries do not have comprehensive strategies to prevent and address violence in schools in general.\n\nNational legislation against discrimination (as a whole) has served as a basis to develop national policies – which either include, or are specific to, the education sector – that address discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity/expression. In general, the education sector tends to address homophobic and transphobic violence through wider policies on violence, such as those related to bullying in schools or safe schools.\n\nIn Asia, the Philippines is the only country to include specific references to violence on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity/expression in a national law (2013). In Japan, in 2015, the Ministry of Education issued landmark guidance urging local education boards to ensure that schools cater to the needs of LGBT students. At a more local level, the 2004 Gender Equity Education Act in Taiwan of China seeks to eliminate gender stereotypes from the curriculum and prohibits discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation in schools. However, a regional report developed for this review notes that implementation measures for this Act may be inadequate to effectively prevent and address discrimination.\n\nAll other countries in the Asia region, apart from Pakistan, have legal or policy frameworks to address violence in educational institutions or the health of minors, although they vary in their nature and jurisdiction. In India, following a 2014 ruling by the Supreme Court recognizing the status of Hijras, the University Grants Commission called on all universities to recognize transgender students and to include a transgender category on all application forms, academic testimonials and official documents.\n\nIn North America, in 2002, the Supreme Court in Canada ruled that LGBT students and same-sex parents had the right to be safe from discrimination and to see their lives reflected in the school curriculum. In 2005, it ruled that school districts were 'liable for the discriminatory conduct of the students who harassed' and that they had a duty to provide students with 'an educational environment that does not expose them to discriminatory harassment'. The Ontario Education Act of Canada was amended in 2012 to specifically integrate attention to homophobic bullying following several years of amendments to Safe School legislation. The Act strengthened legal obligations for school boards to foster positive school environments and to prevent and address inappropriate student behaviour, including homophobic or transphobic violence. For example, principals must suspend students and consider expulsion for misbehaviour that is motivated by bias, prejudice or hatred, including that which is based on gender, sexual orientation or gender identity/expression. School boards must provide support for victims of bullying, witnesses and perpetrators. In Quebec, legislation was adopted in 2012 for schools to provide healthy and safe learning environments, allowing every student to develop their full potential regardless of their sexual orientation or gender identity/expression.\n\nIn the United States, LGBT students are not protected under federal legislation. However, in 2010, the Department of Education issued guidance to specify that federal provisions outlawing discrimination on the basis of sex in education (Title IX) also offered some protection against bullying on the basis of sexual orientation. In 2014, it extended this protection on the grounds of gender identity. The Department of Justice also clarified that transgender students must be allowed to use restrooms that correspond to their gender identity and that failure to do so amounts to sex discrimination under Title IX. In May 2016, the Department of Education released Examples of Policies and Emerging Practices for Supporting Transgender Students. The document has a list of questions and answers for schools and educators concerning Student transitions, Privacy, Confidentiality, and Student Records, Sex-Segregated Activities and Facilities, Additional Practices to Support Transgender Students, Terminology, Cited Policies on Transgender Students, and Select Federal Resources on Transgender Students. On February 22, 2017, the U.S. Department of Education withdrew statements of support and guidance previously issued in the Letter to Emily Prince from James A. Ferg-Cadima, Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary for Policy, Office for Civil Rights at the Department of Education dated January 7, 2015 and the Dear Colleague Letter on Transgender Students jointly issued by the Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice and the Department of Education dated May 13, 2016. \n\nIn Latin America and the Caribbean, Argentina is the only country that offers a full normative framework to tackle sexual orientation and gender identity/expression issues in educational contexts through the National Law on Integral Sexuality Education (2006) (26.150), the National Law on Education (2006) (26.206), the National Law for the Promotion of Coexistence and Tackling Social Conflict in Educational Institutions (2013) (26.892) and a federal guide for educational responses for addressing challenging situations linked to school life. The guide also contains a specific section on discrimination and harassment due to sexual orientation or gender identity/expression.\n\nIn 2015, the Constitutional Court of Colombia and the Supreme Court of Mexico found that bullying undermined victims' dignity, integrity and education and that the education sector had a direct duty to protect students from violence based on their personal characteristics.\n\nIn Uruguay, the General Law on Education (2014) includes a general reference to non-discrimination due to sexual orientation. In El Salvador, the General Law on Youth, while not referring to sexual orientation and gender identity/expression, recognizes and guarantees the right to integral comprehensive sexuality education (2013). Also the General Law on Education's article 5-A condemns inequalities and discriminatory practices between or towards students when based on traditional gendered roles (1990).\n\nOther countries have instruments to prevent and counter discrimination or violence, including bullying. Examples include the following:\n\nIn Chile, Law 20.609 (2012) and the Law on Education (2009) are in place to counter discrimination in general and can also be applied to a school setting. However, as none of the laws are LGBT-specific, addressing homophobic and transphobic violence is left at the discretion of individual schools.\n\nIn Colombia, no specific policy exists to tackle homophobic and transphobic violence. Law 1620 (from 2013) and the Regulatory Decree (1965) establish minimal norms for applying the Integral Roadmap for Educational Community Living and its protocols, in order to prevent and mitigate situations affecting school community living and the exercising of human, sexual and reproductive rights.\n\nIn Honduras, the Law Against Bullying was adopted in 2014. However, it does not refer to particular motives for bullying.\n\nIn Peru, the General Law on Education (2003) establishes that integral sexuality education is part of the right to education. A Law promoting violence-free community living in educational institutions (29719) exists (2011), although it does not refer to homophobic or transphobic violence.\n\nCuba, El Salvador and Peru guarantee the right to comprehensive sexuality education, which should cover issues related to sexual orientation and gender identity/expression.\n\nAs with other regions of the world, although these rights-based policies are on the statute books in countries in Latin America and the Caribbean, a regional survey of 19 states – conducted by the Inter-American Institute for Human Rights in 2011 – noted that, in the majority of cases, they are not rigorously implemented and are 'always very general, dispersed, and in some cases ambiguous'.\n\nIn Europe, some countries have specific laws and policies to address homophobic and transphobic violence in educational settings. In Belgium, the Flemish Ministry for Education and Equal Opportunities issued a Common Declaration for a Gender-Sensitive and LGBT Friendly Policy in Schools in 2012, establishing a framework for sexuality education and providing guidelines for schools to develop LGBT-inclusive policies.\n\nIn France, although no national policy mentions homophobic and transphobic violence, the Ministry of Education's annual letter to principals has, since 2009, mentioned combating homophobia. Also, a 2012 governmental plan to combat homophobic and transphobic violence foresees specific actions in the education sector. In Portugal, the Students' Statute (2012) includes protection against discrimination based on both sexual orientation and gender identity/expression. In Sweden, the Discrimination Act (2009) explicitly bans discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity/expression in education, and obliges pre-schools, schools and universities to take proactive measures against violence. The United Kingdom's Equality Act (2010) makes it a duty for schools to advance equality for their LGBT students. The Act explicitly mentions sexual orientation and gender reassignment and mandates that every school should have a behaviour policy preventing all forms of bullying.\n\nIn the Pacific, Australia's 2013 Sex Discrimination Act (Sexual Orientation, Gender Identity and Intersex Status) builds on previous state-level legislation and provides protections against discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, gender identity/expression and intersex status (although some exemptions exist for some religious schools). Also in Australia, the State of Victoria's Department of Education and Early Childhood Development provides guidance to support sexual diversity in schools.\n\nIn Fiji, the 2015 Policy on Child Protection in Schools requires schools to respect children's sexual orientation and to take action against bullying, including homophobic bullying. In New Zealand, the Ministry of Education published a Guide for Sexuality Education (2015) stating that school anti-bullying procedures should directly address bullying related to sexual orientation and gender identity/expression and that these incidents should be recorded as such and monitored. The comprehensive guidance also touches upon the curriculum, school uniforms, restroom facilities, procedures and policies in sports and extra-curricular activities.\n\nOther countries in the region offer limited protection from school-related violence. Papua New Guinea alone specifically forbids such practice, while other countries protect children's health in general or offer only limited protection to children (in Tonga).\n\nIn Africa, a review of policies on gender, diversity and violence in schools in Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa and Swaziland – conducted within the study supported by UNESCO in 2015 – found that countries have generic legal and policy frameworks (including in education) that provide a conducive environment to address violence in schools. In Lesotho and Swaziland, they are mostly related to child protection. Swaziland has an education sector policy where Schools as Centres of Care and Support (SCCS) are supposed to be 'protective and secure environments which accommodate all learners'. In Botswana and Namibia, Education for All National Action Plans and other education policies clearly mention inclusive and non-discriminatory education. However, none of these policies make reference to sexual and gender diversity, except for South Africa. Only South Africa has explicit policies to deal with homophobic bullying in education. The UNESCO-supported study found that, in interview, national policy-makers in Southern Africa suggest that the overall absence of specific policies may reflect the lack of reliable evidence on the nature, prevalence and impact of homophobic and transphobic violence in educational settings in the region, or that it is not considered a political priority. Where specific national legislation or policies (including in the education sector) are lacking, other entry points may exist to address homophobic and transphobic violence in educational institutions. These include international or regional human rights frameworks, but also general laws and policies against violence in educational institutions (for which additional guidance can be produced to detail how they apply to homophobic and transphobic violence). Finally, national anti-discrimination laws in Southern Africa (whether or not they mention sexual orientation and gender identity/expression) may also provide good entry points for the education sector to consider adopting new policies or upgrading existing ones.\n\nThe second element of a comprehensive response to homophobic and transphobic violence in educational settings is relevant curricula and learning materials. Through their content and the way that they are delivered, curricula, learning materials and extra-curricular activities in educational settings – such as sports or theatre – convey influential messages about 'normality', legitimacy and power. Curricula are never neutral. Those that do not feature sexual and gender diversity convey the implicit message that people with diverse sexual orientations and gender identities/expressions are not part of society. Worse still, some curricula may explicitly convey negative messages about LGBTI people.\n\nCurricula generally take one of four approaches for sexual and gender diversity:\nHostile and non-inclusive curricula tend to exist in contexts where homophobia and transphobia are widespread. They do nothing to prevent or reduce violence based on sexual orientation and gender identity/expression. On the contrary, hostile curricula contribute to reinforcing stereotypical and patriarchal views of gender – indirectly leading to homophobic and transphobic violence. Meanwhile, by not challenging these stereotypical and patriarchal views, non-inclusive curricula also contribute to homophobic and transphobic violence in educational institutions. In contrast, inclusive or af rming curricula may discuss de nitions of masculinity and femininity and challenge existing stereotypes about gender and sexuality – contributing to increasing LGBTI students' feeling of belonging and safety.\n\nResearch suggests that curricula featuring sexual orientation and gender identity/expression positively impact students' and teachers' beliefs and attitudes, encouraging critical thinking and increasing feelings of safety at school. They also help to address violence. The literature confirms that challenging homophobia and transphobia in education is most effective when LGBTI issues are reflected and featured through teaching and lesson plans, and when LGBTI people are positively portrayed across the curriculum.\n"}
{"id": "42025113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42025113", "title": "Elisabeth Jensen", "text": "Elisabeth Jensen\n\nElisabeth Jensen is an education advocate and the Democratic Party nominee for Kentucky's 6th congressional district in the United States House of Representatives elections in Kentucky, 2014.\n\nElisabeth Jensen was born in Indiana and graduated from Perry Meridian High School in Indianapolis after attending Aiglon College. Jensen earned a degree in design and merchandising from the Wood Tobé-Coburn School and attended the Fashion Institute of Technology. Jensen was an executive for Disney Consumer Products but, as a lifelong horse enthusiast, decided to move to Kentucky in order to work with Thoroughbreds. In 2000, Jensen became the manager of Tracy Farmer's stables and later managed public relations for WinStar Farm. In 2002, Jensen co-founded The Race for Education, an organization that provides services such as scholarships and financial literacy training to students with financial needs. The Race for Education has provided over $5 million in scholarships and education programs and has earned recognition from the White House Office of Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships. Jensen founded another organization in 2009 called Starting Gate, an after-school organization for middle school students that is currently offered in Fayette and Bourbon counties. She has also been involved in an organization called Unique that provides support for families with children that have unique and chromosome disorders.\n\nJensen graduated from Emerge Kentucky, a political-training program for women. She has served as a volunteer for several political campaigns, including Gov. Steve Beshear and U.S. Rep. Ben Chandler, and was an alternate delegate to the Democratic National Convention in 2012. In 2011, Gov. Steve Beshear appointed Jensen to the Kentucky Department of Education's State Advisory Panel for Exceptional Children.\n\nIn December 2013, Jensen filed to run for the Democratic nomination for Kentucky's 6th congressional district in the United States House of Representatives elections in Kentucky, 2014. Jensen was seen as the front-runner for the Democratic nomination and was endorsed by Adam Edelen, Jack Conway, Jerry Abramson, John Yarmuth, Emily's List, Teamsters, UFCW, AFGE, NALC, Pam Miller, Reggie Thomas, Sannie Overly, and Susan Westrom. In March 2014, Jensen received endorsements from the AFL-CIO, United Automobile Workers, and the Kentucky Building and Trades Council. In May 2014, Jensen was endorsed by Governor Steve Beshear and The Lexington Herald-Leader. Jensen won the Democratic nomination in the primary with 61% of the vote. After the primary, Jensen's campaign received attention from the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee which placed her campaign on their \"Emerging Races\" initiative.\n\nJensen's campaign received national attention due to Jensen's decision to campaign based on the success of Kynect, Kentucky's health insurance marketplace created in accordance with the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. On May 12, 2014, Jensen appeared on \"All In with Chris Hayes\" to discuss Kynect. Barr defeated Jensen in the general election by 60% to 40%.\n\n"}
{"id": "598359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=598359", "title": "Elliot Aronson", "text": "Elliot Aronson\n\nElliot Aronson (born January 9, 1932) is an American psychologist who is best known for his experiments on the theory of cognitive dissonance and for his invention of the Jigsaw Classroom, a cooperative teaching technique which facilitates learning while reducing interethnic hostility and prejudice. In his popular (1972) social psychology textbook, \"The Social Animal,\" (now in its 11th edition), he stated Aronson's First Law: \"People who do crazy things are not necessarily crazy,\" thus asserting the importance of situational factors in bizarre behavior. He is the only person in the 120-year history of the American Psychological Association to have won all three of its major awards: for writing, for teaching, and for research. In 2007 he received the William James Award for Lifetime Achievement from the Association for Psychological Science, in which he was cited as the scientist who \"fundamentally changed the way we look at everyday life.” A \"Review of General Psychology\" survey, published in 2002, ranked Aronson as the 78th most cited psychologist of the 20th century. He officially retired in 1994 but continues to teach and write.\n\nAronson grew up in extreme poverty in Revere, Massachusetts, during the Great Depression. His was the only Jewish family in the neighbourhood, and it was not rare for Aronson to be bullied on the way home from Hebrew school by anti-Semitic gangs. He believes that every life's progress is based on a combination of luck, opportunity, talent, and intuition. Although his high school grades were mediocre, his SAT scores were high enough to earn him a work-study scholarship at Brandeis University.\n\nInfluenced by his father, he began his college career majoring in economics. However, he promptly changed his major to psychology after accidentally wandering into an Introductory Psychology lecture taught by Abraham Maslow. After attending this lecture, he realized that there was an entire science devoted to exploring the kinds of questions that had intrigued him as a child. His undergraduate years at Brandeis brought him closer to a number of respected psychologists, but Maslow was his primary mentor and had the biggest impact on his early academic career.\nAronson earned his Bachelor's degree from Brandeis in 1954. He went on to earn a Master's degree from Wesleyan University in 1956, where he worked with David McClelland, and a Ph.D. in psychology from Stanford University in 1959, where his doctoral advisor and mentor was the experimental social psychologist Leon Festinger.\n\nAronson has taught at Harvard University, the University of Minnesota, the University of Texas, and the University of California, Santa Cruz. He also served as Distinguished Visiting Professor at Stanford University. He was included in a list of the 100 most influential psychologists of the 20th century published by the \"Review of General Psychology\". He was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and won the William James Award from the Association for Psychological Science for his lifetime achievements. His honors include distinguished research awards from the American Psychological Association, the American Association for the Advancement of Science and the Society of Experimental Social Psychology. He also won the Gordon Allport Prize for his work on reducing prejudice. In 1981 he was one of five academics awarded \"Professor of the Year\" by the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education.\n\nOne of Aronson's key areas of interest and research has been the theory of cognitive dissonance. Aronson refined the theory, which posits that when attitudes and behaviors are inconsistent (dissonant), psychological discomfort results. This discomfort motivates the person experiencing it to either change the behavior or the attitude so that consonance is restored. In a classic experiment, Aronson demonstrated that people who undergo an embarrassing initiation to gain admission to a group develop more favorable evaluations of the group than people who are admitted after a mild or easy initiation. In Aronson's \"Theories of Cognitive Consistency\", he states: \"Dissonance theory does not rest upon the assumption that man is a rational animal; rather, it suggests that man is a rationalizing animal – that he attempts to appear rational, both to others and to himself.\"\n\nAronson led the development of a classroom technique for defusing inter-group tension and promoting self-esteem.\nIn 1971 the newly desegregated schools of Austin, Texas faced a crisis of violence between ethnic groups.\nAronson, then at the University of Texas, was called in as a consultant by a school administrator who was also a former student.\nAronson noticed that the schools' highly competitive atmosphere was exacerbating the already tense ethnic rivalry.\nTogether with his graduate students, he developed a model of teaching practice to encourage a culture of shared goals and mutual support.\nIn the jigsaw classroom approach, pupils are divided into small groups, mixed by race and by ability, to work co-operatively on a task.\nThe classroom material—for example a biography of a historical figure—is broken into sections, and one member of each group is responsible for reading each section. Members with the same role from each group gather in \"expert groups\" to discuss their sections. They then return to their own groups and take turns to present what they have learned. They are then assessed individually on all sections of the material. This division of responsibilities means that students are motivated to listen to each other and each of them experiences a role in which they are valuable to others.\n\nComparisons with traditional classroom environments showed that the jigsaw classroom has positive effects on academic performance, self-esteem and attitudes towards other ethnic groups.\nThe technique has since been applied in hundreds of schools across North America. From its initial application at third- to fifth-grade school level, it has been expanded to other educational levels. This success encouraged Aronson to apply his research to other policy issues including energy conservation and the treatment of the elderly.\nIn the aftermath of the Columbine High School massacre, Aronson advocated for jigsaw classrooms as part of an approach to defusing the social divisions underlying school violence.\n\nIn 1965, Aronson proposed that interpersonal attraction and liking could be understood in terms of the balance of reward and cost. This implied that contrast—a gain or loss of positive feedback from the other person—has more effect on liking than the absolute level of feedback. An example is how compliments are more meaningful when they come from someone who is usually critical, rather than from a reliable supporter. Another example is that a couple may feel more dedicated to their relationship if they initially disliked each other.\n\nAronson published a paper in 1966 where he described an experiment testing the effects of a simple blunder on perceived attraction. The so-called Pratfall effect is the tendency for attractiveness to increase or decrease after an individual makes a mistake, depending on the individual's perceived competence, or ability to perform well in a general sense.\n\nElliot is married to Vera Aronson, whom he met while they were both undergraduate research assistants under Abraham Maslow. Together they have had four children: Hal, Neal, Julie and Joshua, who is himself a social psychologist. In 2000, Aronson was diagnosed with macular degeneration and, by 2003, had lost all of his central vision. To cope with his blindness, Aronson decided to get a guide dog, and applied at Guide Dogs for the Blind in 2010. In January 2011 he began a three-week training session with his new guide dog, Desilu, nicknamed Desi. He graduated from the program on February 12, 2011. He said, \"They worked us 14 hours a day, until we were almost as smart as our dogs.\"\n\nAronson has written more than twenty books, including textbooks, popularizations and one book of children's fiction with his granddaughter Ruth Aronson. In 2010, Psychology Press published a book of essays and scholarly articles by his friends, colleagues, and former students celebrating his influence on their work: \"The Scientist and the Humanist: A Festschrift in Honor of Elliot Aronson.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17856754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17856754", "title": "Flying Start Challenge", "text": "Flying Start Challenge\n\nThe Flying Start Challenge is a contest run by Aerospace businesses and organisations in the South West of England for local secondary schools to help develop science and engineering skills whilst highlighting the opportunities available in a career in engineering. Initiated by the Campaign to Promote Engineering, the Challenge is now entering its 12th year and still offers a great opportunity for schools to forge links with local industry. \n\nThe sponsors are: Agusta Westland, Airbus, Atkins, Fleet Air Arm Museum, GKN Aerospace, BAE, MBDA, Messier-Bugatti-Dowty and Rolls-Royce. \n\nThe Challenge is open to pupils in Years 7 to 9 who are organised into teams of 4 with the aim of \"designing and building a hand-launched glider made from sustainable materials\". Each team is supported by graduates, apprentices and trainees from the sponsor companies, with lessons on design, manufacture and testing, in addition to some practical advice on their glider designs.\n\nEach team has the opportunity to fly their glider at a Regional Fly-off. Teams will be judged both on the distance flown and on a poster presentation detailing the design decisions made. Regional Fly-offs are held in Cheltenham, Bristol and Yeovil. \n\nThe winning teams from the Regional Fly-Off progress to the Grand Final held at the Fleet Air Arm Museum at Yeovilton. The teams take part in a series of engineering challenges organised by the companies involved and compete to be named the best team. The winning team receive free glider flights with the winning school awarded a voucher for £1000 of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) equipment. Second place receives £500, third place £250.\n"}
{"id": "31435652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31435652", "title": "General Students Assembly", "text": "General Students Assembly\n\nThe General Students Assembly is the supreme and sovereign body of the association of students in every university in Greece. It decides on every subject and exercises supervision and control over other institutions of the association. It is the supreme decision-making body of the Association (union of students), comprising all members of the club and take decisions by majority vote after an open debate on the issues. Every faculty has its own assembly, for example: General Student Assembly of the Faculty of History, General Student Assembly of the Faculty of Mathematics.\n\nMany associations of students have a student council which is accountable to the general assembly and shall transfer to the administration of the university its decisions and to prepare them.\n\nThe Administration of the Universities is obliged to consider every decision of the assemblies very seriously, as stated in the Law for the Functioning of Universities.\n\nStudent Unions and General Student Assemblies exist in every state university in Greece. The right to form such assemblies is guaranteed by the Law of the Universities in Greece, introduced in 1974, after the fall of the Greek military junta. From this point on, a number of rights were given to the members of the academic community, in the spirit of democracy and freedom of expression, following the struggle against the military dictatorship in the preceding years. Since then, these associations have been leading the political activity of Greek students.\n\nEvery student that is registered in a university, is automatically a member of that university's Student Union and has the right to participate in assemblies.\n\nIn most of the cases, members of the Union (and therefore of the assemblies) cannot be students who:\n\nEvery university in the country has its own \"Statute of Student Union\", which describes how the union operates. Despite some minor differences, all statutes follow the same, basic directions of the functions of student assemblies:\n\n\nThe decisions of the assemblies are taken by majority after an open vote with raising of hands. The assembly and the decisions are not valid if less than one-third (1/3) of the students are present. In such cases, the council must announce another assembly in the next five days, with the same subjects. Then, the number of students present in this Assembly cannot be less than the one-fourth (1/4). If the number of students still isn't enough in the second attempt, the council must announce, for the third and final time, an Assembly in the next two to six days, in which the decisions would be valid, regardless of attendance.\n\nTo take decisions on changing the “Statute of Student Union” or to dissolve the Union, an absolute majority of at least 50% of all members of the Union is required. Changing the goals of the Union requires consensus, not just voting.\n\nThe decisions of the General Assembly are absolutely mandatory for all students-members of the Union.\n\nIn every Assembly, the students choose moderators in order to better organize the discussion. The moderators count the votes of the students and sign the official papers with the decisions at the end of every Assembly. They also have the responsibility to give a speaking opportunity, in succession, to anyone who asks for it, as well as to control the students who don’t respect the procedure. The moderators are the ones who declare the opening and closing of the General Student Assembly and they have the right to stop and dissolve any assembly that is too noisy and out of order.\n\nRegular General Student Assemblies are held after the decision of the student council twice in a school year. The choice of subjects that will be discussed is open to all the students.\n\nSpecial General Student Assemblies are held for urgent and serious matters of the Union (in cases of rising student movements and protests, assemblies can be held every week). There are several ways to call a Special Assembly such as for the student council to decide it or the students to gather signatures from 1/10 of all the students in their faculty. In this case, the subject of the assembly must be concrete and the president of the student council is obliged to call for assembly no later than 3 days after the signatures are gathered.\n\n"}
{"id": "45198881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45198881", "title": "Giuseppe Ferdinando Brivio", "text": "Giuseppe Ferdinando Brivio\n\nGiuseppe Ferdinando Brivio (c. 1699, Milan – c. 1758, Milan) was an Italian composer, conductor, violinist, and singing teacher who is chiefly known for his operas. His work displays a natural expression and uses figurations similar to that of Antonio Vivaldi.\n\nHe was born in Milan. The earliest record of Brivio was in a court document indicating his postition as a violinist at the Royal Palace of Milan in 1720. He soon after to become the music director at the Royal Palace's theatre where he remained until October 13, 1732. He later returned to the theater in c.1738 and remained active there through 1742. At the Teatro Ducale his first known opera, \"Ipermestra\", premiered on 6 December 1727. While in Milan he also ran an influential school of singing. Two of his notable pupils were sopranos Giulia Frasi and Caterina Visconti.\n\nBrivio went on to write 5 more operas: \"L'Olimpiade\" (premiere 5 March 1737, Teatro Regio di Torino), \"Artaserse\" (premiere 2 June 1738, Teatro degli Obizzi di Padova), \"Merope\" (premiere 26 December 1738, Teatro Ducale di Milano), and \"La Germania trionfante in Arminio\" (premiere 2 May 1739, Teatro Ducale di Milano). His music was also used in three Pasticcio mounted at the King's Theatre, Haymarket, London during the 1740s, \"Gianguir\" (premiere 2 November 1742), \"Mandane\" (premiere 12 December 1742), and \"L'incostanza delusa\" (premiere 9 February 1745). The final stage work to use his music was another pasticcio, \"L'Olimpiade\", which premiered at the Teatro Marsigli-Rossi di Bologna on 10 May 1755.\n\nBesides opera, Brivio produced a small amount of instrumental music. One of his two known violin concertos was included in a well known publication of Italian music by French parliamentarian Pierre Philibert de Blancheton, alongside composers Angelo Maria Scaccia and Carlo Zuccari.\n\nBrivio died in Milan around 1758.\n"}
{"id": "39566734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39566734", "title": "Global Assessment Certificate", "text": "Global Assessment Certificate\n\nThe Global Assessment Certificate program (also known as the GAC, /ʤi: eI si:/, jee-ay-see) is a university preparation and foundation studies program that provides students from mostly non-English-speaking backgrounds with academic knowledge and skills to prepare them for western-style postsecondary study. It is owned and developed by ACT Education Solutions, Ltd. (AES), an international subsidiary of ACT, Inc.\n\nThe GAC is recognized for admissions and credit transfer purposes by more than 90 universities around the globe, including The University of Iowa, LIU Post, the University of Idaho, Oklahoma State University, Southern Oregon University (in the United States), Griffith University, University Technology Sydney, Bond, La Trobe, and RMIT (in Australia) for admissions purposes and is considered an alternative or addition to Year 12 for international students.\n\nThe GAC is licensed to teaching centers (known as ‘Approved Teaching Centers’ or ATCs). The program is monitored and moderated by AES staff based at the organization’s regional offices in Shanghai, Jakarta and Singapore. It is not currently accredited.\n\nThe GAC can be delivered full-time or part-time as a concurrent co-curriculum with the high school curriculum. The minimum requirements for delivery of the program are 720 hours of face-to-face instruction and 360 hours of independent study, half of which must be supervised. The program is continuously assessed and all assessments are moderated by ACT Education Solutions. \n\nLevel I\n\nSix mandatory modules with a total of 240 hours of face-to-face study, plus 120 hours independent study. Includes academic English, study skills, mathematics, computing, and communication skills.\n\nLevel II\n\nTwo mandatory academic English modules, plus four of six specialization modules across the areas of business, computing, mathematics, science, psychology and social science. Electives in IELTS or TOEFL preparation are available.\n\nLevel III\n\nTwo mandatory academic English modules plus four of six specialization modules across the areas of business, computing, mathematics, science, psychology and social science. ACT Test preparation is also available.\n\nThe GAC Grade Point Average (GPA) scale is based on a four-point scale with a passing grade of 55% (GPA 0.6). Grading criteria for each assessment are clearly stipulated in documentation provided to Approved Teaching Centers (ATCs) and teachers and directors of studies are trained by ACT Education Solutions, Limited's academic staff in the correct application of the grading criteria. All grades are finalized by ACT Education Solutions, Limited's academic staff prior to posting on ACT Education Solutions, Limited's secure online database, iTAP. Higher education institutions can verify GAC graduates' certificates and transcripts through the iTAP database. \n\nThe American Council on Education’s (www.acenet.edu) College Credit Recommendation Service (ACE CREDIT) recommended college credit for 15 of the GAC program modules in 2016. ACE found 15 GAC modules to be equivalent to associate degree–level subjects at US colleges and universities. Each was recommended for 3 semester credit hours, up to a total of 44 credit hours.\n\nInformation on how each module is recommended for credit is available from ACE’s National Guide, searching under the organization’s name.\n"}
{"id": "55967394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55967394", "title": "Glowing pickle demonstration", "text": "Glowing pickle demonstration\n\nApplying line voltage across a pickled cucumber causes it to glow. A moist pickle contains salt as a result of the pickling process, which allows it to conduct electricity. Sodium (or other) ions within the pickle emit light as a result of atomic electron transitions, although it is not clear why the luminescence occurs at one end of the pickle.\n\nThe glowing pickle is used to demonstrate ionic conduction and atomic emission in chemistry classes, and also as a demonstration in lighting classes.\n"}
{"id": "28604990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28604990", "title": "Haus des Meeres", "text": "Haus des Meeres\n\nThe Haus des Meeres (HdM, English: \"House of the Sea\") is a public aquarium in Vienna, Austria. It is located in Esterhazy Park in downtown Mariahilf district, one block south of the busy Mariahilfer Straße. The Haus des Meeres houses over ten thousand aquatic beings on an area of around inside a tall concrete flak tower built during World War II. In 2012 the Haus des Meeres attracted a record high of 436,500 visitors. The Haus des Meeres is managed by Aqua Terra Zoo, a private non-profit organization which, according to its web site, receives only marginal financial support from municipal authorities. However, the maintenance costs for the former flak tower are paid by the taxpayer.\n\nThe first public seawater aquarium in Vienna was opened in 1860 by Gustav Jäger. Jäger's aquarium, like its contemporaries, relied on regular delivery of natural seawater. It became a reality in 1854 with the construction of the Semmering railway linking Vienna with the Mediterranean coast. After two years of experimenting with small seawater tanks Jäger built a large aquarium for public display. He described the feelings of contemporary people who faced the unknown submarine world: \"The first-time visitor ... cannot contain his inner excitement. His curiosity is so great that he can hardly enjoy the moment: I am sorry, but he looks so helpless, as if he has suddenly found himself among people whose language he neither speaks nor understands.\" Visitors sought new experience, but resisted believing what they saw behind the glass. The aquarium was a financial loss, and Jäger had to close it after four years of operation.\n\nThe concrete tower housing the present-day aquarium was erected as a fire control flak tower in ten months between October 1943 and July 1944. The tower is tall, with a footprint of , and its gross volume, including extensive foundations, reaches . In 1944 it was crowned with a Würzburg radar dome. In case of imminent air raid threat, the radar could be lowered into a concrete shaft with thick concrete walls. The subordinate gun battery tower is located inside a city block north of Mariahilfer Straße. The two towers operated as a single combat unit, in cooperation with two other pairs of flak towers built in Augarten (north) and in Arenberg Park (south-east). After the war the tower in Esterhazy Park was temporarily used as a hotel with 38 rooms in a bunker, and then converted to a fire station.\n\nIn the 1960s the underground part of the bunker was used as a youth hostel, named Stadtherberge Esterhazypark.\n\nVolunteers moved into the flak tower in November 1957. The ground floor and the bunkers were then occupied by the firefighters, which left only one and half habitable floors for the exhibition. The rest of the tower was filled with debris and open to the elements. Step by step, the aquarium expanded over the empty floors. Eventually, when the aquarium expanded to six floors, the firefighters left the buildings, and the aquarium staff was at last allowed to clear the basement of war relics.\n\nIn 1991 the building was crowned with a lightweight wraparound box with the slogan \"Smashed to Pieces .. In the Still of the Night\" (in English and German), a memorial against war and fascism designed by Lawrence Weiner. Eventually it became an obstacle to the expansion plans. The city authorities divided whether Weiner's work was a disposable billboard or a piece of artistic heritage, but by 2005 the latter viewpoint prevailed and the city picked up its maintenance costs. The old elevator, installed in 1944, operated without failure until 1997. It was replaced during an extensive renovation that enabled opening of three new floors (7, 8 and 9). The glass wings which house the reptiles and tropical birds, were added in 2000 and 2007. As of 2010, the tower houses ten habitable above-ground floors plus an open sightseeing roof deck. The tenth floor, which recreates a flak turm control vault, houses World War Two exhibits and is open only on weekends, with advance registration of visitors. The expansion had a side effect: the City of Vienna struck the \"defaced\" tower off the list of protected landmarks but enforced preservation of Weiner's billboard.\n\nIn 2007 the Haus des Meeres installed its largest, tank for sharks. On 7 May the aquarium moved six adult blacktip reef sharks, properly sedated, to the new tank. All sharks quietly died in a few hours after awakening. Autopsy revealed fatal internal bleeding which was blamed on stress (after the accident other zoos confirmed that blacktip sharks are, indeed, prone to stress injury). The four replacement sharks of the same species that were delivered next month survived without lasting effects. The gravel lining the bottom of the tank was recycled from World War Two concrete which was torn down during the expansion. It is visible on the 55 euro cent commemorative stamp \"50 Jahre \"Haus des Meeres\"\" issued by the Austrian Post in 2007.\n\nThe global financial crisis caused an abrupt drop in visitor numbers of Viennese art museums. The Haus des Meeres, on the contrary, steadily attracted more visitors every year: 258 thousand in 2007, 336 thousand in 2008, 353 thousand in 2009. In 2009 it rose to number ten in the list of Vienna's tourist attractions ranked by ticket sales, despite a significant increase in ticket price.\n\nFurther expansion and ownership of the tower is a controversial matter. The property is owned by the City of Vienna, which pays for the maintenance costs, and is determined to get rid of the financial burden. In 2008 the City proposed selling the tower to an outside investor and approved plans to build a private hotel on top of the flak tower. The plans were vocally opposed by the residents of Mariahilf. The Haus des Meeres itself wanted to retain future upward expansion rights. They proposed building three new exhibition space floors inside an all-glass capsule shaped like a manta ray. As of 2010, both these projects were canceled. The Haus des Meeres received a vote of confidence from local residents but had to choose a less radical solution. The six million Euro expansion project, scheduled for 2011, will add a million-liter fish tank and an open-air restaurant. The city officials are willing to consider the sale of the building to the Haus des Meeres, on condition that the new owner preserves Weiner's artwork and picks up the maintenance bill from the taxpayers.\n\n"}
{"id": "18005341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18005341", "title": "Institute of Sindhology", "text": "Institute of Sindhology\n\nInstitute of Sindhology () is one of the major resources on the history of Sindh. It was the first research institution of its kind, and brought Sindhology to the forefront of international research. Sindhology is referred to as knowledge \"about\" Sindh. The history and culture of Sindh has been shaped by the \"Indus river\". The lifeline of Sindh, brings minerals and soil from the Himalayas to the region and flows into the Arabian Sea at the Indus River Delta located in Sindh. These factors define the scope of Sindhology: the study of antiquities, the relics, the history, and the culture both of ancient and modern Sindh, with particular reference to Sindhi society and literature. The institute provides a repository of this knowledge in the form of a research-oriented center of learning.\n\nThe history of the institute goes back to the establishment of the Sindhi Academy in 1962 by the University of Sindh. The objective was to develop a facility to archive books, manuscripts, and research papers from past and present. Another objective was to promote and publish research about Sindh in the Sindhi language in addition to other languages such as Arabic, English, Persian and Urdu. The research was to be promoted in all Pakistani universities.\n\nThis was also the first time when Sindhology and its scholars were given well-deserved international attention.\n\nIn 1964, the nomenclature and the status of the Sindhi Academy were changed to the Institute of Sindhology to work on the similar patterns of Indology and Egyptology. The institute was to encourage further historical research on the Indus Valley Civilization as well as contemporary living in Sindh.\n\nThe institute was provided with a small room at the old campus of Sindh University in Hyderabad. On 10 December 1972 the foundation stone of the new building was laid just off the Super Highway in Jamshoro, adjacent to Indus river. The three-storey building, located 12 kilometers from Hyderabad and 150 km from Karachi was inaugurated in 1978. The construction is an amalgamation of the Islamic and Buddhist architectures. Internally, the building is decorated with local Hala tile-work, with two arms accommodating the Research Library and Administration Block. The central dome houses the Anthropological Research Centre (Museum), Art Gallery, Film and Photographic Sections and Audio-visual Section. In 2015 International children’s films festival was held in Sindhology.\n\nIn 1987, an extension was built in celebration of the institute's Silver Jubilee to house the Bookshop facilities. Over the years, institute has transformed itself into one of the leading research institutes in Pakistan.\n\nBeing affiliated with an academic institution (Sindh University), the institute contributes to the scientific research and academic studies in the subject of Sindhology. The first major initiative to bring he subject to international attention was a series of surveys to identify the sites of major anthropological and archaeological research across the province, carried out in cooperation with the Smithsonian Institution between 1967-71. There were also cooperations with UNESCO to explore the Sindhology aspects of the major Indus valley Civilization sites across Sindh. Research and academic scope of the institute have broadened since then. These and many other subsequent research contributions of the institute brought it to the list of internationally recognised research centres of the world.\n\nWithin the institute, the Anthropological Research Center and Sindh Arts Gallery is responsible for the maintenance of the museum. The centre provides attractions both for research scholars and general public. Artifacts on display in the museum represent the history and demography of the region. The collections contain archaeological material, wood-work, thread-work, metal-work, leather-work, pottery, jewellery, coins, armaments, photographs, and paintings that have been collected since the 1970s.\nThe museum space has been divided into various sections named as general, coins, archaeological, ethnological, ethno-musical, photographic, and Indus-painting galleries respectively. There is a special gallery devoted to prominent personalities that contains portraits of more than 175 eminent writers, scholars, educationists, social workers, Philanthropists, politicians, lawyers, freedom fighters, spiritual leaders and public figures. Special corners are devoted for people such as Quaid-e-Azam Muhammad Ali Jinnah, Allama I.I. Kazi, Hassan Ali Affendi, Pir Hussamuddin Rashdi, Syed Gulam Mustafa Shah, Muhammad Usman Diplai, and Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto. There are also and specific galleries for Benazir Bhutto and N.A Baloch, as well as Mir Talpur's Court.\n\nProminent artefacts include the harmonium on which Ahmed Ghulamali Chagla composed the National Anthem of Pakistan; the first Sindhi Typewriter, manufactured in 1926; and the statue of Rai Bahadur Odhoudas Chhabria, founder of Odhoudas Hospital of Shikarpur.\nThe work is ongoing for the collection, preservation and conservation of anthropological, historical and cultural objects and specimen. Field surveys are also conducted in villages and remote areas of Sindh to access the rare articles.\n\nThe ethno-musical gallery comprises sections on performing arts, sounds, and films.\n\nSindhi music with its original form and rhythm has withstood the test of time. Especially, the Sindhi folk tunes continue to enrich the traditions and customs of the people of rural areas and attracts the attention of urban dwellers. This aspects makes the Sindhi music research and preservation an integral part of the regional cultural heritage. Hence, the Institute of Sindhology has devised innovative ways to preserve this.\n\nThe special unit of the institute visits remote villages, recording the various items of Sindhi music, folklore, folk tales and tunes played on local musical instruments. The collection has been gradually growing, and is made available on tapes and cassettes in its original form and shape.\n\nThe institute boasts a research library with many corners named after prominent Sindhi scholars. The Research section of the library continues to archive and document the regional heritage. The work started with compilation and publication of catalogues, bibliographies, directories and periodical literature. This resulted in the development of a directory of Sindhi writers; a source book on prominent personalities of Sindh; and, a bibliography of Sindhi books. The library archives have served as primary sources for many of the prominent publications on Sindhi culture.\n\nAs the institute is mainly concerned with the culture and civilization of Sindh through the ages, a special Bureau of Production, Publication and Translation has been set up to highlight significant achievements through publications. More than 185 books have been published in Sindhi, English, Urdu, Arabic and Punjabi languages. The publication of research work keeps special focus on various aspects of Sindh. There are also two Bi-annual journals in published in English and Sindhi languages under the titles of \"Sindhological Studies\" and \"Sindhi Adab\" (Sindhi literature) respectively. Some of the major publications are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21299101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21299101", "title": "Intercultural Open University Foundation", "text": "Intercultural Open University Foundation\n\nThe Intercultural Open University Foundation (IOUF) is an international non-profit charitable organization that provides distance learning courses to master's and PhD students. IOUF offers dual degree programs in association with Universidad Azteca and its partner the Universidad Central de Nicaragua (UCN). Upon successful completion of the course, students are awarded with the Doctor of Philosophy, PhD degree in consortium with UAzteca and UCN.\n\nThe faculty and staff of IOUF contribute their time on a volunteer basis. To promote the higher education in developing countries, a limited number of scholarships are provided. The scholarship program was begun by the founders of the Intercultural Open University Foundation, Jan R. Hakemulder and Fay A.C. DeJonge. Jan Hakemulder was an academician who worked on the development programs designed to help the world's poor as an educational consultant for UNICEF. He and his wife, Fay A.C. DeJonge wrote about many subjects such as journalism, the media and ethics, alternative education, distance education and peace and non-violence studies.\n\nThe Intercultural Open University Foundation is registered as a non-profit foundation in the United States and maintains offices in Arden, Delaware and Granada, Spain. Although it originally obtained registration as a foundation in the Netherlands, it no longer maintains offices in that country, having transferred its European headquarters to Spain in August, 2011, but it still remains registered as a Dutch juridical person. The use of Information and communications technology in IOUF has been assessed and validated by the European Commission's HEXTLEARN Peer Review and Study. IOUF is a member of international educational organizations such as European Distance and E-learning Network (EDEN), European Foundation for Quality in e-Learning (EFQUEL).\n\nAs a charitable foundation, IOUF is an independent legal entity with a stated mission of serving the public interest through higher education and research. Its status as a not-for-profit organization confers favorable tax status on activities undertaken in pursuit of Foundation goals.\n\nThe Intercultural Open University Foundation was established in 1981 by Jan R. Hakemulder. During his tenure as an educational advisor with UNESCO in Africa, Jan and his wife Fay A.C. DeJonge, convened a meeting of Dutch, German and English professors at Bosk House in Opeinde, Netherlands. After this meeting, the group decided to provide distributed educational programs focused on the social subjects to students around the world, the Intercultural Open University Foundation was the result.\n\nThe Foundation was the subject of controversy when John Bear, a writer on educational institutions, questioned its status. The Foundation also came under attack in 2008 when CIMEA, the Italian Information Centre on Academic Mobility and Equivalence, claimed it had \"dubious professors with dubious credentials that somehow (connected it) to UNESCO.\" CIMEA subsequently posted a letter from the Foundation's President, Board of Governors and Faculty protesting the reference.\n\nIn 2007, Skepsis, a Dutch magazine which aims to debunk pseudoscience, published an article stating that the founders of the Intercultural Open University Foundation held PhD degrees from distance learning institutions. The article also stated that the Foundation awarded degrees in India for about 250 Euros while charging 8000 Euros for students from developed countries as a part of the \"Robin Hood strategy: what the rich pay too much, is given to the less fortunate.\" by the Hakemulders. The author stated that he doubted that the professors of the IOUF could legally bear the legally protected Dutch title doctor (dr.).\n\nIOUF Founder and President Jan Hakemulder died in August, 2008. After his death, the IOUF Board of Governors appointed Sandra Hurlong as the interim President of the Foundation. From the estate of Jan Hakemulder, an endowment was established to fund the institution. In August 2009, the IOUF announced Dr. Hurlong as the appointed President. Under her direction, the Foundation shifted its focus to graduate dual degrees programs exclusively.\n\nIn October 2011, IOUF signed an academic co-operation agreement with the Universidad Azteca (UAzteca). According to the agreement upon successful completion of the program, IOUF PhD students will be awarded an international double degree offered jointly by the Universidad Azteca and its partner, the Universidad Central de Nicaragua (UCN).\n\nThe Intercultural Open University Foundation is a member of:\n\nOther Affiliations Include:\n\nIntercultural Open University Foundation offers programs in Social Science, Environmental Science, Health Science, Psychology, Sociology, Anthropology, International Business Management, Social Change, Education for Sustainable Development, Religious Studies.\n\nFaculty:\n\n\nGraduates:\n\n"}
{"id": "8939020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8939020", "title": "International School of Information Science", "text": "International School of Information Science\n\nThe International School of Information Science (ISIS) in Alexandria, Egypt was founded to initiate, develop, carry out and promote research and development of activities and projects related to building a universal digital library. ISIS was also created in order to maximize creativity and foster innovations within the Bibliotheca Alexandrina. The Institute develops IT projects that will ultimately contribute to the knowledge capacity of Egypt and the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40623801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40623801", "title": "Jacques Theeuwes", "text": "Jacques Theeuwes\n\nJacobus A.M. (Jacques) Theeuwes (born 17 April 1944) is a Dutch economist, accountant, consultant and Emeritus Professor of Business economics at the Eindhoven University of Technology, known for his contributions to the fields of Management Accounting en Operations Management.\n\nBorn in Rijen where his father Nico Theeuwes was accountant, Theeuwes studied at the Tilburg University, where he received his MA in Economics in 1966, and in 1968 became certified public accountant. Later in his career in 1985 he also received his PhD at the Eindhoven University of Technology with a thesis entitled \"Voorzien van informatie : methoden voor informatiebeleidsvorming en informatieplanning\" (Information supply: Methods for information policy and planning information) under supervision of Theo Bemelmans.\n\nIn 1968 he started his academic career as faculty member at the Department of Economics at the Tilburg University. In 1970 he moved to the Department of Technology Management of the Eindhoven University of Technology. In 1986 he was appointed Professor of Business economics, specifically the Economic Appreciation of Administrative Information Management, where in 2003 he retired. Among his PhD students where Marc Wouters, Michael Corbey, Ed Vosselman, and Peter Verdaasdonk.\n\nTheeuwes has been consultant, and has chaired the Department of Business Economics and Marketing of the Eindhoven University of Technology for many years. He member of the editorial board of the \"Maandblad voor Accountancy en Bedrijfseconomie\" and the journal \"Bedrijfskunde\".\n\nBooks, a selection:\n\nArticles, a selection:\n\n"}
{"id": "38078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38078", "title": "Jagiellonian University", "text": "Jagiellonian University\n\nThe Jagiellonian University (Polish: \"Uniwersytet Jagielloński\"; Latin: \"Universitas Iagellonica Cracoviensis\", also known as the University of Kraków) is a research university in Kraków, Poland.\n\nFounded in 1364 by Casimir III the Great, the Jagiellonian University is the oldest university in Poland, the second oldest university in Central Europe, and one of the oldest surviving universities in the world. Notable alumni include, among others, mathematician and astronomer Nicolaus Copernicus, poet Jan Kochanowski, Polish king John III Sobieski, constitutional reformer Hugo Kołłątaj, chemist Karol Olszewski, anthropologist Bronisław Malinowski, writer Stanisław Lem and the President of Poland Andrzej Duda. Among its students who did not earn a diploma were also Karol Wojtyła, future Pope John Paul II (studying Polish philology for one year), and Nobel laureates Ivo Andrić and Wisława Szymborska.\n\nThe campus of the Jagiellonian University is centrally located within the city of Kraków. The university consists of fifteen faculties, including the humanities, law, the natural and social sciences, and medicine. The university employs roughly 4,000 academics, and has more than 40,000 students who study in some 80 disciplines. More than half of the student body are women. The language of instruction is usually Polish, although several degrees are offered in either German or English. The university library is one of Poland's largest, and houses several medieval manuscripts, including Copernicus' \"De Revolutionibus\".\n\nDue to its history, the Jagiellonian University is traditionally considered Poland's most reputable institution of higher learning, this standing equally being reflected in international rankings. The Jagiellonian University is a member of the Coimbra Group and Europaeum.\n\nIn 2018, \"Times Higher Education\" ranked the university within the 601–800 band globally.\n\nIn the mid-14th century, King Casimir III the Great realised that the nation needed a class of educated people, especially lawyers, who could codify the country's laws and administer the courts and offices. His efforts to found an institution of higher learning in Poland were rewarded when Pope Urban V granted him permission to set up a university in Kraków. A royal charter of foundation was issued on 12 May 1364, and a simultaneous document was issued by the City Council granting privileges to the \"Studium Generale\". The King provided funding for one chair in liberal arts, two in Medicine, three in Canon Law and five in Roman Law, funded by a quarterly payment taken from the proceeds of the royal monopoly on the salt mines at Wieliczka.\n\nDevelopment of the University of Kraków stalled upon the death of King Casimir, its founder, and lectures were held in various places across the city, including, amongst others, in professors' houses, churches and in the cathedral school on the Wawel Hill. It is believed that, in all likelihood, the construction of a building to house the \"Studium Generale\" began on Plac Wolnica in what is today the district of Kazimierz.\n\nAfter a period of disinterest and lack of funds, the institution was restored in the 1390s by King Władysław II Jagiełło and his wife Saint Hedwig, the daughter of King Louis of Hungary and Poland. The royal couple decided that, instead of building new premises for the university, it would be better to buy an existing edifice; it was thus that a building on Żydowska Street, which had previously been the property of the Pęcherz family, was found and acquired in 1399. The Queen donated all of her personal jewelry to the university, allowing it to enroll 203 students. The faculties of astronomy, law and theology attracted eminent scholars: for example, John Cantius, Stanisław of Skarbimierz, Paweł Włodkowic, Jan of Głogów, and Albert Brudzewski, who from 1491 to 1495 was one of Nicolaus Copernicus' teachers. The university was the first university in Europe to establish independent chairs in Mathematics and Astronomy. This rapid expansion in the university's faculty necessitated the purchase of larger premises in which to house them; it was thus that the building known today as the \"Collegium Maius\", with its quadrangle and beautiful arcade, came into being towards the beginning of the 15th century. The \"Collegium Maius\"' qualities, many of which directly contributed to the sheltered, academic atmosphere at the university, became widely respected, helping the university establish its reputation as a place of learning in Central Europe.\n\nFor several centuries, virtually the entire intellectual elite of Poland were educated at the university, where they enjoyed particular royal favour, often being provided with game from the royal hunt to satisfy their needs at mealtime. Whilst it was, and largely remains, Polish students who make up the greater part of the university's student body, it has, over its long history, educated thousands of foreign students from countries such as Lithuania, Russia, Hungary, Bohemia, Germany, and Spain. During the second half of the 15th century, over 40 percent of students came from outside the Kingdom of Poland.\nThe first chancellor of the University was Piotr Wysz, and the first professors were Czechs, Germans and Poles, many of them trained at the Charles University in Prague in Bohemia. By 1520 Greek philology was introduced by Constanzo Claretti and Wenzel von Hirschberg; Hebrew was also taught. At this time, the \"Collegium Maius\" comprised seven reading rooms, six of which were named for the great ancient scholars: Aristotle, Socrates, Plato, Galen, Ptolemy and Pythagoras. Furthermore, it was during this period that the faculties of Law, Medicine, Theology and Philosophy were established in their own premises; two of these buildings, the \"Collegium Iuridicum\" and \"Collegium Minus\", survive to this day. The golden era of the University of Kraków took place during the Polish Renaissance, between 1500 and 1535, when it was attended by 3,215 students in the first decade of the 16th century, and it was in these early years that the foundations for the Jagiellonian Library were set, with the addition of a library floor to the \"Collegium Maius\". The library's original rooms, in which all books were chained to their cases in order to prevent theft, are no longer used as such. However, they are still occasionally opened to host visiting lecturers' talks.\n\nAs the university's popularity, along with that of the ever more provincial Kraków's, declined in later centuries, the number of students attending the university also fell and, as such, the attendance record set in the early 16th century was not again surpassed until the late 18th century. This phenomenon was recorded as part of a more general economic and political decline seen in the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, which was suffering from the effects of poor governance and the policies of hostile neighbours at the time. In fact, despite a number of expansion projects during the late 18th century, many of the university's buildings had fallen into disrepair and were being used for a range of other purposes; in the university's archives there is one entry which reads: 'Nobody lives in the building, nothing happens there. If the lecture halls underwent refurbishment they could be rented out to accommodate a laundry'. This period thus represents one of the darkest periods in the university's history and is almost certainly the one during which the closure of the institution seemed most imminent.\n\nAfter the third partition of Poland in 1795 and the ensuing Napoleonic Wars, Kraków became a free city under the protection of the Austrian Empire; this, however, was not to last long. In 1846, after the Kraków Uprising, the city and its university became part of the Austrian Empire. The Austrians were in many ways hostile to the institution and, soon after their arrival, removed many of the furnishings from the \"Collegium Maius\"' \"Auditorium Maximum\" in order to convert it into a grain store. However, the threat of closure of the University was ultimately dissipated by \"Kaiser\" Ferdinand I of Austria's decree to maintain it. By the 1870s the fortunes of the university had improved so greatly that many scholars had returned. The liquefaction of nitrogen and oxygen was successfully demonstrated by professors Zygmunt Wróblewski and Karol Olszewski in 1883. Thereafter the Austrian authorities took on a new role in the development of the university and provided funds for the construction of a number of new buildings, including the neo-gothic \"Collegium Novum\", which opened in 1887. It was, conversely, from this building that in 1918 a large painting of \"Kaiser\" Franz Joseph was removed and destroyed by Polish students advocating the reestablishment of an independent Polish state.\n\nFor the 500th anniversary of the university's foundation, a monument to Copernicus was placed in the quadrangle of the \"Collegium Maius\"; this statue is now to be found in the direct vicinity of the \"Collegium Novum\", outside the \"Collegium Witkowskiego\", to where it was moved in 1953. Nevertheless, it was in the Grzegórzecka and the Kopernika areas that much of the university’s expansion took place up to 1918; during this time the \"Collegium Medicum\" was relocated to a site just east of the centre, and was expanded with the addition of a number of modern teaching hospitals – this 'medical campus' remains to this day. By the late 1930s the number of students at the university had increased dramatically to almost six thousand. Now a major centre for education in the independent Republic of Poland, the university attained government support for the purchase of building plots for new premises, as a result of which a number of residencies were built for students and professors alike. However, of all the projects begun during this era, the most important would have to be the creation of the Jagiellonian Library. The library's monumental building, construction of which began in 1931, was finally completed towards the end of the interwar period, which allowed the university's many varied literary collections to be relocated to their new home by the outbreak of war in 1939.\n\nOn November 6, 1939, following the Nazi invasion of Poland, 184 professors were arrested and deported to Sachsenhausen concentration camp during an operation codenamed \"Sonderaktion Krakau\". The university, along with the rest of Poland's higher and secondary education, was closed for the remainder of World War II. Despite the university's reopening after the cessation of hostilities in 1945, the new government of Poland was hostile to the teachings of the pre-war university and the faculty was suppressed by the Communists in 1954. By 1957 the Polish government decided that it would invest in the establishment of new facilities near Jordan Park and expansion of other smaller existing facilities. Sadly, as was typical for the period, construction work proved slow and many of the stated goals were never achieved; it was this poor management and disregard for the university's future that eventually led a number of scholars to openly criticise the government for its apparent lack of interest in educational development. On the other hand, a number of new buildings, such as the \"Collegium Biologicum\", were built with funds from the legacy of Ignacy Paderewski.\n\nBy 1991 Poland had thrown off its Communist government and in that same year the Jagiellonian University successfully completed the purchase of its first building plot in Pychowice, Kraków, where, from 2000, construction of a new complex of university buildings, the so-called Third Campus, began; its completion is currently planned for 2015. The new campus, officially named the '600th Anniversary Campus', is being developed hand in hand with the new LifeScience Park, which is managed by the Jagiellonian Centre for Innovation, the university's research consortium. Public funds earmarked for the project amounted to 946.5 million zlotys, or 240 million euros. Poland's entry into the European Union in 2004 has proved instrumental in improving the fortunes of the Jagiellonian University, which has seen huge increases in funding from both central government and European authorities, allowing it to develop new departments, research centres and better support the work of its students and academics.\n\nThe Jagiellonian University maintains an academic partnership with Heidelberg University, Germany's oldest university. In particular, there are close ties between both Heidelberg's and Kraków's law schools. In conjunction with Heidelberg and Johannes Gutenberg University of Mainz, the Jagiellonian University offers specializations in German law.\n\nIn the English-speaking world, the Jagiellonian University has international partnerships, among others, with the University of Cambridge, the University of Melbourne, the University of Chicago, and the University of California, Los Angeles. In the French-speaking world, partners include the Sorbonne, and the University of Montpellier. Other cooperation agreements exist with Charles University Prague, the University of Vienna, the University of Tokyo, Saint Petersburg State University, the Technical University of Munich, and the Free University of Berlin.\n\nThe university's main library, the Jagiellonian Library (\"Biblioteka Jagiellońska\"), is one of Poland's largest, with almost 6.5 million volumes; it is a constituent of the Polish National Libraries system. It is home to a world-renowned collection of medieval manuscripts, which includes Copernicus' \"De Revolutionibus\" and the \"Balthasar Behem Codex\". The library also has an extensive collection of underground political literature (so-called \"drugi obieg\" or \"samizdat\") from Poland's period of Communist rule between 1945 and 1989.\n\nThe beginning of the Jagiellonian Library is traditionally considered the same as that of the entire university – in 1364; however, instead of having one central library it had several smaller branches at buildings of various departments (the largest collection was in \"Collegium Maius\", where works related to theology and liberal arts were kept). After 1775, during the reforms of Komisja Edukacji Narodowej, which established the first Ministry of Education in the world, various small libraries of the University were formally centralised into one public collection in \"Collegium Maius\". During the partitions of Poland, the library continued to grow thanks to the support of such people as Karol Józef Teofil Estreicher and Karol Estreicher. Its collections were made public in 1812. Since 1932, it has been recognised as a legal deposit library, comparable to the Bodleian Library at the University of Oxford or Cambridge University Library or Trinity College Library in Dublin, and thus has the right to receive a copy of any book issued by Polish publishers within Poland. In 1940, the library finally obtained a new building of its own, which has subsequently been expanded on two occasions, most recently in 1995–2001. During the Second World War, library workers cooperated with underground universities. Since the 1990s, the library's collection has become increasingly digitised.\n\nIn addition to the Jagiellonian Library, the university maintains a large medical library (\"Biblioteka Medyczna\") and many other subject specialised libraries in its various faculties and institutes. Finally, the collections of the university libraries' collections are enriched by the presence of the university's archives, which date back to the university's own foundation and record the entire history of its development up to the present day.\n\n\nThe university is divided into 15 faculties which have different organisational sub-structures which partly reflect their history and partly their operational needs. Teaching and research at UJ is organised by faculties, which may include a number of other institutions:\n\n\nAs of 2008, the university has 52,445 students (including 1,612 degree students from abroad) and 3,657 academic staff. About 1,130 international non-degree students were enrolled in 2007. Programmes of study are offered in 48 disciplines and 93 specialisations. The university has an exchange programme with The Catholic University of America and its Columbus School of Law. It also hosts a \"semester-abroad\" programme with the University of Wisconsin-Stevens Point and the University of Guelph.\n\nIn 1851, the university's first student scientific association was founded. Now, over 70 student scientific associations exist at the Jagiellonian University. Usually, their purpose is to promote students' scientific achievements by organizing lecture sessions, science excursions, and international student conferences, such as the International Workshop for Young Mathematicians, which is organized by the Zaremba Association of Mathematicians.\n\nThe links below provide further information on student activities at the Jagiellonian:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28261681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28261681", "title": "List of schools in Bogotá", "text": "List of schools in Bogotá\n\nThis is a list of schools in Bogotá, Colombia:\n\nLiceo de Colombia (Bilingue)\n"}
{"id": "5183125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5183125", "title": "Lunch lady", "text": "Lunch lady\n\nLunch lady is an American term for a woman who cooks and serves food in a school cafeteria. The equivalent British English term is \"dinner lady\" and is sometimes called a cafeteria lady. Sometimes, a lunch lady also patrols the school playgrounds during the lunch breaks to help maintain order.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35716138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35716138", "title": "MITx", "text": "MITx\n\nMITx is the massive open online course (MOOC) program at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. A constituent program of MIT’s Office of Digital Learning, MITx produces MOOCs from MIT departments and faculty that appear on the edX platform. MITx also supports residential experiments with scalable learning technologies and research on digital learning. MOOCs offered through edX by MITx are open-enrollment and free to take. In September 2012, edX and MITx introduced the option to receive an ID verified certificate on some courses.\n\nThe MITx program was announced on December 19, 2011 and originally included three components: 1) development and offering of massive open online courses, 2) research on the effectiveness of emerging digital learning tools, and 3) the development of an open source platform for offering massive open online courses. Initial course and platform development for MITx was undertaken under the direction of Professor Anant Agarwal in the MIT Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Lab (CSAIL).\n\nOn May 3, 2012, the open platform component was spun off into edX, a non-profit co-owned by MIT and Harvard and charged with platform development and the creation of a consortium of leading institutions offering MOOCs. Professor Agarwal was named the first president of edX.\n\nOn November 20, 2012, the MITx program was placed organizationally within the newly created MIT Office of Digital Learning, which would also eventually include three other MIT organizations: MIT OpenCourseWare, the Office of Educational Innovation and Technology, and Academic Media Production Services. Materials Science professor Sanjay Sarma was named MIT’s Director of Digital Learning and Computer Science professor Isaac Chuang was named Associate Director of Digital Learning.\n\nMITx has one of the largest offerings of MOOCs through the edX platform. On September 17, 2013, MITx announced the first of its XSeries Certificate programs, which offer recognition for the completion of a series of related MOOC courses. Current XSeries include Supply Chain Management, Education Technology and Aerodynamics. \n\nIn 2016, MITx launched a new Micromasters credential in Supply Chain Management. The MicroMasters in Supply Chain from MIT is an advanced, professional, graduate-level foundation in Supply Chain Management. It represents the equivalent of 1 semester's worth of coursework at MIT. To earn a Micromaster's credential, learners must complete a sequence of 5 MOOCs, followed by a comprehensive capstone exam.\n\n"}
{"id": "53701937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53701937", "title": "Miguel Vila Luna", "text": "Miguel Vila Luna\n\nMiguel Eduardo \"Micky\" Vila Luna (July 7, 1943 – April 1, 2005) was an architect and painter from the Dominican Republic. Miguel Vila Luna was born in Santiago de los Caballeros, Dominican Republic on July 7, 1943. His parents were Ramón Vila Piola (who led a revolt against dictator Rafael Leónidas Trujillo Molina alongside Juan Isidro Jimenes Grullón in 1934) and Ana Gregoria Luna. Vila was an individual linked to design, to aspects of decorative comfort, to pictorial work, but from the training of architecture and above all, in cultivated sensitivity that formed in the roots of his family life. After his early training in painting with Rafael Arzeno, he took up an artistic career at an art course at the University of Puerto Rico and graduated as an architect at the Catholic University of America in Washington D.C. He also attended the American University and the École Américaine des Beaux-Arts in the Palais de Fontainebleau in France. He died in April 1, 2005 in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic.\n\nMiguel Vila Luna was officially introduced during the so-called \"twelve years of Balaguer\", from 1966 to 1978, which mark the Dominican territory an unavoidable stage in the development of national architecture and urbanism. Joaquín Balaguer, former president of the country, was able to choose well, at this stage, his architects. The list of outstanding projects designated for several specific architects is long and plentiful. Miguel Vila led a new style among Dominican professionals, in which he dedicated himself to the discipline of including landscaping in buildings. After Balaguer's two reelections, his control over the architecture was reduced. In addition, the interactional architectural scene changes drastically. A new generation of postmodernity arises including architects such as Miguel Vila, Plácido Piña, Teófilo Carbonell, Angel Giudicelli, Oscar Imbert, Gustavo Luis \"Cuquito\" Moré, Tácito Cordero, among others.\n\nIn those years, Miguel Vila, with his unequaled leadership among the youngest architects, produced a series of private works that imposed part of the aesthetic guidelines of postmodernism. Vila, whose work began in the early 1970s under the laws of modern architecture, gradually penetrated the study of regional architecture to his enthusiastic attachment of historicist architecture, from where he developed multiple proposals that produced a whole environment of innovations in the national scenario. Convinced of the aesthetic strength of architecture as a key element for a better quality of life, Miguel Vila developed particular work for space and formal capacities, which was advanced for his era. This became references for the architects of the period which reproduced his criteria of integrating architecture with the exterior. The sequence, spatial categorization, and wealth of decorative resources were set by Vila as motivators for the coexistence. His treatment of the walls in which he rejected the edges and framed the gaps were part of his language, which was used for a whole generation. His followers became, later, protagonists of architecture committed to tropical solutions. \nSince its inauguration, Casa de Campo, Dominican Republic has undergone significant changes in its original concept of architecture. The designs of Miguel Vila, Roberto Copa, William Cox, Rafael Eduardo Selman, Jose Horacio Marranzini and his son Alejandro have been important in its development.\n\nIn 1963, his pictorial works appeared in the XI National Biennial. In 1979, Micky recorded his first exhibition which was held in Paris, in the \"Ives Brun\" gallery. He headed a movement with the poet Manuel Antonio Rueda González that offered the following traits: a plurality of readings of the work, active participation in the spectator's interpretation, inseparability of color and form, integration of universal and local elements, and motivations to the plastic and psycho-philosophies. His artistic movement of futurism was rich in followers. His works resemble futurism and are bountiful in brilliant compositions of color and movement.\n"}
{"id": "6992029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6992029", "title": "NCERT textbook controversies", "text": "NCERT textbook controversies\n\nThe National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) is an apex resource organisation set up by the Government of India to assist and advise the central and state governments on academic matters related to school education.\nThe model textbooks published by the Council for adoption by school systems across India have generated controversies over the years. They have been accused of reflecting the political views of the party in power in the Government of India. In particular, during the years of the Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled governments, they were accused of\n\"saffronising\" Indian history (i.e., reflecting Hindu nationalist views) and engaging in historical revisionism.\n\nThe NCERT has been avoiding mentioning that most of the Indian subcontinent was ruled by the Marathas before the British East India Company conquered it in History books in India according to historian Sadanand More.\n\nThe National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) was established in 1961 by the Government of India by combining a number of existing organisations. It is an autonomous body in principle. However, it is Government-funded and its Director is appointed by the Ministry of Human Resource Development (formerly Ministry of Education). In practice, the NCERT has operated as a semi-official organisation promoting a \"State-sponsored\" educational philosophy.\n\nIn the early 1960s, national integration and unifying the various communities of India became a major concern to the Government. Education was seen as an important vehicle for the emotional integration of the nation. The Minister of Education M. C. Chagla was concerned that the textbooks in history should not recite myths but be secular and rational explanations of the past. A committee on history education was established with the membership of Tara Chand, Nilakanta Sastri, Mohammad Habib, Bisheshwar Prasad, B. P. Saxena and P. C. Gupta, which commissioned a number of history textbooks to be authored by the leading historians. Romila Thapar's \"Ancient India\" for class VI was published in 1966, \"Medieval India\" for class VII in 1967. A number of other books, Ram Sharan Sharma's \"Ancient India\", Satish Chandra's \"Medieval India\", Bipan Chandra's \"Modern India\" and Arjun Dev's \"India and the World\" were published in 1970's.\n\nThese texts were intended to be \"model\" textbooks which were \"modern and secular,\" free of communal bias and prejudice. However, Deepa Nair states that they also carried a \"Marxist imprint.\" The Marxist emphasis on social and economic issues implied a critique of culture and tradition. The value of spirituality was reduced. The Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru was sympathetic to the Marxist view of history and believed in a scientific outlook on civil society. In contrast, the Hindu nationalist historiography disagreed with Marxist historiography and based Indian history in the antiquity with glories of Hindu civilization and culture. These contrary views of history set the scene for conflict.\n\nThe textbooks faced political pressures from the inception. In 1969, a Parliamentary Consultative Committee wanted the textbook on \"Ancient India\" to state categorically that the \"Aryans\" were indigenous to India. But the demand was rejected by the Editorial Board as well as Thapar as the author. Further critical reactions came from Hindu and Sikh religious organisations that their respective religions and religious leaders had not been glorified. The Hindu Mahasabha and Arya Samaj claimed that the mention of beef-eating in ancient times went counter to the religious sentiments of the \"Hindu nationality.\"\n\nSuch controversies continue till today. The controversy centers around the charges of an attempted \"saffronised\" rewriting of Indian history (i.e., making lessons consonant with the Hindutva). Allegations of historical revisionism with a Hindu nationalist agenda arose in two periods: under the Janata Party government 1977 to 1980 and again under the Bharatiya Janata Party government from 1998 to 2004. In 2012, the organization has been blamed for attempting to insult the government by publishing 'offensive' cartoons in its textbooks.\n\nThree months into the Janata Party government headed by Morarji Desai, the Prime Minister was handed an anonymous memorandum by Nanaji Deshmukh, former Jana Sangh leader and general secretary of the Janata Party, which targeted the NCERT textbooks. The books criticised were Thapar's \"Medieval India\" and Bipan Chandra's \"Modern India\", along with two other books, \"Freedom Struggle\" by Tripathi, De and Chandra, and \"Communalism and the Writing of Indian History\" by Thapar, Mukhia and Chandra. (Only the first two were NCERT textbooks.) The Prime Minister forwarded the memorandum to the Education Minister suggesting that the books be withdrawn from circulation. In August 1977, R. S. Sharma's \"Ancient India\" was published, which was also targeted. The books were said to be \"anti-Indian and anti-national\" in content and \"prejudicial to the study of history.\" The main issues seemed to be that they were not sufficiently critical of certain Muslim invaders during the medieval period and that they emphasized the role of leaders like Tilak and Aurobindo in the development of Hindu-Muslim antagonisms. The Hindu nationalist Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh launched a separate campaign against the books in its magazine \"Organiser\".\n\nThe memorandum got leaked and a public debate ensued, which ran till 1979. The authors of the books argued for the legitimacy of independent interpretations as long as they were based on reliable evidence. The most hotly contested issue in the 1977 to 1979 controversy was the depiction of Mughal era (Muslim ruled) India and the role of Islam in India. Romila Thapar's \"Medieval India\" was criticised for being too sympathetic to Muslim viewpoints and for showing too little enthusiasm for Hindu heritage. In November 1977, a committee of reputable historians was asked to examine the textbooks, which supported their continuance. Nonetheless, the government passed an act in July 1978, withdrawing R. S. Sharma's \"Ancient India\" from the syllabus of the Central Board of Secondary Education.\n\nIn the course of the controversy, both sides became deeply suspicious of the other's motivations, contributing to the intensification of Indian \"communalism\" and leaving resentments that were to resurface in the renewed controversy under BJP rule twenty years later.\n\nIn 2002, under the NDA government spearheaded by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) the government made an attempt at changing the NCERT school textbooks through a new National Curriculum Framework. Marxist historians raised objections to the new curriculum, claiming \"saffronisation\" of education by allegedly raising the profile of Hindu cultural norms, views and historical personalities in school textbooks. The BJP opined that their only goal was to overhaul the stagnant and saturated institutions like NCERT and free them from the alleged dynastic control and hegemony of the Indian National Congress and the Communists. Party members also opined that their goal was not to promote sectarianism, but present a more accurate picture of Indian history and Indian culture (such as Vedic science), which was being downplayed by the left wing ideologues.\n\nThe NDA was defeated in the elections of 2004 and the new UPA government pledged to \"de-saffronise\" textbooks and curricula nationwide and restore the secular character of education. In March, the UPA Government released new NCERT textbooks, based on the texts used before the controversial 2002 updates. The Ministry of Human Resource Development, which oversaw this project, stated that it had made only minor modifications to the books that predated the \"saffronised\" era. In Delhi, the Directorate of Education, in collaboration with the State Council of Educational Research and Training, prepared 47 new textbooks, and other state governments were expected to do likewise. In June 2004, a panel, composed of J. S. Grewal, Barun De and S. Settar, was constituted by the NCERT to review the new textbooks. This panel suggested that the textbooks that were being used in school syllabuses had poor content, were presented shoddily, and contained significant amounts of irrelevant information. The panel recommended, to the Human Resource Development (HRD) minister, that the new books not be used until the defects could be resolved. This led the Delhi students to use textbooks that were used in school syllabuses from the pre-\"saffronised\" period.\n\nPress reports indicated that the rush to \"de-saffronise\" school texts resulted in Urdu versions not being ready for the academic year, which began in April. The reports asserted that this failure hurt Urdu-speaking students by depriving them of needed textbooks. The NCERT denied the claims. \n\nThe UPA and previous Congress-led governments have been accused by the BJP, the dominant Hindutva party, of revising history to present a Marxist bias, and whitewashing the record of Muslim \"atrocities\" to acquire Muslim votes.\n\nAmendments were made in history textbook for Class XII in lessons on Sikhism after protest from Sikh organisations in 2006. In 2012, there were protests for removal of controversial anti-hindi agitation and a Ambedkar cartoon.\n\nIn April 2012, The Republican Party of India (RPI) Athavale group demanded a ban on an eleventh grade text book by the NCERT saying a cartoon in the book insulted Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar. The book, which had been originally published in 2006, wasn't recognized as part of the syllabus until 2012. On 2 April, Ramdas Athavale held a press conference and burnt copies of the page from the textbook prescribed in the political science syllabus. Athavale demanded the resignation of Union Minister for Human Resource Development Kapil Sibal who also was the president of the NCERT board. RPI workers burnt his effigy. The cartoon figures on page 18 of chapter one titled \"Constitution, why and how\" in the book called \"Indian Constitution at Work\". It shows Ambedkar sitting on a snail which is labelled ‘Constitution' cracking a whip. Behind him is Pandit Nehru, also shown with a whip. The caption says: \"Cartoonist's impression of the ‘snail's pace' with which the Constitution was made. Athavale said the cartoon insulted the architect of India's Constitution and the people responsible must be dealt with. The NCERT too had insulted him, he pointed out. The issue created uproar in both Houses of Parliament. NCERT chief advisors Yogendra Yadav and Suhas Palshikar resigned on Friday after the government issued an apology and promised to remove the cartoon. Speaking to reporters, Palshikar said it seemed like the government didn't have an option and therefore decided to agree with the protesting MPs. \"The caricature was a symbol of the progressive outlook in education. This has now been undone. We are of the opinion that as advisors we can have a different opinion. Hence, we don't think it's appropriate for us to be in this position anymore.\" Suhas Palshikar is a professor in the Department of Politics and Public Administration at the University of Pune.\n\nSoon after that controversy had been solved, the Shahi Imam of Fatehpuri Mosque, Mohd Mukarram Ahmed wrote to Kapil Sibal asking for the removal of a medieval painting of Archangel Gabriel and another of pilgrims at the Kaaba from the chapter 'The Central Islamic Lands' on the ground that they were against the Sharia law. The letter, dated 10 September 2012 has also been sent to Delhi Chief Minister Sheila Dikshit, education minister Kiran Walia and NCERT chief Parvin Sinclair. \"Jibril (Gabriel) is the chief angel who brought messages to the Prophet. The painting in the book is comical in its presentation of the Archangel. Secondly, the caption for the illustration on pilgrims at the Kaba states that they are 'touching' the stone even though it's customary to kiss it. But the Jibril painting is the most objectionable and will not be tolerated,\" said Ahmed in his letter. However, rejecting this, Najaf Haider, an associate professor at the Centre for Historical Studies at the Jawaharlal Nehru University said \"The Gabriel painting was sourced from a 13th century text called \"Ajaib-ul-Makhluqat\", written by a renowned scholar, Qazwini. The second illustration was taken from a 15th century collection of fragmented pieces. The letter only states the paintings are against Sharia and doesn't exactly point out what's objectionable about them. Moreover, these texts (from where the paintings are sourced) were written in Muslim courts by people who were far more scholarly and pious than anyone can claim to be today.\"\n\nIn 2006, a popular poem written by the Hindi poet Pash was included in the NCERT text book for 11th standard Hindi students. This poem was सबसे ख़तरनाक होता है हमारे सपनों का मर जाना (Sabse Khatarnak hota hai hamare sapnon ka mar jaana - meaning: \"The most dangerous thing is the demise of our dreams\"). However, in 2017, the Narendra Modi BJP government ordered the poem to be removed, in the fear that it could encourage Indians to protest against the injustice they saw around them. This led to controversy and protests, especially in the Hindi media. Ironically, the move made the poem even more popular, with it being spoken of in the media, uploaded by various people on you tube, and a popular FM radio station Radio Mirchi making a free downloadable caller tune of it.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5046955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5046955", "title": "Nancy Cole", "text": "Nancy Cole\n\nNancy Cole is an educational psychologist and expert on educational assessment. Cole is past president of the American Educational Research Association and the Educational Testing Service (ETS), and former Dean of Education at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. She earned her Ph.D. in psychology from the University of North Carolina. Her undergraduate education in psychology was at Rice University (B.A., 1964).\n\nCole co-authored \"Gender and Fair Assessment\" (Willingham & Cole, 1997), which is regarded as the most extensive study ever completed on gender and educational assessment. The study analyzed data from more than 400 assessments of over 15 million students.\n\nIn his book, \"Uneducated Guesses\", Howard Wainer refers to Cole's presidency of the ETS as \"disastrous\":, and criticizes the ETS's decision to rename the Scholastic Aptitude Test to the Scholastic Assessment Test, which he describes as \"redundant and virtually meaningless\". \n\nFairTest, the National Center for Fair and Open Testing reports that during this period, ETS \" ignored internal warnings about security problems in its computer adaptive Graduate Record Exam (GRE), according to documents recently made public in a U.S. district court...To protect its image and profits in the rush to introduce the new type of test into the marketplace, ETS also misled the New York State legislature about how the system actually worked...In fact, in her deposition, ETS President Nancy Cole admits it is now clear, in retrospect, that back in November of 1994, one or two good memorizers could have given a substantial advantage to a subsequent test-taker.\"\n\nWillingham, W. W., & Cole, N. S. (1997). \"Gender and fair assessment\". Mahwah, NJ, USA: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.\n\n"}
{"id": "3001275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3001275", "title": "New South Wales Teachers Federation", "text": "New South Wales Teachers Federation\n\nThe New South Wales Teachers Federation (also known simply as Federation) is the registered trade union that covers New South Wales (NSW) public school teachers. The New South Wales Teachers Federation represents all teachers in NSW public pre-schools, infants, primary and secondary schools and TAFE (technical and further education) Institutes. Teachers in Schools for Specific Purposes, Adult Migrant Education Service (AMES) and Corrective Services are also members.\n\nThe New South Wales Teachers Federation is affiliated to the Australian Education Union (AEU), the national union covering public school teachers in Australia and through that organisation to Education International and the Australian Council of Trade Unions. The New South Wales Teachers Federation is also affiliated to Unions New South Wales. The NSW Teachers Federation is not affiliated to any political party.\n\nThe New South Wales Teachers Federation is based at Surry Hills near the Sydney CBD. The union also has regional offices in Blacktown, Bathurst, Dubbo, Lismore, Newcastle, Port Macquarie, Queanbeyan, Tamworth, Wagga Wagga and Wollongong.\n\nThe membership includes about 41,000 full-time teachers, 15,000 casual and unemployed members, and 6,000 TAFE teachers. The total membership stands at about 67,000.\n\nThe state council of the union consists of approximately 300 locally elected delegates. The union's annual conference consists of approximately 600 delegates. The NSW Teachers Federation executive is elected by the state council.\n\nThe secretariat of the Federation is composed of 47 officers who are elected by the council for a three-year term. They perform such jobs as organiser, industrial advocate, welfare officer and research officer, supporting the Federation's membership.\n\nThe three Presidential officers – President, Deputy President, and Senior Vice-President – are elected by the whole membership every two years.\n\nThe NSW Teachers Federation looks after a multiplicity of issues on behalf of teachers. It is responsible for negotiating the salaries and working conditions of its members with the New South Wales government. The union is committed to the interests of public education, although its primary concern is salaries and working conditions of its members.\n\nStewart House is the official charity of the NSW Teachers Federation.\n\nThroughout its history, Federation has campaigned long and hard on issues affecting public education, teachers' salaries and teachers' working conditions, those issues which are at the heart of teaching as a profession in New South Wales.\n\nThe first Annual Conference of Federation in 1919 had listed as part of the agenda \"inadequacy of teachers' salaries, understaffing of schools, unwieldiness of classes, insufficiency of accommodation, conducting of classes in sheds, corridors and unsuitable rooms to the detriment of the health of teachers and pupils\". Other matters included \"unhealthy congestion of school population in overgrown suburban schools, as against decentralisation into schools with a maximum enrolment of one thousand, the high percentage of unclassified and insufficiently trained teachers, inadequacy of supervision by heads of departments owing to class duties and absence of schools for the mentally disabled\". Throughout this century, Federation has continued to campaign on these issues.\n\nIn the years immediately following its establishment, Federation was concerned to increase its membership. In 1920 the membership of the Federation was 5,600 or 78% of the total membership of the Department of Education. In 1996 membership is about 64,000. This number includes permanent full-time school, TAFE teachers, AMES teachers, part-time school, TAFE, AMES and casual teachers as well as those teachers in other associated groups.\n\nIt was not until 1937 that the first organiser was appointed, following an Annual Conference decision of 1936 that stated \"we are firmly of the opinion that, for a really effective increase in membership, it is necessary that some person be employed for the whole of their time organising the schools\". More officers were progressively appointed. There were 43 full-time administrative officers in 1996, who serviced the needs of the membership and undertook recruitment activities.\n\nIn 1961, 241,000 signatories for a National Education Petition were presented to the Prime Minister, Robert Menzies, calling for Commonwealth funding to state schools. This was the culmination of a long campaign begun in the 1940s, to encourage the Commonwealth Government to fund certain programs in State schools. To this day such programs are funded by the Commonwealth Government. This number of signatories was a record which was only broken in 1993 by a petition calling for private health insurance to be tax deductible.\n\nOver the years to 1968, the year of Federation's first general strike, the Union campaigned on the theme of \"United Action\", emphasising a community of interest between different sectors of the membership and the community, in policy development. Political, industrial and professional issues concerning public education were given focus and emphasis. There were significant advances – in 1946, for example, there was a major salaries breakthrough for teachers which gave the first realistic salary increases since 1920 and set the standard for other professional workers. The average gain was over 100 pounds for men and 80 pounds for women.\n\nThe federation made a major break with the past in 1968, its 50th anniversary, when the first statewide strike was called over the conditions in which teachers were working.\nSince the 1990s, the NSW Teachers Federation has campaigned to support public education in the face of rapidly expanding government funding for private schools. In partnership with parents and principals, the Teachers Federation has engaged in political lobbying and advertising in support of public schools.\n\n"}
{"id": "36923052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36923052", "title": "Prayner Conservatory of Music and Dramatic Arts in Vienna", "text": "Prayner Conservatory of Music and Dramatic Arts in Vienna\n\nThe Prayner Conservatory of Music and Dramatic Arts in Vienna licensed by the Austrian authorities founded in 1905, and has developed into one of the most well-known and historical conservatories in the city of Vienna. \n\nCurrently the conservatory offers undergraduate, graduate, and post-graduate degrees as well as offering adult education and pre-college education. Students of all levels can take voice or instrumental lessons, and have the opportunity to perform in the orchestra or choir. At the end of the study at Prayner Conservatory the students graduate an internationally recognized Austrian \"Artistic Diploma\" in the following by the Austrian authorities licensed fields of study: Piano, Singing, Violin, Violoncello, Viola, Double-Bass, Flute, Clarinet, Oboe, Bassoon, Trumped, Trombone, Horn, Tuba, Guitar, Harp, Accordion, Percussion Instruments as well as for Composition, Conducting, Accompanying classes, Chamber Music, Opera, and Orchestra Repertoire.\n\nConservatory's Center location includes two existing buildings on A-1040 Mühlgasse 28-30 and A-1060 Mariahilferstrasse 51 - with its historically significant facades and relatively sound structure.\n\nAmong the facility's highlights is the innovative utilization of the existing grand Ehrbarsaal with its elegant gilt columns and ornate ceiling as the audience chamber for the new Concert Hall, augmented by state-of-the-art performance amenities.\n\nThe Prayner Conservatory has more than a hundred teachers including Maksimiljan Cencic, Kroutikova Galina(Gal Rasche), Dr. Massimo Stefanizzi, Dr. Giorgi Latso, Josef Stolz, Valbona Naku, Filimon Ginalis, Alexandra Karastoyanova-Hermentin, Ulf-Dieter Soyka, Victoria Loukianetz, and Tymur Melnyk.\n\n"}
{"id": "28254779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28254779", "title": "Richard Sass", "text": "Richard Sass\n\nRichard Sass (1774 – 7 September 1849) (or Sasse) was an English landscape painter, etcher, and drawing master to royalty. He was the half brother of Henry Sass, the founder of Sass's Academy in London.\n\nSass exhibited at the Royal Academy in London from 1791 to 1813. He was appointed teacher in drawing to the Princess Charlotte, and later landscape painter to the Prince Regent. In 1825 he removed to Paris, where he spent the remainder of his life, altering his surname to \"Sasse\". He died there on 7 September 1849. He was survived by his wife Harriet (née Blake) who died in 1866, aged 76.\n\nSasse had some repute as a landscape-painter, especially in watercolours. In 1810 he published a series of etchings from picturesque scenery in Ireland, Scotland, and elsewhere.\n\n"}
{"id": "1887885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1887885", "title": "Romain Bussine", "text": "Romain Bussine\n\nRomain Bussine (1830–1899) was a French poet, baritone, and voice teacher who lived during the 19th century.\n\nIn 1871, together with Camille Saint-Saëns and Henri Duparc, he founded the Société Nationale de Musique as a forum for promoting contemporary French chamber and orchestral music. Later an argument over the performance of foreign works led to Saint-Saëns and Bussine resigning the joint presidency of the Société Nationale in 1886.\n\nGabriel Fauré set one of his poems as \"Après un rêve\" (\"After A Dream\"), op. 7, No. 1 (composed in 1877, published in 1878). The poem, based on an Italian poem titled \"Levati sol che la luna è levata,\" is a soliloquy about a rapturous dream of a passionate encounter to which the dreamer longs to return, even though the dream is a lie. Another setting by Fauré of a poem by Bussine is \"Sérénade Toscane\"; the poem is a fairly free version of a slightly sardonic Tuscan serenade.\n\nBussine worked for many years as a voice teacher at the Paris Conservatory. A baritone, he occasionally gave recitals and performed in concerts in Paris; although he was not a prolific performer. He notably sang the role of the High Priest in the first hearing of the second act of Saint-Saëns's \"Samson and Delilah\" in a private performance in 1870. Among his notable pupils were composers Guillaume Couture and Achille Fortier. He died in Paris.\n"}
{"id": "1518130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1518130", "title": "Sally Knyvette", "text": "Sally Knyvette\n\nSally Knyvette (born 9 February 1951) is a British actress, director and drama teacher.\n\nBorn Sally James in Horsham, West Sussex, the daughter of a doctor, Knyvette took acting lessons while running a French restaurant in the Kings Road, London, then acted in repertory theatre for seven years, acting mostly on stage, including playing Shakespeare roles.\n\nOn screen Knyvette is best known for her roles as Jenna Stannis in the first two seasons of the British science fiction series \"Blake's 7\", Kate Sugden in the soap opera \"Emmerdale\", and Nurse Rowland in the medical soap series \"General Hospital\". She later complained of her \"Blake's 7\" role that Jenna had \"started off as this really exciting, intergalactic space pirate, but then she became a sort of housewife on the Liberator\".\n\nHer other television appearances include \"The Sweeney\", \"Z-Cars\", \"Who Pays the Ferryman?\", \"Squadron\", \"The Bill\", \"Dalziel and Pascoe\", \"A Touch of Frost\", \"Casualty\", \"Holby City\", \"EastEnders\" and \"Coronation Street\".\n\nShe also voiced the part of Doctorman Allan in the \"Doctor Who\" audio adventure \"Spare Parts\" and that of Carmilla in the video game \"\" and its , developed by Mercury Steam. She voiced Emiliana Perfetti in the video game \"Layton's Mystery Journey\" developed by Level-5.\n\nAfter leaving \"Blake's 7\" Knyvette studied for an English and drama degree at the University of London. She lives in Fulham, west London.\n\n"}
{"id": "4827301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4827301", "title": "Space Night", "text": "Space Night\n\nSpace Night (full title: \"space night - All-tag nachts\") is the name of a German television program in the early night/morning hours each day. It is a mixture of chill-out-music and images of the earth as seen from space interspersed with informative broadcasts. It was started by the Bayerischer Rundfunk (BR) in 1994 and is now broadcast by ARD-alpha.\n\nThe Space Night's structure consists of several different sub-programs. In any given month, on any given weekday, the programs will be the same. In the next month, the programs will change, but again stay the same for the same weekdays. There are no broadcasts during Friday and Saturday nights.\n\nSpace Night itself does not have any opening or closing credits; only the sub-programs may do. You can recognize a program is part of Space Night in two ways:\n\nThe sub-programs are never all part of any single Space Night. Instead the programs from the beginning of a Space Night are repeated at the end, so that some episodes of a program may be broadcast twice during one Space Night. If a program would continue to run longer than the Space Night itself, it will be interrupted in the middle.\n\n\nSpace Night started in 1994 as a replacement of the test cards which were broadcast on BR at night \nuntil this time. The idea originated in the fact that the German satellite ASTRO-SPAS (see STS-80) had recorded many hours of video footage in space. The BR received this footage, edited the material and added downtempo spherical music.\n\nAs BR did not want to show the same pictures 7 days a week, both NASA and ESA as well as the German Aerospace Center were addressed. They offered more hours of footage from in and around space, which were thus included.\n\nThe broadcast quickly turned into a cult: At raves in the mid-90s it wasn't unusual to show the images of Space Night on big TV-screens. Early in the morning after the rave it was often used to calm down, especially from 1996 and later, as Space Night's sound changed through the musical guidance by Alex Azary (a European chill-out-DJ), who provided a more electronic background music. This was a logical step that originated from Alex Azary. He headed the Club XS in Frankfurt where \"chill out nights\" started in 1990, supported by spherical music. Alongside, pictures of Space Night were shown, albeit the playback was a little bit slower than in the original program. The images did fit well to the then new music-genre and Alex thought it would be a good idea to show it to the people at BR. A meeting in Munich followed where he could convince them to try something new.\n\nThe compositions are also available as separate CDs, the mixdown starting from the album \"Space Night II\" is done by the German music label Elektrolux. In the meantime, twelve CD-albums with music to the television series have been published, with three of those clearly differing in musical style. While \"Space Night Vol. 1\" is an album featuring pop music, \"Space Night Vol. 10\" features Jazz music and \"Space Night Vol. 12\" is a double CD with classical music. A DVD titled \"Best of Earth-Views\" is also available.\n\nAfter a change in tariffs by the GEMA, BR stated they would not want to continue Space Night starting in January 2013, due to the drastically increased royalties. Hence the series was ended on January 8, 2013. Numerous viewers engaged BR to continue Space Night by using GEMA-free music. The station decided to undo the cancellation, first by rerunning older episodes starting on February 25, 2013 and to later broadcast new episodes starting in autumn of 2013. To accomplish this, BR will use music with Creative Commons licensing, encouraging their viewer to upload their favorites.\n\nThe restart was scheduled for November 1, 2013. It had to be postponed to November, 15th, because NASA was not able to provide the necessary graphical material, due to the Government shutdown in the United States.\n\nSince the 25th anniversary of the first human landing on the moon the original \nversion of the broadcast of the ARD is shown at the exact time of the original \nairing.\n\nAt the 40th anniversary of the Perry Rhodan series in 2001 there was a 'Perry Rhodan-Space Night'. Cover art by the artist Johnny Bruck (who produced the cover artwork for Perry Rhodan) was shown with modern techniques to animate still pictures, there were galaxies, planets, spaceplanes, men and aliens - a visual journey through the Perry Rhodan universe with the known music of Space Night. Following the broadcast, which was repeated for several weeks, a DVD with the title \"space night presents: Perry Rhodan 40th Anniversary - Special Sci-Fi Edition\" and a double album with the music was created.\n\n"}
{"id": "23525789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23525789", "title": "Telos Institute", "text": "Telos Institute\n\nThe Telos Institute is a 501(c) non-profit organization affiliated with the academic journal \"Telos\". The Telos Institute hosts annual conferences to examine such topics as \"social theory, political philosophy, intellectual history, and contemporary culture.\" Research presented at the conferences is often published in \"Telos\". The current director of the Telos Institute is Marie Piccone, who also serves as the publisher of \"Telos\".\n\nAccording to its mission statement the Telos Institute seeks to contribute to American intellectual discussions, but engages with scholars from around the globe to address relevant, yet under-researched topics. The institute achieves this through its annual conferences as well as collaboration with \"Telos\".\n\nThe 2006 \"Telos\" Conference hosted a panel discussion titled \"Modernity and its Critics\" featuring David Pan, Arthur Versluis, Timothy Luke, and Mika Okajangas. A second panel at the conference, \"Post-Communism,\" included Frank Adler, Victor Zaslavksy, David Ost, and Avi Tucker. Discussions at the 2007 conference featured Joe Bendersky, Jay Gupta, Jeffrey Herf, Gabor Rittersporn, Adrian Pabst, James Schall, and John Smith. Luke and Pan again appeared as moderators. In 2008 speakers at the conference included Bendersky, Luke, Pan, and Pabst as well as Martin Saavedra, Zoltan Balazs, Catherine Lu, John Barry, and Paul Gottfried. Pan, Luke, Bendersky, and Pabst spoke again at the 2009 \"Telos\" Conference. They were joined by Jim Kulk, John Milbank, Neil Turnbull, Michael Marder, and Ernie Sternberg. The most recent \"Telos\" Conference was held on January 16, 2010 and was organized around the theme \"From Lifeworld to Biopolitics: Empire in the Age of Obama.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45531126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45531126", "title": "The High School and Junior High School of University of Hyogo", "text": "The High School and Junior High School of University of Hyogo\n\nThe school's motto is .\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57196508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57196508", "title": "The Mission Walker", "text": "The Mission Walker\n\nThe Mission Walker is a non-fiction book written by American author Edie Littlefield Sundby and an Audie Award Finalist for Best Inspirational Book. It is an adventure story and personal memoir about her life and illness battling stage IV gallbladder cancer, and describes her healing 1,600-mile walk of the old, historic El Camino Real de las Californias mission trail from Loreto, Mexico to Sonoma, California, with one lung. The personal story is interlaced with the story of the old Jesuit mission trail in Baja California Mexico, and the Franciscan mission trail in California, and cites more than fifty historical sources.\n\nBefore writing \"The Mission Walker\", Edie Littlefield Sundby was a corporate executive, entrepreneur, and mother. In March 2007, Edie was diagnosed with stage-4 adenocarcinoma of the gallbladder with widespread metastasis, including liver, colon, peritoneum, and groin - and given a few months to live. While undergoing aggressive cancer treatment, she shared her reflections on life and illness, authoring essays in The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal. Over the course of six years she endured 79 rounds of chemotherapy, multiple radical surgeries (including the removal of her right lung, half her liver, and part of her colon and stomach), and intense radiation; through it all she walked, and, in The New York Times, she credits walking with saving her life.\n\nEl Camino Real - which stretches from Loreto, Mexico to north of San Francisco, California - crosses through some of the most deserted, desolate landscape in the world. At sixteen hundred miles long, it covers roughly the distance between Boston and Houston, as the crow flies. But instead of traveling it via a few hours flight, imagine walking the entire way.\n\nAnd instead of being the picture of health when you set out, imagine having undergone six years of aggressive chemotherapy, radiation, and invasive surgeries in your fight against stage IV cancer. And to make things extra challenging, you're down to just one lung and a fragment of the other.\n\nWhen Edie Littlefield Sundby was diagnosed with metastatic cancer and given only three months to live, she vowed to fight. She sought out the best care that the medical community could offer, and she relied on the faith she had inherited from her cotton-farmer parents. But Edie also found healing through movement. Edie knew that if she was still walking, she was still alive.\n\nThough she had never walked more than a few miles at a time, six months after her right lung was removed, Edie decided to walk the entire eight-hundred mile Historic California Mission Trail - the northern segment of El Camino Real - which links twenty-one missions from San Diego to north of San Francisco. Undeterred by physical and emotional pain, she searched for restoration and hope.\n\nAnd then, two years later, her cancer returned. With no time to lose, she set out to walk the remaining eight hundred-mile El Camino Real, from its origin in Loreto, Mexico, north to the US border. If she succeeded, she would be the first person in history to walk the entire sixteen hundred-mile \"El Camino Real de las Californias\" mission trail.\n\nThomas Nelson, publisher of \"The Mission Walker\", describes the book as \"both an adventure story and a reflection on the universal experience of confronting our own mortality.\" ‘The Mission Walker’ Book\n\n\"The Mission Walker\" is a 2018 Audie Award Finalist for Best Inspirational Book.. Randall Sullivan, Executive Producer, Oprah Winfrey Network, and writer/contributing editor at Rolling Stone, wrote in the introduction to the book: \"The Mission Walker is a marvelous book. Edie Littlefield Sundby writes of her battle against cancer with simple grace and enormous dignity. The journey she takes us on - her mission walk - is often arduous and at times harrowing, yet there's a spirit of uplift in even the most difficult passages... a moving meditation on the relationships between courage and faith, endurance and transcendence.\"\n\nCopelan, Christine (2017-07-09). “Edie Littlefield Sundby Recounts Arduous Cancer Journey in The Mission Walker “. Parade Magazine.\n\nRidley, Jane (2017-07-26). “After 79 Rounds of Chemo Cancer Survivor Completes 1,600-mile Trek.” New York Post.\n\nCherry, Renee (2017-07-25). “I Walked 1,600 Miles After I Was Given Three Months to Live.” Shape Magazine.\n\nRiley, Nicole (2017-08-17). “Edie Littlefield Sundby Opens Up About Her 1600 Mile Walk With Stage IV Cancer.” Simple Grace Magazine.\n\nNelson, Mike (2017-08-17). “The Mission Walker: Back on El Camino Real.” Los Angeles Angelus News.\n\nCoates, Sanna Boman (2017-08-25). “San Diego Women Who Are the Definition of Badass.” San Diego Magazine.\n\nEans, Kevin Photo Editor (2018-01-01). “A Trek Along the California Mission Trail.” Guideposts Magazine\n\nGrant, Meg (2012-11-28). “Against All Odds“. AARP Magazine.\n\nSundby, Edie Littlefield (2011-10-18). “Living Longer Than Predicted“. The New York Times.\n\nSundby, Edie Littlefield (2013-07-18). “Walking 800 Miles Away From Cancer“. The New York Times.\n\nSundby, Edie Littlefield (2015-09-18). “The Walker and the Saint“. The Wall Street Journal.\n\n\"The Mission Walker\" WEBSITE includes pictures and an interactive map of the El Camino de las Californias mission trail..\n"}
{"id": "20217224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20217224", "title": "Tropico 3", "text": "Tropico 3\n\nTropico 3 is a video game developed by Haemimont Games and published by Kalypso Media. Like the previous games in the series, \"Tropico 3\" is a construction and management simulation as well as a political simulation game, with emphasis on city building. As a thematic sequel to \"Tropico\" (unlike the pirate-themed sequel, \"Tropico 2\"), the game attempts to return to the roots of the series, which puts the player into the shoes of \"El Presidente\" – a dictator governing over an island banana republic.\n\nThe OS X version of the game was released on January 26, 2012, by Feral Interactive.\n\nFeral Interactive is bringing a redesigned version of Tropico 3 to iPad in 2018, under the name Tropico.\n\nPlayers begin having seized power of the Caribbean island country of Tropico, where they rule as \"El Presidente\". The game has a campaign with 15 different missions with varying objectives.\n\nAs \"El Presidente\", the player's main duties include managing development on the island, by ordering construction of various resources, industry and service buildings, and determining how these buildings operate. The player can also issue several different \"edicts\" to influence the island, such as new laws, policies, and diplomatic actions.\n\nThere are seven different political factions on the island (communists, capitalists, militarists, environmentalists, nationalists, religious faction and intellectuals) each with various demands, such as constructing a specific building and issuing a specific edict. Due to the game's Cold War setting, the player will have to manage relations with both the United States and the USSR, who will provide the player with yearly financial aid. Higher relations with a superpower will mean more aid and the possibility of an alliance, low relations will mean less aid and the danger of invasion by that superpower.\n\nOther features include a time line editor that allows you to create your own fictitious historical events or enter real ones, custom avatar, political speeches, wide range of editing and modification functions, mission generator for random map creation, variety of online-functions such as high scores or visiting islands belonging to other players and a Latin soundtrack.\n\nThe game has a variety of humor elements including running satirical commentary by fictional radio station Tropico News Today, and subtle touches such as liaisons between priests and cabaret girls. The \"loading\" and \"saving\" screens have quotes from various dictators, leaders, politicians, and revolutionaries such as Che Guevara, Fidel Castro, Vladimir Lenin, Karl Marx, John F. Kennedy, Dwight Eisenhower, Augusto Pinochet, Nikita Khrushchev, Leon Trotsky, Mobutu Sese Seko, Todor Zhivkov, Vladimir Putin, Muammar Gaddafi, and Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.\n\n\n\"Tropico 3\" was developed by Haemimont Games for both Xbox 360 and PC. Features include a new 3D game engine and a customizable avatar which you can travel across the island, interacting with the environment and population and the use of cars, trucks and limos. Like the original \"Tropico\", the developers preserved the tongue-in-cheek humor of the game, as well as the basic game-play. In \"Tropico 3\", the issues and problems of the island are explained by Juanito the DJ in humorous ways.\n\nIn March 2010, the expansion pack \"Absolute Power\" was announced, slated for release in Europe in 2010.\n\nThe expansion received an 8/10 on Game Zone, closing with \"Absolute Power isn’t a revolution, instead taking the framework laid out by the original game and building on it with new features and a wacky new campaign. The core mechanics are still the same, and the new campaign might be a turn off to sim fans looking for something more grounded and traditional. However, if you were a fan of \"Tropico 3\" and want another reason to step into the role of El Presidente once more, then this is your \nchance.\" Absolute Power was released on PC as an expansion pack, and is included in the Macintosh version of the game.\n\nThe expansion pack gives the player a wider selection of edicts such as 'Print money', 'Free housing', 'Delete a Faction' and 'Shoot Juanito' (which involves blowing up Juanito's \"TNT Radio\"). These new edicts are called 'Megalomania edicts'; for each edict that the player releases they can gain a varying amount of megalomania score that counts at the end of the game. Also there is a new range of buildings, including 'Golden Statue' (in the likeness of 'El Presidente'), 'Garbage dump' and 'Balloon rides'. The Loyalist faction is also introduced; it is composed of the player's most loyal supporters. There is also a second radio DJ named Betty Boom who is head of the resistance movement against el Presidente.\n\nThe \"Steam Special Edition\" of \"Tropico 3\" offers two additional maps for the sandbox mode and two additional costumes for the El Presidente avatar editor. The \"Steam Special Edition\" is only available through Steam. It was released on October 21, 2009, in North America but was originally listed to be released on the later date of October 25, 2009. The international release was on November 14, 2009.\n\nThe Collector Edition, for which the content has never been revealed, was available to pre-order only on Amazon sites worldwide; however, on September 30, 2009, Amazon announced this collector edition had been canceled. On September 29, 2010, Kalypso released \"Tropico 3: Gold Edition,\" which includes the Tropico 3, the Absolute Power expansion, and an instruction book.\n\n\"Tropico 3\" received generally favorable reviews at Metacritic, with an average of 79/100 on the PC, and 75/100 on the Xbox 360. \"GameSpot\" commented that \"playing a banana republic dictator in Tropico 3 might not be easy, but it certainly is rewarding.\" GameZone's Dakota Grabowski gave the game a 7 out of 10, stating, \"Containing a 15-mission campaign, short tutorial, sandbox mode and special challenges, \"Tropico 3\" has enough replay value to keep players at bay for more than a month. If that doesn’t satisfy the hunger, players are eligible to jump online and download user-created challenges to overcome. With personalities such as Fidel Castro and Che Guevara, \"Tropico 3\" is an educational and entertainment piece that is well-deserving of a few playthroughs by all gamers.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1271742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1271742", "title": "University of Concepción", "text": "University of Concepción\n\nUniversidad de Concepción (UdeC), is a traditional Chilean private university, the work of the Penquista community, one of the most traditional and prestigious in its country, considered complex due to its extensive research in the various areas of knowledge. Founded on May 14, 1919, it is the 3rd oldest university in Chile, and 1 of the 25 universities belonging to the Council of Rectors of Chilean Universities.\n\nIts headquarters are located in the city of Concepción, and also has 2 other campuses in Chillán and Los Ángeles. In a citizen survey carried out in 2012, it was chosen as the symbol that most identifies Penquists.\n\nIt was the 1st University created in the center-south zone of the country, besides being the 1st to be constituted as a private law corporation and belong to the Cruz del Sur University Network; it also belongs to the G9 University Network. The University of Concepción also had a pioneering role in the reform movement of Chilean universities that took place at the end of the 60's of the 20th century. It was the 1st Chilean university that approved the University Reform in that period (1968), giving greater participation to students in university management.\n\nIts main promoter was Chilean educator and lawyer Enrique Molina Garmendia, who sought to create the 1st secular university in Chile. As part of its educational line, the University of Concepción devotes a large part of its budget to academic research. It has in its facilities the most complete museum of Chilean art in the country, several sports centers and a network of 11 libraries, the main one occupying an area of 10,000 m² with a total of 100,000 volumes.\n\nBy 2012, the total number of graduates of this house of studies amounted to 57,000. It also teaches 23,700 students, 2,166 of them graduate programs; 72% of its professors have doctorates or master's degrees and its infrastructure, with 243,556 m² built, is one of the largest in Chile.\n\nIt is currently accredited by the National Accreditation Commission (CNA-Chile) for the maximum period of 7 years (of a maximum of 7), from November 2016 to November 2023. Figure in the 3rd position within the Chilean universities according to the webometric classification of the CSIC (July 2017) and in the 3rd position according to the AméricaEconomía 2017 ranking as well as national and international rankings. Within the Chilean universities, it is also among the 11 that figure in the QS 2017 world university ranking, among the 10 that appear in the Times Higher Education 2017 ranking, and among the 25 that appear in the ranking of Scimago Institution Rankings (SIR) 2017, with the 3rd position nationally and 572th worldwide.\n\nIts Concepción campus was declared a National Heritage in 2016 by the Council of National Monuments of Chile; what makes it the 1st and only University in Chile to have this recognition due to the design and architectural style of its environment that has been implemented in its buildings and campus-level environment since its foundation; the proclamation grants the university special protection and conservation of the campus and its space by the state; therefore, any intervention to the same has to be reported to the Council of Monuments, while any damage and type of vandalism that jeopardizes the integrity and security of the campus will be seriously penalized according to the law that regulates and covers the National Monuments, as well as the prompt construction of the 1st and only Bío Bío Technological Science Park (PACYT) in all of Chile located in the Bío-Bío Region, near the campus of the Universidad de Concepción; which at the same time will be in charge of the administration, organization, and projection of new ideas with a view to the future of it together with the Government of Chile; this initiative is going to be projected as a productive space of the future and a relevant pole of the development of the country, the place where all the creative potential will be housed, knowledge and innovations of high impact will be generated.\n\nIn the late 19th and early 20th centuries, many scholars from Concepción started to plead for the construction of a university for the south of Chile where it would be possible to study professional degrees outside the capital, Santiago. However, a project of this magnitude required a high level of organization, which as yet did not exist. In February 1917, the newspaper El Sur reported:\nOn March 23, 1917, the first official meeting took place to realise two dreams of the citizens of Concepción: a clinical hospital and a university.\n\nAfter debate, a committee was named to take charge of the construction of these two projects. The projects were closely related because the hospital would become the base of the new university's medical school. Some notable members of the committee included Enrique Molina Garmendia, Pedro Nolasco, Edmundo Larenas and Virginio Gómez.\n\nThe commission then presented the documentation to Congress that would officially create the university. These were sent and approved, and on May 14, 1919, Enrique Molina Garmendia founded the university and became its first rector.\n\nNowadays, the university is funded by various organisations belonging to the \"University of Concepción Corporation\". The Lottery is one of the main organisations. With this funding, the University of Concepción has become one of the most modern and important universities in Chile.\n\nThe University of Concepción is divided into three campuses, located in Chillán, Los Ángeles and Concepción. The latter is the main and most important campus.\n\nThe university is located in the University District. The whole campus comprises what is known as the Ciudad Universitaria (University City), which also contains museums, sculptures and parks. Today, the campus has an area of 1,425,000 m, of which 239,856 are built upon. It is the knowledge, science, culture, technology and research centre of the city of Concepción. The \"Presencia de América Latina\" mural by Jorge González Camarena is within the Casa del Arte on the university campus.\n\nIn 2010, the University of Concepción campus was named one of Chile’s most important architectural works from the first half of the 20th century. The \"Obra Bicentenario\" award distinguishes works that, in the last 100 years, have changed the face of Chile’s cities and most improved the quality of life of its inhabitants.\n\nThe Chillán campus was founded in 1955 with the support of many institutions such as the United Nations, the OAS, American and European universities, and others. It mainly focuses on agricultural sciences and has approximately 2,000 students, more than 100 academic staff and 250 administrative staff |http://www.chillan.udec.cl |.\n\nThe Los Ángeles campus was founded in 1962 at the request of the people of the province to the university rector, David Stitchkin Branover. Currently, it has 1,300 students and 35 full-time teachers, plus other part-time academic staff.\n\nThe University of Concepción is made up of 19 schools and departments:\n\n\nThe university's current rector is Sergio Lavanchy. The university belongs to the Council of Rectors of Traditional Chilean Universities. \nThe rectors that have directed the university have been:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33347596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33347596", "title": "VOA3R", "text": "VOA3R\n\nThe Virtual Open Access Agriculture & Aquaculture Repository Project (VOA3R) was a European research project financed through the Seventh Framework Programme of the European Union. The project consortium was composed of fourteen partners from ten different countries, as well as representatives from FAO of the United Nations.\n\nThe general objective of the VOA3R project was to improve the spread of European agriculture and aquaculture research results by using an innovative approach to sharing open access research products. The project tasks and work packages carried out innovative experiments with open access to scientific agriculture and aquaculture contents and developed and provided services that integrated previously existing open access repositories and scholarly publication management systems by means of a federation approach. The key product of the project was the VOA3R platform.\n\nThe VOA3R platform aimed at reusing existing and mature metadata and semantic technology to deploy an advanced community-focused integrated service for the retrieval of relevant open content, and data that includes explicit models of the scholarly methods and procedures used and of the practical tasks targeted by applied research (which represent a principal information need expression for practitioners). The service enabled researchers to formulate their information needs in terms of elements of the scientific methods established in their field (variables, techniques, assessment methods, kinds of objects of interest, etc.) combined with topical descriptions as expressed in metadata. The community approach enabled the enhancement of information seeking with extended evaluation elements (as for example, ratings, public reviews, social tagging and links to supporting or conflicting reports) that complement and go beyond the traditional, anonymous peer review process which results are not made available openly. The technology used would itself become open source, so that the model of the service could be adopted by enterprises (including SMEs) or other kinds of institutions as a value-added, community-oriented model for open access content.\n\nThe general objective of the project was to improve the spread of European agriculture and aquaculture research results by using an innovative approach to sharing open access research products.\n\nThe concrete objectives towards this were the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17558251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17558251", "title": "Wadi International University", "text": "Wadi International University\n\nWadi International University (), commonly referred to as the German Syrian University, is a private, internationally oriented university, located in Wadi al-Nasara in Syria.\n\nThe university was founded by German Syrian immigrants living in Germany with strong connections to German higher education institutions. The university was initially named as WGSU, Wadi German Syrian University, but was later changed to WIU, Wadi International University. WIU made strong agreements with multiple German universities such as Otto-von-Guericke-Universität Magdeburg, University of Oldenburg and Brandenburg University of Technology, to support its faculties and to distinguish itself from other private universities in Syria. WIU is the only university in Syria that teaches its programs in English.\n\nThe university offers ten bachelor degrees, and is organized into three faculties. WIU has a student body of approximately 2500 undergraduate students.\n\nWIU made strong agreements with multiple German universities such as Otto-von-Guericke-Universität Magdeburg, University of Oldenburg and Brandenburg University of Technology, to offer dual degrees in many of its bachelors. In order to achieve the dual degrees, prospective students have to finish a semester at the German university, which resulted in a very strong exchange student program. Every year a large number of students from the different departments travel to Germany to finish their respective semester in order to achieve the dual degree. The engineering and management students mostly attend the Otto-von-Guericke-Universität Magdeburg and the architecture student attend the Brandenburg University of Technology.\n\nThe university has three faculties:\n\n\nThe university offers bachelor degrees in the following majors:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57167504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57167504", "title": "Whistle-blowing policy in Nigeria", "text": "Whistle-blowing policy in Nigeria\n\nWhistle-blowing Policy in Nigeria is an anti-corruption programme that encourages people to voluntarily disclose information about fraud, bribery, looted government funds, financial misconduct, government assets and any other form of corruption or theft to the Nigeria's Federal Ministry of Finance. A whistle-blower who provides information about any financial mismanagement or tip about any stolen funds to the ministry's portal is rewarded or entitled to 2.5% - 5% percentage from the recovered funds by the Nigeria government. The policy was launched on December 21, 2016 by Nigeria's Federal Government and facilitated through the Federal Ministry of Finance.\n\nIt was reported that within the first two months of the Whistle-blowing policy in Nigeria that Nigeria's Federal Government recovered over $178 million that were stolen from the government. By June 5, 2017, Federal Ministry of Finance received a total of 2,150 tips from the public, 128 tips came through the website of the ministry, 1,192 was through phone calls, 540 through SMS and 290 through email to the ministry. By July/August 2017, a total of 5000 tips was received. In October 2017, the Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu said that N527,643,500; $53,222.747; GBP21,222,890 and Euro 547,730 was recovered since the policy was launched.\n\nIn 2017, a whistler-blower helped the Nigeria government to recover $43.5million, GBP27,800 and N23.2million at No. 16 Osborne Road, Ikoyi, Lagos, Nigeria. It was also reported that Federal Ministry of Finance paid the whistler-blower the sum of N421million.\n\nTo protect whistle-blowers, civil society organizations have been engaged in a number of advocacy to ensure that people who blow whistle are protected. MacArthur Foundation is currently funding African Centre for Media & Information Literacy (AFRICMIL) to launch a whistle-blower campaign known as Corruption Anonymous.\n\nHealth advocates have urged Nigeria government to use the recovered funds to fund immunization and other health issues in Nigeria.\n"}
{"id": "5598684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5598684", "title": "William Trufant Foster", "text": "William Trufant Foster\n\nWilliam Trufant Foster (January 18, 1879 – October 8, 1950), was an American educator and economist, whose theories were especially influential in the 1920s. He was the first president of Reed College.\n\nFoster was born in Boston, Massachusetts on January 18, 1879. He graduated from Harvard University with an A.B. in 1901 and an A.M., 1904. Foster was an instructor of English at Bates College in Maine, from 1901–03 and served as a coach of Bates' internationally known debate program. Foster was also professor of English and Argumentation at Bowdoin College in Maine in 1905. He authored \"Argumentation and Debating\", published in 1908. Foster eventually received a Ph.D. in 1911 from Teachers College, Columbia University. His conception of \"the ideal college\" set out in the concluding chapter of his dissertation, led to his appointment as the first president of Reed College, 1911–1919. He rejected intercollegiate sports and fostered close intellectual collaboration between faculty and students. He was director (1920–1950) of the Pollak Foundation of Economic Research, in Newton, Massachusetts, where he emphasized the need to protect consumer interests.\n\nHe collaborated with his Harvard classmate Waddill Catchings in a series of economics books that were highly influential in the United States in the 1920s. His influential books, written with Catchings, were \"Money\" (1923), \"Profits\" (1925), \"Business Without a Buyer\" (1927), \"The Road to Plenty\" (1928), and \"Progress and Plenty\" (1930).\n\nWith Catchings, he was one of the leading pre-Keynesian economists, in the underconsumptionist tradition, advocating similar issues to Keynes such as the paradox of thrift and economic interventionism. The two are now rarely mentioned in contemporary economics texts, standing as they do in the shadow of Keynes's \"The General Theory.\"\n\nFoster and Catchings rejected traditional laissez-faire economics and called for aggressive federal involvement to balance the economy lest destabilizing forces upset prosperity. The main problem was underconsumption, which could be overcome by strategic government spending in public works. The theory strongly influenced the anti-depression programs of Herbert Hoover, and Franklin D. Roosevelt, as well as Federal Reserve Board Chairman Marriner Eccles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57685748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57685748", "title": "Yale Postdoctoral Association", "text": "Yale Postdoctoral Association\n\nThe Yale Postdoctoral Association (YPA) is composed of postdocs from across disciplines working at the Yale University. The goal of this association is to create a broad sense of community and engagement among postdocs, as well as to help postdocs have a happy and successful experience at Yale. It organizes professional development and social events for the postdoctoral community and beyond. There is an average of 1200 postdocs working at Yale, with contract length ranging from 1 to 5 years.\n\nThe YPA was created in March 2015. On June 8th 2018, the YPA organized the 1st Postdoc Symposium at Yale, a unique opportunity for postdoc to mingle, network and present their research.\n\nThe association is supervised by two elected chairs helped by two secretaries. The association is organized in committees lead each by two coordinators. \nThe committees are:\n\nThe YPA consider that every postdoc at Yale (postdoctoral associate and postdoctoral fellow) is a member of YPA and can participate in the events. The YPA executive board is composed of volunteering postdocs that want to improve the community.\n\n"}
{"id": "35887002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35887002", "title": "Zagreb Botanical Garden", "text": "Zagreb Botanical Garden\n\nThe Zagreb Botanical Garden () is a botanical garden located in downtown Zagreb, Croatia. Founded in 1889 by Antun Heinz, Professor of the University of Zagreb, and opened to public in 1891, it is part of the Faculty of Science. Covering an area of 5 hectares, the garden is situated at an altitude of above sea level. It is home to over 10,000 plant species from around the world, including 1,800 exotic ones. It has large ponds for aquatic plants. Some of Slava Raškaj's most notable works were painted by the garden ponds.\n"}
