{"id": "56399309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56399309", "title": "2013 GM3", "text": "2013 GM3\n\nThe asteroid has only been observed for 12 days. Based on a crude orbit determination, it has an exceptionally low MOID and may approach Earth at one lunar distance on 14 April 2026. Alternative calculations gave a much shorter distance with a possible minimum transit at approximately 8,600 kilometers above Earth's surface.\n\n is a member of the dynamical Aten group, which are Earth-crossing asteroids and one of the smaller subgroups of near-Earth objects.\n\nIt orbits the Sun at a distance of 0.60–1.08 AU once every 9 months (279 days; semi-major axis of 0.84 AU). Its orbit has an eccentricity of 0.29 and an inclination of nearly 0° with respect to the ecliptic. The body's observation arc begins with a precovery taken by DECam at the Chilean Víctor M. Blanco Telescope on 1 April 2013, just two nights prior to its first official observation at Mount Lemmon.\n\n has a poorly determined orbit with an uncertainty parameter of 7, due to its short 12-day observation arc. Based on the preliminary orbital elements, the object has an \"Earth minimum orbital intersection distance\" of , which translates into 0.037 lunar distances (LD). Due to its small size, that is, an absolute magnitude fainter than 22, it is not classified as a potentially hazardous asteroid.\n\nOn 14 April 2026, the object is currently predicted to approach Earth within a nominal distance of or 1.02 LD. It will also pass the Moon at a nominal distance of . Conversely, Italian astronomers Piero Sicoli and Francesco Manca at the Sormano Astronomical Observatory estimated a close approach with Earth at a nominal distance of 68,420 kilometers and a possible minimum transit at approximately 8,600 kilometers above Earth's surface for that very same date. The two astronomers acknowledge that their orbital computations still contain large uncertainties.\n\n has not been observed by any of the space-based surveys such as the Infrared Astronomical Satellite IRAS, the Japanese Akari satellite, and NASA's Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer with its subsequent NEOWISE mission. Based on a generic magnitude-to-diameter conversion, measures approximately 17 meter in diameter using an absolute magnitude of 26.3 and assuming an albedo of 0.20, which is a typical figure for the common, stony S-type asteroids. Astronomers at the Sormano Astronomical Observatory estimate a similar diameter of 25 meters.\n\nAs of 2018, no rotational lightcurve of has been obtained from photometric observations. The asteroid's rotation period, shape and spin axis remain unknown.\n\nThis minor planet has neither been numbered nor named.\n\n"}
{"id": "33223763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33223763", "title": "5751", "text": "5751\n\n5751 is the designation for a low-voltage, low-noise avionics vacuum tube popular as a pre-amplification tube in guitar amplifiers. The 5751 is a modified version of the 12AX7 and is used to \"soften up a harsh modern amp\".\n\n"}
{"id": "826291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=826291", "title": "Aegina (mythology)", "text": "Aegina (mythology)\n\nAegina (; ) was a figure of Greek mythology, the nymph of the island that bears her name, Aegina, lying in the Saronic Gulf between Attica and the Peloponnesos. The archaic Temple of Aphaea, the \"Invisible Goddess\", on the island was later subsumed by the cult of Athena. \"Aphaia\" (Ἀφαῖα) may be read as an attribute of Aegina that provides an epithet, or as a doublet of the goddess.\n\nThough the name \"Aegina\" betokens a goat-nymph, such as was Cretan Amalthea, she was given a mainland identity as the daughter of the river-god Asopus and the nymph Metope; of their twelve or twenty daughters, many were ravished by Apollo or Zeus. Aegina bore at least two children: Menoetius by Actor, and Aeacus by Zeus, both of whom became kings. A certain Damocrateia, who married Menoetius, was also called her daughter by an unknown consort.\n\nThe mortal son Menoetius was king of Opus, and was counted among the Argonauts. His son was Patroclus, Achilles' first cousin once removed through their paternal family connection to Aegina, and his intimate companion.\n\nThe son made immortal, Aeacus, was the king of Aegina, and was known to have contributed help to Poseidon and Apollo in building the walls of Troy. Through him Aegina was the great-grandmother of Achilles, who was son of Peleus, son of Aeacus.\n\nIt was often said that Zeus took the form of an eagle (or a great flame in Ovid's telling) and abducted Aegina, taking her to an island near Attica, then called Oenone; henceforth known by her name. Aegina's father Asopus chased after them; his search took him to Corinth, where Sisyphus was king. Sisyphus, having chanced to see a great bird bearing a maiden away to a nearby island, informed Asopus. Though Asopus pursued them, Zeus threw down his thunderbolts sending Asopus back to his own waters. Aegina eventually gave birth to her son Aeacus, who became king of the island.\n\nWhen the city of Aegina was depopulated by a plague sent by Hera in jealous reprisal for Zeus's love of Aegina, the king Aeacus prayed to Zeus for the ants that were currently infesting an oak tree to morph into humans to repopulate his kingdom. Thus the myrmidons were created.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25209303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25209303", "title": "Angolan Scarp savanna and woodlands", "text": "Angolan Scarp savanna and woodlands\n\nThe Angolan Scarp savanna and woodlands is an ecoregion located on the coast of Angola, an area with a variety of habitats and rich in wildlife including many endemic birds and animals.\n\nThis ecoregion consists of the strip of land that runs along the coast of Angola and the steep west-facing ridge that rises from the Atlantic coast to Angola's large central plateau, to a height of about 1000m. The area contains a mixture of types of habitat:rain forest, cloud forest, grassland, mangroves, and swamp. This coast has a tropical climate with summer rains and high humidity all year round.\n\nThis diverse ecoregion can be divided into three different areas according to their type of habitat. North of the Cuanza River is a forest of tall trees surrounded by tall grasses, with areas of mangrove and swamp on riverbanks especially in the river estuaries. At higher altitudes on the western ridge patches of cloud forest, which shelter a rich variety of endemic plants and animals. Finally, on the coastal strip and the low slopes of the escarpment south of the Cuanza there are dry woodlands and wooded grasslands. (See Central African mangroves for a description of the coastal swamps).\n\nThe forests have been home to a variety of mammals including the African forest elephant, lion and cheetah, but uncontrolled hunting may have completely removed these. Remaining mammals include the yellow-backed duiker (\"Cephalophus sylvicultor\"), black-fronted duiker (\"Cephalophus nigrifrons\"), blue duiker (\"Cephalophus monticola\"), and smaller species such as the tree pangolin (\"Phataginus tricuspis\"), Beecroft's flying squirrel and forest giant squirrel. In the dry season animals migrate to the moister areas uphill.\nLarger mammals, which are found especially in the drier grasslands rather than the forests on the ridge, include roan antelope (\"Hippotragus equinus\"), African forest buffalo (\"Syncerus caffer nanus\"), African bush elephant (\"Loxodonta africana\"), southern reedbuck (\"Redunca arundinum\"), bushbuck (\"Tragelaphus scriptus\") and eland (\"Taurotragus oryx\").\n\nBird species endemic to this coast include the grey-striped francolin (\"Francolinus griseostriatus\"), red-crested turaco (\"Tauraco erythrolophus\"), Gabela helmet-shrike (\"Prionops gabela\"), white-fronted wattle-eye (\"Platysteira albifrons\"), Angola slaty flycatcher (\"Dioptrornis brunneus\"), Gabela akalat (\"Sheppardia gabela\"), Angola cave-chat (\"Xenocopsychus ansorgei\"), Pulitzer's longbill (\"Macrosphenus pulitzeri\"), golden-backed bishop (\"Euplectes aureus\"), orange-breasted bush-shrike (\"Laniarius brauni\"), Gabela bush-shrike (\"Laniarius amboimensis\"), and (found here and in Cameroon) Monteiro's bush-shrike (\"Malaconotus monteiri\"). Birds with endemic sub-species include brown-chested alethe (\"Alethe poliocephala hallae\"), yellow-necked greenbul (\"Chlorocichla falkensteini falkensteini\"), and grey-backed camaroptera (\"Camaroptera brevicaudata harteri\").\n\nThe coastal strip is home to two endemic reptiles; a gecko (\"Hemidactylus bayonii\") and a worm lizard \"Monopeltis luandae\", and four endemic frogs; \"Hyperolius punctulatus\", Congulu forest treefrog (\"Leptopelis jordani\"), Quissange forest treefrog (\"Leptopelis marginatus\"), and Congolo frog (\"Hylarana parkeriana\").\n\nThis is a populous part of Angola and farming, logging and uncontrolled hunting are all affecting the forest habitats and the large mammals in particular are now rare. Until the 1970s the cloud forest area on the escarpment was used for planting coffee, which meant clearing the undergrowth, but coffee growing ceased during the Angolan Civil War and the undergrowth has renewed itself. The dry area to the south of the region has not been settled and much grassland remains. Some larger mammals have been protected in Quiçama National Park (Kissama), which is on the coast near the Cuanza River, but in general this area has been badly affected by the civil war and is poorly studied or protected. This area contains Angola's capital Luanda, a city that has grown to more than 3.5 million people.\n\n"}
{"id": "4426385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4426385", "title": "Aridity index", "text": "Aridity index\n\nAn aridity index (AI) is a numerical indicator of the degree of dryness of the climate at a given location. A number of aridity indices have been proposed (see below); these indicators serve to identify, locate or delimit regions that suffer from a deficit of available water, a condition that can severely affect the effective use of the land for such activities as agriculture or stock-farming.\n\nAt the turn of the 20th century, Wladimir Köppen and Rudolf Geiger developed the concept of a climate classification where arid regions were defined as those places where the annual rainfall accumulation (in centimetres) is less than formula_1, where:\n\n\nwhere formula_5 is the mean annual temperature in Celsius.\n\nThis was one of the first attempts at defining an aridity index, one that reflects the effects of the thermal regime and the amount and distribution of precipitation in determining the native vegetation possible in an area. It recognizes the significance of temperature in allowing colder places such as northern Canada to be seen as humid with the same level of precipitation as some tropical deserts because of lower levels of potential evapotranspiration in colder places. In the subtropics, the allowance for the distribution of rainfall between warm and cold seasons recognizes that winter rainfall is more effective for plant growth that can flourish in the winter and go dormant in the summer than the same amount of summer rainfall during a warm-to-hot season. Thus a place like Athens, Greece that gets most of its rainfall in winter can be considered to have a humid climate (as attested in lush foliage) with roughly the same amount of rainfall that imposes semi-desert conditions in Midland, Texas, where rainfall largely occurs in the summer. \n\nIn 1948, C. W. Thornthwaite proposed an AI defined as:\n\nformula_6\n\nwhere the water deficiency formula_7 is calculated as the sum of the monthly differences between precipitation and potential evapotranspiration for those months when the normal precipitation is less than the normal evapotranspiration; and where formula_8 stands for the sum of monthly values of potential evapotranspiration for the deficient months (after Huschke, 1959). This AI was later used by Meigs (1961) to delineate the arid zones of the world in the context of the UNESCO Arid Zone Research programme.\nIn the preparations leading to the UN Conference on Desertification (UNCOD), the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) issued a dryness map based on a different aridity index, proposed originally by Mikhail Ivanovich Budyko (1958) and defined as follows:\n\nformula_9\n\nwhere formula_10 is the mean annual net radiation (also known as the net radiation balance), formula_11 is the mean annual precipitation, and formula_12 is the latent heat of vaporization for water. Note that this index is dimensionless and that the variables formula_10, formula_12 and formula_11 can be expressed in any system of units that is self-consistent.\n\nMore recently, the UNEP has adopted yet another index of aridity, defined as:\n\nformula_16\n\nwhere formula_17 is the potential evapotranspiration and formula_11 is the average annual precipitation (UNEP, 1992). Here also, formula_17 and formula_11 must be expressed in the same units, e.g., in millimetres. In this latter case, the boundaries that define various degrees of aridity and the approximate areas involved are as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25455095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25455095", "title": "Birds of Australia: A Summary of Information", "text": "Birds of Australia: A Summary of Information\n\nBirds of Australia: A Summary of Information is a compact handbook on Australian birds published in 1973. It was authored by the originally British ornithologist James David Macdonald who moved permanently to Australia in 1968 following his retirement from a long career with the British Natural History Museum, one of the final responsibilities of which was the organisation of the Harold Hall Australian bird collecting expeditions during the 1960s. The book is dedicated to the sponsor of the expeditions, Australian-born philanthropist Harold Wesley Hall, OBE, MC.\n\nThe book is 255 mm in height by 190 mm in width. It has 552 pages and contains 24 colour plates by Peter Slater as well as numerous drawings in the text by the same artist. Following the author’s introduction and explanatory notes on the text there is a chapter on the “Origin and Structure of Australian Bird Fauna” by D.L. Serventy, with 51 pages of distribution maps at the end between the species accounts and the index.\n\nThe book was reviewed in the \"Emu\", the ornithological journal of the Royal Australasian Ornithologists Union, shortly before the opening of the August 1974 International Ornithological Congress in Canberra. Some extracts from the review:\n”This book, subtitled ‘A Summary of Information’, is intended by the author first for identification. As well as giving descriptions, it briefly outlines variation, distribution, habitat, habits, breeding, voice, food, status and taxonomy of all birds recorded in Australia. In addition Dr D.L. Serventy contributes a lucid eight-page essay on zoogeography, which not only summarizes a lot of recent information, but also embraces challenging new views on the origins of the early Australian avifauna.”\n”Of the 745 species, 467 are illustrated. Two hundred and forty-eight of these are in colour and the rest in black and white, often of part of the bird only. For many ornithologists the lack of illustrations of many species is likely to be a real drawback, in spite of 117 keys in the text for the identification of species within families or genera. The field characters used in the keys thus become very important.”\n”Peter Slater’s black and white illustrations are accurate, lifelike and delightful. His colour plates are also successful though the colours of some species are slightly too pale (e.g. Pink Robin), but this is not serious.”\n”This book has a lot of useful information, the production of which has clearly involved painstaking, and no doubt lengthy, labour by the author. However, it can be seen from what has been said that there are inaccuracies and gaps. Even if some of these details appear minor, it must be remembered that expensive reference books stand or fall on detail. The author appeals, in the introduction, for readers to point out faults and provide new information. The second edition could thus be much improved.”\n”But now we do have one modern, systematically arranged book of all Australian birds available when we welcome the world’s ornithologists here in August.”\n\n"}
{"id": "43345038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43345038", "title": "Boron fiber", "text": "Boron fiber\n\nBoron Fiber (also commonly called \"boron filament\") is an amorphous elemental boron product which represents the major industrial use of elemental (free) boron. Boron fiber manifests a combination of high strength and high modulus.\n\nA common use of boron fibers is in the construction of high tensile strength tapes. Boron fiber use results in high-strength, lightweight materials that are used chiefly for advanced aerospace structures as a component of composite materials, as well as limited production consumer and sporting goods such as golf clubs and fishing rods.\n\nIn the production process, elemental boron is deposited on an even tungsten wire substrate which produces diameters of 4.0 mil (102 micron) and 5.6 mil (142 micron). It consists of a fully borided tungsten core with amorphous boron.\n\nBoron fibers and sub-millimeter sized crystalline boron springs are produced by laser-assisted chemical vapor deposition. Translation of the focused laser beam allows to produce even complex helical structures. Such structures show good mechanical properties (elastic modulus 450 GPa, fracture strain 3.7%, fracture stress 17 GPa) and can be applied as reinforcement of ceramics or in micromechanical systems.\n"}
{"id": "47580620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47580620", "title": "Callows", "text": "Callows\n\nCallows () are a type of wetland found in Ireland. They are a seasonally flooded grassland ecosystem found on low-lying river floodplains. \n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "8684654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8684654", "title": "Canaan Valley", "text": "Canaan Valley\n\nCanaan Valley () is an oval, bowl-like upland valley in northeastern Tucker County, West Virginia, USA. Within it are extensive wetlands and the headwaters of the Blackwater River which spills out of the valley at Blackwater Falls. It is a well-known and partially undeveloped scenic attraction and tourist draw, associated with the Canaan Valley Resort State Park and the Blackwater Falls State Park.\n\nCanaan Valley was designated a National Natural Landmark in 1974. The National Park Service citation indicates that the Valley is \"a splendid 'museum' of Pleistocene habitats ... contain[ing] ... an aggregation of these habitats seldom found in the eastern United States. It is unique as a northern boreal relict community at this latitude by virtue of its size, elevation and diversity.\" Since 1994, almost 70% of the Valley has become the Canaan Valley National Wildlife Refuge, the nation's 500th National Wildlife Refuge.\n\nThe local pronunciation of \"Canaan\" is , rather than the conventional for the Biblical region from which the area takes its name because, as the legend goes, whoever named the area simply could not pronounce it properly.\n\nThe Valley, nestled among the higher ranges of the Allegheny Mountains, is about long and to wide. It is defined by Canaan Mountain to the west and Cabin Mountain to the east. The Valley encompasses approximately 25,000 acres (although the greater Valley ecosystem is sometimes considered to consist of about 36,000 acres). The average valley floor elevation is above sea level, making it the highest sizable valley east of the Mississippi River. The surrounding mountains extend upward an additional to 4,450 ft. (1,356 m) at the summit of Weiss Knob on the southeastern rim of the valley.\n\nThe Blackwater River originates in the southern part of the Valley. The Falls of the Blackwater represent part of a water gap through which the river exits the Valley between Brown and Canaan Mountains before cascading through Blackwater Canyon.\n\nCanaan Valley — like the very similar Burke's Garden in Virginia — is a southern \"muskeg\" occupying an anticline valley. The Valley itself is carved into the low dome of sedimentary rock known as the Blackwater Anticline, exposing the soft shales of the Mauch Chunk Formation. In the Canaan Valley region, the Blackwater River began carving into the underlying sedimentary rock layers of Mississippian and Pennsylvanian age (345–270 millions years ago) about one million years ago. The hard, erosion-resistant Pottsville Formation of sandstones is the higher layer supporting the mountains surrounding Canaan Valley and also constitutes the sharp rim of the nearby Blackwater Gorge. Tombstone-like outcroppings of Greenbrier Limestone are also exposed at places along the Valley floor. A relatively high area within the Valley – the Central Pocono Ridge – is composed of the erosion-resistant Pocono Group sandstone.\n\nBecause of its relatively high elevation of 3,200 feet, Canaan Valley has a cooler, moister climate than surrounding areas at lower altitudes.\n\nSummers are cool and humid with afternoon maximum temperatures averaging in the mid 70s °F. Summer morning minimum temperatures average in the low 50s °F. Due to its altitude and \"frost hollow\" topography, extreme minimum temperatures below freezing (20s °F) have been recorded in every month of the year. The average growing season of about 95 days is shorter than in Fairbanks, Alaska in interior central Alaska.\n\nWinters are typically cold and snowy with an average winter producing 134 inches (340 cm) of snowfall. The largest snowfall of 257 inches (650 cm) was recorded in the 1995–96 winter. Even in the mildest of winters, over 5 feet (25 cm) of snow falls. Snow pack usually reaches a maximum depth of about 2 feet plus (0.7 m) in late February. In exceptionally cold snowy winters, packs can exceed 4 feet (1.2 m) in depth in the woods.\n\nDue to its proximity to both the warm Gulf of Mexico and frigid interior northern Canada, periods of warm above freezing conditions alternate with frigid temperatures. This results in periods of rain and snow even during the coldest months. This characteristic of the climate normally holds snow depth on the ground to below what it would be without mild periods and rainfall occurring.\n\nCanaan Valley's elevation and geographic location allow it to receive significant upslope snow (Orographic lift) regularly during the winter, particularly during prolonged periods of northwesterly winds coming off of the Great Lakes. Such synoptic situations can generate prolonged blizzard conditions. Located along the spine of the Central Appalachian Mountains, the Valley is often near the western edge of Nor'easters, occasionally getting blizzards from strong, Atlantic moisture-laiden, easterly winds. \n\nCanaan Valley and surrounding areas were strongly impacted by the southward advance of glaciers some 15,000 years ago. Although the glaciers themselves did not extend into the area, this climatic change resulted in a very cool, moist environment that was forest-unfriendly. Later, as the ice receded, many cold-adapted plant species remained behind and survived due to the high elevation. Soon, however, this tundra-like vegetation was largely crowded out by the growth of an extraordinarily dense climax red spruce forest, intermixed with balsam fir and hardwoods.\n\nThe first whites to see Canaan Valley were likely the surveyors of the famous Fairfax Line who crossed Canaan Mountain in 1746 under conditions of extreme difficulty. According to a local tradition, a German settler named Henry Fansler, who was migrating from the Shenandoah Valley, viewed the valley from Cabin Mountain in April 1800 and exclaimed \"Besiehe das Land Canaan\" [\"Behold the Land of Canaan\"]. Fansler and his family hacked out a living on Freeman Creek in the Valley for three years before the harsh winters and poor farming potential forced them to move to the mouth of the Blackwater a few miles away. Fansler was the first Canaan settler whose name is known, although there is known to have been an earlier abortive homesteader in the 1770s or '80s who left descendants elsewhere in the county.\n\nThe rugged and remote \"High Allegheny\" region (what is now east-central West Virginia), including the Valley, was bypassed by development for many decades. As large-scale settlement occurred to its north, south and west the region remained relatively wild. In the 19th Century, the Valley was a last refuge for many of the large mammal species that were being exterminated from the eastern United States. In about 1843, for example, three elk were killed in Canaan Valley by members of the Flanagan and Carr families, local settlers who habitually hunted there. These were likely the last elk found wild in the region that later became West Virginia.\n\nThe earliest settler to make a successful and permanent livelihood in the Valley came more than 60 years after Fansler when Solomon W. Cosner began living at Fansler's old homestead in 1864. The country was described at that time as one of \"... original forests [which ...] is swampy, but, as soon as the timber is removed, the water dries up ... Water stands in horse tracks in the woods.\" Cosner, a Civil War veteran known as the \"Pioneer of Canaan\", was a noted bear hunter. He and his sons were said to have killed more than 500 bears in Canaan Valley (as well as countless deer, two panthers and a wolf). Other families arrived to settle in the Valley in the 1870s.\n\nIn 1883, a Virginia adventurer, former Texas cowboy and land speculator named Charles R. Ruffin bought of the Valley and organized the \"Canaan Valley Blue Grass & Improvement Company\", but his scheme to create a vast and profitable cattle ranch came to nothing.\n\nLogging of the surrounding mountains was extensive in the 1880s and '90s, but impenetrable understories of rhododendron made passage through the Valley floor almost impossible until the advent of a logging railroad in 1915. The productivity of the timber stands extracted from the Valley floor between 1888 and 1922 (when the last virgin timber was removed) was twice that of similar stands within the state. Maurice Brooks described the ensuing environmental damage in his classic book on Appalachian natural history:\n\nCanaan Valley had a tragic history, and its comeback has been a slow one. A hundred years ago valley and surrounding ridges were covered by red spruce forest of a density that is hard to imagine today. Under such a forest the sun never reached to ground level, humus accumulated through the ages, and fire was not a threat. The lumbermen came, ultimately, and if total and permanent destruction of the entire area had been an aim it could scarcely have been more fully realized. An official of the company boasted that in they had not left one stick of timber that would make a two-by-four. Log yields were fantastic; some land on the valley floor scaled to of lumber ... With all cover removed, organic material at ground level began to dry out; soon it was high-grade fuel, and the inevitable fires got started. There followed such a ground fire as this state has never seen before or since. For months this humus layer smoldered, and neither rains nor snows could stop the fire's slow advance. The village of Davis was saved by a series of deep trenches around it, these kept filled with water carried from the Blackwater River. When the destruction was complete, all vegetable matter that wasn't soaked had burned ... Bare rocks remained, and thin mineral soil, this often several feet lower than ground level in the original forest. Canaan and environs had become a desert. I have often wondered if the Pittsburgh company responsible for this has been proud of its job, and if it has enjoyed the resultant wealth.\n\nBy the 1920s, the Babcock Lumber and Boom Company had virtually exhausted its commercial prospects in the Valley. In 1923, the West Virginia Power and Transmission Company (WVPTC, later called Allegheny Power Systems), bought in the northern half of the Valley from Babcock with a long-range plan to construct a hydroelectric power plant that would flood much of the Valley The WVPTC was not, of course, motivated by any preservationist or environmentalist impulses, but this land purchase was decisive for the fate of the Valley and the power company proved an unwitting guardian of the natural wetlands from development. According to Michael—a wildlife biologist with 30 years experience in the Valley—had this purchase not occurred by a public utility at a time when the scientific and environmental value of wetland was not yet recognized, the northern Valley would undoubtedly have been drained and developed by commercial and private interests in the 1950s and '60s, as happened in the southern Valley.\n\nSerious accidents, even fatal ones, were not uncommon in the logging industry in West Virginia in its heyday. A particularly noteworthy one occurred on 5 February 1924 in Canaan Valley when Babcock's Engine #4 wrecked and killed superintendent Fred V. Viering.\n\nIn 1920, the southern third of the Valley was included in the newly established Monongahela National Forest, the first attempt to restore the forests that the previous generation had cut down. The logging railroads in the Valley were abandoned, then the rails were pulled up in 1925. The outside world intrude again in 1932, however, in the form of West Virginia Route 32 which bisects the southern end of the Valley, connecting Davis to Harman. This is the only north-south highway in the Valley and it was along this route that the later development of the 20th century occurred. Electrification came to this part of the Valley in 1938.\n\nIn the late 1930s, the Civilian Conservation Corps undertook as one of its projects the reforestation of Canaan Mountain. In areas where there was no soil at all to work with, trucks were run from the Valley continuously bringing dark muck soil to the mountaintop. Spruce seedlings were packed in, each requiring a bushel or two of soil, and by the 1940s a new spruce forest had been established on the slopes overlooking the Valley. In 1943–44, as part of the West Virginia Maneuver Area, the U.S. Army used the Canaan Valley area as a practice artillery and mortar range and maneuver area before troops were sent to European Theater of Operations to fight in World War II.\n\nBeginning in 1950, the Ski Club of Washington, DC was developing ski slopes on the Valley side of Bald Knob of Cabin Mountain Within the decade, a slope on Cabin Mountain and a slope on Weiss Knob had been developed. Because of its protection from the sun, snow on that side of the mountain often remains until April or later.\n\nIn the early 1970s, Canaan Valley Resort State Park was created at the southern end of the Valley in an attempt to further develop a ski industry in the state. An 18-hole golf course was also constructed there at this time.\n\nIn 1970, Allegheny Power requested permits for the long-anticipated hydroelectric facility in the Valley. This power plant would have supplied electricity to major metropolitan areas of the northeastern United States. The proposal involved damming the Blackwater River with consequent flooding of about , including all of the wetland — roughly 25% of the Valley floor. Public objections were raised and, in the midst of the furor, the Valley was designated a National Natural Landmark by the U.S. Department of the Interior in December 1974. In 1977, the Federal Power Commission issued a license to Allegheny for construction of a pumped storage hydroelectric project, formally known as the Davis Power Project. Contentious public hearings ensued and the following year the project was denied a Clean Water Act permit by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The Corps' decision cited adverse impacts upon the Valley's wetlands, a relatively new concept at the time. Allegheny appealed the Corps' decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals which ruled that a Clean Water Act permit was in fact required for work to commence. The adverse ruling by the appeals court was itself appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court which in 1988 declined to hear the case. This represented the final nail in the coffin of the Davis Power Project.\n\nIn 1994, about of the Valley were purchased by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to establish a National Wildlife Refuge, the nation's 500th. In 2002, Allegheny – having kept development of most of the Valley at bay since its 1923 land purchase – finally sold its to the government to be added to the Refuge. With additional acquisitions, the present Canaan Valley National Wildlife Refuge is almost in extent.\n\nCanaan Valley shares much of the plant and animal life characteristic of the rest of the state, but its 40 botanical communities also include species otherwise found only in sub-arctic bogs and conifer forests much further north. It has been described by ecologists and conservationists as \"a bit of Canada gone astray\". The Valley includes several habitat types, but particularly noteworthy are its extensive wetlands, which are the largest in the entire central and southern Appalachian region; they form the second largest inland wetland area in the United States. These 8,400 or so acres of shrub swamp and bog represent approximately 40% of the wetland found in the state of West Virginia.\n\nOver 580 plant species have been documented in the Valley, notably various mosses, sedges and heathers, the large cranberry and the Canadian blueberry. Also present are the sundew, marsh marigold, jack-in-the-pulpit, starflower and Canadian lily-of-the-valley. Late August experiences impressive blooms of cotton grass, a sedge otherwise found mostly in Alaska and Canada.\n\nMore than 280 animal species have been recorded in the Valley.\n\nMammals<br>The valley and surrounding highlands provide some of the most southern pockets of snowshoe hare habitat. Other local mammals include beavers, muskrats, raccoons, opossums, and grey and red squirrels. Seen far less frequently are black bears, bobcats, coyotes, and red foxes. Of special note are large groups of white-tailed deer which can often be seen from the main roads. The deer have become so conditioned to human presence that they are no longer frightened; feeding and interacting with the deer is strongly discouraged.\n\nBirds<br>Birdlife is prolific, especially those species attracted by the valley's wetlands. These include ducks (wood ducks, mallards, black ducks), Canada geese and the great blue heron. These wetlands are the southernmost nesting site for the American bittern. Notable migratory songbirds finding seasonal homes in the valley include the golden-winged warbler, scarlet tanager, indigo bunting, and Canada warbler. Raptors include red-tailed hawks, goshawks and the occasional peregrine falcon and bald eagle.\n\nFish<br>Smallmouth bass and various other sunfish are found in the upper Blackwater River. Native brook trout and introduced rainbow trout are also found in some of the cold, clean streams of the area.\n\nThe Valley's unique climatic and natural features attract a steady flow of outdoor recreationalists. Camping, hiking, fishing (trout, bass), cross-country and downhill skiing, leaf-peeping, and wildlife viewing are popular outdoor activities. Upland game bird hunting (woodcock, ruffed grouse, common snipe, wild turkey) has long been popular in the Valley and is still permitted, even in the NWR, within season.\n\nIn addition to the two state parks and one wildlife refuge, the valley is home to two Alpine ski resorts (Canaan Valley Ski Resort and Timberline Four Seasons Resort) and one Nordic ski area (White Grass Touring Center).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4640317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4640317", "title": "Coromuel", "text": "Coromuel\n\nThe Coromuel wind is a weather phenomenon unique to the La Paz area of the Baja California peninsula and adjoining Gulf of California. Occurring primarily in the late spring and summer, it is a south to south-west wind that typically starts late in the afternoon or early evening and blows throughout the night into the mid-morning. It has a rapid onset and can be very strong especially in the Bay of La Paz.\n\nThe basic mechanism of the Coromuel winds is fairly clear. The winds are created when the cool marine air from the Pacific side of the peninsula are drawn over the desert to the relatively warmer side of the Gulf of California. It only occurs in the La Paz area because this is the only place on the peninsula that does not have a spine of mountains blocking such an air flow.\n\nThe winds receive their name after Samuel Cromwell, a sailor from the 19th century, believed to be a pirate. He visited La Paz often and, according to legend, hid one of his biggest treasures on the beach that carries his name. Since natives could not pronounce his surname, they called him \"Coromuel.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "19480341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19480341", "title": "ENBau", "text": "ENBau\n\nENBau is an initiative of Swiss universities for training in sustainable building with the goal of resource efficiency of buildings in the areas of energy, water, materials and processes.\n\nAt the same time it is the goal of the participation of the Swiss Confederation to the sustainability of this initiative design skills in planning, construction and operation of real estate to promote and reinforce the building as a system is implemented. \"ENBau\" is the abbreviation for energy and sustainability in construction.\n\nThe initiative was founded in 2007 from the University Lucerne (HSLU) together with the Berne University of Applied Sciences, University of Applied Sciences Northwestern Switzerland (FHNW), Zurich University of Applied Sciences (ZHAW) and the University of Applied Sciences Chur (HTW Chur). Participation is also given from the Conference of Cantonal Energy Directors Switzerland (EnDK) and the Swiss Federal Office of Energy (BFE) in Berne. President of the leading Cooperation Council is Prof. Peter Schürch; director of the ENBau office for sustainable construction at University Lucerne (HSLU) is Christoph Wagener Ph.D..\n\nThe aim of the initiative ENBau is a broad-based education campaign at higher levels in sustainable building, energy efficiency, renewable energies and the reduction of CO emissions based on the strategy of the 2000-watt society, the Swiss commitment to the Kyoto Protocol and the vision of the Green Building.\n\nThe organization of the study-programmes will be implemented through various modules, the academic qualifications are for the individual modules the CAS-degree (Certificate of Advanced Studies) and above all a \"Master of Advanced Studies (MAS) in sustainable building.\" The individual modules are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3008596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3008596", "title": "Environmental change", "text": "Environmental change\n\nEnvironmental change is a change or disturbance of the environment most often caused by human influences and natural ecological processes. Environmental changes can include any number of things, including natural disasters, human interferences, or animal interaction. Environmental change does not only encompass physical changes, but it can be things like an infestation of invasive species is also environmental changes.\n\n"}
{"id": "793635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=793635", "title": "Eoarchean", "text": "Eoarchean\n\nThe Eoarchean (; also spelled Eoarchaean) is the first era of the Archean Eon of the geologic record for which the Earth has a solid crust. It spans 400 million years from the end of the Hadean Eon 4 billion years ago (4000 Mya) to the start of the Paleoarchean Era 3600 Mya. The beginnings of life on Earth have been dated to this era and evidence of cyanobacteria date to 3500 Mya, just outside this era. At that time, the atmosphere was without oxygen and the pressure values ranged from 10 to 100 bar (around 10 to 100 atmospheres).\n\nThe Eoarchean was formerly officially unnamed and informally referred to as the first part of the \"Early Archean\" or Paleoarchean Era, both now obsolete names.\n\nThe International Commission on Stratigraphy now officially recognizes the Eoarchean Era as the\nfirst part of the Archaean Eon, preceded by the Hadean Eon, during which the Earth is believed to have been essentially molten.\n\nThe Eoarchaean's lower boundary or starting point of 4 Gya (4 billion years ago) is officially recognized by the International Commission on Stratigraphy.\n\nThe name comes from two Greek words: \"eos\" (dawn) and \"archaios\" (ancient). The first supercontinent Vaalbara appeared around the end of this period at about .\n\nA characteristic of the Eoarchean is that Earth possessed a firm crust for the first time. However, this crust may have been incomplete at many sites and areas of lava may have existed at the surface. The beginning of the Eoarchean is characterized by heavy asteroid bombardment within the inner solar system: the Late Heavy Bombardment. The largest Eoarchean rock formation is the Isua Greenstone Belt on the south-west coast of Greenland and dates from 3.8 billion years. The Acasta Gneiss within the Canadian Shield have been dated to be 4,031 Ma and are therefore the oldest preserved rock formations. In 2008, another rock formation was discovered in the Nuvvuagittuq greenstone belt in northern Québec Canada which has been dated to be . These formations are presently under intense investigation.\n\n3,850 million years old Greenland apatite shows evidence of C enrichment. This has sparked a debate whether there might have been photosynthetic life before 3.8 billion years.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25953564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25953564", "title": "Eurydice (Anouilh play)", "text": "Eurydice (Anouilh play)\n\nEurydice is a play by French writer Jean Anouilh, written in 1941. The story is set in the 1930s, among a troupe of travelling performers. It combines skepticism about romance in general and the intensity of the relationship between Orpheus and Eurydice with an other-worldly mysticism. The result is a heavily ironic modern retelling of the classical Orpheus myth. The play has also been performed under the title Point of Departure, a translation by Kitty Black, and on Broadway as Legend of Lovers, in a 1951 production by the Theatre Guild.\n\nEurydice is the daughter of the leading actress in a second-rate acting troupe. The troupe is waiting in a train station. Orphée is a violinist at the station restaurant. Eurydice and Orphée meet and fall in love instantly. Eurydice rejects the advances of a young man named Matthew—who is her lover and a fellow member of the troupe. Orphée is repulsed at the thought of Matthew having touched his love, but Eurydice reassures him that he and one other man who took her virginity are her only two previous lovers. Orphée notes that he can tell when Eurydice is lying because of the color of her eyes changes accordingly. Offstage, Matthew throws himself under a train in despair of Eurydice's rejection, and humbled by this news, the couple runs away together. They are followed by both M. Henri, a mysterious figure, and Dulac, the manager of the acting troupe. In a hotel room the next day, Eurydice and Orphée discuss the identity as something grounded in the past or in the present. Eurydice becomes uncomfortable with Orphée's insistence that the past matters a great amount. While Orphée is out of the room, Eurydice is visited by a hotel worker and given a mysterious letter. She reads it and leaves the hotel room when Orphée returns, claiming that she needs to run errands. After she exits, Dulac enters the room and reveals to Orphée that Eurydice is his mistress, too. Orphée does not believe him, but before he can confirm the truth with Eurydice, the two men receive word that she has died in a car crash—and that the car was not going to the market, but on its way out of town.\n\nM. Henri, the mysterious man, is moved to compassion for Orphée and makes a bargain with him: If Orphée wants his beloved back, it is possible; he simply has to wait at the train station beside her spirit until sunrise—but he cannot look into her eyes or she will die a second death. Eurydice is brought back to life. As they sit and wait, Orphée brings up the subject of Dulac. Eurydice insists that she never slept with him, but Orphée cannot know for sure without looking into her eyes. Driven crazy with uncertainty, he does so and she admits that she was in fact Dulac's lover. However, Dulac had blackmailed her into doing it every time, threatening to fire a young, orphaned stage manager working in the troupe. The police officer who found Eurydice's body enters, reading a letter that she wrote in the taxi to Orphée. It reveals that she planned to leave town because she was so in love with Orphée, and knew that her promiscuous past was something he could never overcome—despite the fact that her love for him had made her pure again. She dies once more, leaving Orphée miserable and alone with his mess of a father. Distraught, he talks with M. Henri, who convinces him that the perfect relationship he envisioned having with Eurydice is still possible...but only in death. In fact, if she hadn't died, M. Henri says, the relationship would have eventually disappointed him. Reassured that he will be with his true love in death, Orphée kills himself offstage. As ghosts, the couple reunites on stage, happy and in love forever more.\n\nBBC THIRD PROGRAMME, 5/2/51. Cast included Paul Scofield, Esme Percy and Sebastian Cabot. Held at The British Library National Sound Archive, Find Format: T11629WR C1\n"}
{"id": "23937577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23937577", "title": "Feathered Dinosaurs: The Origin of Birds", "text": "Feathered Dinosaurs: The Origin of Birds\n\nFeathered Dinosaurs: The Origin of Birds is a book by Australian palaeontologist John A. Long and Peter Schouten connecting feathered dinosaurs with the origin of birds. It was published in 2008 by CSIRO Press (Melbourne) and Oxford University Press. From the ISBN numbers, they appear to be separate printings.\n\nThere is a previous, different, book with the same title. It is by Thom and Laurie Holmes, and published by Enslow in 2002, .\n"}
{"id": "386965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=386965", "title": "Fluidized bed combustion", "text": "Fluidized bed combustion\n\nFluidized bed combustion (FBC) is a combustion technology used to burn solid fuels.\n\nIn its most basic form, fuel particles are suspended in a hot, bubbling fluidity bed of ash and other particulate materials (sand, limestone etc.) through which jets of air are blown to provide the oxygen required for combustion or gasification. The resultant fast and intimate mixing of gas and solids promotes rapid heat transfer and chemical reactions within the bed. FBC plants are capable of burning a variety of low-grade solid fuels, including most types of coal and woody biomass, at high efficiency and without the necessity for expensive fuel preparation (e.g., pulverising). In addition, for any given thermal duty, FBCs are smaller than the equivalent conventional furnace, so may offer significant advantages over the latter in terms of cost and flexibility.\n\nFBC reduces the amount of sulfur emitted in the form of SO emissions. Limestone is used to precipitate out sulfate during combustion, which also allows more efficient heat transfer from the boiler to the apparatus used to capture the heat energy (usually water tubes). The heated precipitate coming in direct contact with the tubes (heating by conduction) increases the efficiency. Since this allows coal plants to burn at cooler temperatures, less NO is also emitted. However, burning at low temperatures also causes increased polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon emissions. FBC boilers can burn fuels other than coal, and the lower temperatures of combustion (800 °C / 1500 °F) have other added benefits as well.\n\nThere are two reasons for the rapid increase of FBC in combustors. First, the liberty of choice in respect of fuels in general, not only the possibility of using fuels which are difficult to burn using other technologies, is an important advantage of fluidized bed combustion. The second reason, which has become increasingly important, is the possibility of achieving, during combustion, a low emission of nitric oxides and the possibility of removing sulfur in a simple manner by using limestone as bed material.\n\nFluidized-bed combustion evolved from efforts to find a combustion process able to control pollutant emissions without external emission controls (such as scrubbers-flue gas desulfurization). The technology burns fuel at temperatures of 1,400 to 1,700 °F (750-900 °C), well below the threshold where nitrogen oxides form (at approximately 2,500 °F / 1400 °C, the nitrogen and oxygen atoms in the combustion air combine to form nitrogen oxide pollutants); it also avoids the ash melting problems related to high combustion temperature. The mixing action of the fluidized bed brings the flue gases into contact with a sulfur-absorbing chemical, such as limestone or dolomite. More than 95% of the sulfur pollutants in coal can be captured inside the boiler by the sorbent. The reductions may be less substantial than they seem, however, as they coincide with dramatic increases in carbon (monoxide?) and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons emissions. \n\nCommercial FBC units operate at competitive efficiencies, cost less than today's conventional boiler units, and have NO and SO emissions below levels mandated by Federal standards. However, they have some disadvantages such as erosion on the tubes inside the boiler, uneven temperature distribution caused by clogs on the air inlet of the bed, long starting times reaching up to 48 hours in some cases.\n\n\nFBC systems fit into essentially two major groups, atmospheric systems (FBC) and pressurized systems (PFBC), and two minor subgroups, bubbling (BFB) and circulating fluidized bed (CFB).\n\nAtmospheric fluidized beds use limestone or dolomite to capture sulfur released by the combustion of coal. Jets of air suspend the mixture of sorbent and burning coal during combustion, converting the mixture into a suspension of red-hot particles that flow like a fluid. These boilers operate at atmospheric pressure.\n\nThe first-generation PFBC system also uses a sorbent and jets of air to suspend the mixture of sorbent and burning coal during combustion. However, these systems operate at elevated pressures and produce a high-pressure gas stream at temperatures that can drive a gas turbine. Steam generated from the heat in the fluidized bed is sent to a steam turbine, creating a highly efficient combined cycle system.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48355949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48355949", "title": "Fude Zhengshen", "text": "Fude Zhengshen\n\nFude Zhengshen (Hanzi=福德正神; pinyin=\"Fúdé zhèngshén\"; Hokkien:\"Hok Tek Ceng Sin\", lit. Righteous God of Virtue and Blessing) is a god of prosperity in Chinese mythology. He is often considered the same as Tu Di Gong or the name was considered as an official title of the later, but actually both of them are different beings. As one of the oldest god by age, he is often considered as Houtu.\n\nOne of the legend said that there was a man who lived under the reign of King Wu of Zhou; his name was \"Zhang Fu De\". He was born at 1143 BC on the second year of King Wu's reign, on the second day of second month of Chinese Calendar. He was a bright yet kind hearted as a kid. When he was 7 years old, he already learned old Chinese Classics and empathized the poor. Zhang Fu De became a government tax officer when he was 36 and he was a wise and good officer and people loved him. He died when he was 102 years old at 1236 BC on the reign of King Cheng of Zhou. But after three days, his deceased body had not rotten and amazed all the people.\n\nHis position was taken by Wei Chao that oppressed people by his greedy and cruelty character. Many people left their homeland and farms, and they wished to had a wise new officer just like Zhang Fu De. They worshiped him and called him Fude Zhengshen. One poor family had wished to built and altar for him, but they just could afford four pieces of bricks to built. They used three bricks as the walls and one as the roof, wrote down the name of Fude Zhengshen inside it and use a broken crock as tripod to put the incense. Unexpectedly, the poor family became rich and many people turned to believed on Zhang Fu De; built a temple for him. A poem said that the kindness of Zhang Fu De moved Mazu whose in turned sent Ba Xian to picked him up to heaven.\n\nBoth Fude Zhengshen and Tudigong are described as sitting white haired old men with white long beard. The main differences between the two deities are that Fude Zhengshen is a wealth deity with no connection to the earth while Tudigong are a group of low-ranking earth gods with limited length of service. While Fude Zhengshen's altar is placed high above the floor; Tudigong's altar are built just on the ground and usually accompanied by Tudipo his wife and Hushen or tiger god whose help him to ward of evil.\n"}
{"id": "1276100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1276100", "title": "GNS Science", "text": "GNS Science\n\nGNS Science (Māori: Te Pū Ao) is a New Zealand Crown Research Institute. It focuses on geology, geophysics (including seismology and volcanology), and nuclear science (particularly ion-beam technologies, isotope science and carbon dating).\n\nGNS Science was known as the Institute of Geological and Nuclear Sciences (IGNS) from 1992 to 2005. Originally part of the New Zealand Government's Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR), it was established as an independent organisation when the Crown Research Institutes were set up in 1992. As part of that process, GNS Science became semi-commercial, and operates as a government-owned company rather than as a government department. This change led to greater autonomy, accompanied by greater emphasis on financial viability. This is essential in the corporate environment, especially for the purchase and maintenance of research equipment and infrastructure, because the New Zealand public science funding system doesn't normally provide grants for these purposes. \n\nAs well as undertaking basic research, and operating the national geological hazards monitoring network (GeoNet) and the National Isotope Centre (NIC),\nGNS Science contracts its services to various private groups (notably energy companies) both in New Zealand and overseas, as well as to central and local government agencies, to provide scientific advice and information.\n\nGNS Science has its head office in Avalon (Lower Hutt), with other facilities in Gracefield, Dunedin and Wairakei.\n\n"}
{"id": "19045361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19045361", "title": "Harewood (material)", "text": "Harewood (material)\n\nThe term harewood or airwood originally described a type of maple wood with a curled or \"fiddleback\" figure, used to make the backs of stringed instruments. In 17th-century England it was imported from Germany. The earliest published use of the term is probably that in the 1670 edition of \"Sylva\":\nIn the 18th century airwood came to be used by marqueteurs; for most artificial colours they used holly, which takes vegetable dyes very well, but airwood was employed either in its natural off-white state or stained with iron sulphate to produce a range of silver and silver-grey hues. The reason that airwood was preferred to holly for this colour was that it gave a metallic sheen or lustre, while holly dyed by the same process turned a rather dead grey. The use of airwood in this way meant that by the 19th century it was associated specifically with that colour, and at the same time name gradually changed from airwood to harewood.\n\nIn a relatively short space of time the action of the chemicals, together with natural oxidization, turns harewood brown, sometimes with a greyish or greenish hue, which is how the wood now appears on old marquetry. The notion that harewood and other coloured woods can be produced by injecting dyes into the roots of trees appears to be an old wives' tale of some antiquity, perhaps propagated by marqueteurs to protect their trade secrets.\n"}
{"id": "1334076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1334076", "title": "Interplate earthquake", "text": "Interplate earthquake\n\nAn interplate earthquake is an earthquake that occurs at the boundary between two tectonic plates. Earthquakes of this type account for more than 90 percent of the total seismic energy released around the world. If one plate is trying to move past the other, they will be locked until sufficient stress builds up to cause the plates to slip relative to each other. The slipping process creates an earthquake with relative displacement on either side of the fault, resulting in seismic waves which travel through the Earth and along the Earth's surface. Relative plate motion can be lateral as along a transform fault boundary, vertical if along a convergent boundary (i.e. subduction or thrust/reverse faulting) or a divergent boundary (i.e. rift zone or normal faulting), and oblique, with horizontal and lateral components at the boundary. Interplate earthquakes associated at a subduction boundary are called megathrust earthquakes, which are the most powerful earthquakes.\n\nIntraplate earthquakes are often confused with interplate earthquakes, but are fundamentally different in origin, occurring within a single plate rather than between two tectonic plates on a plate boundary. The specifics of the mechanics by which they occur, as well as the intensity of the stress drop which occurs after the earthquake also differentiate the two types of events. Intraplate earthquakes have, on average, a higher stress drop than that of an interplate earthquake and generally higher intensity.\n\nMechanically, interplate earthquakes differ from other seismic events in that they are caused by motion at the boundary between two tectonic plates. An interplate earthquake event occurs when the accumulated stress at a tectonic plate boundary are released via brittle failure and displacement along the fault.\n\nThere are three types of plate boundaries to consider in the context of interplate earthquake events:\n\n\nScientists have determined that interplate earthquakes are sometimes preceded by an irregular occurrence of small tremors. Precursory tremors are often associated with slow slip along a plate boundary. These precursory tremors can sometimes be identified within days or weeks of an interplate earthquake event and allow researchers to anticipate interplate earthquakes and introduce strategies to mitigate damage.\n\nBeyond the inherent mechanical differences leading to interplate earthquake events and location of interplate earthquakes on plate boundaries, these seismic occurrences can be differentiated by other means.\n\nInterplate earthquakes differ from intraplate earthquakes in that the intensity of intraplate earthquakes exceed those of interplate earthquakes by nearly two points. Using the Modified Mercalli Intensity scale, earthquakes are categorized descriptively on a scale from I (not felt) to XII (total destruction) based on observed effects of the seismic event. While the ground accelerations of these two types of events are similar, the resulting intensity of intraplate earthquakes is significantly greater than that of interplate earthquakes due to the greater energy release (stress drop) across intraplate faults.\n\nStress drop is a measure of the stress across a fault before and after an earthquake rupture. While intraplate and interplate earthquakes obey similar length proportional scaling laws, interplate earthquakes exhibit stress drop values that are systematically smaller by a factor of 6. This suggests that the boundaries between plates are significantly weaker than the plates themselves. The reason for the measurable, systemic difference in stress drop between interplate and intraplate earthquakes is not entirely understood. However, intraplate earthquake models show that stress is distributed uniformly across the fault whereas interplate earthquakes have stress concentrated in specific areas along the boundary. Furthermore, interplate earthquakes release stress immediately, as compared to intraplate earthquakes which release stress gradually.\n\nBasal erosion, the process of removal of materials from the underside of the upper plate by the subducting plate, occurs at numerous, but not all, convergent margins. As the process of subduction erosion is not completely understood, a model has been proposed in which basal erosion is supplemented by cyclical, interplate earthquakes. The model suggests that erosion does not occur gradually in subduction zones, but rather in brief episodes of elevated seismicity along the plate boundary.\n\nEarthquakes are a major factor in the creation of tsunami waves. As interplate earthquakes result in an immediate release of stress along a fault, they produce significant seismic energy and can cause seafloor uplift, generating large waves as the energy from the sudden slip along the fault is transferred to the overlying water body. However, the majority of interplate earthquakes are not intense enough to create tidal waves, with most tsunamis being caused by intraplate earthquakes or tsunami earthquakes due to their comparatively slow stress release regimes and proximity to the surface of the Earth.\n\nInterplate earthquakes account for over 90% of all seismic energy released worldwide. As such, their effects are widespread and interplate earthquake events are numerous. Earthquakes of magnitudes higher than 5 in populated regions are considered highly dangerous and pose a direct threat to human life and property. Some of the largest, most devastating earthquakes that have occurred in the last century have been identified as interplate events. Some areas of the world that are particularly prone to interplate earthquakes due to the presence of prominent plate boundaries include the west coast of North America (especially California and Alaska), the northeastern Mediterranean region (Greece, Italy, and Turkey in particular), Iran, New Zealand, Indonesia, India, Japan, and parts of China.Major Earthquakes (Magnitude >= 9.0) Since 1900<mapframe latitude=\"36\" longitude=\"1\" zoom=\"1\" width=\"500\" height=\"300\" align=\"center\">\n</mapframe>\n\n"}
{"id": "1320850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1320850", "title": "John George Wood", "text": "John George Wood\n\nJohn George Wood, or Rev J. G. Wood, (21 July 1827 – 3 March 1889), was an English writer who popularised natural history with his writings.\n\nWood was born in London, son of the surgeon John Freeman Wood and Juliana Lisetta. He was educated at home, at Ashbourne grammar school and Merton College, Oxford (B.A., 1848, M.A., 1851), and then at Christ Church, where he worked for some time in the anatomical museum under Sir Henry Acland. In 1852 he became curate of the parish of St Thomas the Martyr, Oxford, and in 1854 was ordained priest; he also took up the post of chaplain to the Boatmen's Floating Chapel at Oxford. Among other benefices which he held, he was for a time chaplain to St. Bartholomew's Hospital. In 1878 Wood settled in Upper Norwood, where he lived until his death.\n\nIn 1854, Wood gave up his curacy to devote himself to writing on natural history, becoming a well-known parson-naturalist of the Victorian era. However, he continued to take on priestly work, as in 1858 he accepted a readership at Christ Church, Newgate Street, and was assistant-chaplain to St Bartholomew's Hospital, London, from 1856 until 1862. Between 1868 and 1876 he was precentor to the Canterbury Diocesan Choral Union.\n\nAfter 1876 he devoted himself to the production of books and lecturing on zoology, which he illustrated by drawing on a black-board or on large sheets of white paper with coloured crayons. These \"sketch lectures,\" as he called them, were very popular, and made his name widely known both in Great Britain and in the United States.\n\nWood gave occasional lectures from 1856. In 1879, however, he began lecturing as a second profession, and continued to lecture steadily until 1888 in the United Kingdom and elsewhere. He delivered the Lowell Lectures in Boston, Massachusetts, in 1883-4.\n\nWood was a prolific and successful natural history writer, though rather as a populariser than as a scientist. For example, his book \"Common objects of the country\" sold 100,000 copies in a week. Among his works are \"Common Objects of the Microscope\"; \"Illustrated Natural History\" (1853); \"Animal Traits and Characteristics\" (1860); \"Common Objects of the Sea Shore\" (1857); \"The Uncivilized Races, or Natural History of Man\" (1868) (to which Mark Twain refers in his humorous work \"Roughing It\"); \"Out of Doors\" (1874) (a book that was quoted by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle in his Sherlock Holmes story \"The Adventure of the Lion's Mane\"); \"Field Naturalist's Handbook\" (with T. Wood) (1879–80); books on gymnastics and sport; and an edition of Gilbert White's \"Natural History of Selborne\". He also edited \"The Boys Own Magazine\".\n\nWood died at Coventry on 3 March 1889.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19377279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19377279", "title": "Laser Doppler vibrometer", "text": "Laser Doppler vibrometer\n\nA laser Doppler vibrometer (LDV) is a scientific instrument that is used to make non-contact vibration measurements of a surface. The laser beam from the LDV is directed at the surface of interest, and the vibration amplitude and frequency are extracted from the Doppler shift of the reflected laser beam frequency due to the motion of the surface. The output of an LDV is generally a continuous analog voltage that is directly proportional to the target velocity component along the direction of the laser beam.\n\nSome advantages of an LDV over similar measurement devices such as an accelerometer are that the LDV can be directed at targets that are difficult to access, or that may be too small or too hot to attach a physical transducer. Also, the LDV makes the vibration measurement without mass-loading the target, which is especially important for MEMS devices.\n\nA vibrometer is generally a two beam laser interferometer that measures the frequency (or phase) difference between an internal reference beam and a test beam. The most common type of laser in an LDV is the helium–neon laser, although laser diodes, fiber lasers, and s are also used. The test beam is directed to the target, and scattered light from the target is collected and interfered with the reference beam on a photodetector, typically a photodiode. Most commercial vibrometers work in a heterodyne regime by adding a known frequency shift (typically 30–40 MHz) to one of the beams. This frequency shift is usually generated by a Bragg cell, or acousto-optic modulator.\n\nA schematic of a typical laser vibrometer is shown above. The beam from the laser, which has a frequency f, is divided into a reference beam and a test beam with a beamsplitter. The test beam then passes through the Bragg cell, which adds a frequency shift f. This frequency shifted beam then is directed to the target. The motion of the target adds a Doppler shift to the beam given by f = 2*v(t)*cos(α)/λ, where v(t) is the velocity of the target as a function of time, α is the angle between the laser beam and the velocity vector, and λ is the wavelength of the light.\n\nLight scatters from the target in all directions, but some portion of the light is collected by the LDV and reflected by the beamsplitter to the photodetector. This light has a frequency equal to f + f + f. This scattered light is combined with the reference beam at the photo-detector. The initial frequency of the laser is very high (> 10 Hz), which is higher than the response of the detector. The detector does respond, however, to the beat frequency between the two beams, which is at f + f (typically in the tens of MHz range).\n\nThe output of the photodetector is a standard frequency modulated (FM) signal, with the Bragg cell frequency as the carrier frequency, and the Doppler shift as the modulation frequency. This signal can be demodulated to derive the velocity vs. time of the vibrating target.\n\nLDVs are used in a wide variety of scientific, industrial, and medical applications. Some examples are provided below:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7534313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7534313", "title": "List of Canadian plants by family H", "text": "List of Canadian plants by family H\n\nMain page: List of Canadian plants by family\n\nFamilies:\nA | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I J K | L | M | N | O | P Q | R | S | T | U V W | X Y Z\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48968554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48968554", "title": "List of asteroid close approaches to Earth in 2016", "text": "List of asteroid close approaches to Earth in 2016\n\nBelow is the list of asteroid close approaches to Earth in 2016.\n\nA list of known near-Earth asteroid close approaches less than 1 lunar distance () from Earth in 2016.\n\nFor reference, the radius of Earth is approximately or 0.0166 Lunar distances.<br>The orbit of geosynchronous satellites, however, is or 0.110 Lunar distances. This year, 6 (possibly 7) asteroids traveled nearer than this, most notably , which approached a mere 1.25 Earth radii (8000 km) from the surface.\n\nWhile most asteroids on this list are confirmed, well-observed unconfirmed objects with a 50% or greater chance of passing within 1 LD of the Earth are included as well.\n\nThis list does not include any of the 32 objects that collided with earth in 2016, none of which were discovered in advance, but were recorded by sensors designed to detect detonation of nuclear devices (of the 32 objects detected 4 had an impact energy greater than that of a 1 kiloton device) .\n\nThe number of asteroids listed here are significantly less than those of asteroids that approach Earth for several reasons. Asteroids that approach Earth not only move faster, but are brighter and are easier to detect with modern surveys because:\nThese factors severely limit the amount of Moon-approaching asteroids, to a level many times lower than the asteroids detected passing as close to Earth.\n\nAn example list of near-Earth asteroids that passed more than 1 lunar distance (384,400 km or 0.00256 AU) from Earth in 2016.\n\nXF38FAC (Satellite 2015-007B) with an observation arc of only 17 minutes was estimated to have a chance of impacting Earth at 16:51 on 20 March 2016, but turned out to be the SpaceX Falcon 9 second stage that sent Deep Space Climate Observatory out to L1.\n\n"}
{"id": "16657861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16657861", "title": "List of mire landscapes in Switzerland", "text": "List of mire landscapes in Switzerland\n\nThe List of mire landscapes in Switzerland is a list of Swiss bogs and wetlands. It is from the \"Federal Inventory of Mire Landscapes of Particular Beauty and National Importance\" in Switzerland. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "38658387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38658387", "title": "List of nature centers in Nebraska", "text": "List of nature centers in Nebraska\n\nThis is a list of nature centers and environmental education centers in the state of Nebraska. \n\nTo use the sortable tables: click on the icons at the top of each column to sort that column in alphabetical order; click again for reverse alphabetical order.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36229644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36229644", "title": "List of pear cultivars", "text": "List of pear cultivars\n\nOver 3000 cultivars of the pear are known. The following is a list of the more common and important cultivars, with the year and place of origin (where documented) and an indication of whether the pears are for cooking, eating, or making perry. Those varieties marked have gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.\n\nCider pears (Perry pears) may be far too sour or bitter for fresh eating, but are used for making cider. Some pears (especially older ones from the U.S. and Canada) are used for both cider and eating purposes.\n"}
{"id": "24854118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24854118", "title": "Maritime impacts of volcanic eruptions", "text": "Maritime impacts of volcanic eruptions\n\nLess commonly publicized than the effects on aviation—and with less potential for catastrophe—maritime Impacts of volcanic eruptions are also dangerous. When a volcano erupts, large amounts of noxious gases, steam, rock, and ash are released into the atmosphere; fine ash can be transported thousands of miles from the volcano, while high concentrations of coarse particles fall out of the air near the volcano. The high concentrations of hazardous toxic gases are localized in the immediate vicinity of the volcano.\n\nUntil more recently public focus has mainly been on effects on aviation effects—ash, which can be undetectable, can cause an aircraft's engine to cut out with catastrophic potential. However, the July 2008 eruption of Okmok Volcano in Alaska triggered attention to the maritime effects. Employees at the National Weather Service Ocean Prediction Center's Ocean Applications Branch examined this event and partnered with the Alaska Volcano Observatory to compile information on the topic.\n\nAsh can affect marine transportation in many ways:\n\n\nCurrently undergoing an update, National Weather Service Instruction 10-311 will include new text guidance for the offshore and high seas text weather forecasts issued by the Ocean Prediction Center and Tropical Prediction Center's Tropical Analysis and Forecast Branch (TAFB).\n\nNot many cases of ash impact on ships have been documented. However, there are some notable recent anecdotes on the topic:\n\nThe 2008 Eruption of Chaitén Volcano in Chile prompted mass evacuations, in which the Chilean Navy participated. There are reports that the Chilean Navy encountered pumice rafts which were sucked into the salt water service system of the ship's propulsion system. This clogged sea strainers and overheated the engines, almost making the ships unable to escape.\n\nThe NOAA Ship \"Miller Freeman\" reported light accumulations of volcanic ash during the 2008 Okmok eruption in Dutch Harbor, Alaska. Due to volcanic-ash clogged ventilation systems, the ship remained in port until the event subsided.\n\nIn 1891 the Australian steam ship Catterthun reported steaming \"for miles through masses of volcanic debris\" after an eruption on the island of Sagir in the Indonesian archipelago. It was rumoured that all of the island's 12,000 inhabitants had perished in the eruption.\n\n"}
{"id": "16341458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16341458", "title": "Maximum residue limit", "text": "Maximum residue limit\n\nThe maximum residue limit (also maximum residue level, MRL), is the maximum amount of pesticide residue that is expected to remain on food products when a pesticide is used according to label directions, that will not be a concern to human health.\n\nThe MRL is usually determined by repeated (on the order of 10) field trials, where the crop has been treated according to good agricultural practice (GAP) and an appropriate pre harvest interval or withholding period has elapsed. For many pesticides this is set at the Limit of determination (LOD) – since only major pesticides have been evaluated and understanding of acceptable daily intake (ADI) is incomplete (i.e. producers or public bodies have not submitted MRL data – often because these were not required in the past). LOD can be considered a measure of presence/absence, but certain residues may not be quantifiable at very low levels. For this reason the limit of quantification (LOQ) is often used instead of the LOD. As a rule of thumb the LOQ is approximately two times the LOD. For substances that are not included in any of the annexes in EU regulations, a default MRL of 0.01 mg/kg normally applies.\n\nIt follows that adoption of GAP at the farm level must be a priority, and includes the withdrawal of obsolete pesticides. With increasingly sensitive detection equipment, a certain amount of pesticide residue will often be measured following field use. In the current regulatory environment, it would be wise for cocoa producers to focus only on pest control agents that are permitted for use in the EU and US. It should be stressed that MRLs are set on the basis of observations and not on ADIs.\n\nIf MRL of some drug is not known it is calculated by the formula:\n\nwhere SF is the safety factor\n\nIn some cases in the EU MRL's are also used for ornamental produce, and checked against MRL's for food crops. While this is a sound approach for the general environmental impact, it doesn't reflect potential exposure of people handling ornamentals. A swap test can eliminate this gap. MRL's for ornamental produce can sometimes result in a conflicting outcome because of the absence of pre harvest intervals (PHI) or withholding periods for ornamentals, specifically in crops where harvesting is continuous, like roses. This happens when a grower is following the label recommendations and the produce is sampled shortly after.\n\nThree key points are taken into consideration regarding MRL values in the EU regulation:\n1) the amounts of residues found in food must be safe for consumers and must be as low as possible,\n2) the European Commission fixes MRLs for all food and animal feed, and 3) the MRLs for all crops and all pesticides can be found in the MRL database on the Commission website.\n\n"}
{"id": "100262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100262", "title": "Mount Meru", "text": "Mount Meru\n\nMount Meru (Sanskrit: मेरु, Tibetan: ཪི་རྒྱལ་པོ་རི་རབ་, Sumeru, Sineru or Mahameru) is the sacred five-peaked mountain of Hindu, Jain, and Buddhist cosmology and is considered to be the center of all the physical, metaphysical and spiritual universes.\n\nMeru to which is added the approbatory prefix su-, results in the meaning \"Excellent Meru\", \"Wonderful Meru\" or \"Great Meru\". In languages, (Tamil:\"மகா மேரு பருவதம்\"),(Chinese: 須彌山 Xūmíshān; Pāli Meru; Burmese: မြင်းမိုရ် Myinmo), Khmer:ភ្នំព្រះសុមេរុ (\"Phnom Preah So Mae\"),(Sinhalese:\"මහා මේරු පර්වතය\").\n\nMany famous Hindu and similar Jain as well as Buddhist temples have been built as symbolic representations of this mountain. The \"Sumeru Throne\" 須彌座 xūmízuò style base is a common feature of Chinese pagodas. The highest point (the finial bud) on the pyatthat, a Burmese-style multi-tiered roof, represents Mount Meru.\n\nThe dimensions attributed to Mount Meru, all references to it being as a part of the Cosmic Ocean, with several statements that say, \"The Sun along with all the planets circle the mountain,\" make determining its location most difficult, according to most scholars.\n\nSome researchers identify Mount Meru or Sumeru with the Pamirs, northwest of Kashmir.\n\nThe Suryasiddhanta mentions that Mt. Meru lies in 'the middle of the Earth' (\"bhurva-madhya\") in the land of the Jambunad (Jambudvip). Narpatijayacharyā, a ninth-century text, based on mostly unpublished texts of Yāmal Tantr, mentions \" Prithvī-madhye shrūyate drishyate na tu\" ('Su-meru is heard to be in the middle of the Earth, but is not seen there'). \n\nThere exist several versions of cosmology in existing Hindu texts. In one of them, cosmologically, the Meru mountain was also described as being surrounded by Mandrachala Mountain to the east, Supasarva Mountain to the west, Kumuda Mountain to the north and Kailasha to the south.\n\nMount Meru of Hindu traditions has clearly mythical aspects, being described as 84,000 Yojana high (about , which would be 85 times the Earth's diameter, and notes that the Sun along with all the planets in the Solar System revolve around Mt. Meru as one unit.\n\nOne yojana can be taken to mean about 11.5 km (9 miles) though its magnitude seems to differ over time periods, e.g. the Earth's circumference is 3,200 yojanas according to Vārāhamihira and slightly less so in the Āryabhatiya, but is said to be 5,026.5 yojanas in the Suryasiddhānta. The Matsya Purana and the Bhāgvata Purāna along with some other Hindu texts consistently give the height of 84,000 yojanas to Mount Meru which translates into 672,000 miles or 1,082,000 kilometers.\n\nMount Meru was said to be the residence of King Padamja Brahma in antiquity.\n\nAccording to Jain cosmology, Mount Meru (or \"Sumeru\") is at the centre of the world surrounded by Jambūdvīpa, in form of a circle forming a diameter of 100,000 yojans. There are two sets of sun, moon and stars revolving around Mount Meru; while one set works, the other set rests behind Mount Meru.\n\nThis mythical mountain of gods was mentioned in Tantu Pagelaran, an Old Javanese manuscript written in the Kawi language from the 15th century Majapahit period. The manuscript describes the mythical origin of Java island, and the legend of the movement of portions of Mount Meru to Java. The manuscript explained that Batara Guru (Shiva) ordered the god Brahma and Vishnu to fill the Java island with human beings. However at that time Java island was floating freely on the ocean, always tumbling and shaking. To stop the island's movement, the gods decided to nail it to the Earth by moving the part of Mahameru in Jambudvipa (India) and attaching it to Java. The resulting mountain is Mount Semeru, the tallest mountain on Java.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54001090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54001090", "title": "Mycene (mythology)", "text": "Mycene (mythology)\n\nIn Greek mythology, Mycene or Mykene (Ancient Greek: Μυκήνη), was a daughter of Inachus, king of Argos, the sister of Phoroneus, and the wife of Arestor. She was said to be the eponym of Mycenae.\n\nHomer's \"Odyssey\", calling her \"Mycene of the fair crown\" mentions her in passing, along with Tyro and Alcmene, as \"women of old ... fair-tressed Achaean women\". Pausanias, citing the \"Megalai Ehoiai\", says that Mycene was the daughter of Inachus and the wife of Arestor, without naming the mother. However a scholiast on Homer's \"Odyssey\" says that Mycene was the daughter of Inachus and the Oceanid nymph Melia, and that, according to the Epic Cycle, Mycene and Arestor were the parents of Argus Panoptes. As the daughter of Inachus, she would have been therefore the sister of Phoroneus, who, according to Argive tradition, was the first man, or first inhabitant of Argos, who lived during the time of the Great Flood, associated with Deucalion.\n\nAccording to Pausanias—among several accounts of how the city Mycenea got its name—one was that Mycene gave \"her name to the city\".\n\n"}
{"id": "6196217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6196217", "title": "Okorokov effect", "text": "Okorokov effect\n\nThe Okorokov effect () is the name given to \"resonant coherent excitation\" of heavy ions moving in crystals under channeling conditions. V. Okorokov predicted this effect in 1965 and it was first observed by Sheldon Datz in 1978.\n"}
{"id": "4750171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4750171", "title": "Pacific Disaster Center", "text": "Pacific Disaster Center\n\nPacific Disaster Center (PDC) is an applied science, information and technology center, working to reduce disaster risks and impacts on life, property, and the economies worldwide.\n\nPDC's products and services are used to support sound decision making in disaster response and civil-military humanitarian assistance operations, as well as in disaster risk reduction, mitigation and planning. The Center is primarily engaged in:\n\nPDC was established by the U.S. Congress following Hurricane Iniki's devastation of the Hawaiian Island of Kauai in 1992, and became operational in 1996. Originally created to use information resources to mitigate the impacts of natural disasters in Hawai‘i, today PDC resources are used locally and globally by disaster and crisis management professionals, planners and executive decision makers, national governments, regional organizations, and International- and Non-Governmental Organizations (I/NGO).\n\nThe headquarters of PDC is located on the Island of Maui in Hawai‘i, with additional presence on the Island of Oahu, in Colorado and Washington, DC. PDC also maintains a project office at the Water Resource University in Hanoi, Vietnam. Since 2006, the University of Hawai‘i has been the managing partner of PDC.\n\nPDC is a public/private partnership sponsored by the PDC Program Office (OSD-Policy). The content of the information here does not necessarily reflect the position or policy of the U.S. Government and no official Government endorsement should be inferred.\n\nIn its earliest years, PDC did the initial development and deployment of various applications and web-based tools for the use of disaster management professionals and the general public. Those tools have been maintained and further developed since, and have been deployed to more organizations and nations. The Center developed its first computerized decision support system for disaster managers within the U.S. military working in the Caribbean. PDC also support for humanitarian efforts in Afghanistan in 2002. Event-related efforts up from 1996 through 2003 included providing direct information-technology support for operations related to Hurricane Jimena threatening Hawaii, flooding and landslides in American Samoa, Super Typhoon Pongsona in Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands, Super Typhoon Lupit in the Philippines and Federated States of Micronesia; and numerous wildfires on Maui.\n\nIn the 2004-2005 period, PDC provided a wide range of support to the countries impacted by the Great Sumatra Earthquake and Indian Ocean tsunami (December 26, 2004), initiating a line of work and establishing partnerships that have continued ever since. PDC also engaged in developing and hosting the Asia Pacific Natural Hazards Information Network (APNHIN); conducting a multi-hazard urban risk assessment for Marikina City, Philippines; mapping flood hazards and conducting risk assessments for the Mekong River Basin; providing the 10-member Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) with a Disaster Information Sharing and Communications Network (DISCNet); developing an earthquake atlas for Hawaii based on FEMA's HAZUS software; collaborating with the Maui High Performance Computing Center to develop an interactive, map-based interface for an ocean environmental database; customizing a wildfire rating system for Hawaii and mapping both wildfires and fire fuels; and developing a digital, geospatial database of critical infrastructure for Hawaii.\n\nThe efforts begun in immediate response to the Indian Ocean tsunami continued through the years 2005 and 2006, and eventually included a major technical assistance project, supported by USTDA, to provide Thailand with a decision support and early warning system. The growth of APNHIN and the ASEAN DISCNet continued, perhaps accelerated by ongoing tsunami-related activities. PDC collaborated with the South Pacific Applied Geoscience Commission to develop a Tsunami Awareness Kit for the Pacific Islands. At this time, PDC, in partnership with Earthquakes and Megacities Initiative, also built and launched a worldwide “knowledge base” pooling the resources of 20 international populations centers. The Center developed new products for Hawaii and its counties including remote information services for Maui and a statewide regional secure server. As PDC's capabilities increased, the Center was involved in more and more exercises in Hawaii and across the Pacific, and was called upon all the more frequently to support activities in response to disasters. In this period, some of the major events were Hurricane Katrina in the U.S., multiple tropical cyclones in the Central Pacific, a major landslide on Leyte Island in the Philippines, and sustained severe weather and flooding in Hawaii.\n\nDuring the years 2007-2009, while constantly improving and expanding the technical tools offered to disaster managers and the public, PDC also expanded the APNHIN program from Asia Pacific to global, rebranding it the Global Hazards Information Network (GHIN) and launched a worldwide Atlas, as well. Some of the major areas of focus for PDC were disaster planning and preparedness in Vietnam; tracking avian influenza, and later, Influenza A (H1N1) also called swine flu; assisting with responses to repeated (sometimes called “unprecedented”) severe weather in Hawaii; earthquakes each year in Indonesia, some of them spawning tsunamis; the Kiholo Bay earthquake in Hawaii; a major earthquake and tsunami in the Solomon Islands; and a fleet of tropical cyclones all across the Pacific, with many of them setting records of intensity and for the damage done. Among the notable storm events that engaged PDC most and longest were Tropical Cyclone Nargis, Burma, 2008; and a series of typhoons beginning with Ketsana, Philippines and throughout the region, 2009. For both of these events, PDC put a GIS and communications expert on the ground to work with United Nations teams and others, coordinating connections, developing maps and collaborating with PDC Maui to provide immediately useful maps, images and data products.\n\nIn the fall of 2009, the Pacific was plagued by disasters, and Pacific Disaster Center's resources were severely tested. In the six days from September 27 to October 1, the Center created and delivered products or otherwise provided direct support for the responses to Typhoon Ketsana, especially the storms devastating effects on Manila, Philippines; Typhoon Parma, which increased the disastrous flooding in Manila; Super Typhoon Melor, the worst effects of which were felt in the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands and in Japan; multiple earthquakes and a devastating tsunami in Samoa and American Samoa; and another cluster of earthquakes in West Sumatra, Indonesia. Just days after this “Week of Pacific Disasters,” there was an additional cluster of earthquakes, notably in Vanuatu where another tsunami was generated, and new tropical cyclones formed, as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "35879885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35879885", "title": "Pi Columbae", "text": "Pi Columbae\n\nThe Bayer designation Pi Columbae (π Col / π Columbae) may refer to either the star or star system in the constellation Columba:\n\n"}
{"id": "416369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=416369", "title": "Picea mariana", "text": "Picea mariana\n\nPicea mariana, the black spruce, is a North American species of spruce tree in the pine family. It is widespread across Canada, found in all 10 provinces and all 3 Arctic territories. Its range extends into northern parts of the United States: in Alaska, the Great Lakes region, and the upper Northeast. It is a frequent part of the biome known as taiga or boreal forest.\n\nThe Latin specific epithet \"mariana\" means “of the Virgin Mary”.\n\n\"Picea mariana\" is a slow-growing, small upright evergreen coniferous tree (rarely a shrub), having a straight trunk with little taper, a scruffy habit, and a narrow, pointed crown of short, compact, drooping branches with upturned tips. Through much of its range it averages tall with a trunk diameter at maturity, though occasional specimens can reach tall and diameter. The bark is thin, scaly, and grayish brown. The leaves are needle-like, long, stiff, four-sided, dark bluish green on the upper sides, paler glaucous green below. The cones are the smallest of all of the spruces, long and broad, spindle-shaped to nearly round, dark purple ripening red-brown, produced in dense clusters in the upper crown, opening at maturity but persisting for several years.\n\nNatural hybridization occurs regularly with the closely related \"Picea rubens\" (red spruce), and very rarely with \"Picea glauca\" (white spruce).\n\nIt differs from \"P. glauca\" in having a dense cover of small hairs on the bark of young branch tips, an often darker reddish-brown bark, shorter needles, smaller and rounder cones, and a preference for wetter lowland areas. Numerous differences in details of its needle and pollen morphology also exist but require careful microscopic examination to detect. From true firs, such as \"Abies balsamea\" (balsam fir), it differs in having pendulous cones, persistent woody leaf-bases, and four-angled needles, arranged all round the shoots.\n\nDue to the large difference between heartwood and sapwood moisture content, it is easy to distinguish these two wood characteristics in ultrasound images, which are widely used as a nondestructive technique to assess the internal condition of the tree and avoid useless log breakdown.\n\nOlder taxonomic synonyms include \"Abies mariana\", \"Picea brevifolia\", or \"Picea nigra\".\n\nGrowth varies with site quality. In swamp and muskeg it shows progressively slower growth rates from the edges toward the centre. The roots are shallow and wide spreading, resulting in susceptibility to windthrow. In the northern part of its range, ice pruned asymmetric black spruce are often seen with diminished foliage on the windward side. Tilted trees colloquially called \"drunken trees\" are associated with thawing of permafrost.\n\nIn the southern portion of its range it is found primarily on wet organic soils, but farther north its abundance on uplands increases. In the Great Lakes States it is most abundant in peat bogs and swamps, also on transitional sites between peatlands and uplands. In these areas it is rare on uplands, except in isolated areas of northern Minnesota and the Upper Peninsula of Michigan.\nMost stands are even-aged due to frequent fire intervals in black spruce forests. It commonly grows in pure stands on organic soils and in mixed stands on mineral soils. It is tolerant of nutrient-poor soils, and is commonly found on poorly drained acidic peatlands. It is considered a climax species over most of its range; however, some ecologists question whether black spruce forests truly attain climax because fires usually occur at 50 to 150 year intervals, while \"stable\" conditions may not be attained for several hundred years.\n\nThe frequent fire return interval, a natural fire ecology, perpetuates numerous successional communities. Throughout boreal North America, \"Betula papyrifera\" (paper birch) and \"Populus tremuloides\" (quaking aspen) are successional hardwoods that frequently invade burns in black spruce. Black spruce typically seeds in promptly after fire, and with the continued absence of fire, eventually dominates the hardwoods.\n\nIt is a pioneer that invades the sedge mat in filled-lake bogs, though often preceded slightly by \"Larix laricina\" (tamarack), with which it may in time form a stable forest cover in swamps. However, as the peat soil is gradually elevated by the accumulation of organic matter, and the fertility of the site improves, balsam fir and \"Thuja occidentalis\" (eastern arborvitae) eventually replaces black spruce and tamarack.\n\nThe spruce budworm, a moth larva, causes defoliation which kills trees if it occurs several years in a row, though black spruce is less susceptible than white spruce or balsam fir. Trees most at risk are those growing with balsam fir and white spruce.\n\nNumerous cultivars have been selected for use in parks and gardens. The cultivar \"P. mariana\" 'Nana' is a dwarf form which has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.\n\nBlack spruce is the provincial tree of Newfoundland and Labrador.\n\nThe timber is of low value due to the small size of the trees, but it is an important source of pulpwood and the primary source of it in Canada. Fast-food chopsticks are often made from black spruce.\n\nHowever, it is increasingly being used for making cross laminated timber by companies such as Nordic Structures, which allows the high strength due to the tight growth rings to be assembled into larger timbers.\n"}
{"id": "6327216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6327216", "title": "Pocosin", "text": "Pocosin\n\nPocosin is a type of palustrine wetland with deep, acidic, sandy, peat soils. Groundwater saturates the soil except during brief seasonal dry spells and during prolonged droughts. Pocosin soils are nutrient-deficient (oligotrophic), especially in phosphorus.\n\nPocosins occur in the southern portions of the Atlantic coastal plain of North America, spanning from southeastern Virginia, through North Carolina, and into South Carolina. However, the majority of pocosins are found in North Carolina. They occupy poorly drained higher ground between streams and floodplains. Seeps cause the inundation. There are often perched water tables underlying pocosins.\n\nShrub vegetation is common. Pocosins are sometimes called \"shrub bogs\". Pond pines (\"Pinus serotina\") dominate pocosin forests, but loblolly pine (\"Pinus taeda\") and longleaf pine (\"Pinus palustris\") are also associated with pocosins. Additionally, pocosins are home to rare and threatened plant species including Venus flytrap (\"Dionaea muscipula\") and sweet pitcher plant (\"Sarracenia rubra\").\n\nA distinction is sometimes made between short pocosins, which have shorter trees (less than ), deeper peat, and fewer soil nutrients, and tall pocosins, which have taller trees (greater than ), shallow peat, and more nutrient-rich soil. Where soil saturation is less frequent and peat depths shallower, pocosins transition into pine flatwoods. A loose definition of \"pocosin\" can include all shrub and forest bogs, as well as stands of Atlantic White Cedar (\"Chamaecyparis thyoides\") and loblolly pine on the Atlantic coastal plain. A stricter definition (promulgated by A. W. Kuchler) restricts pocosins to shrubby \"short pocosins\" and pond pine-forested \"tall pocosins\".\n\nPocosins are formed by the accumulation of organic matter, resembling black muck, that is built up over thousands of years. This accumulation of material causes the area to be highly acidic and nutrient-deficient. The thickness of the organic buildup varies depending on one's location within the pocosin. Near the edges the buildup can be several inches thick but toward the center it can be up to several feet thick. Vegetation on the pocosin varies throughout. At the edges more pond pine is found with an abundance of titi, zenobia (a shrub unique to pocosins), and greenbrier vines. Closer to the center thin, stunted trees are typically found however fewer shrubs and vines are present.\n\nPocosins are very important for birds living in cold climates during the winter months and migrate southward. The abundance of various types of available berries draws birds from colder areas.\n\nPocosin ecosystems are fire-adapted (pyrophytic). Pond pines exhibit serotiny, such that wildfire can create a pond pine seedbed in the soil. Wildfires in pocosins tend to be intense, sometimes burning deep into the peat, resulting in small lakes and ponds.\n\nWildfires occurring about once a decade tend to cause pond pines to dominate over other trees, and cane (\"Arundinaria\") rather than shrubs to dominate the understory. More frequent fires result in a pyrophytic shrub understory. Annual fires prevent shrub growth and thin the pond pine forest cover, creating a flooded savanna with grass, sedge, and herb groundcover.\n\nThe word \"pocosin\" comes from an Eastern Algonquian word meaning \"swamp-on-a-hill\", however, a more accurate description of a pocosin would be a \"raised bog\". The city of Poquoson, Virginia, located in the coastal plain of Virginia (see Tidewater region of Virginia), derives its name from this geographic feature.\n\n"}
{"id": "1138512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1138512", "title": "Prospective short-circuit current", "text": "Prospective short-circuit current\n\nThe prospective short-circuit current (PSCC), available fault current, or short-circuit making current is the highest electric current which can exist in a particular electrical system under short-circuit conditions. It is determined by the voltage and impedance of the supply system. It is of the order of a few thousand amperes for a standard domestic mains electrical installation, but may be as low as a few milliamperes in a separated extra-low voltage (SELV) system or as high as hundreds of thousands of amps in large industrial power systems. \n\nProtective devices such as circuit breakers and fuses must be selected with an interrupting rating that exceeds the prospective short-circuit current, if they are to safely protect the circuit from a fault. When a large electric current is interrupted an arc forms, and if the breaking capacity of a fuse or circuit breaker is exceeded, it will not extinguish the arc. Current will continue, resulting in damage to equipment, fire or explosion.\n\nIn designing domestic power installations the short-circuit current available on the electrical outlets should not be too high or too low. The effect of too high short-circuit current is discussed in the previous section. The short-circuit current should be around 20 times the rating of the circuit to ensure the branch circuit protection clears a fault quickly. Quick disconnecting is needed, because in live-ground short circuit the grounding pin potential on the power outlet can rise compared to the local earth (concrete floor, water pipe etc.) during short circuit to a dangerous voltage, which needs to be shut down quickly for safety. If the short-circuit current is lower than this figure, special precautions need to be taken to make sure that the system is safe; those usually include using a residual current device (sometimes called a ground fault interrupter) for extra protection.\n\nThe short-circuit current available on the electrical outlets is often tested when inspecting new electrical installations to make sure that the short-circuit current is within reasonable limits. A high short-circuit current on the outlet also shows that the resistance from the electrical panel to the outlet is low, so there won't be an unacceptably high voltage drop on the wires under normal load. \n\nThe resistance path is the total resistance back through the supply transformer; to measure this an engineer will use an \"earth fault loop impedance meter\". The application of a low voltage allows a small current to pass from the socket back through earth to the supply transformer and distribution board. The resistance measured can be used to calculate the short-circuit current.\n\nIn power transmission systems and industrial power systems, often the short-circuit current is calculated from nameplate impedances of connected equipment and the impedance of interconnecting wiring. For simple radial distribution systems with only a few elements, hand calculation is feasible, but computer software is generally used for more complex systems. Where rotating machines (generators and motors) are present in the system, the time-varying effect of their contribution to a short circuit may be evaluated. Stored energy in a generator may contribute much more current to a short circuit in the first few cycles than later on; this affects the interrupting rating selected for circuit breakers and fuses. An isolated generator may be specially designed to ensure it can source enough current on a short-circuit to allow subordinate overcurrent protection devices to operate properly. \n\nWhere an industrial system is fed from an electrical utility, the short circuit level at the point of connection may be specified, often with minimum and maximum values or values to be expected after system growth. This allows calculation by an industrial customer of its internal fault levels within its plant. If the prospective short-circuit current from the utility source is very large compared to the customer's system size, an \"infinite bus\" is assumed, with zero effective internal impedance; the only limit to the prospective short-circuit current is then the impedances after the defined \"infinite bus\". \n\nIn poly phase electrical systems, generally phase-to-phase, phase to ground (earth), and phase to neutral faults are examined, as well as a case where all three phases are short-circuited. Because impedances of cables or devices varies between phases, the prospective short-circuit current varies depending on the type of fault. Protection devices in the system must respond to all three cases. The technique of symmetrical components is used to simplify analysis of unsymmetrical faults in three-phase systems. \n\n"}
{"id": "43286417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43286417", "title": "Running Wild (novel)", "text": "Running Wild (novel)\n\nRunning Wild is a children's novel by Michael Morpurgo first published in 2009. It recounts the adventures of a boy who has to survive in the Indonesian jungle after being rescued from a tsunami by an elephant.\n\n\"Running Wild\" by Michael Morpurgo starts with a boy, Will Robert, riding an elephant along a beach, whilst on holiday in Indonesia. Will is grieving for his father, Robert, who died in the Iraq War. The elephant, Oona, is in an odd mood that day; her handler mentions that she refused to go into the sea for her usual morning dip. Suddenly, Oona charges off with Will clinging on for dear life. As they ascend a hill, Will witnesses the Boxing Day tsunami obliterating the beach where he had been moments earlier.\n\nOona heads into the jungle with Will on her back, and Will gradually learns to communicate with her and finds fruit and water enabling him to survive in the wild. He also remembers a long-ago lesson from his father, who taught him how to catch fish from a stream using his clothing as a net. However, Will struggles with biting insects and leeches. One day, there is a standoff between Oona and a tiger, and Will remembers the poem \"The Tyger\" by William Blake. Saying this poem out loud gives Will courage. This bravery is needed when Will is kidnapped by hunters, and finds out about threats to the rainforest through trade in exotic pets, animal furs, palm oil and timber\n\nThe idea for this book came from a newspaper article about Amber Owen, who was saved from the 2004 tsunami by an elephant whom she was riding at the time. Morpurgo had not traced Owen until 2016, and invited her and her family to the opening night in London. Morpurgo was also influenced by \"The Jungle Book\" and \"The Elephant's Child\", his two favourite stories from his childhood.\n\nWriting in the Guardian, Linda Newbery says: “With its emphasis on animal instincts and social behaviour, \"Running Wild\", part epic adventure, part plea for threatened habitats, will surely rank alongside his best-loved books.”\n"}
{"id": "1921562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1921562", "title": "Sierra de la Plata", "text": "Sierra de la Plata\n\nThe Sierra de la Plata (\"Silver Mountains\") was a mythical source of silver in the interior of South America. The legend began in the early 16th century when castaways from the Juan Díaz de Solís expedition heard indigenous stories of a mountain of silver in an inland region ruled by the so-called White King. The first European to lead an expedition in search of it was the castaway Aleixo Garcia, who crossed nearly the entire continent to reach the Andean altiplano. On his way back to the coast, Garcia died in an ambush by indigenous tribespeople in Paraguay, but survivors brought precious metals back to corroborate their story. The legend inspired other expeditions, all of which ended in failure.\n\nThe Río de la Plata (literally \"Silver River\") and the modern country of Argentina (from the Latin \"argentum\", \"silver\") both take their names from the myth. The legend of the Sierra de la Plata may have been based on the Cerro Rico de Potosí in Bolivia, which was discovered by a Spanish expedition traveling from Peru in 1545.\n\nThe legend of the White King and the Sierra de la Plata began with the expeditions of Juan Díaz de Solís along the coast of South America. On his first voyage in 1512, Solís followed the coast of Brazil until he came across an enormous estuary, the Río de la Plata, which Amerigo Vespucci had named the River Jordan on his 1501-02 expedition and the local inhabitants called Paranaguazu (\"river like the sea\" or \"great water\"). Solís decided to call it the Mar Dulce (\"Freshwater Sea\") due to its great size. After exploring the area and guessing it could be a strait connecting the Atlantic to the Pacific, Solís returned to Spain to stake his claim as conqueror and governor of the region. In 1516, he returned with the title of Captain General, but when Solís and his party landed on the eastern bank of the Río de la Plata, they were attacked and killed by Guaranís. Seeing this, the crew remaining on the ships decided to weigh anchor and return to Spain.\n\nOn their way back to Europe, one of the Solís expedition's vessels shipwrecked off the coast of Santa Catarina Island in what is now Brazil, leaving eighteen men stranded. One of them, the Portuguese explorer Aleixo Garcia, became friendly with the local Tupí-Guaranís, and through them learned of a great mountain of shining metals far into the mainland.\n\nGarcia left Santa Catarina along with other castaways and a large indigenous party to search for the Sierra de la Plata, crossing most of South America before reaching the Andean altiplano. This was supposedly the home of the White King, whose throne was entirely decorated with silver. After taking a few valuable pieces, the explorers headed back to the Brazilian coast, but along the way, Aleixo Garcia and the other Europeans were killed in a Payaguá ambush. The few Tupí-Guaranís who managed to escape told their story, showing off the silver pieces they had gotten from the realms of the White King.\n\nIn 1526, the Venetian explorer Sebastian Cabot left Spain with the goal of reaching the Molucca Islands in Indonesia by way of the Straits of Magellan. During a stopover in Pernambuco in northern Brazil, he first heard the story about a land rich in precious metals far inland, which could be reached via an enormous estuary further south. The estuary ended up being called the Río de la Plata for its role as the supposed natural gateway to the treasure. The legend captivated Cabot, so he abandoned his mission and decided to find the Sierra de la Plata, assuming that the royal authorities would be indulgent if he found enough silver.\n\nOn Santa Catarina, the castaways Melchor Rodríguez and Enrique Morales confirmed the stories, telling Cabot about Aleixo Garcia's expedition and showing him the metals that had been brought back. Cabot headed toward Río de la Plata, where he disembarked to repair two ships that had been damaged in a storm. There, the expedition met former cabin boy Francisco del Puerto, the sole survivor of Solís's landing party. Del Puerto, who was living with the Guaranís, also verified the legend and offered his services as guide and interpreter.\n\nAfter entering the Río de la Plata, the expedition divided in two: Cabot would continue up the Paraná River and Antón de Grajeda would travel up the Uruguay River. In 1527, at the confluence of the Paraná and Carcarañá Rivers, Cabot established the fort of Sancti Spiritu, the first European settlement in the Río de la Plata basin, and a future base for expeditions to the land of the White King. The party was suffering from hunger and sickness, and since they could not travel by land, they continued north upriver until they landed at an island they named Año Nuevo (\"New Year\"). There, they traded colored glass with the Timbús for food, but Cabot, thinking he had been shortchanged, ordered his men to kill them, burn their homes, and take their food.\n\nIn February 1529, they reached an indigenous town they called Santa Ana, where they were treated hospitably, fed well, and told rumors of other \"white men\" who were coming up the river behind them. Cabot, however, stuck to his plan and continued up the Paraguay River until strong currents prevented him from going further. There, he had a brigantine sent ahead under the command of Miguel de Rifos. Near the confluence of the Pilcomayo River, Rifos decided to disembark with a few men after being welcomed by some indigenous people on the shore. The Europeans headed through the forest to the village, where they were unexpectedly ambushed. Supposedly, it was a trap arranged by the local chief and Del Puerto, who wanted a larger share of the plunder.\n\nThose who had stayed in the brigantine managed to escape, and when they returned to Cabot, he decided to head back to Sancti Spiritu. On the way, he came across Diego García, the \"other white man\" he had been told about. García, like Cabot, had been commissioned to travel to the Moluccas, but had deserted when he heard the tales of the White King. After a brief dispute, the two captains decided to join forces to find the Sierra de la Plata, with Cabot in charge of the unified fleet.\n\nAt Sancti Spiritu, Captain Francisco César was chosen to explore the local region together with another fifteen soldiers. Three months later César returned with half of his men and a rumor that nearby was a great city full of riches that from then on would be known as the Ciudad de los Césares (\"City of the Caesars\").\n\nThe Sebastian Cabot expedition ended in failure when Cabot and Diego García made their next attempt to find the Sierra de la Plata. The local indigenous people took advantage of their absence to attack and destroy Fort Sancti Spiritu, killing many of his men. Low on morale, food, and supplies, Cabot and his crew were finally forced to give up their goal and return to Europe.\n\nIn 1534, King Charles I authorized Pedro de Mendoza to \"conquer and populate the lands and provinces around the Solís River, which some call the Plate\". With fourteen ships and some 1,200 men, it was at the time the largest and most important expedition that had left Europe for America.\n\nIn 1536 Pedro de Mendoza founded the port of Santa María de los Buenos Ayres, which was probably located in what is now the Parque Lezama in Buenos Aires. Resources were in short supply to support such a population, and after the Spaniards mistreated the local Querandís, they stopped supplying food to the settlement. Mendoza decided to send out two fleets in search of food: the first, led by his nephew Gonzalo de Mendoza, headed toward Brazil, and the second, led by Juan de Ayolas, went up the River Paraná with three ships and 270 men. Meanwhile, Mendoza ordered his brother Diego to take 300 soldiers and 30 cavalrymen to fight the Querandís. The battle was a failure. Diego de Mendoza was killed, and the Querandís began a long-lasting siege of Buenos Aires. Cut off from supplies, the settlers began to eat their horses and their dead. Finally, the Querandís withdrew, and in a few days, the Juan de Ayolas expedition returned with the news that they had managed to build a fort called Corpus Christi upriver near the modern-day town of Gaboto and had encountered some indigenous people who talked about the Sierra de la Plata. Pedro de Mendoza decided to travel to the fort with Ayolas and some 400 men.\n\nDuring the voyage, some 200 men died of sickness and hunger, and once they reached Corpus Christi, Mendoza consulted Cabot's map to find that they were still far from their destination. These major setbacks, along with the syphilis he had contracted, convinced Mendoza to return to Europe after a short stop in Buenos Aires.\n\nPedro de Mendoza died on the open sea on June 23, 1537. Juan de Ayolas, who had left Corpus Christi on October 14, 1536 with a fleet of three brigantines and 170 soldiers, inherited his title of \"adelantado\". Meanwhile, Buenos Aires had overcome its famine thanks to provisions Gonzalo de Mendoza brought from Brazil, and was left under the provisional command of Captain Francisco Ruiz Galán, who ordered the first planting of corn with the goal of making the fort self-sustainable.\n\nBefore Pedro de Mendoza left Buenos Aires, having no news of the Ayolas expedition, he sent Juan de Salazar Espinosa upriver in search of him. On August 15, 1537, Espinosa established the fort of Nuestra Señora de la Asunción (today Asunción, Paraguay) at the junction of the rivers Paraguay and Pilcomayo.\n\nMeanwhile, Juan de Ayolas was further up the river Paraguay in Payagua territory, where he met one of Aleixo Garcia's former companions, who told him how difficult the journey had been, due to all the gold and silver that weighed them down. Hearing this story, Ayolas decided to found the port of Candelaria on the spot (close to present-day Corumbá) and commissioned Domingo Martínez de Irala as provisional Lieutenant Governor until he returned from an overland expedition with 130 soldiers. After a short time, with no news of Ayola, Irala decided to abandon his post and return downriver to the fort of Asunción.\n\nHowever, the Juan de Ayolas expedition had successfully reached a mountainous area where precious metals were mined. On his return trip, his party suffered losses from skirmishes with indigenous people, and before he reached the Paraguay River, he ordered his men to bury most of the treasure they carried. When he returned, he was disappointed to find the port of Candelaria abandoned, so he accepted the invitation of the Payaguas to rest in their village. On his way there, a fight broke out between the Spaniards and the local people, and almost the entire expedition was killed, including Juan de Ayolas.\n\nAfter this, Domingo Martínez de Irala became the expedition's new leader, and he took up the goal of conquering the Sierra de la Plata and the lands of the White King. Irala decided to convert Asunción into the headquarters of the conquest, and ordered the colonists at Buenos Aires to tear down their buildings and move to Asunción. However, their newly planted corn was yielding a good crop, and they refused to move. Six months later, Irala disembarked at Buenos Aires to carry out the order. The first settlement at Buenos Aires was finally destroyed and abandoned in 1541.\n\nWhile Irala was preparing his expedition to the Sierra de la Plata, Spain had chosen Álvar Núñez Cabeza de Vaca as the official successor to Pedro de Mendoza's title of \"adelantado\". Known for his long residence among the Indians of modern-day Texas and northern Mexico, Cabeza de Vaca decided to cross Paraguay on foot rather than travel by boat up the Río de la Plata. In October 1541, his expedition left Santa Catalina, crossing jungles, mountains, and rivers to reach Asunción. In January 1542, they passed Iguazú Falls and on March 11, 1542, they reached Asunción, where they met Domingo Martínez de Irala.\n\nCabeza de Vaca clashed with the colonists at Asunción, calling the village a \"Moorish paradise,\" as each colonist had taken multiple indigenous women as wives.\n\nSoon, Cabeza de Vaca began to prepare an expedition to the lands of the White King. First, he sent Irala up the Paraguay River to see if it led to the Sierra de la Plata. He reached La Gaiba Lake in the Pantanal region, where he founded the Puerto de los Reyes. In September 1543, Cabeza de Vaca led his own expedition through the forest, but sickness and clashes with his officers, mostly Irala's men, convinced him to abandon his search and return to Asunción.\n\nWith his authority undermined and disliked by the colonists, the Captain General was soon overthrown. On April 25, 1544, Irala's men entered Cabeza de Vaca's house and took him prisoner. Eleven months later, he was sent to Spain on a ship under the command of Gonzalo de Mendoza. During the voyage, a violent storm broke out, which the superstitious sailors interpreted as divine punishment, so they decided to free all of their prisoners. In Spain, Cabeza de Vaca denounced the colonists' actions to the court, but the case was never resolved, and he never returned to the Americas.\n\nWith his authority confirmed, Domingo Martínez de Irala organized an expedition of 300 Spanish men and 3,000 indigenous men in search of the Sierra de la Plata. After a few battles with indigenous peoples, Irala's men reached a tribe of Macasís, who immediately began speaking to them in Spanish. They told them their lord was Pedro Anzures, and therefore they were out of their jurisdiction. Irala sent a party to speak with the governor of Peru, Pedro de la Gasca, who only ordered the expedition to go no further under pain of death, so they had no choice but to return to Asunción.\n\nIrala organized several other expeditions to legendary locations like the \"Land of Riches\", the \"Lake of El Dorado\", and \"Paititi\". All of these expeditions ended in failure, with great cost in human lives and materials. Meanwhile, the king named Juan de Sanabria as the new \"adelantado\" in the region, but he died during preparations and was replaced by his son Diego, who ended up staying in Europe even though several of his ships had already sailed. Finally, the crown decided to formalize Irala's de facto power, so as Irala was preparing his next expedition, a royal emissary arrived in Asunción, informing Irala that he had been named governor of the Governorate of New Andalusia (also known as the Governorate of the Río de la Plata and Paraguay) with express orders not to lead any more expeditions. With Buenos Aires destroyed and the Sierra de la Plata under another jurisdiction, Paraguay experienced a long period of isolation under Irala, who finally died in October 1556 at the age of 70.\n\nThe Sierra de la Plata legend likely corresponds to the Cerro Rico de Potosí in Bolivia, and the White King to the Inca Huayna Cápac. When Aleixo Garcia explored the region and discovered precious metals in the early 16th century, Spain had barely begun colonizing the coasts of Panama and Colombia, and Portugal had barely begun colonizing the coast of Brazil. Neither of the two crowns knew about the existence of the Inca Empire until Francisco Pizarro encountered it in 1528, traveling from the Pacific coast. King Charles I tried to solve conflicts between conquistadors by dividing South America into several governorates: New Castile, under Francisco Pizarro, which reached from the Santiago River, Ecuador to Pisco, Peru; New Toledo, under Diego de Almagro, from Pisco to Taltal, Chile; and New Andalusia, under Pedro de Mendoza, two hundred leagues south. Of these three, it was Almagro's men who first found the Cerro Rico de Potosí, leaving New Andalusia without any claim to the Sierra de la Plata.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39244097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39244097", "title": "Streetwise priest", "text": "Streetwise priest\n\nStreetwise priests (, , , ) are Roman Catholic priests who exercise their spiritual mandate by living in structures in direct contact with the \"street\", which is their mission land. Historical streetwise priests include Philip Neri (1515–1595) and John Bosco (1815–1888).\n\nRecently, the expression came to denote priests with reformist ideas, especially those involved in reform movements for social justice in a Christian context through service to the poor and marginalized. Their work covers various areas, such as education, marginalization, imprisonment, development cooperation, drug addictions, disabilities, orphans and abandoned children, prostitution, and homelessness.\n\nIn many cases, streetwise priests form groups, associations, or communities, especially inclusive to laics.\nDebates and conflicts with ecclesiastical hierarchy exist regarding Catholic social teaching and implementing the Second Vatican Council's doctrine.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1500558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1500558", "title": "Sucker hole", "text": "Sucker hole\n\nSucker hole is a colloquial term referring to a short spate of good weather that \"suckers\" sailors into leaving port just in time for a storm to resume at full force.\n\nIt can also refer to breaks in cloud cover, which lead astronomers into trying to make observations, only to have the cloud close in again.\n\n\"Sucker hole\" is also a term in aviation, which refers to a smaller form of the same phenomenon, but with the observer (the pilot) above the hole instead of below, and implying that the pilot wishes to fly through the hole. It is a very dangerous situation because the pilot cannot tell from above how deep the hole is, and indeed the hole may go all the way to the ground leaving the pilot no way to climb out of the hole once the decision has been made to fly into the hole.\n\n"}
{"id": "3309536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3309536", "title": "Sverdrup balance", "text": "Sverdrup balance\n\nThe Sverdrup balance, or Sverdrup relation, is a theoretical relationship between the wind stress exerted on the surface of the open ocean and the vertically integrated meridional (north-south) transport of ocean water.\n\nAside from the oscillatory motions associated with tidal flow, there are two primary causes of large scale flow in the ocean: \"(1)\" thermohaline processes, which induce motion by introducing changes at the surface in temperature and salinity, and therefore in seawater density, and \"(2)\" wind forcing. In the 1940s, when Harald Sverdrup was thinking about calculating the gross features of ocean circulation, he chose to consider exclusively the wind stress component of the forcing. As he says in his 1947 paper, in which he presented the Sverdrup relation, this is probably the more important of the two. After making the assumption that frictional dissipation is negligible, Sverdrup obtained the simple result that the meridional mass transport (the \"Sverdrup transport\") is proportional to the curl of the wind stress. This is known as the Sverdrup relation;\n\nHere,\n\nSverdrup balance may be thought of as a consistency relationship for flow which is dominated\nby the Earth's rotation. Such flow will be characterized by weak rates of spin compared\nto that of the earth.\nAny parcel at rest with respect to the surface of the earth must match the spin of the earth underneath it. Looking down on the earth at the north pole, this spin is in a counterclockwise direction, which is defined as \"positive\" rotation or vorticity. At the south pole it is in a clockwise direction, corresponding to \"negative\" rotation. Thus to move a parcel of fluid from the south to the north without causing it to spin, it is necessary to add sufficient (positive)\nrotation so as to keep it matched with the rotation of the earth underneath it. The left-hand side of \nthe Sverdrup equation represents the motion required to maintain this match between the absolute vorticity of a water column and the planetary vorticity, while\nthe right represents the applied force of the wind.\n\nThe Sverdrup relation can be derived from the linearized barotropic vorticity equation for steady motion:\n\nHere formula_5 is the geostrophic interior y-component (northward) and formula_6 is the z-component (upward) of the water velocity. In words, this equation says that as a vertical column of water is squashed, it moves toward the Equator; as it is stretched, it moves toward the pole. Assuming, as did Sverdrup, that there is a level below which motion ceases, the vorticity equation can be integrated from this level to the base of the Ekman surface layer to obtain:\n\nwhere formula_8 is seawater density, formula_9 is the geostrophic meridional mass transport and formula_10 is the vertical velocity at the base of the Ekman layer.\n\nThe driving force behind the vertical velocity formula_10 is the Ekman transport, which in the Northern (Southern) hemisphere is to the right (left) of the wind stress; thus a stress field with a positive (negative) curl leads to Ekman divergence (convergence), and water must rise from beneath to replace the old Ekman layer water. The expression for this \"Ekman pumping\" velocity is\n\nwhich, when combined with the previous equation and adding the Ekman transport, yields the Sverdrup relation.\n\nIn 1948 Henry Stommel proposed a circulation for the entire ocean depth by starting with the same equations as Sverdrup but adding bottom friction, and showed that the variation in Coriolis parameter with latitude results in a narrow western boundary current in ocean basins. Walter Munk in 1950 combined the results of Rossby (eddy viscosity), Sverdrup (upper ocean wind driven flow) and Stommel (western boundary current flow) and proposed a complete solution for the ocean circulation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57683021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57683021", "title": "Synchromysticism", "text": "Synchromysticism\n\nSynchromysticism, a portmanteau of synchronicity and mysticism, is \"the art of realising meaningful coincidences in the seemingly mundane with mystical or esoteric significance\". The word was coined by Jake Kotze in August 2006. Synchromysticism has been described as a phenomenon \"existing on the fringe of areas already considered fringe\". Steven Sutcliff and Carole Cusack describe synchromysticism as \"part artistic practice, part spiritual or metaphysical system, part conspiracy culture\", while Jason Horsley describes it as \"a form of postmodern animism\" that \"combines Jung's notion of meaningful coincidences with the quest for the divine, or self-actualization through experience of the divine.\"\n\nSynchronicity is a concept first introduced by analytical psychologist Carl Jung, which holds that events are \"meaningful coincidences\" if they occur with no causal relationship yet seem to be meaningfully related. Jung defined synchronicity as an \"acausal connecting (togetherness) principle\", \"meaningful coincidence\", and \"acausal parallelism.\"\n\nJung's belief was that, just as events may be connected by causality, they may also be connected by meaning. Jung used the concept in arguing for the existence of the paranormal. A believer in the paranormal, Arthur Koestler wrote extensively on synchronicity in his 1972 book \"The Roots of Coincidence\".\n\nMysticism, in turn, has been loosely defined as union with God or the Absolute. An influential proponent of this understanding was William James (1842–1910), who stated that \"in mystic states we both become one with the Absolute and we become aware of our oneness.\" James popularized this use of the term \"religious experience\" in his \"The Varieties of Religious Experience\", contributing to the interpretation of mysticism as a distinctive experience, comparable to sensory experiences. Religious experiences belong to the \"personal religion\", which he considered to be \"more fundamental than either theology or ecclesiasticism\".\n\nSynchromysticism, as the union of synchronicity and mysticism, is thus the sense of interconnectedness and oneness with reality that comes from a heightened and enhanced awareness of synchronicity. A form of \"postmodern animism\", Horsley argues that synchromysticism \"underlines a common theme beneath three apparently disparate areas: that of the religious quest for meaning or 'signs,' the shamanic/animistic relationship with Nature, and the schizophrenic's inability to distinguish between reality and fantasy.\"\n\nChaos magic as a contemporary magical practice consisting of \"techniques\" (most frequently, entering into an altered state of consciousness and manipulating symbols) to attain objective \"results\" in physical reality. From the beginning, the founders of chaos magic were explicit in stating that these \"results\" take the form of synchronicities, with Peter J. Carroll stating in \"Liber Null & Psychonaut\" (1978):\n\nAll magical paradigms partake of some form of action at a distance, be it distance in space or time or both... In magic this is called synchronicity. A mental event, perception, or an act of will occurs at the same time (synchronously) as an event in the material world... Of course, this can always be excused as coincidence, but most magicians would be quite content with being able to arrange coincidences.\n\nEssentially, chaos magic consists of a set of techniques for deliberately engineering synchronicities. As Carroll makes clear in later texts, magical \"results\" consist of \"meaningful coincidences\" or \"a series of events going somewhat improbably in the desired direction.\" Later chaos magicians have made the link between chaos magic and synchromysticism more overt. Gordon White, for example, writes in \"Synchromysticism as Kabbalah\": \n\nHow does the Technical Hermetica ‘work’? How did Ficino’s system of planetary ritual magic ‘work’? Simply put, both work because some things are associated with other things. Symbols recur, patterns repeat, sounds heard on a radio associate with similar outcomes in your life. An Animist universe speaks a language of symbol and synchronicity. To you, to itself, to the birds. This awareness underpins systems of magical correspondence the world over – such as practical Kabbalah or Technical Hermetica... These systems are indications that the universe speaks in a symbolic language... use them in a wider synchromystic context.\n\nElsewhere, White speculates that this may be \"the secret of kabbalistic apotheosis\" – \"hearing the language behind the words, connecting the things that aren't connected... a mystical framework for exploring and \"encouraging\" synchronicity.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "285243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=285243", "title": "Tephrite", "text": "Tephrite\n\nTephrite is an igneous, volcanic (extrusive) rock, with aphanitic to porphyritic texture. Mineral content is usually abundant feldspathoids (leucite or nepheline), plagioclase, and lesser alkali feldspar. Pyroxenes (clinopyroxenes) are common accessory minerals. Quartz and olivine are absent. Occurrences include leucite nepheline tephrite from Hamberg bei Neckarelz near Heidelberg, Germany, tephritic phonolite to phonolite in lapilli of Mount Vesuvius, Italy, phonolite-tephrite at Monte Vulture, Basilicata, Italy and basanite–tephrite intrusions in Namibia. \n"}
{"id": "957529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=957529", "title": "The Ancestor's Tale", "text": "The Ancestor's Tale\n\nThe Ancestor's Tale: A Pilgrimage to the Dawn of Life is a 2004 popular science book by Richard Dawkins, with contributions from Dawkins' research assistant Yan Wong. It follows the path of humans backwards through evolutionary history, meeting humanity's cousins as they converge on common ancestors. Dawkins' longest book to date, it was nominated for the 2005 Aventis Prize for Science Books.\n\nRichard Dawkins starts the tale by talking about history. He claims that evolution rhymes and patterns recur. He talks about our universe that has its own remarkable set of laws and constants which are capable of generating us and other organisms living on this planet. Not only it is capable of generating organisms, it is capable of evolving them too. \nHe claims that biological evolution has no privilege line of descent and no designated end. Evolution has arrived at many millions of interim ends and organisms are still evolving. He believes that evolution is directional, progressive and even predictable.\nHe also talks about how homo sapiens tend to think that they are more evolved than other, but that's not true, all the other species have gone through evolution too. They just have inherited different traits that helped them survive through natural selection. Dawkins claims that all species are equal.\nHe uses backward chronology, instead of forward chronology because in backward chronology, no matter where you start, you end up celebrating the unity of life. While going forward just extols diversity. In a backward chronology, the ancestors of any set of species must eventually meet at a particular geological moment. The last common ancestor is the one that they all share which he calls \"Concestor\". The oldest concestor is the grand ancestor of all surviving life forms on this planet.\nThere is a single concestor of all surviving life forms and its evidence is that all that have ever been examined share the same genetic code and the genetic code is too complex to have been invented twice. There is no sign of other independent origins of life and if new ones arise, they would probably be eaten by bacteria. \nThis book is a pilgrimage to discover human ancestors and as it progresses, it meets other pilgrims (organisms) who join humans in order as the book reaches the common ancestor that human share with them. Human only passes 40 rendezvous before hitting the origin of life itself. In each rendezvous, we find one particular ancestor, the concestor which has the same labeling number as the rendezvous. All the creatures in this tale are alive except for 2 classes. The two exceptions are Dodo and Handyman. \nDawkin’s book’s structure is inspired by Geoffrey Chaucer's The Canterbury Tales.\nAt each rendezvous point, Dawkins recounts tales concerning the cousin animals which are about to join the band of pilgrims. Every newly recruited species, genus or family has its own peculiar features, often ones that are relevant to human anatomy or otherwise interesting for humans. For instance, Dawkins discusses why the axolotl never needs to grow up, how new species come about, how hard it is to classify animals, and why our fish-like ancestors moved to the land. These peculiar features are studied and analysed using a newly introduced tool or method from evolutionary biology, carefully woven into a tale to illustrate how the Darwinian theory of evolution explains all diversity in nature.\n\nEven though the book is best read sequentially, every chapter can also be read independently as a self-contained tale with an emphasis on a particular aspect of modern biology. As a whole, the book elaborates on all major topics in evolution.\n\nDawkins also tells personal stories about his childhood and time at university. He talks with fondness about a tiny bushbaby he kept as a child in Malawi (Nyasaland). He described his surprise when he learned that the closest living relatives to the hippos are the whales.\n\nThe book was produced in two hardback versions: a British one with extensive colour illustrations (by Weidenfeld & Nicolson), and an American one with a reduced number of black-and-white illustrations (by Houghton Mifflin). Paperback versions and an abridged audio version (narrated by Dawkins and his wife Lalla Ward) have also been published.\n\nThe book is dedicated to Dawkins' friend and mentor, population geneticist John Maynard Smith, who died shortly before the book went to press.\n\nDawkins uses the term \"concestor\"—coined by Nicky Warren—for the most recent common ancestor at each rendezvous point. At each rendezvous point, we meet the concestor of ourselves and the listed species or collection of species. This does not mean that the concestor was much like those creatures; after the \"rendezvous\", our fellow \"pilgrims\" have had as much time to evolve and change as we have. Only creatures alive at the time of the book's writing join us at each rendezvous point. Except for a few special cases, numerous extinct species and families such as the non-avian dinosaurs are excluded from the pilgrimage.\n\nNote: From the lancelets onward, Dawkins only provides dates under duress stating that, \"dating becomes so difficult and controversial that my courage fails me\".\n\nIn what Dawkins calls the \"Great Historic Rendezvous\", he describes the significantly important event of endosymbiosis, which results in the beginnings of eukaryotic cells. In his estimates, this occurred in two or three steps, roughly two billion years ago. Firstly, bacteria, perhaps related to \"Rickettsia\", entered proto-protozoan cells. For one reason or another, the bacteria were not digested and did not kill the cell. The cell offered protection to the bacteria, and the bacteria provided energy to the cell, resulting in a mutualistic symbiotic relationship. This is the speculated origin of mitochondria. Subsequently, photosynthetic bacteria (thought to be related to cyanobacteria) entered some, but not all, of these mitochondria-containing cells. These ancient bacteria evolved to become chloroplasts, and the cells became the Plant and Algal lineages. Meanwhile, the cells which this second endosymbiotic relationship did not occur in went on to form the Kingdoms Fungi and Animalia, as well as various Protozoa.\n\nChloroplasts and mitochondria have their own genomes, and they replicate independent of the cell in which they live. Dawkins acknowledges how the endosymbiotic theory proposed by Lynn Margulis is now virtually universally accepted.\n\n\"The Ancestor's Tale\" was popular when first published. Carl Zimmer of New York Times stated that the book is one of the best to understand Evolutionary trees.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35528221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35528221", "title": "The Task Force for Global Health", "text": "The Task Force for Global Health\n\nThe Task Force for Global Health is an international, nonprofit organization that works to improve health of people most in need, primarily in developing countries. Founded in 1984 by global health pioneer Dr. William Foege, The Task Force consists of eight programs focused on neglected tropical diseases, vaccines, field epidemiology, public health informatics, and health workforce development. Those programs include the African Health Workforce Project, the Center for Vaccine Equity, Children Without Worms, International Trachoma Initiative, Mectizan Donation Program, Neglected Tropical Diseases Support Center, Public Health Informatics Institute, and TEPHINET. The Task Force works in partnership with ministries of health and hundreds of organizations, including major pharmaceutical companies that donate billions of dollars annually in essential medicines. Major funders include the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, CDC, WHO, Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, de Beaumont Foundation, United States Agency for International Development, Sightsavers, Pfizer, Merck & Co., Johnson & Johnson, and GlaxoSmithKline. The Task Force is affiliated with Emory University, headquartered in Decatur, Georgia, a town in metro Atlanta, and has regional offices in Guatemala and Ethiopia. The Task Force currently supports work in 154 countries.\n\nThe Task Force for Global Health received the 2016 Conrad N. Hilton Humanitarian Prize during a symposium titled \"The Future of Humanitarian Action\" held at the Waldorf Astoria in New York City. The Task Force was selected by a panel of independent international jurors for having made \"contributions to improving the health of people living in extreme poverty.\".\n\nThe organization was co-founded by global health pioneer and former CDC Director, Dr. William Foege and two of his former CDC colleagues, Carol Walters and Bill Watson. It was founded in 1984 as The Task Force for Child Survival. The Task Force was initially launched to foster collaboration among leading health and development agencies. Under the leadership of Dr. Foege, The Task Force brought together World Bank Group, The Rockefeller Foundation, The United Nations Development Programme, WHO, and UNICEF, WHO to raise childhood immunization rates. In 1984, only 20 percent of children worldwide were receiving immunizations and 12,000 children, mostly in the world's poorest countries, were dying every day. By 1990, The Task Force had raised childhood immunization rates to 80 percent globally. Since then, The Task Force has used its strength and credibility in collaboration to positively affect a broad range of health issues affecting the world's poor. In 2015, The Task Force celebrated 30 years of contributions to global health at an event that included World Bank Group President Jim Yong Kim.\n\nThe Task Force works with hundreds of partners to control and eliminate neglected tropical diseases and increase access to medicines and vaccines for multi-drug-resistant tuberculosis, poliomyelitis, influenza, and cholera. Beginning with the Mectizan Donation Program, The Task Force is credited with working with the pharmaceutical industry to donate billions of dollars annually in essential medicines for the control and elimination of neglected tropical diseases.\n\nCollaboration, health equity, and social justice are the cornerstones of all Task Force programs. The organization is a major partner in the global effort to eliminate three neglected tropical diseases by 2025—blinding trachoma, river blindness, and lymphatic filariasis—which collectively threaten hundreds of millions of people each year with blindness, disfigurement, and death.\n\nInformation and laboratory technologies are vital tools in The Task Force's work to control and eliminate diseases and increase access to quality health care for people in developing countries. Using a smartphone-based data collection system, The Task Force maps the prevalence of neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) to determine where interventions should be implemented. It uses portable molecular technology and tablet-based systems to detect and diagnose NTDs within populations. It also uses diverse technologies to help developing countries manage their healthcare workforce in order to meet the health needs of their populations.\n\nIn 2015, The Task Force's Public Health Informatics Institute was named a partner on a new Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation-funded initiative called the Child Health and Mortality Prevention Surveillance Program (CHAMPS) that aims to understand and ultimately address the causes of death for children under 5 in developing countries.\n\nIn 2016, the Task Force helped launch a program called Digital Bridge which is developing an electronic case reporting system to improve information exchange between the public health and healthcare sectors.\n\nIn 2016, The Task Force reached an agreement to purchase a DeKalb County government building in downtown Decatur for a larger headquarters. The Task Force has begun examining how it might help address the growing epidemic of non-communicable diseases (NCDs) in developing countries.\n"}
{"id": "53100222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53100222", "title": "Triple-twin", "text": "Triple-twin\n\nThe Triple-twin was a type of double vacuum triode for audio power amplifiers. A triple-twin contained two dissimilar, directly coupled triodes in a common envelope. To maximize power yield, the output triode was intended to be positively biased, and thus required substantial grid current. This current was supplied by the input triode, configured as a cathode follower. The cathode of the input triode was hard-wired to the control grid of the output triode inside the envelope.\n\nThe first tube of the family, type 295, was introduced by Cable Radio Tube Corporation under the \"Speed\" label in March 1932. The company advertised 295 as being twice as powerful as the type 47 pentode, and three times as powerful as the type 45 directly heated triode (the most common output tube of the period) - hence the name \"triple-twin\". Maximum output power reached 4,5 W at 5% distortion into 4 kOhm load; at 2 kOhm and 10 kOhm loads distortion increased to 8%. The 295 required +250 V plate voltage, and around +6 V positive grid bias.\n\nThe original type 295 had a directly heated output section, and an indirectly heated input section. The 2B6 tube, introduced in 1933, had similar power ratings, but had both cathodes indirectly heated. The Sylvania 6N6G, introduced in 1936, had both cathodes indirectly heated, and also had the cathode follower resistor hard-wired inside the envelope. A single-ended 6N6G amplifier required only one external component, the output transformer; currents and bias voltages were set by the internal resistor. A push-pull 6N6G amplifier required only two tubes and two transformers (input and output).\n\nDespite massive advertising, the triple-twin was a market failure. The industry preferred general-purpose tube types, and the triple-twin was obsolete by the end of the 1930s.\n"}
{"id": "6858154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6858154", "title": "World aeronautical chart", "text": "World aeronautical chart\n\nA World Aeronautical Chart (WAC) is a type of aeronautical chart used for navigation by pilots of moderate speed aircraft and aircraft at high altitudes. They are at a scale of 1:1,000,000 (about 1 inch = 13.7 nautical miles or 16 statute miles).\n\nThese charts are similar to sectional charts, and the symbols are the same. However, there is less detail at the smaller scale, so it is seldom used for visual flight rules flight at slower speeds or for local flights. WACs show topographic information, airports and radio navigational aids. They are useful for strategic flight planning, where a view of the entire flight area is useful.\n\nThese charts are revised annually, except for several Alaskan charts and the Mexican/Caribbean charts which are revised every 2 years. Australian WAC charts are amended every 3 to 5 years. On June 25, 2015, the USA's Federal Aviation Administration announced the discontinuation of all WACs covering the USA.\n\nA set of 12 WACs covered the continental United States and 8 others covered Alaska. Canadian airspace is covered by a set of 18 WACs. The 43 Australian WACs are indexed according to a geographic name or a corresponding 4-digit number.\n\nUnlike sectional charts, North American WACs are named according to an international \"grid system\" having a combination of letters and numbers. For example, WAC CF-16 covered the Pacific Northwest, and E-15 covers the British Columbia area. Letters progress from A at the north pole to U at the southern tip of Argentina. The numbers generally progress from 1 at the Greenwich meridian and increasing to the east, to a maximum of 29, depending upon the number of charts required at that latitude.\n\n\nSource: FAA Pilot's Handbook\n"}
