{"id": "3207583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3207583", "title": "Active Pensionists", "text": "Active Pensionists\n\nActive Pensionists (Danish: \"Aktive Pensionister\") was a political party in Denmark.\n\nActive Pensionists was established in 1997. The party ran in 2001 in Copenhagen (507 votes), Frederikshavn (212 votes) and Skagen Municipality (19 votes). They did not get any municipal seats.\n\nIn 2005, Active Pensionists ran in Greve Municipality (43 votes), Vejle Municipality (158 votes), Fredericia Municipality (679) and Copenhagen Municipality (232 votes). They did not manage to get any municipal seats.\n\nThe party has not run for municipal elections since 2005, and is assumedly dissolved. \n"}
{"id": "31614137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31614137", "title": "Chiran Peace Museum for Kamikaze Pilots", "text": "Chiran Peace Museum for Kamikaze Pilots\n\nThe airbase at Chiran, Minamikyūshū, on the Satsuma Peninsula of Kagoshima, Japan, served as the departure point for hundreds of Special Attack or kamikaze sorties launched in the final months of World War II. A peace museum dedicated to the pilots, the , now marks the site.\n\nThe Imperial Japanese Army airbase at Chiran, Kagoshima, with its two runways, was the principal kamikaze base during the Battle of Okinawa. Of the 1,036 army aviators who died in these attacks, 439 were from Chiran. Of the total number, 335 were classed as \"young boy pilots\" (少年飛行兵).\n\nIn 1975 a museum was built to commemorate the lives of the pilots and document their \"patriotic efforts for peace\". Enlarged in 1986, exhibits include four planes: a Nakajima Ki-43 Hayabusa, a 1943 Kawasaki Ki-61 Hien, a 1944 Nakajima Ki-84 Hayate, and a Mitsubishi Zero recovered from the seabed in 1980. On a personal level, the exhibit includes letters, poems, essays, testaments, and other artefacts; as well as photographs of the 1,036 pilots, arranged in the order in which they died. There is also the grand piano on which two of the pilots played the \"Moonlight Sonata\" the night before their final mission.\n\nThe is a temple dedicated to the \"Special Attack Goddess of Mercy\". The image enshrined within is a 1.8m replica statue of the Yumechigai Kannon (夢違観音 Dream-Changing Kannon), a National Treasure at Hōryū-ji. The names of the kamikaze pilots are written on paper within her womb. It was erected in 1955 thanks to donations collected by Tome Torihama, who ran the Tomiya Inn frequented by the pilots, and who sought to redeem their memory after the war. Stone lanterns dedicated to the pilots line the approach to the museum.\n\n\n\"The Firefly\" (ホタル \"Hotaru\"): popular Japanese film of 2001, directed by Yasuo Furuhata and centered around the character of Tome Torihama, who ran the Tomiya Inn in Chiran and treated the young kamikaze pilots as if they were her own sons.\n\n\"I go to die for you\" (俺は、君のためにこそ死ににいく \"Ore wa, kimi no tame ni koso shini ni iku\"): 2007 film with screenplay by Tokyo Governor Shintaro Ishihara, based on his conversations with Tome Torihama, who died in 1992.\n\nOn 15 August each year, the anniversary of the date on which Emperor Hirohito announced the Japanese surrender, right-wing groups drive through Chiran in trucks blaring nationalist messages and songs. Over the rest of the year, up to a million visitors come to pay tribute to the fallen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2331607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2331607", "title": "Community of Sant'Egidio", "text": "Community of Sant'Egidio\n\nThe Community of Sant'Egidio () is a Christian community that is officially recognized by the Catholic Church as a \"Church public lay association\". It claims 50,000 members in more than 70 countries. Its main activities are:\n\n\nCreated as an NGO in 1968 it acts in more than 70 countries.\n\nToday the Community has expanded greatly since its creator Andrea Riccardi created it in 1968 and now has more than 50,000 members.\n\nThe Community of Sant'Egidio was founded in Rome in 1968 by a group of Roman high-school students led by Andrea Riccardi in the wake of the Second Vatican Council under the papacy of Pope Paul VI. It is named after the Roman Church of Sant'Egidio (Italian for Saint Giles) in Trastevere, its first permanent meeting place. Since 1968, the community has gathered each night to pray and read from the Bible, reflecting on the Gospel, eventually spreading throughout the world with a mission of helping those in need.\n\nIn 1973, Sant Egidio founded his first church in Trastevere (the first church in that community) and from that moment the community of Sant'Egidio grew all over the world with the strange custom of daily community prayer. From 1977-1978 began to expand between the different Italian cities and in the 80s began to spread across the different continents. On May 18, 1986, the council of the laity named the community of Sant'Egidio as \"an international association of the faithful of pontifical right\".\n\nTheir activities include setting up refuges for the old, hospices for AIDS patients, and printing a handbook titled \"Where to Eat, Sleep, and Wash in Rome\" as gifts to the homeless. The lay Catholic Community of Sant'Egidio is among global leaders on HIV/AIDS, running programs across Africa, pushing scientific research \"inter alia\" on mother-child transmission, and advocating passionately that everyone deserves the best care.\n\nThe charitable efforts of Sant'Egidio also led it to be a well-regarded mediator in peace negotiations. In the late 1980s, the Community came to the realization that their humanitarian efforts in Mozambique, then torn by the Mozambican Civil War, could not succeed without peace. In 1990, the Community was accepted by the ruling FRELIMO and rebel Mozambican National Resistance as a mediator, playing a key role in the Rome General Peace Accords signed in 1992. They continue peace initiatives in Algeria (notably the 1995 Sant'Egidio Platform), the Balkans, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and other areas, in the belief that war is the \"mother of every poverty\".\n\nThe community of Sant'Egidio shows its commitment against the death penalty by maintaining penpalships with many Death convicts, collecting signatures for a moratorium of executions and inviting cities around the world to take part in the Cities for Life Day. One of the members of the community spearheading the movement against the death penalty, Mario Marazziti, published an English-language book on the topic, 13 Ways of Looking at the Death Penalty.\n\nThe current president of the Community is Marco Impagliazzo.\n\nBeing a large community there are several positions:\n\nThe President and the Council of Presidency are elected every five years by the General Assembly of representatives of all nuclei of communities (if there are several communities in that country).\n\nAround the world there are many communities of San Egidio, each with their respective activities, but all united by religion, Although there are very different cultures in different parts of the world are dedicated to helping those in need especially to third world countries like (Mozambique, Democratic Republic of Congo, Bolivia), however, also help countries that are not so poor but with major economic differences or to help refugees. It is active in:\n\nThe community of Sant'Egidio has helped a number of countries and made large collections of money for the poor, as well as creating soup kitchens, language schools for migrants, medical centers, or centers to provide help, centers for the disabled and countless charities . Although in countries with problems this NGO always helps them in what they can in giving them food and place to live. There are several Volunteer programs that are dedicated to accompanying those people who are alone or do not have anyone to go see them.\n\nLet the whole world have their point of view well on religion and its happiness even if they do not have many privileges.\n\nThe Community of Sant'Egidio has received numerous honors and recognitions. These include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38163102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38163102", "title": "Corruption in Bangladesh", "text": "Corruption in Bangladesh\n\nCorruption in Bangladesh has been a continuing problem. According to all major ranking institutions, Bangladesh routinely finds itself among the most corrupt countries in the world.\n\nTransparency International's 2017 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 143rd place out of 180 countries. The public sectors conducted by the Government are the most corrupted sectors of the country.\n\nAnti Corruption Commission is formed in 2004, but is considered to be largely ineffective in investigating and preventing corruption because of governmental control over it.\n\nAfter splitting from Pakistan in 1971, Bangladesh was ruled by a series of civilian and military governments. Riots surrounding the 2014 elections resulted in hundreds of deaths and Freedom House changed the country's \"political rights\" rating from 3 to 4 (with 1 being best, 7 worst). This was only one incident, however, in a modern history of highly fatal political violence.\n\nThe country's score for rule of law on the Worldwide Governance Indicators declined from 28.6 (on a scale of 0–100) in 2011 to 22.7 in 2013. Although Bangladesh has experienced notable social and economic progress since around the turn of the century, it remains one of the world's poorest nations, with 76.5% in 2010 living on less than US$2 a day.\n\nBribery, rent-seeking and inappropriate use of government funds, excessive lobbying, long time delays in service performance, pilferage, irresponsible conduct from the government officials, bureaucratic intemperance have made public sector departments the most corrupt sectors of Bangladesh. Public sectors in Bangladesh include police departments, fire departments, water supply, electricity, gas supply, education, waste disposal, health, transportation, administration etc.\n\nA 2012 study found that 97% of MPs were involved in illegal activities, with 77% abusing their positions on local election boards, 75% abusing development projects for their own benefit, including accepting commissions in exchange for approving projects or programs, 53% being involved in outright criminal acts, 69% influencing procurement decisions, and 62% influential local elections.\n\nFully 45% of Bangladeshis view political parties as corrupt, while 41% regard the parliament as corrupt. Only the police and the judiciary are viewed as more corrupt. Many politicians are regarded as out-and-out criminals, while the parties also \"are believed to harbour criminals and terrorists,\" according to \"TI Bangladesh\". The parties routinely exchange party funds for favours or pay them out because of extortion. They also improperly use state funds to buy jobs, licenses, and contracts for party members and other purposes. Party finances are largely non-transparent; despite regulations requiring reporting to the election commission, reports are scanty or absent and non-compliance is rarely punished. Also, both the parliament and the political parties are under the influence of business, with 56% of MPs now being business people.\n\nOn 9 April 2012 Railway Minister Suranjit Sengupta's assistant personal secretary, general manager of the eastern region, and commandant of security were driving to Suranjit's residence with 7.4 million Taka of bribe money, when the driver Azam Khan turned them in.\n\nIn 2012 World Bank alleged that Syed Abul Hossain was one of the corruption conspirator in the Padma Bridge Scandal. He resigned from his office on 23 July 2012. Former state minister for foreign affairs and MP of Awami League Abul Hasan Chowdhury was also involved in that corruption plot.\n\nOn 29 August 2012, Anti Corruption Commission of Bangladesh said that they have the information that Syed Modasser Ali, adviser to the prime minister Sheikh Hasina, allegedly influenced Sonali Bank authorities into granting scam loan to the controversial Hallmark Group.\n\nOn 24 April 2013, a commercial building named Rana Plaza in Savar, Dhaka, Bangladesh collapsed due to structural failure. That building was owned by Sohel Rana, a Jubo League (youth wing of Bangladesh Awami League) leader.\n\nOn 27 April 2014, the incident named Narayanganj Seven murder occurred. The main plotter of that incident Nur Hossain was the vice-president of Siddhirganj Awami League.\n\nOn 15 October 2015, Awami League MP Manjurul Islam Liton was arrested for shooting a 9-year-old boy named Shahadat Hossain Shoura.\n\nOn 7 April 2016, Bangladesh Supreme Court upheld the 3-years' prison sentence in the graft case of two sons (Jalal Alamgir, Joy Alamgir) of former minister of home affairs Dr Mohiuddin Khan Alamgir.\n\nOn 10 April 2016, Bangladesh Supreme Court Appellate Division upheld 13-year jail to former minister of Disaster Management and Relief Mofazzal Hossain Chowdhury Maya rejecting his review plea seeking acquittal in graft case.\n\nOn November 2016, Awami League MP Abdur Rahman Bodi was sentenced to three years of prison and fined US$1 million for illegally amassing and hiding wealth of US$100 million.\n\nOn 13 July 2017, Gazi Tarique Salman, a civil servant (UNO) was harassed by police, local administration, and local Awami League leader Obaidullah Saju.\n\nEven though Swiss National Bank (SNB)'s data published on 29 June 2017 shows that Bangladesh has BDT 4423,00,00,00,000 in Swiss banks which is an increase by 20% since 2013-14,\n\nBangladesh's minister of finance Abul Mal Abdul Muhit sid that \"Media exaggerated rise of Bangladeshi deposit in Swiss banks\"\n\nIn 2007, Military backed caretaker government charged Harris Chowdhury, former Political Secretary of Prime Minister Khaleda Zia, of acquiring his wealth through corruption. Chowdhury was charged with involvement in the Murder of former finance minister, Shah AMS Kibria, in 2005. He was also charged with involvement in 15 August 2004 Dhaka grenade attack and Zia Charitable Trust corruption case. On 21 December 2014, an arrest warrant was issued against him. His properties were confiscated by the directives of Bangladesh High Court. Harris Chowdhury is a fugitive from 2007.\n\nOn 22 July 2007, Wadud Bhuiyan received 20-years' of prison sentence for illegally amassing more than a million dollar of cash and property.\n\nOn 16 October 2008, it has been reported that the Interpol found the trace of a deposit of BD Taka 141.5 million with a bank in Hong Kong of former foreign minister M Morshed Khan. Both he and his son Faisal Morshed Khan have been convicted in several cases relating to corruption, hiding wealth information, land grabbing and criminal activities after the caretaker government came to power in January 2007. Both of them are fugitive from 2007. On 5 June 2016, High Court ordered freezing of Morshed Khan, his wife and son's Hong Kong bank accounts.\n\nOn 3 November 2008, a leaked US Embassy cable said that the Embassy in Dhaka believed Tarique Rahman was \"guilty of egregious political corruption that has had a serious adverse effect on US national interests\".\n\nIn 24 June 2011, Niko Resources, a Calgary-based oil and gas company, has pleaded guilty to bribing Bangladeshi minister AKM Mosharraf Hossain with a luxury SUV and a trip to New York and Calgary, and will pay a $9.5-million fine.\n\nThe Anti-Corruption Commission filed the case with Gulshan Police Station on 16 August 2011 against Hafiz and his wife for laundering US$1.75 million to Singapore. On 23 August 2015 Bangladesh Supreme Court scrapped his acquittal from High Court.\n\nOn 4 July 2014, Bangladesh Supreme Court sentenced former minister of civil aviation Mir Mohammad Nasiruddin and his son Mir Helal Uddin to thirteen years' of prison in two separate corruption cases.\n\nOn 15 November 2014, Prof AKM Shafiul Islam Lilon of Department of Social Science of Rajshahi University was hacked to death by Jubo Dal (youth wing of Bangladesh Nationalist Party) leader Anwar Hossain Ujjal.\n\nKnown in Bangladesh as \"Sugar Zafar\", Kazi Zafar Ahmed, because of his alleged role in the hijacking of a multimillion-dollar aid shipment of sugar, he was sentenced to 15 years' jail in absentia on corruption charges by a Dhaka court in November 1999.\n\nOn 20 November 2000, Hussain Muhammad Ershad was convicted and sentenced for Janata Tower Case. As a result, he was declared ineligible to contest the general election of 2001. Ershad is also the main accused of the murder case of Major General Muhammad Abul Manzoor.\n\nOn 10 November 2002, the deadbody of a prominent model named Syeda Tania Mahbub Tinni was found under the Buriganga Bridge which was later found to be perpetrated by former student cadre and MP of Jatiyo Party, Golam Faruk Ovi. Golam Faruk Ovi is a fugitive and believed to be hiding in Canada.\n\nIn public universities and colleges the student wings of ruling political parties dominate the campuses and residential halls through crime and violence to gain various unauthorised facilities. They control the residential halls to manage seats in favour of their party members and loyal pupils. They eat and buy for free from restaurants and shops inside their campus. They extort and grab tenders to earn illicit money. They take money from job seekers and put pressure on university administrations to appoint them. In government colleges they take money from freshmen candidates and put pressure on teachers and officials to get acceptance for them. Some of them often involves in robbery and rape.\n\nCorruption abounds in Bangladeshi government offices. Many officials receive salaries without having any actual assigned work. Officials are recruited and promoted for reasons that are not objectively clear. Solicitation of bribes is common. In a 2013 survey, 76% of respondents said corruption was a problem in the public sector, and 39% said they had paid a bribe during the previous 12 months. Bribes were especially common when dealing with the police (72%), the judiciary (63%), land services (44%), and registry and permit services (33%). Bribes were paid to obtain a service (58%), to speed up service (33%), to express thanks (7%), or to obtain cheaper services (3%). These numbers, though unimpressive, mark a significant improvement over 2010.\n\nIn 2010, then president Zillur Rahman pardoned twenty convicted murderers of Shabbir Ahmed Gamma. In July 2011, he again pardoned Awami League leader and convicted murderer Biplob.\n\nPrime examples of government corruption are 2011 Bangladesh share market scam.\n\nPadma Bridge Scandal, occurred in 2011, was the largest political scandal in Bangladesh that involved the ruling Bangladesh Awami League's government who allegedly sought a large amount money from the Canadian construction company SNC-Lavalin in exchange for awarding them the construction contract.\n\nOn 10 December 2012, some hackers hacked and posted the seventeen hours' of Skype call of chief justice Nizamul Huq on YouTube where he suggested that he was under pressure from the government to reach a quick verdict in the ongoing 1971 war crime cases against the country's senior opposition leaders.\n\nThe public sectors are among the country's most corrupt. In few countries is bribery more common in connection with public utilities. Nearly six out of ten firms report that they have to offer bribes, \"gifts,\" or facilitation payments in exchange for licenses or public utility concessions or to \"get things done.\" Unclear, contradictory regulations abound, and are often exploited by officials seeking informal payments.\n\nCorruption is widespread in the Bangladeshi land administration. Most companies expect to make informal payments in exchange for construction permits. In a country where land is scarce, title disputes are common, and title registration takes much longer than is the average in South Asia. The collapse of an eight-story factory in April 2013 was the result of substantial building code violations, and highlighted the role of corruption in the issuance of permits and licenses and in safety inspections.\n\nThe Bangladeshi tax system is highly corrupt. In no country is it more common to be charged irregular payments in connection with taxation. More than forty percent of firms surveyed expected to present tax officials with gifts. Because the National Board of Revenue is poorly administered, tax collectors are able to collude with taxpayers, accepting personal payments in exchange for lower tax rates.\n\nThe awarding of government contracts in Bangladesh very frequently involves nepotism, fraud, bribery, and favouritism. Nearly half of companies surveyed expect to make irregular payments to secure government contracts. The Public Procurement Act, Public Procurement Rules, and other legislation are intended to guarantee above-board conduct in this sector, but they are at best poorly enforced.\n\nThe Bangladeshi judicial system is inefficient and under the influence of the executive branch. Political appointments, promotions, and firings are routine, and it can be difficult to enforce contracts and resolve disputes. The payment of bribes in exchange for favourable verdicts is common. Prosecutors, who earn only $37.50 ??? a month, are especially susceptible to bribery.\n\nIn 2010, Judiciary of Bangladesh was ranked as the most corrupt institution of the country. The most prominent aspect of the judiciary of Bangladesh is, it is not an independent institution of the state in that both judiciary and the executive branch of the government are overlapped. Bangladesh's Judicial system is infested by partisanship, governmental or political influence, judicial corruption, delays in verdicts, and abuse of power.\n\nOn 3 March 2007, University of Chittagong revoked the LLB certificate of the judge Faisal Mahmud Faizee and seventy others for tempering with their mark-sheets, asking them to immediately return their certificates.\n\nOn 26 July 2014, it has been reported that three senior judges, AKM Ishtiaque Hussain, Md Mizanur Rahman, Salauddin Mohammad Akram, would lose their jobs because of various types of corruptions.\n\nOn 14 August 2016, Bangladesh Ministry of Law said that they have started the process of dismissing four judges, SM Aminul Islam, Ruhul Amin Khandaker, Sirajul Islam and Moinul Haque, for grave corruptions.\n\nBangladesh has a huge backlog of unresolved cases both civil and criminal. Political clout is believed to be the main factor behind most of the unsolved murder cases.\n\nAccording to Global Impunity Index of CJP published on 27 October 2016, Bangladesh occupies 11th position in the list where journalists are slain and killers go free.\n\nIn Bangladesh, generally government files politically motivated cases against oppositions, and these cases get withdrawn or quashed when they gets to the government again.\n\n\"See also\": Rapid Action Battalion\n\n\"See also\": Human rights in Bangladesh\n\nAlthough, Bangladesh Military is uniformed soldiers but Bangladesh military also involved large scale corruption in Bangladesh through Military's business empire. Bangladesh military officers are known to receiving illicit loans from the Trust Bank and VDP bank. The Bangladesh Rifles (BDR) mutiny was partly fueled by resentment among the BDR troops over the corruption of army officers who lead them for many years were personally profiting from consumer goods sold by the organisation.\n\nIn the year 2012, Deffence Adviser Maj Gen (Retd) Tarique Ahmed Siddique was involved in bribery of BDT 7 million carried by a government vehicle. The vehicle with the money was confiscated by the Border Guard Bangladesh. Maj Gen (Retd) Tarique Ahmed Siddique called the then chief of army staff, General Md Abdul Mubeen to released the vehicle and the money. Intelligence sources reported that the Army chief was paid a large some of the money to release the vehicle.\n\nLow salaries and poor training make the police susceptible to bribery as well. The force is characterised by political patronage and a culture of impunity. International businesses have said that the Bangladeshi police force is one of the world's least reliable.\n\nIn 2002, Transparency International Bangladesh revealed that Bangladesh Police is one of the most corrupt public institutions in Bangladesh. In 2013, they again published the same assessment. Asian Human Rights Commission revealed that people of Bangladesh pay more to police than to the government. Police force benefits from political patronage and culture of impunity. Police is involved in blackmailing, extortion, torture, rape, and killing.\n\nLaw enforcement agencies like Rapid Action Battalion are involved in extrajudicial killing, murder, abduction, and rampant human rights abuse.\n\nIn 2015, it was revealed that some Bangladeshi accounts of HSBC were involved in money laundering activities. HSBC was also involved in tax evasion activities.\n\nA 2012 Survey by Transparency International Bangladesh showed that 40.2% of the people fell victim to the irregularities and corruptions in public hospitals. Doctors, nurses and other professionals working in government-run public hospitals have long been accused of demanding bribes for services which are supposed to be provided free of cost. The survey also alleged that the recruitment, transfer and promotion process of personnel in this sector is also corrupted. Although the allegations were rejected by the Government Health Ministry.\nThe survey reported that there is lack of regulation from the government in the private health care sector. The medical practitioners in these sector earn money by driving up health care costs and commission agreements with diagnostic centres.\nAccording to patients, even in emergency needs, they were unable to access services unless a bribe is paid first.\n\nCompanies have been reported to be subjected to expensive and useless license and permit requirements. In 2014–2015, business executives said corruption was the second largest obstacle to doing business in Bangladesh. Business people are often expected to bribe public officials, often in connection with annual taxes. Fully 48% of companies have been asked to pay bribes, and most firms seeking licenses are asked for bribes, with 55% of construction permits, 77% of import licenses, 56% of water connection arrangements and 48% of electricity connection arrangements involving bribes.\n\nPoliticians are involved in giving contracts to foreign companies by taking bribes or kickbacks in closed-door negotiations. Major public contracts are often said to involve corruption. Fully 49% of companies said they had to present \"gifts\" to win state contracts, with those \"gifts\" averaging a value of 3% of the contract value.\n\nBusiness owners do not obey proper safety codes of the buildings and workplaces. As a result, several large accidents occurred and killed hundreds. The garment industry is also rife with corruption, with leaders in the industry obtaining tax concessions, gaining special access to infrastructure, and ignoring with impunity official safety and security regulations. Because of this brand of corruption, the Rana Plaza factory complex collapsed, killing over 1200. Owing to corruption, the builders had been able to ignore many construction regulations.\n\nVarious international sources provided $2.9 billion to build the Padma Multilateral Purpose Bridge near Dhaka in 2011. After the World Bank learned in 2012 of \"a high-level corruption conspiracy among politicians, businessmen, and private individuals\" in connection with the bridge, support for the project was withdrawn by several of the sources.\n\nTransparency International attributes the ubiquity and high level of corruption in Bangladesh to the power of business interests over the political parties and parliament.\n\nTraffic is heavy and chaotic in urban areas, specially in big cities. Streets are extremely congested and the usual traffic and safety rules are not applied or obeyed. Most drivers are untrained, unlicensed and uninsured. Over the years, road accidents have risen to a disastrous level. Bangladesh Jatri Kalyan Samity, assessed that 8,589 people had died in road accidents across the country in 2014. 5,000 people died in road accidents in 2015. According to World Bank statistics, annual fatality rate from road accidents is found to be 85.6 fatalities per 10,000 vehicles. Chaos in the street is usually caused by reckless driving and jaywalking which leads to fatal accidents. Police, Ministers, Lawmakers, VIPs have the tendency to break traffic laws by driving on the reverse sides of the roads.\n\nAccording to the data published by Swiss National Bank (SNB) on 29 June 2017, BDT 4423,00,00,00,000 in Swiss banks\nwhich has been increased by 20% since 2013-14\n\nAccording to the US report on the Bangladesh's investment climate, \"Corruption is common in public procurement, tax and customs collection, and regulatory authorities. Corruption, including bribery, raises the costs and risks of doing business.\"\n\nAnti Corruption Commission Bangladesh (ACC) was formed through an act promulgated on 23 February 2004 that came into force on 9 May 2004. The commission is often criticised for being ineffective and a wastage of resources due to the influence of the government over it. The Anti-Corruption Commission of Bangladesh is crippled by the 2013 amendment of the Anti Corruption Commission Act introduced by the ruling Awami League government, which makes it necessary for the commission to obtain permissions from the government to investigate or file any charge against government bureaucrats or politicians.\n\nIn 2015, the ACC investigated the case of Padma Bridge Scandal. Even though the World Bank continuously pressed the government to take actions against the perpetrators, after 53 days' of investigation, ACC found nobody to be guilty. On the basis of ACC's report, Dhaka district judge court acquitted all the seven government officials who were believed to be involved in the corruption plot. Before that, ACC even exonerated Syed Abul Hossain and ex-state minister for foreign affairs Abul Hasan Chowdhury from the allegation of involvement in the corruption conspiracy.\n\nTransparency International Bangladesh (TIB) is an independent, non-government, non-partisan and non-profit organisation which is a fully accredited national chapter of Berlin-based Transparency International in Bangladesh. TIB undertakes research and surveys to investigate the magnitude and impact of corruption and suggest necessary moves for establishing a transparent system of governance, politics and business. The reports and researches published by TIB regarding corruptions are routinely rejected and overlooked by the Government and other responsible wings.\n\nThe following table is depicting the comparison of Corruption Perceptions Index of various countries in South Asia as rated by Transparency International.\n\nThe Global Corruption Perception Index of 2016, published on 25 January 2017 indicates that, even though Bangladesh gained one point in the ranking, it slept 6 positions to 145 as more countries had been able to reduce their corruption levels than that of Bangladesh. According to the report, India and Sri Lanka both plunged in the ranking. The biggest improver was Pakistan as it gained two more points than that of 2015 and also progressed one step forward.\n\nAccording to the Arton Capital's Passport Index, Bangladeshi passport is ranked 6th worst in the world in terms of visa free travel. Bangladeshi passport's visa free travel score is 35 as compared to Afghanistan 23, Bhutan 48, India 45, Nepal 37, Pakistan 26, Sri Lanka 35.\n\nAccording to Henley & Partner's Visa Restriction Index, Bangladeshi passport is ranked 163rd of 176 countries in the world.\n"}
{"id": "46586365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46586365", "title": "Dachau trials (Slovenia)", "text": "Dachau trials (Slovenia)\n\nThe Dachau trials () in Slovenia were a group of show trials held between 1947/48 and 1949. The name refers to the fact that 31 of the defendants had been prisoners at the Dachau concentration camp.\n\nThe trials marked a departure from previous communist show trials in Slovenia such as the Nagode Trial because until this point the authorities had sought enemies outside the Communist Party, among the non-proletariat and the non-communist intelligentsia. By selecting enemies from the ranks of the Communist Party, a Yugoslav version of the Stalinist show trials was launched.\n\nIn the preparations for the trials, a large number of writers, physicians, politicians, and engineers were arrested without knowing whether they would be accused or merely used as witnesses. Those arrested were tortured and deprived of their legal rights. Forged documents were prepared as evidence against them and false testimony was prepared.\n\nThe defendants in the trials were forced to confess to being Nazi spies while imprisoned at the Dachau concentration camp, collaborating with the Gestapo, and working for Western powers after the Second World War in order to undermine socialism. The proceedings were broadcast to the public via special loudspeakers on the streets. Most of the defendants were shot immediately after being condemned to death, and others were sent to the Goli Otok prison camp. The total number of people executed, the specific dates when they were killed, and where their bodies were disposed of remains unknown. Some are believed to lie in the forest near Kočevje, and others in Ljubljana's Žale cemetery. \n\nThe sentences handed down in the trials were reversed in April 1986 at the Tenth Congress of the League of Communists of Slovenia.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48571455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48571455", "title": "Data-centric security", "text": "Data-centric security\n\nData-centric security is an approach to security that emphasizes the security of the data itself rather than the security of networks, servers, or applications. Data-centric security is evolving rapidly as enterprises increasingly rely on digital information to run their business and big data projects become mainstream.\nData-centric security also allows organizations to overcome the disconnect between IT security technology and the objectives of business strategy by relating security services directly to the data they implicitly protect; a relationship that is often obscured by the presentation of security as an end in itself.\n\nCommon processes in a data-centric security model include:\n\nFrom a technical point of view, information(data)-centric security relies on the implementation of the following:\n\nData access control is the selective restriction of access to data. Accessing may mean viewing, editing, or using. Defining proper access controls requires to map out the information, where it resides, how important it is, who it is important to, how sensitive the data is and then designing appropriate controls.\n\nEncryption is a proven data-centric technique to address the risk of data theft in smartphones, laptops, desktops and even servers, including the cloud. One limitation is that encryption is not always effective once a network intrusion has occurred and cybercriminals operate with stolen valid user credentials.\n\nData Masking is the process of hiding specific data within a database table or cell to ensure that data security is maintained and that sensitive information is not exposed to unauthorized personnel. This may include masking the data from users, developers, third-party and outsourcing vendors, etc.\nData masking can be achieved multiple ways: by duplicating data to eliminate the subset of the data that needs to be hidden, or by obscuring the data dynamically as users perform requests.\n\nMonitoring all activity at the data layer is a key component of a data-centric security strategy. It provides visibility into the types of actions that users and tools have requested and been authorized to on specific data elements. Continuous monitoring at the data layer combined with precise access control can contribute significantly to the real-time detection of data breaches, limits the damages inflicted by a breach and can even stop the intrusion if proper controls are in place. A 2016 survey\nshows that most organizations still don't assess database activity continuously and lack the capability to identify database breaches in a timely fashion.\n\nCloud computing is an evolving paradigm with tremendous momentum, but its unique aspects exacerbate security and privacy challenges. Heterogeneity and diversity of cloud services and environments demand fine-grained access control policies and services that should be flexible enough to capture dynamic, context, or attribute-based access requirements and data protection.\n\nIn recent decades many organizations rely on managing database services in public clouds such Amazon Web Services, Oracle Cloud, Google Cloud Platform or Microsoft Azure to organize their data.\nSuch approach has its own limitations on what users can do with managing security of their sensitive data. For instance, hardware security appliances or agents running on the database servers are no longer an option. This requires innovative ways to secure data and databases such as using reverse proxy sitting between clients / applications and database servers. The requirements such supporting a load balancing, high availability and fail-over in data-centric security brings additional challenges that database security vendors must meet. \n\n"}
{"id": "43356476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43356476", "title": "De-Stalinization", "text": "De-Stalinization\n\nDe-Stalinization (Russian: десталинизация, \"destalinizatsiya\") consisted of a series of political reforms in the Soviet Union after the death of long-time leader Joseph Stalin in 1953, and the ascension of Nikita Khrushchev to power.\n\nThe reforms consisted of changing or removing key institutions that helped Stalin hold power: the cult of personality that surrounded him, the Stalinist political system, and the Gulag labour-camp system, all of which had been created and dominated by him. Stalin was succeeded by a collective leadership after his death in March 1953, consisting of Georgi Malenkov, Premier of the Soviet Union; Lavrentiy Beria, head of the Ministry of the Interior; and Nikita Khrushchev, First Secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU).\n\nThe term \"de-Stalinization\" is one which gained currency in both Russia and the Western world following the collapse of the Soviet Union, and was never used during the Khrushchev era. However, de-Stalinization efforts were set forth at this time by Nikita Khrushchev and the Government of the Soviet Union under the guise of the \"overcoming/exposure of the cult of personality\", with a heavy criticism of Joseph Stalin's \"era of the cult of personality\". However, prior to Khrushchev's \"Secret Speech\" to the 20th Party Congress, no direct association between Stalin as a person and \"the cult of personality\" was openly made by Khrushchev or others within the party, although archival documents show that strong criticism of Stalin and his ideology featured in private discussions by Khruschchev at the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet.\n\nThere were dangers in denouncing Stalin as he was placed on a pedestal both at home and among communists abroad. In the years 1953–1955, a period of \"silent de-Stalinization\" took place, as the revision of Stalin's policies was done in secret, and often with no explanation. This period saw a number of non-publicised political rehabilitations, (such as Marshal Mikhail Tukhachevsky, Politburo members Robert Eikhe and Jānis Rudzutaks, and those executed in the Leningrad Affair) and the release of \"Article 58ers\". However, due to the huge influx of prisoners returning from the camps (90,000 prisoners in 1954–55 alone), this could not continue.\n\nIn December 1955 Khrushchev proposed a commission to be set up in order to investigate Stalin's activities on behalf of the Presidium; this investigation found out that out of the 1,920,635 arrested for anti-Soviet activities – who were arrested on fabricated evidence in the first place and confessed under torture authorized by Stalin – 688,503 were executed.\n\nDe-Stalinization meant an end to the role of large-scale forced labour in the economy. The process of freeing Gulag prisoners was started by Lavrentiy Beria. He was soon removed from power, arrested on 26 June 1953, and executed on 24 December 1953. Nikita Khrushchev emerged as the most powerful Soviet politician.\n\nWhile de-Stalinization was quietly underway ever since Stalin's death, the watershed event was Khrushchev's speech entitled \"On the Cult of Personality and Its Consequences\", concerning Stalin. On 25 February 1956, he spoke to a closed session of the 20th Party Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, delivering an address laying out some of Stalin's crimes and the \"conditions of insecurity, fear, and even desperation\" created by Stalin. Khrushchev shocked his listeners by denouncing Stalin's dictatorial rule and his cult of personality as inconsistent with communist and Party ideology. Among other points, he condemned the treatment of the Old Bolsheviks, people who had supported communism before the revolution, many of whom Stalin had executed as traitors. Khrushchev also attacked the crimes committed by associates of Beria.\n\nOne reason given for Khrushchev's speech was his moral conscience; Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn said that Khrushchev spoke out of a \"movement of the heart\". This, the Communists believed, would prevent a fatal loss of self-belief and restore unity within the Party.\n\nMartin McCauley argues that Khrushchev's purpose was to \"liberate Party officials from the fear of repression\". Khrushchev argued that if the Party were to be an efficient mechanism, stripped from the brutal abuse of power by any individual, it could transform the Soviet Union as well as the entire world.\n\nHowever, others have suggested that the speech was made in order to deflect blame from the Communist Party or the principles of Marxism–Leninism and place the blame squarely on Stalin's shoulders, thus preventing a more radical debate. However, the publication of this speech caused many party members to resign in protest, both abroad and within the Soviet Union.\n\nBy attacking Stalin, McCauley argues, he was undermining the credibility of Molotov, Malenkov, Kaganovich and other political opponents who had been within \"Stalin's inner circle\" during the 1930s more than he had been. If they did not \"come over to Khrushchev\", they \"risk[ed] being banished with Stalin\" and associated with his dictatorial control.\n\nKhrushchev attempted to make the Gulag labour system less harsh, by allowing prisoners to post letters home to their families, and by allowing family members to mail clothes to prisoners, which was not allowed under Stalin. When Stalin died, the Gulag was \"radically reduced in size\". On 25 October 1956, a resolution of the CPSU declared that the existence of the Gulag labour system was \"inexpedient\". The Gulag institution was closed by the MVD order No 020 of 25 January 1960.\n\nKhrushchev renamed or reverted the names of many places bearing Stalin's name, including cities, territories, landmarks, and other facilities. The State Anthem of the Soviet Union was purged of references to Stalin. The Stalin-centric and World War II-era lines in the lyrics were effectively excised when an instrumental version replaced it. The Joseph Stalin Palace of Culture and Science in Warsaw, Poland was renamed in 1956.\n\nThe Yerevan monument was removed in spring 1962 and replaced by Mother Armenia in 1967. Thousands of Stalin monuments have been destroyed not only in the Soviet Union, but in other former Communist countries. In November 1961, the large Stalin Statue on Berlin's monumental Stalinallee (promptly renamed Karl-Marx-Allee) was removed in a clandestine operation. The Monument in Budapest was destroyed in October 1956. The biggest one, the Prague monument, was taken down in November 1962.\n\nGiven momentum by these public renamings, the process of de-Stalinization peaked in 1961 during the 22nd Congress of the CPSU. Two climactic acts of de-Stalinization marked the meetings: first, on 31 October 1961, Stalin's body was moved from Lenin's Mausoleum in Red Square to a location near the Kremlin wall; second, on 11 November 1961, the \"hero city\" Stalingrad was renamed Volgograd.\n\nContemporary historians regard the beginning of de-Stalinization as a turning point in the history of the Soviet Union that began during the Khrushchev Thaw. It subsided during the Brezhnev period until the mid-1980s, and accelerated again with the policies of \"perestroika\" and \"glasnost\" under Mikhail Gorbachev.\n\nDe-Stalinization has been considered a fragile process. Historian Polly Jones said that \"re-Stalinization\" was highly likely after a brief period of \"thaw\". Anne Applebaum agrees: \"The era which came to be called the 'Thaw' was indeed an era of change, but change of a particular kind: reforms took two steps forward, and then one step—or sometimes three steps—back.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3070577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3070577", "title": "Dettmer v. Landon", "text": "Dettmer v. Landon\n\nDettmer v. Landon, 799 F.2d 929 (4th Cir. 1986), is a court case in which the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit held that although Wicca was a religion, it was not a violation of the First Amendment to deny a prisoner access to ritual objects.\n\nThe plaintiff, Herbert Daniel Dettmer, was a Virginia prisoner, and a member of the School of Wicca. Dettmer desired access to ritual objects, including several varieties of knife, with which to practice Wiccan rituals. Knives, of course, are not available to prisoners. When the state would not provide him these ritual objects, he sued Robert Landon, the Director of the Virginia Department of Corrections in federal court to get access to objects he claimed were necessary for his religious practice. The United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia decided in Dettmer's favor, finding that Wicca was a religion, rejecting the argument put forward by the Department of Correction that it was merely a \"conglomeration\" of occult practices. This decision was appealed to the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals, and was argued before the appellate court in April 1986.\n\nThe Fourth Circuit, in a decision by Senior Circuit Judge John D. Butzner, Jr., affirmed the district court's ruling that Wicca was a religion, but vacated the injunction.\n\nThe appellate court considered but rejected the claims of the government about Wicca itself, which included that Wicca was a mere \"conglomeration\" of \"various aspects of the occult, such as faith healing, self-hypnosis, tarot card reading, and spell casting, none of which would be considered religious practices standing alone,\" and that even if Dettmer's beliefs were religious, the rituals were not.\n\nThe conclusion of the Fourth Circuit was that the District court had found that Dettmer had a religious belief entitled to full First Amendment protections, but that he was not entitled to an injunction, since \"[t]he decision to prohibit Dettmer from possessing the items that he sought did not discriminate against him because of his unconventional beliefs.\"\n\nWhile not entirely a victory for Dettmer, this was the first time Wicca was recognized by a court of law as a legitimate religion.\n\n"}
{"id": "177869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=177869", "title": "Diplomatic history", "text": "Diplomatic history\n\nDiplomatic history deals with the history of international relations between states. Diplomatic history can be different from international relations in that the former can concern itself with the foreign policy of one state while the latter deals with relations between two or more states. Diplomatic history tends to be more concerned with the history of diplomacy, but international relations concern more with current events and creating a model intended to shed explanatory light on international politics.\n\nThucydides was highly concerned with the relations among states. However the modern form of diplomatic history was codified in the 19th century by Leopold von Ranke, as the leading German historian of the 19th century. Ranke wrote largely on the history of Early Modern Europe, using the diplomatic archives of the European powers (particularly the Venetians) to construct a detailed understanding of the history of Europe \"wie es eigentlich gewesen\" (\"as it actually happened.\"). Ranke saw diplomatic history as the most important kind of history to write because of his idea of the \"Primacy of Foreign Affairs\" (\"Primat der Aussenpolitik\"), arguing that the concerns of international relations drive the internal development of the state. Ranke's understanding of diplomatic history relied on the large number of official documents produced by modern western governments as sources, which he argued should be examined in an objective and neutral spirit.\n\nIn the early 20th centuries, work by prominent diplomatic historians such as Charles Webster, Harold Temperley, Alfred Pribram, R.H. Lord and B.E. Schmitt were mostly concerned with the events such as the Napoleonic Wars, the Congress of Vienna and the origins of the Franco-German War. A notable event in diplomatic history occurred in 1910 when the French government start to publish all of the archives relating to the war of 1870. The Bolsheviks in Russia published key secret papers from the Allies in 1918.\n\nRanke's understanding of the dominance of foreign policy, and hence an emphasis on diplomatic history, remained the dominant paradigm in historical writing through the first half of the twentieth century. This emphasis, combined with the effects of the War Guilt Clause in the Treaty of Versailles (1919) which ended the First World War, led to a huge amount of historical writing on the subject of the origins of the war of 1914, with the involved governments printing huge, carefully edited, collections of documents and numerous historians writing multi-volume histories of the origins of the war. In the interwar period, most diplomatic historians tended to blame all of the Great Powers of 1914 for the First World War, arguing that the war was in effect everybody's responsibility. In general, the early works in this vein fit fairly comfortably into Ranke's emphasis on \"Aussenpolitik\".\n\nHistorian Muriel Chamberlain notes that after the First World War:\nShe adds that after 1945, the trend reversed, allowing political, intellectual and social history to displace diplomatic history.\n\nFor the first half of the 20th century, most diplomatic history working within the narrow confines of the \"Primat der Aussenpolitik\" approach was very narrowly concerned with foreign-policy making elites with little reference to broader historical forces. The most notable exceptions to this tendency were A. J. P. Taylor and William Medlicott in Britain, Pierre Renouvin in France, and William L. Langer in the United States, who examined economic and domestic political forces.\n\nSir Winston Churchill's multi-volume \"The Second World War\", especially the first volume \"The Gathering Storm\" (1948) set the framework and the interpretation for much later historiography. His interpretation, echoing his own position before the war, that World War II was caused by the mad ambitions of Adolf Hitler; Churchill damned the cowardly and weak-willed British and French leaders who used appeasement in a futile effort to avoid the war. Churchill did not consider the argument that the alternative to appeasement was a premature war that Germany would win in 1938. The British historian A. J. P. Taylor's 1961 book \"The Origins of the Second World War\" challenged Churchill's viewpoint and argued that Hitler had no master-plan for conquering the world. Instead he was an ordinary statesman –-an opportunistic leader seizing whatever chances he had for expansionism. The fact that a world war started over Poland in 1939 was due to diplomatic miscalculation by all the countries concerned, instead of being a case of German aggression. British historians such as D.C. Watt, Paul Kennedy, George Peden and David Dilks argued that appeasement was not an aberration, and that it was an old British tradition which in this case flowed from numerous structural, economic and military factors. Historians such as Christopher Thorne and Harry Hinsley abandoned the previous focus on individual leaders to discuss the broader societal influences such as public opinion and narrower ones like intelligence on diplomatic relations. In recent years the debates regarding the 1930s have continued, but new approaches are in use, such as an analysis in terms of Britain's national identity.\n\nA group of French historians centered around Pierre Renouvin (1893-1974) and his \"protégés\" Jean-Baptiste Duroselle and Maurice Baumont started a new type of international history in the 1950s that included taking into account what Renouvin called ' (profound forces) such as the influence of domestic politics on French foreign policy. However, Renouvin and his followers still followed the concept of ' with Renouvin arguing that French society under the Third Republic was “sorely lacking in initiative and dynamism” and Baumont arguing that French politicians had allowed \"personal interests\" to override \"any sense of the general interest\". In 1979, Duroselle's book \"La Décadence\" offered a total condemnation of the entire Third Republic as weak, cowardly and degenerate.\n\nAt the same time, in 1961 when the German historian Fritz Fischer published \"Griff nach der Weltmacht\", which established that Germany had caused the First World War led to the fierce \"Fischer Controversy\" that tore apart the West German historical profession. One result of Fischer's book was the rise in the \"Primat der Innenpolitik\" (Primacy of Domestic Politics) approach. As a result of the rise of the \"Primat der Innenpolitik\" school, diplomatic historians increasing started to pay attention to domestic politics. In the 1970s, the conservative German historian Andreas Hillgruber, together with his close associate Klaus Hildebrand, was involved in a very acrimonious debate with the leftish German historian Hans-Ulrich Wehler over the merits of the \"Primat der Aussenpolitik\" (\"primacy of foreign politics\") and \"Primat der Innenpolitik\" (\"primacy of domestic politics\") schools. Hillgruber and Hildebrand made a case for the traditional \"Primat der Aussenpolitik\" approach to diplomatic history with the stress on examining the records of the relevant foreign ministry and studies of the foreign policy decision-making elite. Wehler, who favored the \"Primat der Innenpolitik\" approach, for his part contended that diplomatic history should be treated as a sub-branch of social history, calling for theoretically-based research, and argued that the real focus should be on the study of the society in question. Moreover, under the influence of the \"Primat der Innenpolitik\" approach, diplomatic historians in the 1960s, 70s and 80s start to borrow models from the social sciences.\n\nA notable example of the \"Primat der Innenpolitik\" approach was the claim by the British Marxist historian Timothy Mason who claimed that the launch of World War II in 1939 was best understood as a “barbaric variant of social imperialism”. Mason argued that “Nazi Germany was always bent \"at some time\" upon a major war of expansion”. However, Mason argued that the timing of such a war was determined by domestic political pressures, especially as relating to a failing economy, and had nothing to do with what Hitler wanted. In Mason's view in the period between 1936–41, it was the state of the German economy, and not Hitler's \"will\" or \"intentions\" that was the most important determinate on German decision-making on foreign policy. Mason argued that the Nazi leaders were deeply haunted by the November Revolution of 1918, and was most unwilling to see any fall in working class living standards out of the fear that it might provoke another November Revolution. According to Mason, by 1939, the “overheating” of the German economy caused by rearmament, the failure of various rearmament plans produced by the shortages of skilled workers, industrial unrest caused by the breakdown of German social policies, and the sharp drop in living standards for the German working class forced Hitler into going to war at a time and place not of his choosing. Mason contended that when faced with the deep socio-economic crisis the Nazi leadership had decided to embark upon a ruthless “smash and grab” foreign policy of seizing territory in Eastern Europe which could be pitilessly plundered to support living standards in Germany. Mason's theory of a \"Flight into war\" being imposed on Hitler generated much controversy, and in the 1980s he conducted a series of debates with economic historian Richard Overy over this matter. Overy maintained the decision to attack Poland was not caused by structural economic problems, but rather was the result of Hitler wanting a localized war at that particular time in history. For Overy, a major problem with the Mason thesis was that it rested on the assumption that in a way unrecorded by the records, that information was passed on to Hitler about the \"Reich\"'s economic problems. Overy argued that there was a major difference between economic pressures inducted by the problems of the Four Year Plan, and economic motives to seize raw materials, industry and foreign reserve of neighboring states as a way of accelerating the Four Year Plan. Moreover, Overy asserted that the repressive capacity of the German state as a way of dealing with domestic unhappiness was somewhat downplayed by Mason.\n\nIn addition, because World War II was a global war, diplomatic historians start to focus on Japanese-American relations to understand why Japan had attacked the United States in 1941. This in turn led diplomatic historians to start to abandon the previous Euro-centric approach in favor of a more global approach. A sign of the changing times was the rise to prominence of such diplomatic historians such as the Japanese historian Chihiro Hosoya, the British historian Ian Nish, and the American historian Akira Iriye, which was the first time that Asian specialists became noted diplomatic historians.\n\nThe Cold War and decolonization greatly added the tendency to a more global diplomatic history. The Vietnam War led to the rise of a revisionist school in the United States, which led many American historians such as Gabriel Kolko and William Appleman Williams to reject traditional diplomatic history in favor of a \"Primat der Innenpolitik\" approach that saw a widespread examination of the influence of American domestic politics together with various social, economic and cultural forces on foreign-policy making. In general, the American Cold War revisionists tended to focus on American foreign policy decision-making with respect to the genesis of the Cold War in the 1940s and on how the United States became involved in Vietnam in the 1960s. Starting in the 1960s, a ferocious debate has taken place within Cold War histriography between the advocates of the “orthodox” school which saw the Cold War as a case of Soviet aggression such as Vojtech Mastny against the proponents of the “revisionist” school which saw the Cold War as a case of American aggression. Latterly, a third school known as \"neo-orthodox\" whose most prominent member is the American historian John Lewis Gaddis has emerged, which holds through the United States borne some responsibility for the Cold War, the lion's share of the responsibility goes to the Soviet Union.\n\nIn Europe diplomatic history fell out of favor in the late Cold War era. Since the collapse of communism in 1989-91, however, there has been a renaissance, led especially by historians of the early modern era, in the history of diplomacy. The new approach differs from previous perspectives by the wholesale incorporation of perspectives from political science, sociology, the history of mentalities, and cultural history.\n\nIn the U.S. since the 1980s, the discipline of diplomatic history has become more relevant to and better integrated with the mainstream of the academic history profession. It has taken the lead in internationalization of American historical studies. Since it explores the interaction of domestic and international forces, the field has become increasingly important for its study of culture and identity and the exploration of political ideologies as applied to foreign affairs. There have been major influences from other new approaches such as Orientalism and globalism, as well as gender and racial history. The history of human rights has become important as well. Despite all these innovations, however, the core endeavor of diplomatic history remains the study of the state interacting with other states, which is also a key to its broadening appeal, since considerations of America's superpower status is essential to understanding the world internationally.\n\nIn the early 1980s, historian Jeffrey Kimball surveyed the ideological preferences of 109 active diplomatic historians in the United States as well as 54 active military historians. He reports that:\n\nIn Europe, diplomatic history fell out of favor in the late Cold War era. Since the collapse of communism, there has been a renaissance, led especially by historians of the early modern era, in the history of diplomacy. The new approach differs from previous perspectives by the wholesale incorporation of perspectives from political science, sociology, the history of mentalities, and cultural history.\n\nIn the U.S. since 1980, the discipline of diplomatic history has become more relevant to and integrated with the mainstream of the historiographic profession, having been in the forefront of the internationalization of American historical studies. As a field that explores the meeting of domestic and international forces, the study of US foreign relations has become increasingly important for its examination of both the study of culture and identity and the exploration of political ideologies. Particularly shaped by the influence of studies of Orientalism and globalism, gender studies, race, and considerations of national identity, diplomatic history was often at the cutting edge of historical research. Despite such innovations, however, the core endeavor of diplomatic history remains the study of the state, which is also a key to its broadening appeal, since considerations of US state power are essential to understanding the world internationally.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7293292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7293292", "title": "Extrusion detection", "text": "Extrusion detection\n\nExtrusion detection or outbound intrusion detection is a branch of intrusion detection aimed at developing mechanisms to identify successful and unsuccessful attempts to use the resources of a computer system to compromise other systems. Extrusion detection techniques focus primarily on the analysis of system activity and outbound traffic in order to detect malicious users, malware or network traffic that may pose a threat to the security of neighboring systems.\n\nWhile intrusion detection is mostly concerned about the identification of incoming attacks (intrusion attempts), extrusion detection systems try to prevent attacks from being launched in the first place. They implement monitoring controls at leaf nodes of the network—rather than concentrating them at choke points, e.g., routers—in order to distribute the inspection workload and to take advantage of the visibility a system has of its own state. The ultimate goal of extrusion detection is to identify attack attempts launched from an already compromised system in order to prevent them from reaching their target, hereby containing the impact of the threat.\n\n"}
{"id": "7559526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7559526", "title": "FamilyVoice Australia", "text": "FamilyVoice Australia\n\nFamilyVoice Australia is an Australian conservative Christian organisation. It was known as Festival of Light Australia from 1973 to 2008. Its stated mission was to be \"a Christian ministry to the nation, promoting true family values in the light of the wisdom of God\". The name was changed to FamilyVoice Australia on 1 July 2008 in order to eliminate confusion with the many other festivals or groups around the world called \"Festival of Light\" or \"Festival of Lights\". Key activities of FamilyVoice Australia are providing information to supporters, churches and community leaders and lobbying on issues of concern.\n\nIt was founded in Adelaide in 1972 as the \"Australian Festival of Light and Community Standards Organisation\", with the name and inspiration from United Kingdom's Nationwide Festival of Light founded in 1971.\n\nIt came out of work by the Australian Community Standards Organisation (CSO), which had recently merged with the South Australian Moral Action Committee. Moral Action Committee members included Reverend Lance Shilton, Rector of Holy Trinity Anglican Church in Adelaide and later Anglican Dean of Sydney; Dr John H. Court, then senior lecturer in psychology at Flinders University, and Peter Daniels. South Australian delegates at a CSO meeting in Melbourne in 1972 led the move to hold \"a nationwide act of Christian witness, similar to that conducted in Britain last year (Festival of Light)\".\n\nRev. Lance Shilton then initiated an interdenominational steering committee to establish the Australian Festival of Light at a meeting in Toorak Gardens, Adelaide, in November 1972. The committee appointed Dr Court as chairman; Rev Shilton and Mrs Roslyn Phillips as deputy chairmen, and Peter Daniels as publicity officer.\n\nThe Festival of Light was formally launched in Adelaide in June 1973 with a media conference and the release of a new book by Dr Court and SA journalist Helen Caterer, \"Stand Up and Be Counted\", which aimed to motivate readers to defend publicly their Christian faith and values.\n\nLance Shilton’s network of contacts through the Australian Evangelical Alliance and the Community Standards Organisation led to the formation of independent branches of Festival of Light (which later included the Community Standards Organisation) in all Australian states. Reverend Fred Nile accepted leadership of the NSW branch in July 1973, becoming the full-time director in January 1974. Mr Nile greatly increased the organisation’s activity and public profile.\n\nIt was less active after the mid 1980s, but has undergone reconstitution since 2003.\n\nIn 2004 the national body of the former Festival of Light Australia was formed under a new constitution, with a national office in Adelaide and branches in South Australia and Queensland. Western Australia, Victoria and New South Wales branches followed in 2005-2007. In 2004 Dr. David Phillips, formerly chairman of the South Australian branch of Festival of Light, became national president of Festival of Light Australia.\n\nOn 1 July 2008 its name was changed to FamilyVoice Australia in order to avoid ambiguity, especially on the internet. Dr David Phillips remains the national president and is supported by five state officers, a national research officer and a national administrator.\n\nFamilyVoice Australia has opposed same-sex marriage and sex toys being sold in Australian supermarkets. They also oppose same-sex couples being able to adopt children in Australian states, saying that children \"do best when raised by a mother and a father\" and have argued against altruistic surrogacy. FamilyVoice has stated \"a child is at significantly greater risk of abuse in any family type other than an intact two-parent family\". FamilyVoice is opposed to the decriminalisation of sex work and the introduction of an R18+ classification for computer games. FamilyVoice has lobbied for mandatory internet filtering following successful campaigns for Internet censorship in the United Kingdom\n\nFamilyVoice Australia has organised a lecture tour for the Christian philosopher Vishal Mangalwadi, who believes that without Christian belief, Western society will experience social collapse. FamilyVoice has criticised philosopher Peter Singer, considering his views \"highly offensive\"\n\nFamilyVoice joined with other Christian advocacy groups in opposing the listing of Mifepristone on the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme. At one rally against abortion Geoffrey Bullock stated that 96 per cent of abortions performed in South Australia were for \"social convenience reasons\". FamilyVoice has made submissions on the partial defence of provocation in New South Wales after Tasmania, Victoria, Western Australia, the Northern Territory and Queensland have changed their laws.\n\nFamilyVoice is opposed to the decriminalisation of cannabis, claiming the drug has \"no medical use\". FamilyVoice have made submissions to inquiries on drug and alcohol treatment, the provision of alcohol to minors and the prevention of drug and alcohol abuse.\n\nFamilyVoice has made submissions on referendum machinery, bicameral parliaments and electoral funding, opposing caps on political donations\n\nFamilyVoice Australia submissions have included other issues such as human rights, euthanasia, childcare funding, paid parental leave, the commercial television industry code of practice, suicide, men’s health, religious freedom, \"adult\" stores, alcohol-related violence, child sex abuse, equal opportunity laws, reproductive technology and gambling.\n\nFamilyVoice Australia partnered with the Coalition for Marriage and other groups opposed to same-sex marriage, in campaigning for a 'No' vote in the 2017 Australian Marriage Law Postal Survey.\n\nThe 1973 Proclamation of Australian Festival of Light reached out to \"all people of good will\", but most of those who responded had a Christian background. In 1974 Flinders University historians Hilliard and Warhurst noted that supporters of Festival of Light were mainly Protestants of the Evangelical tradition and conservative Catholics and that some other Christians tended to be critical of the organisation's \"overconfident presentation of complex moral issues in simple black and white terms\". Hilliard and Warhurst said that despite Festival of Light's promotion among churches around South Australia, some clergy were unresponsive and many congregations did not get involved.\n\nSometimes there was open controversy. A week before the 1973 visit of Mary Whitehouse, students at the University of Adelaide, Flinders University and the South Australian Institute of Technology (now the University of South Australia) began a \"Festival of Fright\" campaign against the Australian Festival of Light events, saying, \"These latter-day Calvins should be met by as much opposition as freedom-loving people can muster...\"\n\nIn 1978, South Australian Attorney-General Peter Duncan criticised the Festival of Light, saying: \"I believe there is a desperate need to develop a tolerant society… I don't think this sort of hysteria and prejudging that is generated by the Festival of Light does anything to further this move.\" Duncan also spoke out against the 1978 Festival of Light-sponsored visit to Australia by Whitehouse, calling her \"an agent of darkness\" and an \"opponent of freedom.\"\n\nThe September 1978 Mary Whitehouse visit was influential in the Festival of Light campaign against X-rated pornography. On 12 September, following national media coverage of the pornography problem in relation to the Whitehouse tour, Victorian Liberal Premier Rupert Hamer announced that his government would move to tighten pornography laws, particularly in relation to children.\n\nOn 10 September 1978 at the Whitehouse rally in Adelaide's Rymill Park, Festival of Light circulated a petition calling for tighter control of pornography, later signed by over 14,000 South Australians. On 20 September, Labor Premier Don Dunstan delivered a blistering attack on the Festival of Light in the South Australian House of Assembly, calling the petition pamphlet \"disgraceful\". He said a graph accompanying the petition was \"one of the most untruthful pieces of work that I have ever come across\" because it showed a rise in South Australian rates of reported rape following a 1974 law allowing the sale of hardcore pornography, compared with Queensland where hardcore pornography was banned and rape reports remained steady. Dunstan said rape convictions should have been used instead of reports, and the graph should have extended beyond 1975.\n\nHowever, on 27 September, Liberal MP Bruce Eastick defended the Festival of Light petition and graph, and said part of the Premier’s speech the week before had been a \"blatant untruth\". Dr Eastick said rape report statistics from South Australia and Queensland after 1975 showed that \"it is quite clear that the problem in South Australia is almost four times as serious as that which exists in Queensland\". Liberal MP Mrs Jennifer Adamson later fully documented the statistics in the Festival of Light petition pamphlet, and listed the academic credentials of the founding chairman Dr John Court.\n\nDr Eastick also pointed out that a child pornography magazine \"Just Boys\" had been banned in New South Wales but had been classified for unrestricted sale in South Australia \"alongside the \"Women's Weekly\"\".\n\nOn 28 September, the Dunstan government introduced the Criminal Law (Prohibition of Child Pornography) Bill, which passed both houses of parliament without dissent on 21 November 1978 after opposition amendments tightened its provisions. The passage of the bill in an amended form was widely seen as a response to the Festival of Light campaign. Liberal MP Keith Russack noted, \"The many signatures on petitions presented to this Parliament is a significant indication of the South Australian public’s concern.\"\n\nFestival of Light hosted many events including visits by overseas speakers such as:\nThe first major event of the Australian Festival of Light was the visit by \"Clean-up TV\" campaigner Mary Whitehouse to Sydney and Adelaide in October 1973. It was Shilton, while on a trip to Britain in May 1973, who invited Whitehouse to Australia. Whitehouse spoke to overflow crowds in the Sydney Town Hall and the Adelaide Festival Theatre, and led a march of 10,000 people to Light’s Vision in Adelaide on 14 October 1973, where the Festival of Light Proclamation setting out the breadth of its concerns was read out and endorsed by a total crowd of over 12,000.\n\nMary Whitehouse later recalled her first visit to Australia as one of the big events of her life. She told her biographer Max Caulfield that because of the intense media interest, \"I became better known in Australia in three and a half weeks than I did in Britain in ten years.\"\nMalcolm Muggeridge’s Australian Festival of Light speaking tour was equally successful in October 1976. An estimated 35,000 people heard his keynote address to the Family Celebration in Sydney’s Hyde Park on 10 October; he spoke to a capacity audience in Adelaide’s Festival Theatre on 14 October and significant crowds in other cities throughout Australia and New Zealand.\nMary Whitehouse successfully toured Australia for a second time in September 1978, amid controversy over UK court action she had initiated against an offensive poem about Jesus published in a homosexual paper. Student demonstrators picketed her meetings and Brisbane police arrested two youths and five girls who threw strawberry pies at her. Despite the protests, large crowds came out in support – including 5000 at an Adelaide march Mary led from Rymill Park to Parliament House on 10 September 800 in Hobart, 1000 in Brisbane, 2000 in Melbourne, 1500 in Perth where she was welcomed by Premier Sir Charles Court, and 4000 in the Sydney Town Hall on 27 September.\nThe Australian Festival of Light and some Catholic leaders invited Mother Teresa to Australia to mark the 1981 United Nations International Year of Disabled Persons. Mother Teresa was the guest speaker at the Festival of Light \"The Handicapped Child in the Community\" conference, attended by 800 people.\nFestival of Light Australia sponsored the Australian tour of US teenage singer and anti-abortion activist Gianna Jessen in February and March 1996. Jessen was born alive after a failed instillation abortion attempt left her with brain damage and cerebral palsy. She spoke to packed venues in all states and territories.\nThe September 2010 Australian tour by a Pakistani-born UK Anglican bishop, Michael Nazir-Ali, was the first major national event under the new FamilyVoice name. Speaking to the media, public and private meetings and seminars for Christian leaders (a total of over 2500 people attended in all mainland capitals), Nazir-Ali expounded the theme of \"Courage in a hostile world\". He described \"the triple jeopardy of aggressive secularism, radical Islam and a misplaced understanding of multiculturalism\".\n\nDavid and Roslyn Phillips were awarded Centenary Medals in 2001, respectively for \"service to family policy and community education as Chairman of the Festival of Light\"\nand for \"service to family activities and community education through the Festival of Light\".\n\nThe national magazine \"Light\" has won eight awards for excellence in religious journalism from the Australasian Religious Press Association.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1581157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1581157", "title": "Farmers' movement", "text": "Farmers' movement\n\nThe farmers' movement was, in American political history, the general name for a movement between 1867 and 1896. In this movement, there were three periods, popularly known as the Grange, Alliance and Populist movements.\n\nThe Grange, or Order of the Patrons of Husbandry (the latter official name of the national organization, while the former was the name of local chapters, including a supervisory National Grange at Washington), was a secret order founded in 1867 to advance the social needs and combat the economic backwardness of farm life. It was founded by Oliver H. Kelley, at that time an official working in Washington DC for the Dept. of Agriculture. He had been sent to Virginia to assess Southern agricultural resources and practices. He found them to be generally poor, and became determined to found an organization of farmers for the dissemination of information. As a Government official from the North, he must have received a generally hostile reception, but he was a Mason, and ended by founding his organization on the structure of that order. In addition to farming practices, it was to provide insurance and benevolent aid to members. He was in correspondence with his niece during the early period and both promoted the equal status of women and the principle of equal pay for equal work. The Grange grew remarkably during the early years: at its peak, its membership rose to approximately 1.5 million. The causes of its growth were much broader than just the financial crisis of 1873; a high tariff, railway freight rates and other grievances were mingled with agricultural troubles like the fall of wheat prices and the increase of mortgages.\n\nThe condition of the farmer seemed desperate. The original objects of the Grange were primarily educational, but these were soon overborne by an anti-middleman, co-operative movement. Grange agents bought everything from farm machinery to women's dresses; hundreds of grain elevators and cotton and tobacco warehouses were bought, and even steamboat lines; mutual insurance companies were formed and joint-stock stores. Nor was co-operation limited to distributive processes; crop reports were circulated, co-operative dairies multiplied, flour mills were operated, and patents were purchased, that the Grange might manufacture farm machinery.\n\nThe outcome in some states was ruin, and the name, Grange, became a reproach. Nevertheless, these efforts in co-operation were exceedingly important both for the results obtained and for their wider significance. Nor could politics be excluded, though officially taboo, for economics must be considered by social idealists, and economics everywhere ran into politics. Thus it was with the railway question.\n\nRailways had been extended into frontier states; there were heavy crops in sparsely settled regions where freight-rates were high, so that given the existing distributive system there were over production and waste; there was notorious stock manipulation and discrimination in rates; and the farmers regarded absentee ownership of railways by New York capitalists much as absentee ownership of land has been regarded in Ireland. The Grange officially disclaimed enmity to railways: Though the organization did not attack them, the Grangers, through political farmers clubs and the like, did. In 1867, the Grange began efforts to establish regulation of the railways as common-carriers, by the states. Such laws were known as Granger Laws, and their general principles, endorsed in 1876 by the Supreme Court of the United States, have become an important chapter in the laws of the land.\n\nIn a declaration of principles in 1874 Grangers were declared not to be enemies of railroads, and their cause to stand for no communism nor agrarianism. To conservatives, however, cooperation seemed communism, and Grange laws agrarianism; thus, in 1873-1874, the growth of the movement aroused extraordinary interest and much uneasiness. In 1874, the order was reorganized, membership being limited to persons directly interested in the farmers' cause (there had been a millionaire manufacturers Grange on Broadway), and after this there were constant quarrels in the order; moreover, in 1875, the National Grange largely lost control of the state Granges, which discredited the organization by their disastrous co-operation ventures. Thus, by 1876, it had already ceased to be of national political importance.\n\nAbout 1880, a renaissance began, particularly in the Middle States and New England; this revival was marked by a recurrence to the original social and educational objects. The national Grange and state Granges (in all, or nearly all, of the states) were still active in 1909, especially in the old cultural movement and in such economic movements, notably the improvement of highways as most directly concern the farmers. The initiative and referendum, and other proposals of reform politics in the direction of a democratic advance, also enter in a measure into their propaganda.\n\nThe Alliance carried the movement further into economics. The National Farmers Alliance and Industrial Union, formed in 1889, embraced several originally independent organizations (including The Agricultural Wheel) formed from 1873 onwards; it was largely confined to the South and was secret. The National Farmers Alliance, formed in 1880, went back similarly to 1877, was much smaller, Northern and non-secret. The Colored Farmers' National Alliance and Cooperative Union (formed 1888, merged in the above Southern Alliance in 1890) was the second greatest organization. With these three were associated many others, state and national, including an annual, non-partisan, deliberative and advisory Farmers National Congress. The Alliance movement reached its greatest power about 1890, in which year twelve national farmers organizations were represented in conventions in St Louis, and the six leading ones alone probably had a membership of 5,000,000. As with the Grange, so in the ends and declarations of the whole later movement, concrete remedial legislation for agricultural or economic ills was mingled with principles of vague radical tendency and with lofty idealism. Thus, the Southern Alliance in 1890 (the chief platforms were the one at Ocala, Florida, and that of 1889 at St Louis, Missouri, in conjunction with the Knights of Labor) declared its principles to be:\n(1) To labour for the education of the agricultural classes in the science of economical government in a strictly non-partisan way, and to bring about a more perfect union of such classes. (2) To demand equal rights to all, and special privileges to none. (3) To endorse the motto: In things essential, unity; in all things, charity. (4) To develop a better state, mentally, morally, socially and financially - - - (6) To suppress personal, local, sectional and national prejudices.\nFor the Southern farmer a chief concrete evil was the crop-lien system, mortgages on their future crops for furnished supplies by which cotton farmers fell into debt to country merchants. In the North the farmer attacked a wide range of capitalistic legislation that hurt him, he believed, for the benefit of other classes, notably legislation sought by railways.\nPractically all the great organizations demanded the abolition of national banks, the free coinage of silver, a sufficient issue of government paper money, tariff revision, and a secret ballot (the last was soon realized). Only less commonly demanded were an income tax, taxation of evidence of debt, and government loans on lands. All of these were principles of the two great Alliances (the Northern and the Southern), as were also pure food legislation, abolition of landholding by aliens, reclamation of unused or unearned land grants (to railways, e.g.), and either rigid federal regulation of railways and other means of communication or government ownership thereof. The Southern Alliance put in the forefront a subtreasury scheme according to which cheap loans should be made by government from local sub-treasuries on non-perishable farm products (such as grain and cotton) stored in government warehouses; while the Northern Alliance demanded restriction of the liquor traffic and for (a short time) woman suffrage. Still other issues were a modification of the patent laws (e.g., to prevent the purchase of patents to stifle competition), postal currency exchange, the eight-hour day, inequitable taxation, the single tax on land, trusts, educational qualification for suffrage, direct popular election of federal judges, of senators, and of the president, special-interest lobbying.\n\nIn 1889-1890, with the rapid growth in membership, the political (non-partisan) movement developed astonishing strength; it captured the Republican stronghold of Kansas, brought the Democratic Party to vassalage in South Carolina, revolutionized legislatures even in conservative states like Massachusetts, and seemed likely completely to dominate the South and West. All its work in the South was accomplished within the old-party organizations, but, in 1890, the demand became strong for an independent third party, for which various consolidations since 1887 had prepared the way. By 1892, a large part of the strength of the farmers organizations, with that of various industrial and radical orders, was united in the People's Party (perhaps more generally known as the Populist Party), which had its beginnings in Kansas in 1890, and received national organization in 1892.\n\nThe People's Party emphasized free silver, the income tax, eight-hour day, reclamation of land grants, government ownership of railways, telephones and telegraphs, popular election of federal senators, and the initiative and referendum. In the presidential election of 1892, it cast 1,041,021 votes (in a total of 12,036,089), and elected 22 presidential electors, the first chosen by any third party since 1856. In 1896, the People's Party fused with the Democratic Party in the presidential campaign, and again in 1900. During this period, the greatest part of the People's Party was reabsorbed into the two great parties from which its membership had originally been drawn; in some northern states apparently largely into the Republican ranks, but mainly into the Democratic Party, to which it gave a powerful radical impulse.\n\nThe Farmers' movement was much misunderstood, abused and ridiculed by the societal forces it challenged. However, it accomplished a vast amount of good. The movement—and especially the Grange, for on most important points the latter movements only followed where it had led—contributed the initial impulse and prepared the way for the establishment of traveling and local rural libraries, reading courses, lyceums, farmers institutes (a steadily increasing influence) and rural free mail delivery (inaugurated experimentally in 1896 and adopted as part of the permanent postal system of the country in 1902); for agricultural exhibits and an improved agricultural press; for encouragement to and increased profit from the work of agricultural colleges, the establishment (1885) and great services of the United States Department of Agriculture, -- in short, for an extraordinary lessening of rural isolation and the betterment of the farmers opportunities; for the irrigation of the semi-arid West, adopted as a national policy in 1902, the pure-food laws of 1906, the interstate-commerce law of 1887, the railway-rate laws of 1903 and 1906, even the great Bureau of Commerce-and-Labor law of 1903, and the Anti-trust laws of 1903 and later. The Alliance and Populist movements were bottomed on the idea of \"ethical gains through legislation.\"\n\nIn its local manifestations the whole movement was often marked by eccentric ideas, narrow prejudices and weaknesses in economic reasoning. It is not to be forgotten that owing to the movement of the frontier the United States has always been \"at once a developed country and a primitive one. The same political questions have been put to a society advanced in some regions and undeveloped in others. ... On specific political questions each economic area has reflected its peculiar interests\" (Prof. F.J. Turner). That this idea must not, however, be over-emphasized, is admirably enforced by observing the great mass of farmer radicalism that has, since about 1896, become an accepted Democratic and Republican principle over the whole country. The Farmers movement was the beginning of widespread, effective protest against \"the menace of privilege\" in the United States.\n\n\n\nEncyclopædia Britannica (v.5, p. 182) states that: American periodicals, especially in 1890-1892, are particularly informing on the growth of the movement:\nand on agricultural discontent:\n\n"}
{"id": "6088581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6088581", "title": "Foreign Languages Publishing House", "text": "Foreign Languages Publishing House\n\nThe Foreign Languages Publishing House (FLPH) is the central North Korean publishing bureau of foreign-language documents, located in the Potonggang-guyok of Pyongyang, North Korea. It employs a small group of foreigners to revise translations of North Korean texts so as to make those texts suitable for foreign-language publication.\n\nThe publishing house is under the control of the Propaganda and Agitation Department of the Workers' Party of Korea, which also makes decisions concerning its staff.\n\nForeign Languages Publishing House maintains the Naenara and Publications of the DPRK web portals, and publishes the periodicals \"\", \"Korea Today\", \"Foreign Trade of the DPRK\", and the newspaper \"Pyongyang Times\".\n\nForeign Languages Publishing House has a sports team in the Paektusan Prize civil servants games.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45239953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45239953", "title": "Freedom Caucus", "text": "Freedom Caucus\n\nThe Freedom Caucus, also known as the House Freedom Caucus, is a congressional caucus consisting of conservative and libertarian Republican members of the United States House of Representatives. It was formed in 2015 by what member Jim Jordan called a \"smaller, more cohesive, more agile and more active\" group of conservative Congressmen, and is currently chaired by Rep. Mark Meadows.\n\nMany members are also part of the much larger Republican Study Committee. The caucus is sympathetic to the Tea Party movement. The Freedom Caucus is considered the furthest-right grouping within the House Republican Conference.\n\nThe origins of the caucus lie at the mid-January 2015 Republican congressional retreat in Hershey, Pennsylvania. Nine conservative active Republican members of the House began planning a new Congressional caucus separate from the Republican Study Committee and apart from the House Republican Conference. The group ultimately became the nine founding members and the first board of directors for the new caucus consisting of Republican Representatives Scott Garrett of New Jersey, Jim Jordan of Ohio, John Fleming of Louisiana, Matt Salmon of Arizona, Justin Amash of Michigan, Raúl Labrador of Idaho, Mick Mulvaney of South Carolina, Ron DeSantis of Florida and Mark Meadows of North Carolina.\n\nThe group debated a name for their new caucus eventually settling on \"House Freedom Caucus\" (HFC) because, according to founding member Mick Mulvaney, \"it was so generic and universally awful that we had no reason to be against it.\" The group of nine founding members in Hershey set as a criterion for new members that they had to be willing to vote against Speaker of the United States House of Representatives John Boehner on legislation that the group opposed.\n\nDuring the crisis over the funding of the Department of Homeland Security in early 2015, the Caucus offered four plans for resolution, but all were rejected by the Republican leadership. One of the caucus leaders, Labrador of Idaho, said the Caucus will offer an alternative that the most conservative Republican members could support.\n\nThe House Freedom Caucus was involved in the resignation of Boehner on September 25, 2015 and the ensuing leadership battle for the new Speaker. Members of the Caucus who had voted against Boehner for Speaker felt unfairly punished, accusing him of cutting them off from positions in the Republican Study Committee and depriving them of key committee assignments. Boehner found it increasingly difficult to manage House Republicans with the fierce opposition of the Freedom Caucus, and he sparred with House Republican members in 2013 over their willingness to shut down the government in pursuit of goals such as repealing the Affordable Care Act. These members later created and became members of the Freedom Caucus when it was created in 2015.\n\nAfter Boehner resigned as speaker, Kevin McCarthy, the House Majority Leader, was initially the lead contender to succeed him, but the Freedom Caucus withheld its support. However, McCarthy withdrew from the race on October 8, 2015, after appearing to suggest that the Benghazi investigation's purpose had been to lower the approval ratings of Hillary Clinton. On the same day as McCarthy's withdrawal, Reid Ribble resigned from the Freedom Caucus saying he had joined to promote certain policies and could not support the role that it was playing in the leadership race.\n\nOn October 20, 2015, Paul Ryan announced that his bid for the Speaker of the United States House of Representatives was contingent on an official endorsement by the Freedom Caucus. While the group could not reach the 80% approval that was needed to give an official endorsement, on October 21, 2015, it announced that it had reached a supermajority support for Ryan. On October 29, 2015, Ryan succeeded John Boehner as the Speaker of the House.\n\nOn October 30, 2017, \"Vanity Fair\" published an interview with former Speaker Boehner, who said of the Freedom Caucus: \"They can’t tell you what they’re for. They can tell you everything they’re against. They’re anarchists. They want total chaos. Tear it all down and start over. That’s where their mindset is.\"\n\nThe group faced backlash from the Republican Party establishment during the 2016 election cycle. One of its members, Congressman Tim Huelskamp, a Tea Party Republican representing Kansas' First District, was defeated during a primary election on August 2, 2016 by Roger Marshall.\n\nOn March 24, 2017, the American Health Care Act (AHCA), the House Republican bill to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, was withdrawn by Republican House Speaker Paul Ryan because it lacked the votes to pass, due in large part to opposition from Freedom Caucus Republicans.\n\nTwo days later, President Donald Trump publicly criticized the Freedom Caucus and other right-wing groups, such as the Club for Growth and Heritage Action, that opposed the bill. Trump tweeted: \"Democrats are smiling in D.C. that the Freedom Caucus, with the help of Club For Growth and Heritage, have saved Planned Parenthood & Obamacare!\" On the same day, Congressman Ted Poe of Texas resigned from the Freedom Caucus. On March 30, 2017, Trump \"declared war\" on the Freedom Caucus, sending a tweet urging Republicans to \"fight them\" in the 2018 midterm elections \"if they don't get on the team\" (i.e., support Trump's proposals). Vocal Freedom Caucus member Justin Amash responded by accusing Trump of \"succumb[ing] to the D.C. Establishment.\"\n\nTrump has since developed a closer relationship with the caucus chair, Mark Meadows. In April 2018, Trump described four caucus members – Meadows, Jim Jordan, Ron DeSantis and Matt Gaetz – as \"absolute warriors\" for their defense of him during the course of the Special Counsel investigation.\n\nThe House Freedom Caucus does not disclose the names of its members. In the current (115th) Congress, the group has about three dozen members. A number of members have identified themselves, or have been identified by others, as members of the Freedom Caucus, including:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5393201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5393201", "title": "Gang in Blue", "text": "Gang in Blue\n\nGang in Blue is a 1996 American film co-directed by Melvin Van Peebles and his son, Mario Van Peebles, about a black police officer who discovers a cell of white supremacist vigilantes within his department.\n\n"}
{"id": "2009957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009957", "title": "Gay-friendly", "text": "Gay-friendly\n\nGay-friendly or LGBT-friendly are the places, policies, people or institutions that are open and welcoming to gay people (to include all members of the LGBTQ community) to create an environment that is supportive of gay people and their relationships, respectful of all people, treat all people equally, and are non-judgmental. This is typically a late 20th-century North American term that is the byproduct of both a gradual implementation of gay rights and acceptance of policies supportive of LGBTQ people in the workplace and in schools, as well as the recognition of gays and lesbians as a distinct consumer group for businesses.\n\nCities that are known worldwide as being gay-friendly include San Francisco, Seattle, Tel Aviv, New York City, Sydney, Rio de Janeiro, Melbourne, Madrid, Paris, Puerto Vallarta, Chicago, Brighton, Amsterdam, Buenos Aires, Montería, London, Copenhagen and Berlin amongst others.\n\nThe Advocate publishes a list periodically of the gayest cities in America that include cities such as Minneapolis, Albuquerque, San Diego, Austin, and several others based on facts such as their same sex marriage laws, number of same sex couples, and other qualifiers.\n\nThe Spartacus International Gay Guide publishes the Gay Travel Index, a ranking of gay-friendly countries. Points are added to countries for anti-discrimination legislation, equal marriage, partnership and adoption laws, and LGBT marketing. Meanwhile, points are subtracted for anti-LGBT laws, HIV travel restrictions, religious influence, and prosecution, murders and death sentences to LGBT.\n\nIn 2013, the Spartacus Gay Travel Index features a majority of Western European countries in the top 11 (Sweden, Denmark, Iceland, Norway, Finland, Belgium, France, the Netherlands, United Kingdom and Spain), plus Canada, New Zealand and Uruguay. The bottom 5 countries are Iran, the United Arab Emirates, Russia, Jordan and Jamaica.\n\nSpartacus also publishes a Gay Travel Index USA, listing the 50 states plus the District of Columbia with the same criteria as the countries ranking. In 2013, the top 5 regions are from the Northeast, whereas the top 10 also includes California, Illinois and Oregon. The bottom 10 states are mainly from the Southeast, except for a few Mountain states (Utah, Idaho and Montana).\n\nMany businesses now identify as gay-friendly, allowing for a more diversified employee and customer base. The Human Rights Campaign works to achieve equality for gays, lesbians and other and publishes a list of companies in relation to issues concerning LGBT people. Companies that are noted for gay-friendly work environments include Dell Inc. and The Coca-Cola Company. Companies such as R Family Vacations, Manspray, Volkswagen, Ginch Gonch and Egotour and numerous others offer niche products and services for gay customers. Others, such as LOT Polish Airlines sends the message of gay-friendliness by offering travel to major gay destinations with a rainbow flag Studies have shown that LGBT communities tend to favor gay-friendly businesses, even if the cost of a particular product or service is higher.\n\nNotes\n\n1 In 2015 Florida explicitly lifted the adoption ban for homosexuals after federal judges ruled it unconstitutional in 2010.\n\n2 In Texas as a result from supreme court ruling from 2003 in the case Lawrence v. Texas the sodomy law was deemed to contradict the constitution of the USA. The sodomy laws are however still found in the code of law in Texas, although no longer enforced.\n\n3 Despite supreme court's decision on same-sex marriage, officials of one Texas county, Irion, issue marriage licenses but claim they will refuse same-sex couples. None have applied and no legal action has been taken.\n\n4 Officials in eight Alabama counties no longer issue any marriage licenses. This is being done in accordance with a state law, which in 1961 was created to preserve racial segregation and made it optional for county clerks to issue marriage licenses. Several have chosen to exercise this option since the \"Obergefell\" ruling.\n\nNotes:\n\n1 In Northern Ireland the legal situation for same-sex adoption is unclear.\n\n2 In Canada the adoption laws vary per province. Same-sex-adoption is however possible countrywide.\n\n3 The Employment Equality Act allows religious-run workplaces exemption from its anti-discrimination provisions in order to protect their ethos.\n\n4 In Germany, due to federal government system, there are varying regulations regarding arrival/residence HIV. For example, in Bavaria someone who is HIV-positive can be denied entry. The Federal Constitutional Court has stipulated in several renditions of judgment that the politicians implement the same rights for gay men and lesbians which apply to heterosexuals.\n\n5 In Israel a civil marriage for both homosexual and heterosexual couples is not possible as marriage can only be performed by a Rabbi. This problem does not only apply to gays and lesbians but also heterosexuals belonging to different religious affiliations. There are limited anti-discrimination laws (exception: certain religious groups).\n\n6 The Virgin Islands of the USA have the same legal status as Puerto Rico regarding the USA. Here there is also a ban on hate crimes. After the Supreme Court decision pro same sex marriage in the US, there are plans to implement SSM in Puerto Rico too.\n\n7 Bosnia and Herzegovina passed an unclear anti-discrimination law in 2009 in which a ban on discrimination against “sexual expression” is mentioned. There is a reference that “sexual identity” is not meant in this case. It is obvious that an attempt to adhere to the minimum requirements from the EU has been made, in order to be accepted into the EU.\n\n8 As an overseas territory of the Netherlands St. Maarten recognizes same-sex marriages which are performed in the Netherlands. In St. Maarten itself gay marriage is still not possible, but changes can soon follow. There are no adoption laws.\n\n9 There are regional differences in the laws relating to homosexuals. In addition, the local religion is just as crucial, whether a law is implemented or not.\n\n10 In May 2016 the Parliament of Seychelles decided to make homosexuality legal.\n\n11 From Armenia we received many reports of illegal violence from police against homosexuals.\n\n12 In Honduras an anti-discrimination law has recently been passed, but in practice it is ignored.\n\n13 In Botswana is homosexuality practically illegally on the basis of the ban on “unnatural act”, but in the labor law there is still an explicit prohibition of discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation.\n\n14 In Mauritius, the sodomy law tends to find application with the heterosexual population. The Equal Opportunities Act protects homosexuals against discrimination at work. It is therefore questionable whether homosexuality is classified as illegal or not.\n\n15 Consensual homosexual acts in Peru between adults are legal. An exception applies for members of the military and police, who can be prosecuted with a prison sentence ranging from 60 days to 20 years or suspension from duty.\n\n16 There are reports of a different judicial interpretations of the law on “sex against nature’.\n\n17 In December 2013, the Supreme Court set aside a 2009 verdict by the Delhi High Court that had decriminalized homosexuality. This has turned gay sex into a punishable offence once again and catapulted India back into the legal standpoint of colonial times under the British.\n\n18 At the request of the UNHCR Sri Lanka has announced that discrimination of homosexuals is constitutionally forbidden. It was further stressed that the anti-sodomy law is not aimed against homosexuals, but applies for all to protect public morals.\n\n19 In Bahrain although the paragraph referring to sodomy was abolished in 1976 from the local legal code, gay men can still be punished with imprisonment according to the laws regarding “unmoral” behavior.\n\n20 Police stopped violently the Gay Pride on June 29 th, 2015. This can be considered a de facto ban on the Pride.\n\n21 The Shariah-law in Djibouti is often superior to the constitutional laws, so that it could be expected that homosexuality is punishable.\n\n22 In Ghana there is a ban on unnatural sex. The government recognizes in this a clear ban on homosexuality.\n\n23 In Nigeria the death penalty only applies for homosexuals according to the Shariah laws and therefore relates only to Muslims in the north of Nigeria.\n\n24 Homosexuality in Iraq is formally legal, but police and military track down homosexuals, and reports of murder and rape exist.\n\n25 The Vatican City adheres to Italian law, but restrictions are possible if the ecclesiastical law contradicts\nItalian law. Therefore, there are conflicting opinions that homosexuality is not illegal or just not happily seen, but tolerated.\n\n26 Shariah laws applies in Somalia since 2012. There is however contradictory information, since, on the one hand the maximum penalty is up to 3 years in prison, but 2013 a homosexual was stoned to death after a judgment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "489674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=489674", "title": "Government agency", "text": "Government agency\n\nA government or state agency, sometimes an appointed commission, is a permanent or semi-permanent organization in the machinery of government that is responsible for the oversight and administration of specific functions, such as an intelligence agency. There is a notable variety of agency types. Although usage differs, a government agency is normally distinct both from a department or ministry, and other types of public body established by government. The functions of an agency are normally executive in character, since different types of organizations (\"such as commissions\") are most often constituted in an advisory role—this distinction is often blurred in practice however.\n\nA government agency may be established by either a national government or a state government within a federal system. \"The term is not normally used for an organization created by the powers of a local government body\". Agencies can be established by legislation or by executive powers. The autonomy, independence and accountability of government agencies also vary widely.\n\nEarly examples of organizations that would now be termed a government agency include the British Navy Board, responsible for ships and supplies, which was established in 1546 by King Henry VIII and the British Commissioners of Bankruptcy established in 1570.\n\nFrom 1933, the New Deal saw growth in US federal agencies, the \"alphabet agencies\" as they were used to deliver new programs created by legislation, such as the Federal Emergency Relief Administration.\n\nFrom the 1980s, as part of New Public Management, several countries including Australia and the United Kingdom developed the use of agencies to improve efficiency in public services.\n\nAdministrative law in France refers to \"autorité administrative indépendante\" (AAI) or Independent Administrative Authorities. They tend to be prominent in the following areas of public policy;\n\nIndependent Administrative Authorities in France may not be instructed or ordered to take specific actions by government.\n\nThe General Secretariat for Macedonia and Thrace (Greek: Γενική Γραμματεία Μακεδονίας-Θράκης), previously Ministry for Macedonia and Thrace (Greek: Υπουργείο Μακεδονίας-Θράκης) is a government agency of the Hellenic Republic that is responsible for the Greek regions of Macedonia and Thrace.\n\nThe term \"agency\" in India has several meanings; for example, the Cabinet and the parliament Secretariat describes itself as a \"\"nodal agency\" for coordination amongst the ministries of the Govt. of India\". Most notably as an international feature, what appear to be independent agencies (\"or apex agencies\") include some that have active roles for Ministers: such as, the National Security Council, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, and the Planning Commission, which is chaired ex officio by the Prime Minister.\n\nRussia has had many government agencies throughout its history. The USSR had the secretive KGB.\nToday, Russian government agencies such as the FSB, FSO, and the GRU use Spetsnaz or other masked operators for any missions.\nOther organizations include Kremlin and presidential security.\n\nThe Government agencies in Sweden are state controlled organizations who act independently to carry out the policies of the Swedish Government. The Government Ministries are relatively small and merely policy-making organizations, allowed to control agencies by policy decisions but not by direct orders. This means that while the agencies are subject to decisions made by the Government, Ministers are explicitly prohibited (so called \"ministerstyre\") from interfering with the day-to-day operation in an agency or the outcome in individual cases as well.\n\nAgencies in the United Kingdom are either executive agencies answerable to government ministers or non-departmental public bodies answerable directly to one of the parliaments or devolved assemblies of the United Kingdom. They are also commonly known as Quangos.\n\nAgencies can be created by enabling legislation by the Parliament of the United Kingdom, Scottish Parliament or the National Assembly for Wales.\n\nAgencies in England usually answer to Westminster or the British Government. In Scotland they usually answer to the Scottish Government or the Scottish Parliament and in Wales to the National Assembly for Wales.\n\nSome have remits that cover the entire UK and these organisations are funded by and answer to the British Government.\n\nThe Congress and President of the United States delegate specific authority to government agencies to regulate the complex facets of the modern American federal state. Also, most of the 50 U.S. states have created similar government agencies. Each of the 50 states' governments is pretty similar to the national government with most having some form of a senate and house of representatives.\nThe term \"government agency\" or \"administrative agency\" usually applies to one of the independent agencies of the United States government, which exercise some degree of independence from the President's control. Although the heads of independent agencies are often appointed by the government, they can usually be removed only for cause. The heads of independent agencies work together in groups, such as a commission, board or council. Independent agencies often function as miniature versions of the tripartite federal government with the authority to legislate (through the issuing, or \"promulgation\" of regulations), to adjudicate disputes, and to enforce agency regulations (through enforcement personnel). Examples of independent agencies include the Federal Communication Commission (FCC), Federal Reserve Board, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC).\n\nA broader definition of the term \"government agency\" also means the United States federal executive departments that include the President's cabinet-level departments, and their sub-units. Examples of these agencies include the Department of Energy (DOE) and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), which is a bureau of the Department of the Treasury.\n\nMost federal agencies are created by Congress through statutes called \"enabling acts\" which define the scope of an agency's authority. Because the Constitution does not expressly mention federal agencies (as it does the three branches), some commentators have called agencies the \"headless fourth branch\" of the federal government. However, most independent agencies are technically part of the executive branch, with a few located in the legislative branch of government. By enacting the Administrative Procedure Act (APA) in 1946, Congress established some means to oversee government agency action. The APA established uniform administrative law procedures for a federal agency's promulgation of rules, and adjudication of claims. The APA also sets forth the process for judicial review of agency action.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56447275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56447275", "title": "Greater New York Conference on Soviet Jewry", "text": "Greater New York Conference on Soviet Jewry\n\nThe Greater New York Conference on Soviet Jewry (GNYCSJ) was founded in 1971, as a non-governmental grassroots organization that worked to secure human rights for Jews in the Soviet Union. It served as an umbrella agency for a number of regional organizations of the Soviet Jewry movement. In the 1980 GNYCSJ was renamed Coalition for Soviet Jewry.\n\nThe organization gathered information on the conditions of Jews in the USSR, mostly from the American tourists visiting refuseniks in Soviet Union, and informed federal, state, and local government officials, thus influencing the Soviet-American relations during the two final decades of the Cold War. The GNYCSJ organized public events aimed to raise public awareness of the plight of the Soviet Jewry, including annual Solidarity Sunday rallies that gathered large crowds of supporters in New York City. GNYCSJ co-sponsored the 1987 Freedom Sunday for Soviet Jews in Washington, D.C. attended by 250,000 participants.\n\nMalcolm Hoenlin was the first director of GNYCSJ. During the 1980s GNYCSJ was chaired by Seymour P. Lachman, who was also a member of the Board of Directors of the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society (HIAS). Zeesy Schnur served as the Executive Director.\n\n"}
{"id": "3934511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3934511", "title": "Greek wiretapping case 2004–05", "text": "Greek wiretapping case 2004–05\n\nThe Greek wiretapping case of 2004-2005, also referred to as Greek Watergate, involved the illegal tapping of more than 100 mobile phones on the Vodafone Greece network belonging mostly to members of the Greek government and top-ranking civil servants. The taps began sometime near the beginning of August 2004 and were removed in March 2005 without discovering the identity of the perpetrators.\n\nThe phones tapped included those of the Prime Minister Kostas Karamanlis and members of his family, the Mayor of Athens, Dora Bakoyannis, most phones of the top officers at the Ministry of Defense, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry for Public Order, members of the ruling party, ranking members of the opposition Panhellenic Socialist Movement party (PASOK), the Hellenic Navy General Staff, the previous Minister of Defense and one phone of a locally hired Greek American employee of the American Embassy. Phones of Athens-based Arab businessmen were also tapped.\n\nForeign and Greek media have raised United States intelligence agencies as the main suspects. AFP reported that one Greek official stated on background that the likely initial penetration occurred during the run-up to the 2004 Athens Olympics, stating: \"it is evident that the wiretaps were organized by foreign intelligence agencies, for security reasons related to the 2004 Olympic Games.\" The leader of the PASOK socialist opposition George Papandreou said that the Greek government itself had pointed towards the US as responsible for the wiretaps by giving up the zone of listening range, in which the US embassy was included. In 2015, after an investigation lasting 10 years, Greek investigators have found conclusive evidence linking the wiretapping to the US Embassy in Athens. As a result of the investigation, Greek authorities have issued an arrest warrant for a certain William George Basil, a NSA operative from a Greek immigrant background.\n\nThe Ericsson switches used by Vodafone Greece were compromised and unauthorized software was installed that made use of legitimate tapping modules, known as \"lawful interception\", while bypassing the normal monitoring and logging that would take place when a legal tap is set up. This software was eventually found to be installed on four of Vodafone's Ericsson AXE telephone exchanges.\n\nIn modern mobile telecommunication networks, legal wiretaps, known as lawful interceptions, are performed at the switch. Ericsson AXE telephone exchanges support lawful intercepts via the remote-control equipment subsystem (RES), which carries out the tap, and the interception management system (IMS), software used for initiating addition of the tap to the RES database. \nIn a fully operating lawful interception system the RES and IMS both create logs of all numbers being tapped, allowing system administrators to perform audits in order to find unauthorized taps.\n\nTo successfully wiretap phone numbers without detection, as the intruders did, a special set of circumstances had to be present. The RES had to be active on the exchange, but the IMS had to be unused. At the time of the illegal wiretaps, Vodafone had not yet purchased the lawful intercept options, meaning the IMS was not present on their systems. However, an earlier exchange software upgrade had included the RES. In addition, the intruders needed to continue to have access to the exchange software to change tapped numbers, without alerting system administrators that the exchange had been modified. Normally, all changes to exchange software would be logged. To get around this, the intruders installed a rootkit on the exchange, a piece of software that would modify the exchange software on the fly to hide all changes and, in case of an audit, to make the exchange appear as though it had been untouched.\n\nWhen one of the tapped phones made or received a phone call, the exchange, or switch, sent a duplication of the conversation to one of fourteen anonymous prepaid mobile phones. As these phones are not associated with a contract, retrieving details of their owners is very difficult. About half of the intercepting phones were activated between June and August 2004. The base stations that serviced those phones were in an area near the center of Athens.\n\nOn January 24, 2005, an intruder update of exchange software resulted in customer text messages not being sent. Vodafone Greece sent firmware dumps of the affected exchanges to Ericsson for analysis. On March 4, 2005, Ericsson located the rogue code, 6500 lines of code written in the PLEX programming language used by Ericsson AXE switches. Writing such sophisticated code in a very esoteric language required a high level of expertise. Much of Ericsson's software development for AXE had been done by an Athens-based company named Intracom Telecom, so the skills needed to write the rogue software were likely available within Greece.\n\nOn March 7, 2005, Ericsson notified Vodafone of the existence of rogue wiretaps and software in their systems. The next day the general manager of the Greek Vodafone branch, George Koronias, asked for the software to be removed and deactivated. Because the rogue software was removed before law enforcement had an opportunity to investigate, the perpetrators were likely alerted that their software had been found and had ample opportunity to turn off the \"shadow\" phones to avoid detection. According to the head of Greece's intelligence service, Ioannis Korantis: \"From the moment that the software was shut down, the string broke that could have lead us to who was behind this.\"\n\nOn March 9, the Network Planning Manager for Vodafone Greece, Kostas Tsalikidis, was found dead in an apparent suicide. According to several experts questioned by the Greek press, Tsalikidis was a key witness in the investigation of responsibility of the wiretaps. Family and friends believe there are strong indications he was the person who first discovered that highly sophisticated software had been secretly inserted into the Vodafone network. Tsalikidis had been planning for a while to quit his Vodafone job but told his fiancée not long before he died that it had become \"a matter of life or death\" that he leave, says the family's lawyer, Themis Sofos. There is speculation that either he committed suicide because of his involvement in the tapping of the phones, or he was murdered because he had discovered, or was about to discover, who the perpetrators were. After a four-month investigation of his death, Supreme Court prosecutor Dimitris Linos said that the death of Tsalikidis was directly linked to the scandal. \"If there had not been the phone tapping, there would not have been a suicide,\" he said.\n\nIn November, 2007, press reports in Greece quoted the Tsalikidis family attorney, Themistokles Sofos, as saying they had commenced legal action against Vodafone, \"suspect[ing] he was poisoned\".\n\nOn March 10 Koronias asked to meet Prime Minister Karamanlis to discuss matters of national security. At 20:00 on the same day he presented the facts to the Minister of Public Order and the Prime Minister's chief of staff, and on the next day he presented them to the Prime Minister.\n\nA preliminary judicial investigation was carried out, which, due to the complexity of the case, lasted until February 1, 2006. The preliminary investigation did not point out any persons connected with the case. The investigation was hindered by the fact that Vodafone disabled the interception system, and therefore locating the intercepting phones was no longer possible (the phones were apparently switched off), and that Vodafone had incorrectly purged all access logs. Police rounded up and questioned as suspects persons who called the monitoring phones, but all callers claimed they called these phones because their number was previously used by another person.\n\nEricsson has checked their equipment in other markets world-wide and has not found the illegal software installed anywhere else. \"As far as Ericsson knows, this is a unique incident. We have never discovered anything like this before or since.\" Vodafone spokesman Ben Padovan said.\n\nThe investigation into the matter was further hampered when Greek law enforcement officials began to make accusations at both Vodafone and Ericsson, which forced experts on the defensive.\n\nA recent appeal of the main opposition party, PASOK, to form an investigating parliamentary committee was rejected by the governing party.\n\nIn December 2006 Vodafone Greece was fined €76 million by the Communications Privacy Protection Authority, a Greek privacy watchdog group, for the illegal wiretapping of 106 cellphones. The fine was calculated as €500,000 for each phone that was eavesdropped on, as well as a €15 million fine for impeding their investigation.\n\nOn October 19, 2007, Vodafone Greece was again fined €19 million by EETT, the national telecommunications regulator, for alleged breach of privacy rules.\n\nOn September 2011, new evidence emerged indicated the US Embassy in Athens was behind the telephone interceptions. The key evidence of complicity was that out of the 14 anonymous prepaid mobile phones used for the interception, three had been purchased by the same person at the same time as a fourth one. The fourth phone called mobile phones and landlines registered with the US Embassy in Athens. With a sim card registered to the US Embassy, it also called two telephone numbers in Ellicott City and Cantonsville, Maryland, both NSA bedroom communities. A criminal investigation was launched, and in February 2015, Greek investigators were finally able to finger a suspect, William George Basil, a NSA operative from a Greek immigrant background. Greek authorities have issued a warrant for Basil's arrest, who has since gone into hiding.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10054530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10054530", "title": "Griggstown Quail Farm", "text": "Griggstown Quail Farm\n\nGriggstown Quail Farm is a New Jersey producer of game birds that is run by George Rude. It was the winner of Edible Communities' New Jersey Farm local hero award in 2010.\n\nIt is located in the Griggstown section of Franklin Township, Somerset County, New Jersey, and was started in 1973 by George Rude with twelve quail on . At that time the farm was owned by Peter Josten. George purchased the land from Josten in 1992, the Griggstown Quail Farm grew to over of land. In 2007 the farm had about 35,000 pheasants, 70,000 quail, and 150,000 chickens. In season they raise Mallard duck, Muscovy duck, Bourbon Red turkey, and partridge. All the birds are free-range. \n\nThe birds are sold to D'Artagnan, Inc., in Newark, New Jersey. In addition, a number of other distributors and restaurants carry poultry raised on the farm. Distributors in New York include Cittarella Market and Ottomanelli Sons, as well as a number of New York City restaurants such as, North End Grill, Lutèce and The Four Seasons. New Jersey restaurants that use the poultry include The Bernards Inn, the former Ryland Inn, Mediterra, Tre Piani, elements, ShipWreck Point, Brothers Moon, Anton's at the Swan, Circa and the Lawrenceville Inn.\n\nAdam Brod of Mount Laurel, NJ is the Executive Chef.\n\n"}
{"id": "4704247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4704247", "title": "Halt All Racist Tours", "text": "Halt All Racist Tours\n\nHalt All Racist Tours (HART) was a protest group set up in New Zealand in 1969 to protest against rugby union tours to and from South Africa.\n\nUp until 1970, South Africa refused to allow mixed-race sports teams to tour South Africa, and they were not happy about having to play against \"natives\" in New Zealand. A protest movement against the 1960 New Zealand rugby union tour of South Africa used the slogan \"No Maoris, No Tour\", but it was unsuccessful at stopping the tour. In 1967, the New Zealand Rugby Union decided to cancel the proposed 1967 tour over the issue.\n\nTrevor Richards, Tom Newnham and others formed HART in 1969 to protest against the proposed 1970 tour. The tour went ahead after the South Africans agreed to accept a mixed-race team.\n\nIn 1973, HART promised a campaign of civil disruption if the Springboks toured New Zealand. The Labour Prime Minister, Norman Kirk, prohibited the tour. Rugby supporters objected, complaining that politics should not interfere in sport.\n\nThe All Blacks were next due to tour South Africa in 1976. Newly elected National Prime Minister Rob Muldoon refused to cancel the tour, which went ahead. Subsequently Commonwealth leaders adopted the Gleneagles Agreement whereby they agreed to discourage sporting contact with South Africa. 21 African nations boycotted the 1976 Summer Olympics in Montreal in protest against the All Black tour of South Africa.\n\nHART merged with the National Anti-Apartheid Council in 1980 to become HART: NZAAM (Halt All Racist Tours: New Zealand Anti-Apartheid Movement). After ten years as National Chairperson, Richards was replaced by John Minto.\n\nThe high point of protest was around the 1981 Springbok Tour in which thousands of New Zealanders protested, invaded pitches, and were involved in civil disobedience to stretch police resources. HART was not the leading body in these protests, as broader organisations were set up in each major centre to coordinate protests, but HART members played a leading role in these organisations.\n\nIn 1985, a planned All Black tour of South Africa was stopped by the New Zealand High Court after two lawyers sued the NZRFU, claiming such a tour would breach the NZRFU's constitution. An unofficial tour did take place in 1986 by a team including the majority of the All Blacks players selected for the previous year's cancelled tour. These were known as the New Zealand Cavaliers, but often advertised inside the Republic as the All Blacks or alternatively depicted with the Silver Fern. HART organised nationwide protests, but they were much smaller than the 1981 protests.\n\nHART's reason for existence ended with the dismantling of apartheid by the South African government. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1327973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1327973", "title": "Hearts of Iron II", "text": "Hearts of Iron II\n\nHearts of Iron II is a grand strategy computer war game for the PC based upon its predecessor, \"Hearts of Iron\", which was developed by Paradox Development Studio and published by Paradox Interactive.\n\nIt takes place in the period from 1 January 1936 through 30 December 1947 (1964 with the expansion), and allows the player to assume control of any one of over 175 nations of the time and guide its development through the years before, during and after the Second World War. It was developed by Paradox Interactive and released in 2005. The lead game programmer was Johan Andersson.\n\nA sequel, \"Hearts of Iron III\", was released in August 2009.\n\n\"Arsenal of Democracy\", a grand strategy wargame based on \"Hearts of Iron II\", was released in February 2010. \"Iron Cross\", a \"Hearts of Iron II\" expansion, was released on October 7, 2010, and \"\", a stand-alone strategy game based on \"Hearts of Iron II\", was released on April 5, 2011.\n\n\"Hearts of Iron II\" is a grand strategy game. The player can build land divisions, aircraft squadrons, and naval ships/fleets, and combine these into corps and armies. The player also has the ability to control the appointment of commanders of forces under their nation's flag or that of controlled nations as well as to control the appointment of individual government ministers and military commanders in key General Staff positions. The player also has a broader ability to control the heads of state and government; however, this option is only available to democracies and only then through elections, in which the player chooses the winner. Technological research is controlled by the player. All this is on a global scale, with the player simultaneously dealing and interacting with nations across the world. The game can be paused at any point.\n\nThe player can choose to play almost any nation from the time period, apart from some very small states such as Andorra, Monaco, Vatican City or others (and mods exist that make even these playable). The player can also play as a new nation that gains its independence as the game progresses, but should wait until the nation actually declares independence in the game before it can be played. However, many smaller nations do not have strong tech teams, nor do they possess a strong industrial base.\n\nThe player is able to manage his nation's foreign and internal policies on the Diplomacy page. The player can declare war, annex territories and make alliances. The player can also alter the social and economic policies of their nation using sliders, such as democratic versus authoritarian, free market versus central planning and so on. Moving the sliders will result in different bonuses and penalties, allowing for a range of choices and strategies.\n\nOn the same page, the player can appoint leaders and ministers, with some exceptions. The Head of State and Head of Government can only be changed through moving the Political Left vs. Political Right slider, or through elections and other one-time events.\n\n\"Hearts of Iron II\" features nine resources, of which six are conventional resources, and the other three are manpower, industrial capacity and transport capacity.\n\n\nThe six conventional resources can be traded with other countries, subject to potential disruption by enemy forces if the routes to the other country are occupied. Trade offers can be made to any other country, even ones with poor diplomatic relations, although allied nations are more willing to accept more favorable trade offers. Manpower, IC and TC are not tradeable.\n\nIn the game, a player assumes direct control of a nation at the start of a scenario through 1948. The following scenarios are available:\n\nAdded in \"Iron Cross\":\n\nPlayable operations are:\n\n\"Hearts of Iron II\" is a grand strategy game. The smallest independent land unit is the division, although brigades such as engineers, artillery, or armoured cars can be attached to these. On sea, units are either single capital ships or flotillas of small ships such as destroyers. For the air force, the unit is a Wing or Group, depending on nationality. Land divisions include infantry, cavalry, and tanks. Land brigades include anti-tank guns, anti-aircraft artillery and military police.\n\nOn the map the player can direct divisions or groups of divisions. Fighting starts when an army starts moving into a defended enemy territory. The invading units do not have to be inside enemy territory to attack. A province is immediately occupied when the invaders arrive there with no opposition left. Because of this, a player can blitz through large swaths of enemy lands with minimal micromanagement. In addition, units who move constantly lose organization and risk losing supply, so poorly executed attempts to blitzkrieg can be stopped. Provinces can be fortified and infrastructure increased to improve combat performance. Structures include radar, and static AA. Many fortifications are pre-built, such as the Maginot Line along the French-German border.\n\nAir units include bombers, fighters and transports. These divisions can, depending on type, engage in tactical or strategic missions. Sea units include transports, aircraft carriers, battleships, cruisers, destroyers, and submarines. Each unit has a strength, speed, and effective engagement range. Naval combats simulate the range between fleets, allowing only units in range to fire. This can make naval combats tactically complex.\n\nLike its predecessor \"Hearts of Iron\", the game is banned in the People's Republic of China. The main point of contention seems to be that the game portrays the various Chinese warlords as independent entities, while according to the PRC government they were nominally part of the Republic of China governed by the Chinese Nationalist government, represented in-game as 'Nationalist China'. Also, the Tibetan flag used in-game is banned in China. Paradox has stated that it will not reduce the level of historical accuracy in order to appease the PRC censors.\nAnachronistically, Germany is represented with the flag of the German Empire as used by Germany until 1935, and not the Swastika flag, as was also done in the earlier board game \"Axis & Allies\". Laws in Germany prohibit the use of the swastika. Additionally, in the German version of the game, pictures of leading Nazi leaders, such as Hitler, Göring, and Himmler were removed and their names subsequently altered, though this is not required under German censorship laws, and is not the case in non-German versions of the game. The game can be easily modified by users to include such graphics, but Paradox disallows discussion of this particular type of modification on their message boards.\n\nIn November 2005, a stand-alone expansion pack to the game, \"Hearts of Iron II: Doomsday\", was announced and it was released April 4, 2006. It contains everything that was in the original game while highlighting and expanding the period after historical World War II, including a hypothetical nuclear war between the Soviet Union and the Allies. The expansion pack features among other things a reworked intelligence model (which allows the player to use espionage, sabotage and other things in an \"intelligence page\" accessible through the main screen), improved AI and a scenario editor.\n\n\"Doomsday\" also features some other changes and additions such as:\n\nAnother expansion was released in April 2007 in an alternate history scenario called \"Hearts of Iron II: Armageddon\". It further allows more time and the player has the ability to choose 1964 as the end point. It allows the adding of modules to ships (such as improved radar, fire-control, anti-submarine or anti-aircraft weaponry) and submits two new scenarios for play, as well as an enhanced AI.\n\n\"Armageddon\" also features some other changes and additions such as:\n\n\"Iron Cross\" is an expansion of \"Hearts of Iron II: Armageddon\" released as a digital download on October 7, 2010, developed by Irshappa. It expands the number of provinces on the map as well as numerous other additions and can also be installed as an expansion of \"Arsenal of Democracy\" and \"\".\n\n\"Iron Cross\" also features some other changes and additions such as:\n\nSeveral free community game modifications were developed after the releases of \"Heart Of Iron II\", \"Doomsday\" and \"Armageddon\"; and with the same as a baseline. A popular mod called kaiserreich was released with positive reviews.\n\n\"Hearts of Iron II\" was commercially successful for Paradox; Hanza Aziz of Destructoid called it the company's \"first major hit.\" In the United States alone, it sold 80,000 copies on a marketing budget of $75,000.\n\nOn MetaCritic the following reception was achieved by Paradox Development Studio:\n\nGamespot gave it 8.3/10, writing that \"this is what the original game should have been.\"\nOn Steam, Hearts of Iron II was rated 9/10. At IGN, it received a score of 8.7/10.\n\n\"Hearts of Iron II\" was a finalist for \"PC Gamer US\"s \"Best Real-Time Strategy Game 2005\" award, which ultimately went to \"Age of Empires III\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29179908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29179908", "title": "ITHC", "text": "ITHC\n\nAn ITHC, or IT Health Check, is an IT security assessment required, as part of an accreditation process, for many government computer systems in the UK.\n\nAn ITHC is generally performed by an external service provider, although NCSC personnel may perform ITHCs on especially sensitive systems. It can touch on both applications and infrastructure, and involves an element of penetration testing.\n\nCHECK is a scheme for ITHC providers, run by NCSC.\n\n"}
{"id": "386271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=386271", "title": "Isabel Meighen", "text": "Isabel Meighen\n\nJessie Isabel Meighen (née Cox; April 18, 1882 – September 6, 1985) was the wife of Arthur Meighen, the ninth Prime Minister of Canada.\n\nShe was born in Granby, Quebec. She married Arthur Meighen in 1904, and they had two sons and one daughter:\n\n\nMeighen died at the age of 103 and was interred next to her husband in the St. Marys Cemetery in the town of St. Marys, Ontario.\n\n"}
{"id": "35536466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35536466", "title": "Issue voting", "text": "Issue voting\n\nThe term issue voting describes when voters cast their vote in elections based on political issues. In the context of an election, issues include \"any questions of public policy which have been or are a matter of controversy and are sources of disagreement between political parties.” According to the theory of issue voting, voters compare the candidates' respective principles against their own in order to decide for whom to vote.\n\nA voter does not need to have an in-depth understanding of every issue and knowledge of how a candidate stands on every issue, but rather a sense of which candidate they agree with the most. Voters use many different tactics to rationalize their view on a particular issue. Some people look at what has happened in the past and predict how they think a particular issue will affect them in the future.\n\nIssue voting is often contrasted with party voting. A 2010 University of California, Davis study found that voters switch between issue voting and party voting depending on how much information is available to them about a given candidate. Low-information elections, such as those for congressional candidates, would thus be determined by party voting, whereas presidential elections, which tend to give voters much more information about each candidate, have the potential to be issue-driven.\n\nVoters typically choose a political party to affiliate with in one of two ways. The voter will create an opinion of an issue without consulting what a political party thinks about it, then choose the political party that best fits the opinion they already have, or the voter will study the opinions of the different parties and decide which party he or she agrees with the most.\n\nA voter's understanding of parties' principles is strengthened and developed over time as a person gains experience with more political events. In order for an issue to create the foundation for party choice, a voter must first be concerned about a particular issue and have some knowledge about that issue.\n\nIn order for a person to be an issue voter, they must be able to recognize that there is more than one opinion about a particular issue, have formed a solid opinion about it and be able to relate that to a specific political party. According to Campbell, only 40 to 60 percent of the informed population even perceives party differences, and can thus partake in party voting. This would suggest that it is common for individuals to develop opinions of issues without the aid of a political party.\n\nPrior to \"The People's Choice\" study in 1944, it was assumed by political scientists that voting was based solely on issues. However, this study found little evidence of issue voting in the United States presidential election of 1940. Rather, the researchers found that issues reinforced political party loyalties. Research stemming from the study concluded that voters' motivations could be broken down into three categories: party identification, candidate orientation, and issue orientation. \"The American Voter\" in 1960 determined that party identification was the primary force, which in turn strongly influenced the other two categories. These three factors make up the Michigan School's approach to modeling voting behavior.\n\nSome of the earliest research on issue voting done in 1960 found that voters often did not have enough information to link specific issues to individual candidates. Converse, in 1964, also concluded that voters did not have a sophisticated enough understanding of issues to be able to link them to candidates. In 1966, Key was one of the first people to conclude that voters are able to connect issues to certain candidates and cast their vote based on that information. Despite the growing knowledge of the field, reliable evidence didn't begin to appear until the 1970s. \"American Political Science Review\" published a symposium that hypothesized that there was a rise in issue voting in the 1960s. Nie and Anderson published an analysis of correlations with issue orientations in 1974 that attempted to revise the Michigan School's theory of the public's political belief systems' inherent limitations. In 1979, Nie et all in \"The Changing American Voter\" attempted to explain the rise in issue voting through the fall in party voting. This decline of party voting, they claimed, came about because the proportion of the electorate with no party affiliation had fallen, and because the proportion of voters who cast votes for candidates from other parties had risen.\n\nIn recent years, the United States has seen a rise in issue voting. This can be attributed to the increased polarization in the last century between the Democratic Party and the Republican Party. Both of these parties have become more extreme in their issue viewpoints. This has alienated moderates from their parties. Since a large portion of American voters are moderates, an increase has been seen in the number people who choose to affiliate as Independent. \nIdentifying as an independent allows voters to avoid the constraints of a polarized political party. An independent voter can hand-pick a candidate based upon their positions on various issues rather than on their political party.\n\nCatholics face the \"issue voting vs. party voting\" dilemma. Many Catholics support the pro-life stance which is backed by Republicans, but strongly oppose the death penalty, which the Republican Party also supports. Extreme party polarization might cause Catholic voters to feel uncomfortable about both Republican and Democratic presidential candidates.\n\nMembers of labor unions strongly identify with the Democratic Party's advocacy for workers' rights, but unions also tend to not support gay rights, a stance which more closely aligns with Republican views.\n\nMany factors can complicate issue voting. First, issues are not always dichotomous; there are often many stances one could take. Voters often must settle for the candidate whose stances are closest to their own. This can prove difficult when two or more candidates have similar opinions, or when candidates have positions that are equally far from a voter's. An example of an issue which might be difficult to issue vote on is education spending. A voter may have a drastically different opinion from the available candidates on how much money should be spent on schools; this could lead the individual to vote based on party affiliation instead.\n\nA second complexity is that, oftentimes, problems do not line up on linear bases. That is, some issues may make it hard to even determine the candidate with the closest position. For example, in the 1980 US presidential election the growing threat of Communism in the Eastern Hemisphere was a salient issue for voters. There were many proposed solutions to this problem; Ronald Reagan endorsed military intimidation through increased spending and innovation (the Reagan Doctrine), Jimmy Carter proposed diplomatic efforts to keep peace, and the independent John Anderson advocated a return to the containment strategy. None of these answers are mutually exclusive, and they cannot be linearly plotted. The voter would instead have to choose the candidate whose opinion represented the closest mix of possible solutions to their own.\n\nA third problem that can complicate issue voting is if there are multiple issues that are equally salient to the voter. A candidate may have a similar position to a given voter on one issue, but may take a considerably different stance on another. An example of this occurred in the 2008 US presidential election. During this election, two issues dominating attention were the economy and the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. Many viewed these issues as equally salient, and had a hard time picking one issue to vote on. These three complexities in issue voting have provided problems in using this tactic to choosing candidates.\n\nA fourth problem is that voters may be unsophisticated and lack the knowledge necessary to vote based on issues. Political scientist Larry Bartels has argued that voters are generally uninformed and that their actual vote choices do not reflect the vote choices that a fully informed voter would make. He concludes that since voters lack full information, they cannot truly be issue voters.\n\nWhile scholars employ many models to study voting habits, there are three primary models used in statistical studies of issue voting: the linear position model, the spatial model and the salience model. Each model takes a different approach to issue voting into account.\n\n"}
{"id": "57247545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57247545", "title": "Katosi Water Works", "text": "Katosi Water Works\n\nKatosi Water Works (KWW), also Katosi Water Treatment Plant is a water purification project in Uganda.\n\nThe water treatment facility is under construction in the lakeside town of Katosi, in Ntenjeru subcounty, Mukono District, in the Buganda Region of Uganda. Katosi is approximately , by road, south of the town of Mukono, where the district headquarters are located. This is about , by road, south-east of Kampala, the capital city of Uganda.\n\nAs far back as 2011, the Uganda government, through the National Water and Sewerage Corporation (NWSC), began to make plans to construct a new water treatment facility at Katosi, to augment the facilities at Ggaba (Ggaba I, II & III), to meet the needs of the rapidly expanding population of Kampala and surrounding districts.\n\n\"GKW Consult GmbH\", in association with \"Alliance Consultants Limited\", were contracted by the NWSC to provide consulting services for the preparation of designs for the new Drinking Water Treatment Plant near Katosi. Tendering and supervision of the construction works, are part of this consulting contract. The design also includes the evacuation pipeline to a storage reservoir on Nsumba Hill, about , to the north-west.\n\nWhen completed, the plant is expected to have capacity of of water daily. The target population is the estimated 4.5 million people by the year 2025 and 7 million by the year 2040, expected to inhabit the city of Kampala, and its surrounding metropolis.\n\nThe water treatment facility is wholly owned by the National Water and Sewerage Corporation, a government parastatal company, responsible for provision of potable water and sewerage services nationwide.\n\nThe construction of the Katosi Water Treatment Plant is part of a master plan called \"Kampala Water Lake Victoria Water and Sanitation Project\", which was developed in 2011. The project involves improving water supply and improve sanitation services to all of the 2 million inhabitants of the city of Kampala at that time.\n\nAs part of that program, which also involved the improvement of the NWSC Ggaba Water Treatment Plant, called for the construction of a new per day water treatment plant in Katosi, Mukono District, east of Kampala.\n\nThe feasibility study was conducted by \"BRL Ingenierie SA\", IGIP and WE Consult. In June 2016, \"GKW Consult GmbH\" and \"Alliance Consultants Limited\" were selected as consulting engineers. Tenders for the construction contract were advertised in the first quarter of 2017, with bid evaluation expected in May 2017. Work on this project is expectd to conclue in 2020.\n\nThe funding of the Kampala Water Lake Victoria Water and Sanitation Project (WATSAN), is as illustrated in the table below:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "163425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=163425", "title": "League of Corinth", "text": "League of Corinth\n\nThe League of Corinth, also referred to as the Hellenic League (from Greek Ἑλληνικός \"Hellenikos\", \"pertaining to Greece and Greeks\"), was a federation of Greek states created by Philip II during the winter of 338 BC/337 BC after the Battle of Chaeronea and succeeded by Alexander the Great at 336 BC, to facilitate the use of military forces in the war of Greece against Persia. The name 'League of Corinth' was invented by modern historians due to the first council of the League being in Corinth. It was the first time in history that most of the Greek states (with the notable exception of Sparta, which would only later join under Alexander's terms) managed to become part of a single political entity. Earlier, in 346 BC, Isocrates urged Philip (\"Philppus\" oration) to unify Greece against the Persians\n\nThe League was governed by the Hegemon (\"strategos autokrator\" in a military context), the Synedrion (council) and the Dikastai (judges). Decrees of the league were issued in Corinth, Athens, Delphi, Olympia and Pydna. The League maintained an army levied from member states in approximate proportion to their size, while Philip established Hellenic garrisons (commanded by phrourarchs, or garrison commanders) in Corinth, Thebes, Pydna and Ambracia.\n\nThe decision for the Destruction of Thebes as transgressor of the above oath was taken by the council of the League of Corinth by a large majority. Beyond the violation of the oath, the council judged that with this way, Thebeans were finally punished after a long time because they betrayed the Greeks during the Persian Wars. The League is mentioned by Arrian (I, 16, 7), after the Battle of Granicus (334 BC). Alexander sent 300 panoplies to the temple of Pallas Athena in Athens, with the following inscription. \n\nAlso, Diodorus Siculus (Βίβλος ΙΖ’ 48.[6]) mentions the Council’s decision in 333 BC, after the Battle of Issus, to send ambassadors to Alexander that will bring the \"Excellence of Greece\" (Golden Wreath). During 331 BC after the Battle of Megalopolis, Sparta appealed to Alexander for terms, to which he agreed on condition that the Lacedaemonians now joined the League of Corinth. During the Asiatic campaign, Antipater was appointed deputy hegemon of the Leaguewhile Alexander personally recommended Athenians to turn their attention to things, in case something happens to him, Athens would take over the power in Greece.\n\nThe League was dissolved after the Lamian War (322 BC). During 302 BC Antigonus I Monophthalmus and his son Demetrius Poliorcetes tried to revive the federation against Cassander. Antigonus III Doson (king of Macedon from 229 BC to 221 BC) also revived the League against Sparta during 224 BC.\n\n"}
{"id": "31162718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31162718", "title": "List of Vice Presidents of the Presidential Council of Hungary", "text": "List of Vice Presidents of the Presidential Council of Hungary\n\nVice Presidents of the Presidential Council of Hungary.\n\nTwo Vice Presidents served simultaneously. They were deputy heads of state.\n\nBelow is a list of office-holders 1949 - 1989:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2534254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2534254", "title": "List of fascist movements by country U–Z", "text": "List of fascist movements by country U–Z\n\nA list of political parties, organizations, and movements adhering to various forms of fascist ideology, part of the list of fascist movements by country.\n\nOverview A-F G-M N-T U-Z\n\nOverview A-F G-M N-T U-Z\n"}
{"id": "53506272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53506272", "title": "Mario Alvarez Ledesma", "text": "Mario Alvarez Ledesma\n\nMario Ignacio Álvarez Ledesma is a Mexican lawyer, politician, and professor, author of law and human rights books and articles. He has been First Visitor General of the National Human Rights Commission (CNDH) (1997-1998) has served as Executive Director of the Human Rights National Center of the National Human Rights Commission (CNDH). Álvarez has given a chair in Universidad de Anáhuac, Universidad Latinoamericana, Instituto Tecnológico Autónomo de México, the Law School unit at the National Autonomous University of Mexico, Universidad de Nápoles Federico II, Istituto Italiano per gli Studi Filosofici and the Law School of Universidad de Perugia. Member of the “Claustro de Doctores” at the National Autonomous University of Mexico\n\nMario Álvarez Ledesma had his academic formation in Mexico and Spain. He earned his bachelor's degree in the Anahuac University and his master's degree in the Institutes of Comparative Law and Human Rights at Complutense University of Madrid, Spain. His doctorate in law is from the National Autonomous University of Mexico. In the 1980´s, he was a student of Gregorio Peces-Barba, who was the head of a group of intellectuals at the Human Rights Institute of the Complutense University of Madrid.\n\nMario Ignacio Álvarez Ledesma is a Mexican lawyer and politician, and the author of many books related to the introduction in the study of Law and Human Rights. He is a fluent speaker of Spanish, English, and Italian.\n\nHe focuses his attention on theory of law, the theory of justice and the human rights because one of his goals is to create a culture that values human rights. The legal education isan important issue in Mexico. \"I´ve been going through those areas of knowledge, mainly because of the social problems I have lived and the necessity of renewing literature and the ways to teach, the ways lawyers are taught, according to the necessities, intellectual innovations and the time we are living on\", according to Álvarez.\n\nHe has been First Visitor General of the National Human Rights Commission (CNDH) (1997-1998). His work as Executive Director of the Human Rights National Center of the National Human Rights Commission (CNDH) (1999-2000), General Director of the Human Right Protections in the Attorney General of Mexico (2001-2003), and Human Rights Assistant Attorney, Care for Victims and Community Services(2003-2006) in the Attorney General of Mexico.\n\nHe has been a professor in the law school of the Anahuac University, ITAM (Instituto Tecnológico Autónomo de México), and in the National Autonomous University of Mexico. He is the co-founder of Anahuac University law school's journal. In 1993, he founded the law department in the UDLA (Universidad de la Américas, A.C.), and was the first to propose the creation of an academic program that combined subjects of the legal system of Mexico, USA, and Canada. He has taught courses and seminars in Mexico and abroad and has published various articles in legal magazines, specialized in topics related to Theory of Justice and human rights. Since January 2008, he is the director of the Department of Legal and Social Sciences at Tec de Monterrey Campus Ciudad de México.\n\nIn October 2006, the Universidad Autónoma de Baja California gave him the Honoris Causa Degree and since 2008, he is National Investigator. Álvarez held a chair in Universidad de Anáhuac, Universidad Latinoamericana, Instituto Tecnológico Autónomo de México, Unit of postgraduate studies in the Law School of the National Autonomous University of Mexico, Universidad de Nápoles Federico II, Istituto Italiano \"per gli Studi Filosofici\" and the Law School of Universidad de Perugia. He earned ten years of work at the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM), in February 2009, He is ranked as a level I researcher with the National System of Researchers, January 2009. He was honored with an \"Honoris Causa\" Doctor Degree, Autonomous University of Baja California, August 2006. Currently, he is a member of the “Claustro de Doctores” at the National Autonomous University of Mexico.\n\nAs part of the reviews made by the new administration of the Attorney General of México, financial irregularities were detected in Álvarez´s expenses as a First Visitor General of human rights. according to official sources, they detected that he did not declare some of the expenses he did. Álvarez has an expenditure of around 300 thousand pesos as personal expenses used in November 2006 in Baja California, México.\n\n"}
{"id": "46295140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46295140", "title": "Marš mira", "text": "Marš mira\n\nThe March of Peace () is an annual peace walk in Bosnia and Herzegovina organized in memory of the victims of the 1995 Srebrenica genocide. The march gathers thousands of Bosnians and foreigners each year. The first march was held in 2005, to mark the tenth anniversary of the genocide. The campaign lasts three days, culminating in the participants' arrival to the village Potočari, where the Srebrenica Genocide Memorial-Cemetery is located. The participants arrive a day prior for the mass funeral that occurs for those victims who have been found from the previous year. The search for bodies of the victims is ongoing every year.\n\nThe event, which has been organized since 2005, marks the killing of Bosniaks who survived after the fall of Srebrenica in July 1995 and tried to reach territory controlled by the Army of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The \"Peace March\" became an international event, and a large number of people from around the world joined the March. In 2012, there were nearly 8,000 participants.\n\nThe march usually begins in the village Nezuk by Sapna on or around 8 July.\n\nIn addition to the pedestrian campaigns, support also comes from participants who engaged in Cycling Marathons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2842933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2842933", "title": "May 1940 War Cabinet Crisis", "text": "May 1940 War Cabinet Crisis\n\nThe May 1940 War Cabinet Crisis was a confrontation between Winston Churchill, newly appointed as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, and Edward Wood, the Viscount Halifax and Foreign Secretary, which took place between 25 and 28 May. Halifax believed that in view of the imminent Fall of France and the encirclement of British forces at Dunkirk, the U.K. should explore the possibility of a negotiated peace settlement with Adolf Hitler, with the still-neutral Italian leader Benito Mussolini brokering the agreement. After apparently considering ending the war on 26 May, Churchill outmanoeuvred Halifax by calling a meeting of his 25-member Outer Cabinet two days later, to whom he delivered a passionate speech, saying \"If this long island story of ours is to end at last, let it end only when each one of us lies choking in his own blood upon the ground\", convincing all present that Britain must fight on against Hitler whatever the cost.\n\nOn 8 May, in a vote following the Norway Debate on the deteriorating UK military situation, Neville Chamberlain's government survived what amounted to a motion of no confidence. The government, with a majority in the House of 213, won the vote with a majority of only 81: 33 Conservatives and 5 of their governing allies voted with the opposition, and many other Conservatives abstained. Churchill, who had been appointed First Lord of the Admiralty in September 1939, mounted a strong defence of Chamberlain and his Government in the debate, ending his closing speech with these words:\n\nWith the Prime Minister being strongly criticised on both sides of the House and there being a strong desire for national unity, the vote was catastrophic.\n\nAt a meeting the next day, also attended by Halifax and Churchill, Chamberlain asked the leader and the deputy leader of the Opposition Labour Party, Clement Attlee and Arthur Greenwood, if they would serve in a coalition. They replied that it might be possible but only with a different Prime Minister and that before they could give an official answer, they would need the approval of Labour's National Executive Committee, then in Bournemouth preparing for the annual conference which was to start on the Monday. They were asked to telephone with the result of the consultation by the following afternoon.\n\nChurchill's own account of these events, written six years later, is misleading. It describes the events of 9 May as taking place the following day, and the description of Chamberlain attempting to persuade him to agree tacitly to Halifax's appointment as Prime Minister does not quite tally with Halifax's having expressed his reluctance to do so to Chamberlain at a meeting between the two men on the morning of 9 May.\n\nThe Labour leaders telephoned at 5 pm on 10 May to report that the party would take part in a coalition government but not under Chamberlain's leadership. Accordingly, Chamberlain went to Buckingham Palace to tender his resignation, recommending King George VI to ask Churchill to form a government.\n\nChurchill was polite about Italy, then still neutral, on 16 May by saying that Britain was \"not an enemy of Italy or of Mussolini\".\n\nAn intelligence memo, undated but probably 25 May, warned the War Cabinet about the danger of submarine and air attack. Halifax formulated an appeal to U.S. President Franklin D. Roosevelt, which stated that Britain \"could not accept\" terms that jeopardised the independence of the United Kingdom. He hoped that the United States would enter the war to prevent the conquest of Britain or France.\n\nHalifax met Bastianini later that afternoon. He tried to persuade Italy to stay out of the war although the discussion soon moved from the question of Italian neutrality to that of Italian mediation between the Allies and Germany. He stated that \"matters which cause anxiety to Italy must certainly be discussed as part of a general European settlement\". That would have included Suez, Gibraltar, Malta, Tunis, Dijbouti, Somaliland, Corfu or perhaps even Kenya or Uganda. Halifax sent an account of this to the British Ambassador in Rome, Percy Loraine.\n\nBastianini said that Mussolini's goal was to negotiate a settlement \"that would not merely be an armistice, but would protect European peace for the century\". Halifax made his willingness clear, but did not commit himself to any course of action: \"The purpose of His Majesty's government was the same, and they would never be unwilling to consider any proposal made with authority that gave promise of establishment of a secure and peaceful Europe\". Gladwyn Jebb, Private Secretary to Alexander Cadogan, Permanent Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, later learned that the interview had gone wrong, as Halifax had made no specific promises.\n\nThe following morning (Sunday 26 May), Halifax gave his report of this conversation to the War Cabinet, first telling the War Cabinet that in his opinion they \"had to face the fact that it was not so much now a question of imposing a complete defeat upon Germany but of safeguarding the independence of our own Empire and if possible that of France\".\n\nThe War Cabinet resumed its deliberations later that day at 2 pm. Churchill began by describing his meeting with Reynaud, who had stated that the French military situation was hopeless but that he had no intentions of signing a separate peace treaty with Germany; he, however, might be forced to resign and believed that there were others in the French government who would sign such a treaty. Churchill claimed to have told Reynaud that Britain was not prepared \"to give in on any account. We would rather go down fighting than be enslaved to Germany\". However, Churchill told Reynaud that \"we (emphasis added) try to find some formula on which Mussolini would be approached\".\n\nChurchill replied, \"I would be grateful to get out of our present difficulties on such terms, provided we retained the essentials and the elements of our vital strength, even at the cost of some territory\". He said that \"if we could get out of this jam by giving up Malta and Gibraltar and some African colonies he would jump at it. But the only safe way was to convince Hitler that he couldn't beat us\".\n\nHalifax said that such terms \"would be refused\" but added that he did not think such terms would be likely. Churchill's response was that \"Herr Hitler thought that he had the whip hand. The only thing to do was to show him that he could not conquer this country. If, on M. Reynaud's showing, France could not continue, we must part company\". At the behest of the War Cabinet, Halifax drew up a memorandum on \"Suggested Approaches to Italy\".\n\nThe plan to seek a compromise peace was euphemistically referred to as the \"Reynaud Plan\". \nChamberlain now spoke out in defence of Halifax's peace proposal: \"While [it is] agreed that the proposed approach would not serve any useful purpose, [I think] that we ought to go a little further with it, in order to keep the French in a good temper ... our reply should not be a complete refusal.\" He was against it \"at the present time\" but thought the situation might change \"even in a week\".\n\nSinclair, Attlee and Greenwood were against the plan.\n\nHalifax now was incensed, going on the offensive and saying to the War Cabinet that he saw:\nAt Cabinet on 27 May, Churchill was furious at US hints, delivered via the British Ambassador Philip Kerr, that Britain should hand over bases in return for US support (although later in the year, Churchill would do precisely that). Churchill's telegram to the Dominions on 27 May left open the possibility of peace talks later in the year.\n\nChurchill then adjourned the War Cabinet until 7 pm so he could attend a previously scheduled meeting with his 25-member Outer Cabinet. \"I had not seen many of my colleagues outside the War Cabinet, except individually, since the formation of the Government\", said Churchill in his memoirs. The only account of what Churchill said at this critical meeting comes from Hugh Dalton, a member of the Labour Party and the newly appointed Minister of Economic Warfare.\nChurchill began his remarks by emphasising the seriousness of the military situation, and went on to say:\nChurchill would later write of the response he received at the conclusion of his remarks:\nChurchill received a standing applause from the Outer Cabinet and thus ensured that the United Kingdom would fight on. When the War Cabinet reconvened at 7 pm, Churchill's position was secure. He told the War Cabinet of his earlier meeting, telling them that the Outer Cabinet \"had expressed the greatest satisfaction when [I] had told them that there was no chance of our giving up the struggle. [I] did not remember having ever before heard a gathering of persons occupying high places in political life express themselves so emphatically\".\n\nChurchill sent a telegram to Reynaud stating that there would be no approach to Mussolini \"at that time\" but still leaving the possibility open.\n\nMussolini had rejected an approach by Roosevelt along the lines suggested by Britain and France. On 28 May, it was learned that Italy planned to enter the war on Germany's side, which happened on 10 June.\n\nHalifax later helped to persuade Churchill not to send any more aircraft to France. Halifax poured cold water on the Dominions' desire to be receptive to German peace feelers. On 19 July 1940 Hitler in a speech put out peace feelers to Britain. However, on 22 July Halifax delivered a speech rejecting the offer. Halifax had little further interest in tentative German peace feelers throughout the year. In 1942 Hitler told Bormann of how Halifax had \"declined the hand of peace\".\n\nHowever, Halifax later damaged his own reputation by lying to the official historian, claiming the talks had just been intended to keep Italy out of the war.\n\n"}
{"id": "42437270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42437270", "title": "Minimum Wage Fairness Act", "text": "Minimum Wage Fairness Act\n\nThe Minimum Wage Fairness Act () is a bill that would amend the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (FLSA) to increase the federal minimum wage for employees to $10.10 per hour over the course of a two-year period. The bill was strongly supported by President Barack Obama and many of the Democratic Senators, but strongly opposed by Republicans in the Senate and House.\n\nThe bill was introduced into the United States Senate during the 113th United States Congress.\n\nIn the United States workers generally must be paid no less than the statutory minimum wage. As of July 2009, the federal government mandates a nationwide minimum wage level of $7.25 per hour, while some states and municipalities have set minimum wage levels higher than the federal level, with the highest state minimum wage being $9.47 per hour in Washington as of January 1, 2015. Among those paid by the hour in 2013, 1.5 million were reported as earning exactly the prevailing federal minimum wage. About 1.8 million were reported as earning wages below the minimum. Together, these 3.3 million workers with wages at or below the minimum represent, respectively: 1.0% of the population, 1.6% of the labor force, 2.5% of all workers, and 4.3% of hourly workers. Many states already have a state minimum wage higher than the existing federal minimum wage.\n\nThe major economic schools of thought - Classical economics, Keynesian economics, and the Austrian School - disagree about the importance and the effects of the minimum wage. According to a paper written in 2000 by Fuller and Geide-Stevenson, 73.5% (27.9% of which agreed with provisos) of American economists agreed that a minimum wage increases unemployment among unskilled and young workers, while 26.5% disagreed with this statement. Some economic research has shown that restaurant prices rise in response to minimum wage increases. Overall, there is no consensus between economists about the effects of minimum wages on youth employment, although empirical evidence suggests that this group is most vulnerable to high minimum wages. However, new evidence for workers that were bound by the minimum wage suggests a distinct negative impact on employment and income growth. \n\n\"This summary is based largely on the summary provided by the Congressional Research Service, a public domain source.\"\n\nThe Minimum Wage Fairness Act would amend the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (FLSA) to increase the federal minimum wage for employees to: (1) $8.20 an hour beginning on the first day of the sixth month after the enactment of this Act, (2) $9.15 an hour beginning one year after the date of such initial increase, (3) $10.10 an hour beginning two years after such date, and (4) the amount determined by the United States Secretary of Labor (based on increases in the Consumer Price Index) beginning three years after such date and annually thereafter.\n\nThe bill would increase the federal minimum wage for tipped employees to $3.00 an hour for one year beginning on the first day of the sixth month after the enactment of this Act. The bill would provide a formula for subsequent annual adjustments of the minimum wage for tipped employees until it equals 70% of the wage in effect under FLSA for other employees.\n\nThe bill would direct the Secretary of Labor, 60 days before any increase in the minimum wage, to publish it in the Federal Register and on the United States Department of Labor's website.\n\nThe bill would amend the Internal Revenue Code to extend through taxable years beginning before 2017: (1) the increase to $500,000 of the expensing allowance for business assets, including computer software; and (2) the treatment of qualified real property (i.e., leasehold improvement property, restaurant property, and retail improvement property) as depreciable business property.\n\n\"This summary is based largely on the summary provided by the Congressional Budget Office, as introduced in the Senate on November 19, 2013. This is a public domain source.\"\n\nS. 1737 would amend the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) to increase the federal minimum wage in three steps from $7.25 per hour to $10.10 per hour, and to adjust the wage annually thereafter to account for inflation. In addition, the bill would increase the federal minimum cash wage for workers who receive tips by gradually raising that wage until it equals 70 percent of the federal minimum wage for other workers. Finally, S. 1737 would amend the Internal Revenue Code to extend through 2016 an increased limitation on the amount of investment that firms can immediately deduct from their taxable income—a limitation that mostly affects small- to medium-sized businesses.\n\nThe Minimum Wage Fairness Act was introduced into the United States Senate on November 19, 2013 by Sen. Tom Harkin (D, IA). On April 8, 2014, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid announced that the Senate would not vote on the bill until three weeks later after a two-week April recess.\n\nThe delay of the Senate vote on the bill was attributed to Reid's inability to get all members of the Democratic party in the Senate to agree to vote in favor of the bill. Senator Mark Pryor (D-AR) opposed the bill. Pryor is up for election in 2014 and is considered \"the Senate's most vulnerable incumbent.\" Senator Tom Carper (D-DE) preferred legislation that would have a greater chance of becoming law, such as an increase to only $9 an hour. Senator Mark Warner (D-VA) expressed a willingness to negotiate with Republicans about some of the provisions of the bill, such as the timeline for the phase-in. Warner said that any increase needs to be done \"in a responsible way.\"\n\nSenator Mary Landrieu (D-LA) wanted additional debate on the timeline and the raise for tipped workers. Landrieu said that \"I do not believe that $10.10 an hour is too high to aspire to, but how quickly we get there and what increments, the tipped wage, how that should be handled, who should get paid the tipped wage, and who shouldn't. There are a lot of questions about that, and some of those discussions are going on.\"\n\nPresident Barack Obama strongly supported increasing the minimum wage, giving speeches about it urging Congress to take action. Obama argued that \"if you pay people well, there's more money in everybody's pockets, and everybody does better.\"\n\nThe nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office said in a report that an \"estimate half a million jobs would be lost if lawmakers passed the president's proposal\" to increase the minimum wage to $10.10 an hour. Spokesman Brendan Buck for Speaker of the House John Boehner said in reaction that \"the president's plan would increase costs for consumers and eliminate jobs for those who need them the most\" so the House would \"continue focusing on our plan to protect workers' hours and create jobs, not the president's plan to destroy them.\"\n\nThe National Retail Federation (NRF) opposed the bill, saying that \"raising the standard of living for low-skill, low-wage workers is a valid goal,\" but that \"there is clear evidence that mandate wage hikes undermine the job prospects for less skilled and part-time workers.\" The trade group also argued that this was the \"least opportune moment\" to increase the minimum wage because employers were still dealing the fallout of changes they needed to make because of the Affordable Care Act (\"Obamacare\").\n\nSenate Republican Susan Collins (R-ME) tried to negotiate a compromise that centrist Republicans could agree to, but was unable to do so. Several Republicans, such as Senators Dean Heller (R-NV) and Rob Portman (R-OH), noted that their states already have minimum wages higher than the federally-mandated level and thought that the minimum wage should be left up to the states. Heller said \"I think there is a difference between North and South, East and West on what those minimum wages ought to be.\" Senator Mark Kirk (R-IL) said he would not vote for the bill or a compromise. Collins' tried to argue that the Congressional Budget Office report predicting 500,000 jobs lost if the minimum wage was increased to $10.10 also said that an increase to $9.00 would only lead to 100,000 jobs lost, but the argument did not seem to persuade her fellow centrists. Collins said \"I'm confident that the votes are not there to pass a minimum wage increase up to $10.10 therefore it seems to me to make sense for senators on both sides of the aisle to get together and see if we can come up with a package that would help low-income families with causing the kind of job loss that the Congressional Budget Office has warned against.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14192819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14192819", "title": "Ministry of Agriculture of the People's Republic of China", "text": "Ministry of Agriculture of the People's Republic of China\n\nThe Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) was an executive state agency within the government of the People's Republic of China. Its responsibilities were assumed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs on March 19, 2018. Areas of responsibility included agriculture and environmental issues relating to agriculture, fishery, consumer affairs, animal husbandry, horticulture, animal welfare, foodstuffs, hunting and game management as well as higher education and research in the field of agricultural sciences.\n\nThe ministry is headquartered in Beijing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15654658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15654658", "title": "National Radical Camp", "text": "National Radical Camp\n\nThe National Radical Camp () is a far-right movement in Poland. It has often been described as fascist. As of 2012 it is registered as a common-interest association.\n\nThe ONR considers itself an ideological descendant of the 1930s-era National Radical Camp, a fascist and antisemitic political movement which existed in the pre-World War II Second Polish Republic, an illegal Polish Third Positionist, anti-communist, and nationalist political party formed on 14 April 1934 mostly by the youth radicals who left the National Party of the National Democracy movement.\n\nThe Falanga National Radical Camp (), RNR-Falanga or ONR-Falanga colloquially, was a minor Polish third position political grouping of the 1930s, as was National Radical Camp ABC () or ONR-ABC for short following the split of the original party in 1934. \"Falanga\" is Polish for \"phalanx\", \"ABC\" refers to a newspaper printed by the organisation at the time.\n\nThe party was influenced by the ideas of Italian Fascism. It rejected parliamentary democracy and called for the construction of a \"national state,\" based on the principles of hierarchy, one-person leadership, and elimination of national minorities from public life. \n\nDominated by youth, National Radical Camp was a \"more radical, nazified\" outgrowth of the National-Democratic Party (Poland)National-Democratic Party, an ultranationalist movement that had arose in the 1920. The emergence of the National Radical Camp was part of broader movement of the Polish right toward radicalization and fascism in the 1930s. Virulently antisemitic and eliminationist, ONR's members were responsible for an increase in anti-semitic violence after 1935.\n\nThe party was created on the insistence of former members of the Camp of Great Poland (\"Obóz Wielkiej Polski\"), most notably Jan Mosdorf, Tadeusz Gluziński and Henryk Rossman. It supported \"class solidarity,\" nationalization of foreign and Jewish-owned companies and introduction of anti-semitic laws. \n\nThe ONR was popular mostly among the students and other groups of urban youth. ONR openly encouraged anti-Jewish pogroms, and became the main force in the organization of attacks against Jews. It organized fighting squads, attacked Jews and leftist politicians, destroyed Jewish property, and provoked clashes with the police. Because of its involvement in boycott of Jewish-owned stores, as well as numerous attacks on left-wing worker demonstrations, the ONR was outlawed after three months of existence, in July 1934. Several leaders were interned in the Bereza Kartuska Detention Camp, where the organization split into two separate factions: the ONR-Falanga (\"Ruch Narodowo-Radykalny\") led by Bolesław Piasecki, and the ONR-ABC (\"Obóz Narodowo-Radykalny\") formed around the \"ABC\" journal and led by Henryk Rossman. Both organizations were officially illegal.\n\nDuring World War II, both organizations created underground resistance organizations: ONR-ABC was transformed into Grupa Szańca (\"Rampart Group\"), whose military arm became the Związek Jaszczurczy (\"Lizard Union\"), while the ONR-Falanga created the Konfederacja Narodu (\"Confederation of the Nation\"). They were not supportive of the mainstream Polish Underground State related to the Polish government in exile. During the German occupation of Poland, many of the former ONR activists belonged to National Armed Forces resistance groups. After World War II, the forced exile of many ONR members was made permanent by the newly created Polish People's Republic, which branded them enemies of the state.\n\nThe RNR-Falanga was formed in the spring of 1935 following a split by members of the National Radical Camp held in Detention Camp Bereza Kartuska. Adopting the name of \"Oboz Narodowo-Radykalny\" (National Radical Camp), it soon became known as \"Falanga\" after the title of its journal (the rival group would also soon be named after its own journal, thus becoming known as National Radical Camp-ABC).\n\nThe Falanga was led by Bolesław Piasecki and advocated a 'Catholic totalitarianism' inspired by Spanish Falangism. However, although clearly derived from Falangism, it has been argued that their Catholicism was even more central than that of the Spanish group and indeed their pronouncement that 'God is the highest form of man' recalled the religious fanaticism of Corneliu Zelea Codreanu. The group is widely considered to have been a fascist movement. Harshly critical of capitalism and supportive of removing citizenship rights from Poland's Jews it presented itself as the vanguard of the opposition to Józef Piłsudski.\n\nLargely based in university campuses, the Falanga followed a policy of anti-Semitism and although it had few members, from its power bases in schools it attempted to launch attacks on Jewish students and businesses. Left-wing activists were also as part of this violent activity.\n\nThe group soon came under scrutiny from the Polish government. Indeed, unlike similar movements in other European countries who regularly held public rallies, the ONR-Falanga held only two such gatherings, in 1934 and 1937, both of which were quickly broken up by the police.\n\nFor a time the movement became associated with the Camp of National Unity (, \"OZN\") as Colonel Adam Koc, impressed by the organisation of the ONR-Falanga, placed Piasecki in charge of the OZN youth group. Koc called for the creation of a one-party state and hoped to use the youth movement to ensure this although his pronouncements upset many pro-government moderates. As such, Koc was removed from the leadership of the OZN in 1938 and replaced by General Stanisław Skwarczyński who quickly severed any ties to the RNR-Falanga.\n\nAs a Polish nationalist movement the RNR-Falanga opposed the German occupation of Poland after the 1939 invasion, and thus was quickly subsumed by the Konfederacja Narodu, a group within the Polish resistance that retained certain far right views.\n\nHowever, following the establishment of a communist puppet regime in 1945, Piasecki was allowed to lead the PAX Association (), a supposedly Catholic organisation that was in fact a front group of the NKVD which aimed to promote the new communist regime to Poland's Catholics whilst turning them away from the Vatican.\n\nThe \"ONR-ABC\" was the second splinter group besides \"Falanga\" founded by Henryk Rossman.\n\nThe National Radical Camp has often been described as fascist.\n\nThe party flag of the organization was included in the police handbook as an explicitly racist symbol. The Interior Ministry subsequently pulled the book from circulation after a complaint from MP Adam Andruszkiewicz.\n\nONR attracted publicity in 2005, 2007, 2008 and 2009 for unauthorized marches during the anniversary of the anti-Jewish riot in Myślenice in 1936. In 2005 the group had a couple of hundred members.\n\nAn illegal rally held on June 30, 2007 resulted in a court case, in which the ONR leader, Wojciech Mazurkiewicz, was acquitted only because the magistrate warning was issued too late, according to the presiding judge.<ref name=\"gazeta.pl/wyrok\"></ref> The 2008 rally led by the same ONR leader was taped by police with the intention of sharing the video with the local prosecutors office according to Lesser Poland Police.\n\nONR members at a 2008 rally in Myślenice made a Roman salute before disbanding. When questioned by reporters at the scene, the ONR leader claimed it is different from the Nazi salute.\n\nThe association has also been known as initiators of marches during the National Independence Day of Poland. One of them (in Warsaw), as a co-initiative of several different nationalist movements in 2010, evolved in 2012 into one of the biggest events during the day, which now attracts a more diverse community. Since 2012 it has been organized by a registered association, which ONR is still part of.\n\nOn 11 November 2017, 60,000 people marched in an Independence Day celebration procession co-organized by the ONR People from group \"Black Block\", which consisted of associations \"Niklot\" and \"Szturmowcy\", carried banners that read \"White Europe\", \"Europe Will Be White\" and \"Clean Blood, Sober mind - sXe\". The slogan of the march was \"We want God\", which comes from an old Polish song and a phrase quoted by US President Donald Trump during his visit to Poland earlier in the year. There were also others who were chanting \"Death to enemies of the homeland\" and \"Catholic Poland, not secular\". American alt-right activist Richard Spencer planned to speak at the march, but was banned from doing so after the Polish Minister of Foreign Affairs Witold Waszczykowski said that he 'should not appear publicly' in Poland as he 'defames the Holocaust', with the Ministry announcing in a later statement that Spencer's views were 'in conflict with the legal order of Poland'.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3376617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3376617", "title": "National Security Online Resource Center", "text": "National Security Online Resource Center\n\nThe National Security Online Resource Center (NSORC) is an initiative of the Collegiate Network and private benefactors. The mission of the project is to provide college journalists with a solid grounding in national security issues. Besides providing recent headlines and opinions, book and magazine reviews, student articles, and downloadable online lectures, NSORC offers advice about issues unique to college journalists.\n\nAdvice offered by college students on the issues unique to college journalists covering issues of national security.\n\nThe front page of NSORC shows the most recent additions to each feature, but the website is also divided by topic.\n\nTopics are divided into the three major categories of threat facing the national security of the United States today:\nNSORC regularly focuses on a feature topic in each of these three categories.\n\nNSORC features real articles from college newspapers and magazines. Articles can be submitted through the NSORC website.\n\nReviews are written primarily by NSORC staff, but outside reviews can be submitted through the NSORC website.\n\nView streaming video of speeches by experts on issues of national security.\n\nNews articles, updated daily.\n\nRead what the pundits, scholars, and experts think about the popular issues of the day.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1229735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1229735", "title": "Nikolai Alexandrovich Morozov", "text": "Nikolai Alexandrovich Morozov\n\nNikolai Alexandrovich Morozov (Никола́й Алекса́ндрович Моро́зов; 7 July 1854, Borok – 30 July 1946) was a Russian revolutionary who spent about 25 years in prison before turning his attention to various fields of science.\n\nThe son of a landowner by a serf woman, Morozov was born in the village of Borok in the Yaroslavl Oblast of Russia. He early became interested in politics and was expelled from secondary school when he was accused of subversive activity. (His distribution of a scientific magazine was considered subversive because Russian schools did not teach science.) He joined the Circle of Tchaikovsky before departing for Geneva in 1874.\n\nBy 1878, Morozov was a member of \"Zemlya i volya\" or \"Land and Liberty\" where he co-edited their mouthpiece, \"Land and Liberty\", (with Sergei Kravchinsky). When the \"Land and Liberty\" group faced an internal crisis over tactics and thus split into two groups in August 1879, Morozov rejected the continued use of propaganda to bring about social change and, instead, joined the more adventurous of the two factions, and became a leader of this group, \"Narodnaya Volya\", or People's Will.\n\nIn 1880 Olga Liubatovich and Morozov left \"Narodnaya Volya\" and went to live in Geneva and London, where he was introduced to Karl Marx. While in exile Morozov wrote \"The Terrorist Struggle\", a pamphlet that explained his views how to achieve a democratic society in Russia. He advocated large numbers of small independent terrorist groups and argued that this approach would make it difficult for the police to apprehend the terrorists. It would also help to prevent a small group of leaders gaining power, forming dictatorships after the overthrow of the Tsar.\n\nMorozov returned to Russia in order to distribute \"The Terrorist Struggle\". This led to his arrest soon after arriving. He was then imprisoned in Suwałki. Liubatovich only just having gone through child birth decided to attempt to rescue Morozov, though her plan did not go well, ending in her arrest leading to Liubatovich being sent to Siberia in November, 1882.\n\nBetween 1882–1905 Morozov was imprisoned in Peter and Paul fortress and in Shlisselburg for his political activities. At that period he wrote political verse and began intense studies in physics, chemistry, astronomy and history. After being released in 1906, he started to teach chemistry and astronomy at the university of St. Petersburg. In 1907 he was elected into the Duma, but as a former prisoner he was not allowed to take the office. He became a member of many associations for science, including the Russian Aero-club. For the publication of his book \"Songs of the Stars\" in 1910, he became imprisoned for another year.\n\nMany of his ideas were unorthodox and daring. He conjectured that atoms have complicated level structure and may be transformed. In his treatise on the periodic table, Morozov predicted the discovery of inert elements. \n\nIn 1907 Morozow published \"The Revelation in Storm and Thunder\" where he produced evidence for his hypotheses\n\nAfter the October Revolution, Morozov took little interest in politics and continued to run the P. S. Lesgaft Institute of Natural Sciences in Petrograd (Leningrad) until his death at the age of 92. Based on the astronomical records (such as the \"Almagest\") he speculated that much of human history has been falsified. His theories about the chronology of the Middle East and Israel before the first century BC later attracted the attention of Anatoly Fomenko, who based his own New Chronology upon them. \n\nIn his declining years, Morozov established a laboratory in his native Borok, north of Uglich, to monitor and study \"inland waters\". In 1932 he was named an Honorary Member of the Soviet Academy of Sciences. His memorial house in Borok is open to the public. Morozov's grave is close by. The asteroid 1210 Morosovia is named in his honour.\n\n"}
{"id": "17751040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17751040", "title": "Nir Oz", "text": "Nir Oz\n\nNir Oz (, \"lit.\" Meadow of Strength) is a kibbutz in southern Israel. It is located in the northwestern Negev desert between Magen and Nirim, and covers 20,000 dunams. Nir Oz is under the jurisdiction of Eshkol Regional Council. In it had a population of .\n\nFounded on 1 October 1955, as a Nahal settlement, it was recognized as a kibbutz two months later.\n\nDue to its proximity to Gaza, Nir Oz farmers often come under Palestinian sniper fire. In 2008, the Israel Defense Forces asked the kibbutz to harvest its potatoes at night to lower the risk of attack. On 5 June 2008, a mortar bomb fired from the Gaza Strip hit the Nirlat paint factory on the kibbutz, killing an employee and wounding four others. Hamas claimed responsibility for the attack.\n\nIn addition to agriculture, Nir Oz has a factory for silicon sealant products and an engineering firm. In recent years, Nir Oz has become a major grower of asparagus for export.\n\nIn 1960, Nir Oz introduced a long-term water saving gardening project on of kibbutz land. Some 750 drought-resistant plants have been tested. The garden, designed by landscape architect Hayyim Kahanovich, uses only 50% of the water used in the center and north of the country. The project is conducted in cooperation with Ben Gurion University of the Negev and serves as a study and observation site for researchers, gardeners, teachers and students from all over the country.\n\n"}
{"id": "22052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22052", "title": "Non-disclosure agreement", "text": "Non-disclosure agreement\n\nA non-disclosure agreement (NDA), also known as a confidentiality agreement (CA), confidential disclosure agreement (CDA), proprietary information agreement (PIA) or secrecy agreement (SA), is a legal contract between at least two parties that outlines confidential material, knowledge, or information that the parties wish to share with one another for certain purposes, but wish to restrict access to or by third parties. The most common forms of these are in doctor–patient confidentiality (physician–patient privilege), attorney–client privilege, priest–penitent privilege, and bank–client confidentiality agreements. \n\nIt is a contract through which the parties agree not to disclose information covered by the agreement. An NDA creates a confidential relationship between the parties to protect any type of confidential and proprietary information or trade secrets. As such, an NDA protects non-public business information. Like all contracts, they cannot be enforced if the contracted activities are felonies. NDAs are commonly signed when two companies, individuals, or other entities (such as partnerships, societies, etc.) are considering doing business and need to understand the processes used in each other's business for the purpose of evaluating the potential business relationship. NDAs can be \"mutual\", meaning both parties are restricted in their use of the materials provided, or they can restrict the use of material by a single party. It is also possible for an employee to sign an NDA or NDA-like agreement with an employer. In fact, some employment agreements will include a clause restricting employees' use and dissemination of company-owned confidential information. In legal disputes resolved by settlement, the parties often sign a confidentiality agreement relating to the terms of the settlement. \n\nA non-disclosure agreement (NDA) may be classified as unilateral, bilateral, or multilateral:\n\nA unilateral NDA (sometimes referred to as a one-way NDA) involves two parties where only one party (i.e., the disclosing party) anticipates disclosing certain information to the other party (i.e., the receiving party) and requires that the information be protected from further disclosure for some reason (e.g., maintaining the secrecy necessary to satisfy patent laws or legal protection for trade secrets, limiting disclosure of information prior to issuing a press release for a major announcement, or simply ensuring that a receiving party does not use or disclose information without compensating the disclosing party).\n\nA bilateral NDA (sometimes referred to as a mutual NDA or a two-way NDA) involves two parties where both parties anticipate disclosing information to one another that each intends to protect from further disclosure. This type of NDA is common when businesses are considering some kind of joint venture or merger.\n\nWhen presented with a unilateral NDA, some parties may insist upon a bilateral NDA, even though they anticipate that only one of the parties will disclose information under the NDA. This approach is intended to incentivize the drafter to make the provisions in the NDA more \"fair and balanced\" by introducing the possibility that a receiving party could later become a disclosing party or vice versa, which is not an entirely uncommon occurrence.\n\nA multilateral NDA involves three or more parties where at least one of the parties anticipates disclosing information to the other parties and requires that the information be protected from further disclosure. This type of NDA eliminates the need for separate unilateral or bilateral NDAs between only two parties. E.g., a single multiparty NDA entered into by three parties who each intend to disclose information to the other two parties could be used in place of three separate bilateral NDAs between the first and second parties, second and third parties, and third and first parties.\n\nA multilateral NDA can be advantageous because the parties involved review, execute, and implement just one agreement. However, this advantage can be offset by more complex negotiations that may be required for the parties involved to reach a unanimous consensus on a multilateral agreement.\n\nA non-disclosure agreement can protect any type of information that is not generally known. However, nondisclosure agreements may also contain clauses that will protect the person receiving the information so that if they lawfully obtained the information through other sources they would not be obligated to keep the information secret. In other words, the nondisclosure agreement typically only requires the receiving party to maintain information in confidence when that information has been directly supplied by the disclosing party. However, it is sometimes easier to get a receiving party to sign a simple agreement that is shorter, less complex and does not contain safety provisions protecting the receiver.\n\nSome common issues addressed in an NDA include:\n\n\nDeeds of confidentiality and fidelity (also referred to as deeds of confidentiality or confidentiality deeds) are commonly used in Australia. These documents generally serve the same purpose as and contain provisions similar to non-disclosure agreements (NDAs) used elsewhere. However, these documents are legally treated as deeds and are thus binding, unlike contracts, without consideration.\n\nIn California, (and some other states), there are some special circumstances relating to non-disclosure agreements and non-compete clauses. California's courts and legislature have signaled that they generally value an employee's mobility and entrepreneurship more highly than they do protectionist doctrine.\n\nUse of non-disclosure agreements are on the rise in India and is governed by the Indian Contract Act 1872. Use of an NDA is crucial in many circumstances, such as to tie in employees who are developing patentable technology if the employer intends to apply for a patent. Non-disclosure agreements have become very important in light of India's burgeoning outsourcing industry. In India, an NDA must be stamped to be a valid enforceable document.\n\n\n1. Information about non-disclosure-agreements (NDAs) published by the UK Intellectual Property Office - (\"2018-01-15\")\n\n2. Confidentiality and Confidential Disclosure Agreements (CDA) booklet edited by the UK Intellectual Property Office (\"300 KB pdf file\") - (\"2005-01\")\n"}
{"id": "3603453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3603453", "title": "Non-human electoral candidates", "text": "Non-human electoral candidates\n\nNon-human electoral candidates have been found in a number of countries. Often, the candidacies are a means of casting a protest vote or satirizing the political system. Other times it is simply done for entertainment value.\n\nElectoral regulations may explicitly require candidates to be human (or equivalent wording), or may require candidates to do things which animals cannot reasonably do (such as sign their name legibly on a legal form); most constituencies require candidates to be of the age of a legal adult, which eliminates many animals whose life expectancy is usually too short to ever qualify. On some occasions, however, animals have been accepted as candidates, and have even won office.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe notion of animals being elected to office has often been the subject of parody and folklore.\n\nIn 1817 Thomas Love Peacock's novel \"Melincourt\" featured an orangutan as a parliamentary candidate.\n\nIn 1951 cartoon \"Ballot Box Bunny\", Bugs Bunny ran for the office of mayor against Yosemite Sam. Both lost to a \"dark horse candidate\": a mare.\n\nIn 1972, American singer Tom T. Hall had a hit with a recording entitled \"The Monkey That Became President\" which considered a scenario in which said animal was elected to office.\n\nIn 1976, Marvel Comics announced that their character Howard the Duck would run in that year's election for the U.S. presidency.\n\nThe \"Black Mirror\" episode \"The Waldo Moment\" explores the concept of a cartoon character electoral candidate. Several news reports, including one by Chris Cillizza, political reporter for \"The Washington Post\", compared the 2016 Donald Trump political campaign to the episode; later, in September 2016, episode writer Charlie Brooker also compared the Trump campaign to \"The Waldo Moment\" and predicted Trump would win the 2016 election.\n\nThe nerd-folk song \"President Snakes\" from the 2015 album of the same name by the music duo The Doubleclicks explores how five snakes run as one electoral candidate.\n\nRita Mae Brown detective cat Mrs Murphy ran for President in \"Sneakie Pie for President\"\n\n"}
{"id": "21667986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21667986", "title": "Peace makers", "text": "Peace makers\n\nPeacemakers are individuals and organizations involved in peacemaking, often in countries affected by war, violent conflict, and political instability. They engage in processes such as negotiation, mediation, conciliation, and arbitration – drawing on international law and norms. The objective is to move a violent conflict into non-violent dialogue, where differences are settled through conflict transformation processes or through the work of representative political institutions.\n\nPeacemaking can occur at different levels, sometimes referred to as 'tracks'. \"High level\" (governmental and international) peacemaking, involving direct talks between the leaders of conflicting parties, is sometimes thus referred to as Track 1. Tracks 2 and 3 are said to involve dialogue at 'lower' levels—often unofficially between groups, parties, and stakeholders to a violent conflict—as well as efforts to avoid violence by addressing its causes and deleterious results. Peacemakers may be active in all three tracks, or in what is sometimes called multi-track diplomacy.\n\nThe most prominent (and sometimes most controversial) peacemakers are the Nobel Peace laureates. 96 individuals and 20 organizations have been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize since 1901 as a recognition of their remarkable contributions to peace.\n\nHere is a selected list of prominent inter-governmental and non-governmental peacemaking organizations.\n\n"}
{"id": "1826870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1826870", "title": "Popular Democratic Movement", "text": "Popular Democratic Movement\n\nThe Popular Democratic Movement (PDM), formerly the Democratic Turnhalle Alliance and DTA of Namibia, is an amalgamation of political parties in Namibia, registered as one singular party for representation purposes. In coalition with the United Democratic Front, it formed the official opposition in Parliament until the parliamentary elections in 2009. The party currently holds five seats in the Namibian National Assembly. McHenry Venaani is president of the PDM.\n\nThe PDM is an associate member of the International Democrat Union, a transnational grouping of national political parties generally identified with political conservatism.\n\nThe party was formed as the \"Democratic Turnhalle Alliance\" (DTA) in November 1977 as a result of the Turnhalle Constitutional Conference held in Windhoek from 1975 to 1977 as a counterbalance and main opposition to the South West Africa People's Organization (SWAPO). Participants of the Constitutional Conference walked out of the Constitutional Committee over the National Party's insistence on retaining apartheid legislation in the new constitution. Both conference and DTA were named after the Turnhalle building (German, old Turners hall) in Windhoek where the conference was held.\n\nThe DTA won the 1978 South West African legislative election by a landslide, claiming 41 of the 50 seats. This was largely due to \"widespread intimidation\" and the presence of South African troops, particularly in the north of the territory. The subsequent interim government, consisting of a National Assembly and a Council of Ministers, lasted until 18 January 1983 when, due to continued interference by the South African Administrator-General the Council of Ministers resigned. On 18 January 1983 South Africa accepted the dissolution of both the legislative and the executive body without elections being scheduled, and again assumed full administrative authority over South West Africa. This void lasted until 17 June 1985 when the Transitional Government of National Unity (TGNU) was installed by the South African Administrator-General. Its legislative and executive actions were subject to South African approval, with newly appointed administrator-general Louis Pienaar having the veto right on all legislation to be passed. The TGNU was widely perceived as a largely powerless body that sought moderate reform but was unable to secure recognition by the United Nations. \n\nThe DTA dominated this government, too, albeit not with absolute majority: In the 62-seat National Assembly the DTA occupied 22, and five smaller parties got 8 seats each. On 1 March 1989 TGNU was suspended along the terms of United Nations Security Council Resolution 435 for it to give way to an independent government, determined by the November 1989 parliamentary elections. SWAPO won the elections, the DTA came distant second.\n\nThe DTA's past affiliation with the apartheid government before Namibian independence continues to affect its public image. On 4 November 2017, days after its 40th anniversary, the party was renamed the Popular Democratic Movement in order to facilitate modernisation and to shed its \"colonial\" name.\n\nUpon its foundation, Clemens Kapuuo became president of the party, and Dirk Mudge served as chairman. After Kapuuo's assassination in 1978 Cornelius Ndjoba became president on 3 July. The position of the vice-president was established on that day with Ben Africa as first incumbent.\n\nMishake Muyongo led the party through the early years of independence, and in the 1994 presidential election he placed second, behind President Sam Nujoma, with 23.08% of the vote. After Muyongo expressed support for Caprivi secession in 1998, he and the party he represented in the alliance, the United Democratic Party, was suspended from the DTA in August 1998 at an extraordinary meeting of the party's executive committee. Muyongo fled Namibia and was replaced as DTA President by Katuutire Kaura, who called for Muyongo to be brought back and put on trial. Kaura served for three elective terms. In September 2013, he was defeated by McHenry Venaani.\n\nThe following parties participated at the Turnhalle Constitutional Conference and subsequently formed the Democratic Turnhalle Alliance:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "359238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=359238", "title": "Prescription drug", "text": "Prescription drug\n\nA prescription drug (also prescription medication or prescription medicine) is a pharmaceutical drug that legally requires a medical prescription to be dispensed. In contrast, over-the-counter drugs can be obtained without a prescription. The reason for this difference in substance control is the potential scope of misuse, from drug abuse to practicing medicine without a license and without sufficient education. Different jurisdictions have different definitions of what constitutes a prescription drug.\n\n\"Rx\" (℞) is often used as a short form for prescription drug in North America - a contraction of the Latin word \"recipe\" (an imperative form of \"recipere\") meaning \"take\". Prescription drugs are often dispensed together with a monograph (in Europe, a Patient Information Leaflet or PIL) that gives detailed information about the drug.\n\nThe use of prescription drugs has been increasing since the 1960s. In the U.S., 88% of older adults (62–85 years) use at least 1 prescription drug, while 36% take at least 5 prescription medicines concurrently.\n\nIn Australia, the Standard for the Uniform Scheduling of Medicines and Poisons (SUSMP) governs the manufacture and supply of drugs with several categories:\n\n\nLike in the UK, the patient visits a health practitioner, (doctor, nurse, dentist, podiatrist, etc.,), who may prescribe the drug.\n\nMany prescriptions issued by health practitioners in Australia are covered by the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme, a scheme that provides subsidised prescription drugs to residents of Australia to ensure that all Australians have affordable and reliable access to a wide range of necessary medicines. When purchasing a drug under the PBS, the consumer pays no more than the patient co-payment contribution, which, as of January 1, 2018, is A$39.50 for general patients. Those covered by government entitlements (low-income earners, welfare recipients, Health Care Card holders, etc.) and or under the Repatriation Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (RPBS) have a reduced co-payment, which is $6.40 in 2018. The co-payments are compulsory and can be discounted by pharmacies up to a maximum of A$1.00 at cost to the pharmacy.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Medicines Act 1968 and the Prescription Only Medicines (Human Use) Order 1997 contain regulations that cover the supply of sale, use, prescribing and production of medicines. There are three categories of medicine:\n\nThe possession of a prescription-only medicine without a prescription is legal unless it is covered by the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971.\n\nA patient visits a medical practitioner or dentist, who may prescribe drugs and certain other medical items, such as blood glucose-testing equipment for diabetics. Also, qualified and experienced nurses and pharmacists may be independent prescribers. Both may prescribe all POMs (including controlled drugs), but may not prescribe Schedule 1 controlled drugs, and 3 listed controlled drugs for the treatment of addiction; which is similar to doctors, who require a special license from the Home Office to prescribe schedule 1 drugs. Schedule 1 drugs have little or no medical benefit, hence their limitations on prescribing. District nurses and health visitors have had limited prescribing rights since the mid-1990s; until then, prescriptions for dressings and simple medicines had to be signed by a doctor. Once issued, a prescription is taken by the patient to a pharmacy, which dispenses the medicine.\n\nMost prescriptions are NHS prescriptions, subject to a standard charge that is unrelated to what is dispensed. The NHS prescription fee was increased to £8.80 per item in England on 1 April 2018; prescriptions are free of charge if prescribed and dispensed in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, and for some patients in England, such as inpatients, children, those over 60s or with certain medical conditions, and claimants of certain benefits. The pharmacy charges the NHS the actual cost of the medicine, which may vary from a few pence to hundreds of pounds. A patient can consolidate prescription charges by using a prescription payment certificate (informally a \"season ticket\"), effectively capping costs at £29.10 per quarter or £104.00 per year.\n\nOutside the NHS, private prescriptions are issued by private medical practitioner and sometimes under the NHS for medicines that are not covered by the NHS. A patient pays the pharmacy the normal price for medicine prescribed outside the NHS.\n\nSurvey results published by Ipsos MORI in 2008 found that around 800,000 people in England were not collecting prescriptions or getting them dispensed because of the cost, the same as in 2001.\n\nIn the United States, the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act defines what substances require a prescription for them to be dispensed by a pharmacy. The federal government authorizes physicians, psychiatrists, physician assistants, nurse practitioners and other advanced practice nurses, veterinarians, dentists, and optometrists to prescribe any controlled substance. They are then issued unique Drug Enforcement Act numbers; many other mental and physical health technicians, including basic-level registered nurses, medical assistants, emergency medical technicians, most psychologists, and social workers, for example, do not have the authority to prescribe any controlled substance.\n\nThe Controlled Substances Act (CSA) was enacted into law by the US Congress of the United States in 1970. It is the federal drug law that regulates manufacture, importation, possession, use, and distribution of certain substances. The legislation classes substances into five schedules, with varying qualifications for each schedule.\n\nThe safety and the effectiveness of prescription drugs in the US are regulated by the 1987 Prescription Drug Marketing Act (PDMA). The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is charged with implementing the law.\n\nMisuse or abuse of prescription drugs can lead to adverse drug events, including those due to dangerous drug interactions. According to one study, as many as 15% of older American adults are at risk of potential major interactions between drugs.\n\nThe package insert for a prescription drug contains information about the intended effect of the drug and how it works in the body. It also contains information about side effects, how a patient should take the drug, and cautions for its use, including warnings about allergies.\n\nAs a general rule, \"over-the-counter drugs\" (OTC) are used to treat a condition that does not need care from a healthcare professional if have been proven to meet higher safety standards for self-medication by patients. Often, a lower strength of a drug will be approved for OTC use, but higher strengths require a prescription to be obtained; a notable case is ibuprofen, which has been widely available as an OTC pain killer since the mid-1980s, but it is available by prescription in doses up to four times the OTC dose for severe pain that is not adequately controlled by the OTC strength.\n\nHerbal preparations, amino acids, vitamins, minerals, and other food supplements are regulated by the FDA as dietary supplements. Because specific health claims cannot be made, the consumer must make informed decisions when purchasing such products.\n\nBy law, American pharmacies operated by \"membership clubs\" such as Costco and Sam's Club must allow non-members to use their pharmacy services and may not charge more for these services than they charge as their members.\n\nPhysicians may legally prescribe drugs for uses other than those specified in the FDA approval, known as off-label use. Drug companies, however, are prohibited from marketing their drugs for off-label uses.\n\nLarge US retailers that operate pharmacies and pharmacy chains use inexpensive generic drugs as a way to attract customers into stores. Several chains, including Walmart, Kroger (including subsidiaries such as Dillons), Target, and others, offer $4 monthly prescriptions on select generic drugs as a customer draw. Publix Supermarkets, which has pharmacies in many of their stores, offers free prescriptions on a few older but still effective medications to their customers. The maximum supply is for 30 days.\n\nMany prescription drugs are commonly abused, particularly those marketed as analgesics, including fentanyl (Duragesic), hydrocodone (Vicodin), oxycodone (OxyContin), oxymorphone (Opana), propoxyphene (Darvon), hydromorphone (Dilaudid), meperidine (Demerol), and diphenoxylate (Lomotil).\n\nPrescription painkillers have been found to be extremely addictive, and unintentional poisoning deaths in the United States have skyrocketed since the 1990s according to the National Safety Council. Prescriber education guidelines as well as patient education, prescription drug monitoring programs and regulation of pain clinics are regulatory tactics which have been used to curtail opioid use and misuse.\n\nThe expiration date, required in several countries, specifies the date up to which the manufacturer guarantees the full potency and safety of a drug. In the United States, expiration dates are determined by regulations established by the FDA. The FDA advises consumers not to use products after their expiration dates.\n\nA study conducted by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration covered over 100 drugs, prescription and over-the-counter. The results showed that about 85% of them were safe and effective as far as 15 years past their expiration date. Joel Davis, a former FDA expiration-date compliance chief, said that with a handful of exceptions—notably nitroglycerin, insulin, some liquid antibiotics; outdated tetracyclines can cause Fanconi syndrome—most expired drugs are probably effective.\n\nThe American Medical Association (AMA) issued a report and statement on Pharmaceutical Expiration Dates. The Harvard Medical School Family Health Guide notes that, with rare exceptions, \"it's true the effectiveness of a drug may decrease over time, but much of the original potency still remains even a decade after the expiration date\".\n\nThe expiration date is the final day that the manufacturer guarantees the full potency and safety of a medication. Drug expiration dates exist on most medication labels, including prescription, over-the-counter (OTC) and dietary (herbal) supplements. U.S. pharmaceutical manufacturers are required by law to place expiration dates on prescription products prior to marketing. For legal and liability reasons, manufacturers will not make recommendations about the stability of drugs past the original expiration date.\n\nPrices for prescription drugs vary widely around the world. Prescription costs for biosimilar and generic drugs are usually less than brand names, but the cost is different from one pharmacy to another.\n\nPrescription drug prices including generic prices are rising faster than the average rate of inflation. To subsidize prescription drug costs, some patients have decided to buy medicine online.\n\nGenerics undergo strict scrutiny to meet the equal efficacy, safety, dosage, strength, stability, and quality of brand name drugs. Generics are developed after the brand name has already been established, and so generic drug approval in many aspects has a shortened approval process because it replicates the brand name drug.\n\nBrand name drugs cost more due to time, money, and resources that drug companies invest in in order to repeat research clinical trials that the FDA requires for the drug to remain in the market. Because drug companies have to invest more in research costs to do this, brand name drug prices are much higher when sold to consumers.\n\nWhen the patent expires for a brand name drug, generic versions of that drug are produced by other companies and are sold for lower price. By switching to generic prescription drugs, patients can save significant amounts of money: e.g. one study by the FDA showed an example with more than 50% savings of a patient's overall costs of their prescription drugs.\n\nIn the United States there are many resources available to patients to lower the costs of medication. These include copayments, coinsurance and deductibles. The Medicaid Drug Rebate Program is another example. \n\nGeneric drug program lowers amount of money patient has to pay when picking up their prescription at the pharmacy and as their name implies they only cover generic drugs.\n\nCo-pay assistance programs are program to help patient lower costs of specialty medications: i.e. medications that are on restricted formulary, limited distribution, and with no generics available. These medications can include drugs for HIV, hepatitis C, and multiple sclerosis. Patient Assistance Program Center (RxAssist) has a list of foundations that provide co-pay assistance programs. It is important to note that co-pay assistance programs are for the under-insured patients. Patients without insurance are not eligible for this resource, however they may be eligible for patient assistance programs.\n\nPatient assistance programs are funded by the manufacturer of the medication. Patients can often apply to these programs through the manufacturer's website. This type of assistance program is one of the few options for the uninsured patient.\n\nThe out of pocket costs for patients enrolled in co-pay assistance or patient assistance programs are $0. It is a major resource to help lower costs of medications – however, many providers and patients are not aware of the resources.\n\nTraces of prescription drugs — including antibiotics, anti-convulsants, mood stabilizers and sex hormones — have been detected in drinking water. Pharmaceutically active compounds (PhACs) discarded from human therapy and their metabolites have been found to not be completely eliminated by sewage treatment plants and have been found at low concentrations in surface waters downstream from those plants. The continuous discarding of incompletely treated water may interact with other environmental chemicals and lead to uncertain ecological effects. Due to most pharmaceuticals being highly soluble, fish and other aquatic organisms are susceptible to their effects. The long term effects of pharmaceuticals in the environment may affect survival and reproduction of such organisms. However, levels of medical drug waste in the water is at a low enough level that it is not a direct concern to human health. However, processes, such as biomagnification, are potential concerns in impacting human health.\n\nOn the other hand, there is clear evidence of harm to aquatic animals and fauna. Recent advancements in technology have allowed scientists to detect smaller, trace quantities of pharmaceuticals in the ng/ml range. Despite being found such low concentrations, female hormonal contraceptives have been documented to cause feminizing effects on males of vertebrate species, such as fish, frogs and crocodiles. A promising model has been developed to further study the effects on our aquatic environment. The \"biological read across model\" combines the concepts of mechanism of action (MoA) and adverse outcomes pathway (AOP). In other words, the species being studied needs to have similar mechanisms by which the pharmaceutical acts on the species and reach similar concentrations that would be enough to cause an effect in humans. Studying these relations may give us more quantifiable information on the effects of pharmaceuticals in our environment.\n\nCurrently, research is being done on various methods of reducing chemical waste in the environment. In addition, the U.S. Food & Drug Administration (FDA) established guidelines in 2007 to inform consumers should dispose of prescription drugs. When medications do not include specific disposal instructions, patients should not flush medications in the toilet, but instead use medication take-back programs. This aims to reduce the amount of pharmaceutical waste that gets into our sewage and landfills. If no take-back programs are available, prescription drugs can be discarded in household trash after they are crushed and/or dissolved and then mixed in a separate container or sealable baggie with undesirable substances like kitty litter or other unappealing material (to discourage consumption).\n\n"}
{"id": "410685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=410685", "title": "Public diplomacy", "text": "Public diplomacy\n\nIn international relations, public diplomacy or people's diplomacy, broadly speaking, is the communication with and dissemination of propaganda to the general public of foreign nations to establish a dialogue designed to inform and influence. As the international order has changed over the 20th century, so has the practice of public diplomacy. Its practitioners use a variety of instruments and methods ranging from personal contact and media interviews to the Internet and educational exchanges.\n\nIn his essay \"'Public Diplomacy' Before Gullion: The Evolution of a Phrase,\" Nicholas J. Cull of the USC Center on Public Diplomacy writes, \"The earliest use of the phrase 'public diplomacy' to surface is actually not American at all but in a leader piece from the London Times in January 1856. It is used merely as a synonym for civility in a piece criticizing the posturing of President Franklin Pierce.\" Cull writes that Edmund Gullion, dean of the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University and a distinguished retired foreign service officer, \"was the first to use the phrase in its modern meaning.\" In 1965, Gullion founded the Edward R. Murrow Center of Public Diplomacy, and Cull writes \"An early Murrow Center brochure provided a convenient summary of Gullion's concept\":\n\nPublic diplomacy... deals with the influence of public attitudes on the formation and execution of foreign policies. It encompasses dimensions of international relations beyond traditional diplomacy; the cultivation by governments of public opinion in other countries; the interaction of private groups and interests in one country with another; the reporting of foreign affairs and its impact on policy; communication between those whose job is communication, as diplomats and foreign correspondents; and the process of intercultural communications.\n\nOver time, the concept and definition has evolved by various practitioners\n\nThe most important roles public diplomacy will have to play for the United States in the current international environment will be less grand-strategic and more operational than during the Cold War. Support of national policy in military contingencies is one such role, and probably the most important.\n— Carnes Lord (former Deputy Director USIA), Professor of Statecraft and Civilization, October 1998\n\nPublic diplomacy – effectively communicating with publics around the globe – to understand, value and even emulate America's vision and ideas; historically one of America's most effective weapons of outreach, persuasion and policy.\n— Jill A. Schuker (former Senior Director for Public Affairs at the National Security Council) July 2004\n\nPublic diplomacy's 21st century trend is dominated by fractal globalization, preemptive military invasion, information and communication technologies that shrink time and distance, and the rise of global non-state actors (terror networks, bloggers) that challenge state-driven policy and discourse on the subject.\n— (Nancy Snow, \"Routledge Handbook of Public Diplomacy\", \"2009\")\nPublic diplomacy may be defined, simply, as the conduct of international relations by governments through public communications media and through dealings with a wide range of nongovernmental entities (political parties, corporations, trade associations, labor unions, educational institutions, religious organizations, ethnic groups, and so on including influential individuals) for the purpose of influencing the politics and actions of other governments.\n\n— Alan K. Henrikson, Professor of Diplomatic History, April 2005.\n\nPublic diplomacy that traditionally represents actions of governments to influence overseas publics within the foreign policy process has expanded today – by accident and design – beyond the realm of governments to include the media, multinational corporations, NGO's and faith-based organizations as active participants in the field. \n— Crocker Snow Jr., Acting Director Edward R. Murrow Center, May 2005.\n\n\"PUBLIC DIPLOMACY refers to government-sponsored programs intended to inform or influence public opinion in other countries; its chief instruments are publications, motion pictures, cultural exchanges, radio and television.\" (U.S. Department of State, Dictionary of International Relations Terms, 1987, p. 85)\n\nThe United States Information Agency (USIA), which was the main government agency in charge of Public Diplomacy until it merged with the Department of State in 1999, described it as:\n\nPublic diplomacy seeks to promote the national interest and the national security of the United States through understanding, informing, and influencing foreign publics and broadening dialogue between American citizens and institutions and their counterparts abroad.\n\nFor The Planning Group for Integration of USIA into the Dept. of State (June 20, 1997), public diplomacy is defined as follows: \"Public Diplomacy seeks to promote the national interest of the United States through understanding, informing and influencing foreign audiences.\"\n\nAccording to Hans N. Tuch, author of Communicating With the World (St. Martin's Press, NY, 1990), public diplomacy is defined as: \n\"Official government efforts to shape the communications environment overseas in which American foreign policy is played out, in order to reduce the degree to which misperceptions and misunderstandings complicate relations between the U.S. and other nations.\"\n\nStandard diplomacy might be described as the ways in which government leaders communicate with each other at the highest levels, the elite diplomacy we are all familiar with. Public diplomacy, by contrast focuses on the ways in which a country (or multi-lateral organization such as the United Nations) communicates with citizens in other societies. A country may be acting deliberately or inadvertently, and through both official and private individuals and institutions. Effective public diplomacy starts from the premise that dialogue, rather than a sales pitch, is often central to achieving the goals of foreign policy: public diplomacy must be seen as a two-way street. Furthermore, public diplomacy activities often present many differing views as represented by private American individuals and organizations in addition to official U.S. Government views.\n\nTraditional diplomacy actively engages one government with another government. In traditional diplomacy, U.S. Embassy officials represent the U.S. Government in a host country primarily by maintaining relations and conducting official USG business with the officials of the host government whereas public diplomacy primarily engages many diverse non-government elements of a society.\n\nFilm, television, music, sports, video games and other social/cultural activities are seen by public diplomacy advocates as enormously important avenues for otherwise diverse citizens to understand each other and integral to the international cultural understanding, which they state is a key goal of modern public diplomacy strategy. It involves not only shaping the message(s) that a country wishes to present abroad, but also analyzing and understanding the ways that the message is interpreted by diverse societies and developing the tools of listening and conversation as well as the tools of persuasion.\n\nOne of the most successful initiatives which embodies the principles of effective public diplomacy is the creation by international treaty in the 1950s of the European Coal and Steel Community which later became the European Union. Its original purpose after World War II was to tie the economies of Europe together so much that war would be impossible. Supporters of European integration see it as having achieved both this goal and the extra benefit of catalysing greater international understanding as European countries did more business together and the ties among member states' citizens increased. Opponents of European integration are leery of a loss of national sovereignty and greater centralization of power.\n\nPublic diplomacy has been an essential element of American foreign policy for decades. It was an important tool in influencing public opinion during the Cold War with the former Soviet Union. Since the attacks of September 11, 2001, the term has come back into vogue as the United States government works to improve their reputation abroad, particularly in the Middle East and among those in the Islamic world. Numerous panels, including those sponsored by the Council on Foreign Relations, have evaluated American efforts in public diplomacy since 9/11 and have written reports recommending that the United States take various actions to improve the effectiveness of their public diplomacy.\n\nThe United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy was established in the late 1940s to evaluate American public diplomacy effort. The Commission is a seven-member bipartisan board whose members are nominated by the President and confirmed by the United States Senate. William Hybl is the current chair, and other members include former Ambassadors Lyndon Olson and Penne Percy Korth Peacock, as well as Jay Snyder, John E. Osborn and Lezlee Westine.\n\nThis traditional concept is expanded on with the idea of adopting what is called \"population-centric foreign affairs\" within which foreign populations assume a central component of foreign policy. Since people, not just states, are of global importance in a world where technology and migration increasingly face everyone, an entire new door of policy is opened.\n\nThere are many methods and instruments that are used in public diplomacy. Nicholas J. Cull divides the practice into five elements: listening, advocacy, cultural diplomacy, exchange diplomacy and international broadcasting (IB).\n\nInternational broadcasting remains a key element in public diplomacy in the 21st century, with traditionally weaker states having the opportunity to challenge the hegemony and monopoly of information provided by more powerful states.\n\nMethods such as personal contact, broadcasters such as the Voice of America, Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty exchange programs such as Fulbright and the International Visitor Leadership program, American arts and performances in foreign countries, and the use of the Internet are all instruments used for practicing public diplomacy depending on the audience to be communicated with and the message to be conveyed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "298401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=298401", "title": "Rio Protocol", "text": "Rio Protocol\n\nThe Protocol of Peace, Friendship, and Boundaries between Peru and Ecuador, or Rio Protocol for short, was an international agreement signed in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, on January 29, 1942, by the foreign ministers of Peru and Ecuador, with the participation of the United States, Brazil, Chile, and Argentina as guarantors. The Protocol was intended to finally resolve the long-running territorial dispute between the two countries, and brought about the official end of the Ecuadorian–Peruvian War of 1941-1942. Nevertheless, the Protocol was incomplete, and war broke out between Peru and Ecuador twice more, in 1981 and in 1995, before the signing of the Itamaraty Peace Declaration which brought final resolution to the dispute.\n\nIn May 1941, as tensions at the Ecuadorian-Peruvian border mounted and war was imminent, the governments of the United States, Brazil, and Argentina offered their services in aiding in the mediation of the dispute. Their efforts failed to prevent the outbreak of hostilities on July 23, 1941, but the diplomatic intervention led to a definitive cease-fire being put into place on July 31. Despite this, limited skirmishes continued to occur through the months of August and September in the Ecuadorian provinces of El Oro and Loja, as well as in the Amazonian lands. Ecuador accused Peru of continuing its advances into the highland province of Azuay.\n\nOn October 2, with military observers from the three mediating countries serving as witnesses, Ecuador and Peru signed the Talara Accord, which created a demilitarized zone inside the provinces of El Oro and Loja, pending the signing of a definitive peace treaty. Diplomatic efforts continued, with the mediating countries being joined by Chile.\n\nWith its recent entry into World War II, the United States was eager to present a united American continent. At the third Pan-American Summit, held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, the United States encouraged a settlement between the two countries.\n\nOn January 29, 1942, on the final day of the third Pan-American Summit, held in Rio de Janeiro, the foreign ministers of Ecuador and Peru, Julio Tobar Donoso and Alfredo Solf y Muro, signed a \"Protocol of Peace, Friendship, and Boundaries\", known as the Rio de Janeiro Protocol. The observers from the United States, Brazil, Argentina, and Chile co-signed the document, becoming \"Guarantors of the Protocol\". The Rio Protocol was subsequently ratified by each country's congress on February 26, 1942.\n\nBy the terms of the Protocol, Ecuador agreed to withdraw its long-standing claim for rights to direct land access to the Marañon and Amazon rivers; Peru agreed to withdraw Peruvian military forces from Ecuadorian territory. An area of of hitherto disputed territory in the Maynas region of the Amazonian basin was awarded to Peru, which had been established to be the \"de facto\" possessor of the land since the end of the 19th century. The \"status quo\" line defined in the 1936 Lima Accord was used as the basis for the definitive border line; the previous border recognized current possessions, but not sovereignty. Relative to the 1936 line, Ecuador ceded 18,552 km² of previously possessed territory to Peru, while Peru ceded 5,072 km² of previously possessed territory to Ecuador.\n\nDuring the 1960s, the Ecuadorian government alleged that the Protocol was invalid, because it had been signed under coercion while foreign troops were stationed on Ecuadorian soil. This stance was modified by subsequent governments, but was never officially reverted until the resolution of the dispute in 1995.\n\nThe intended goal of the Rio Protocol was not fulfilled until the signing of the Itamaraty Peace Declaration in 1995. Between the signing of the two treaties, the Paquisha Incident and the Cenepa War rekindled the dispute.\n\nPROTOCOL OF PEACE, FRIENDSHIP, AND BOUNDARIES BETWEEN PERU AND ECUADOR \n\nThe Governments of Peru and Ecuador, desiring to settle the boundary dispute which, over a long period of time, has separated them, and taking into consideration the offer that was made to them by the Governments of the United States of America, of the Argentine Republic, of the United States of Brazil, and of Chile, of their friendly services to seek a prompt and honorable solution to the program, and moved by the American spirit that prevails in the Third Consultative Meeting of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the American Republics, have resolved to conclude a protocol of peace, friendship, and boundaries in the presence of the representatives of those four friendly Governments. To this end, the following plenipotentiaries take part: \n\nFor the Republic of Peru, Doctor Alfredo Solf y Muro, Minister of Foreign Affairs; and \n\nFor the Republic of Ecuador, Doctor Julio Tobar Donoso, Minister of Foreign Affairs; \n\nWho, after having exhibited the respective full powers of the parties, and having found them in good and due form, agree to the signing of the following protocol: \n\nARTICLE I \n\nThe Governments of Peru and Ecuador solemnly affirm their resolute intention of maintaining between the two peoples relations of peace and friendship, of understanding and good faith and of abstaining, the one with respect to the other, from any action capable of disturbing such relations. \n\nARTICLE II \n\nThe Government of Peru shall, within a period of 15 days from this date, withdraw its military forces to the line described in article VIII of this protocol. \n\nARTICLE III \n\nThe United States of America, Argentina, Brazil, and Chile shall cooperate, by means of military observers, in order to adjust to circumstances this evacuation and retirement of troops, according to the terms of the preceding article. \n\nARTICLE IV \n\nThe military forces of the two countries shall remain in their new positions until the definitive demarcation of the frontier line. Until then, Ecuador shall have only civil jurisdiction in the zones evacuated by Peru, which remain in the same status as the demilitarized zone of the Talara Act. \n\nARTICLE V \n\nThe activity of the United States, Argentina, Brazil, and Chile shall continue until the definitive demarcation of frontiers between Peru and Ecuador has been completed, this protocol and the execution thereof being under the guaranty of the four countries mentioned at the beginning of this article. \n\nARTICLE VI \n\nEcuador shall enjoy, for purposes of navigation on the Amazon and its northern tributaries, the same concessions that Brazil and Colombia enjoy, in addition to those that may be agreed upon in a Treaty of Commerce and Navigation designed to facilitate free and untaxed navigation on the aforesaid rivers. \n\nARTICLE VII \n\nAny doubt or disagreement that may arise in the execution of this protocol shall be settled by the parties concerned, with the assistance of the representatives of the United States, Argentina, Brazil, and Chile, in the shortest possible time. \n\nARTICLE VIII \n\nThe boundary line shall follow the points named below: \nA)-In the west: \n\nThe mouth of the Capones in the ocean; \n\nThe Zarumilla River and the Balsamal or Lajas Quebrada; \n\nThe Puyango or Tumbes River to the Quebrada de Cazaderos; \n\nCazaderos; \n\nThe Quebrada de Pilares y del Alamor to the Chira River; \n\nThe Chira River, upstream; \n\nThe Macará, Calvas, and Espíndola Rivers, upstream, to the sources of the last mentioned in the Nudo de Sabanillas; \n\nFrom the Nudo de Sabanillas to the Canchis River; \n\nAlong the whole course of the Canchis River, downstream; \n\nThe Chinchipe River, downstream, to the point at which it receives the San Francisco River. \n\nB)-In the east: \n\nFrom the Quebrada de San Francisco, the watershed between the Zamora and Santiago Rivers, to the confluence of the Santiago River with the Yaupi; \n\nA line to the outlet of the Bobonaza into the Pastaza. The confluence of the Conambo River with the Pintoyacu in the Tigre River; \n\nOutlet of the Cononaco into the Curaray, downstream, to Bellavista; \n\nA line to the outlet of the Yasuní into the Napo River. Along the Napo, downstream, to the mouth of the Aguarico; \n\nAlong the latter, upstream, to the confluence of the Lagartococha or Zancudo River with the Aguarico; \n\nThe Lagartococha or Zancudo River, upstream, to its sources and from there a straight line meeting the Güepí River and along this river to its outlet into the Putumayo, and along the Putumayo upstream to the boundary of Ecuador and Colombia \n\nARTICLE IX \n\nIt is understood that the line above described shall be accepted by Peru and Ecuador for the demarcation of the boundary between the two countries, by technical experts, on the grounds. The parties may, however, when the line is being laid out on the ground, grant such reciprocal concessions as they may consider advisable in order to adjust the aforesaid line to geographical realities. These rectifications shall be made with the collaboration of the representatives of the United States of America, the Argentine Republic, Brazil, and Chile. \n\nThe Governments of Peru and Ecuador shall submit this protocol to their respective Congresses and the corresponding approval is to be obtained within a period of not more than 30 days. \n\nIn witness thereof, the plenipotentiaries mentioned above sign and seal the present protocol, in two copies, in Spanish, in the city of Rio de Janeiro, at one o’clock, the twenty-ninth day of January, of the year nineteen hundred and forty-two, under the auspices of His Excellency the President of Brazil and in the presence of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the Argentine Republic, Brazil, and Chile and of the Under Secretary of State of the United States of America. \n\n(SIGNED ALSO BY REPRESENTATIVES OF THE \n\nUNITED STATES OF AMERICA, ARGENTINA, BRAZIL, AND CHILE) \n\nSigned at Rio de Janeiro, January 29, 1942. \n\nApproved by the Congress of Ecuador, February 26, 1942. \n\nApproved by the Congress of Peru, February 26, 1942. \n\n(L.S.) Alfredo Solf y Muro \n\n(L.S.) J. Tobar Donoso\n\nSigned) Sumner Welles\n\nSigned) E. Ruiz Guiñazú\n\nSigned) Juan B. Rossetti\n\nSigned) Oswaldo Aranha\n\n"}
{"id": "22679017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22679017", "title": "Situationist prank", "text": "Situationist prank\n\nSituationist prank is a term used in the mass media to label a distinctive tactic by the Situationist International, consisting of setting up a subversive political prank, hoax or stunt; In the terminology of the Situationist International, stunts and media pranks are very similar to \"situations\". The \"détournement\" technique, that is \"turning expressions of the capitalist system against itself,\" was the essential element of a situationist prank. The Situationist tactic of using \"détournement\" for subversive pranks is such a distinctive and influential aspect of the Situationist International, that they are sometimes labeled as a group of political \"pranksters\".\n\nThis tactic was used by the Sex Pistols to mock Queen Elizabeth II's Silver Jubilee celebrations. It also inspired the culture jamming movement in the late 1980s. The expression situationist prankster has been later established as a typical label used on those who perform media pranks or publicity stunts.\n\nOne of the earliest Situationist pranks, The Notre-Dame Affair was an intervention performed by members of the radical wing of the Lettrist movement (Michel Mourre, Serge Berna, Ghislain Desnoyers de Marbaix and Jean Rullier), on Easter Sunday, April 9, 1950, at Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris, while the mass was aired live on National TV. Michel Mourre, dressed in the habit of a Dominican monk and backed by his co-conspirators, chose a quiet moment in the Easter High Mass to climb to the rostrum and declaim before the whole congregation a blasphemous anti-sermon on the death of God, penned by Serge Berna.\n\nTaking advantage of the apathy of their colleagues, five \"Pro-situs\", Situationist-influenced students had infiltrated the University of Strasbourg's student union in November 1966 and began scandalising the authorities. Their first action was to form an \"anarchist appreciation society\" called The Society for the Rehabilitation for Karl Marx and Ravachol; next they appropriated union funds to flypost \"Return of the Durruti Column\", Andre Bertrand's \"détourned\" comic strip. They then invited the Situationists to contribute a critique of the University of Strasbourg, and \"On the Poverty of Student Life\", written by Tunisian Situationist Mustapha/Omar Khayati was the result.\n\nThe students promptly proceeded to print 10,000 copies of the pamphlet using university funds and distributed them during a ceremony marking the beginning of the academic year. This provoked an immediate outcry in the local, national and international media.\n\nBy 1972, Gianfranco Sanguinetti and Guy Debord were the only two remaining members of Situationist International. Working with Debord, in August 1975, Sanguinetti wrote a pamphlet titled \"Rapporto veridico sulle ultime opportunità di salvare il capitalismo in Italia\" (Eng: \"Veritable Report on the Last Chances to Save Capitalism in Italy\"), which (inspired by Bruno Bauer) purported to be the cynical writing of \"Censor\", a powerful industrialist. The pamphlet argues that the ruling class of Italy supported the Piazza Fontana bombing and other mass slaughter, for the higher goal of defending the capitalist status quo from communist claims. The pamphlet was mailed to 520 of Italy's most powerful individuals. It was received as genuine, and powerful politicians, industrialists and journalists praised its contents and guessed the identity of its high-profile author. After reprinting the tract into a small book, Sanguinetti revealed himself to be the true author. Under pressure from Italian authorities, Sanguinetti left Italy in February 1976, and was denied re-entry to France, from which he had previously been deported in 1971.\n\nFilm \"Hurlements en faveur de Sade\" (Howls for de Sade) (1952) by Guy Debord, had 24 minutes of black screen. Book \"Mémoires\" (1959) by Guy Debord and Asger Jorn had the cover made of sandpaper.\n\nThe situationist tactic of a détournement-based hoax was notoriously used in February 1977 by the Sex Pistols, who played their version of \"God Save the Queen\" while sailing down the River Thames past the Houses of Parliament to mock the Silver Jubilee river procession in honor of Queen Elizabeth II.\n\nThe expression situationist prankster has been later established as a typical label used on those who perform media pranks or publicity stunts, as in the cases of \"The KLF\", the \"K Foundation\", Genesis P-Orridge, Harun Farocki, and others.\n\nA growth of campaigns using tactics such as the Flash Mob or Subvertising in recent years can be traced to situationist pranks. These tactics, notable in stunts by The Yes Men, campaigns by Green Peace, and guerilla art by Banksy, have been characterised by their appropriation of establishment symbols, shifting the intended purpose of public (now private) space, or creating bizarre reality hacks that merely remix the cultural context, as opposed to providing something entirely surreal. Some surreal pranks continue to exist in more subversive movements, such as the Alley concept, and are traceable to situationist pranks in their deliberate constructions of surreal situations that juxtapose the Spectacle thereby aiming to reawaken authentic desires and liberate everyday life.\n\nThe concept forms the primary genre on popular Australian television series \"The Chaser's War on Everything.\" Worldwide media attention followed their successful entry into the G20 Summit held in Sydney, Australia - September 2007. The group formed a motorcade with a Bin Laden-esque character inside a limousine flying flags of a non-existent country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20184069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20184069", "title": "Standards for Better Health", "text": "Standards for Better Health\n\nStandards for Better Health were a set of standards for the National Health Service in England. The standards were set out by the Department of Health of the United Kingdom in a document of the same name published in 2004. NHS trusts had to declare their level of compliance with these standards to the Healthcare Commission annually as part of the Commission's \"annual health check\". The standards were replaced from 2009/10 by registration criteria established by the Department of Health and Care Quality Commission, which took over from the Healthcare Commission on 1 April 2009.\n\nThe standards were listed under seven headings or \"domains\", three of which focused on \"patient experience\":\n\n\nThe standards were divided into 24 core and 13 developmental standards. Compliance with the core standards had always been mandatory but the approach taken by the Department of Health and Healthcare Commission with respect to the developmental standards varied.\n"}
{"id": "5845591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5845591", "title": "The Doha Debates", "text": "The Doha Debates\n\nThe Doha Debates are a forum for free speech in Qatar and tackle the region's most controversial and topical issues. They are sponsored by Qatar Foundation and their broadcasting rights are sold to BBC World News where they are aired monthly, eight times a year. The debates entered into their eighth series in October 2011.\n\nIn addition to BBC World News the Doha Debates are broadcast on MHz Networks and Thirteen (television station) in the USA, GEO TV in Pakistan, TV BiH in Bosnia and Hertzegovina and the Real News Network in Canada and the USA. The total potential global audience for the Debates is over 350 million.\n\nThe Doha Debates are hosted and funded by the Qatar Foundation for Education, Science and Community Development - a private, chartered, non-profit organization, founded in 1995 and chaired by Mozah bint Nasser Al Missned. The Doha Debates supported the creation of QatarDebate, an independent student debating organization for Qatar, in 2007.\n\nThe Doha Debates are chaired by the award-winning, former BBC correspondent and interviewer Tim Sebastian, who founded them in 2004 and secured their editorial independence. No government, official body or broadcaster has any control over what is said at the sessions or who is invited. Televised eight times a year by BBC World News, the debates are based on a centuries-old format, refined by the famous Oxford Union. They focus on a single, controversial motion, with two speakers for and against. Once they have outlined their arguments, each speaker is questioned by the chairman and the discussion is then opened up to the audience for argument and a final electronic vote.\n\nThe Doha Debates have become the Middle East’s forum of choice for many prominent statesmen. Special events – which feature Q&A sessions with a single guest – have attracted such names as Bill Clinton, Mohamed El Baradei, Shimon Peres, Amre Moussa, Ayad Allawi, and Mahmoud Zahar.\n\nTwo thirds of the local audience are students, from a wide range of Arab and Islamic countries. In several debates they have adopted radical and unexpected positions. Clear majorities have stated that Muslims are failing to combat extremism and that the Palestinians risk becoming their own worst enemy. Internationally, the debates have attracted wide attention. BBC World News is seen by nearly 300 million viewers, across 200 countries. The website – www.thedohadebates.com - now receives more than a million hits a month.\n\nThe Debates confront head-on the sensitive topics of the region: torture, terrorism and suicide bombings, political turmoil and human rights. Past motions have questioned whether it was time to talk to Al Qaeda; whether Hezbollah had the right to fight a war on Lebanon’s behalf; and whether the pro-Israel lobby was successfully stifling criticism of the country’s actions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "512933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=512933", "title": "Unification movement", "text": "Unification movement\n\nThe Unification movement or Unificationism, also called the Unification Church (UC), is a worldwide new religious movement. Its members are colloquially called \"Moonies\". It was officially founded under the name Holy Spirit Association for the Unification of World Christianity (HSA-UWC) in Seoul, South Korea, in 1954, by Sun Myung Moon, a Korean religious leader also known for his business ventures and engagement in social and political causes. In 1994 the HSA-UWC was replaced by Moon with a new organization, the Family Federation for World Peace and Unification (FFWPU).\n\nThe beliefs of the movement are based on Moon's book \"Divine Principle\", which claims to incorporate Christian teachings but differs on many points including its view of Jesus and its introduction of the concept of \"indemnity.\" Unification movement ceremonies include unique funeral and wedding ceremonies.\n\nThe movement is a spiritually-based movement of legally independent organizations, including business, educational, political, and other types of organizations. \n\nIt has received strong criticism and has attracted numerous controversies, including that of being a dangerous cult. Its involvement in politics has also been criticized. Its beliefs have been criticized by both Jewish and Christian scholars. Moon and his wife remain banned from entry into Germany and the other 14 Schengen treaty countries, on the grounds that they are leaders of a \"sect\" that endangered the personal and social development of young people. Japan refuses to issue a visa on the grounds that Rev. Moon is a \"felon\" (see Moon tax case).\n\n\"Moonie\" is a colloquial term sometimes used to refer to members of the Unification movement. This is derived from the name of the UC's founder Sun Myung Moon, and was first used in 1974 by the American media. Unification movement members have used the word \"Moonie\", including Moon himself, President of the Unification Theological Seminary David Kim, and Bo Hi Pak, Moon's aide and president of Little Angels Children's Folk Ballet of Korea. In the 1980s and 1990s the Unification Church of the United States undertook an extensive public relations campaign against the use of the word by the news media. In 1989 the \"Chicago Tribune\" was picketed after referring to members as \"Moonies\". Minister and civil rights leader James Bevel handed out fliers at the protest which said: \"Are the Moonies our new niggers?\" On an October 6, 1994 broadcast of \"Nightline\", host Ted Koppel stated: \"On last night's program ...I used the term 'Moonies'. This is a label which members of the Reverend Sun Myung Moon's Unification Church find demeaning and offensive, and I'd like to apologize for its use.\" In other contexts it is still sometimes used and not always considered pejorative.\n\nOn February 25, 1920, Sun Myung Moon was born Mun Yong-myeong in modern-day Sangsa-ri (上思里), Deogun-myon, Jeongju-gun, North P'yŏng'an Province, at a time when Korea was under Japanese rule. Moon's birthday was recorded as January 6 by the traditional lunar calendar (February 25, 1920, according to the Gregorian Calendar). Around 1930 Moon's family, who followed traditional Confucianist beliefs, converted to Christianity and joined the Presbyterian Church, where he later taught Sunday school.\n\nUnification Church members believe that Jesus appeared to Mun Yong-myong (his birth name) on Easter Day in 1936, and asked him to accomplish the work left unfinished after his crucifixion. After a period of prayer and consideration, Moon accepted the mission, later changing his name to Mun Son-myong (Moon Sun-myung or Sun Myung Moon).\n\nIn November 1943, Moon married Sun Kil Choi.\n\nIn 1943, Hak Ja Han, Moon's future wife, was born in North Korea.\n\nAfter World War II and the Japanese occupation ended in 1945, Moon began preaching his message. In 1946, Moon traveled alone to Pyongyang in Communist-ruled North Korea. Moon was arrested on allegations of spying for South Korea and given a five-year sentence to the Hŭngnam labor camp.\n\nIn 1950, after serving 34 months of his sentence, Moon was released from North Korea during the Korean War when United Nations troops advanced on the camp and the guards fled. In 1953, Moon divorced Choi. It is also reported that he had a child with a different woman in 1954.\n\nMoon's teachings, called the \"Divine Principle\", were first published as \"Wonli Wonbon\" (원리 원본, \"Original Text of the Divine Principle\") in 1945. The earliest manuscript was lost in North Korea during the Korean War. A second, expanded version, \"Wonli Hesol (원리 해설)\", or \"Explanation of the Divine Principle\", was published in 1957. Its most propagated text, \"Exposition of the Divine Principle\", was published in 1966. Moon built his first church as a refugee in Pusan.\n\nMoon founded the Holy Spirit Association for the Unification of World Christianity (HSA-UWC) in Seoul on May 1, 1954. It expanded rapidly in South Korea and by the end of 1955 had 30 centers throughout the nation. The HSA-UWC expanded throughout the world with most members living in South Korea, Japan, the Philippines, and other nations in East Asia. \n\nIn 1958, Moon sent missionaries to Japan, and in 1959, to America. Missionary work took place in Washington, DC, New York, and California. It found success in the San Francisco Bay Area, where the HSA-UWC expanded in Oakland, Berkeley, and San Francisco. By 1971, the HSA-UWC in the US had about 500 members. By 1973, it had some presence in all 50 states and a few thousand members. In the 1970s, American HSA-UWC members were noted for their enthusiasm and dedication, which often included raising money for UC projects on so-called \"mobile fundraising teams\".\n\nThe HSA-UWC also sent missionaries to Europe. They entered Czechoslovakia in 1968 and remained underground until the 1990s. Unification movement activity in South America began in the 1970s with missionary work. Later, the HSA-UWC made large investments in civic organizations and business projects, including an international newspaper. Starting in the 1990s, the HSA-UWC expanded in Russia and other former communist nations. Hak Ja Han, Moon's wife, made a radio broadcast to the nation from the State Kremlin Palace. As of 1994, the HSA-UWC had about 5,000 members in Russia. About 500 Russian students had been sent to USA to participate in 40-day workshops.\n\nMoon moved to the United States in 1971, although he remained a citizen of the Republic of Korea. In the 1970s, he gave a series of public speeches in the United States, including one in Madison Square Garden in New York City in 1974; two in 1976 in Yankee Stadium in New York City; and one on the grounds of the Washington Monument in Washington, DC, where he spoke on \"God's Hope for America\" to 300,000 people. In 1975, the HSA-UWC held one of the largest peaceful gatherings in history, with 1.2 million people in Yeouido, South Korea.\n\nWith a tenfold increase in membership \"during the years 1972-74, the Unification Church emerged as a national movement in America.\" The movement held in New York the first of a series of conferences on \"Unified Science,\" with such famous scholars as Nicholas Kurti and W.V.O. Quine, bought the Belvedere estate at Tarrytown, NY and held there an \"International Training Session\" for disaffected students attracted from overseas, including John Waite who later broadcast on BBC Radio his memories of the event.\n\nAssisted by an organization called the Freedom Leadership Foundation Rev. Moon was introduced in 1973 to such American public figures as Senators Edward Kennedy, Hubert Humphrey, Strom Thurmond and James Buckley, and to Nguyen Van Thieu, President of South Vietnam. More publicity attended mass weddings (Blessing ceremony of the Unification Church) first conducted in the US in 1982. Participants later included Al Sharpton and Emmanuel Milingo, an archbishop of the Catholic church.\n\nIn the 1970s the Unification movement, along with some other new religious movements, became a target of the anti-cult movement. On the basis of theories that have not gained acceptance in mainline social science, \"anti-cult\" activists accused the movement of having \"brainwashed\" its members. At the same time, members reported that they were kidnapped and forcibly \"deprogrammed\" by those who wanted to pull them out of the movement.\n\nIn 1982, Moon was convicted in the United States of filing false federal income tax returns and conspiracy: see United States v. Sun Myung Moon. He served 13 months of the sentence at the Federal Correctional Institution, Danbury. The case was protested as a case of selective prosecution and a threat to religious freedom by, among others, Jerry Falwell, head of Moral Majority, Joseph Lowery, head of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, Harvey Cox a Professor of Divinity at Harvard, and Eugene McCarthy, United States Senator and former Democratic Party presidential candidate.\n\nStarting in the 1980s Moon instructed HSA-UWC members to take part in a program called \"Home Church\" in which they reached out to neighbors and community members through public service. In 1991 Moon announced that Um members should return to their hometowns and undertake apostolic work there. Massimo Introvigne, a scholar of new religious movements, said that this confirmed that full-time membership is no longer considered crucial to movement members.\n\nOn May 1, 1994 (the 40th anniversary of the founding of the HSA-UWC), Moon declared that the era of the HSA-UWC had ended and inaugurated a new organization: the Family Federation for World Peace and Unification (FFWPU) would include HSA-UWC members and members of other religious organizations working toward common goals, especially on issues of sexual morality and reconciliation between people of different religions, nations, and races. The FFWPU co-sponsored Blessing ceremonies in which thousands of couples from other churches and religions were given the marriage blessing previously given only to HSA-UWC members.\n\nIn 2000 the FFWPU co-sponsored the Million Family March, a rally in Washington D.C. to celebrate family unity and racial and religious harmony, along with the Nation of Islam.Louis Farrakhan was the main speaker at the event which was held on October 16, 2000; the fifth anniversary of the Million Man March, which was also organized by Farrakhan. FFWPU leader Dan Fefferman wrote to his colleagues acknowledging that Farrakhan's and Moon's views differed on multiple issues but shared a view of a \"God-centered family\".\n\nIn 2003, Korean FFWPU members started a political party in South Korea, \"The Party for God, Peace, Unification, and Home.\" An inauguration declaration stated the new party would focus on preparing for Korean reunification by educating the public about God and peace. A FFWPU official said that similar political parties would be started in Japan and the United States. Since 2003, the FFWPU-related Universal Peace Federation's Middle East Peace Initiative has been organizing group tours of Israel and Palestine to promote understanding, respect, and reconciliation among Jews, Muslims, and Christians.\n\nIn 2004, at a ceremony on March 23 in the Dirksen Senate Office Building, in Washington, D.C., Moon crowned himself with what was called the \"Crown of Peace.\" Lawmakers who attended included Senator Mark Dayton (D-Minn.), Representatives Roscoe Bartlett (R-Md.) and Elijah Cummings (D-Md.), as well as former Representative Walter Fauntroy (D-D.C.) . Key organizers of the event included George Augustus Stallings, Jr., a former Roman Catholic priest who had been married by Moon, and Michael Jenkins, the president of the Unification Church of the United States at that time. Rep. Danny K. Davis played an active role in the ceremony.\n\nOn August 15, 2012, Moon was reported to be gravely ill and was put on a respirator at the intensive care unit of St. Mary's Hospital at The Catholic University of Korea in Seoul. He was admitted on August 14, 2012, after suffering from pneumonia earlier in the month. He died there on September 2.\n\nThe future of the Unification movement and its theological and institutional legacy is uncertain.\n\nThe Unification movement is among the minority of new religious movements who have introduced their own unique religious texts. The \"Divine Principle\" or \"Exposition of the Divine Principle\" () is the main theological textbook of the movement. It was co-written by Moon and early disciple Hyo Won'eu and first published in 1966. A translation entitled \"Divine Principle\" was published in English in 1973.\n\nThe \"Divine Principle\" lays out the core of UC theology, and is held by its believers to have the status of holy scripture. Following the format of systematic theology, it includes (1) God's purpose in creating human beings, (2) the fall of man, and (3) restoration – the process through history by which God is working to remove the ill effects of the fall and restore humanity back to the relationship and position that God originally intended.\n\nJesus has a great importance in the teachings of the Unification movement, although its view of him differs from that of Nicene Christianity. Central to Unification teachings is the concept that fallen humanity can be restored to God only through Jesus the Messiah, who comes as a new Adam to become the new head of the human race, replacing the sinful parents, through whom mankind can be reborn into God's family. According to the \"Divine Principle\", Jesus of Nazareth is this Christ.\n\nIn 1980 Unification theologian Young Oon Kim wrote:\nThe Unification movement view of Jesus has been criticized by mainstream Christian authors and theologians. In their influential book \"The Kingdom of the Cults\" (first published in 1965), Walter Ralston Martin and Ravi K. Zacharias disagreed with the \"Divine Principle\" on the issues of the divinity of Christ, the virgin birth of Jesus, the Unification Church's belief that Jesus should have married and a literal resurrection of Jesus as well as a literal Second Coming. They add: \"Moon makes all men equal in 'divinity' to Jesus, thereby striking a blow at the uniqueness of Christ.\" \n\nThe \"Divine Principle\" responds to this criticism by saying:\nUnificationist theologian Young Oon Kim wrote and some members of the Unification movement believe that Zechariah was the father of Jesus based on the work of, English Christian theologian in the liberal Protestant tradition, Leslie Weatherhead.\n\nIndemnity, in the context of Unification theology, is a part of the process by which human beings and the world are restored to God's ideal. The concept of indemnity is explained at the start of the second half of the \"Divine Principle\", \"Introduction to Restoration\":\nThe \"Divine Principle\" goes on to explain three types of indemnity conditions. Equal conditions of indemnity pay back the full value of what was lost. The biblical verse \"life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth\" (Exod.21:23-24) is quoted as an example of an equal indemnity condition. Lesser conditions of indemnity provide a benefit greater than the price that is paid. Faith, baptism, and the eucharist are mentioned as examples of lesser indemnity conditions. Greater conditions of indemnity come about when a person fails in a lesser condition. In that case a greater price must be paid to make up for the earlier failure. Abraham's attempted sacrifice of his son Isaac (Gen. 22:1-18) and the Israelites' 40 years of wandering in the wilderness under Moses (Num.14:34) are mentioned as examples of greater indemnity conditions. The \"Divine Principle\" then explains that an indemnity condition must reverse the course by which the mistake or loss came about. Indemnity, at its core, is required of humans because God is pure, and purity cannot relate directly with impurity. Indemnification is the vehicle that allows a \"just and righteous\" God to work through mankind. Jesus' statement that God had forsaken him (Matt.27:46) and Christianity's history of martyrdom are mentioned as examples of this. The \"Divine Principle\" then states that human beings, not God or the angels, are the ones responsible for making indemnity conditions.\n\nIn 2005 scholars Daske and Ashcraft explained the concept of indemnity:\nOther Christian commentators have criticized the concept of indemnity as being contrary to the Christian doctrine of \"sola fide\". Radio and television evangelist Bob Larson said, \"Moon's doctrine of sinless perfection by 'indemnity', which can apply even to deceased ancestors, is a denial of the salvation by grace offering through Jesus Christ.\" Christian historian Ruth Tucker said: \"In simple language indemnity is salvation by works.\" Donald Tingle and Richard Fordyce, ministers with the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) who debated two Unification Church theologians in 1977, wrote: \"In short, indemnity is anything you want to make it, since you establish the conditions. The zeal and enthusiasm of the Unification Church members is not so much based on love for God as it is compulsion to indemnify one's own sins.\"\n\nThe relationship of the Unification movement and science has often been noted, by the news media and by scholars of religion. The \"Divine Principle\" calls for the unification of science and religion: \"Religion and science, each in their own spheres, have been the methods of searching for truth in order to conquer ignorance and attain knowledge. Eventually, the way of religion and the way of science should be integrated and their problems resolved in one united undertaking; the two aspects of truth, internal and external, should develop in full consonance.\" \n\nIn the 1970s and 1980s the Unification movement sponsored the International Conference on the Unity of the Sciences (ICUS), in order to promote the concept of the unity of science and religion. American news media have suggested that the conferences were also an attempt to improve the often controversial public image of the church. The first conference, held in 1972, had 20 participants; while the largest conference, in Seoul, South Korea in 1982, had 808 participants from over 100 countries. Participants in one or more of the conferences included Nobel laureates John Eccles (Physiology or Medicine 1963, who chaired the 1976 conference) and Eugene Wigner (Physics 1963). \n\nThe relationship of the Unification movement and science again came to public attention in 2002 with the publication of \"Icons of Evolution\", a popular book critical of the teaching of evolution written by member Jonathan Wells. Wells is a graduate of the Unification Theological Seminary and has been active with the Discovery Institute as an advocate for Intelligent design.\n\nA Unification funeral (or \"seungwha\") is a funeral ceremony for the purpose of aiding the deceased person's transition to the spirit world and to celebrate his or her life among family and friends.\n\nUnification movement scholars writing on the church's funeral customs cite the \"Divine Principle\" which says: \"Man, upon his death, after his life in the visible world, goes to the invisible world in a spiritual body, having taken off his 'clothes of flesh' (Job 10:11), and lives there forever.\" They also note that family and other human relationships continue after death. The Unification movement does not uphold belief in reincarnation or eternal damnation. Unification theologian Young Oon Kim writes: \n\nThe seungwha ceremony was introduced by Sun Myung Moon in 1984, at the time of the death of his son Heung Jin Moon. Members who had died prior to this were given traditional Christian funerals. When the new and more distinct format was ordained, the official church newspaper reported:\n\nThe ceremony itself consists of three parts: The Gwi Hwan Ceremony (or \"returning to joy\"), a farewell prayer service held by family members and close friends; the Seung Hwa Ceremony, (or \"ascension and harmony\"), a public ceremony celebrating the person's life featuring songs, testimonies, and an address most often by a church pastor; and the Won Jeun Ceremony (or \"returning home/to the palace\"), the burial service. It is emphasized that the ceremony should have a joyful atmosphere since it is a celebration of the person's life and his or her transition to the spirit world. White and light colored clothing, rather than the traditional black, is worn by participants.\n\nThe body is buried in the person's holy robe, with a copy of the \"Divine Principle\", and the coffin draped with the Unification flag. Cremation is discouraged in the Unification movement, although it is sometimes practiced especially in Japan where it is required by law. Unification cemeteries, or sections of existing facilities, have been established in South Korea, the United Kingdom and the United States.\n\nThe Unification movement is well known for its wedding or wedding vow renewal ceremony. It is given to engaged or married couples. Through it, members believe, the couple is removed from the lineage of sinful humanity and engrafted into God's sinless lineage. The Blessing ceremony was first held in 1961 for 36 couples in Seoul, South Korea by the Moons shortly after their own marriage in 1960. All the couples were members of the church. Rev. Moon matched all of the couples except 12 who were already married to each other before joining the church. Moon's practice of matching couples was very unusual in both Christian tradition and in modern Western culture and attracted much attention and controversy.\n\nLater Blessing ceremonies were larger in scale but followed the same pattern. All participants were HSA-UWC members and Moon matched most of the couples. In 1982 the first large scale Blessing (of 2,000 couples) outside of Korea took place in Madison Square Garden, New York City. In 1988, Moon matched 2,500 Korean members with Japanese members for a Blessing ceremony held in Korea, partly in order to promote unity between the two nations. In 1992 Sun Myung Moon gave the wedding blessing for 30,000 couples at the Seoul Olympic Stadium and for 13,000 at the Yankee Stadium.\n\nMary Farrell Bednarowski says that marriage is \"really the only sacrament\" in the Unification movement. Unificationists therefore view singleness as \"not a state to be sought or cultivated\" but as preparation for marriage. Pre-marital celibacy and marital faithfulness are emphasized. Adherents may be taught to \"abstain from intimate relations for a specified time after marriage.\" The church does not give its marriage blessing to same-sex couples. \nMoon has emphasized the similarity between Unification views of sexuality and evangelical Christianity, \"reaching out to conservative Christians in this country in the last few years by emphasizing shared goals like support for sexual abstinence outside of marriage, and opposition to homosexuality.\"\n\nThe Unification movement is sometimes said to be esoteric in that it keeps some of its doctrines secret from nonmembers, a practice that is sometimes called \"heavenly deception.\" In 1979, critics Tingle and Fordyce commented: \"How different the openness of Christianity is to the attitude of Reverend Moon and his followers who are often reluctant to reveal to the public many of their basic doctrines.\" Since the 1990s, many Unification texts that were formerly regarded as esoteric have been posted on the Family Federation for World Peace and Unification's official websites.\n\nIn the early 1960s John Lofland lived with HSA-UWC missionary Young Oon Kim and a small group of American members and studied their activities in trying to promote their beliefs and win new members. Lofland noted that most of their efforts were ineffective and that most of the people who joined did so because of personal relationships with other members, often family relationships. Lofland published his findings in 1964 as a doctoral thesis entitled \"The World Savers: A Field Study of Cult Processes\", and in 1966 in book form by Prentice-Hall as \".\"\n\nIn 1977 Frederick Sontag, a professor of philosophy at Pomona College and a minister in the United Church of Christ., spent 10 months visiting HSA-UWC members in North America, Europe, and Asia as well as interviewing Moon at his home in New York State. He reported his findings and observations in \"Sun Myung Moon and the Unification Church\", published by Abingdon Press. The book also provides an overview of Unification Church beliefs. In an interview with UPI Sontag compared the HSA-UWC with The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and said that he expected its practices to conform more to mainstream American society as its members become more mature. He added that he did not want to be considered an apologist but a close look at HSA-UWC's theology is important: \"They raise some incredibly interesting issues.\"\n\nIn 1984 Eileen Barker published \"The Making of a Moonie\" based on her seven-year study of HSA-UWC members in the United Kingdom and the United States. In 2006 Laurence Iannaccone of George Mason University, a specialist in the economics of religion, wrote that \"The Making of a Moonie\" was \"one of the most comprehensive and influential studies\" of the process of conversion to new religious movements. Australian psychologist Len Oakes and British psychiatry professor Anthony Storr, who have written rather critically about cults, gurus, new religious movements, and their leaders have praised \"The Making of a Moonie\". It was given the Distinguished Book Award for 1985 by the Society for the Scientific Study of Religion.\n\nIn 1987, scholars with American Psychological Association rejected the hypotheses of those who accused new religious movements (such as the HSA-UWC) of brainwashing and coercive persuasion, stating that those \"conclusions...cannot be said to be scientific in any meaningful sense\".\n\nIn 1998 Irving Louis Horowitz, sociologist, questioned the relationship between the HSA-UWC and scholars whom it paid to conduct research on its behalf.\n\nThe relationship between the Unification movement and Judaism has been marked by controversy. In 1976 the American Jewish Committee released a report by Rabbi A. James Rudin which stated that \"Divine Principle\" contained \"pejorative language, stereotyped imagery, and accusations of collective sin and guilt.\" In a news conference presented by the AJC and representatives of Catholic and Protestant churches, panelists stated that the text \"contained over 125 anti-Jewish references.\" They noted Moon's public then-recent condemnation of \"antisemitic and anti-Christian attitudes\", and called upon him to make a \"comprehensive and systematic removal\" of antisemitic and anti-Christian references in the \"Divine Principle\" as a demonstration of good faith.\n\nIn 1977 the HSA-UWC issued a rebuttal to the report, stating that it was neither comprehensive nor reconciliatory, but rather had a \"hateful tone\" and was filled with \"sweeping denunciations.\" It denied that the \"Divine Principle\" teaches antisemitism and gave detailed responses to 17 specific allegations contained in the AJC's report, stating that allegations were distortions of teaching and obscuration of real passage content or that the passages were accurate summaries of Jewish scripture or New Testament passages.\n\nIn 1984 Mose Durst, then the president of the Unification Church of the United States and himself a convert from Judaism, said that the Jewish community had been \"hateful\" in its response to the growth of the Unification movement, and placed blame both on the community's \"insecurity\" and on Unification Church members' \"youthful zeal and ignorance.\" Rudin, then the national interreligious affairs director of the American Jewish Committee, said that Durst's remarks were inaccurate and unfair and that \"hateful is a harsh word to use.\" In the same year Durst wrote in his autobiography: \"Our relations with the Jewish community have been the most painful to me personally. I say this with a heavy heart, since I was raised in the Jewish faith and am proud of my heritage.\"\n\nIn 1989 movement leaders Peter Ross and Andrew Wilson issued \"Guidelines for Members of The Unification Church in Relations with the Jewish People\" which stated: \"In the past there have been serious misunderstandings between Judaism and the Unification Church. In order to clarify these difficulties and guide Unification Church members in their relations with Jews, the Unification Church suggests the following guidelines.\"\n\nThe relationship between the Unification movement and mainstream Christianity has been marked by conflict and disagreement, as well as by cooperation at times. The movement's teachings are based on the Bible, but include new interpretations not found in mainstream Christian tradition. Mainstream Christianity is usually defined as those Christian churches which follow the Nicene Creed and includes the Roman Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, and most Protestant churches.\n\nFrom its beginning the Unification movement has claimed to be Christian and has tried to promote its teachings to mainstream Christian churches and organizations. The Unification Church in South Korea was labeled as heretical by Protestant churches in South Korea, including Moon's own Presbyterian Church. In the United States the church was rejected by ecumenical organizations as being non-Christian. The main objections against it were theological, especially because of the Unification Church's addition of material to the Bible and for its rejection of a literal Second Coming of Jesus. Protestant commentators have also criticized Unification Church teachings as being contrary to the Protestant doctrine of salvation by faith alone.\n\nThe \"Divine Principle\" includes new interpretations of the Bible not found in mainstream Christian traditions. From its beginning, the Unification movement claimed to be Christian and promoted its teachings to mainstream Christian churches and organizations. The HSA-UWC in Korea was labeled as heretical by Protestant churches in South Korea, including Moon's own Presbyterian Church. In the United States, the movement was rejected by ecumenical organizations as being non-Christian. The main objections were theological, especially because of the movement's addition of material to the Bible.\n\nProtestant Christian commentators have also criticized Unification teachings as contrary to the Protestant doctrine of \"sola fide\". In their influential book \"The Kingdom of the Cults\" (first published in 1965), Walter Ralston Martin and Ravi K. Zacharias disagreed with the \"Divine Principle\" on the issues of Christology, the virgin birth of Jesus, the movement's belief that Jesus should have married, the necessity of the crucifixion of Jesus, and a literal resurrection of Jesus as well as a literal Second Coming.\n\nIn 1974 Moon founded the Unification Theological Seminary, in Barrytown, New York, partly in order to improve relations of the movement with other churches. Professors from other denominations, including a Methodist minister, a Presbyterian, and a Roman Catholic priest, as well as a rabbi, were hired to teach religious studies to the students, who were being trained as leaders in the movement.\n\nIn 1977, Unification member Jonathan Wells, who later became well known as the author of the popular Intelligent Design book \"Icons of Evolution\", defended Unification theology against what he said were unfair criticisms by the National Council of Churches. That same year Frederick Sontag, a professor of philosophy at Pomona College and a minister in the United Church of Christ, published \"Sun Myung Moon and the Unification Church\" which gave an overview of the movement and urged Christians to take it more seriously.\n\nIn 1982, Moon was imprisoned in the United States after being found guilty by a jury of willfully filing false Federal income tax returns and conspiracy. (See: United States vs. Sun Myung Moon) HSA-UWC members launched a public-relations campaign. Booklets, letters and videotapes were mailed to approximately 300,000 Christian leaders in the United States. Many of them signed petitions protesting the government's case. Among the American Christian leaders who spoke out in defense of Moon were conservative Jerry Falwell, head of Moral Majority, and liberal Joseph Lowery, head of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference. The American Baptist Churches in the U.S.A, the National Council of Churches, the National Black Catholic Clergy Caucus, and the Southern Christian Leadership Conference filed briefs in support of Moon.\n\nIn the 1980s the Unification movement sent thousands of American ministers from other churches on trips to Japan and South Korea to inform them about Unification teachings. At least one minister was dismissed by his congregation for taking part. In 1994 the church had about 5,000 members in Russia and came under criticism from the Russian Orthodox Church. In 1997, the Russian government passed a law requiring the movement and other non-Russian religions to register their congregations and submit to tight controls.\n\nIn 1995 the Unification movement related organization the Women's Federation for World Peace indirectly contributed $3.5 million to help Baptist Liberty University which at that time was in financial difficulty. This was reported in the United States news media as an example of closer relationships between the movement and conservative Christian congregations.\n\nIn 2001, the Unification movement came into conflict with the Roman Catholic Church when Catholic archbishop Emmanuel Milingo and Maria Sung, a 43-year-old Korean acupuncturist, married in a Blessing ceremony, presided over by Rev. and Mrs. Moon. Following his marriage the Archbishop was called to the Vatican by Pope John Paul II, where he was asked not to see his wife anymore, and to move to a Capuchin monastery. Sung went on a hunger strike to protest their separation. This attracted much media attention. Milingo is now an advocate of the removal of the requirement for celibacy by priests in the Catholic Church. He is the founder of Married Priests Now!. Archbishop George Augustus Stallings, Jr., also a former Catholic priest, who had founded his own Imani Temple African-American Catholic Congregation, is also a supporter of the organization.\n\nIn 2003 Moon began his \"tear down\", or \"take down the cross\" campaign. The campaign was begun in the belief that the cross is a reminder of Jesus' pain and has been a source of division between people of different faiths. The campaign included a burial ceremony for the cross and a crown to be put in its place. The American Clergy Leadership Conference (ACLC), an interfaith group founded by Moon, spearheaded the effort, calling the cross a symbol of oppression and superiority.\n\nThe relationship between the Unification movement and Islam has often been noted, both by scholars and the news media. The \"Divine Principle\" lists the Muslim world as one of the world's four major divisions (the others being East Asia, Hindu, and Christendom). In 1997, Louis Farrakhan, the leader of the Nation of Islam, a Black Muslim organization, served as a coofficiator at a Blessing Ceremony presided over by Moon and Han. In 2000 the Church and the Nation of Islam co-sponsored the Million Family March, a rally in Washington, D.C., to celebrate family unity and racial and religious harmony.\n\nUnification movement support for Islamist anti-communists came to public attention in 1987 when church member Lee Shapiro was killed in Afghanistan during the Soviet–Afghan War while filming a documentary. The resistance group they were traveling with reported that they had been ambushed by military forces of the Soviet Union or the Afghan government. However, the details have been questioned, partly because of the poor reputation of the group's leader, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar.\n\nIn 1997, the \"Washington Report on Middle East Affairs\" (which is critical of United States and Israeli policies), praised the Unification movement owned newspaper, \"The Washington Times\" and the \"Times\" sister publication \"The Middle East Times\" (along with \"The Christian Science Monitor\" owned by the Church of Christ, Scientist) for their objective and informative coverage of Islam and the Middle East, while criticizing the \"Times\" generally pro-Israel editorial policy. The \"Report\" suggested that these newspapers, being owned by religious organizations, were less influenced by pro-Israel pressure groups in the United States.\n\nIn 1997, Louis Farrakhan, the leader of The Nation of Islam, served as a \"co-officiator\" at a blessing ceremony presided over by Sun Myung Moon and Hak Ja Han. In 2000 the FFWPU co-sponsored the Million Family March, a rally in Washington D.C. to celebrate family unity and racial and religious harmony, along with the Nation of Islam. Farrakhan was the main speaker at the event which was held on October 16, 2000; the fifth anniversary of the Million Man March, which was also organized by Farrakhan. Unification Church leader Dan Fefferman wrote to his colleagues acknowledging that Farrakhan's and Moon's views differed on multiple issues but shared a view of a \"God-centered family\". In 2007 Rev and Mrs Moon sent greetings to Farrakhan while he was recovering from cancer, saying: \"We send love and greetings to Minister Farrakhan and Mother Khadijah.\"\n\nIn the 1990s and 2000s the Unification movement made public statements claiming communications with the spirits of religious leaders including Muhammad and also Confucius, the Buddha, Jesus, and Augustine, as well as political leaders such as Karl Marx, Friedrich Engels, Lenin, Joseph Stalin, Leon Trotsky, Mao Zedong, and many more. This was reported to have distanced the movement from Islam as well as from mainstream Christianity. From 2001 to 2009 the Unification movement owned the American Life TV Network (now known as Youtoo TV), which in 2007 broadcast George Clooney's documentary, \"A Journey to Darfur\", which was harshly critical of Islamists in Darfur, the Republic of Sudan. It released the film on DVD in 2008 and announced that proceeds from its sale would be donated to the International Rescue Committee. In his 2009 autobiography Moon praised Islam and expressed the hope that there would be more understanding between different religious communities. In 2011 representatives of the Unification Church took part in an international seminar held in Taiwan by the Muslim World League. The purpose of the seminar was said to be to encourage inter-faith dialogue and discourage terrorism.\n\nIn 2009 the FFWPU held an interfaith event in the Congress of the Republic of Peru. Former President of the Congress Marcial Ayaipoma and other notable politicians were called \"Ambassadors for Peace\" of the Unification Church. In 2010, the church built a large interfaith temple in Seoul. Author Deepak Chopra was the keynote at an interfaith event of the Unification Church cohosted with the United Nations at the Headquarters of the United Nations. In 2011, an interfaith event was held in the National Assembly of Thailand, the President of the National Assembly of Thailand attended the event. In 2012, the Unification Church-affiliated Universal Peace Federation held an interfaith dialogue in Italy that was cosponsored by United Nations. That year, Unification movement affiliated Universal Peace Federation held an interfaith program for representatives of 12 various religions and confessions in the hall of the United Nations General Assembly. The President of the United Nations General Assembly, the Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations, the Permanent Observer of the Holy See to the United Nations and other UN officials spoke.\n\nIn the 1940s, Moon cooperated with Communist Party members in the Korean independence movement against Imperial Japan. However, after the Korean War (1950–1953), he became an outspoken anti-communist. In 1964, he founded the Korean Culture and Freedom Foundation, a public diplomacy agency which promoted the interests of South Korea and sponsored Radio Free Asia. Former U.S. Presidents Harry S. Truman, Dwight D. Eisenhower, and Richard Nixon were honorary presidents or directors at various times.\n\nIn 1972, Moon predicted the decline of communism, based on the teachings of the \"Divine Principle\": \"After 7,000 biblical years—6,000 years of restoration history plus the millennium, the time of completion—communism will fall in its 70th year. Here is the meaning of the year 1978. Communism, begun in 1917, could maintain itself approximately 60 years and reach its peak. So 1978 is the border line and afterward communism will decline; in the 70th year it will be altogether ruined. This is true. Therefore, now is the time for people who are studying communism to abandon it.\" In 1973, he called for an \"automatic theocracy\" to replace communism and solve \"every political and economic situation in every field.\"\n\nIn 1974, Moon asked members in the United States to support President Richard Nixon during the Watergate scandal when Nixon was being pressured to resign his office. They prayed and fasted in support of Nixon for three days in front of the United States Capitol, under the motto: \"Forgive, Love and Unite.\" On February 1, 1974, Nixon publicly thanked them for their support and officially received Moon. This brought the movement into widespread public and media attention. In 1976, church president Neil Albert Salonen met with Senator Bob Dole to defend the HSA–UWC against charges made by its critics, including parents of some members.\n\nIn 1976, Moon established News World Communications, an international news media conglomerate which publishes \"The Washington Times\" newspaper in Washington D.C. and newspapers in South Korea, Japan, and South America, partly in order to promote political conservatism. According to \"The Washington Post\": \"...the \"Times\" was established by Moon to combat communism and be a conservative alternative to what he perceived as the liberal bias of The Washington Post.\" Bo Hi Pak, called Moon's \"right-hand man\", was the founding president and the founding chairman of the board. Moon asked Richard L. Rubenstein, a controversial rabbi and college professor who had written on the Holocaust, to join its board of directors. \"The Washington Times\" has often been noted for its generally pro-Israel editorial policies. In 2002, during the 20th anniversary party for the \"Times\", Moon said, \"The \"Washington Times\" will become the instrument in spreading the truth about God to the world.\"\n\nIn 1977, the Subcommittee on International Organizations of the Committee on International Relations, of the United States House of Representatives, found that the South Korean intelligence agency, the KCIA, had used the movement to gain political influence with the United States and that some members had worked as volunteers in Congressional offices. Together they founded the Korean Cultural Freedom Foundation, a nonprofit organization which acted as a public diplomacy campaign for the Republic of Korea. The committee also investigated possible KCIA influence on the Unification Church's campaign in support of Nixon.\n\nIn 1980, members founded CAUSA International, an anti-communist educational organization based in New York City. In the 1980s, it was active in 21 countries. In the United States, it sponsored educational conferences for evangelical and fundamentalist Christian leaders as well as seminars and conferences for Senate staffers, Hispanic Americans and conservative activists. In 1986, CAUSA International sponsored the documentary film \"Nicaragua Was Our Home\", about the Miskito Indians of Nicaragua and their persecution at the hands of the Nicaraguan government. It was filmed and produced by USA-UWC member Lee Shapiro, who later died while filming with anti-Soviet forces during the Soviet–Afghan War.\nIn 1980, members in Washington, D.C. disrupted a protest rally against the United States military draft. In 1981, the Appellate Division of New York State Supreme Court ruled that the HSA–UWC was not entitled to property tax exemptions on its New York City properties since its primary purpose was political, not religious. In 1982, this ruling was overturned by the New York State Supreme Court itself, which ruled that it should be considered a religious organization for tax purposes.\n\nIn 1983, some American members joined a public protest against the Soviet Union over its shooting down of Korean Airlines Flight 007. In 1984, the HSA–UWC founded the Washington Institute for Values in Public Policy, a Washington D.C. think tank that underwrites conservative-oriented research and seminars at Stanford University, the University of Chicago, and other institutions. In the same year, member Dan Fefferman founded the International Coalition for Religious Freedom in Virginia, which is active in protesting what it considers to be threats to religious freedom by governmental agencies. In August 1985, seven years before the fall of Soviet Union, the Professors World Peace Academy, an organization founded by Moon, sponsored a conference in Geneva to debate the theme \"The situation in the world after the fall of the communist empire.\"\n\nIn April 1990, Moon visited the Soviet Union and met with President Mikhail Gorbachev. Moon expressed support for the political and economic transformations underway in the Soviet Union. At the same time, the movement was expanding into formerly communist nations. In 1991, he met with Kim Il Sung, the North Korean President, to discuss ways to achieve peace on the Korean peninsula, as well as on international relations, tourism, and other topics. In 1994, Moon was officially invited to the funeral of Kim Il Sung, in spite of the absence of diplomatic relations between North Korea and South Korea. \nIn 1994, \"The New York Times\" recognized the movement's political influence, saying it was \"a theocratic powerhouse that is pouring foreign fortunes into conservative causes in the United States.\" In 1998, the Egyptian newspaper \"Al-Ahram\" criticized Moon's \"ultra-right leanings\" and suggested a personal relationship with conservative Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu.\n\nIn 1995, the former U.S. President George H. W. Bush and his wife, Barbara Bush, spoke at a FFWPU event in the Tokyo Dome. \"If as president I could have done one thing to have helped the country more,\" Mr. Bush told the gathering, \"it would have been to do a better job in finding a way, either through speaking out or through raising a moral standard, to strengthen the American family.\" Hak Ja Han, the main speaker, credited her husband with bringing about Communism's fall and declared that he must save America from \"the destruction of the family and moral decay.\"\n\nIn 2000, Moon founded the World Association of Non-Governmental Organizations (WANGO), which describes itself as \"a global organization whose mission is to serve its member organizations, strengthen and encourage the non-governmental sector as a whole, increase public understanding of the non-governmental community, and provide the mechanism and support needed for NGOs to connect, partner, and multiply their contributions to solve humanity's basic problems.\" However, it has been criticized for promoting conservatism in contrast to some of the ideals of the United Nations.\n\nIn 2003, Korean FFWPU members started a political party in South Korea. It was named \"The Party for God, Peace, Unification, and Home.\" In an inauguration declaration, the new party said it would focus on preparing for the reunification of South and North Korea by educating the public about God and peace. A church official said that similar political parties would be started in Japan and the United States.\n\nMoon was a member of the Honorary Committee of the Unification Ministry of the Republic of Korea. The church member Jae-jung Lee had been once a unification minister of the Republic of Korea. Another, Ek Nath Dhakal, is a member of the Nepalese Constituent Assembly, and a first Minister for Co-operatives and Poverty Alleviation Ministry of the Government of Nepal. In 2016, a study sponsored by the Unification Theological Seminary found that American members were divided in their choices in the 2016 United States presidential election, with the largest bloc supporting Senator Bernie Sanders.\n\nThe Unification movement has had a complex relationship with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (North Korea). After the defeat of Japan (in the Second World War) in 1945, Korea was divided between Soviet and American occupation forces. In 1948 the Republic of Korea was established in the south and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea in the north, usually referred to as South Korea and North Korea. The government of North Korea followed Stalinist policies and sought to discourage free religious activities.\nIn 1946, Moon was living in Pyongyang, the capital of North Korea. Pyongyang was the center of Christian activity in Korea until 1945. From the late forties 166 priests and other religious figures were killed or disappeared in concentration camps, including Francis Hong Yong-ho, bishop of Pyongyang and all monks of Tokwon abbey. No Catholic priest survived the persecution, all churches were destroyed and the government never allowed any foreign priest to set up in North Korea. Moon was arrested by the North Korean authorities on allegations of spying for South Korea and given a five-year sentence to the Hŭngnam labor camp. In 1950, during the Korean War, he escaped and fled to Pusan, South Korea.\nMoon's teachings were strongly anti-communist and viewed the Cold War between democracy and communism as the final conflict between God and Satan, with divided Korea as its primary front line. Soon after its founding the Unification movement began supporting anti-communist organizations, including the World League for Freedom and Democracy founded in 1966 in Taipei, Republic of China (Taiwan), by Chiang Kai-shek, and the Korean Culture and Freedom Foundation, an international public diplomacy organization which also sponsored Radio Free Asia. In 1975 Moon spoke at a government sponsored rally against potential North Korean military aggression on Yeouido Island in Seoul to an audience of around 1 million.\nIn the late 1980s, when the Soviet Union was embarking on political and economic reform, it began demanding payment from North Korea for past and current aid—amounts North Korea could not repay. With the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991, trade between the two countries ceased altogether and the North Korean economy collapsed. Without Soviet aid, the flow of inputs to the North Korea agricultural sector ended, and the government proved too inflexible to respond. As a result, food production decreased precipitously. By 1994, the North Korean famine was underway. Estimates of the death toll vary widely. Out of a total population of approximately 22 million, somewhere between 240,000 and 3,500,000 people died from starvation or hunger-related illnesses, with the deaths peaking in 1997. Initial assistance to North Korea started as early as 1990, with small-scale support from religious groups in South Korea and assistance from UNICEF. In August 1995, North Korea made an official request for humanitarian aid and the international community responded accordingly, including South Korea, the United States, Japan, and China.\nIn 1991, Moon traveled to North Korea to meet with its president, Kim Il-sung. In 1992, Kim gave his first and only interview with the Western news media to \"Washington Times\" reporter Josette Sheeran (who later became Executive Director of the United Nations World Food Programme). In 1994, Moon was officially invited to Kim's funeral, in spite of the absence of diplomatic relations between North Korea and South Korea.\nIn 1998, Unification movement-related businesses launched operations in North Korea with the approval of the government of South Korea, which had prohibited business relationships between North and South before. In 2000, the church-associated business group Tongil Group founded Pyeonghwa Motors in the North Korean port of Nampo, in cooperation with the North Korean government. It was the first automobile factory in North Korea.\nDuring the presidency of George W. Bush, Dong Moon Joo, a Unification movement member and then president of \"The Washington Times\", undertook unofficial diplomatic missions to North Korea in an effort to improve its relationship with the United States. Joo was born in North Korea and is a citizen of the United States.\nIn 2003, Korean Unification movement members started a political party in South Korea. It was named \"The Party for God, Peace, Unification and Home\". In its inauguration declaration, the new party said it would focus on preparing for Korean reunification by educating the public about God and peace. Moon was a member of the Honorary Committee of the Unification Ministry of the Republic of Korea. Church member Jae-jung Lee was a Unification Minister of the Republic of Korea.\nIn 2010, in Pyongyang, to mark the 20th anniversary of Moon's visit to Kim Il-sung, \"de jure\" President Kim Yong-nam hosted Moon's son Hyung Jin Moon, then the president of the Unification Church, in his official residence. At that time, Hyung Jin Moon donated 600 tons of flour to the children of Jeongju, the birthplace of Sun Myung Moon.\nIn 2012, Moon was posthumously awarded North Korea's National Reunification Prize. On the first anniversary of Moon's death, North Korean president Kim Jong-un expressed condolences to Han and the family, saying: \"Kim Jong-un prayed for the repose of Moon, who worked hard for national concord, prosperity and reunification and world peace.\" In 2017, the Unification Church sponsored the International Association of Parliamentarians for Peace (IAPP)—headed by former Prime Minister of Nepal Madhav Kumar Nepal and former Minister of Peace and Reconstruction Ek Nath Dhakal—visited Pyongyang and had constructive talks with the North Korean Workers Party.\n\nAlthough Rev. Moon was commonly known as a religious figure, commentators have mentioned his belief in a literal Kingdom of God on earth to be brought about by human effort as a motivation for his establishment of multitudinous groups that are not strictly religious in their purposes. Moon was not directly involved with managing the day-to-day activities of the numerous organizations that he indirectly oversaw, yet all of them attribute the inspiration behind their work to his leadership and teachings. Others have said that one purpose of these non-sectarian organizations is to pursue social respectability. These organizations have sometimes been labeled \"front groups\", an expression which originally referred to Soviet supported organizations during the Cold War.\n\nThe Collegiate Association for the Research of Principles (CARP) is a collegiate organization founded by Moon and his followers in 1955, which promotes intercultural, interracial, and international cooperation through the Unification world view. J. Isamu Yamamoto states in \"Unification Church\": \"At times CARP has been very subtle about its association with the Unification Church, however, the link between the two has always been strong, since the purpose of both is to spread Moon's teachings.\"\n\nThe Family Peace Association, founded by Moon's eldest living son, Hyun Jin Moon. It has the mission: “To enlighten humanity by uplifting their spiritual consciousness through universal principles and values rooted in God-centered families.” Its founders are Hyun Jin Moon and Junsook Moon.\n\nThe Universal Peace Federation is an international organization which promotes religious freedom. \"Dialogue and Alliance\" is its journal published from Tarrytown, New York.\n\nThe Women's Federation for World Peace was founded in 1992 by Hak Ja Han. Its stated purpose is to encourage women to work more actively in promoting peace in their communities and greater society. It has members in 143 countries.\n\nHan has traveled the world speaking at conventions on the WFWP's behalf. In 1993 the WFWP held a conference in Tokyo, Japan at which the keynote speaker was former U.S. Vice President Dan Quayle's wife Marilyn Tucker Quayle, and in a speech at the event Han spoke positively of Mrs. Quayle's humanitarian work.\n\nIn 1993 Han traveled to 20 cities in the United States promoting the WFWP, as well as to 12 countries. At an event in Salt Lake City, Utah she told attendants: \"If a family is not centered on God's ideal of love, there will be conflict among the members of that family. Without God's love as an absolute center, such a family will ultimately break down. A nation of such families will also decline.\" Her 1993 speeches in the United States focused on increasing violence in the U.S., and the degradation of the family unit.\n\nIn 1995 the WFWP generated controversy when it indirectly contributed $3.5 million to help Liberty University, which at that time was in financial difficulty. This was reported in the United States news media as an example of closer relationships between the Unification Church and conservative Christian congregations. That same year former United States president George H. W. Bush spoke at several WFWP meetings in Japan, and at a related conference in Washington D.C.. There he was quoted by \"The New York Times\" as saying: \"If as president I could have done one thing to have helped the country more it would have been to do a better job in finding a way, either through speaking out or through raising a moral standard, to strengthen the American family.\"\n\nThe events in Japan drew protests from Japanese people who were wary of unorthodox religious groups. Bush's spokesperson Jane Becker stated \"We were satisfied that there was not a connection with the Unification Church, and based on the information we were given we felt comfortable speaking to this group.\" 50,000 people attended Bush's speech in Tokyo. The theme of the talks was \"family values\". In the half-hour speech, Bush said \"what really counts is faith, family and friends\". Bush also spoke on the importance of the relationship between Japan and the United States and its importance for world peace. Han spoke after Bush's speech and praised Moon, crediting him for the decline of communism and saying that he must save America from \"the destruction of the family and moral decay.\"\n\nIn 1999 the WFWP sponsored a conference in Malaysia in which religious and government leaders spoke on the need to strengthen education and support families, as well as the need for peace and understanding between ethnic and racial groups in the nations. In 2009 it co-sponsored, along with the Unification Church affiliated organization the Universal Peace Federation and the government of Taiwan, a conference in Taipei calling for Taiwan's greater participation in world affairs independent of the People's Republic of China. Taiwan's president, Ma Ying-jeou, spoke at the event. The WFWP has also been active in sponsoring various local charity and community events.\n\n\"Service For Peace (SFP)\" is a non-profit organization, founded in 2002 by the Unification Church leader Sun Myung Moon, to give opportunities to young people who wish to better themselves and their communities. As of April 2007, the organization had established chapters in North America, Central America, Caribbean, Europe, Asia, Africa and Oceania. SFP is active in communities and statewide. Colleges have recruited Service for Peace Campus Corps to benefit their fellow peers as well as the communities around them. Some SFP chapters have smaller initiatives designed to meet local needs. In the US, Service For Peace's Backpack Angel program supports students throughout Kentucky by providing backpacks and school supplies for children in need.\n\n\"International Conference on the Unity of the Sciences (ICUS)\" is a series of conferences formerly sponsored by the \"International Cultural Foundation\" and since 2017 by the Hyo Jeong International Foundation on the Unity of the Sciences (HJIFUS). The first conference, held in 1972, had 20 participants; while the largest conference, in Seoul, South Korea in 1982, had 808 participants from over 100 countries.\n\nParticipants in one or more of the conferences included Nobel laureates John Eccles (Physiology or Medicine 1963, who chaired the 1976 conference), \nEugene Wigner (Physics 1963), economist and political philosopher Friedrich Hayek, ecologist Kenneth Mellanby, Frederick Seitz, pioneer of solid state physics, Ninian Smart, President of the American Academy of Religion, and Holocaust theologian Richard Rubenstein, \n\nMoon believed that religion alone can not save the world, and his particular belief in the importance of the unity of science and religion was reportedly a motivation for the founding of the ICUS. American news media have suggested that the conferences were also an attempt to improve the often controversial Unification Church's public image.\n\nThe last two editions of the conference have focused on environmental issues, such as rising sea levels and water temperatures, food scarcity, renewable energy, and waste management. The theme in 2017, at ICUS XXIII, was \"Earth's Environmental Crisis and the Role of Science,\" with a similar theme following at ICUS XXIV, in 2018: \"Scientific Solutions to the Earth's Environmental Challenges.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMembers of the Unification movement own a number of businesses in various countries. In Eastern Europe Unification movement missionaries are using the church's business ties to win new converts. David Bromley, a sociologist at Virginia Commonwealth University, said: \"The corporate section is understood to be the engine that funds the mission of the church. The wealth base is fairly substantial. But if you were to compare it to the LDS Church or the Catholic Church or other churches that have massive landholdings, this doesn't look on a global scale like a massive operation.\"\n\nPyeonghwa Motors is an automobile manufacturer based in Seoul (South Korea) and owned by the movement. It is involved in a joint-venture with the North Korean Ryonbong General Corp. The joint venture produces two small cars under license from Fiat, and a pick-up truck and an SUV using complete knock down kits from Chinese manufacturer Dandong Shuguang. Pyeonghwa has the exclusive rights to car production, purchase, and sale of used cars in North Korea. However, most North Koreans are unable to afford a car. Because of the very small market for cars in the country, Pyeonghwa's output is reportedly very low. In 2003, only 314 cars were produced even though the factory had the facilities to produce up to 10,000 cars a year. Erik van Ingen Schenau, author of the book \"Automobiles Made in North Korea\", has estimated the company's total production in 2005 at not more than around 400 units.\n\nIn South Korea the Tongil Group was founded in 1963 by church founder Sun Myung Moon as a nonprofit organization which would provide revenue for the church. Its core focus was manufacturing but in the 1970s and 1980s it expanded by founding or acquiring businesses in pharmaceuticals, tourism, and publishing. In the 1990s Tongil Group suffered as a result of the 1997 Asian Financial Crisis. By 2004 it was losing money and was $3.6 billion in debt. In 2005 Sun Myung Moon's son, Kook-jin Moon was appointed chairman of Tongil Group. Among Tongil Group's chief holdings are: The Ilwha Company, which produces ginseng and related products; Ilshin Stone, building materials; and Tongil Heavy Industries, machine parts including hardware for the South Korean military. The Tongil Group funds the Tongil Foundation which supports Unification Church projects including schools and the Little Angels Children’s Folk Ballet of Korea.\n\nNews World Communications, is an international news media corporation. It was founded in New York City, in 1976, by Sun Myung Moon. Its first two newspapers, \"The News World\" (later renamed the \"New York City Tribune\") and the Spanish-language \"Noticias del Mundo,\" were published in New York from 1976 until the early 1990s. In 1982 \"The New York Times\" described News World as \"the newspaper unit of the Unification Church.\" Rev. Moon's son Hyun Jin Moon is its chairman of the board. News World Communications owns United Press International, \"The World and I\", \"Tiempos del Mundo\" (Latin America), \"The Segye Ilbo\" (South Korea), \"The Sekai Nippo\" (Japan), the \"Zambezi Times\" (South Africa), \"The Middle East Times\" (Egypt). Until 2008 it published the Washington D.C. based newsmagazine \"Insight on the News\". Until 2010, it owned the \"Washington Times\". On November 2, 2010, Sun Myung Moon and a group of former \"Times\" editors purchased the paper from News World.\n\nMaster Marine, a shipbuilding and fishing company in Alabama;International Seafood of Kodiak, Alaska; and True World Foods, which runs a major portion of the sushi trade in the USA. In 2011 Master Marine opened a factory in Las Vegas, Nevada to manufacture a 27-foot pleasure boat designed by Moon. \n\nIn the 1970s the Unification Church of the United States began making major real estate investments. Church buildings were purchased around the nation. In New York State the Belvedere Estate, the Unification Theological Seminary, and the New Yorker Hotel were purchased. The national headquarters of the church was established in New York City. In Washington D.C. the church purchased a church building from The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and in Seattle the historic Rolland Denny mansion for $175,000 in 1977.In 1991 Donald Trump criticized Unification Church real estate investments as possibly disruptive to communities. As of December 1994, Unification Church had invested $150 million in Uruguay. Members own the country's largest hotel, one of its leading banks, the second-largest newspaper and two of the largest printing plants. In 2008 church related real estate investment partnership USP Rockets LLC was active in Richmond, Virginia. In 2011 the church related National Hospitality Corporation sold the Sheraton National Hotel. U.S. Property Development Corporation, real estate investment\nYongpyong Resort, which hosted the alpine skiing events for the 2018 Winter Olympics and Paralympics.\n\nSince 2000, Moon has promoted the creation of an interreligious council at the United Nations as a check and balance to its political-only structure. Since then King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia and King Juan Carlos I of Spain hosted officially a program to promote the proposal. Moon's Universal Peace Federation is in \"special consultative status\" with the United Nations Economic and Social Council and a member of the UN Commission on Sustainable Development, a member of the United Nations Division for Palestinian Rights, a member of the United Nations Human Rights Council, a member of the UNHRC, a member of the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs and United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific.\nThree of Moon's non-governmental organizations (NGOs)—Universal Peace Federation, Women's Federation for World Peace and Service for Peace—are in consultative status with the United Nations Economic and Social Council.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1395647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1395647", "title": "World United Formosans for Independence", "text": "World United Formosans for Independence\n\nThe World United Formosans for Independence (), also known as WUFI, is an organization promoting Taiwan independence. It was established in 1970 by like-minded organizations in Canada, the U.S., Japan, Europe, and Taiwan. Its aim is to establish a Republic of Taiwan.\n\nPro-independence activist Ng Chiau-tong, who served as the Chairman of the WUFI from 1995 until 2011, died in office from complications of surgery on 17 November 2011.\n\n"}
