{"id": "6879462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6879462", "title": "2006 Ukrainian political crisis", "text": "2006 Ukrainian political crisis\n\nThe 2006 Parliamentary crisis in Ukraine started in March 2006 as a result of inconclusive parliamentary elections, and ended on 3 August 2006 with Viktor Yanukovych (as part of the Alliance of National Unity) being chosen as a Prime Minister to replace Yuriy Yekhanurov, who resigned right after the parliamentary elections.\n\nMany speculated that Bloc Yulia Tymoshenko (BYuT) might form a coalition with Our Ukraine party and the Socialist Party of Ukraine (SPU) to prevent the Party of Regions from gaining power. Yulia Tymoshenko solicited to become Prime Minister. However, negotiations with Our Ukraine and SPU faced many difficulties as the various blocs scrapped over posts and engaged in counter-negotiations with other groupings. Apparently President Viktor Yushchenko did not want Tymoshenko to become Prime Minister. Initially SPU's Oleksandr Moroz wanted the post of Chairman of the Verkhovna Rada.\n\nOn Wednesday 21 June 2006, the Ukrainian media reported that the three parties had finally reached a coalition agreement, which appeared to have ended nearly three months of political uncertainty.\n\nTymoshenko's nomination and confirmation as new Prime Minister was expected to be straightforward. However, the nomination was preconditioned on an election of her long-term rival Petro Poroshenko from Our Ukraine as the speaker of the parliament. Tymoshenko stated that she would vote for any speaker from the coalition. Within a few days after the coalition agreement had been signed, it became clear that the coalition members mistrusted each other, since they considered it to be a deviation from parliamentary procedures in order to hold a simultaneous vote on Poroshenko as the speaker and Tymoshenko as Prime Minister.\n\nThe Party of Regions announced an ultimatum to the coalition, demanding that the parliamentary procedures be observed, asking membership in parliamentary committees to be allocated in proportion to seats held by each fraction, chairmanship in certain Parliamentary committees as well as Governorships in the administrative subdivisions won by the Party of Regions. The Party of Regions complained the coalition agreement deprived the Party of Regions and the communists of any representation in the executive and leadership in parliamentary committees while in the local regional councils won by the Party of Regions, the coalition parties were locked out of all committees as well.\n\nMembers from the Party of Regions blocked the parliament from Thursday, 29 June through Thursday, 6 July.\n\nFollowing a surprise nomination of Moroz as the Rada Chairman and his subsequent election late on 6 July with the support of the Party of Regions, the \"Orange coalition\" collapsed (Poroshenko had withdrawn his candidacy and had urged Moroz to do the same on 7 July). After the creation of a large coalition of majority (the so-called Alliance of National Unity), led by the former prime minister Viktor Yanukovych and composed of the Party of Regions, Socialists and Communists, Viktor Yanukovych became Prime Minister. Whilst Tymoshenko immediately announced that her political force would be in opposition to the new government, after the signing of the Universal of National Unity Our Ukraine initially wanted to join this coalition and indeed five of its members where appointed Cabinet oMinisters in the coalition, but in October 2006 Our Ukraine joined the opposition. By November 2006 there five ministers where dismissed by parliament or withdrawn by Our Ukraine.\n\nFollowing the 2007 Ukrainian political crisis new elections were called and held in 2007.\n"}
{"id": "40185892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40185892", "title": "2013 Kerala solar panel scam", "text": "2013 Kerala solar panel scam\n\nIn 2013, a solar energy company, Team Solar, in Kerala, India, used two women to create political contacts with links even to the Chief Minister's office, duped several influential people to the tune of 70 lakhs  , by offering to make them business partners, or by offering to install solar power units for them, and receiving advance payments for the same. Team Solar was unsuccessful in lobbying Kerala Govt to get include in ANERT programmes.\n\nThe Team Solar Energy Company (Team Solar), floated by the main accused Biju Radhakrishnan and Saritha. S. Nair, directors of the company, allegedly collected advance amounts from large number of people and investors by offering to make them business partners, or in the guise of installing alternate sources of energy and failed to deliver the goods. The company awarded a \"Virgin Earth Golden Feather Environment Award\" to several prominent people of Kerala to gain media coverage and credibility. The scam came to light when one of the customers who had paid for the installation filed a case against the company. The arrangement has defrauded several agencies and people to the tune of crores of rupees and at least one lady actor was used as \"brand ambassador\" to lure gullible people. There were widespread protests across the state, mainly by Leftist youth groups, after an interview with an industrialist was aired on television, which alleged fraud by the company. The incident drew much attention because most of those who lost big money were all influential people, the women allegedly involved fueled the imagination/ jealousy of the depraved Malayalam Media and the alleged involvement of three officials from the office of the Chief Minister of Kerala, Oommen Chandy, who made several phone calls to Saritha. It caused great embarrassment to Chandy, who faced demands for his resignation; two of the officials involved in phone conversation, lost their positions. The total amount involved in the scam, calculated on the basis of complaints, is less than but the aggressive protests by Leftist political parties and the \"modus operandi\" used by the company has made the scam notorious.\n\nFive persons have been arrested in connection with this scam. The chief accused, Saritha Nair and one of the Chief Minister’s personal aides Tenny Joppan has been fired and arrested. The director of the Public Relations Department, who allegedly received Rs 500,000 from the Team Solar man, has been suspended and has gone underground fearing arrest.Other people accused in the case, who have been arrested include Biju Radhakrishnan, and Malayalam movie/TV actress and danseuse, Shalu Menon.\n\nBiju Radhakrishnan was already caught in a case pertaining to the murder of his wife Rashmi. However, despite having evidence of his involvement in the murder, he was not arrested\nAfter his arrest, at Coimbatore, by the Kollam Crime Branch CID, he admitted to Rashmi's murder by giving her poisoned liquor.\n\nSaritha Nair was a director of the Team Solar Renewable Energy Co. and an accomplice of the Biju Radhakrishnan in the Solar Scam. She was arrested on the complaint of one of the persons who she had defrauded, in Ambalapuzha\nShe later requested the Economic Offences court where her case is being heard, that she wanted to give a secret statement, which would help to broaden the scope of the investigation. Her attorney, Fenny Balakrishnan termed the revelations as very crucial and capable of changing the direction of the investigation. She was released on bail in February 2014. Her name reappeared in the news after her scandal video was released and went viral on social media including WhatsApp on 12 October 2014. On 2015 June 2 her short film Anthyakoodasha was released on YouTube, which has crossed 500k views as on 18 May 2016\nTelevision and film actress Shalu Menon, a close associate of Biju Radhakrishnan, initially denied any knowledge or relationship with Biju Radhakrishnan. Photographs showing the two of them posing together or Biju handing over keys to a new vehicle she had purchased recently were explained away, on TV, as pictures taken at his request. Later, she came under the scanner of the Police and was arrested upon concluding that she was also an accomplice to the scam and had used her popularity to entice customers into parting with their money. She was released on bail in August 2013.\n\nTenny, an aide and personal staff member of Kerala Chief Minister Oommen Chandy was arrested on charges of cheating, for aiding Biju Radhakrishnan and Saritha for defrauding a businessman, Sreedharan Nair, to the tune of 40 Lakh Indian Rupees. He was released on bail in August 2013.\n\nA Firoz, a government servant, surrendered himself on 18 July, after the court rejected his plea for anticipatory bail. He was accused of helping to dupe a builder of 4 million Rupees along with Biju and Saritha, by claiming one of them was an ADB official and they could arrange a contract with the ADB. He was suspended from service after his name surfaced as one of the accomplices of Biju.\n\nAt least four Kerala Cabinet ministers, three MLAs and hordes of government officials besides a junior Central Minister had been roped in by the women and their phone calls.\n\nAllegations against the Chief Minister Oommen Chandy have been raised, due to phone calls made by his personal staff and forged letters which were used by the fraudsters to defraud customers.\nThe issue snowballed when Sridharan Nair, a quarry owner, claimed that he had met the Chief Minister, at his office, along with Saritha, during which the Chief Minister encouraged investments in renewable energy. The Chief Minister refuted these claims on the floor of the Assembly, stating that the only time he met Sridharan Nair was as a representative of Quarry owners.\nThe allegations are being used by the opposition LDF as a reason to stall the proceedings of the Kerala Legislative Assembly and demand the resignation of the Kerala Chief Minister.\n\nMounting pressure on Kerala Chief Minister Oommen Chandy to tender for a judicial investigation and thereby his resignation over the solar scam, the CPI (M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) on 12,August 2013, had conducted an indefinite siege on the state secretariat which lasted for 30 hours. The siege was addressed by Former Prime Minister and Janata Dal (Secular) chief H.D Deve Gowda and CPI(M) General Secretary Prakash Karat. The activists of the LDF, who blocked three entry and exit gates of the Kerala secretariat and claimed that the fourth will be blocked later in that day. The Left Democratic Front in Kerala had demanded a judicial investigation in the scam,which was later allowed by the government which led to the conclusion of the siege.\n"}
{"id": "59216645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59216645", "title": "2018 vote of no confidence in the government of Nicola Zingaretti", "text": "2018 vote of no confidence in the government of Nicola Zingaretti\n\nOn 1 December 2018, a motion of no confidence in the government of Nicola Zingaretti tabled by Centre-right coalition was defeated 22 to 26, with one no-vote of Forza Italia and a few absent.\n\nAfter the Lazio regional election, 2018 it came to a hung parliament. The Centre-left coalition only won 25 of the 51 seats, but won the presidential election, just ahead of the center-right candidate Stefano Parisi with 32.9% to 31.2%. The Zingaretti's government is supported by two splits from Forza Italia (Pino Cangemi) and the League (Enrico Cavallari).\n\nIn the other regional elections in 2018 in the Lombardy, in Molise, the in Friuli-Venezia Giulia and in Trentino won the Centre-right coalition.\n\nOn November 22, the Centre-right parties announced the motion of no confidence.\n\nOn November 23, Sergio Pirozzi declared his support for the Motion of no confidence.\n\nOn November 29, Enrico Cavallari declared that he didn't support the Motion of no confidence, Claudio Fazzone the regional coordinator of Forza Italia sayed, that the motion can not be reached by Cavallari anymore and Pino Cangemi declared his support.\n\nOn December 1, the opposition failed with the vote of no confidence against Zingaretti, by the absence of Sergio Pirozzi, Pasquale Ciacciarelli (FI) and Enrico Cavallari and the no-vote of Laura Cartaginese (FI).\n"}
{"id": "4605436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4605436", "title": "Accessibility without Exclusion", "text": "Accessibility without Exclusion\n\nAccessibility without Exclusion (\"Partido Accesibilidad sin Exclusión, \"PASE\"\") is a political party in Costa Rica with a special focus on fighting for the rights of people with disabilities. PASE generally takes socially conservative stances, opposing LGBT rights, in vitro fertilization, and the separation of church and state.\n\nIn the 2006 general elections, the party won 1.59% of the legislative vote, gaining one seat in the legislature. In 2010, the party surged to 9.17% of the vote, winning four seats in the legislature and entering into coalition with the governing National Liberation Party. In 2014, the party's vote fell to 3.95%, and it lost all but one of its seats. In the next election, party's support dropped even further gaining only 0.38% and losing its only seat.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38128624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38128624", "title": "Banking lobby", "text": "Banking lobby\n\nThe Banking Lobby refers to the representatives from various firms and organizations seeking favorable terms from governments for big banks and other financial service companies through lobbying and advocacy groups.\n\nThe banking lobby generally opposes stricter government regulation of financial markets while tending to stress the importance of banks in the economy. Some are concerned, however, that they may seek terms that do not necessarily increase performance of the economy as a whole, but only benefit the large banks.\n\nIn the US the finance, real estate, and insurance industries reportedly spent a collective $6.8 Billion from 1998 through 2011, far more than any other lobbying sector. Since the banking industry holds large cash reserves, they have available funds to provide their lobbying representatives to influence policymakers in Washington. Some are concerned that this may lead to new policy being heavily favored in the banks' favor.\n\nIn the US the Financial Services Roundtable is the most noted organization involved in bank lobbying with members from the 100 largest banks and financial firms. The groups mission is to \"protect and promote the economic vitality and integrity of its members and the United States financial system.\" The 2012 appointed CEO of the Financial Services Roundtable, Tim Pawlenty, is a well-connected politician who had plans to run in the United States presidential election, 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "824524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=824524", "title": "Carmen Group", "text": "Carmen Group\n\nCarmen Group is a lobbying firm in Washington, D.C.\n\nThe firm was founded by David Carmen in 1985. He has advised many United States Governors, Mayors, Congressmen and Senators on policy and served as a political advisor to former Presidents Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush. He was appointed to the Presidential Rank Review Board which recommends to President Bush outstanding career members of the Senior Executive Service for the government's top commendation.\n\nThe firm is a bipartisan firm whose staff members personally advocate for both Democratic and Republican parties. Carmen Group is recognized as a top 20 government relations firm ranked according to Lobbying Disclosure Act filings. Carmen Group's clients include State Departments of Transportation, hospitals, Historically Black Universities, water districts, trade unions, marketers, a state government in Nigeria, and international organizations.\n\nThe firm donated office space to the Bush/Clinton Katrina fund, supports Project 312 of the national \"I Have a Dream\" foundation and provides two annual merit scholarships at American University's School of Public Policy.\n\n"}
{"id": "18908343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18908343", "title": "Civil Service Commission (United Kingdom)", "text": "Civil Service Commission (United Kingdom)\n\nThe Civil Service Commission regulates recruitment to the United Kingdom Civil Service, providing assurance that appointments are on merit after fair and open competition, and hears appeals under the Civil Service Code. The Commission is independent of Government and the Civil Service.\n\nThe Civil Service Commission was established by Gladstone through an order in council on 21 May 1855 following publication of the Northcote–Trevelyan Report by Charles Trevelyan and Stafford Northcote that advocated the decoupling of appointments of senior civil servants from ministers to insure the impartiality of the Civil Service.\n\nFollowing a report of the Committee on Standards in Public Life, \"Defining the Boundaries within the Executive: Ministers, special advisers and the permanent Civil Service\" in 2003, the appointment of the First Civil Service Commissioner is made by Government after consultation with the leaders of the main opposition parties. They are then appointed by the Queen under Royal Prerogative. The First Civil Service Commissioner is appointed for a fixed term of five years, although another Commissioner may act as an interim First Commissioner when necessary.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38443689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38443689", "title": "Communist society", "text": "Communist society\n\nIn Marxist thought, communist society or the communist system is the type of society and economic system postulated to emerge from technological advances in the productive forces, representing the ultimate goal of the political ideology of Communism. A communist society is characterized by common ownership of the means of production with free access to the articles of consumption and is classless and stateless, implying the end of the exploitation of labour.\n\nCommunism is a specific stage of socioeconomic development predicated upon a superabundance of material wealth, which is postulated to arise from advances in production technology and corresponding changes in the social relations of production. This would allow for distribution based on need and social relations based on freely-associated individuals.\n\nThe term \"communist society\" should be distinguished from the Western concept of the \"communist state\", the latter referring to a state ruled by a party which professes a variation of Marxism–Leninism.\n\nA communist economic system would be characterized by advanced productive technology that enables material abundance, which in turn would enable the free distribution of most or all economic output and the holding of the means of producing this output in common. In this respect communism is differentiated from socialism, which, out of economic necessity, restricts access to articles of consumption and services based on one's contribution.\n\nIn further contrast to previous economic systems, communism would be characterized by the holding of natural resources and the means of production in common as opposed to them being privately owned (as in the case of capitalism) or owned by public or cooperative organizations that similarly restricts their access (as in the case of socialism). In this sense, communism involves the \"negation of property\" insofar as there would be little economic rationale for exclusive control over production assets in an environment of material abundance.\n\nThe fully developed communist economic system is postulated to develop from a preceding socialist system. Marx held the view that socialism—a system based on social ownership of the means of production—would enable progress toward the development of fully developed communism by further advancing productive technology. Under socialism, with its increasing levels of automation, an increasing proportion of goods would be distributed freely.\n\nA communist society would free individuals from long working hours by first automating production to an extent that the average length of the working day is reduced and second by eliminating the exploitation inherent in the division between workers and owners. A communist system would thus free individuals from alienation in the sense of having one's life structured around survival (making a wage or salary in a capitalist system), which Marx referred to as a transition from the \"realm of necessity\" to the \"realm of freedom.\" As a result, a communist society is envisioned as being composed of an intellectually-inclined population with both the time and resources to pursue its creative hobbies and genuine interests, and to contribute to creative social wealth in this manner. Karl Marx considered \"true richness\" to be the amount of time one has at his disposal to pursue one's creative passions. Marx's notion of communism is in this way radically individualistic.\n\nMarx's concept of the \"realm of freedom\" goes hand-in-hand with his idea of the ending of the division of labor, which would not be required in a society with highly automated production and limited work roles.\n\nIn a communist society, economic necessity and relations would cease to determine cultural and social relations. As scarcity is eliminated, alienated labor would cease and people would be free to pursue their individual goals.\n\nMarx and Engels maintained that a communist society would have no need for the state as it exists in contemporary capitalist society. The capitalist state mainly exists to enforce hierarchical economic relations, to enforce the exclusive control of property, and to regulate capitalistic economic activities—all of which would be non-applicable to a communist system.\n\nEngels noted that in a socialist system the primary function of public institutions will shift from being about the creation of laws and the control of people into a technical role as an administrator of technical production processes, with a decrease in the scope of traditional politics as scientific administration overtakes the role of political decision-making. Communist society is characterized by democratic processes, not merely in the sense of electoral democracy, but in the broader sense of open and collaborative social and workplace environments.\n\nMarx never clearly specified whether or not he thought a communist society would be just; other thinkers have speculated that he thought communism would transcend justice and create society without conflicts, thus, without the needs for rules of justice.\n\nMarx also wrote that between capitalist and communist society, there would be a transitory period known as the dictatorship of the proletariat. During this preceding phase of societal development, capitalist economic relationships would gradually be abolished and replaced with socialism. Natural resources would become public property, while all manufacturing centers and workplaces would become socially owned and democratically managed. Production would be organized by scientific assessment and planning, thus eliminating what Marx called the \"anarchy in production\". The development of the productive forces would lead to the marginalization of human labor to the highest possible extent, to be gradually replaced by automated labor.\n\nMany aspects of a communist economy have emerged in recent decades in the form of open-source software and hardware, where source code and thus the means of producing software is held in common and freely accessible to everyone; and to the processes of peer production where collaborative work processes produce freely available software that does not rely on monetary valuation. Michel Bauwens juxtaposes open source and peer production with \"market production\".\n\nRay Kurzweil posits that the goals of communism will be realized by advanced technological developments in the 21st century, where the intersection of low manufacturing costs, material abundance and open-source design philosophies will enable the realization of the maxim \"from each according to his ability, to each according to his needs\".\n\nThe communist economic system was officially enumerated as the ultimate goal of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union in its party platform. According to the 1986 Programme of the CPSU:\nIn Vladimir Lenin's political theory, a classless society would be a society controlled by the direct producers, organized to produce according to socially managed goals. Such a society, Lenin suggested, would develop habits that would gradually make political representation unnecessary, as the radically democratic nature of the Soviets would lead citizens to come to agree with the representatives' style of management. Only in this environment, Lenin suggested, could the state wither away, ushering in a period of stateless communism. \n\nIn Soviet ideology, Marx's concepts of the \"lower and higher phases of communism\" articulated in the \"Critique of the Gotha Program\" were reformulated as the stages of \"socialism\" and \"communism\". The Soviet state claimed to have begun the phase of \"socialist construction\" during the implementation of the first Five-Year Plans during the 1930s, which introduced a centrally planned, nationalized/collectivized economy. The 1962 Program of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, published under the leadership of Nikita Khrushchev, claimed that socialism had been firmly established in the USSR, and that the state would now progress to the \"full-scale construction of communism\", although this may be understood to refer to the \"technical foundations\" of communism more so than the withering away of the state and the division of labor per se. However, even in the final edition of its program before the party's dissolution, the CPSU did not claim to have fully established communism, instead claiming that the society was undergoing a very slow and gradual process of transition.\n\n\"The Culture\" novels by Iain M Banks are centered on a communist post-scarcity economy where technology is advanced to such a degree that all production is automated, and there is no use for money or property (aside from personal possessions with sentimental value). Humans in the Culture are free to pursue their own interests in an open and socially-permissive society. The society has been described by some commentators as \"communist-bloc\" or \"anarcho-communist\". Banks' close friend and fellow science fiction writer Ken MacLeod has said that The Culture can be seen as a realization of Marx's communism, but adds that \"however friendly he was to the radical left, Iain had little interest in relating the long-range possibility of utopia to radical politics in the here and now. As he saw it, what mattered was to keep the utopian possibility open by continuing technological progress, especially space development, and in the meantime to support whatever policies and politics in the real world were rational and humane.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48924843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48924843", "title": "Condominiums in Canada", "text": "Condominiums in Canada\n\nOne in eight Canadian households lived in a residential condominium dwellings, mostly located in a few census metropolitan areas according to Statistics Canada Condominiums exist throughout Canada, although condominiums are most frequently found in the larger cities. \"Condominium\" is a legal term used in most provinces of Canada. in British Columbia, it is referred to as \"strata title\" and in Quebec, the term \"divided co-property\" (French: copropriété divisée) is used, although the colloquial name remains \"condominium\".\n\nWith regular condominiums, the unit owner usually owns the internal unit space and a share of the corporation; the corporation owns the exterior of the building land and common area; in the case of a \"freehold condominium\" the owner owns the land and building and the corporation owns common shared roadways and amenities. The \"Canadian Condominium Institute\" is a non-profit association of condominium owners and corporations with chapters in each province and territory. The \"Condo Owners Association\" COA Ontario is a non-profit association representing condominium owners with divisions across the province and districts within the various municipalities.\n\nBefore 1981 condominiums made up less than ten percent of homes built in Canada.\n\nOver a million people live in strata housing in British Columbia. Strata properties are a popular housing choice in B.C. because it is convenient, provides security and added amenities and is usually less costly than buying a single-family home.\n\nAs the price of single-family housing has soared to unprecedented levels in Vancouver, the number of new condominium sales has increased, along with prices. According to the Real Estate Board of Greater Vancouver, the benchmark price for a condo in July, 2016 was $510,600 in the region, up 27.4 per cent from the same month in 2015.\n\nThe Strata Property Act requires all stratas to maintain an insurance policy for a minimum of $2 million (property and liability) that covers the common elements and the units as originally buïlt.\n\nThere are over 1.3 million condo owners and/or residents living in more than 587,000 condominium units in Ontario. One-half of new construction in 2013 was condominium-related. In recent years, the condominium industry has been booming in Canada, with dozens of new towers being erected each year. Toronto is the centre of this boom, with 17,000 new units being sold in 2005, more than double second place Miami's 7,500 units. Toronto's condo population has grown from 978,125 in 2011 to 1.478 million people in 2016 representing 54.7% of the city population according to Toronto Condo News.\n\nOutside of Toronto, the most common forms of condominium have been townhomes rather than highrises, although that trend may be altered as limitations are placed on \"Greenfields\" (see Greenfield land) developments in those areas (in turn, forcing developers to expand upward rather than outward and to consider more condominium conversions instead of new housing). Particular growth areas are in Kitchener/Waterloo, Barrie, and London. In fact, after Toronto, the Golden Horseshoe Chapter of the Canadian Condominium Institute is one of that organization's most thriving chapters.\n\nCondominium Authority of Ontario (CAO) was established, in 2017, by the Province of Ontario to address concerns about condo living and management in the province. Its goal is to minimize issues before they become disputes to help with community building. To do this they have implemented three pillars; education, mandated reporting and disclosure of information, and a tribunal for handling disputes that arise In a March 2018 Toronto Condo News article, the Executive Director of the Condominium Authority of Ontario explains it has an \"overarching goal to enhance consumer protection for condominium owners, directors and residents. This is made possible through a comprehensive offering of information about condominium ownership including self-help tools, mandatory director training, and a new online dispute resolution service, the Condominium Authority Tribunal (CAT).\"\n\nUntil December 2015, condominiums in Ontario were governed by the Ontario Condominium Act, 1998 with each development establishing a corporation to deal with day-to-day functions (maintenance, repairs, etc.). A board of directors is elected by the owners of units (or, in the case of a common elements condominium corporation, the owners of the common interest in the common elements) in the development on at least a yearly basis. A general meeting is held annually to deal with board elections and the appointment of an auditor (or waiving of audit). Other matters can also be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting, but special meetings of the owners can be called by the board and, in some cases, by the owners themselves, at any time.\n\nThe Ontario Condominium Act, 1998 provided an effectively wide range of development options, including Standard, Phased, Vacant Land, Common Element and Leasehold condominiums. Certain existing condominiums can amalgamate, and existing properties can be converted to condominium (provided municipal requirements for the same are met). Accordingly, the expanded and expanding use of the condominium concept is permitting developers and municipalities to consider newer and more interesting forms of development to meet social needs.\n\nOn this issue, Ontario condominium lawyer Michael Clifton writes, \"Condominium development has steadily increased in Ontario for several years. While condominiums typically represent attractive lifestyle and home-ownership alternatives for buyers, they also, importantly, introduce a new approach to community planning for home builders and municipal approval authorities in Ontario. ...[There are] opportunities for developers to be both creative and profitable in building, and municipalities more flexible and imaginative in planning and approving, developments that will become sustainable communities.\"\n\nReserve fund contributions are ten percent of the condominium fees collected or higher. Contrary to other jurisdictions such as Alberta, Ontario does not provide flexibility for small condo corporations to conduct their own reserve fund study, or to update it less frequently than required for large corporations. Managers of small condominium corporations have asked the Ontario Ministry of Consumer Services to review this requirement as it becomes burdensome for the management of smaller buildings.\n\nTo assist the public to know more about condominiums and condominium operations, the Condo Owners Association provides information for condo owners, buyers and the general public. In Ontario, the provincial Condominium Act 1998 was under review, as of August, 2015, and the Condo Owners Association (COA Ontario) was a stakeholder in the process. COA Ontario had been working with the Ministry of Consumer Services of the provincial government to help build a better Condo Act as announced by the Dalton McGuinty Government in June 2012. COA represents and advocates for condominium owners and buyers. They are a growing force in Ontario with divisions across the province. The new Act has passed first reading.\n\nThe Association of Condominium Managers of Ontario is the association of Professional Condominium Managers across Ontario.\n\nOn May 27, 2015, David Orazietti, Ontario's Minister of Government and Consumer Services, introduced a new bill called Protecting Condominium Owners Act, 2015. The bill called for the creation of a new Condominium Authority, which would be funded by a $1 a month fee on individual condo owners and by condo developers, that would provide advice for condo owners, facilitate dispute resolution between owners and boards regarding issues such as noise complaints, bylaw infractions or an inability to get financial statements from the board of directors. Critics of the bill said that the bill would result in increased fees and more special assessments. The aim of the Act is to make it less expensive to resolve disputes. The Act will require boards to issue reports to owners on things such as insurance or legal proceedings. Clear language will spell out the amount of an adequate Reserve fund study and help eliminate surprise hikes in condo fees or special assessments levied against each unit. On December 2, 2015 Third Reading of this Act was Carried on division and on December 3, 2015 Royal Assent was received,\n\nThe Act introduces a new body, the Condo Manager Licensing Authority. There will be training and licensing of condominium management companies and individuals to ensure those hired to run multimillion-dollar condominium corporations are adequately trained to reduce the risk of fraud and mismanagement.The Act also introduces a code of ethics for condo managers.There were 2,500 people managing 10,000 condominium developments in Ontario, with 700,000 individual units.\nIn Saskatchewan, condominiums are registered as a special type of non-profit corporation that is owned by the unit owners; the owners elect a board of directors; the operation of the corporation is governed by \"The Condominium Property Act, 1993\".\n\nAccording to Maclean's:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40958", "title": "Controlled area", "text": "Controlled area\n\nIn telecommunication, a controlled area is an area in which uncontrolled movement will not result in compromise of classified information, that is designed to provide administrative control and safety, or that serves as a buffer for controlling access to limited-access areas. It can also refer to an area to which security controls have been applied to protect an information-processing system's equipment and wirelines, equivalent to that required for the information transmitted through the system.\n"}
{"id": "42335212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42335212", "title": "Democracy-Dictatorship Index", "text": "Democracy-Dictatorship Index\n\nDemocracy-Dictatorship (DD), index of democracy and dictatorship or simply the DD index or the DD datasets refers to the binary measure of democracy and dictatorship first proposed by Adam Przeworski \"et al.\" (2010), and further developed and maintained by Cheibub, Gandhi, and Vreeland (2009).\n\nBased on the regime binary classification idea proposed by Alvarez in 1996, and the Democracy and Development (or DD measure, ACLP datatset) proposed by Przeworski \"et al.\" (2010), Cheibub, Gandhi, and Vreeland developed a six-fold regime classification scheme, resulting what the authors called as the DD datasets.\n\nThe DD dataset covers the annual data points of 199 countries from 1946 (or date of independence) to 2008. The figures at the left show the results in 1998 and 2008.\n\nThe DD index first classifies the regimes into two types: democracies and dictatorships. For democracies, it categorizes them into three types: parliamentary, semi-presidential and presidential democracies. For dictatorships, monarchic, military and civilian dictatorship.\n\nBased on a “minimalist” theory of democracy, the index relies on rules regarding the existence of competitive elections. Resorting to democratic concepts by Karl Popper and Joseph Schumpeter, Przeworkski defended the minimalist approach, citing Popper that \"the only system in which citizens can get rid of governments without bloodshed.\"\n\nFor a regime to be considered as a democracy by the DD scheme, it must meet the requirement of four rules below:\nSome regimes may meet the first three rules, but lack an alternation in power in its historical past; these regimes are classified as dictatorships and marked with a type II value, signalling potential classification errors where a democratic regime may be falsely classified as dictatorship.\n\nThe authors acknowledged that the last rule is more complicated to implement but argued that it helps researchers to control potential errors and enhance the classification schemes' scientific reproducibility.\n\nIn DD dataset, the Type II variable does not indicate cases of semi-democracy or cases of semi-dictatorship..\n\nFor the regimes with type2 of 1, the following list compares the similarities and contrasts between the 2008 data points from the DD dataset and the Polity IV.\nThe DD dataset is limited to 199 countries after 1946, whereas Boix, Miller, & Rosato, 2013 proposed a data set from 1800 to 2007, covering 219 countries. The 2010 version of Polity data series covers 189 countries from 1800 to 2009.\n\nGugiu & Centellas developed the Democracy Cluster Classification Index that integrates five democracy indicators (including the DD dataset, Polity dataset, etc.), clustering 24 American and 39 European regimes over 30 years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11509426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11509426", "title": "Demokratia", "text": "Demokratia\n\nDemokratia () is a direct democracy, as opposed to the modern representative democracy.\n\nIt was used in ancient Greece, most notably Athens, and began its use around 500 BCE. In a participant government, citizens who wish to have a say in government can participate in it. Demokratia excluded women, foreigners, and slaves. It barred between 80 and 90 percent of the population from political rights.\n\nThe word demokratia comes from δῆμος \"demos\" \"people\" and \"kratos\" \"power\": \"the people hold power.\" \"Demos\", including the lower classes, had political equality and notwhile respecting laws and institutions, was given full and absolute control of power and government.\"\n\nIn some languages, including Finnish, Demokratia is a word simply meaning democracy.\n\nQuoted from MODERN AMERICA AND THE RELIGION OF DEMOCRACY (Internet archive) by Loren J Samons II:\n\nIn classical Athens, religion suffused every aspect of public life, from the theater to the military to the political assembly. The state (that is, the citizens) sponsored religious festivals and actively participated in the propitiation and worship of the gods. This fact well illustrates the way the various aspects of Athenian society — religious, political, economic, and social — overlapped with and affected one another, and the way every Athenian found himself set firmly within a matrix of duties to the gods, to his family, and to his fellow citizens. The principle of necessary duties (especially to protect the family, to serve the polis, and to propitiate the gods) formed the basic structure of Athenian society, and gave meaning to each religious, economic, military, and political act. In such an environment, it was impossible for the Athenians abjectly to worship a form of government, demokratia, even after they had made it a goddess. The idea that the \"freedom to make choices\" or \"diversity\" were absolute goods and thus could serve as goals or ideals (on a level with, much less above, family, gods, or polis) contradicted the very premises of Athenian society. Thus while democratic practices ultimately had a marked and deleterious effect on Athenian national strength and public morale and arguably contributed to the loss of Athenian independence, Athenian society managed to stave off the most harmful aspects of democratic theory. Even after they lost their democracy and autonomy, there is little evidence that the Athenians completely lost their fundamental conception of a society based on the principle of duties.\nI. Morris & K. Raaflaub (ed.), \"Democracy 2500?: Questions and Challenges\", Kendal/Hunt Publishing Co., 1998\n\n"}
{"id": "41004981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41004981", "title": "Development aggression", "text": "Development aggression\n\nDevelopment aggression is a term used by indigenous peoples to refer to development projects that violate their human rights.\n\nIt refers to projects planned or progressed without free, prior and informed consent from an impacted local community as required by international law, such as in the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples.\n\nThe term was used as early as 1994 in reporting about international Human Rights Day.\n\nThe term was a focus for the 2013 International Day of the World’s Indigenous Peoples in some countries. Jill Cariño, convenor of Philippine Task Force for Indigenous Peoples’ Rights said on the day in 2013: \n"}
{"id": "148576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148576", "title": "Devolution", "text": "Devolution\n\nDevolution is the statutory delegation of powers from the central government of a sovereign state to govern at a subnational level, such as a regional or local level. It is a form of administrative decentralization. Devolved territories have the power to make legislation relevant to the area.\n\nDevolution differs from federalism in that the devolved powers of the subnational authority may be temporary and are reversible, ultimately residing with the central government. Thus, the state remains \"de jure\" unitary. Legislation creating devolved parliaments or assemblies can be repealed or amended by central government in the same way as any statute. In federal systems, by contrast, sub-unit government is guaranteed in the constitution, so the powers of the sub-units cannot be withdrawn unilaterally by the central government (i.e. without the consent of the sub-units being granted through the process of constitutional amendment). The sub-units therefore have a lower degree of protection under devolution than under federalism.\n\nAustralia is a federation. It has six states and two territories with less power than states.\n\nThe Australian Capital Territory refused self-government in a 1978 referendum, but was given limited self-government by a House of Assembly from 1979, and a Legislative Assembly with wider powers in 1988.\n\nThe Northern Territory of Australia refused statehood in a 1998 referendum. The rejection was a surprise to both the Australian and Northern Territory governments.\n\nTerritory legislation can be disallowed by the Commonwealth Parliament in Canberra, with one notable example being the NT's short lived voluntary euthanasia legislation.\n\nAlthough Canada is a federal state, a large portion of its land mass in the north is under the legislative jurisdiction of the federal government. This has been the case since 1870. In 1870 the Rupert’s Land and North-Western Territory Order effected the admission of Rupert’s Land and the North-Western Territory to Canada, pursuant to section 146 of the \"Constitution Act, 1867\" and the \"Rupert’s Land Act, 1868\". The \"Manitoba Act, 1870\", which created Manitoba out of part of Rupert’s Land, also designated the remaining territories the Northwest Territories (NWT), over which Parliament was to exercise full legislative authority under the \"Constitution Act, 1871\".\n\nSince the 1970s, the federal government has been transferring its decision-making powers to northern governments. This means greater local control and accountability by northerners for decisions central to the future of the territories. Yukon was carved from the Northwest Territories in 1898 but it remained a federal territory. Subsequently, in 1905, the provinces of Alberta and Saskatchewan were created from the Northwest Territories. Other portions of Rupert's Land were added to the provinces of Ontario and Quebec, extending the provinces northward from their previous narrow band around the St. Lawrence and lower Great Lakes. The District of Ungava was a regional administrative district of Canada's Northwest Territories from 1895 to 1912. The continental areas of said district were transferred by the Parliament of Canada with the adoption of the \"Quebec Boundary Extension Act, 1898\" and the \"Quebec Boundaries Extension Act, 1912\". The status of the interior of Labrador which was believed part of Ungava was settled in 1927 by the British Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, which ruled in favour of Newfoundland.\n\nIn 1999, the federal government created Nunavut pursuant to a land claim agreement reached with Inuit, the indigenous people of Canada’s Eastern Arctic. The offshore islands to the west and north of Quebec remained part of the Northwest Territories until the creation of Nunavut in 1999.\n\nSince that time, the federal government has slowly devolved legislative jurisdiction to the territories. Enabling the territories to become more self-sufficient and prosperous and to play a stronger role in the Canadian federation is considered a key component to development in Canada’s North. Among the three territories, devolution is most advanced in Yukon.\n\nThe Northwest Territories (NWT) was governed from Ottawa from 1870 until the 1970s, except for the brief period between 1898 and 1905 when it was governed by an elected assembly. The Carrothers Commission was established in April 1963 by the government of Lester B. Pearson to examine the development of government in the NWT. It conducted surveys of opinion in the NWT in 1965 and 1966 and reported in 1966. Major recommendations included that the seat of government of the territories should be located in the territories. Yellowknife was selected as the territorial capital as a result. Transfer of many responsibilities from the federal government to that of the territories was recommended and carried out. This included responsibility for education, small business, public works, social services and local government. Since the report, the transfer of the government of Northwest Territories has taken over responsibilities for several other programs and services including the delivery of health care, social services, education, administration of airports, and forestry management. The legislative jurisdiction of the territorial legislature is set out in section 16 of the Northwest Territories Act.\n\nNow, the government of Canada is negotiating the transfer of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and Northern Development's remaining provincial-type responsibilities in the NWT. These include the legislative powers, programs and responsibilities for land and resources associated with the department's Northern Affairs Program (NAP) with respect to:\n\n\nThe Government of the Northwest Territories, the Aboriginal Summit and the Government of Canada have each appointed a Chief Negotiator to work on devolution. A Framework Agreement was concluded in 2004. The target date for the completion of devolution talks for the NWT was March 2007. However, stumbling blocks associated with the transfer of current federal employees to the territorial government, and the unresolved issue of how much money the Northwest Territories will receive for its resources has delayed the conclusion of a devolution agreement for the NWT.\n\nIn 1966, the federal government established the Carruthers Commission to look at the issue of government in the north. After extensive study and consultation, the Commission concluded that division of the NWT was probably both advisable and inevitable. There was a recognition that Northerners wanted to run their own affairs and must be given the opportunity to do so. At the same time, however, it noted that governmental reform was required before this could happen. It recommended the establishment of a new system of representative government. As a result, in the late 1960s and in the 1970s, the federal government gradually created electoral constituencies and transferred many federally run programs to the territorial government. Northerners took on more and more responsibility for the day-to-day running of their own affairs.\nIn 1982 a plebiscite was held in the NWT asking the question, \"Do you think the NWT should be divided?\" Fifty-three percent of eligible voters participated in the plebiscite, with 56.4 percent of them voting \"yes\". Voter turnout and support for division was particularly strong in the Eastern Arctic. The Inuit population of the eastern section of the territory had become increasingly receptive of the idea of self-government. It was viewed as the best way to promote and protect their culture and traditions and address their unique regional concerns.\n\nBoth the NWT Legislative Assembly and the federal government accepted the idea of dividing the territory. The idea was viewed as an important step towards enabling the Inuit, and other residents of the Eastern Arctic, to take charge of their own destiny. There were some reservations, however. Before action could be taken, certain practical considerations had to be addressed. First of all, outstanding land claims had to be settled. Second, all parties had to agree on a new boundary. Finally, all parties had to agree on the division of powers between territorial, regional and local levels of government. The various governments and native groups worked closely together to realize these goals.\nThe \"Nunavut Land Claims Agreement\" was ratified by the Inuit in November 1992, signed by the Prime Minister of Canada on May 25, 1993, and passed by the Canadian Parliament in June of the same year. It was the largest native land claim settlement in Canadian history. It gave the Inuit title over 350,000 square kilometres of land. It also gave the Inuit capital transfers from the federal government of over $1.1 billion over the next 14 years. This money will be held in trust with the interest to be used in a variety of different projects, including financing for regional businesses and scholarships for students. The Inuit also gained a share of resource royalties, hunting rights and a greater role in managing the land and protecting the environment. The land claims agreement also committed the Government of Canada to recommend to Parliament legislation to create a new territory in the eastern part of the Northwest Territories.\n\nWhile negotiations on a land claims settlement progressed, work was also taking place to determine potential jurisdictional boundaries for a new Eastern Territory. A proposal was presented to all NWT voters in a May 1992 plebiscite. Of those voting, 54 percent supported the proposed boundary. The Government of the Northwest Territories, the Tungavik Federation of Nunavut (the Inuit claims organization) and the federal government formally adopted the boundary for division in the Nunavut Political Accord.\nThe final piece of the equation fit into place on June 10, 1993, when the Nunavut Act received Royal Assent. It officially established the territory of Nunavut and provided a legal framework for its government. It fixed April 1, 1999, as the day on which the new territory would come into existence.\n\nThe government of Nunavut is currently negotiating with the government of Canada on a devolution agreement. Nunavut Tunngavik, the organization of Inuit of Nunavut, is also a participant to negotiations to ensure that Inuit interests are represented.\n\nDevolution over natural resources to the government of Nunavut moved forward with the appointment of a Ministerial Representative for Nunavut Devolution. The Representative has held meetings with interested parties including the Boards established under the Nunavut Land Claims Agreement (NLCA), territorial and federal government departments in order to determine if devolution will occur and if so the future mandate of devolution. The government of Nunavut and Nunavut Tunngavik have appointed negotiators.\n\nIn 1896 prospectors discovered gold in Yukon. There ensued what is often considered the world's greatest gold rush, which saw the population of Yukon grow rapidly. Indeed, by 1898, Dawson grew into the largest Canadian city west of Winnipeg, with a population of 40,000. In response, the Canadian government officially established the Yukon Territory in 1898. The North-West Mounted Police were sent in to ensure Canadian jurisdiction and the Yukon Act provided for a commissioner to administer the territory. The 1898 statute granted the Commissioner in Council \"the same powers to make ordinances... as are possessed by the Lieutenant Governor of the North-west Territories, acting by and with the advice and consent of the Legislative Assembly thereof\". In 1908 amendments to the Yukon Act transformed the Council into an elected body.\n\nOver time the territorial government exercised expanded functions. Relevant developments include the following:\n\n\nAll constituent states of Mexico are fully autonomous and comprise a federation. The Federal District, originally integrated by Mexico City and other municipalities, was created in 1824 to be the capital of the federation. As such, it was governed directly by the central or federal government and the president of Mexico appointed its governor or executive regent. Even though the municipalities within the Federal District were autonomous, their powers were limited. In 1928, these municipalities were abolished and transformed into non-autonomous \"delegaciones\" or boroughs and a \"Central Department\", later renamed as Mexico City. In 1970 this department was split into four new \"delegaciones\", and Mexico City was constitutionally defined to be synonymous and coterminous with the entire Federal District. (As such, the boroughs of the Federal District are boroughs of Mexico City).\n\nIn the 1980s, the citizens of the Federal District, being the most populated federal entity in Mexico, began to demand for home rule; a devolution of autonomy in order to directly elect their head of government and to set up a Legislative Assembly. In 1987, an Assembly of Representatives was created, by constitutional decree, whose members were elected by popular vote. The devolution of the executive power was not granted until 1997 when the first head of government was elected by popular vote. Finally, in 2000, power was devolved to the \"delegaciones\", though limited: residents can now elect their own \"heads of borough government\" (\"jefes delegacionales\", in Spanish), but the \"delegaciones\" do not have regulatory powers and are not constituted by a board of trustees, like the municipalities of the constituent states.\n\nThe autonomy, or home rule, of the Federal District, was granted by the federal government, which in principle, has the right to remove it. The president of Mexico still holds the final word in some decisions (e.g. he must approve some posts), and the Congress of the Union reviews the budget of the Federal District and sets the limit to its debt.\n\nSome left-wing groups and political parties have advocated, since the 1980s, for a full devolution of powers by transforming the Federal District into the thirty-second constituent state of the Federation (with the proposed name of \"State of the Valley of Mexico\", to be distinguished from the state of México. Another proposed name is \"State of the Anahuac\").\n\nIn a recent amendment to the Constitution of Mexico, the country was defined as a \"pluricultural nation\" founded upon the \"indigenous peoples\". They are granted \"free-determination\" to choose the social, economic, cultural and political organization for which they are to elect representatives democratically in whatever manner they see fit, traditionally or otherwise, as long as women have the same opportunities to participate in their social and political life. There are, however, no prescribed limits to their territories, and they are still under the jurisdiction of the municipalities and states in which they are located; the indigenous peoples can elect representatives before the municipal councils. In practice, they are allowed to have an autonomous form of self-government, but they are still subject to the rights and responsibilities set forth by the federal constitution and the constitution of the states in which they are located.\n\nIn the late 1980s a process of decentralisation was undertaken by the French government. Initially regions were created and elected regional assemblies set up. Together with the departmental councils these bodies have responsibility for infrastructure spending and maintenance (schools and highways) and certain social spending. They collect revenues through property taxes and various other taxes. In addition a large part of spending is provided by direct grants to such authorities.\n\nThere also are groups calling for devolution or full independence for Occitania, Alsace, and Brittany.\n\nThe Spanish Constitution of 1978 granted autonomy to the \"nationalities\" and regions of which the Kingdom of Spain is composed. (See also \"autonomous communities and cities of Spain\")\n\nUnder the \"system of autonomies\" (), Spain has been quoted to be \"remarkable for the extent of the powers peacefully devolved over the past 30 years\" and \"an extraordinarily decentralised country\", with the central government accounting for just 18% of public spending; the regional governments 38%, the local councils 13% and the social-security system the rest.\n\nIn 2010 the Constitutional Court had ruled that non-binding referendums could be held and subsequently several municipalities held such referendums.\n\nOn December 12, 2013 the Catalan Government announced that a referendum would be held on self-determination. The central government of Spain considers that a binding referendum is unconstitutional and cannot be held. On October 1, 2017 the regional government held a referendum despite having been declared illegal by the Spanish courts. Subsequently, several leaders were arrested and imprisoned on charges of \"sedition\" and \"rebellion\". The regional president fled to Brussels, but has so far escaped extradition as those offenses are not part of Belgian law or the European Arrest Warrant. On December 21, 2017 fresh elections were held in which pro-independence parties held a slim majority and a broad coalition of constitutionalist parties expressed disappointment and concern for the future.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, devolved government was created following simple majority referenda in Wales and Scotland in September 1997 and in London in May 1998. Between 1998 and 1999, the Scottish Parliament, National Assembly for Wales, Northern Ireland Assembly and London Assembly were established by law. The Campaign for an English Parliament, which supports English devolution (i.e. the establishment of a separate English parliament or assembly) was formed in 1998.\n\nA referendum was held in Scotland on 18 September 2014 which asked citizens whether Scotland should be an independent country. By a margin of approximately 55 percent to 45 percent, people living in Scotland rejected the proposal. The leaders of the three largest British political parties pledged on 16 September 2014 a new devolution settlement for Scotland in the event of a No vote, promising to deliver “faster, safer and better change”, and as a result of this vote and promises made during the referendum campaign, British Prime Minister David Cameron announced plans to devolve additional powers to the Scottish government, the nature of which would be determined by the Smith Commission. These powers were subsequently transferred in the Scotland Act 2016. Following the outcome of the United Kingdom European Union membership referendum on 23 June 2016, calls for further devolution have been raised, including differential membership of the European single market for the devolved areas of the United Kingdom.\n\nIn the United States only the federal government and state governments are sovereign. Legal relationships with Indian tribes and their government structures are the jurisdiction of the federal government. Territories are under the direct jurisdiction of Congress. Territorial governments are thus devolved by acts of Congress. Political subdivisions of a state, such as a county or municipality, are a type of devolved government and are defined by individual state constitutions and laws. \n\nIn the United States, the District of Columbia offers an illustration of devolved government. The District is separate from any state, and has its own elected government; in many ways, on a day-to-day basis, it operates much like another state, with its own laws, court system, Department of Motor Vehicles, public university, and so on. However, the governments of the 50 states reserved a broad range of powers in the U.S. Constitution, and most of their laws cannot be voided by any act of U.S. federal government. The District of Columbia, by contrast, is constitutionally under the sole control of the United States Congress, which created the current District government by statute. Any law passed by the District legislature can be nullified by congressional action, and indeed the District government could be significantly altered or eliminated entirely by a simple majority vote in Congress.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55557718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55557718", "title": "Emerge85", "text": "Emerge85\n\nemerge85, originally known as The Johns Hopkins SAIS-Delma Institute Partnership on Geo-Economic Multiplicity, is a research partnership between the Foreign Policy Institute at Johns Hopkins Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS) and the UAE-based Delma Institute. The partnership is co-located in Washington, D.C., and Abu Dhabi.\n\nIts stated purpose is to explore change and the rising importance of emerging markets, with emphasis on stories that challenge the economic status quo and reshape the global landscape. Recurring themes include urbanization, increased connectivity, and the global middle class.\n\nThe partnership derives its named from the 85% of the world’s population living in Asia, Africa, and Latin America.\n\nemerge85 was founded in April 2016 and launched to the public at an event hosted by Vali Nasr, the dean of SAIS, on October 4, 2016. A year later in October 2017, emerge85 was an official partner at the fourth ALN Annual International Conference in Dubai, which explored economic opportunities between Africa and the Persian Gulf region. It also partnered with The Milken Institute for its 2018 MENA Summit in Abu Dhabi in February 2018, where Al Gergawi moderated a panel discussion on food security in the Middle East, and spoke on another panel about China's One Belt One Road Initiative.\n\nemerge85 is co-directed by Afshin Molavi and Mishaal Al Gergawi. Molavi is an author and senior fellow at Johns Hopkins SAIS and the New America Foundation. Al Gergawi is the managing director of The Delma Institute, a risk advisory firm located in Abu Dhabi. Both Molavi and Al Gergawi regularly comment on emerging market affairs, appearing in the US media for \"The Atlantic\", \"Foreign Policy\", \"The Hill\", \"Politico\", and others.\n\nThe partnership regularly publishes original articles and podcasts on its website. In October 2017, emerge85 published two reports, the first discussing how to bridge the Persian Gulf and Africa, and the second, looking at the energy ramifications of China's One Belt One Road Initiative.\n\nemerge85's podcast, \"The 85%\", was launched on August 7, 2017. The fortnightly show is hosted by Afshin Molavi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53436322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53436322", "title": "Environment and Resources Authority", "text": "Environment and Resources Authority\n\nThe Environment and Resources Authority is the regulatory agency responsible for the natural environment in Malta. It was formed from the demerger of the Malta Environment and Planning Authority, which also resulted in the creation of the Malta Planning Authority.\n"}
{"id": "144896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144896", "title": "Federal Marriage Amendment", "text": "Federal Marriage Amendment\n\nThe Federal Marriage Amendment (FMA) (also referred to by proponents as the Marriage Protection Amendment) was a proposed amendment to the United States Constitution that would define marriage in the United States as a union of one man and one woman. The FMA would also prevent judicial extension of marriage rights to same-sex or other unmarried heterosexual couples. An amendment to the U.S. Constitution requires the support of two thirds of each house of Congress and ratification by three fourths of the states. The last Congressional vote on the proposed amendment occurred in the House of Representatives on July 18, 2006, when the motion failed 236 to 187, falling short of the 290 votes required for passage in that body. The Senate has only voted on cloture motions with regard to the proposed amendment, the last of which was on June 7, 2006, when the motion failed 49 to 48, falling short of the 60 votes required to allow the Senate to proceed to consideration of the proposal and the 67 votes required to send the proposed amendment to the states for ratification.\n\nIn the United States, civil marriage is governed by state law. Each state is free to set the conditions for a valid marriage, subject to limits set by the state's own constitution and the U.S. Constitution. Traditionally, a marriage was considered valid if the requirements of the marriage law of the state where the marriage took place were fulfilled. (First Restatement of Conflicts on Marriage and Legitimacy s.121 (1934)). However, a state can refuse to recognize a marriage if the marriage violates a strong public policy of the state, even if the marriage was legal in the state where it was performed. (Restatement (Second) Of Conflict of Laws § 283(2) (1971).) States historically exercised this \"public policy exception\" by refusing to recognize out-of-state polygamous marriages, underage marriages, incestuous marriages, and interracial marriages. Following the Windsor decision in 2013, nearly all courts that have addressed the issue have held that states with laws defining marriage as a one-man, one-woman union cannot refuse to recognize same-sex marriages that were legally performed elsewhere and must permit all people, regardless of gender or sexual orientation, the right to marry.\n\nSame-sex marriage is currently legal in all US States. In 2003 and 2008 respectively, the Massachusetts and California Supreme courts ruled in \"Goodridge v. Department of Public Health\" and \"In Re Marriage Cases\" that the states' constitutions required the state to permit same-sex marriage. The Massachusetts decision could be reversed by an amendment to the state constitution; to date, no such amendment has successfully been passed in Massachusetts. On June 2, the \"California Marriage Protection Act\", commonly referred to as Prop 8 qualified for the 2008 General Election ballot. Voted into law on November 4, 2008, it amended the California Constitution to provide that \"Only marriage between a man and a woman is valid or recognized in California\". Prop 8 was later found to be unconstitutional and marriage equality took effect. Thirty states passed state constitutional amendments defining marriage as being between one man and one woman. On June 26, 2015, all amendments banning sex-same marriage were invalidated by the Supreme Court's ruling on \"Obergefell v. Hodges\".\n\nAlthough individual U.S. states have the primary regulatory power with regard to marriage, the United States Congress has occasionally regulated marriage. The 1862 Morrill Anti-Bigamy Act, which made bigamy a punishable federal offense in U.S. territories, was followed by a series of federal laws designed to end the practice of polygamy. In 1996 as a reaction to a state level judicial ruling prohibiting same-sex couples from marrying that may violate Hawaii's constitutional equal protection clause (Baehr v. Miike, 80 Hawai`i 341), Congress passed the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA), section 3 of which defined marriage as a legal union of one man and one woman for the purpose of interpreting federal law. Under DOMA section 3, the federal government did not recognize same-sex marriages, even if those unions were recognized by state law. For example, members of a same-sex couple legally married in Massachusetts could not file joint federal income tax returns even if they filed joint state income tax returns. DOMA section 3 was struck down by the U.S. Supreme Court in \"United States v. Windsor\" on June 26, 2013.\n\nFederal courts have interpreted the U.S. Constitution to place some limits on states' ability to restrict access to marriage. In \"Loving v. Virginia\", the United States Supreme Court overturned state marriage laws that barred interracial marriages on the basis that marriage is a \"basic civil right...\" and that \"...the freedom to marry, or not marry, a person of another race resides with the individual and cannot be infringed by the State.\" The Supreme Court struck down a 1992 Colorado constitutional amendment that barred legislative and judicial remedies to protect homosexuals from discrimination solely on the basis of their sexual orientation in \"Romer v. Evans\".\n\nIn 1972, the U.S. Supreme Court dismissed, \"for want of a substantial question,\" an appeal by two men who unsuccessfully challenged Minnesota's marriage statutes in state court. Because the case, \"Baker v. Nelson,\" came to the Court through mandatory appellate review (not \"certiorari\"), the summary dismissal established \"Baker v. Nelson\" as a binding precedent.\n\nIn 2010, the United States District Court for the Northern District of California ruled that Proposition 8, passed two years earlier by a majority of voters, was unconstitutional. As in Judge Baitaillon's decision about the Nebraska law, Judge Vaughn Walker stated in his ruling that moral opposition to same-sex marriage is not sufficient reason to make a law valid. Judge Walker ruled the law violated the 14th Amendment's Equal Protection clause, as well as the Due Process Clause. The proponents of Proposition 8 appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, which affirmed the lower court's decision on February 7, 2012. On June 26, 2013, the U.S. Supreme Court, vacated the Ninth Circuit's ruling for lack of jurisdiction. Two days later the Ninth Circuit dissolved its stay of the district court's ruling, allowing same-sex marriage to resume in California. In 2015 the Supreme Court held in \"Obergefell v. Hodges\" that the government could not refuse to recognize same-sex marriage.\n\nThe Federal Marriage Amendment has been introduced in the United States Congress many different times: in 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2008, 2013, and 2015.\n\nThe original proposed Federal Marriage Amendment was written by the Alliance for Marriage with the assistance of former Solicitor General and failed Supreme Court nominee Judge Robert Bork, Professor Robert P. George of Princeton University, and Professor Gerard V. Bradley of Notre Dame Law School. It was introduced in the 107th United States Congress in the House of Representatives on May 15, 2002, by Representative Ronnie Shows (D-Miss.) with 22 cosponsors, and read:\n\nThe bill was designated H.J.Res 93 and was immediately referred to the House Committee on the Judiciary. On July 18, 2002, it was referred to the Subcommittee on the Constitution, which took no action on it.\n\nThe amendment was introduced again by Rep. Marilyn Musgrave (R-Colo.) on May 21, 2003, with the same wording proposed in 2002. The bill was designated H.J.Res.56 in the House and was immediately referred to the House Committee on the Judiciary. On June 25, 2003, it was referred to the Subcommittee on the Constitution, where hearings were held on May 13, 2004. On November 23, Rep. Barney Frank (D-Mass.) objected that the amendment would interrupt Massachusetts' scheduled experiment with same-sex marriage, then scheduled to begin in May 2004. Musgrave countered that the Massachusetts marriages were court-ordered. She said: \"If we're going to redefine marriage, let's let the American people, through their elected representatives, decide—not activist judges. Let the people of Massachusetts decide.\"\n\nThe bill was introduced in the Senate by Senator Wayne Allard (R-Colo.) on November 25, 2003, and designated S.J.Res.26. The amendment changed the language of the proposed amendment, substituting \"marriage\" for \"marital status\" and specifying that it applied to \"any union other than the union of a man and a woman\" rather than \"unmarried couples or groups\". The changes were intended to make it clear that state legislatures could still recognize civil unions if the amendment were to pass. \"This new language makes the intent of the legislation even clearer: to protect marriage in this country as the union between a man and a woman, and to reinforce the authority of state legislatures to determine benefits issues related to civil unions or domestic partnerships,\" said Sen. Wayne Allard. It was immediately referred to the Senate Committee on the Judiciary.\n\nWhen the 2003 version of the FMA failed to advance in the Congress, Senator Allard re-introduced the Amendment on May 22, 2004, with a revised second sentence. Rep. Musgrave re-introduced the Amendment in the House on September 23, 2004, with the same revision.\n\nThe 2004 version of the Federal Marriage Amendment stated:\n\nThe bill was designated S.J.Res.30 in the Senate and was immediately referred to the Senate Committee on the Judiciary. When the bill became stuck in committee, Senator Allard re-introduced the Amendment in the Senate on July 7, 2004, where it was designated S.J.Res.40. The bill was subject to a filibuster: on July 9, 12, 13 and 14, the motion was made to proceed to consideration of the measure. On July 14, 2004, a cloture motion to force a direct vote on the FMA was defeated in the Senate by a margin of 50 nay votes to 48 yea votes. The 48 votes in support of the cloture motion were 12 votes short of the 60-vote supermajority (three-fifths) needed to end debate and force a vote on the Amendment itself. Senators John Kerry of Massachusetts and John Edwards of North Carolina skipped the filibuster vote. On July 15, 2004, the motion to proceed to consideration of the Amendment was withdrawn in the Senate. Six Republicans voted with a majority of Democrats against cloture in the Senate.\n\nThe bill was designated H.J.Res.106 in the House and was immediately referred to the House Committee on the Judiciary. On September 28, 2004, rules were recommended by the House Rules Committee with regards to debate and voting on the proposed Amendment. The rules were passed on September 30. The resolution was immediately considered. Passage of the proposed Amendment failed 227 yea votes to 186 nay votes, where 290 yea votes (two-thirds) are required for passage of a proposed Constitutional amendment.\n\nOn January 24, 2005, Senator Allard introduced the Marriage Protection Amendment, which was the 2004 version of the Federal Marriage Amendment verbatim, with 21 Republican co-sponsors. In 2006, Rep. Musgrave introduced the Marriage Protection Amendment in the House. This version had the same language as the 2004 proposal, except that the word \"solely\" in the first sentence was replaced by the word \"only\".\n\nThe bill was designated S.J.Res.1 in the Senate and was immediately referred to the Senate Committee on the Judiciary. On November 9, 2005, the Subcommittee on Constitution, Civil Rights and Property Rights approved the bill for consideration by the full Judiciary Committee. On May 18, 2006, the Judiciary Committee reported to the Senate and the bill was placed on the legislative calendar. The motion to proceed to the measure was first made on June 5, 2006. A cloture motion on the motion to proceed was then presented in Senate. On June 6 and 7, the motion to proceed to the measure was again considered in the Senate. On June 7, a cloture motion to force a direct vote on the Marriage Protection Amendment was defeated in the Senate by a margin of 49 nay votes to 48 yea votes, with the vote mostly following party lines with Democrats opposing and Republicans in favor. The 48 votes in support of the cloture motion were 12 votes short of the 60-vote supermajority (three-fifths) needed to end debate and force a vote on the Amendment itself. Eight Republican Senators opposed or did not vote; four Democratic Senators favored or did not vote. The only Senators who changed their position from the 2004 vote to the 2006 vote were Senators Judd Gregg (R-N.H.) and Arlen Specter (R-Penna.), both of whom voted Yea in 2004 and Nay in 2006.\n\nThe bill was designated H.J.Res.88 in the House and was immediately referred to the House Committee on the Judiciary. On July 17, 2006, rules were recommended by the House Rules Committee with regards to debate and voting on the proposed Amendment. The rules were passed on July 18. The resolution was immediately considered. Passage of the proposed Amendment failed 236 yea votes to 187 nay votes, where 290 yea votes (two-thirds) are required for passage. The motion to reconsider was immediately laid on the table and agreed to without objection. Twenty-seven Republican Representatives opposed the FMA; thirty-four Democrats voted in favor of the FMA and one Independent voted against the FMA in the vote on July 18, 2006 in the House.\n\nOn May 22, 2008, Rep. Paul Broun (R-Ga.) and 91 co-sponsors introduced H.J.Res.89, which proposed the enactment of FMA. Senator Roger Wicker (R-Miss.) and eight other senators introduced similar legislation with S.J.Res.43 on June 25.\n\nU.S. Representative Tim Huelskamp (R-Kansas) reintroduced the FMA () on June 28, 2013, in response to the U.S. Supreme Court decision striking down the Defense of Marriage Act in \"United States v. Windsor\". The bill, which had 58 cosponsors, never made it out of committee.\n\nHuelskamp again introduced the Federal Marriage Amendment in 2015, during the 114th Congress, as . The amendment garnered 37 cosponsors, all Republicans. It never made it out of committee.\n\nIn 2003, the White House declined to take a stand on the amendment, although Press Secretary Ari Fleischer relayed that President George W. Bush believed that marriage was between a man and a woman. In his State of the Union address on January 20, 2004, President Bush alluded to the recent court decision in Massachusetts ordering the state to recognize same-sex marriages beginning in May: \"Activist judges ... have begun redefining marriage by court order, without regard for the will of the people and their elected representatives... If judges insist on forcing their arbitrary will upon the people, the only alternative left to the people would be the constitutional process.\" On February 24, after the same Massachusetts court reiterated that it was insisting on marriage and that civil unions were insufficient, Bush expressed support for this amendment for the first time. In August, Vice President Dick Cheney neither endorsed nor condemned the FMA, arguing that same-sex marriage is an issue for the states to decide. In 2009, Cheney stated his support for same-sex marriage on a state-by-state basis.\n\nOn January 25, 2005, according to \"The New York Times\", Bush told a privately invited group of African-American community and religious leaders that he remained committed to amending the Constitution to \"ban same-sex marriage\". Over the course of the next two days, it was revealed by \"The Washington Post\" and \"USA Today\" that the Bush Administration had paid columnists to promote its views. The Department of Health and Human Services paid Maggie Gallagher $21,500, and Mike McManus $49,000, to write syndicated news columns endorsing the FMA. Additionally, Gallagher also received $20,000 in 2002 and 2003 to write a report on government initiatives to strengthen marriage. McManus leads a group called \"Marriage Savers\" promoting marriage as defined between a man and a woman.\n\nBy the time Americans went to the polls, John Kerry opposed the Federal Marriage Amendment and affirmatively supported civil unions, while George W. Bush supported the Federal Marriage Amendment but was not opposed to states enacting their own civil union legislation.\n\nPreviously, on February 24, 2004, Bush called for an amendment which would have outlawed same-sex marriage, and which would have disallowed states from recognizing or enforcing same-sex civil unions. Bush's statement included a requirement that any amendment \"leav[e] the state legislatures free to make their own choices in defining legal arrangements other than marriage.\" The White House partly clarified Bush's position in a February 24, 2004 press conference with White House Press Secretary Scott McClellan, who stated that by calling on the FMA to permit states the possibility of creating other \"legal arrangements,\" Bush specifically meant to permit states the chance of enacting civil unions. (McClellan also stated, however, that Bush did not personally support civil unions.) Similarly, at the February 25, 2004 press conference, McClellan stated that the White House intended to work with Congress to develop language for the FMA that permitted states to enact civil unions. Although Bush frequently spoke about FMA on the campaign from February and November 2004, he avoided mention of the phrase \"civil unions\" until an ABC News interview of October 26, 2004, aired one week before the election.\n\nThe FMA's Republican co-sponsors, Senator Wayne Allard (R-CO) and Representative Marilyn Musgrave (R-CO), announced new language for the proposed amendment on March 23, 2004, replacing the second sentence of the amendment with \"Neither this Constitution, nor the constitution of any State, shall be construed to require that marriage or the legal incidents thereof be conferred upon any union other than the union of a man and a woman.\" Both Allard and Musgrave called the change purely \"technical.\"\n\nOpponents of the FMA claim polling of the public has shown a cautious response, with many polls indicating opposition, even in states such as Arizona and Colorado which are normally thought of as socially conservative. They cite Pew Research Center exit polls from the 2004 elections finding that 25% of polled voters support same-sex marriage and another 35% support civil unions.\n\nOn the other hand, of the 11 states in which amendments defining marriage were on the ballot, all passed handily. Bush won in nine, including Ohio. Interpretation of some exit polling suggests that the amendments may have brought out one million additional voters, most of which came out for the first time to cast their ballots for Bush. Notably, a vast majority of these states have not voted for a Democrat in many years. The two states that Bush did not win, Michigan and Oregon, still passed amendments limiting official recognition of marriage to one man one woman unions.\n\nHowever, Roberta Combs, President of the Christian Coalition of America claims, \"Christian evangelicals made the major difference once again this year.\" In the 2000 Presidential Election, there was some speculation that many evangelicals did not go to the polls and vote because of the October surprise of George W. Bush's drunk-driving arrest record. In a dozen swing states that decided the presidential election, moral values tied with the economy and jobs as the top issue in the campaign, according to Associated Press exit polls.\n\nThe first sentence of H.J. Res. 56 would provide an official definition of legal marriage in the United States. Proponents claim that this is a reasonable measure, based on established custom, which defends the family and the institution of marriage. To others, it is an unfair means of excluding same-sex couples from receiving benefits from that institution. Civil right activists and supporters of the LGBT (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender) community feel that the Federal Marriage Amendment has no place in the United States constitution.\n\nOpponents of the FMA argue that it would violate the states' rights to regulate marriage by federalizing the issue, which they say should be left to the states. Many have used the federalism argument, including Senator John Kerry, Senator John McCain, and Representative Ron Paul, who opposes the FMA for several reasons, one of which that regulating marriage is not a proper role of the federal government. Constitutionally defining marriage would not only remove the states' choice, but it would reverse the choices already made in some states and territories, i.e., Massachusetts, Vermont, Connecticut, New Hampshire, New York, Iowa, and the District of Columbia.\n\nIt is argued that the 2002 version of the FMA would have severely affected the ability of heterosexual unmarried couples to seek some degree of legal protection and/or provisions.\n\nOpponents of the FMA argue that it may complicate efforts to enforce laws against domestic abuse in heterosexual relationships involving unmarried couples.\nThey note that two Ohio courts ruled that Ohio's similar amendment made the state's domestic violence laws unconstitutional as applied to unmarried couples, because they created a \"quasi-marital relationship\". (although the decisions were later reversed). Supporters of the FMA assert that this argument was an invalid scare tactic from the outset and that the FMA would not prevent laws against domestic abuse from being applied to unmarried couples. In Ohio, 8 of the 10 Ohio Courts that addressed the effect of the State Amendment on Domestic Violence Laws found no conflict. Additionally several Attorneys General of other states issued legal opinions finding that no such conflict would exist. With the final ruling of the Supreme Court of Ohio, which held that the DV Statute was not in-conflict, no State faces any contention between marriage Statutes and Domestic Violence Laws.\n\nSome religious groups argue that having the government decide whether a same-sex marriage should be legally binding on the grounds of the ideology of other religious groups restricts their religious freedom. They argue that marriage is a religious term that should not be defined by the government. Where same-sex marriage is recognized in the United States, no church or other religious institution is forced to perform same-sex marriages, but the FMA would deny the opportunity for religions which approve of same-sex marriage to perform legally binding same-sex marriages.\n\nOpponents of the FMA have claimed that life for those in a heterosexual marriage are not materially affected by a constitutional marriage definition or legalization of same-sex marriage. They stated that the FMA was totally unnecessary because federal and state laws, combined with the state of the relevant constitutional doctrines at the time, already made court-ordered nationwide same-sex marriage unlikely for the foreseeable future. It was claimed therefore, that such an amendment was a solution in search of a problem. It was claimed that neither federal nor state courts were likely to order same-sex marriage under the traditional interpretation of the Constitution's Full Faith and Credit Clause. Nor, for the foreseeable future, it was claimed, were courts likely to mandate same-sex marriage under substantive federal constitutional doctrines, such as the Fourteenth Amendment's Due Process Clause or the Equal Protection Clause. However, in light of the legalisation of same-sex marriage in several states since 2012, this claim is no longer true.\n\nThe Concerned Women for America (CWA) were concerned about the wording of the 2004 Federal Marriage Amendment. CWA did not support the language in the amendment because the second sentence is open to differing interpretations, and its drafters acknowledged that it was specifically worded so state legislators could create civil unions and domestic partnerships, because the CWA opposes any legal recognition of same-sex couples. CWA preferred the Institution of Marriage Amendment crafted by Home School Legal Defense Association President Michael Farris. That amendment, which has not been introduced by any member of Congress, states:\n\nProponents of the FMA initially argued that if it were not for judicial overreach, there would be no need for an FMA; states' rights would not be violated since no state legislatures had recognized same-sex marriage. However, by the end of 2012, a number of states had enacted same-sex marriage both through the actions of their state legislatures (Vermont, New Hampshire, New York), and through popular vote (Maine, Maryland, Washington).\n\nPrior to these legislative enactments and popular vote outcomes, proponents of the FMA argues that the federalism proposed by the opponents of a constitutional amendment was a contrivance for permitting federal courts to force same-sex marriage upon the whole nation, no matter what the people of the individual states desire. Proponents supported this claim with \"Citizens for Equal Protection v. Bruning\", in which a district court struck down Nebraska's marriage amendment, even though it had been passed by a margin of seventy percent (although the amendment was later reinstated.) Opponents of the FMA argued that no federal court has ever ordered a state to permit same-sex marriage. However, on February 7, 2012 a federal appeals court in a 2-to-1 decision threw out California's voter-approved restriction on same-sex marriage (Proposition 8) saying that it violated the Equal Protection clause of the U.S. Constitution.\n\nUnder the Full Faith and Credit Clause, with certain exceptions, a state is obligated to honor the judgments and declarations of other states. While some assert that a \"license\" could be construed as a \"judgment\", the majority of legal scholars disagree. However, it is pointed out that a judgment for divorce is required to be honored because judgments are required to be enforced by out-of-state jurisdictions, regardless of whether those judgments are against the public policy of the out state forum (see \"Williams v. North Carolina\", 317 U.S. 287 (1942) (the case also stated that there is no \"authority which lends support to the view that the full faith and credit clause compels the courts of one state to subordinate the local policy of that state, as respects its domiciliaries, to the statutes of any other state\")). Because of the intricacies of family law and the mobility of married couples, the recognition of marriages in other states varies. The need for clarification on state uniformity in this issue requires a constitutional amendment at the federal level, particularly considering there will be a flood of marriages in out-of-state jurisdictions for purposes of obtaining a same-sex marriage license.\n\nFMA proponents argue that opposite-sex marriage in the United States has been given special legal protection. This protection has historically been granted only to the unique institution of marriage as the cradle for the family and to legitimize lines of inheritance. Proponents of FMA argue that same-sex marriage advocates want to disregard federalism and use the judicial system to make same-sex marriage legal nationwide, which only the Federal Marriage Amendment can forestall.\n\nOn April 2, 2014, the Alabama House of Representatives adopted a joint resolution calling for an Article V convention to draft an amendment to the federal Constitution to define marriage as the union of only one man and only one woman in all jurisdictions of the United States.\n\nPolling on the subject has fluctuated widely, with opposition for such an amendment increasing steadily for more than a decade. Beginning in 2010 polls have found majority support for legal recognition of same-sex marriage. A Gallup poll conducted in May 2014 found that 55% of Americans support allowing marriage for same-sex couples, the largest percentage ever measured by the organization. The same poll found only 42% opposed, and 4% had no opinion on the issue.\n\nA 2012 Fox News poll found that 38% of American voters support a constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage, while 53% oppose. A 2012 United Technologies/National Journal Congressional Connection poll found that only 24% of Americans agreed that Congress should \"pass a constitutional amendment to ban same-sex marriage in every state regardless of state law.\"\n\nA 2011 AP-NCC poll found that 48% of Americans said they would favor such an amendment defining marriage as between a man and a woman, with about 40% strongly favoring such a change. However, 55% believe the issue should be handled at the state level.\n\nA 2006 APR poll found that 33% of Americans favored amending the U.S. Constitution to ban same-sex marriage, while 49% felt each state should make its own laws on marriage, and 18% were unsure. In May 2006, a Gallup poll found that 50% of Americans would favor amending the federal Constitution to ban same-sex marriage, while 47% were opposed, and 3% were undecided or did not respond. An ABC News poll that year found that 42% of Americans supported amending the U.S. Constitution, banning same-sex marriage.\n\nA 2003 Wirthlin poll found that 57% of Americans supported a constitutional amendment to define marriage as the union of a man and a woman.\n\nPublic opinion varies widely between different states. Only 2 states, Mississippi and Alabama, had public opinion generally more opposed to same sex marriage than in favour in 2017, with only Alabama having an absolute majority, 51%, opposed; in Mississippi, there was plurality opposition. In Louisiana, Tennessee, North Carolina, and West Virginia, there was plurality support; in all other states, there was absolute majority support. The lowest approval of same sex marriage was 41% in Alabama. The highest was 80% in Vermont and Massachusetts. With 48 states more in favour of same sex marriage than opposed, and 44 with absolute majorities in favour, this amendment is very unlikely to ever pass.\n\n"}
{"id": "23814753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23814753", "title": "Good-faith provisions (2002 US farm bill)", "text": "Good-faith provisions (2002 US farm bill)\n\nThe good-faith provisions, enacted in the 2002 farm bill (P.L. 107–171, Sec. 1613), allow the USDA to forgive a participant from the loss of commodity and conservation program benefits when it is determined that the participant either tried but failed to fully comply with program requirements, or relied on faulty (incorrect) advice from the USDA. This provision applies to conservation and commodity programs, but not to credit or crop insurance programs.\n"}
{"id": "322892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=322892", "title": "Government of the 9th Dáil", "text": "Government of the 9th Dáil\n\nThe 9th Dáil was elected at the 1937 general election on 1 July 1937 and first met on 21 July when the 8th Executive Council was appointed. The 9th Dáil lasted for 351 days.\n\nThe 8th Executive Council of the Irish Free State (21 July – 29 December 1937) was formed by the Fianna Fáil party.\n\nThe government positions are listed in alphabetical order, rather than in terms of seniority.\n\nThe 1st Government of Ireland (29 December 1937 – 30 June 1938) was formed by the Fianna Fáil party. Under the terms of the 1937 Constitution of Ireland, the 8th Executive Council of the Irish Free State became the 1st Government of Ireland. The offices of President of the Executive Council and Vice-President of the Executive Council were abolished, replaced by the offices of Taoiseach and Tánaiste respectively. There was no new election and no change in the personnel of the Government.\n\nThe government positions are listed in alphabetical order, rather than in terms of seniority.\n\n"}
{"id": "5323078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5323078", "title": "Haj subsidy", "text": "Haj subsidy\n\nThe Haj subsidy was a subsidy that was given to Indian Muslim Hajj pilgrims by the Government of India in form of discounted Air fares on Indian Government owned Air India. The program has its origins in British colonial era. In post-colonial era, the Government of India expanded the program in 1959 with the Hajj Act. The subsidy initially applied to Indian Muslim pilgrims traveling for religious reasons to Saudi Arabia, Syria, Iraq, Iran and Jordan. Haj subsidy started in 1954, as an idea initiated by the then government, with flights between Mumbai and Jeddah. Additional flight legs were added over the years, and since 1984, all Haj traffic has been shared by Air India and Saudia, the national carriers of India and Saudi Arabia. The monopoly of these airlines has proven the most contentious point of the subsidy with some Muslims objecting to it by claiming that the real beneficiary is Air India as the subsidy is actually a discount on an overpriced air fare. There have also been requests by Muslims to withdraw subsidy including some Muslim Parliament members as it is against Islam even it was beneficial.\n\nSince 2000, over 1.5 million Muslims have used the subsidy; since 2008, over 120,000 Indian Muslim every year make use of the subsidy. The Hajj subsidy includes an airfare subsidy as well as assistance to Muslim pilgrims for domestic travel to reach specially designed Haj departure airport terminals, meal, medical care and lodging assistance provided by the Government of India. The average airfare subsidy was about per Muslim pilgrim in 2008; while the average non-airfare financial assistance was per pilgrim. The total subsidy provided by the Government of India was US$1,815 per Muslim pilgrim in 2008. In a Central Haj Committee meeting in November 2017, it was decided that Haj subsidy will be completely phased out in 2018 and funds will be utilised on educational programmes especially for girl children of the minority community.On 16th January 2018 Union minister for minority affairs said that the Hajj subsidy has been completely taken off (Rs 700crore) and this amount will be made used for educational purposes of the children belonging to minority.\n\nIn May 2012, the Supreme Court of India bench, composed of Altamas Kabir and Ranjana Desai, ordered the government to end the practice by 2022. \"We direct the Central government to progressively reduce the amount of subsidy so as to completely eliminate it within a period of 10 years from today,\" said a bench of Justices Aftab Alam and Ranjana P Desai.\n\"The subsidy money may be more profitably used for uplift of the community in education and other indices of social development,\" said Justice Alam, who wrote the order. The court said it has no authority to speak on the minority community's behalf and that it would be presumptuous to tell the Muslims what was a good or bad religious practice even though it cited Quran to say that haj pilgrimage was mandatory only for those who could afford the expenses for traveling, food and accommodation.\n\nThe Haj subsidy traces its origins to the British colonial era. In 1932, the British colonial government enacted The Port Haj Committees Act, which provided for government funded Haj Committee and named Bombay and Calcutta as two embarkation points for Haj by Muslims in British India. Along with Muslim Personal Law (Shariat) Application Act of 1937, the Haj Committees Act was one of a series of laws passed by the British colonial government to address Muslim demands in a riot torn, pre-partition South Asia. The colonial government also granted a monopoly for sea-based Haj pilgrimage by South Asian Muslims to Mogul Line ships, owned by the British company Turner Morrison & Co. Ltd.\n\nIn 1959, Indian government repealed and replaced the 1932 Act, enacting \"Haj Committee Act\", to establish a Committee in the Port of Bombay for assisting Muslim pilgrims to Saudi Arabia, Syria, Iraq, Iran and Jordan and for matters connected therewith. The purpose of this Act was to manage all affairs of pilgrims like disseminating information, to negotiate travel arrangements, arranging guides, helping the needy and to address grievances of pilgrims. Article 16 of the 1959 law also created a taxpayer financed Haj Fund to cover overhead expenses.\n\nThe Haj subsidy was modified in 1973, when the Indian government abolished sea travel as a means of making the Hajj for two reasons - rising oil prices after formation of OPEC and a ship accident that killed 39 pilgrims in June 1973 during the government managed Haj trip. The government of India replaced the means of travel to Saudi Arabia from ships to aircraft. The government simultaneously increased the subsidy to cover the difference between sea and air fares.\n\nSince 1994 the round trip cost to Jeddah, Saudi Arabia has been fixed at per pilgrim, and the government has footed the rest of the bill. In 2007 the government spent per passenger. In the year 2009 the cost was . \nMinistry of Civil Aviation provides subsidy for air travel to the pilgrims through the Haj Committee of India. The amount on air travel charged per pilgrim during Haj 2014 was Rs. 35,000/- whereas the actual air fare ranged from Rs. 63,750 to Rs. 1,63,350 depending on the embarkation point in India which were always higher than normal charges of air tickets. For Haj-2015, an amount of Rs. 42,000/- will be charged as airfare from each pilgrim performing Haj through HCOI.\nThe subsidy amount extended was Rs.836.56 crores in 2012 to Rs. 680.03 crores in 2013. In 2014, it has further reduced to Rs. 533 crores.\n\nIn 2012, the Supreme Court of India ordered that Haj subsidy must end by 2022. The Supreme Court found that Hajj by Indian Muslims is funded to a substantial extent by the Indian Government. The Court ruled that this subsidy is not only unconstitutional but inconsistent with the teachings of Quran. The Court cited Quran verse 97 in Surah 3, Al-e-Imran ordains as under: \"In it are manifest signs (for example), the Maqam (place) of Ibrahim (Abraham); whosoever enters it, he attains security. And Hajj (pilgrimage to Makkah) to the House (Ka’bah) is a duty that mankind owes to Allah, those who can afford the expenses (for one’s conveyance, provision and residence); and whoever disbelieves [i.e. denies Hajj (pilgrimage to Makkah), then he is a disbeliever of Allah], then Allah stands not in need of any of the Alamin (mankind, jinn and all that exists).\"\n\nThe Court directed the Central Government to progressively reduce the amount of Haj subsidy and abolish it by 2022. The Court, in its 2012 order, said the Centre should invest that amount in education and other development measures for the minority community. also directed the Indian government to stop providing Hajj subsidies to Muslims identified by central government as \"very important person\" (VIP), \"very very important person\" (VVIP), and the special \"dignitaries and eminent persons\" nominations of 3,000 Muslims per year under so-called Goodwill Delegation to Saudi Arabia.\n\nIn August 2010, the Minority Affairs Ministry formally opposed providing subsidy for Haj pilgrimage, saying the scheme, was contrary to the teachings of Islam. The Government of India has proposed that starting from 2011, the amount of government subsidy per person will be decreased, and by 2017 will be ended completely. (Instead, \"a premium would be charged from better-off Hajis to cross-subsidise the travel cost for the less well-off Hajis\".)\n\nThe Centre had informed the Supreme Court that it had decided to restrict Haj pilgrimage at government subsidy to Muslims only as a \"once in a lifetime\" affair as against the existing policy of \"once in five years\". In an affidavit filed before the apex court, the government said the new guidelines have been framed to ensure that priority is given to those applicants who have never performed Haj. The apex court was hearing an appeal filed by the Centre challenging a Bombay high court judgement which had directed the Ministry of External Affairs to allow certain private operators to operate the services of 800 of the 11,000 pilgrims earmarked under the VIP quota subsidised by the government. Earlier, the bench had pulled up the Centre's practice of \"politicising\" the annual Haj pilgrimage by permitting official delegations to accompany the pilgrims, for which the government offers huge subsidy, saying, \"It's a bad religious practice.\"\n\nOn 27 July 2012, the Supreme Court declined Centre's request to defer till next year its 23 July order down sizing the government's discretionary quota to 300 from the proposed 5,050 seats and had hoped these would be allotted on \"reasonable basis\".\n\nThe subsidy had been reduced from Rs. 685 crore in 2011 to Rs 200 crore by 2017. It was stopped by the government from 2018 onwards and will be used instead for education of Muslim girls. Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi confirmed it had been withdrawn.\n\nConsiderable criticism has been levelled against this practice, both by Hindu organisations opposed to state funding of private pilgrimage outside India and by Muslim pressure groups. As an example of the latter, Mohib Ahmad contends that even Air India's subsidised fare is higher than competing airlines' ordinary fare. However, the government has continued offering the Haj subsidy despite protests from the Muslim community at large. Syed Shahabuddin claims that Air India's rising costs for travel, and the consequent increases in the Government of India's subsidy, have resulted partly from differences in foreign exchange rates beyond the airline's control. He suggests charter fares should be set at two-thirds of regular IATA fares, but points out that the Haj has higher costs than other charters because two empty flights are required to return the aircraft to India and to position the aircraft in Arabia for the pilgrims' return journey. Shahabuddin maintains that the subsidy ought to be phased out because Hindus view the subsidy as preferential treatment of India's Muslim minority. Zafarul Islam Khan states that,\"Muslims in general are not in favour of the Hajj subsidy. We consider the subsidy as a subsidy to Air India and not to the Muslim community.\"\n\nSyed Ahmed Bukhari, the Shahi Imam of Delhi's Jama Masjid mosque, said a decade was far too long for the subsidy to be phased out. \"It should be done away with within a year,\" he told reporters.\nSalman Khurshid, minister for minority affairs and a member of the Congress party, which heads the coalition government, expressed no surprise about the court's decision, telling reporters that discussions to \"roll back the Haj subsidy\" had been under way for four years. \nAsaduddin Owaisi, a member of parliament from the city of Hyderabad said, this amount of subsidy is to simply being a subsidy for Air India. Ticket prices would be far lower, he said yesterday, if Air India's monopoly were broken and pilgrims simply bought their own, unsubsidised tickets on other airlines.\n\nOther Muslim leaders have argued that the Hajj subsidy is \"un-Islamic\" and that Hajj money should be invested in education and health instead. Maulana Mahmood A. Madani, a member of the Rajya Sabha and general secretary of the Jamiat-e-Ulema-e-Hind, declared that the Hajj subsidy is a technical violation of Islamic Sharia, since the Koran declares that Hajj should be performed by Muslims using their own resources. Influential Muslim lobbies in India have regularly insisted that the Hajj subsidy should be phased out as it is UnIslamic. Praveen Togadia of Vishwa Hindu Parishad has argued that the government sponsored Haj subsidy is provided from taxes of Hindus to pay for Muslim religious pilgrimages, and demanded that it be abolished or similar grants be extended to Hindus.\n"}
{"id": "21842370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21842370", "title": "Hofmeister (office)", "text": "Hofmeister (office)\n\nIn medieval Europe, within the Holy Roman Empire, a Hofmeister (literally \"court-master\" or \"house-master\" in German; ; , , , ; ; ) was an official who acted as an aide to royalty or to a senior nobleman or cleric. Later it became a term for a schoolmaster who looked after the welfare of students in addition to their education.\n\nA \"Hofmeister\" was one of the highest offices in the courts of German emperors and kings, and also existed in other princely courts and the courts of smaller dynasties. His official role was initially in the direction of the royal household and serving privately on the monarch's person.\nIn the 15th century it became a government office and in the German princely courts finally became equivalent to a privy counsellor or cabinet minister, and sometimes as something like the Master of the Household in the modern British royal court.\n\nA \"Hofmeister\" was also the title given to someone who acted as an \"adlatus\" or aide to his abbot in a monastery. \n\nLater a \"Hofmeister\" could also be a house-tutor, also responsible for the care of his students beyond their education. Even now, in some areas, an administrator for a greater good is known as a \"hofmeister\" when he would otherwise be called a \"house-tutor\".\n\nIt gave its name to \"Der Hofmeister\", a play by Jakob Michael Reinhold Lenz.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19429050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19429050", "title": "Inorodtsy", "text": "Inorodtsy\n\nIn the Russian Empire, inorodtsy (singular: inorodets, Literally meaning \"of different descent/nation\") was an ethnicity-based category of population. Informally, the term referred to non-Russian (in the broad sense) population of the empire. In strict legal sense it referred for certain indigenous ethnicities of non-European descent specifically listed in the corresponding code of law. \n\nThe term is sometimes translated as allogeneous (people) (cf. \"allogenes\") and sometimes as \"aliens\". The latter translation is misleading, since in most cases the term was applied to the indigenous population of Siberia, Central Asia, and Russian Far East. \n\nInitially, a legal statute was introduced for special treatment of certain peoples of Russia (including a certain degree of protection of their traditional life), for which some laws of the empire were deemed inappropriate. Over time the term acquired a pejorative connotation of \"lacking culture, uncivilized peoples\". Privileges and special treatment for \"inorodtsy\" included exemption of military service, protection of grazing lands, and religious and governmental self-administration.\n"}
{"id": "1799316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1799316", "title": "International finance", "text": "International finance\n\nInternational finance (also referred to as international monetary economics or international macroeconomics) is the branch of financial economics broadly concerned with monetary and macroeconomic interrelations between two or more countries. International finance examines the dynamics of the global financial system, international monetary systems, balance of payments, exchange rates, foreign direct investment, and how these topics relate to international trade.\n\nSometimes referred to as multinational finance, international finance is additionally concerned with matters of international financial management. Investors and multinational corporations must assess and manage international risks such as political risk and foreign exchange risk, including transaction exposure, economic exposure, and translation exposure.\n\nSome examples of key concepts within international finance are the Mundell–Fleming model, the optimum currency area theory, purchasing power parity, interest rate parity, and the international Fisher effect. Whereas the study of international trade makes use of mostly microeconomic concepts, international finance research investigates predominantly macroeconomic concepts.\n\nThe three major components setting international finance apart from its purely domestic counterpart are as follows:\n\nThese major dimensions of international finance largely stem from the fact that sovereign nations have the right and power to issue currencies, formulate their own economic policies, impose taxes, and regulate movement of people, goods, and capital across their borders.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6875652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6875652", "title": "Kirovsk, Luhansk Oblast", "text": "Kirovsk, Luhansk Oblast\n\nKirovsk (, ) is a city in Luhansk Oblast (province) of Ukraine. It is incorporated as a city of oblast significance. Population: .\n\nThe populated place was founded in 1764 as a village Golubovka by the Russian colonel and a native of Serbia Peter Golub. Its history follows closely the history of industrial development in the Eastern Ukraine. \n\nThe town grew when coal mines were set up in the area and the village was known as a settlement Golubovskiy Rudnik; reaching its peak size in the 1980s. When the area was recaptured from Nazi Germany in 1944, the settlement was renamed as Kirovsk after the Russian mayor of Leningrad. In 1962 the settlement was granted the city rights. \n\nThe landscape around the town still has pyramid-shaped manmade hills, they are the by-products of the coal mine development and make the area look somewhat surreal. The best time to visit Kirovsk is August; a few national and local holiday celebrations take place during this month, such as the Independence Day and the Coal Miner Day. During the holidays the nightlife is booming; there are live concerts performed by regional, sometimes national, artists on the town stadium with many festivities in the town park. The town's population would grows noticeably during the holidays when many friends and families come to visit.\n\nPopular outdoor activities are hunting in the prairies surrounding Kirovsk and fishing on the nearby lakes. Local terrain is very hilly and has many roads and paths that makes it perfect for mountain biking. The area has a few historic sites that include beautiful churches, a museum and a World War II memorial. Town swimming pool is popular among locals and has a gym. Most popular nightlife destinations are the small cafes and the discothèque in the town park that are open only during the summer.\n\nSince 2014, Kirovsk has been located on the territory of the Luhansk People's Republic and is not controlled by Ukrainian authorities. The city was renamed to Holubivka by Ukrainian authorities, however, the Luhansk People's Republic does not recognize this name.\n\nAs of the Ukrainian Census of 2001:\n\n\n\nThe Kirovsk Municipality represented by the Kirovsk City council consists of two urban-like settlements (towns, Donetskyi and Krynychanske [Chervonohvardiyske]) and two rural settlements (hamlets, Krynychne and Tavrychanske) that belonged to Chervonohvardiyske Municipality.\n"}
{"id": "31093994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31093994", "title": "List of LGBT organizations that affiliate with political parties", "text": "List of LGBT organizations that affiliate with political parties\n\nThis is a list of LGBT organizations affiliated with political parties. For groups whose primary purpose is campaigning for the legal rights of LGBT people, please see \"List of LGBT rights organizations\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33372805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33372805", "title": "List of Privy Counsellors of Ireland", "text": "List of Privy Counsellors of Ireland\n\nThis is a List of Privy Counsellors of Ireland appointed between the accession of Charles II in 1660 and the creation of the Irish Free State in 1922, when the council effectively ceased to exist. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47292139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47292139", "title": "List of cabinets of Northern Cyprus", "text": "List of cabinets of Northern Cyprus\n\nThis is a list of the Cabinets of the government of Northern Cyprus since 26 August 1974, the establishment of the Autonomous Turkish Cypriot Administration.\n\n"}
{"id": "26457380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26457380", "title": "Local knowledge problem", "text": "Local knowledge problem\n\nIn economics, the local knowledge problem is the observation that the data required for rational economic planning are distributed among individual actors, and thus unavoidably exist outside the knowledge of a central authority.\n\nFriedrich Hayek described this distributed local knowledge:\n\nToday it is almost heresy to suggest that scientific knowledge is not the sum of all knowledge. But a little reflection will show that there is beyond question a body of very important but unorganized knowledge which cannot possibly be called scientific in the sense of knowledge of general rules: the knowledge of the particular circumstances of time and place. It is with respect to this that practically every individual has some advantage over all others because he possesses unique information of which beneficial use might be made, but of which use can be made only if the decisions depending on it are left to him or are made with his active coöperation. We need to remember only how much we have to learn in any occupation after we have completed our theoretical training, how big a part of our working life we spend learning particular jobs, and how valuable an asset in all walks of life is knowledge of people, of local conditions, and of special circumstances. To know of and put to use a machine not fully employed, or somebody's skill which could be better utilized, or to be aware of a surplus stock which can be drawn upon during an interruption of supplies, is socially quite as useful as the knowledge of better alternative techniques. And the shipper who earns his living from using otherwise empty or half-filled journeys of tramp-steamers, or the estate agent whose whole knowledge is almost exclusively one of temporary opportunities, or the arbitrageur who gains from local differences of commodity prices, are all performing eminently useful functions based on special knowledge of circumstances of the fleeting moment not known to others.\nBecause this distributed knowledge, while incomplete, is essential to economic planning, its necessity is cited as evidence in support of the argument that economic planning must be performed in a similarly distributed fashion by individual actors. In other words, economic planning by a central actor (e.g. a government bureaucracy or a central bank) necessarily lacks this information because, as Hayek observed, statistical aggregates cannot accurately account for the universe of local knowledge:\nOne reason why economists are increasingly apt to forget about the constant small changes which make up the whole economic picture is probably their growing preoccupation with statistical aggregates, which show a very much greater stability than the movements of the detail. The comparative stability of the aggregates cannot, however, be accounted for—as the statisticians occasionally seem to be inclined to do—by the \"law of large numbers\" or the mutual compensation of random changes. The number of elements with which we have to deal is not large enough for such accidental forces to produce stability. The continuous flow of goods and services is maintained by constant deliberate adjustments, by new dispositions made every day in the light of circumstances not known the day before, by B stepping in at once when A fails to deliver. Even the large and highly mechanized plant keeps going largely because of an environment upon which it can draw for all sorts of unexpected needs; tiles for its roof, stationery for its forms, and all the thousand and one kinds of equipment in which it cannot be self-contained and which the plans for the operation of the plant require to be readily available in the market.\nAs such, the local knowledge problem is a microeconomic counterargument to macroeconomic arguments that favor central planning and regulation of economic activity.\n\nThe Wikipedia library itself represents a tool which Jeffrey A. Tucker considers the \"realization of Hayek's solution to the localized knowledge problem\". In economic terms, Wikipedia is a platform that created a market of knowledge. In this platform reliable information is gathered from individual, distributed agents; local knowledge becomes public knowledge. Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales explains this further: \"the old way of gathering reliable information was to gather it from the outside in, and then the expert sorted through what is valuable and became the distribution source. The new way gives opportunities for anyone who knows anything to contribute to building.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "226115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226115", "title": "London Psychogeographical Association", "text": "London Psychogeographical Association\n\nThe London Psychogeographical Association (LPA), sometimes referred to as the \"London Psychogeographical Committee\", is an organisation devoted to psychogeography. The LPA is perhaps best understood in the context of psychogeographical praxis.\n\nThe LPA was first mentioned in 1957 by the British artist Ralph Rumney, as one of the organisers of the \"First Exhibition of Psychogeography\" in Brussels, which included his work. According to many accounts the group (which was also referred to as the London Psychogeographical Institute, Society or Committee) eventually merged into the Situationist International. Rumney was in fact the only member of the 'Association'.\n\nIn the 1990s, the LPA was reinvoked as the LPA East London Section by Fabian Tompsett, using the pseudonym Richard Essex, who published a series of newsletters and pamphlets under its name, as well as the writers grouped around the multiple user name Luther Blissett, including Stewart Home. Activities of the ELS also included trips to destinations of psychogeographical interest and the organisation of three sided football matches.\n\nThis version of the LPA has been described by the writer Iain Sinclair, whose work is often described as psychogeographical, as useful in \"branding\" that kind of practice.\n\nIn 1994 Barry Hugill wrote an article for \"The Observer\" covering the LPA. He depicted their ideas as \"so cranky that to mention Mr Ackroyd's name in the same breath is to invite a writ.\" However he also states that \"the psychogeographers fear that in 2000 there may be an attempt to perpetuate patriarchy through the ritual murder of a top member of royalty.\" \n\nThe work of Luther Blissett, Stewart Home and other psychogeographical groups is said to involve the issuing of numerous leaflets and letters under a series of aliases, both personal and organisational, and the description of interactions, including collaborations and feuds, between both these and other, real people and groups (for example between Luther Blissett and the parapolitical researcher Larry O'Hara).\n\nThe last LPA Newsletter was issued around the year 2000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47323396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47323396", "title": "Manuel António de Sousa", "text": "Manuel António de Sousa\n\nManuel António de Sousa (10 November 1835 in Mapuçá, Goa, Portuguese India – 20 January 1892 in Portuguese Mozambique), also known as Gouveia, was a Portuguese merchant of Goan origin and military captain of Manica and Quiteve (Kiteve).\"'\n\nManuel António de Sousa was born in Mapuçá, Bardez municipality (Goa) in 1835. He was the son of Félix de Sousa, landlord and proprietor, and D. Doroteia Tomásia Mascarenhas. He studied at the Rachol Seminary in Salcete, Goa, until he reached the age of 16.\n\nIn 1853 he emigrated to Zambézia, to assist in the administration of the estate of his uncle Félix Mascarenhas. On his arrival in Portuguese Mozambique, he married his cousin, Maria Anastácia Mascarenhas, the only daughter of his uncle. He became established as a businessman in the Sena region. Speedily, he made a fortune in the ivory trade and gained power in the region. Armed elephant hunters formed the core of his personal militia. \n\nHe won a reputation for his loyalty both to the governor-general and the Kingdom of Portugal, and relentlessly fought the chiefs and indigenous kings to expand his personal empire. In 1856 he took part in the war of succession of the local kingdom of Gaza and settled in the mountains of Gorongosa, where he established the basis of an aringas system which, together with his private army, was used to defend his interests.\n\nSeveral times Gouveia's forces helped the Portuguese official forces their battles, particularly in campaigns against the Bonga.\n\nIn 1863, on account of the services rendered, he succeeded Isidoro Correia Pereira as the chief captain of Manica and Quiteve (Kiteve).\n\nDuring his absence from Sena, to receive the commission, his position in Gorongosa was taken by Umzila, the winner of the Gazaland throne winner, and only at a cost could he recover the territories.\n\nAround 1874 he was recognized as the Lord of Manica, and married the daughter of the Báruè king. Their son was later recognized as king of that region.\n\nManuel António de Sousa became a close friend of artillery captain Joaquim Carlos Paiva de Andrada, one of the mentors of the Companhia de Moçambique. A raid in support of the Mutassa chief, on land disputed by Cecil Rhodes's British South African Company, led to them being taken prisoner by the police of that company, which resulted in a diplomatic conflict between the Portuguese and British Empires. They were eventually released following the intervention of the Portuguese government.\n\nDuring his arrest a rumour surfaced that he had been killed, and this led to an agitation among the Báruè population. Gouveia died in combat while trying to regain control of Báruè.\n\nMalyn Newitt describes Manuel António de Sousa as \"a new name ... beginning to be heard in the 1850s\" who was to become \"in some ways the greatest of the \"muzungo\" warlords, but he did not belong to a traditional Zambesian family and cannot strictly be called Afro-Portuguese. In Portuguese parlance he was a \"Canarin\", an Indian from Goa.\" (p 288) Newitt writes that Sousa \"made a fortune in ivory trading and his armed elephant hunters formed the nucleus of a private army which he repeatedly made available to the Portuguese authorities during the Zambesi wars.\" (p 288) He is said to have built up the reputation of working with the government and being a loyal subject of Portugal while \"ruthlessly building up his own private empire on the fringes of the Portuguese colony.\" (p 289)\n\nSouza took advantage of the death of Gazaland king Soshangane in 1856, and the subsequent succession dispute, to establish himself in the interior in Gorongosa. Around 1875, says Newitt, \"Souza (sic) had by that time become as important a figure as the Gaza king in the politics of the area.\"\n\nOn 28 November 1960 a statue of Manuel António de Sousa sculpted by was inaugurated in the north Goa town of Mapuçá, in commemoration of the 125th anniversary of his birth. This statue was destroyed on 15 December 1961 by a bombing just prior to the military action that led to the integration of Goa into the Indian Union.\n\n"}
{"id": "17748231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17748231", "title": "Ministry of Education, Universities and Research (Italy)", "text": "Ministry of Education, Universities and Research (Italy)\n\nThe Ministry of Education, Universities and Research (in or MIUR) is the ministry of the Italian government for the national education system, the Italian universities and research agencies. The current Italian Minister of Education is Marco Bussetti.\n\nIn 1988, the Ministero dell'Università e della Ricerca was split off from the Ministry of Public Education. In the first Romano Prodi cabinet the two were merged back into the Ministero della Pubblica Istruzione, Università, Ricerca Scientifica e Tecnologica, then as the Ministero dell'istruzione, dell'università e della ricerca (MIUR) in the second and third Silvio Berlusconi cabinets. The two were re-separated in the second Prodi cabinet of 17 May 2006, but then re-merged in the fourth Berlusconi cabinet of 7 May 2008.\n\n\nThe three Departments carry out policies dictated by the Ministry and form the body which directs and programs educational policy.\n\nRegional education \"uffici\", which are autonomous administrative centres, carrying out the instructions of the Departments, directly supporting individual schools, and articulating the policies on the ground.\n\n"}
{"id": "12960621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12960621", "title": "Model Arab League", "text": "Model Arab League\n\nModel Arab League, also known as MAL, is a multi-regional model competition in which high school and university students from across the world learn about and compete as representatives from Member States of the Arab League. Participants are encouraged to use the experience to hone their skills in public speaking and diplomacy, in addition to the primary goal of learning about the politics and history of the Arab world. In the United States, the competitions are administered by The National Council on U.S.-Arab Relations (NCUSAR). Outside the United States, the University of Peloponnese hosts the Corinth Model Arab League and the American University in Cairo hosts the Cairo International Model Arab League (CIMAL). In the UK, the longest running Model Arab League Conference in Europe UoBMAL [previously named EuroMAL] has been run by the University of Birmingham UN Society [a UNA Youth UK Branch] since 2004.\n\nModel Arab League conferences are divided into councils that each focus on a specific area of Arab League policy. While the councils at CIMAL and other international MAL simulations tend to fluctuate, the central organization of the NCUSAR in the United States assures that most simulations within the US share common councils from year to year.\n\nThe NCUSAR-sponsored council list consists of eight councils, though not all of the councils are simulated at all models.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27878637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27878637", "title": "Monument to the Victims of the Soviet Occupation", "text": "Monument to the Victims of the Soviet Occupation\n\nThe Monument to the Victims of the Soviet Occupation () is a proposed monument in Chişinău, Moldova.\n\nA commemorative stone was unveiled on 28 June 2010, as a monument to the victims of the Soviet occupation and the totalitarian communist regime, Soviet Occupation Day in Moldova. It is located on Great National Assembly Square, formerly known as Victory Square and once home to the central monument to Lenin of Soviet Moldavia. It is prominent in front of Government House, originally the seat of the Council of Ministers of the Moldavian SSR and now of the Cabinet of Moldova. In English, the inscription on the stone reads:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35993260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35993260", "title": "Morten Kjærum", "text": "Morten Kjærum\n\nMorten Kjærum (born 30 March 1957) is a Danish lawyer, who is the new head of the Raoul Wallenberg Institute of Human Rights and Humanitarian Law in Sweden. He is also a former director of the Danish Institute for Human Rights and of the EU Agency for Fundamental Rights.\n\nKjærum obtained his degree in law from Aarhus University in 1984. He was the Head of the Danish Refugee Asylum Department from 1984–1991, and in 1991 he became director of the Danish \"Centre for Human Rights\". When the Centre closed in 2002, Kjærum became director of the newly established Institute for Human Rights at the Danish Centre for International Studies and Human Rights, where he worked until May 2008.\n\nIn March 2008 he was appointed director of the Vienna-based EU Agency for Fundamental Rights (FRA), taking up the post in June that year. In May 2013, the FRA Management Board extended his contract as Director of the Agency for another 3 years, with effect from 1 June 2013. At the end of March 2015, Kjærum left the FRA to become head of the Raoul Wallenberg Institute in Lund, Sweden.\n\nIn 2002 he became a member of the UN Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination (CERD) and in 2004 Chairman of the International Coordinating Committee of National Human Rights Institutions (ICC).\n\nIn August 2008, Kjærum received a prize from the Danish National Association for Gays and Lesbians for promoting the rights of gays and lesbians.\n"}
{"id": "732389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732389", "title": "Movement for the Survival of the Ogoni People", "text": "Movement for the Survival of the Ogoni People\n\nThe Movement for the Survival of the Ogoni People, also known as (MOSOP), is a mass‐based social movement organization of the indigenous Ogoni people of Central Niger Delta. MOSOP is the umbrella organization of currently 11 member groups representing more than 700,000 indigenous Ogoni in campaigning for social, economic and environmental justice in the Niger Delta of Nigeria. MOSOP's mandated use of non-violent methods to promote democratic principles assist Ogoni people pursue rights of self-determination in environmental issues in the Niger Delta, cultural rights and practices for Ogoni people.\n\nFounded in 1990 by Ken Saro-Wiwa, Ogoni Chiefs of MOSOP initiated efforts with the Ogoni Bill of Rights. Saro-Wiwa led its submission to the government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the United Nations Working Group on Indigenous Peoples in Geneva.\n\nThe Movement for the Survival of the Ogoni People began as a struggle against the exploitation of natural resources of Ogoniland by Shell Oil Company, a subsidiary of Royal Dutch Shell, when in 1957 its Nigerian operations, Shell Nigeria, known as Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited (SPDC), struck oil in the Niger River Delta.\n\nCommunities of the Niger River Delta which had sustained their economy on farming and fishing, saw the takeover of their land by multinational oil companies was causing devastating environmental degradation. Saro-Wiwa called it an 'ecological war'.\n\nThe Ogoni country has been completely destroyed by the search for oil... Oil blowouts, spillages, oil slicks, and general pollution accompany the search for oil... Oil companies have flared gas in Nigeria for the past thirty three years causing acid rain... What used to be the bread basket of the delta has now become totally infertile. All one sees and feels around is death. Environmental degradation has been a lethal weapon in the war against the indigenous Ogoni people.\n\n—Ken Saro-Wiwa, Interview on Channel 4 (U.K.) on November 15, 1995\nBronwen Manby, then researcher in the Africa Division of Human Rights Watch, documented in July 1997 that \"according to the official estimates of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), based on the quantities reported by the operating companies, approximately 2,300 cubic meters of oil are spilled in 300 separate incidents annually. It can be safely assumed that, due to under-reporting, the real figure is substantially higher: conservative estimates place it at up to ten times higher. Statistics from the Department of Petroleum Resources indicate that between 1976 and 1996 a total of 4,835 incidents resulted in the spillage of at least 2,446,322 barrels (102.7 million U.S. gallons), of which an estimated 1,896,930 barrels (79.7 million U.S. gallons; 77 percent) were lost to the environment. Another calculation, based on oil industry sources, estimates that more than 1.07 million barrels (45 million U.S. gallons) of oil were spilled in Nigeria from 1960 to 1997. Nigeria's largest spill was an offshore well blowout (well drilling) in January 1980, when at least 200,000 barrels of oil (8.4 million U.S. gallons), according to oil industry sources, spewed into the Atlantic Ocean from a Texaco facility and destroyed 340 hectares of mangroves. DPR estimates were that more than 400,000 barrels (16.8 million U.S. gallons) were spilled in this incident.\"\nOgoni has suffered and continues to suffer the degrading effects of oil exploration and exploitation: lands, streams and creeks are totally and continually polluted; the atmosphere is for ever charged with hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide; many villages experience the infernal quaking of the wrath of gas flares which have been burning 24 hours a day for 33 years; acid rain, oil spillages and blowouts are common. The result of such unchecked environmental pollution and degradation are that (i) The Ogoni can no longer farm successfully. Once the food basket of the eastern Niger Delta, the Ogoni now buy food (when they can't afford it); (ii) Fish, once a common source of protein, is now rare. Owing to the constant and continual pollution of our streams and creeks, fish can only be caught in deeper and offshore waters for which the Ogoni are not equipped. (iii) All wildlife is dead. (iv) The ecology is changing fast. The mangrove tree, the aerial roots of which normally provide a natural and welcome habitat for many a sea food – crabs, periwinkles, mudskippers, cockles, mussels, shrimps and all – is now being gradually replaced by unknown and otherwise useless plants. (v) The health hazards generated by an atmosphere charged with hydrocarbon vapour, carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide are innumerable.\n\n—Dr. G. B. Leton, President of MOSOP, addendum statement in the Ogoni Bill of Rights\n\nMangrove forest is particularly vulnerable to oil spills, because the soil soaks up the oil like a sponge and re-releases it every rainy season.\n\nWater contamination of local water supply resulted in fish kills and ruinous effects on farmland.\n\nA Human Rights Watch interview with Uche Onyeagocha, staff attorney, Civil Liberties Organisation (Port Harcourt), Washington, D.C., May 12, 1995, documented that members of minority groups in the Niger Delta, whose land is the source of over 90% of Nigeria's oil, especially opposed the prevailing revenue allocation formula, under which the federal, state, and local governments had almost complete discretion over the distribution of oil proceeds. 80% of Nigeria's federal government revenue comes from this resource rich region. The World Bank estimates this accrues to only 1% of the general population.\nThe Ogoni people will make representation to the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund to the effect that giving loans and credit to the Nigerian Government on the understanding that oil money will be used to repay such loans is to encourage the Nigerian government to continue to dehumanise the Ogoni people and to devastate the environment and ecology of the Ogoni and other delta minorities among whom oil is found.\nThe Ogoni people will inform the United Nations and the Organisation of African Unity that the Nigerian Constitution and the actions of the power elite in Nigeria flagrantly violate the UN Declaration of Human Rights and the African Charter of Human and Peoples Rights; and that Nigeria in 1992 is no different from Apartheid South Africa. The Ogoni people will ask that Nigeria be duly chastised by both organizations for its inhuman actions and uncivilized behaviour. And if Nigeria persists in its perversity, then it should be expelled from both organizations.\n\n—Ogoni Bill of Rights\nFormer World Bank Vice-President for Africa, Dr. Oby Ezekwesili, gave an estimation of $400 billion of Nigeria's oil revenue that was stolen or misspent from 1960 to 1999. Around 70% of the oil revenues were estimated by a Nigerian anti-corruption agency to have been wasted or lost to corruption. The Nuhu Ribadu led Task Force on Oil Revenue, produced a 146-page study covering 2002–2011. The report validated that \"Nigeria lost out on tens of billions of dollars in oil and gas revenues over that decade from cut price deals struck between multinational oil companies and government officials cut-price gas, while Nigerian oil ministers handed out licenses at their own discretion. The report alleges international oil traders sometimes buy crude without any formal contracts, and the state oil firm had short-changed the Nigerian treasury billions over the last 10 years by selling crude oil and gas to itself below market rates.\" The Ribadu report also noted in a ten-year span: \"The estimated cumulative of the deficit between value obtainable on the international market and what is currently being obtained from NLNG, over the 10 year period, amounts to approximately $29 billion.\"\n\nShell Oil's Greenwashing efforts prompted Friends of the Earth Europe, on May 8, 2007, to file simultaneous complaints in three European countries to the national advertising standards authorities of Belgium, the Netherlands, and the UK about Shell's advertisements that depicted the outline of an oil refinery emitting flowers rather than smoke and claimed that it uses its \"waste CO to grow flowers and [its] waste sulphur to make concrete\".\n\nShell Oil has maintained that the issues of pollution of the Niger Delta is brought about by illegal refining of crude oil, sabotage and theft of oil field infrastructure. Research by Amnesty International, CEHRD and Friends of the Earth provide examples of cases where Shell claimed the cause of a spill was sabotage, but this claim was subsequently called into question by other investigations or the courts. This evidence, which includes video footage of an oil spill investigation where the cause of the spill was changed, by Shell, from \"equipment failure\" to \"sabotage, following the field investigation, has been shared with Shell.\n\nUnder Nigerian law the operating company is responsible for cleaning up oil spills from its facilities, even if the spill is the result of third-party action. Therefore, the human and environmental impact of Shell's failure to properly clean up pollution cannot be defended by reference to illegal activity that, allegedly, caused the oil spills.\n\nBecause of the oil-related suffering of the Ogoni people, governmental neglect, lack of social services, and political marginalization, these concerns were placed in the context of Ogonis as \"a separate and distinct ethnic nationality\". On this basis they sought autonomy, environmental protection, control of a fair share of the revenues from their resources, and cultural rights (such as the use of their local languages).\n\nIn 1970, Ogoni Chiefs and Elders of the Ogoni Divisional Commission ( W. Nzidee, F. Yowika, N. Ndegwe, E. Kobani, O. Nalelo, Chief A. Ngei and O. Ngofa), submitted a petition to the local Military Governor as a formal complaint against Shell, then operating a joint venture with BP. It brought notice that the company was \"seriously threatening the well-being, and even the very lives\" of the Ogoni.\n\nShell's response was that the petition was an attempt to place development and other responsibilities on the company and that the \"contentions ... bear little relation to what is actually taking place\".\n\nIn July, there was a major blow-out at the Bomu oilfield in Ogoni, which continued for three weeks, causing widespread pollution and outrage. P. Badom, of the Dere Youths Association, issued a letter of protest citing:\n\"Our rivers, rivulets and creeks are all covered with crude oil\" wrote the Dere Youths Association, \"We no longer breathe the natural oxygen, rather we inhale lethal and ghastly gases. Our water can no longer be drunk unless one wants to test the effect of crude oil on the body. We no longer use vegetables, they are all polluted.\"\nThe Iko people wrote to Shell in 1980 demanding \"compensation and restitution of our rights to clean air, water and a viable environment where we can source for our means of livelihood\".\n\nIn 1987, when the Iko once again held a peaceful demonstration against Shell, the notorious Mobile Police Force (MPF), locally known as \"kill-and-go\" was called, and 40 houses were destroyed, with 350 people made homeless by the MPF's attack.\n\nIn August 1990, the Ogoni elders signed the Ogoni Bill of Rights, which rang for \"political control of Ogoni affairs by Ogoni people, control and use of Ogoni economic resources for Ogoni development, adequate and direct representation as of right for Ogoni people in all Nigerian national institutions, and the right to protect the Ogoni environment and ecology from further degradation\".\n\nMOSOP was the outgrowth of these protest demonstrations in the Delta. Goodluck Diigbo, a journalist, was the National President of the National Youth Council of Ogoni People, NYCOP. Saro-Wiwa had charged him with the responsibility of establishing seven of the ten affiliates that made up MOSOP. Before the affiliates came into being, Ken Saro-Wiwa who initiated the idea of MOSOP had attracted a mix of educated Ogoni elites and chiefs, including its first president Dr. Garrick Barile Leton . Chief E. N. Kobani became vice president of MOSOP.\n\nMOSOP succeeded in organizing its first efforts with the 1990 Ogoni Bill of Rights addressed to the Government of the Federal Republic and the People of Nigeria, General Ibrahim Babangida, the former military president of Nigeria and members of the Armed Forces Ruling Council, but received no reply to its demands for autonomy. The Ogoni lists their concerns: political autonomy to participate in the affairs of the Republic as a distinct and separate unit (by whatever name called), provided that this autonomy guarantees political control of Ogoni affairs by Ogoni people; the right to control and use a fair proportion of Ogoni economic resources for Ogoni development; adequate representations, as of right, in all Nigerian national institutions, and the right to protect the Ogoni environment and ecology from further degradation.\n\nThe Niger Delta was brought to international attention with the protest at Shell's facility in the Umuechem community of Etche, east of Port Harcourt, Rivers State on October 30 and 31, 1990. Shell specifically requested the presence of the MPF. This incident saw approximately 80 unarmed demonstrators killed and the destruction and severe damage of 495 houses by the Nigerian Mobile Police.\n\n1992\n\n1993\n\n1994\n\nOn May 21, 1994, four Ogoni chiefs (all on the conservative side of a schism within MOSOP over strategy) were murdered. Saro-Wiwa, head of the opposing faction, had been denied entry to Ogoniland on the day of the murders, but was then detained in connection with the killings. Rivers State Military Administrator Lt. Col. Dauda Komo did not wait for a judicial investigation to blame the killings on \"irresponsible and reckless thuggery of the MOSOP element\".\n\nLed by Major Paul Okuntimo of Rivers State Internal Security, who claimed to be \"searching for those directly responsible for the killings of the four Ogonis\", witnesses say that they engaged in terror operations against the general Ogoni population. Amnesty International characterized the policy as deliberate terrorism. By mid-June, 30 villages had been completely destroyed, 600 people had been detained, and at least 40 had been killed. An eventual total of around 100,000 internal refugees and an estimated 2,000 civilian deaths was recorded.\n\nKen Saro-Wiwa, N. G. Dube and Kobari Nwilewas were arrested in Port Harcourt in Rivers State in eastern Nigeria on June 21, 1993. Following their arrest, Ken Saro-Wiwa, N. G. Dube and Kobari Nwile were first transferred to Lagos, then to Owerri in Imo State and finally to Port Harcourt where they are currently in prison. The three were charged on 13 July 1993 under the Criminal Code of Eastern Nigeria in connection with their activities on behalf of the Ogoni community. Charges on six counts relating to unlawful assembly, seditious intention and seditious publication. Bail was not set and all three remanded in custody until September 20. On June 11, Saro-Wiwa's passport was confiscated at Lagos airport, preventing him from traveling to Vienna to represent MOSOP at the United Nations World Conference on Human Rights.\n\nOn November 10, 1995, nine activists from the movement, Barinem Kiobel, John Kpunien, Baribor Bera, Saturday Dobee, Felix Nwate, Nordu Eawo, Paul Levura, and Daniel Gbokoo along with playwright and Nobel Peace Prize nominee Ken Saro-Wiwa, were hanged 10 days after being convicted by the Nigerian government on charges of \"incitement to murder\" of the four Ogoni leaders. In the final address to the military-appointed tribunal, Saro-Wiwa concludes the responsibility of Shell Corporation and its actions as war crimes against the Ogoni People:\nI repeat that we all stand before history. I and my colleagues are not the only ones on trial. Shell is here on trial and it is as well that it is represented by counsel said to be holding a watching brief. The Company has, indeed, ducked this particular trial, but its day will surely come and the lessons learnt here may prove useful to it for there is no doubt in my mind that the ecological war that the Company has waged in the Delta will be called to question sooner than later and the crimes of that war be duly punished. The crime of the Company's dirty wars against the Ogoni people will also be punished.\n\n\"Excerpt from:\" \nHis death provoked international outrage and the immediate suspension of Nigeria from the Commonwealth of Nations as well as the calling back of many foreign diplomats for consultation. According to the Nigerian Medical Association's President, these were the fastest executions in the West African nation's history. Nigerian human rights activists and opposition groups had longed urged the Commonwealth and the United States to impose economic sanctions on the Nigerian government. This they argued was the opportune time to \"turn the screws on\" Nigeria's military government by boycotting its oil. The United States, which buys half of Nigeria's oil, declined through a press statement.\n\nCompelling new evidence suggests the Nigerian military killed four Ogoni elders whose murders led to the execution of the playwright and activist Ken Saro-Wiwa in 1995. The evidence also reveals that the notorious military commander Lieutenant-Colonel Paul Okuntimo, whose troops were implicated in other crimes, was in the pay of Shell at the time of the killings and was driven around in a Shell vehicle.\n\nOn January 4, 1998, Ogoni national day, the Rivers State Internal Security Task Force (RVISTF), arrests dozens of activists and raided several villages.\n\nOn November 10, 2014, MOSOP President Legborsi Saro Pyagbara, at the 19th anniversary commemoration of the \"Ogoni Martyrs\" held in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, called on the federal government to clear the late activist, Ken Saro-Wiwa, and the other nine Ogoni people executed by General Sani Abacha's government for murder. Pyagbara recalled that the UN, which monitored the trial of Saro-Wiwa and the Ogoni Nine, observed that the returned verdict did not follow any known local or international standard.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35833832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35833832", "title": "National Health Insurance Scheme", "text": "National Health Insurance Scheme\n\nNational Health Insurance Scheme refers to a health insurance program set up by the National government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "409543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=409543", "title": "New Communist Party of Britain", "text": "New Communist Party of Britain\n\nThe New Communist Party of Britain is a communist political party in Britain. The origins of the NCP lie in the Communist Party of Great Britain from which it split in 1977. The organisation takes an anti-revisionist stance on Marxist-Leninism and is opposed to Eurocommunism. Following the fall of the Soviet Union, the party signed up to the Pyongyang Declaration in 1992. It publishes a newspaper named \"The New Worker\".\n\nThe driving force behind the formation of the New Communist Party in 1977 was Sid French, who had been the CPGB's Surrey district secretary for many years. French was born into a class-conscious working class family in 1920 and joined the Young Communist League in 1934, at the age of 14. In 1941, during the Second World War, he was called up and served in the Royal Air Force. Promoted to sergeant in 1942, French was posted to Gibraltar and later to North Africa and Italy. While on active service he wrote an article for \"Labour Monthly\" about the problems facing the Gibraltarians under war conditions. In Algiers he met Henri Alleg, a French Communist journalist, who later joined the Algerian resistance against French colonialism and spent five years in prison for his activities. After postwar demobilisation French's commitment to the Communist movement led to his appointment as Secretary of the newly formed Surrey District Committee of the CPGB in 1950. He remained in that position until he resigned, together with other supporters, to establish the New Communist Party on 15 July 1977. Sid French was a member of the General and Municipal Workers Union (G&MWU) and an active co-operator. He was elected to the Political Purposes Committee of the Royal Arsenal Co-operative Society (RACS) in 1967 and elected to the RACS Members' Council in 1968.\n\nDivisions within the CPGB had emerged following the Soviet intervention to quell the Hungarian uprising in 1956 and the subsequent moves by the Nikita Khrushchev leadership in the USSR to denounce Joseph Stalin. The split within the international communist movement that eventually polarised between the positions of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union and the Communist Party of China was not a major contributing factor and the groups that supported the Chinese position had little support within the CPGB. French remained staunchly loyal to the Soviet Union though privately he opposed the Khrushchev line. What he did have in common with those who eventually left to form their own organisations was a common belief that the CPGB's policy, known as the \"British Road to Socialism\" (BRS), was a major revision of Marxist-Leninist principles and was essentially a left social democratic and reformist programme.\n\nIn the eyes of French and like-minded observers, the CPGB leadership under John Gollan used the Hungarian crisis and the denunciation of what Khrushchev called Stalin's \"cult of personality\" to weaken and divide the party as a whole. The \"British Road to Socialism\", was first revised in 1957 - the start of a process culmination in 1977 which, for French, deprived it of all revolutionary content.\n\nIn 1966, the \"Daily Worker\" was re-launched as \"The Morning Star\" - French had been among those who had campaigned against this change. The CPGB leadership's decision to support the Dubček leadership in Czechoslovakia and oppose the Soviet-led Warsaw Pact intervention in 1968 that led to Dubček's removal widened the divisions within the CPGB.\n\nIn 1964 Labour returned to power after 13 years of Conservative rule but the new government under Harold Wilson pursued policies seen by many leftists as anti-union (including an attempt to introduce \"In Place of Strife\" compulsory arbitration), while in Northern Ireland the government was seen by many in the Catholic community as supporting its oppression following the collapse of the civil rights campaign. The Tories, under Edward Heath, returned to power in 1970 with policies even more unpopular with the British left, contributing to the largest number of strikes involving the greatest number of workers in British history. Miners' strikes in 1972 and 1974 featured widespread participation from the working class and other sectors. Heath was defeated in 1974 and in the eyes of many on the British left, the second Wilson government continued where it left off.\n\nFrench and like-minded British communists saw the Wilson/Callaghan government of 1974-79 as implementing \"class collaborationist\" policies and felt this was becoming more obvious to the working class, but believed the CPGB was incapable of presenting a clear revolutionary perspective, and had no capacity to rally workers on a mass scale against the capitalist offensive. French and others believed that at a moment of profound crisis for social democracy, their party was impotent and unable to wage a struggle for communist policies.\n\nIt was during this period of struggle and change that the CPGB declined at an alarming rate. It became more isolated from the people than at any other time in its history. The decline in membership and \"Morning Star\" circulation accelerated. The Young Communist League collapsed, while the growing crisis in the party also affected the credibility of its leadership as formerly senior and influential members left its ranks. In 1976, four of the party's top engineering activists resigned: Bernard Panter, Cyril Morton, Jimmy Reid and John Tocher, who had all been members of the Political Committee. At the base of the party the crisis in organisation was even more clear. Thousands of members were no longer organised and many did not even pay their nominal 25p monthly dues.\n\nWarring camps emerged within the party. Since the 1960s a secret faction known as the \"Smith Group\" and later as the \"Party Group\" had operated within the CPGB based around the theories of the Italian communist leader Antonio Gramsci. This provided the political base for the emergence of an open Eurocommunist faction in the early 1970s. The Gollan leadership sought to prop itself up by aligning itself with the Eurocommunist forces further to their right. Within that camp was an active faction that called itself the \"Revolutionary Democratic Current\".\n\nOn the other side, a group led by former CPGB student organiser Fergus Nicholson was emerging that later became \"Straight Left\"; while French's Surrey District committee refrained from faction fighting which would have led to disciplinary action.\n\nBut the crisis came to a head the following year in the run-up to the Congress in November. The Gollan leadership had redrawn the British Road to Socialism aimed at - according to its detractors - adopting a social-democratic platform that sought the respectability and acceptance of academic and intellectual circles. The hardliners claimed it was the party's entrance fee into the reformist and social democratic traditions of the official labour movement. The publication of the draft and the beginning of the pre-Congress discussion period led to furious arguments within the party - with the majority saying that the new programme was about building a broad alliance for revolutionary social change, though implicitly or explicitly agreeing that the proposals broke with the Leninist tradition.\n\nThe Nicholson group argued that all the opposition should focus on making a stand at the November 1977 Congress. French led discussions with Nicholson and he was ready to go along with this strategy. But when it became clear that the party leadership was going to strike the first blow by expelling Sid French and a number of others in the Surrey district the formation of a new party became inevitable. On 15 July 1977 the New Communist Party was established at an emergency meeting in London called by French and other members of the Surrey district committee.\n\nSupport came largely from French's Surrey district stronghold though other supporters of his position, who had been contacted during the campaign against the new draft of the BRS, also joined immediately. But the decision to form the party in July had been made at the last moment. It took a further six weeks to organise the production of a party weekly, the New Worker, and issue the first pamphlet arguing the case for the new party.\n\nThe NCP failed to take many members in key districts of the CPGB, such as London, Scotland and South Wales in the run-up to the November CPGB Congress. There, Nicholson's supporters were overwhelmingly defeated and the new draft BRS adopted. The Nicholson group continued to oppose the CPGB leadership in an increasingly factional way while claiming that French's move had undermined the overall opposition at Congress. But the opposition had no chance of defeating the draft. Even if French's supporters had been at Congress their numbers together with Nicholson's group were still not enough to defeat the leadership bloc's support.\n\nSome 6,000 members had left the CPGB by the end of 1977 in a membership decline that would accelerate throughout the 1980s. But only a fraction of them, put at around 700, joined the NCP.\n\nSid French became the first General Secretary of the NCP and Surrey became its strongest area. The first national chairman was Joe Parker, a full-time official in the National Union of Sheet Metal Workers and Coppersmiths (NUSMWC) until he retired in 1982. Joe Parker stepped down as Party Chairman soon after but remained an active NCP member until his death in 2004.\n\nFrench died in 1979 and was succeeded by Eric Trevett. Trevett retired from full-time Party work in 1995 but remained on the Politburo of the Central Committee of the NCP as Party President, a post created in that year, until his death in September 2014.\n\nLike the rest of the British communist movement the NCP from the beginning had to deal with what they saw as ultra-leftism and right-wing deviation. All were defeated at congresses over the years and many were expelled for factionalism. In the early 1980s an extreme pro-Soviet faction called \"Proletarian\" was expelled. In the early 1990s another small group was expelled which later formed the Communist Action Group.\n\nThe party's 'Vote Labour Everywhere' strategy was changed in 2000 to support Ken Livingstone for London Mayor and this ultimately led to the biggest purge in the party's history. A vote at the central committee with a one-vote majority led to nine expulsions from the party of those opposed to the Livingstone decision for factionalism, and some subsequent resignations, including nine members of the central committee. The North West District was dissolved and altogether around 25 members were either expelled for factionalism or resigned from the party.\n\nOne of the NCP's better-known members was Ernie Trory (1913–2000), who founded the Crabtree Press to publish his political and historical writings. Three volumes, \"Between the Wars, Imperialist War\" and \"War of Liberation\", all sub-titled \"Recollections of a Communist Organiser\", cover unfolding political events from the Depression to the end of the Second World War.\n\nThe General Secretary is Andy Brooks, a founder member of the NCP and a member of the Central Committee since 1979. He had previously been international secretary, editor of the New Worker and deputy general secretary.\n\nThe NCP has never stood candidates in general or local elections and calls for support for the Labour candidates. This policy was amended in 2000 to permit support for independent Labour candidates with mass support and the NCP backed Ken Livingstone's successful bid for the London Mayorship.\n\nThe NCP is an affiliate of the Labour Representation Committee (LRC), a grass-roots membership organisation with around a thousand individual members and affiliates that was established in 2004. Four left Labour MPs are members of the LRC including the chair, John McDonnell MP. The aim of the LRC is to set up socialist groups at every level of the Labour Party to confront \"New Labour\", oppose the war in Iraq, and resist privatisation and job cuts.\n\nThe NCP is also a supporter of the Liaison Committee for the Defence of Trade Unions, a rank and file union committee supported by a number of left-leaning trade union leaders.\n\nThe NCP is opposed to the European Union and the Treaty of Rome, and calls on its supporters to boycott the European elections.\n\nThe organisational structure of the NCP consists of Fractions, Cells, District Committees, Central Committee, and Political Bureau (Politburo). The highest body of the party is the National Congress, which determines policy and elects the Central Committee.\n\nIt produces a weekly newspaper called \"The New Worker\". Content is written either internally, or comes from other sources, particularly organs of fraternal parties. It no longer has a theoretical journal, having ended publication of the \"New Communist Review\" in the mid-1990s following the death of its editor George Woolley. In the 1980s and early 1990s the NCP also published an \"Industrial Bulletin\", \"Irish Bulletin\" and \"Economic Bulletin\". It produces \"Internal Bulletin\" for members and supporters, as well as various pamphlets on different subjects.\n\nThe NCP began to internally criticise Mikhail Gorbachev's leadership of the Soviet Union in 1988 and following the dissolution of the Soviet Union the party established relations with communist and workers parties throughout the world. In the 1990s Party Congresses adopted resolutions repudiating and denouncing Nikita Khrushchev's anti-Stalin 20th Congress speech and defining its ideology around the \"great revolutionary teachers of humanity, Marx, Engels, Lenin and Stalin\" and the \"great revolutionary leaders of the struggling masses, Mao Zedong, Kim Il Sung, Fidel Castro and Ho Chi Minh\".\n\nIn April 1992 the New Communist Party was one of the initial signatories of the Pyongyang Declaration, along with 77 other communist, workers, socialist and progressive parties worldwide. Entitled \"Let Us Defend and Advance the Cause of Socialism\", the declaration was the first statement made by the international communist movement since the dissolution of the Soviet Union, and to date has been signed by around 250 parties.\n\nIn 2003 the NCP adopted an entirely new rule book, with the aim of building a monolithic party and based on the principles laid down by the old Communist International.\n\nThe party is politically closest to what it sees as anti-revisionist Communist Parties who would see the Soviet leadership from Nikita Khrushchev onwards as stepping away from socialism. Internationally it supports Cuba, China, Vietnam, Laos and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea.\n\nThe NCP regularly attends the international conferences organised by the Communist Party of Greece (KKE), and May Day events organised by the Workers Party of Belgium (PTB/PvdA).\n\nIn the UK, the NCP has very close relations with the Revolutionary Communist Party of Britain (Marxist-Leninist), despite having major programmatic differences on the question of the Labour Party and how to engage with DPRK.\n\nThe NCP is also involved in the anti-war movement, and supports the Stop the War Coalition\ndemonstrations.\n\nThe NCP has endorsed in March 2016 Grassroots Out, the cross-party movement launched to campaign in favour of leaving the European Union.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19331283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19331283", "title": "Persecution of Copts", "text": "Persecution of Copts\n\nCopts (Coptic: \"ou.Remenkīmi en.Ekhristianos\", literally: \"Egyptian Christian\") are native Egyptian Christians, usually Oriental Orthodox, who currently make up between 10 and 15% of the population of Egypt — the largest religious minority of that country. While Copts have cited instances of persecution throughout their history, Human Rights Watch has noted \"growing religious intolerance\" and sectarian violence against Coptic Christians in recent years, and a failure by the Egyptian government to effectively investigate properly and prosecute those responsible. Hundreds of Egyptian copts have been killed in sectarian clashes from 2011 to 2017, and many homes and businesses destroyed. In just one province (Minya), 77 cases of sectarian attacks on Copts between 2011 and 2016 have been documented by the Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights. The abduction and disappearance of Coptic Christian women and girls also remains a serious ongoing problem.\n\nSt. Mark the Evangelist is said to have founded the Holy Apostolic See of Alexandria and to have become its first Patriarch. Within 50 years of St. Mark's arrival in Alexandria, a fragment of New Testament writings appeared in Oxyrhynchus (Bahnasa), which suggests that Christianity already began to spread south of Alexandria at an early date. By the mid-third century, a sizable number of Egyptians were persecuted by the Romans on account of having adopted the new Christian faith, beginning with the Edict of Decius. Christianity was tolerated in the Roman Empire until AD 284, when the Emperor Diocletian persecuted and put to death a great number of Christian Egyptians. This event became a watershed in the history of Egyptian Christianity, marking the beginning of a distinct Egyptian or Coptic Church. It became known as the 'Era of Martyrs' and is commemorated in the Coptic calendar in which dating of the years began with the start of Diocletian's reign. When Egyptians were persecuted by Diocletian, many retreated to the desert to seek relief, though relief of the spirit and of its worldly desires to attain peace and unity with Christ the Creator, not escaping the persecutions. The practice precipitated the rise of monasticism, for which the Egyptians, namely St. Antony, St. Bakhum, St. Shenouda and St. Amun, are credited as pioneers. By the end of the 4th century, it is estimated that the mass of the Egyptians had either embraced Christianity or were nominally Christian.\n\nIn 451 A.D., following the Council of Chalcedon, the Church of Alexandria was divided into two branches. Those who accepted the terms of the Council became known as Chalcedonians or Melkites. Those who did not abide by the Council's terms were labeled non-Chalcedonians or Monophysites (and later \"Jacobites\" after Jacob Baradaeus). The non-Chalcedonians, however, rejected the term Monophysites as erroneous and insisted on being called Miaphysites. The majority of the Egyptians belonged to the Miaphysite branch, which led to their persecution by the Byzantine imperial authorities in Egypt. First persecutions occurred during reigns of emperors Marcian (450-457) and Leo I (457-474). This continued until the Arab conquest of Egypt. Tragic conflicts between Eastern-Orthodox Greeks and Oriental-Orthodox Copts during that era, from the middle of 5th to the middle of 7th century, resulted in permanent divisions and consequent emergence of \"anti-Eastern Orthodox\" sentiment among Copts and \"anti-Oriental Orthodox\" sentiment among Greeks.\n\nThe Muslim conquest of Egypt took place in AD 639. Despite the political upheaval, Egypt remained a mainly Christian land, but Copts lost their majority status after the 14th century. \nThis process was sped along by persecutions during and following the reign of the Fatimid caliph Al-Hakim bi-Amr Allah (reigned 996–1021). Later on Copts were forced to accept Arabic as a liturgical language by the Pope of Alexandria Gabriel ibn-Turaik.\n\nObservers note a large gap between rights for Copts and other minorities that exists under the law and what exists in practice. (For example, while in 2016 the parliament worked to pass a bill making it easier for Christians to get government permission to build churches, in practice security officials have stopped actual construction.)\n\nIn Egypt the government does not officially recognize conversions from Islam to Christianity; also certain interfaith marriages are not allowed either, this prevents marriages between converts to Christianity and those born in Christian communities, and also results in the children of Christian converts being classified as Muslims and given a Muslim education.\n\nThe government also requires permits for repairing churches or building new ones, which are often withheld. Article 235 of the 2013 draft constitution requires the next legislative body to create a law that would remove the restrictions on the building of churches. Foreign missionaries are allowed in the country only if they restrict their activities to social improvements and refrain from proselytizing.\n\nCopts complain that disputes between Christians and Muslims are often put before \"reconciliation councils\", and that these councils invariably favour Muslims. Some Copts complain that the police do not respond when crimes are committed against them. Copts also have little representation in government, leading them to fear there is little hope of progress.\n\nIn 1981, President Anwar Sadat, internally exiled the Coptic Pope Shenouda III accusing him of fomenting inter-confessional strife. Sadat then chose five Coptic bishops and asked them to choose a new pope. They refused, and in 1985 President Hosni Mubarak restored Pope Shenouda III.\n\nThe government and other Egyptian sources blame tribal behavior in rural Egypt for much of the violence.\n\nDuring Mubarak's regime (following that of Anwar Sadat), Copts were still struggling to avoid persecution but there were two appointed Coptic Ministers and one governor, in addition to one Copt (Naguib Sawiris) known as one the most successful businessmen in the world residing in Egypt, at the time. Today (early 2018) Copts face heightened persecution and marginalization as their churches get systematically attacked. Naguib Sawiris does not reside in Egypt anymore.\n\nPeriod after 2014, as the salfi doctrine gets to dominate Egypt in replacement of the unpopular MB approach to religion and state takes over. Today (early 2018) there are no Copts on Egypt's governmental cabinet versus two during Husni Mubarak's regime, nor serving as governors, nor appointed in prominent educational/scientific positions, such as of a dean for a state university.\n\n\n\nDuring this time terrorists increased the frequency of their attacks and widened it to include those whom they viewed as collaborators with the security force, launching an attack on the eve of the Adha Eid using automatic weapons killing Copts as well as Muslims.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n]Coptic women and girls are abducted, forced to convert to Islam and marry Muslim men. In 2009 the Washington, D.C. based group Christian Solidarity International published a study of the abductions and forced marriages and the anguish felt by the young women because returning to Christianity is against the law. Further allegations of organised abduction of Copts, trafficking and police collusion continue in 2017.\nIn April 2010, a bipartisan group of 17 members of the U.S. Congress expressed concern to the State Department's Trafficking in Persons Office about Coptic women who faced \"physical and sexual violence, captivity ... exploitation in forced domestic servitude or commercial sexual exploitation, and financial benefit to the individuals who secure the forced conversion of the victim.\"\n\nThe synchronization of such \"fatwas\" of Abu Islam's and similar scholars that categorize certain groups of women (basically Coptic women) as 'asking for it' just because they are not in the radical boat, or that they are opposers to the regime have been seen as unacceptable and degrading to Egyptian women in general, independent women (widows and divorced) in particular and more specifically to the Coptic women who were categorized as Crusaders, \"sharameet \"(prostitutes), lewd and willing to be raped. Salma Almasrya, an Egyptian Activist said that what the scholar has claimed comes in harmony with the official declaration from state men which blamed the female activists for the rape crimes they were subject to, then comes the un-deterred harassment on the part of the Ministry of Media for two media female interviewers in two different situations calling one (hot) on air while asking the other to (come and I will show you where!) when she asked about the freedom of expression, a phrase that was considered very offensive by the media causing many activists to believe there was a state-orchestrated terrorism against female activists by humiliation and intimidation rather than force which has been condemned by many media people around the country.\n\nThe parliamentary quota for women was removed without debate and a promised female vice-president failed to materialise, amid what political commentator Moushira Khattab called \"a radical anti-feminist sentiment\". Morsi threatened but stopped short of decriminalizing Egypt's practice of female genital mutilation, carried out on almost three-quarters of Egyptian girls, making it clear he would not tackle an issue he called \"a family matter\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5735334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5735334", "title": "Planned giving", "text": "Planned giving\n\nPlanned giving (less commonly known as gift planning ) is an area of fundraising that refers to several specific gift types that can be funded with cash, equity, or property. These gift vehicles are commonly based on United States tax law, but Canada, the United Kingdom, and other nations are beginning to establish similar laws. In the United States the specific rules of planned giving are defined by the United States Congress and the Internal Revenue Service.\n\nThe term \"planned giving\" was coined years ago by Robert F. Sharpe:\n\n\"A donor usually considers a current gift to your institution as a cash outlay now. To make a deferred gift, a person decides to give at some future date, either a number of years from now or at death. A deferred gift is a present decision to make a future gift, evidenced by a legal contract.\n\n\"While the name 'deferred giving' is best known to professionals in the field, it is not a term that communicates very much to the average donor. Therefore, we suggest the term 'planned giving.' When a person makes a planned gift, it suggests forethought.\"\n\n—\"Give & Take\", a publication of the Sharpe Group, August 1972\n\nPlanned gifts are referred to as such because they require more planning, negotiation and counsel than many other gifts. Planned gifts can result in immediate income, income to charity over time or serve to delay a gift for life or other period of time while the donor or others retain income and/or access to the assets used to fund the gift. Because of the current or future charitable benefits, a number of state and/or federal income tax, capital gains, estate and gift benefits are associated with giving in this way.\n\nParents who have a child with a disability should ensure that the inheritance they leave for their child does not affect their child's eligibility to social assistance programs such as the Ontario Disability Support Program (ODSP). A Henson trust can be useful to ensure this.\n\nEfforts to encourage planned gifts are popular among thousands of colleges, universities, hospitals, museums and community foundations in the United States. Funds generated through planned gifts are devoted to current funding needs as well as capital projects and endowments.\n\nReports published during and after the Great Depression of the 1930s indicate that planned gifts provided a higher percentage of philanthropic dollars than in times of economic prosperity. See \"Philanthropy in Uncertain Times - A Retrospective 1931-1949\" and \"Summary of Recent Research on Depression Giving,\" from the Sharpe Group.\n\nResearch shows that planned giving may become considerably more important as a type of philanthropy in the United States due to the aging Baby Boomer population. This is often referred to as the \"Great Wealth Transfer.\" See \"Philanthropy's Missing Trillions in the \"Stanford Social Innovation Review\".\n\nBy far, the most commonly utilized planned gift is the bequest of property through a person's final will. Other types include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41585571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41585571", "title": "Poale Zion", "text": "Poale Zion\n\nPoale Zion (also spelled Poalei Tziyon or Poaley Syjon, meaning \"Workers of Zion\") was a movement of Marxist–Zionist Jewish workers founded in various cities of Poland, Europe and the Russian Empire in about the turn of the 20th century after the Bund rejected Zionism in 1901.\n\nPoale Zion parties and organisations were started across the Jewish diaspora in the early 20th century. A branch of Poale Zion came into existence in New York City in 1903. Branches were formed in London and Leeds in 1903/04 and 1905 respectively and on a national basis in 1906. An Austrian group was formed in 1904, and published a newspaper, \"Yidisher Arbeyter\". In November 1905 the Poale Zion (Workers of Zion) Party was founded in Palestine and a month later the Socialist Jewish Labour Party (Poale Zion) was formed in the United States and Canada. In March 1906 the Jewish Social Democratic Labour Party (Poale Zion) was created in Russia. In 1906 a formal Poale Zion party was formed in Poltava, Ukraine, under the leadership of Ber Borochov and Itzhak Ben-Zvi, and other groups were soon formed elsewhere in Europe. A French group was formed, under the leadership of Marc Jarblum, which was influential on the SFIO and its leader Leon Blum.\n\nThe key features of the ideology of early Poale Zion were acceptance of the Marxist view of history with the addition of the role of nationalism, which Borochov believed could not be ignored as a factor in historical development. A Jewish proletariat would come into being in the land of Israel, according to Poale Zion, and would then take part in the class struggle. These views were set out in Borochov's \"Our Platform\", published in 1906.\n\nA World Union of Poale Zion was formed. The first World Congress took place in August 1907 in The Hague. Its second congress in 1909 in Kraków emphasised practical socialist projects in Palestine, further congresses followed in Vienna (1911 and 1920) and Stockholm (1919). \n\nIn Ottoman Palestine, Poale Zion founded the Hashomer guard organization that guarded settlements of the \"Yishuv\", and took up the ideology of \"conquest of labor\" (\"Kibbush Ha'avoda\") and \"Avoda Ivrit\" (\"Hebrew labor\"). The first formal congress of \"The Jewish Social Democratic Workers party in the Land of Israel- Poalei Tziyon\" was held in early 1907. Poale Zion set up employment offices, kitchens and health services for members. These eventually evolved into the institutions of labor Zionism in Israel.\n\nBy 1907, the party had 25,000 members in Russia.\n\nDuring World War I, Poale Zion was instrumental in recruiting members to the Jewish Legion. Poale Zion was active in Britain during the war, under the leadership of J Pomeranz and Morris Meyer, and influential on the British labour movement, including on the drafting (by Sidney Webb and Arthur Henderson) of the Labour Party’s War Aims Memorandum, recognising the 'right of return' of Jews to Palestine, a document which preceded the Balfour Declaration by three months. Poale Zion in Britain formally affiliated to the British Labour Party in 1920. The American party was led by veteran socialist Zionist thinker Nachman Syrkin. Whilst the Bund was forcibly disbanded in 1921, Poale Zion and Hechalutz were allowed to operate freely in the Soviet Union until 1928.\n\nPoale Zion was torn between Left and Right factions in 1919-1920, which formally split at the Poale Zion fifth world congress in Vienna in 1920, following a similar division that occurred in the Second International.\n\nThe right wing was less Marxist and more nationalist, and favoured a more moderate socialist program and supported the International Working Union of Socialist Parties to continue the work of the Second International, essentially becoming a social democratic party. The left wing faction did not consider the Second International radical enough and some accused its members of betraying Borochov's revolutionary principles (although Borochov had begun to modify his ideology as early as 1914, and publicly identified as a social democrat the year before his death). Poale Zion Left, which supported the Bolshevik revolution, continued to be sympathetic to Marxism and Communism, and attended the second and third congresses of the Communist International in a consultative capacity. They lobbied for membership, but their attempts were unsuccessful, as the internationalist communist movement under Lenin and Trotsky was opposed to Zionist nationalism. The Comintern advised individual members of Left Poale Zion to join their national Communist parties as individuals; at their 1922 Danzig conference, these terms were rejected by the party and the Comintern declared it an enemy of the workers' movement.\n\nPoale Zion Left opposed the decision by Poale Zion to rejoin the World Zionist Organization, viewing it as essentially bourgeois in character, and viewed the Histadrut as reformist and non-socialist. Aside from differing attitudes towards Zionism and Stalinism, the two wings of Poale Zion parted ways over Yiddish and Yiddish culture. The Left was more supportive of the latter, similar to the members of the Jewish Bund, while the Right bloc identified strongly with the emerging modern Hebrew movement in the early 20th century.\n\nIn Palestine, the major leaders of Poale Zion since their immigration in 1906 and 1907 had been David Ben-Gurion, who joined a local Poalei Tziyon group in 1904 as a student at the University of Warsaw, and Yitzhak Ben-Zvi, a close friend of Borochov's and early member of the Poltava group. After the split the two \"Benim\" (\"the Bens\") continued to control and direct Poale Zion Right in Palestine. The party in Palestine split into right and left wings at its February 1919 conference. In October 1919, a faction of the Left Poale Zion founded \"Mifleget Poalim Sozialistiim\" (Socialist Workers Party) which became the Jewish Communist Party in 1921, split in 1922 over the Zionist issues, with one faction taking the name Palestine Communist Party and the more anti-Zionist faction becoming the Communist Party of Palestine. The former retained its links to Poale Zion left. These two factions reunited as the Palestine Communist Party in 1923 and become an official section of the Communist International. Another faction of Poale Zion Left, aligned with the kibbutz movement Hashomer Hatzair, founded in Europe in 1919, became the Mapam party. Poale Zion Right, under Ben Gurion's leadership, formed Ahdut HaAvoda in March 1919. In January 1930 it merged with another party to become Mapai, predecessor of the modern Israeli Labor Party.\n\nIn Russia, the Poale Zion Left participated in the Bolshevik Revolution and organized a brigade of Poale Zion activists nicknamed the \"Borochov Brigade\" to fight in the Red Army. The party remained legal until 1928 when it was liquidated by the NKVD. Most other Zionist organizations had been closed down in 1919, but Poale Zion Left remained untouched because it was recognized as a Communist party. In 1919, the Communists of Poale Zion Left split to form the Jewish Communist Party which ultimately joined the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, leading to a sharp loss of membership in Russia. \n\nIn Poland, for a brief period following the war, both factions of Poale Zion were reported as legal and functioning political parties. The Polish Left party was the largest Left Poale Zion party in the world. It worked closely with the Bund in developing Yiddish schools in Poland and supporting secular Yiddish culture, although they had political differences (e.g. the Bund was more supportive of the Polish Socialist Party than LPZ). As part of the large-scale ban on Jewish political parties in post-war Poland by the Communist leadership, both Poale Zion groups were disbanded in February 1950.\n\nIn Austria, the left faction was led by Michael Kohn-Eber, who joined the Austrian Communist Party in 1938. The right faction also remained active until 1938.\n\nIn America, the right faction was dominant, and initiated the National Labor Committee for Palestine, raising money for Histadrut.\n\nGlobally, Poale Zion, under the leadership of Shlomo Kaplansky was involved in the 1921 formation of the centrist International Working Union of Socialist Parties, then between 1923 and 1930 the World Union of Poalei Zion (i.e. the PZ right) joined the Labour and Socialist International (as its Palestine section). As of 1928, it claimed to have 22,500 members in branches around the world; 5,000 in Poland and the United States, 4,000 in Palestine, 3,000 in Russia, 1,000 in Lithuania, Romania, Argentina and the United Kingdom, 500 in Latvia and another 1,000 scattered across countries such as Germany, Austria, Czechoslovakia, Belgium, France and Brazil. The general secretary of the World Union of Poalei Zion at the time was Berl Locker. The World Union had a women's wing, the Women's Organization for the Pioneer Women in Palestine.\n\nIn 1932, Poale Zion's world federation merged with Hitahdut Olamit, the World Union of Hapoel Hatzair and Zeirei Zion (which had been formed in 1920), to create Ihud Olami, the World Union of Zionists-Socialists. In this period, several well-known Zionist leaders and politicians were active in Poale Zion, including Ben-Gurion, Ben-Zvi, kibbutz movement leader Yitzhak Tabenkin, Jewish Agency Executive member Shlomo Kaplansky, and future Israeli politicians Moshe Sharett and Dov Hoz.\n\nThe Holocaust-era Jewish resistance group ŻOB was formed from a coalition including Hashomer Hatzair, Dror, Bnei Akiva, the Jewish Bund, various Jewish Communist groups, and both factions of Poale Zion. Poale Zion was also active in the Anti-Fascist Bloc. \n\nSeveral notable Jewish resistance fighters during the Holocaust, particularly those involved in the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising, were members of Poale Zion. They include:\n\nAfter World War I, David Ben-Gurion integrated most of Poale Zion Right in Palestine into his Ahdut HaAvoda party, which became Mapai by the 1930s. The Poale Zion Left merged with the kibbutz-based Hashomer Hatzair Workers Party of Palestine and the urban-based Socialist League of Palestine to form Mapam in 1948, which in the 1990s merged with two smaller parties, Ratz and Shinui, to form Meretz. In 1946, a split in Mapai led to the creation of another small party, Ahdut HaAvoda - Zion Workers, which united with Mapam in 1948. In 1954, a small group of Mapam dissidents left the party, again assuming the Ahdut HaAvoda - Zion Workers name. That party eventually became part of the Alignment in a 1965 merger with Mapai (and later included Rafi and Mapam). In 1992, the Alignment became the Israeli Labour Party.\n\nSeveral youth movements have emerged out of Poale Zion: the Marxt Hashomer Hatzair (the largest, with 70,000 members on the eve of the Holocaust), the socialist Habonim Dror, the Left Poale Zion's Yugent, and Zeire Zion.\n\nIn North America, Poale Zion founded the HeHalutz movement, the Farband and Habonim Dror, and later the Labor Zionist Organization of America, which merged with other groups into the Labor Zionist Alliance, which rebranded itself in 2007 as Ameinu. US Poale Zion published a Yiddish newspaper, the \"Yidisher Kempfer\", and an English journal, \"Jewish Frontier\", edited by Hayim Greenberg and Marie Syrkin.\n\nIn Britain, Poale Zion rebranded itself in 2004 as the Jewish Labour Movement.\n\nInternationally, the Poale Zion right is represented within the World Zionist Organization by the World Labour Zionist Movement; the group \"to the left\" of the WLZM within the WZO is Mapam's successor, the World Union of Meretz. Meretz and Mapam are both members of the Socialist International and, since 2013, the Progressive Alliance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54813015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54813015", "title": "Resistencia Ancestral Mapuche", "text": "Resistencia Ancestral Mapuche\n\nResistencia Ancestral Mapuche (, RAM) is a separatist organization group that operates near Patagonia in Argentina and Chile, seeking to secede territories of both countries to create a Mapuche nation.\n\nIn 2012, policeman José Aigo was killed when he tried to check a truck heading to Aluminé. Two Chilean organizations belonging to RAM, \"Frente Patriótico Manuel Rodríguez\" and the \"Ejército Guerrillero de los Pobres\", took credit for the killing of the officer. However, years before, different media attributed their murder to poachers, which led to the arrest of the son of the mayor of San Martín de los Andes who would be one of the hunters who shot the policeman\n\nOne of the first attacks of 2017 was committed at the National Route 40, burning a truck. The driver, Luis Rastrelini, \ncommented that he was surprised by an improvised rock roadblock, and then was attacked by hooded men. They filled the truck with oil, and then made it explode with a molotov cocktail. Another attack took place in Bariloche. They burned two buildings, and left banners asking for the freedom of their leader, Facundo Jones Huala. Those banners featured their logo, composed by a mapuche shield and a rifle. They also attacked the estancias of the Italian clothing company Benetton Group at the Chubut Province. The watchman Evaristo Jones reported that they attacked and tortured him, stole his weapons and burned his shed, claiming that it was not an action against him but against the owners of the estancia. The organization has been accused of committing similar attacks against other employees and their families, burned forests and farming grounds, vandalized the farming vehicles and the electric service, and the vehicles in the nearby roads.\n\nOn August 1, 2017 people of the Lof Cushamen community protested for the freedom of the imprisoned member of the \nRAM, Facundo Jones Huala, blocking a road near El Maitén, and were dispersed by the Argentine National Gendarmerie. Santiago Maldonado, a protester who supported the claims of the people blocking the road, was reported missing after that. Witnesses testified before judicial authorities that Maldonado was taken by Gendarmerie agents, and with the disappearance of Maldonado the RAM became known at national level in Argentina. On August 4, a group of hooded vandals attacked the \"Casa del Chubut\" building in Buenos Aires, with some media attributing the attack to a reaction of members of the RAM. The United Nations Committee on Enforced Disappearances has urged the Argentine government to search and locate Maldonado. The prosecution is investigating the disappearance of Maldonado as a case of forced disappearance.\n\nOn 25 November, 2017 the federal forces carried out an eviction. In this context, the Albatross group of the Prefecture repressed rubber bullets and lead bullets to the members of the Lafken Winkul Mapu community. Rafael Nahuel, aged 22, died in the shooting. The autopsy confirmed that he died with a 9mm bullet, as those used by the Albatross group, ruling out a friendly fire. The Minister of Security said that the death of the young Mapuche had taken place in the context of a confrontation, and that the Mapuche possessed weapons of war. The search took place some time later, and no weapon was found. However, as the RAM kept control of the crime scene after the event, it was suspected that it could have been altered.\n\nThe RAM released their manifesto on November 11, 2014. Their goal is to establish a mapuche nation, and they do not consider themselves Argentines or Chileans. They declared themselves enemies of capitalism and the state, and reject bureaucracy and the Argentine law. They also reject the Catholic Church, as the religion of a \"winka\" god. They call themselves \"Weichafes\", a term in Mapuche language that means \"warrior\". They consider the RAM prisoners to be political prisoners, and that they are victims of state terrorism. Aiming for self-determination, they consider that the armed insurrection would be a legitimate action. They welcome the help of non-Mapuche people, as long as they follow their leadership. \n\nFacundo Jones Guala is the visible face and member of the RAM. He is currently held prisoner in Esquel, Chubut Province. He was interviewed by the TV program \"Periodismo para todos\", and said: \"There are things that I can not conceal, like my political and ideological doctrine. We support the use of political violence as a weapon of self-defense. We plan the Mapuche liberation as the reconstruction of our world. We are the armed wing of the Mapuche movement: we use molotovs, knives, sticks. More than that, we can't afford\".\n\nFacundo Jones Huala is currently held prisoner in Argentina, and is on trial on terrorism charges. Chile asked for his extradition, to judge him for similar charges, but Argentina has refused to do so. The Argentine police has tried to drive them away from the estancias of the Benetton family, but were unsuccessful so far. The mapuche \"lonkos\" Camilo Nahuelquir and Raducindo Calfupan rejected the actions of the RAM, and pointed that their actions are not endorsed by the Mapuche populations.\n"}
{"id": "2451592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2451592", "title": "Salus populi suprema lex esto", "text": "Salus populi suprema lex esto\n\nThe phrase is the state motto of Missouri, accepted, like many other states, as an element of its state seal. It also appears on many coats of arms, sometimes in variant forms such as , or . These coats of arms include the City of Salford, the London Borough of Lewisham, Eastleigh, Harrow, Lytham St. Anne's, Tipton, Mid Sussex, West Lancashire, Swinton and Pendlebury, Urmston and Willenhall; Manassas Park, Virginia, the Duquesne University School of Law, and is used as the motto of the Vlaams Belang political group in the Belgian Chamber of Representatives. The phrase is also used by the Ministry of Interior of the Slovak Republic as an element on its coat of arms. It is present in a shortened form in an engraving of Oliver Cromwell by William Faithorne.\n\nJohn Locke uses it as the epigraph in the form in his \"Second Treatise on Government\" and refers to it as a fundamental rule for government. It was the inscription on the cornet of Roundhead and Leveller William Rainsborowe during the English Civil War. This motto was also endorsed by Hobbes at the beginning of Chapter 30 of \"Leviathan\" and by Spinoza in Chapter 19 of his \"Theological-Political Treatise.\" It was frequently quoted as } since at least 1737.\n\nThe motto was featured on the masthead of the Irish medical journal Medical Press and Circular.\n\nThe Commissioned Officers Association of the U.S. Public Health Service has adopted the phrase as its motto.\n\nThe Italian Army uses a similar motto, (\"The safeguard of the republic shall be the supreme law\").\n\nMadrid Regional Fire Service uses a similar motto, Salus populi suprema Lex\n\n"}
{"id": "23615192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23615192", "title": "School Breakfast Program", "text": "School Breakfast Program\n\nThe School Breakfast Program provides federally subsidized breakfasts to children at schools and child care facilities in the United States. The program began as a 2 year pilot in 1966. The program was supposed to serve schools in poor neighborhoods and in areas where kids had to travel a long distance in order to make it to school. To get schools to participate Congress allowed for higher payments to schools that were defined as being in \"severe need\". In its first year, the SBP spent US$573,000 serving about 80,000 children. In 1971 Congress modified the program, making it available to schools who needed to improve the nutrition and dietary needs of children in low income families and with working parents. They also changed the way funding was reimbursed, from categorical grant reimbursement to per-meal reimbursement. The SBP was permanently authorized in 1975 for all schools who needed to provide better nutrition for their students and for higher reimbursement of the school. Federal funding is provided in the form of cash reimbursements for each breakfast served, varied in amount by the family income of the participating child. \n\nAll children in participating schools and residential institutions are eligible for a federally subsidized meal, regardless of family income. However, free meals must be offered to children from families with incomes below 130% of the federal poverty level, and reduced price meals to those with family incomes between 130% and 185% of the poverty level. Those families over the 185% poverty level have to pay full price for their meals which are set by the school. Even though the children have to pay for their own meals, the school is still reimbursed. The most current reimbursement rates for participating schools are $1.55 for each free breakfast, $1.25 for each reduced-price breakfast, and $0.27 for each paid breakfast. A school may receive a higher reimbursement rate for serving free or reduced-price meals to more than 40% of their students in the previous year. The higher rates can be as much as $0.30 more than standard rates. Schools in Hawaii and Alaska receive higher reimbursement rates than the schools in the contiguous United States. The percentage of meals being served at these higher rates is about 77%. These reimbursements are active from July 1, 2010 through June 30, 2013. The program is administered by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Food and Nutrition Service and funded by annual agricultural appropriations. \n\nThe USDA has to formulate their meal patterns and nutrition according to the Dietary Guidelines of Americans as directed by The Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act of 2010. There are plans in place for the SBP to gradually start changing their meals in 2013. Some of the changes include more whole grains, appropriate calorie counts according to grade, and lower sodium content. The sodium content must be reduced enough to meet standards, at the latest, by the 2022-2023 school year. \n\nAs of 2010, the School Breakfast Program was the second largest of the targeted food aid programs administrated by the Food and Nutrition Service, feeding 16 million children. This compares with the School Lunch program, which helped feed 32 million children a day in 2010. \n\nResearchers have extensively studied the relationship between breakfast consumption and academic performance. It has been noted that breakfast consumption has a positive impact on student’s academic achievement. There is evidence that school breakfast programs have positive effects on a student’s ability to learn and function in school. Past discoveries have been made that students who participate in school breakfast programs have higher standardized test scores and lower levels of absenteeism. More recent research has found a positive correlation between school breakfast program participation and academic grades, specifically in the subject of mathematics, along with a decrease in absences and lateness. This was demonstrated by a research study on sixth-grade students in a Midwest urban school district who ate breakfast and had significantly higher math scores than their peers who had low nutrient intakes. According to recent research studies at Tufts University and the Bogalusa (LA) Heart Study, children and adults who eat a healthy breakfast are more likely to improve their memory, concentration, energy, endurance and mood as well as attend school more often. Breakfast consumption is also associated with cognitive abilities such as creativity, reasoning, vocabulary, and problem solving. \n\nEngagement in a breakfast program has also shown to have a positive influence on psychosocial behavior. In a study on high school students, male participants reported feeling more positive after eating a nutritious breakfast. Within the same study, both male and female student participants reported feeling more alert after breakfast consumption. All in all, healthy eating is essential for the growth and development of children and youth and schools have long been recognized as a setting for public health intervention. School breakfast programs have benefits for students’ academic, behavioral and social development.\n\nThe Trump Administration has eased certain policies to make American school lunches healthier. Some health advocates perceive the move as a significant change on lunch policies of former President Barack Obama. There are fewer whole grains, more sugary chocolate milk, and an additional 300 milligrams of salt. According to Department of Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue, healthy meals given to school children since 2012 resulted in choosy kids who refused meals offered in their respective schools. This resulted to more food being thrown away and wasted. Recent research disputed the claim of Perdue citing the findings that youngsters consume more veggies and a smaller amount of saturated fat at school. \n\nOffice of Budget Management Director Mick Mulvaney argued that proposed budget cuts for after-school programs came out because there is no clear proof the practice of feeding and educating children to perform better does not actually work. Experts believe the proposal of Trump’s administration will set back the next stage of salt reduction by at least three years and eliminate further reductions that will happen following that development. Reductions of salt in school meals are based on recommendations from nutrition specialists of the World Health Organization, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, American Heart Organization, and Dietary Guidelines for Americans.\n\n"}
{"id": "26734507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26734507", "title": "Singapore Certificate of Identity", "text": "Singapore Certificate of Identity\n\nThe Singaporean Certificate of Identity is an international travel document issued by the Immigration and Checkpoints Authority to Singaporean permanent residents who are stateless.\n\nA holder of a Certificate of Identity can enter Germany and Hungary visa-free for a maximum of 90 days within a 180-day period. In the case of Germany, for holders of a COI to enter visa-free, their travel document must be endorsed and issued under the terms of the Convention relating to the Status of Stateless Persons of 28 September 1954. However, as Singapore is not a signatory to the 1954 Stateless Persons Convention, in practice the visa exemption to Germany does not apply to any holder of the COI. However, COI holders can nonetheless qualify for a visa exemption to Hungary since the Hungarian government does not require their travel document to be issued under the terms of the 1954 Stateless Persons Convention.\n\n"}
{"id": "1142325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1142325", "title": "Standards and Privileges Committee", "text": "Standards and Privileges Committee\n\nThe Standards and Privileges Committee of the United Kingdom House of Commons was established in 1995 to replace the earlier Committee of Privileges. Ten Members of Parliament sit to make recommendations to the House on complaints of breach of Parliamentary privilege. It was itself replaced on 7 January 2013, when it was split into the Committee on Standards and the Committee of Privileges.\n\nThe Committee was appointed by the House of Commons to oversee the work of the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards. It examined the arrangements for the compilation, maintenance and accessibility of the Register of Members' Interests and considered specific complaints made in relation to the registering or declaring of interests and any matter relating to the conduct of Members, including specific complaints in relation to alleged breaches in the Code of Conduct which were drawn to the Committee's attention by the Commissioner.\n\nAs of 12 December 2012, the members of the committee were as follows:\n\nSource: Standards and Privileges Committee\n\nOccasionally, the House of Commons ordered changes to be made in terms of membership of select committees, as proposed by the Committee of Selection. Such changes are shown below.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29380677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29380677", "title": "System of Environmental and Economic Accounting for Water", "text": "System of Environmental and Economic Accounting for Water\n\nWater accounting is a discipline that seeks to provide comprehensive, consistent and comparable policy relevant information related to water. Based on the experience of more than fifty years of national accounts, the discipline that provides the elements to calculate the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), the United Nations Statistics Division (UNSD) developed the System of Environmental and Economic Accounting for Water (SEEA-Water), which has been adopted by the United Nations Statistical Commission (UNSC) as a statistical interim standard in 2007.\n\nThe SEEA-Water is a conceptual framework for the organization of physical and economic information related to water using concepts, definitions and classifications consistent to those of the System of National Accounts 2008 (2008 SNA). The SEEA-Water framework is an elaboration of the handbook on Integrated Environmental and Economic Accounting 2003 (SEEA 2003) which describes the interaction between the economy and the environment and covers the whole spectrum of natural resources and the environment.\n\nTo support the implementation of SEEA-Water the United Nations Statistics Division (UNSD) developed the International Recommendations on Water Statistics (IRWS), which has also been adopted by the UN Member States through the Statistical Commission. The IRWS consolidates the experiences and practices of countries and international organizations.\n\nIn Australia, the Water Accounting Standards Board has released standards for producing general purpose water accounting reports. These standards are designed to complement the SEEA-Water, but to support the preparation of reports for a wider audience than statisticians and economists. The development of these type of standards is continuing. \n\nToday more than fifty countries around the world are implementing of planning to implement water accounts.\n\nWater problems around the world are increasing; however, information useful for decision makers within the water sector and related to the water sector seems to be decreasing. Solving water problems requires information from many disciplines. The information has to be coherent and harmonized in order to provide an integrated picture useful for the assessment of the problems.\n\nThe SEEA-Water was designed specially to provide this much needed framework. This framework is fully compatible with the framework used in the analysis of macro-economic variables throughout the world, which is the System of National Accounts (SNA), which allows to combine hydrologic and water use information with economic information.\n\nThe SEEA-Water has been adopted as an interim international standard. It will become a standard once it is reviewed in the light of the new version of the System of Environmental and Economic Accounting (SEEA), which will be submitted for adoption in 2012.\n\nThe SEEA-Water covers all of the stocks and flows associated with water, which are organized in two main systems, the Inland Water Resources System and the Water Use System or Economy. \n\nThe Inland Water Resources System includes all the elements of the natural hydrologic cycle: precipitation, evapotranspiration, surface water, groundwater, etc. The Economy covers all the industries that use water, including agriculture, electricity production, all the different types of services, etc., as specified in the International Standard Industrial Classification of All Economic Activities (ISIC), and households. \n\nAll these elements are designated with a harmonized terminology and set up in standard tables. This allows for the construction of comprehensive, consistent, and comparable indicators relevant for water policy making throughout the world. The International Recommendations for Water Statistics (IRWS) provide further elements regarding terminology, definitions and data sources.\n\nThe integration of the water accounts in countries requires the combined efforts of different agencies and experts from different disciplines, which often requires special institutional arrangements.\n\n"}
{"id": "23609869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23609869", "title": "Tariff-rate quota", "text": "Tariff-rate quota\n\nA tariff-rate quota (TRQ) is a two-tiered international trade tariff that combines two policy instruments used historically to protect domestic production by restricting imports−Import quotas and tariffs. The quotas set a quantitative threshold for a designated time period for imports of a protected domestic product. Under that threshold, tariffs applied to imports are either very low or nonexistent. Over that threshold, imports are subject to a significantly higher tariff that is intentionally prohibitive. TRQs have been required by the World Trade Organization (WTO) since the 1995 Uruguay Round Agreement 123 contract party nations engaged in international trade.\n\nIn a TRQ, the quota component works together with a specified tariff level to provide the desired degree of import protection. Essentially, a TRQ is a two-tiered tariff. The first Q imports entering within the quota portion of a TRQ are usually subject to a lower tariff rate called the Inside tariff quota rate or ITQR. Imports above the quota's quantitative threshold (Q) face a much higher (usually prohibitive) Outside tariff quota rate or OTQR. The Q units are called the quota volume, and this volume serves as the cut off between the ITQR and the OTQR.\n\nPrior to the 1995 Uruguay Round Agreement signed by 123 countries, countries used import controls the 1983 World Trade Organization's Agreement on Agriculture (AoA), to the system of tariff-rate quotas (TRQs) required by WTO which came into effect in 1995. Under WTO authorized TRQs, rates of duty or tariffs up to a predetermined limit, are lower. Once the limit is reached, imported products can be subject a significantly higher tariff. ]]By 2018, about 41 countries, including Canada and the U.S., had WTO approved tariff-rate quotas.\n\nAccording to the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA)'s Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS), the dairy products tariff-rate quota (TRQ) system is administered through import licensing through lower and higher tier tariff-rates. Importers of dairy products that are identified as eligible for the low-tier tariff rate must apply annually to the FAS for a license.\n\nFor example, in 2013, South Africa applied the following TRQ on imports of \"Frozen cuts and edible offal of fowls of the species \"Gallus domesticus\"\", a type of chicken (HS code 02071420) originating from the United States of America:\n\nIn 2013, the cut-off for this quota rate was 29,033 tonnes of imported offal / year.\n\nThere are several different ways in which quotas can be administered by governments:\n\nAs part of the 1995 Uruguay Round Agreement on Agriculture, the World Trade Organization prohibited agricultural trade quotas among its member nations. TRQs, however, were permitted as a form of transition to simple tariffs.\n\n, TRQs apply to U.S. imports of certain dairy products, beef, cotton, green olives, peanuts, peanut butter, sugar, certain sugar-containing products, and tobacco. A TRQ was applied to US steel imports in 2002.\n\nFor Brexit, the paragraph 13 of the EU's negotiating guidelines consider that the UK and the EU have to agree to manage the TRQ.\n\nThe World Trade Organization (WTO)'s Dispute Settlement System agreed in September 2017 to create a panel to rule on the United States' complaint against China's TRQs on agricultural products.\n\n"}
{"id": "28019502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28019502", "title": "Welfare's effect on poverty", "text": "Welfare's effect on poverty\n\nThe effect of social welfare on poverty is controversial in the United States. Since the goal of welfare programs is to reduce poverty, it has been debated whether or not welfare programs achieve this goal. Welfare programs enjoy more popularity in virtually every other developed country. Proponents argue welfare has reduced poverty in developed countries while opponents argue welfare creates a negative incentive to not find work and thus sustains or even creates poverty.\n\nStudies have shown that in welfare states poverty decreases after countries adopt welfare programs. Empirical evidence suggests that taxes and transfers considerably reduce poverty in most countries whose welfare states commonly constitute at least a fifth of GDP. In 2013, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development asserted that welfare spending is vital in reducing the ever expanding global wealth gap.\n\nTimothy Smeeding used data from the Luxembourg Income Study to determine the effectiveness of anti-poverty and welfare programs on poverty reduction. The data for all the countries was from the year 2000 with the exception of the United Kingdom and the Netherlands for which the data was from 1999.\nTwo studies compare countries internationally before and after implementing social welfare programs. Using data from the Luxembourg Income Study, Bradley et al. and Lane Kenworthy measure the poverty rates both in relative terms (poverty defined by the respective governments) and absolute terms (poverty defined by 40% of United States median income), respectively. Kenworthy's study also adjusts for economic performance and shows that the economy made no significant difference in uplifting people out of poverty.\n\nThe studies look at the different countries from 1960 to 1991 (Kenworthy) and from 1970 to 1997 (Bradley et al.). Both these periods are roughly when major welfare programs were implemented such as the War on Poverty in the United States. The results of both studies show that poverty has been significantly reduced during the periods when major welfare programs were created.\n\nA study done by Columbia University found that since the beginning of the War on Poverty the American poverty rate was reduced \"from 26 percent in 1967 to 16 percent in 2012\". However, Kevin Drum has criticized the study for combining elderly (in which most of the reduction happened) with non-elderly poverty reduction which was much less significant.\n\nIn the United States, members of both the Republican and Democratic Party as well as third parties such as the Libertarians have favored reducing or eliminating welfare. The landmark piece of legislation which reduced welfare was the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Act under the Clinton administration.\n\nConservative and libertarian groups such as The Heritage Foundation and the Cato Institute assert that welfare creates dependence and a disincentive to work and reduce the opportunity of individuals to manage their own lives. This dependence is called a \"culture of poverty\", which is said to undermine people from finding meaningful work. Many of these groups also point to the large budget used to maintain these programs and assert that it is wasteful.\n\nIn the book \"Losing Ground\", Charles Murray argues that welfare not only increases poverty, but also increases other problems such as single-parent households, and crime.\n\nSome socialists and Marxists argue that welfare states and modern social democratic policies limit the incentive system of the market by providing things such as minimum wages, unemployment insurance, taxing profits and reducing the reserve army of labor, resulting in capitalists having little incentive to invest. In essence, social welfare policies cripple the capitalist system and increase poverty. By implementing public or cooperative ownership of the means of production, some socialists believe there will be no need for a welfare state.\n\nIn 2013, a NBC News/\"Wall Street Journal\" poll found that a plurality of Americans (24 percent) said \"too much government welfare that prevents initiative\" was the leading cause of poverty.\n\nA January 2014 Pew Research poll found that 49% of Americans believe government aid to the poor does more good than harm as people can not escape poverty until basic needs are met and 54% believe taxes should be increased on the wealthy and corporations to expand anti-poverty programs.\n\n\nUnited States specific:\n"}
{"id": "2161569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2161569", "title": "Wouter Basson", "text": "Wouter Basson\n\nWouter Basson (born 6 July 1950) is a South African cardiologist and former head of the country's secret chemical and biological warfare project, Project Coast, during the apartheid era. Nicknamed \"Dr. Death\" by the press for his alleged actions in apartheid South Africa, Basson was acquitted in 2002 of 67 charges, after having been suspended from his military post with full pay in 1999.\n\nAmong other charges, Basson was alleged to have supplied a \"lethal triple cocktail of powerful muscle relaxants which were used during Operation Duel (the systematic elimination of SWAPO prisoners of war and South African Defence Force (SADF) members who posed a threat to South African covert operations). The United Nations report identifies the triple cocktail as ketamine, succinylcholine, and tubocurarine.\n\nMuch of what Basson was working on is still secret. It is known that in 1981, when he was working as a personal physician to state president P. W. Botha, the country's Surgeon-General hired Basson to work for and form 7 Medical Battalion Group, a specialist unit of the South African Military Health Service. His job was to collect information about other countries' chemical and biological warfare capabilities under the name Project Coast. After his preliminary report, Basson became the head project officer and began to work on the country's chemical and biological weapons capability. He recruited about 200 researchers from around the world and received annual funds equivalent to $10 million. In 1982, Basson is alleged to have arranged the killing of 200 SWAPO prisoners in \"Operation Duel\".\n\nProject Coast secretly researched chemical and biological warfare in violation of the international BTWC agreement. Basson created four front companies; Delta G Scientific Company; Roodeplaat Research Laboratories (RRL), Protechnik and Infadel, which in 1989 was split into two companies – D. John Truter Financial Consultants and Sefmed Information Services. The companies were used to officially distance the military from the project, to procure necessary chemicals and channel funds for the research. According to later investigation, Basson had a free rein to do what he wanted. Delta G did most of the research, production and development of the chemical agents, while RRL developed chemical and biological pathogens and allegedly was involved with genetic engineering. Protechnik was a large nuclear, biological and chemical warfare plant developing defences against chemical weapons. Infadel dealt with those on a smaller scale and concentrated on financing and administration of other units and possibly channelling funds between military and research facilities. Many of the employees were not aware of what they were involved with.\n\nIn the 1980s Basson and the project were allegedly involved with attacks and assassinations against members of anti-apartheid movements. Leaders in South Africa, Angola and Namibia also claimed that the more dangerous chemicals were used for crowd control in the country, although the government claimed otherwise and claimed that chemical weapons were used against South African troops. Basson provided the Civil Cooperation Bureau (CCB) with lethal chemicals to be used against prominent anti-apartheid activists. Basson continued to travel all over the world to gather information about chemical and biological warfare programs and set up other shell and paper companies as additional front companies, possibly for money laundering.\n\nWhen F. W. de Klerk became president in 1990, he ordered that production of the chemicals be stopped and the lethal agents destroyed. Basson concentrated on non-lethal chemical agents and chemicals the government had not banned. That included a large amount of ecstasy and Mandrax that were apparently exported or allegedly sold to drug dealers in communities active in the anti-apartheid movement (cf. Basson brownies). Most of the stockpile disappeared afterwards. Scientists working on the project later stated that they believed it was to be used to create drug-laced tear gas. In January 1992, FRELIMO troops conducted an operation near the South African border. During the course of the operation, they were allegedly exposed to what was thought to have been a chemical agent. Some of the soldiers died during the incident and others required hospitalisation. Investigation by the United Nations, United States and the United Kingdom identified it as BZ nerve agent. US and Britain began to pressure the South African government and in January 1993 Project Coast was wound down. Basson was officially retired and hired to dismantle the project, and allegedly profited when some of the South African front companies were privatised. Later government investigation found that there were large amounts of chemicals and agents missing.\n\nIn 1993 the Office of Serious Economic Offences (OSEO) began to investigate Basson's business dealings in an unheard of seven year forensic audit. In 1995 the South African government hired Basson to work for Transnet, a transportation and infrastructure company and possibly for other more secretive jobs. The US and UK governments suspected that during his visits to Libya between 1993-1995, Basson might have sold chemical and biological weapons secrets. In 1995, the government of Nelson Mandela rehired Basson as an army surgeon, allegedly due to US and UK pressure and possibly because the government wanted to keep an eye on him.\n\nIn 1996, South Africa’s Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC) began to investigate the SADF and determined that the army had probably used lethal toxins against ANC activists. Basson was connected to many of these attacks. In 1997, the CIA told the South African government that Basson intended to leave the country. When Basson was arrested in a sting operation in Pretoria in 1997, he had 1000 ecstasy tablets with him. At the time, he had hundreds of secret Project Coast documents in his car. TRC began to investigate Project Coast which led them to suspect that Basson had sold his secrets to governments of countries like Libya and Iraq. In 1997 they asked the help of the Netherlands Institute for Southern Africa (NIZA) whose investigation report was included in the Truth Commission Files.\n\nAt the same time, the Office for Serious Economic Offences, the National Intelligence Agency (NIA) and the Gauteng Attorney-General's Special Investigation Team investigated Basson's affairs. Conflict of interest slowed down the Commission investigation but the TRC gained more information from OSEO. Basson appeared before the TRC on 31 July 1998 and gave evidence for 12 hours. While his lawyers constantly interrupted the questioning with legal technicalities, the Commission determined that Basson had been the primary decision maker in Project Coast and should be put on trial.\n\nBasson’s trial began on 4 October 1999 in Pretoria. At the time, the South African media had dubbed him \"Dr Death\". Basson faced 67 charges, including drug possession, drug trafficking, fraud and embezzlement of a total of R36,000,000, 229 murders and conspiracy to murder and theft. Basson refused to seek amnesty from the Truth Commission. The prosecution presented 153 witnesses, but the case soon began to turn against them. On 11 October 1999 Judge Willie Hartzenberg dismissed six important charges, including four charges of murder and possible involvement in 200 deaths in Namibia, because he stated that the South African court could not prosecute crimes committed in other countries. Basson was also included in the Namibian amnesty of 1989. Hartzenberg then adjourned the trial for two weeks. After 18 months of trial, he reduced the number of charges to 46.\n\nBasson called only one witness – himself. In July 2001 Basson began to present his own evidence, speaking for 40 days. He stated that he had learned about weapons of mass destruction from Saddam Hussein, that he had indeed had free rein in the project and that he had exchanged information with foreign governments. Technically, all that was legal. The defence argued that Basson should have immunity for anything that had happened in Namibia. On 22 April 2002 Judge Hartzenberg dismissed all the remaining charges against Basson and granted him amnesty. In his judgement, the judge called the state's case \"fragmented and confusing\", and that it was largely superficial, hoping to convince the court of Basson's guilt in a manner which fell far short of the standard \"beyond reasonable doubt\". Judge Hartzenberg further added that the state seemed to have decided what the truth was and had urged the court not to believe anything that contradicted the state's version of the truth. The trial had lasted 30 months. The state tried to appeal the judgement due to legal inaccuracies, but the Supreme Court of Appeal refused to order a retrial in 2003, a step reserved for appeals that had no chance of success.\n\nAfter his release, Basson continued to travel all over the world as a guest speaker, and has founded his own private medical practice. In June 2005, a group of Swiss investigators questioned him about illegal trade in weapons and nuclear material and asked the South African government to stop cooperating with him.\n\nLater that year the Constitutional Court, South Africa's highest court, overturned the judgement of the Supreme Court of Appeal. It ruled that crimes allegedly committed outside the country could be prosecuted in South Africa. Since then the National Prosecuting Authority has not instituted proceedings against Basson for crimes against humanity.\n\nIn 2006, the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) started its own process of investigating Basson’s conduct. A charge sheet was drawn up and the inquiry began in November 2007. Out of the seven charges levelled against Basson, four full indictments remain after the HPCSA discharged two charges and part of a third charge against him.\n\nOn 10 May 2010 the application by Wouter Basson to the South African High Court was rejected. The application to the High Court attempted to have the charges set aside as unlawful, unreasonable and unfair. The judge found that there was no evidence to suggest that the Council was in any way biased or prejudiced against the doctor.\n\nOn 18 December 2013, the HPCSA found Basson guilty of unprofessional conduct on four charges. On 4 June 2014 sentencing procedure was postponed due to unavailability of counsel.\n\n"}
{"id": "47641182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47641182", "title": "Zero Project", "text": "Zero Project\n\nThe Zero Project is an initiative of the Austrian Essl Foundation and organized jointly with the World Future Council. and the European Foundation Centre, focusing on the rights of people with disabilities globally. It provides a platform to share the most innovative and effective solutions to problems that persons with disabilities face\n\nWith the website, reports and conferences, the Zero Project disseminates and promotes its research. \n\nThe Zero Project has been awarded with the Global Alliance on Accessible Technologies and Environments Award of Recognition in 2015\n\n"}
