{"id": "3845926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3845926", "title": "1975 Algiers Agreement", "text": "1975 Algiers Agreement\n\nThe 1975 Algiers Agreement (commonly known as the Algiers Accord, sometimes as the Algiers Declaration) was an agreement between Iran and Iraq to settle their border disputes and conflicts (such as the Shatt al-Arab, known as Arvand Rud in Iran), and it served as basis for the bilateral treaties signed on 13 June and 26 December 1975. The agreement was meant to end the disputes between Iraq and Iran on their borders in Shatt al-Arab and Khuzestan, but the main reason for Iraq was to end the Kurdish rebellion. Less than six years after signing the treaty, on 17 September 1980, Iraq abolished the treaty but under international law, one nation cannot unilaterally reject a previously ratified treaty, and the treaty had no clause providing for abrogation by one nation only.\n\nFriction remains along the border despite the currently binding treaty and its detailed boundary delimitation remaining in force since it was signed in 1975 and ratified in 1976 by both nations.\n\nIn 1963, after the Ramadan Revolution, the Ba'ath Party led government being headed by Ahmad Hassan al-Bakr, launched a campaign against the Kurdish rebellion, that was looking for independence from Iraq. The Ba'ath led government fell after the November 1963 coup led by Abdul Salam Arif. The relations between the government and Kurds didn't reach any final decisions. In 1968, the Ba'ath Party started another revolution, the 17 July Revolution. The relations between the Iraqis and Kurds became tense, with the Iraqi Armed Forces suppressing the Kurdish movement. The Kurdish rebels caused massive economical damage to the Iraqi government. On 11 March 1970, a treaty was signed between the Vice-Chairman of the Revolutionary Command Council (Iraq), Saddam Hussein, called the \"March Manifesto\" and the leader of the Kurdish rebellion, Mustafa al-Barzani, in Tikrit, to end the conflict. The treaty states that the Kurdish militias get merged with the Iraqi Army, cut the ties between Iran and the Kurds and put an end to the rebellion. In return, the Iraqi government promised the Kurds autonomy, with Kurdish persons included in the Iraqi government. The government encouraged the \"Arabization\" of the oil-rich Kurdish regions. In 1974, there were lots of problems between the government and the Kurds about the oil of Iraq. The Kurdish ministers left the government, the Kurdish employees left their jobs and Kurdish police and soldiers left the army. The Iraqi government demanded the Kurds to implement the treaty, but they refused. On 11 March 1974, the manifesto became a law in the Iraqi constitution. After that, the fight between the Iraqi army and Kurdish forces continued, with Iran supporting the Kurds.\n\nAfter the Ba'ath Party rose to power, in 1968, the Iraqi government demanded full control over Shatt al-Arab. On 19 April 1969, Iran abolished the 1937 agreement, which was signed between Iraq and Iran to sort the border problems, with a weak excuse, that Iraq provoked Iranian boats sailing in Shatt al-Arab. In April 1969, both armies were deployed on the banks of the Persian Gulf. After Iran took control of four islands in the Persian Gulf, Baghdad had lots of diplomatic problems with Tehran. Iraq called the Arabs of Khuzestan to start an uprising against the Shah of Iran Mohammed Reza Pahlavi. Iraq also kicked all the Iranians out of Iraq. Iran supported the Kurds in the Iraqi–Kurdish War with military equipment and funded them with money. Mustafa al-Barzani met with representatives from the American government to support the Kurds secretly, so, the Iraqi position wasn't good, especially after the outbreak of the Yom Kippur War. Iraq wanted to build a new diplomatic structure with Iran, fearing that Iran will attack them from the east, while most of the Iraqi Armed Forces are fighting on the Syrian Front.\n\nIn 1973, Iraq started negotiating with Iran, hoping that it would stop its support to the Kurdish rebels. In late April, a meeting was held in Geneva between the countries' foreign ministers. Iraqi representatives insisted on reactivating the 1937 treaty, which gives most of Shatt al-Arab to Iraq, but Iranian representatives refused. After the discussions failed, meetings were held between the two countries. Mohammed Reza Pahlavi decided to show no flexibility, and was determined to take control over exactly half of Shatt al-Arab. After the Shatt al-Arab discussions were made, Iraq started discussing ending the Iranian support to the Kurds.\n\nIn May 1974, Iraq and Iran started a committee to mark the Shatt al-Arab boundary between them. In the 1974 Arab League summit, representatives from Iran's government attended to talk with Iraqi representatives with the mediation of King of Jordan Hussein. Talks continued between the two countries sporadically, because Iraq was reluctant to give up his territorial demands. Iran started increasing its support of the Kurds, which led the Iraqi Army to fold. Saddam Hussein and Mohammed Reza Pahlavi attended the OPEC summit on 6 March 1975 in Algiers, where they agreed on an agreement and signed it with the mediation of Houari Boumédiène.\n\nThe agreement was important to Iraq in order to end the Kurdish War and to end the violence near Shatt al-Arab with Iran. It was also in Iran's interest because the Iraqi Army had taken control of many Kurdish areas, in summer 1974, and the Kurdish rebels had failed to get them back. Also Mohammed Reza Pahlavi did not want the Iranian Army to get too involved in conflict, avoiding a full-scale war with Iraq.\n\nThe Algiers Agreement determined that the border between Iraq and Iran in Shatt al-Arab will be the centerline (thalweg) of it. The border will be determined accordingly to the Treaty of Constantinople (1913) to relinquish its relations to Arab areas in Western Iran. Areas of Iraq are intended to provide some strategic depth was missing from an Iranian attack. In addition, the two countries will \"commit themselves to maintain close and effective supervision over their common boundary to end insidious nature intrusions from every possible source.\" In other words, Iran is undertaking the possibility of stopping their support to the Kurds. The both countries agreed to return to being two good neighboring countries. A violation of one part of the agreement \"contradicts the spirit of Algiers Agreement.\"\n\nOn 15 March 1975, the Iraqi and Iranian foreign ministers met with the Algerian representatives to establish a joint committee to mark the new borders. On 17 March, the protocol between the two countries was signed by the two foreign ministers. The protocol states that the two countries undertakes re-mark the border.\n\nOn 13 June 1975, another treaty was signed in Baghdad by Iraq's and Iran's foreign ministers. It involved many parts about conflicts between them and the placement of the borders and its changes. The treaty is called \"Iraq-Iran international borders and good neighborly relations\".\n\nIraq and Iran formed a joint commission to mark the boundary between the two countries. They set up headquarters in all over the border. The commission ended marking the border on 26 December 1975 with the signing of a joint declaration of intents. Iran pulled back all of its soldiers from Iraq and sealed the borders, after stopping the support of the Kurds, suddenly, without any declaration. Iran also requested the CIA and the Mossad to end the military support of the Kurdish rebels. Most of the people thought that after the end of international support, the Iraqi government would negotiate with the Kurds, but the Vice-Chairman of Revolutionary Command Council, Saddam Hussein, launched an aggressive campaign against the rebels to end them forever. Mohammed Reza Pahlavi interfered and succeeded in establishing a cease fire, but on 1 April, the government relaunched the campaign. After many battles, the Iraqi Armed Forces finally defeated the rebels and ended the rebellion. More than 100,000 Kurdish refugees fled to Iran and Turkey with their leader, Mustafa al-Barzani, only to come back with another much more violent rebellion in 1978.\n\nIn 1979, the Islamic Revolution in Iran made Khomeini the country's leader. Khomeini wanted to \"spread the revolution to the Islamic world\", including Iraq to free its people from the \"dictatorship.\" Iraq abolished the Algiers Agreement on 17 September 1980, which led to the longest war in the region in the 20th century, the Iran–Iraq War. The war lasted 8 years until the United Nations Security Council Resolution 619 ended the war and returned both parties to the Algiers Agreement of 1975.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1267277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1267277", "title": "Adam Müller", "text": "Adam Müller\n\nAdam Heinrich Müller (30 June 1779 – 17 January 1829; after 1827 Ritter von Nitterdorf) was a German publicist, literary critic, political economist, theorist of the state and forerunner of economic romanticism.\n\nMüller was born in Berlin. It was intended that he should study Protestant theology, but from 1798 he devoted himself in Göttingen to the study of law, philosophy, and natural science. He was a student of Gustav Hugo. Returning to Berlin, he was persuaded by his friend Friedrich von Gentz to take up political science. He had early formed a close intimacy with Gentz, his elder by 15 years; and this connection exercised an important influence both on his material circumstances and his mental development in after life. The two men differed widely in character and in their fundamental principles, but agreed, at least in their later period, in their practical political aims, and the friendship was only terminated by death.\n\nMüller worked for some time as referendary in the \"Kurmärkische Kammer\" in Berlin. Müller's relations with the Junker party and his co-operation with them in their opposition to Hardenberg's reforms made any public employment in Prussia impossible for him. He travelled in Sweden and Denmark, spent about two years in Poland, and then went to Vienna, where he was converted to the Catholic faith on 30 April 1805. Through Gentz he became acquainted with Metternich, to whom he was useful in the preparation of state papers.\n\nFrom 1806 to 1809, he lived at Dresden occupied in the political education of Prince Bernhard of Saxe-Weimar and lecturer on German literature, dramatic art, and political science. In 1808 he edited with Heinrich von Kleist the periodical \"Phoebus\". In 1809, he returned to Berlin, and in 1811 to Vienna, where he lived in the house of Archduke Maximilian of Austria-Este and became the friend of Clemens Maria Hofbauer.\n\nIn 1813, he entered the Austrian service, and was appointed imperial commissioner and major of the rifle corps in Tyrol. He took part in the wars for liberty, and later on, as counsellor of the government, in the reorganization of the country. In 1815 he was called to Vienna, and went to Paris with the imperial staff.\n\nOn the conclusion of peace, he became Austrian consul-general for Saxony at Leipzig, and agent for Anhalt and Schwarzburg. He edited here the periodicals \"Deutscher Staatsanzeiger\" (1816–1818) and \"Unparteiischer Literatur- und Kirchenkorrespondent\". He attended the ministerial conferences at Carlsbad and Vienna (1819–1820), where, being one of the principal literary instruments of the reaction, he took part in framing the Carlsbad resolutions. In 1826, at the instance of Prince von Metternich, he was ennobled as Ritter von Nittersdorf, was recalled to Vienna (1827), appointed imperial counsellor, and employed in the service of the chancellery. He died in Vienna in 1829, aged 49.\n\nMüller was distinguished as a writer not only on politics and economics, but on literature and aesthetics. His chief work is the ' (\"Elements of Statecraft\"), originating in lectures delivered before Prince Bernhard of Saxe-Weimar and an assembly of politicians and diplomats at Dresden in the winter, 1808-09. It treats in six books of the state, of right, of the spirit of legislation in antiquity and in the Middle Ages, of money and national wealth, of the economical factors of the state and trade, of the relation between the state and religion. Müller endeavoured to comprehend the connexion between political and social science, and, while using the historical method, to base them upon philosophy and religion. (Cf. the preface to the first volume of the \"Elemente\", where he treats exhaustively the differences between his work and Montesquieu's '; cf. also the sixth book of this work, and the above-mentioned work of 1820.) With Edmund Burke, Friedrich von Gentz, Joseph de Maistre, and Karl Ludwig von Haller, he must be reckoned among the chief opponents of revolutionary ideas in politics.\n\nIn his work, ' (\"On the necessity of a comprehensive theological foundation for political science\", 1820), Müller rejects, like Haller (', 1816), the distinction between constitutional and civil law (common law), which rests entirely on the idea of the state's omnipotence. His ideal is medieval feudalism, on which the reorganization of modern political institutions should be modelled.\n\nIn the field of literature and aesthetics, Müller belongs to the Romantic school. He is a Romanticist even in his specialty, politics and political economy. As Eichendorff says in his \"Geschichte der poetischen Literatur Deutschlands\" (new ed., by W. Kosch, Kempten, 1906, p. 352), Müller \"mapped out a domain of his own, the application of Romanticism to the social and political conditions of life.\" Carl Schmitt presented the view that \"it is impossible to judge Müller's theory of the state as anything but a matter of aesthetics and style.\" Müller himself declares: \"The reconciliation of science and art and of their noblest ideas with serious political life was the purpose of my larger works\" (\"Vermischte Schriften\", I, p. iii).\n\nHis position in political economy is defined by his strong opposition to Adam Smith's system of materialistic-liberal (so-called classical) political economy, or the so-called industry system. He censures Smith as presenting a one-sidedly material and individualistic conception of society, and as being too exclusively English in his views. Müller is thus also an adversary of free trade. In contrast with the economical individualism of Adam Smith, he emphasizes the ethical element in national economy, the duty of the state toward the individual, and the religious basis which is also necessary in this field. Müller's importance in the history of political economy is acknowledged even by the opponents of his religious and political point of view. His reaction against Adam Smith, says Roscher (\"Geschichte der National-Ökonomik\", p. 763), \"is not blind or hostile, but is important, and often truly helpful.\" Some of his ideas, freed from much of their alloy, are reproduced in the writings of the historical school of German economists.\n\nThe reactionary and feudalistic thought in Müller's writings, which agreed so little with the spirit of the times, prevented his political ideas from exerting a more notable and lasting influence on his age, while their religious character prevented them from being justly appreciated. However, Müller's teachings had long-term effects in that they were taken up again by 20th century theorists of corporatism and the corporate state, for example Othmar Spann (\"Der wahre Staat. Vorlesungen über Abbruch und Neubau der Gesellschaft\", Vienna, 1921).\n\nMüller was a man of great and versatile talents, an excellent orator, and a suggestive writer. Several of his works were based upon his own lectures; the most important (besides the above-mentioned periodicals) are:\n\n\nA critical pamphlet, which was written in 1817 on the occasion of the Protestant jubilee of the Reformation and entitled, \"Etwas, das Goethe gesagt hat. Beleuchtet von Adam Müller. Leipzig, den 31 Oktober 1817\", was printed but not published (reprinted in Vienna, 1910). Nevertheless, Traugott Krug's reply, entitled \"Etwas, das Herr Adam Müller gesagt hat über etwas, das Goethe gesagt hat, und noch etwas, das Luther gesagt hat\" (Leipzig, 1817), appeared in two editions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15370055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15370055", "title": "Addington v. Texas", "text": "Addington v. Texas\n\nAddington v. Texas, 441 U.S. 418 (1979), was a landmark United States Supreme Court case that set the standard for involuntary commitment for treatment by raising the burden of proof required to commit persons for psychiatric treatment from the usual civil burden of proof of \"preponderance of the evidence\" to \"clear and convincing evidence\".\n\nBefore Frank Addington was arrested on the misdemeanor charge of \"assault threat\" against his mother, Addington's mother filed a petition with the court, in accordance with Texas law, requesting that Addington be indefinitely involuntarily committed to a state psychiatric hospital. Addington had a long history of mental and emotional problems and past psychiatric hospitalizations. The state trial court issued jury instructions that the decision be based on \"clear, unequivocal and convincing evidence\" that Addington was mentally ill and that hospitalization was required for his own welfare and the welfare of others. The jury found that Addington was mentally ill and required hospitalization. Thereupon the trial court ordered his indefinite commitment. He was indefinitely committed to Austin State Hospital.\n\nHowever, Addington appealed to the Texas Court of Appeals, based on the argument the court should have used the \"beyond a reasonable doubt\" standard of proof. The appeals court reversed, agreeing with Addington. The Texas Supreme Court then reversed the Court of Appeals' decision, reinstating the trial court's orders. It concluded that the standard of proof of the preponderance of the evidence satisfied due process in a civil commitment proceeding.\n\nAddington then appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court on a writ of certiorari.\n\nThe appeal was dismissed and certiorari granted; the lower court's decision was vacated and remanded. The court said the issue of an individual's interest in liberty is of such weight and gravity that a higher standard of proof is required than is normal in civil cases brought under state law. Because of the uncertainties of psychiatric diagnosis, the burden of proof does not need to be as high as \"beyond a reasonable doubt\" in criminal cases, but should be a \"clear and convincing\" standard of proof as required by the Fourteenth Amendment in such a civil proceeding to commit an individual involuntarily for an indefinite period to a state psychiatric hospital.\n\nFurther, the opinion touched on the issue of an involuntary commitment as primarily medical in nature and needing the expertise of mental health experts.\nThe court raised the bar for committing someone against their will in a civil commitment proceeding. When the stakes are exceptionally high in civil matters, the burden of proof must be \"clear and convincing evidence\". The case raised important issues regarding civil commitment by placing the burden of proof on the petitioner, that is the party seeking the involuntary commitment of a person.\n\nThe opinion also suggested that it was not necessarily for the trier of facts to draw the necessary conclusions without the expertise of psychiatrists and psychologists.\n\nThe Supreme Court also cited the \"Addington\" case in \"Santosky v. Kramer\", which set a clear and convincing evidence standard in termination of parental rights cases.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "155033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=155033", "title": "Aristotle Onassis", "text": "Aristotle Onassis\n\nAristotle Socrates Onassis (; , \"Aristotelis Onasis\"; 20 January 1906 – 15 March 1975), commonly called Ari or Aristo Onassis, was a Greek shipping magnate who amassed the world's largest privately owned shipping fleet and was one of the world's richest and most famous men. He was known for his business success, his great wealth and also his personal life, including his marriage to Athina Mary Livanos (daughter of shipping tycoon Stavros G. Livanos); his affair with famous opera singer Maria Callas; and his 1968 marriage to Jacqueline Kennedy, the widow of American President John F. Kennedy.\n\nOnassis was born in Smyrna and fled the city with his family to Greece in 1922 in the wake of the Greco-Turkish War. He moved to Argentina in 1923 and established himself as a tobacco trader and later a shipping owner during the Second World War. Moving to Monaco, Onassis rivaled Prince Rainer III for economic control of the country through his ownership of SBM and in the mid 1950s sought to secure an oil shipping arrangement with Saudi Arabia and engaged in whaling expeditions. In the 1960s Onassis attempted to establish a large investment contract, Project Omega, with the Greek military junta, and sold Olympic Airways which he had founded in 1957. Onassis was greatly affected by the death of his 24-year-old son, Alexander, in a plane crash in 1973, and died two years later.\n\nOnassis was born in Karataş, a suburb of the port city of Smyrna (now İzmir, Turkey) in Anatolia to Socrates Onassis and Penelope Dologou. Onassis had one full-sister, Artemis, and two half-sisters, Kalliroi and Merope, by his father's second marriage following Penelope's death. Onassis became a successful shipping entrepreneur and was able to send his children to prestigious schools. When Onassis graduated from the local Evangelical Greek School at the age of 16, he spoke four languages: Greek (his native language), Turkish, Spanish, and English.\n\nSmyrna was briefly administered by Greece (1919–1922) in the aftermath of the Allied victory in World War I, but then Smyrna was re-taken by Turkey during the Greco-Turkish War (1919–22). The Onassis family's substantial property holdings were lost, causing them to become refugees fleeing to Greece after the Great Fire of Smyrna in 1922. During this period, Onassis lost three uncles, an aunt, and her husband Chrysostomos Konialidis and their daughter, who were burned to death in a church in Thyatira where 500 Christians were seeking shelter from the Great Fire of Smyrna.\n\nAt age 17 in 1923, Onassis arrived in Buenos Aires, Argentina, by Nansen passport, and got his first job as a telephone operator, with the British United River Plate Telephone Company, while following studies in commerce and port-duty administration at \"Aduanas Argentinas\". He later became an entrepreneur, creating an Argentine import-export company, going into business for himself and making a fortune importing English-Turkish tobacco to Argentina. He obtained Argentine citizenship in 1929. Eventually he established his first shipping trading company in Buenos Aires, Astilleros Onassis. After gaining his first fortune in Argentina, he expanded his shipping business worldwide and relocated to New York City, USA, where he built up his shipping businesses empire while keeping offices in Buenos Aires and Athens. His legacy in Buenos Aires was the creation of a shipping empire and a Hellenic Culture Fund providing youth scholarships & a students/academic international exchange program between Argentina, Greece, Monaco and the United States; the programs are funded and administered by the Onassis Foundation and eventually were under the managing direction of his daughter Christina Onassis.\n\nOnassis built up a fleet of freighters and tankers that eventually exceeded seventy vessels. The fleet operated under a flag of convenience, thereby bypassing laws and regulations of the owners’ country that would protect safety standards and the wages and working conditions of mariners. Onassis' fleet had mostly Panamanian and Liberian flags and sailed tax-free while operating at low cost. Because of this, Onassis could turn a profit in every transaction, even though he charged one of the lowest prices in the merchant navy market. Onassis made large profits when the Big Oil companies like Mobil, Socony, and Texaco signed long-term contracts at fixed prices with him for the use of his fleet, while having trouble managing their own fleets, which operated under US flags and thus at high cost. \n\nThe high profitability of the Onassis fleet has been attributed in large part to his disregard for standards that normally govern international shipping. For example, after his Liberian registered tanker SS Arrow ran aground and spilled oil into Chedabucto Bay in 1970, still the most significant oil spill off Canada’s East Coast (about 25% of the amount spilled by the Exxon Valdez in Alaska in 1989), there was a Commission of Inquiry. Led by Dr Patrick McTaggart-Cowan, executive director of the Science Council of Canada, the Commission found that the Arrow had been operating with almost none of its navigation equipment serviceable: \"radar had ceased to function an hour before the ship struck; the echo sounder had not been in working condition for two months; and the gyrocompass... had a permanent error of three degrees west. The officer on watch at the time of the accident, the ship's third officer, had no license\" and none of the crew had any navigational skill except the master, \"and there are even doubts about his ability.\"\n\nOnassis arrived in the Mediterranean principality of Monaco in 1953 and began to purchase the shares of Monaco's Société des bains de mer de Monaco (SBM) via the use of front companies in the tax haven of Panama, and took control of the organisation in the summer of that year. Onassis moved his headquarters into the Old Sporting Club on Monaco's Avenue d'Ostende shortly after taking control of the SBM. The SBM was a significant owner of property in Monaco, its assets included the Monte Carlo Casino, the Monaco Yacht Club, the Hôtel de Paris and a third of the country's acreage. Onassis' takeover of the SBM was initially welcomed by Monaco's ruler, Prince Rainier III as the country required investment, but Onassis and Rainier's relationship had deteriorated by 1962 in the wake of the boycott of Monaco by the French President, Charles de Gaulle.\n\nOnassis and Rainier had differing visions for Monaco. Onassis wished the country to remain a resort for an exclusive clientele, but Rainier wished to build hotels and attract a greater number of tourists. Monaco had become less attractive as a tax haven in the wake of France's actions, and Rainier urged Onassis to invest in the construction of hotels. Onassis was reluctant to invest in hotels without a guarantee from Rainier that no other competing hotel development would be permitted, but promised to build two hotels and an apartment block. Unwilling to give Onassis his guarantee, Rainier used his veto to cancel the entire hotel project, and publicly attacked SBM for their 'bad faith' on television, implicitly criticising Onassis. Rainier and Onassis remained at odds over the direction of the company for several years and in June 1966 Rainier approved a plan to create 600,000 new shares in SBM to be permanently held by the state, which reduced Onassis's stake from 52% to under a third. In the Supreme Court of Monaco the share creation was challenged by Onassis who claimed that it was unconstitutional, but the court found against him in March 1967. Following the ruling Onassis sold his holdings in SBM to the state of Monaco for $9.5 million ($ as of 2015), and left the country. According to Frank Brady in \"Onassis: An Extravagant Life\", Onassis' words about the issue were: \"We were gypped.\"\n\nDuring the oil boom of the 1950s Onassis was in final discussions with the King of Saudi Arabia for securing a tanker transport deal. Since the Arabian-American Oil Co. (Currently, ARAMCO) had a monopoly on Saudi oil by a concession agreement, the US government was alarmed by the tanker deal. By 1954, a specific U.S. policy for Saudi Arabia, in addition to strengthening the US \"special position,\" was to take \"all appropriate measures to bring about the cancellation\" of an agreement between the Saudi government and Onassis to transport Saudi oil on his tankers and \"in any case, to make the agreement ineffective\". [Doc. 128] The arrangement would have ended monopoly control of Saudi Arabia's oil by American oil companies, but was forestalled by the US government. \nFor this reason he became a target of the US government and in 1954, the FBI investigated Onassis for fraud against the U.S. government. He was charged with violating the citizenship provision of the shipping laws which require that all ships displaying the U.S. flag be owned by U.S. citizens. Onassis entered a guilty plea and paid $7 million.\n\nBetween 1950 and 1956, Onassis had success whaling off the Peruvian coast. His first expedition made a net profit of US$4.5 million. That business ended when \"The Norwegian Whaling Gazette\" made accusations based on sailors' testimonials, such as one given by Bruno Schalaghecke who worked on the factory ship \"Olympic Challenger\": \"Pieces of fresh meat from the 124 whales we killed yesterday still remains on the deck. Among them all, just one could be considered adult. All animals that pass within the range of the harpoon are killed in cold blood.\" The venture came to an end after the business was sold to Kyokuyo Hogei Kaisha Whaling Company, one of the biggest Japanese whaling companies, for $8.5 million. Norwegian authorities suspected the involvement of Hjalmar Schacht in Onassis' whaling enterprises. Schacht had previously been connected with Onassis' Saudi Arabian deals.\n\nIn 1956, Greek airlines in general faced economic difficulties, whereby companies like TAE were affected by strikes and cash shortage. The Greek government decided to give this and other companies to the private sector, and, on July 30, 1956, Onassis signed a contract granting him the operational rights to the Greek air transport industry. When Onassis heard during the negotiations that he would not be able to use the five Olympic rings in his logo due to copyright issues, he simply decided to add a sixth ring.\nOperation effectively started in 1957, with one DC-4, two DC-6s and 13 DC-3s. The following year saw 244,000 passengers transported. The agreement lasted until December 10, 1974, when a number of factors (namely, a series of strikes, shortage of passengers, fuel price increase, and a law from the new Greek government forbidding Olympic Airways to fire employees) led Onassis to terminate his contract.\n\nFollowing this event, Paul Ionnidis, a high-ranking director from Olympic Airways, said the following of Onassis: \"Deep down, [he] did not want to relinquish Olympic Airways. He found it flattering to own an airline. It was something in which he took deep pride. It was his accomplishment. He was married to the sea, but Olympic was his mistress. We used to say that he would spend all the money he made at sea with his mistress in the sky.\"\n\nOnassis' time at the head of Olympic Airways is known as a golden era, due to investments he made in training and the acquisition of cutting-edge technology. For example, in 1959, he signed a deal with De Havilland to buy four Comet 4B jets. Onassis was also renowned for his attention to service quality, which led him to buy gold-plated utensils and candles for the dining service of the first-class section.\n\nDuring 1974, the last year of Onassis' involvement with the company, Olympic Airways transported 2.5 million passengers and had a work force of 7,356 persons. At the time, his ownership of Olympic Airways distinguished Onassis as one of only two men in the world to own a private airline, the other being Howard Hughes of TWA.\n\nOnassis was involved in the privatization of the Greek national airline and founded the privatized Olympic Airways (today Olympic Air) in 1957.\nStocks accounted for one-third of his capital, held in oil companies in the USA, the Middle East, and Venezuela. He also owned additional shares that secured his control of 95 multinational businesses in five continents. He owned gold-processing plants in Argentina and Uruguay and a large share in an airline in Latin America and $4 million worth of investments in Brazil. Also, he owned companies like Olympic Maritime and Olympic Tourist; a chemical company in Persia; apartments in Paris, London, Monte Carlo, Athens, and Acapulco; a castle in South France; the Olympic Tower (a 52-storey high-rise in Manhattan); another building in Sutton Place; Olympic Airways and Air Navigation; the island of Skorpios; the luxury yacht \"Christina O\" and, finally, deposit accounts and accounts in treasuries in 217 banks in the whole world.\n\nIn October 1968, amidst the Greek military junta and shortly after his marriage to Jacqueline Kennedy, Onassis announced the launch of Project Omega, a $400 million investment program that aimed to build considerable industrial infrastructure in Greece including an oil refinery and aluminum smelter. Onassis had cultivated the Prime Minister of Greece, Colonel Georgios Papadopoulos, for his assistance with the scheme, loaning Papadopoulos the use of his villa and buying dresses for his wife. The project was financially supported by the American bank First National City, and Onassis' American financial supporters eventually tired of the unfavourable terms demanded by him. The project was heavily criticized by people such as Helen Vlachos, a journalist from Athens. Another Greek Colonel, Nikolaos Makarezos, preferred a deal offered by Onassis' rival, Stavros Niarchos, and the project was eventually split between them. The failure was due partly to opposition from influential people within the military junta, such as Ioannis-Orlandos Rodinos, Deputy Minister of Economic Coordination, who opposed Onassis's offers in preference to Niarchos.\n\nOnassis married Athina Mary \"Tina\" Livanos, daughter of shipping magnate Stavros G. Livanos and Arietta Zafrikakis, on 28 December 1946. Livanos was 17 at the time of their marriage; Onassis was 40. Onassis and Livanos had two children, both born in New York City: a son, Alexander (1948–1973), and a daughter Christina (1950–1988). Onassis named his legendary super-yacht after his daughter. To Onassis his marriage to Athina was more than the fulfillment of his ambitions. He also felt that the marriage dealt a blow to his father-in-law and the old-money Greek traditionalists who held Onassis in very low esteem. The couple had become largely separated by the mid-1950s, with the end of the marriage coming after Livanos found Onassis in bed with a friend of hers at their home in Cap d'Antibes, the Château de la Croë. The house was then acquired by Onassis' brother-in-law and business rival Stavros Niarchos, who bought it for his wife, Eugenia Livanos, Athina's sister. Onassis and Livanos divorced in June 1960 during Onassis' well publicised affair with Maria Callas.\n\nOnassis and opera prima donna Maria Callas carried on an affair despite the fact that they were both married. They met in 1957 during a party in Venice promoted by Elsa Maxwell. After this first encounter, Onassis commented to Spyros Skouras: \"There [was] just a natural curiosity; after all, we were the most famous Greeks alive in the world.\" Callas and Onassis both divorced their spouses but did not marry each other although their relationship continued for many years.\n\nOnassis ended his relationship with Callas to marry Jacqueline Kennedy, widow of U.S. President John F. Kennedy. They married on 20 October 1968 on Onassis' privately owned Greek island, Skorpios.\n\nAccording to biographer Peter Evans, Onassis offered Mrs. Kennedy US$3 million to replace her Kennedy trust fund, which she would lose because she was remarrying. After Onassis' death, she would receive a settlement of US$26 million; US$150,000 each year for the rest of her life. The whole marital contract was discussed with Ted Kennedy and later reviewed by André Meyer, her financial consultant.\n\nOnassis' daughter Christina made it clear that she disliked Jacqueline Kennedy, and after Alexander's death, she convinced Aristotle that Jacqueline had some kind of curse due to John and Robert Kennedy's assassinations.\n\nDuring his marriage to Jackie, the couple inhabited six residences: her 15-room Fifth Ave. apartment in New York City, her horse farm in New Jersey, his Ave. Foch apartment in Paris, his house in Athens, on Skorpios, his private island in Greece, and his yacht \"Christina O\".\n\nOnassis died at age 69 on 15 March 1975 at the American Hospital of Paris in Neuilly-sur-Seine, France, of respiratory failure, a complication of the myasthenia gravis from which he had been suffering during the last years of his life. Onassis was buried on his island of Skorpios in Greece, alongside his son, Alexander. Onassis' will established a charitable foundation in memory of his son, named the Alexander S. Onassis Public Benefit Foundation, based in the tax haven of Vaduz in Liechtenstein, and headquartered in Athens. The foundation received 45% of Onassis' estate, which would have been left to his son, with the 55% remainder left to his daughter, Christina. The foundation consists of two parts; a business foundation which runs various businesses including shipping, and a public benefit foundation which is the sole recipient of the business foundation. The public benefit foundation funds the worldwide promotion of Greek culture, funds the Onassis International Prizes for achievement in various fields, and the funding of scholarships for Greek university students.\n\nJacqueline Onassis also received her share of the estate, settling for a reported $10 million ($26 million according to other sources), which was negotiated by her brother-in-law Ted Kennedy. This amount would reportedly grow to several hundred million under the financial stewardship of her companion Maurice Tempelsman. Christina's share has since passed to her only child Athina, at the time making Athina one of the wealthiest women in the world.\n\n\nReferences\n\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "4848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4848", "title": "Barrister", "text": "Barrister\n\nA barrister (also known as barrister-at-law or bar-at-law) is a type of lawyer in common law jurisdictions. Barristers mostly specialise in courtroom advocacy and litigation. Their tasks include taking cases in superior courts and tribunals, drafting legal pleadings, researching the philosophy, hypothesis and history of law, and giving expert legal opinions. Often, barristers are also recognised as \"legal scholars\".\n\nBarristers are distinguished from solicitors, who have more direct access to clients, and may do transactional-type legal work. It is mainly barristers who are appointed as judges, and they are rarely hired by clients directly. In some legal systems, including those of Scotland, South Africa, Scandinavia, Pakistan, India, Bangladesh, and the British Crown dependencies of Jersey, Guernsey and the Isle of Man, the word barrister is also regarded as an honorific title.\n\nIn a few jurisdictions, barristers are usually forbidden from \"conducting\" litigation, and can only act on the instructions of a solicitor, who performs tasks such as corresponding with parties and the court, and drafting court documents. In England and Wales, barristers may seek authorisation from the Bar Standards Board to conduct litigation. This allows a barrister to practise in a 'dual capacity', fulfilling the role of both barrister and solicitor.\n\nIn some countries with common law legal systems, such as New Zealand and some regions of Australia, lawyers are entitled to practise both as barristers and solicitors, but it remains a separate system of qualification to practise exclusively as a barrister.\n\nA barrister, who can be considered as a jurist, is a lawyer who represents a litigant as advocate before a court of appropriate jurisdiction. A barrister speaks in court and presents the case before a judge or jury. In some jurisdictions, a barrister receives additional training in evidence law, ethics, and court practice and procedure. In contrast, a solicitor generally meets with clients, does preparatory and administrative work and provides legal advice. In this role, he or she may draft and review legal documents, interact with the client as necessary, prepare evidence, and generally manage the day-to-day administration of a lawsuit. A solicitor can provide a crucial support role to a barrister when in court, such as managing large volumes of documents in the case or even negotiating a settlement outside the courtroom while the trial continues inside.\n\nThere are other essential differences. A barrister will usually have rights of audience in the higher courts, whereas other legal professionals will often have more limited access, or will need to acquire additional qualifications to have such access. As in common law countries in which there is a split between the roles of barrister and solicitor, the barrister in civil law jurisdictions is responsible for appearing in trials or pleading cases before the courts.\n\nBarristers usually have particular knowledge of case law, precedent, and the skills to \"build\" a case. When a solicitor in general practice is confronted with an unusual point of law, they may seek the \"opinion of counsel\" on the issue.\n\nIn most countries, barristers operate as sole practitioners, and are prohibited from forming partnerships or from working as a barrister as part of a corporation. (In 2009, the Clementi Report recommended the abolition of this restriction in England and Wales.) However, barristers normally band together into \"chambers\" to share clerks (administrators) and operating expenses. Some chambers grow to be large and sophisticated, and have a distinctly corporate feel. In some jurisdictions, they may be employed by firms of solicitors, banks, or corporations as in-house legal advisers.\n\nIn contrast, solicitors and attorneys work directly with the clients and are responsible for engaging a barrister with the appropriate expertise for the case. Barristers generally have little or no direct contact with their 'lay clients', particularly without the presence or involvement of the solicitor. All correspondence, inquiries, invoices, and so on, will be addressed to the solicitor, who is primarily responsible for the barrister's fees.\n\nIn court, barristers are often visibly distinguished from solicitors by their apparel. For example, in Ireland, England, and Wales, a barrister usually wears a horsehair wig, stiff collar, bands, and a gown. Since January 2008, solicitor advocates have also been entitled to wear wigs, but wear different gowns.\n\nIn many countries the traditional divisions between barristers and solicitors are breaking down. Barristers once enjoyed a monopoly on appearances before the higher courts, but in Great Britain this has now been abolished, and solicitor advocates can generally appear for clients at trial. Increasingly, firms of solicitors are keeping even the most advanced advisory and litigation work in-house for economic and client relationship reasons. Similarly, the prohibition on barristers taking instructions directly from the public has also been widely abolished. But, in practice, direct instruction is still a rarity in most jurisdictions, partly because barristers with narrow specializations, or who are only really trained for advocacy, are not prepared to provide general advice to members of the public.\n\nHistorically, barristers have had a major role in trial preparation, including drafting pleadings and reviewing evidence. In some areas of law, that is still the case. In other areas, it is relatively common for the barrister to receive the brief from the instructing solicitor to represent a client at trial only a day or two before the proceeding. Part of the reason for this is cost. A barrister is entitled to a 'brief fee' when a brief is delivered, and this represents the bulk of her/his fee in relation to any trial. They are then usually entitled to a 'refresher' for each day of the trial after the first. But if a case is settled before the trial, the barrister is not needed and the brief fee would be wasted. Some solicitors avoid this by delaying delivery of the brief until it is certain the case will go to trial.\n\nSome benefits of maintaining the split include:\n\nSome disadvantages of the split include:\n\nA detailed examination of the justifications for a split legal profession and of the arguments in favour of a fused profession can be found in English solicitor Peter Reeve’s 1986 book, \"Are Two Legal Professions Necessary?\"\n\nBarristers are regulated by the Bar for the jurisdiction where they practise, and in some countries, by the Inn of Court to which they belong. In some countries, there is external regulation.\n\nInns of Court, where they exist, regulate admission to the profession. Inns of Court are independent societies that are titularly responsible for the training, admission (calling), and discipline of barristers. Where they exist, a person may only be called to the Bar by an Inn, of which they must first be a member. In fact, historically, call to and success at the Bar, to a large degree, depended upon social connections made early in life.\n\nA Bar collectively describes all members of the profession of barrister within a given jurisdiction. While as a minimum the Bar is an association embracing all its members, it is usually the case, either \"de facto\" or \"de jure\", that the Bar is invested with regulatory powers over the manner in which barristers practise.\n\nIn the common law tradition, the respective roles of a lawyer – that is as legal adviser and advocate – were formally split into two separate, regulated sub-professions, the other being the office of solicitor. Historically, the distinction was absolute, but in the modern legal age, some countries that had a split legal profession now have a fused profession – anyone entitled to practise as a barrister may also practise as a solicitor, and vice versa. In practice, the distinction may be non-existent, minor, or marked, depending on the jurisdiction. In some jurisdictions, such Australia, Scotland and Ireland, there is little overlap.\n\nIn the Australian states of New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland, there is a split profession. Nevertheless, subject to conditions, barristers can accept direct access work from clients. Each state Bar Association regulates the profession and essentially has the functions of the English Inns of Court. In the states of South Australia and Western Australia, as well as the Australian Capital Territory, the professions of barrister and solicitor are fused, but an independent bar nonetheless exists, regulated by the Legal Practice Board of the state or territory. In Tasmania and the Northern Territory, the profession is fused, although a very small number of practitioners operate as an independent bar.\n\nGenerally counsel dress in the traditional English manner (wig, gown, and jabot) before superior courts, although this is not usually done for interlocutory applications. Wigs and robes are still worn in the Supreme Court and the District Court in civil matters and is dependent on the judicial officer's attire. Robes and wigs are worn in all criminal cases. In Western Australia, wigs are no longer worn in any court.\n\nEach year, the Bar Association appoints certain barristers of seniority and eminence to the rank of \"Senior Counsel\" (in most States and Territories) or \"Queen's Counsel\" (in the Northern Territory, Queensland, and Victoria). Such barristers carry the title \"SC\" or \"QC\" after their name. The appointments are made after a process of consultation with members of the profession and the judiciary. Senior Counsel appear in particularly complex or difficult cases. They make up about 14 per cent of the bar in New South Wales.\n\nIn Bangladesh, the law relating to the Barristers is the Bangladesh Legal Practitioners and Bar Council Order,1972 (President Order No.46) as amended which is administered and enforced by the Bangladesh Bar Council. Bangladesh Bar Council is the supreme statutory body to regulate the legal professions in Bangladesh and ensure educational standard and regulatory compliance by the Advocates on roll of the Bar Council. The Bar Council, with the help of government, prescribes rules to regulate the profession. All law graduates educating from home or abroad have to write and pass the Bar Council Examination to be enrolled and admitted as professional Advocates to practice law both as Barristers & Solicitors. The newly enrolled advocates are permitted to start practice in the lower (District) courts after admitting as members of the local (District) Bar Associations. After two years of Practice in lower court the Advocates are eligible to be enrolled in the High Court Division of the Supreme Court of Bangladesh. By passing the Bar Council Examination, the advocates are issued with certificates of enrollment and permission in prescribed form to practise in the High Court Division of the Supreme Court also. Only those advocates who became Barristers in U.K. maintain their honorific title of barristers. In Bangladesh there is an association called Barristers' Association of Bangladesh that represents the such U.K. bases barristers.[10]\n\nIn Canada (except Quebec), the professions of barrister and solicitor are fused, and many lawyers refer to themselves with both names, even if they do not practise in both areas. In colloquial parlance within the Canadian legal profession, lawyers often term themselves as \"litigators\" (or \"barristers\"), or as \"solicitors\", depending on the nature of their law practice though some may in effect practise as both litigators and solicitors. However, \"litigators\" would generally perform all litigation functions traditionally performed by barristers and solicitors; in contrast, those terming themselves \"solicitors\" would generally limit themselves to legal work not involving practice before the courts (not even in a preparatory manner as performed by solicitors in England), though some might practise before chambers judges. As is the practice in many other Commonwealth jurisdictions such as Australia, Canadian litigators are \"gowned\", but without a wig, when appearing before courts of \"superior jurisdiction\". All law graduates from Canadian Law schools, and NCA certificates of Qualification (Internationally trained lawyers) from the Federation of Law Society of Canada after having completed more than a year article-ship in law firms write the Bar and Solicitor examinations as prescribed by their professional regulating body, the Law Societies (e.g. Law Society of Upper Canada). The passed candidates are called to the degree of Barrister-at-law and issued with Certificate of Barristers and Solicitors and admit to practice in Her Majesty's Bar within the control of the Society. \n\nThe situation is somewhat different in Quebec as a result of its civil law tradition. The profession of solicitor, or \"avoué\", never took hold in colonial Quebec, so attorneys (\"avocats\") have traditionally been a fused profession, arguing and preparing cases in contentious matters, whereas Quebec's other type of lawyer, civil-law notaries (\"notaires\"), handle out-of-court non-contentious matters. However, a number of areas of non-contentious private law are not monopolized by notaries so that attorneys often specialise in handling either trials, cases, advising, or non-trial matters. The only disadvantage is that attorneys cannot draw up public instruments that have the same force of law as notarial acts. Most large law firms in Quebec offer the full range of legal services of law firms in common-law provinces. Intending Quebec attorneys must earn a bachelor's degree in civil law, pass the provincial bar examination, and successfully complete a legal internship to be admitted to practice. Attorneys are regulated by the Quebec Law Society (\"Barreau du Québec\").\n\nIn France, \"avocats\", or attorneys, were, until the 20th century, the equivalent of barristers. The profession included several grades ranked by seniority: \"avocat-stagiaire\" (trainee, who was already qualified but needed to complete two years (or more, depending on the period) of training alongside seasoned lawyers), \"avocat\", and \"avocat honoraire\" (senior barrister). Since the 14th century and during the course of the 19th and 20th in particular, French barristers competed in territorial battles over respective areas of legal practice against the \"conseil juridique\" (legal advisor, transactional solicitor) and \"avoué\" (procedural solicitor), and expanded to become the generalist legal practitioner, with the notable exception of \"notaires\" (notaries), who are ministry appointed lawyers (with a separate qualification) and who retain exclusivity over conveyancing and probate. After the 1971 and 1990 legal reforms, the \"avocat\" was fused with the \"avoué\" and the \"conseil juridique\", making the \"avocat\" (or, if female, \"avocate\") an all-purpose lawyer for matters of contentious jurisdiction, analogous to an American attorney. French attorneys usually do not (although it they are entitled to) act both as litigators (trial lawyers) and legal consultants (advising lawyers), known respectively as \"avocat plaidant\" and \"avocat-conseil\". This distinction is however purely informal and does not correspond to any difference in qualification or admission to the roll. All intending attorneys must pass an examination to be able to enrol in one of the \"Centre régional de formation à la profession d'avocat (CRFPA)\" (Regional centre for the training of lawyers). The \"CRFPA\" course has a duration of two years and is a mix between classroom teachings and internships. Its culmination is the \"stage final\" (final training), where the intending attorney spends 6 months in a law firm (generally in his/her favoured field of practice and in a firm in which he/she hopes to be recruited afterwards). The intending attorney then needs to pass the \"Certificat d'Aptitude à la Profession d'Avocat (CAPA)\", which is the last professional examination allowing him/her to join a court's bar (\"barreau\"). It is generally recognised that the first examination is much more difficult than the CAPA and is dreaded by most law students. Each bar is regulated by a Bar Council (\"Ordre du barreau\").\n\nIn Germany, no distinction is made and lawyers may plead at all courts with the exception of the civil branch of the Federal Court of Justice (\"Bundesgerichtshof\") to which fewer than fifty lawyers are admitted as of 10 August 2018. See the \"list of lawyers admitted to the Bundesgerichtshof\". Those lawyers may not plead at other courts, almost only deal with litigation, and are usually instructed by a lawyer who represented the client in the lower courts. However, these restrictions do not apply to criminal cases, nor to pleadings at courts of the other court systems (labour, administrative, taxation, and social courts, as well as the EU court system).\n\nThe legal profession in Hong Kong is also divided into two branches: barristers and solicitors.\n\nIn the High Court and the Court of Final Appeal, as a general rule, only barristers and solicitor-advocates are allowed to speak on behalf of any party in open court. This means that solicitors are restricted from doing so. In these two courts, barristers dress in the traditional English manner, as do the judges and other lawyers.\n\nIn Hong Kong, the rank of Queen's Counsel was granted prior to the transfer of the sovereignty of Hong Kong from the United Kingdom to China in 1997. After the handover, the rank has been replaced by Senior Counsel post-nominal letters: SC. Senior Counsel may still, however, style themselves as silks, like their British counterparts.\n\nIn India, the law relating to the Barrister is the Advocates Act, 1961 introduced and thought up by Ashoke Kumar Sen, the then law minister of India, which is a law passed by the Parliament and is administered and enforced by the Bar Council of India. Under the act, the Bar Council of India is the supreme regulatory body to regulate the legal profession in India and also to ensure the compliance of the laws and maintenance of professional standards by the legal profession in the country. For this purpose, the Bar Council of India is authorized to pass regulations and make orders in individual cases and also generally.\n\nEach State has a Bar Council of its own whose function is to enroll the Barristers willing to practise predominately within the territorial confines of that State and to perform the functions of the Bar Council of India within the territory assigned to them. Therefore, each law degree holder must be enrolled with a (single) State Bar Council to practise in India. However, enrollment with any State Bar Council does not restrict the Barrister from appearing before any court in India, even though it is beyond the territorial jurisdiction of the State Bar Council which he is enrolled in.\nThe advantage with having the State Bar Councils is that the work load of the Bar Council of India can be divided into these various State Bar Councils and also that matters can be dealt with locally and in an expedited manner. However, for all practical and legal purposes, the Bar Council of India retains with it, the final power to take decisions in any and all matters related to the legal profession on the whole or with respect to any \nThe process for being entitled to practise in India is twofold. First, the applicant must be a holder of a law degree from a recognized institution in India (or from one of the four recognised Universities in the United Kingdom) and second, must pass the enrollment qualifications of the Bar Council of the state where he/she seeks to be enrolled. For this purpose, the Bar Council of India has an internal Committee whose function is to supervise and examine the various institutions conferring law degrees and to grant recognition to these institutions once they meet the required standards. In this manner the Bar Council of India also ensures the standard of education required for practising in India are met with. As regards the qualification for enrollment with the State Bar Council, while the actual formalities may vary from one State to another, yet predominately they ensure that the application has not been a bankrupt /criminal and is generally fit to practise before courts of India.\nEnrollment with a Bar Council also means that the law degree holder is recognized as a Barrister and is required to maintain a standards of conduct and professional demeanor at all times, both on and off the profession. The Bar Council of India also prescribes \"Rules of Conduct\" to be observed by the Barristers in the courts, while interacting with clients and even otherwise.\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland, admission to the Bar by the Chief Justice of Ireland is restricted to those on whom a Barrister-at-Law degree (B.L.) has first been conferred. The Honorable Society of King's Inns is the only educational establishment which runs vocational courses for barristers in the Republic and degrees of Barrister-at-Law can only be conferred by King's Inns. King's Inns are also the only body with the capacity to call individuals to the bar and to disbar them.\n\nMost Irish barristers choose to be governed thereafter by the Bar Council of Ireland, a quasi-private entity. Senior members of the profession may be selected for elevation to the Inner Bar, when they may describe themselves as Senior Counsel (\"S.C.\"). Admission to the Inner Bar is made by declaration before the Supreme Court, patents of precedence having been granted by the Government. Irish barristers are sole practitioners and may not form chambers or partnerships if they wish to remain members of the Bar Council's Law Library.\n\nTo practise under the Bar Council of Ireland's rules, a newly qualified barrister is apprenticed to an experienced barrister of at least seven years' experience. This apprenticeship is known as pupillage or devilling. Devilling is compulsory for those barristers who wish to be members of the Law Library and lasts for one legal year. It is common to devil for a second year in a less formal arrangement but this is not compulsory.\n\nIn Israel there is no distinction between barristers and solicitors, even though the judicial system is based mostly on English common law, as a continuation of the British Mandate in Palestine.\n\nJapan adopts a unified system. However, there are certain classes of qualified professionals who are allowed to practise in certain limited areas of law, such as scriveners (\"shiho shoshi\", qualified to handle title registration, deposit, and certain petite court proceedings with additional certification), tax accountants (\"zeirishi\", qualified to prepare tax returns, provide advice on tax computation and represent a client in administrative tax appeals) and patent agents (\"benrishi\", qualified to practise patent registration and represent a client in administrative patent appeals). Only the lawyers (\"bengoshi\") can appear before court and are qualified to practise in any areas of law, including, but not limited to, areas that those qualified law-related professionals above are allowed to practise. Most attorneys still focus primarily on court practice and still a very small number of attorneys give sophisticated and expertised legal advice on a day-to-day basis to large corporations.\n\nThe Netherlands used to have a semi-separated legal profession comprising the lawyer and the \"procureur\", the latter resembling, to some extent, the profession of barrister. Under that system, lawyers were entitled to represent their clients in law, but were only able to file cases before the court at which they were registered. Cases falling under the jurisdiction of another court had to be filed by a \"procureur\" registered at that court, in practice often another lawyer exercising both functions. Questions were raised on the necessity of the separation, given the fact that its main purpose – the preservation of the quality of the legal profession and observance of local court rules and customs – had become obsolete. For that reason, the \"procureur\" as a separate profession was abolished and its functions merged with the legal profession in 2008. Currently, lawyers can file cases before any court, regardless of where they are registered. The only notable exception concerns cases brought before the Supreme Court, which have to be handled by lawyers registered in the district of South Holland, mainly for qualitative reasons.\n\nIn New Zealand, the professions are not formally fused but practitioners are enrolled in the High Court as \"Barristers and Solicitors\". They may choose, however, to practise as barristers sole. About 15% practise solely as barristers, mainly in the larger cities and usually in \"chambers\" (following the British terminology). They receive \"instructions\" from other practitioners, at least nominally. They usually conduct the proceedings in their entirety.\n\nAny lawyer may apply to become a Queen's Counsel (QC) to recognize long standing contribution to the legal profession but this status is only conferred on those practising as solicitors in exceptional circumstances. This step, referred to as \"being called to the inner bar\" or \"taking silk\", is considered highly prestigious and has been a step in the career of many New Zealand judges.\n\nUnlike other jurisdictions, the term \"junior barrister\" is popularly used to refer to a lawyer who holds a practising certificate as a barrister, but is employed by another, more senior barrister. Generally, junior barristers are within their first five years of practise and are not yet qualified to practise as barristers sole. Barristers sole (i.e. barristers who are not employed by another barrister) who are not Queen's Counsel are never referred to as junior barristers.\n\nIn Nigeria, there is no formal distinction between barristers and solicitors. All students who pass the bar examinations – offered exclusively by the Nigerian Law School – are called to the Nigerian bar, by the Body of Benchers. Lawyers may argue in any Federal trial or appellate court as well as any of the courts in Nigeria's 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory. The Legal Practitioner's Act, refers to Nigerian lawyers as Legal Practitioners, and following their call to the Bar, Nigerian lawyers enter their names in the register or Roll of Legal Practitioners kept at the Supreme Court. Perhaps for this reason, a Nigerian lawyer is also often referred to as a Barrister and Solicitor of the Supreme Court of Nigeria, and many Nigerian lawyers term themselves Barrister-at-Law complete with the postnominal initials \"B.L.\".\n\nThe vast majority of Nigerian lawyers combine contentious and non-contentious work, although there is a growing tendency for practitioners in the bigger practices to specialise in one or the other. In colloquial parlance within the Nigerian legal profession, lawyers may for this reason be referred to as \"litigators\" or as \"solicitors\".\n\nConsistent with the practice in England and elsewhere in the Commonwealth, senior members of the profession may be selected for elevation to the Inner Bar by conferment of the rank of Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN).\n\nIn Pakistan to practice as a Barrister, law graduates have to complete three steps. They have to pass the Bar Practice and Training Course (BPTC), be Called to the Bar by an Inn of Court from England and Wales and attain a licence to practice as an advocate in the Courts of Pakistan from the relevant Bar Council, provincial or federal.\n\nIn Poland, there are two main types of legal professions: advocate and legal counsel. Both are regulated and these professions are restricted only for people who graduated five-year law studies, have at least three years of experience and passed five difficult national exams (civil law, criminal law, company law, administrative law and ethic) or have a doctor of law degree. Before 2015, the only difference was that advocates have a right to represent clients before the court in all cases and the legal advisors could not represent clients before the court in criminal cases. Presently, the legal advisors can also represent clients in criminal cases so currently, the differences between this professions are only historical significance.\n\nIn South Africa the employment and practise of advocates (as barristers are known in South Africa) is consistent with the rest of the Commonwealth. Advocates carry the rank of Junior or Senior Counsel (SC), and are mostly briefed and paid by solicitors (known as attorneys). They are usually employed in the higher courts, particularly in the Appeal Courts where they often appear as specialist counsel. South African solicitors (attorneys) follow a practice of referring cases to Counsel for an opinion before proceeding with a case, when Counsel in question practises as a specialist in the case law at stake. Aspiring advocates currently spend one year in pupillage (formerly only six months) before being admitted to the bar in their respective provincial or judicial jurisdictions. The term 'Advocate' is sometimes used in South Africa as a title, e. g. 'Advocate John Doe, SC' ('Advokaat' in Afrikaans) in the same fashion as 'Dr. John Doe' for a medical doctor.\n\nIn South Korea, there is no distinction between the judiciary and lawyers. Previously, a person who has passed the national bar exam after two years of national education is able to become a judge, prosecutor, or \"lawyer\" in accordance to their grades upon graduation. As a result of changes from implementing an accommodated law school system, there are two standard means of becoming a lawyer. Under the current legal system, to be a judge or a prosecutor, lawyers need to practise their legal knowledge. A \"lawyer\" does not have any limitation of practice.\n\nSpain has a division but it does not correspond to the division in Britain between barristers/advocates and solicitors. \"Procuradores\" represent the litigant procedurally in court, generally under the authority of a power of attorney executed by a civil law notary, while \"abogados\" represent the substantive claims of the litigant through trial advocacy. \"Abogados\" perform both transactional work and advise in connection with court proceedings, and they have full right of audience in front of the court. The court proceeding is carried out with \"abogados\", not with procuradores. In a nutshell, procuradores are court agents that operate under the instructions of an \"abogado\". Their practice is confined to the locality of the court to which they are admitted.\n\nAlthough with somewhat different laws, England and Wales are considered within the United Kingdom a single united and unified legal jurisdiction for the purposes of both civil and criminal law, alongside Scotland and Northern Ireland, the other two legal jurisdictions within the United Kingdom. England and Wales are covered by a common bar (an organisation of barristers) and a single law society (an organisation of solicitors).\n\nThe profession of barrister in England and Wales is a separate profession from that of solicitor. It is, however, possible to hold the qualification of both barrister and solicitor at the same time. It is not necessary to leave the bar to qualify as a solicitor.\n\nBarristers are regulated by the Bar Standards Board, a division of the General Council of the Bar. A barrister must be a member of one of the Inns of Court, which traditionally educated and regulated barristers. There are four Inns of Court: The Honourable Society of Lincoln's Inn, The Honourable Society of Gray's Inn, The Honourable Society of the Middle Temple, and The Honourable Society of the Inner Temple. All are situated in central London, near the Royal Courts of Justice. They perform scholastic and social roles, and in all cases, provide financial aid to student barristers (subject to merit) through scholarships. It is the Inns that actually \"call\" the student to the Bar at a ceremony similar to a graduation. Social functions include dining with other members and guests and hosting other events.\n\nLaw graduates wishing to work and be known as barristers must take the Bar Professional Training Course (BPTC – previously Bar Vocational Course or BVC) at one of the institutions authorised by the Bar Council to offer the BPTC. On successful completion of the BPTC student barristers are \"called\" to the bar by their respective inns and are elevated to the degree of \"Barrister\". However, before they can practise independently they must first undertake 12 months of pupillage. The first six months of this period is spent shadowing more senior practitioners, after which pupil barristers may begin to undertake some court work of their own. Following successful completion of this stage, most barristers then join a set of Chambers, a group of counsel who share the costs of premises and support staff whilst remaining individually self-employed.\n\nIn December 2014 there were just over 15,500 barristers in independent practice, of whom about ten percent are Queen's Counsel and the remainder are junior barristers. Many barristers (about 2,800) are employed in companies as 'in-house' counsel, or by local or national government or in academic institutions.\n\nCertain barristers in England and Wales are now instructed directly by members of the public. Members of the public may engage the services of the barrister directly within the framework of the Public Access Scheme; a solicitor is not involved at any stage. Barristers undertaking public access work can provide legal advice and representation in court in almost all areas of law (see the Public Access Information on the Bar Council website) and are entitled to represent clients in any court or tribunal in England and Wales. Once instructions from a client are accepted, it is the barrister (rather than the solicitor) who advises and guides the client through the relevant legal procedure or litigation.\n\nBefore a barrister can undertake Public Access work, they must have completed a special course. At present, about one in 20 barristers has so qualified. There is also a separate scheme called 'Licensed Access', available to certain nominated classes of professional client; it is not open to the general public. Public access work is experiencing a huge surge at the bar, with barristers taking advantage of the new opportunity for the bar to make profit in the face of legal aid cuts elsewhere in the profession.\n\nThe ability of barristers to accept such instructions is a recent development; it results from a change in the rules set down by the General Council of the Bar in July 2004. The Public Access Scheme has been introduced as part of the drive to open up the legal system to the public and to make it easier and cheaper to obtain access to legal advice. It further reduces the distinction between solicitors and barristers. The distinction remains however because there are certain aspects of a solicitor's role that a barrister is not able to undertake.\n\nSome honorific suffixes to signify notable barristers may be \"Esquire\". Even though the term \"barrister-at-law\" is sometimes seen, and was once very common, it has never been formally correct in England and Wales. Barrister is the only correct nomenclature.\n\nIn April 2003 there were 554 barristers in independent practice in Northern Ireland. 66 were Queen's Counsel (QCs), barristers who have earned a high reputation and are appointed by the Queen on the recommendation of the Lord Chancellor as senior advocates and advisers.\n\nThose barristers who are not QCs are called Junior Counsel and are styled \"BL\" or \"Barrister-at-Law\". The term \"junior\" is often misleading since many members of the Junior Bar are experienced barristers with considerable expertise.\n\nBenchers are, and have been for centuries, the governing bodies of the four Inns of Court in London and King's Inns, Dublin. The Benchers of the Inn of Court of Northern Ireland governed the Inn until the enactment of the Constitution of the Inn in 1983, which provides that the government of the Inn is shared between the Benchers, the Executive Council of the Inn and members of the Inn assembled in General Meeting.\n\nThe Executive Council (through its Education Committee) is responsible for considering Memorials submitted by applicants for admission as students of the Inn and by Bar students of the Inn for admission to the degree of Barrister-at-Law and making recommendations to the Benchers. The final decisions on these Memorials are taken by the Benchers. The Benchers also have the exclusive power of expelling or suspending a Bar student and of disbarring a barrister or suspending a barrister from practice.\n\nThe Executive Council is also involved with: education; fees of students; calling counsel to the Bar, although call to the Bar is performed by the Lord Chief Justice of Northern Ireland on the invitation of the Benchers; administration of the Bar Library (to which all practising members of the Bar belong); and liaising with corresponding bodies in other countries.\n\nThe Bar Council is responsible for the maintenance of the standards, honour and independence of the Bar and, through its Professional Conduct Committee, receives and investigates complaints against members of the Bar in their professional capacity.\n\nIn Scotland, an advocate is, in all respects except name, a barrister, but there are significant differences in professional practice.\n\nIn Scotland, admission to and the conduct of the profession is regulated by the Faculty of Advocates (as opposed to an Inn).\n\nIn the Bailiwick of Jersey, there are solicitors (called \"ecrivains\") and advocates (French \"avocat\"). In the Bailiwicks of Jersey and Guernsey and on the Isle of Man, Advocates perform the combined functions of both solicitors and barristers.\n\nGibraltar is a British Overseas Territory boasting a legal profession based on the common law. The legal profession includes both barristers and solicitors with most barristers also acting as solicitors. Admission and Disciplinary matters in Gibraltar are dealt with by the Bar Council of Gibraltar and the Supreme Court of Gibraltar. In order for barristers or solicitors to be admitted as practising lawyers in Gibraltar they must comply with the Supreme Court Act 1930 as amended by the Supreme Court Amendment Act 2015 which requires, amongst other things, for all newly admitted lawyers as of the 1 July 2015 to undertake a year's course in Gibraltar law at the University of Gibraltar. Solicitors also have right of audience in Gibraltar's courts.\n\nThe United States does not draw a distinction between lawyers as pleaders (barristers) and lawyers as agents (or solicitors). All lawyers who have passed a bar examination and have been admitted to practice may prosecute or defend in the courts of the state where they are admitted. Historically, a distinction was made, and a separate label for barristers (called \"counselors\", hence the expression \"attorney \"and\" counselor at law\") existed in certain states, though both professions have long since been fused into the all-purpose attorney. Attorneys specializing in court procedure, combining advocacy and case preparation, are called \"trial attorneys\" or \"litigators\".\n\nAdditionally, some state appellate courts require attorneys to obtain a separate certificate of admission to plead and practise in the appellate court. Federal courts require specific admission to that court's bar to practise before it. At the state appellate level and in Federal courts, there is generally no separate examination process, although some U.S. district courts require an examination on practices and procedures in their specific courts. Unless an examination is required, admission is usually granted as a matter of course to any licensed attorney in the state where the court is located. Some federal courts will grant admission to any attorney licensed in any U.S. jurisdiction.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19235977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19235977", "title": "Campbell v Hall", "text": "Campbell v Hall\n\nThe matter was first heard in the Mayor's and City of London Court, which court found a special verdict and remitted it to the Court of King's Bench, which then heard the claim on a matter of law.\n\nThe decision turned on the validity of a tax imposed in Grenada. This was the trigger for an examination of the constitutional position of Grenada and for a review of the position in all British territories.\n\nThe political situation at the time of the judgment was interesting too; this was the time of the tax rebellion in the American colonies (including the West Indies) and was indeed two years before the American Declaration of Independence. The judgment therefore had the potential to cause political trouble.\n\nLord Mansfield's judgment looked beyond the narrow facts of the case. He reviewed the law applicable to British colonies in general and laid down a series of important points of constitutional law applicable to British possessions.\n\nGrenada was conquered from the French and formally ceded to Great Britain in 1763. The King issued a proclamation dated 7 October 1763 that all governors of the newly acquired colonies were instructed \"as soon as the state and circumstances of the said colonies will admit\" to call a general assembly. On 9 April 1764, the King (George III) appointed a Governor, General Melville.\n\nFinally, on 24 July 1764 (before Melville had set sail for Grenada) letters patent were issued to impose a four and a half per cent duty upon all goods and sugars exported from the island of Grenada, to equalise the duty across the Leeward Islands. Melville arrived in Grenada on 14 December 1764. In 1765 he summoned an assembly.\n\nJames Campbell bought a plantation on Grenada. William Hall was a collector of the four and a half per cent duty. Campbell brought a claim to recover from Hall the money he had paid as duty. Campbell claimed that 4½% duty had not been imposed by lawful or sufficient authority.\n\nCampbell succeeded, the decision turning on important constitutional principles.\n\nLord Mansfield CJ held that\n\nLord Mansfield's judgment reaffirmed the authority of the king to make law and impose taxation upon a colony by his own authority. In addition to past judicial pronouncements (of which few were found) he examined historical sources. In particular he found that the sovereign ruled freely by charter and decree in Ireland until its own parliament was founded, Wales until its annexation, Berwick-upon-Tweed until the days of James I and in Calais until its loss, and that power remained unchallenged in other extant British colonies.\n\nHowever, in contrast in Jamaica, which had a representative assembly, it had been previously decided that a governor could not override a troublesome assembly. Just as in Great Britain the King was restrained by Parliament, the Governor had no power to force laws or taxes on a colony without the consent of its assembly. Only an Act of the Parliament of Great Britain could do that.\n\nLord Mansfield recognised that the 4½% duty was fair and equitable, even desirable to avoid distorting trade between the Windward Islands. Nevertheless, he ruled it unlawful. Notwithstanding the crown's wide authority, where a colony has a representative assembly, taxation cannot be imposed without its consent or by Act of Parliament.\n\nIn this case the letters patent of 24 July 1764 predated by some months the existence of the assembly. Nevertheless, Lord Mansfield held that the requirement to call the assembly was in the King's proclamation of 9 April 1764. Therefore, the King's absolute authority ended on that date, notwithstanding that the assembly had not been called and indeed the governor who was to call it had not even left Britain.\n\n\"Campbell v. Hall\" has been cited or referred to in several later cases in the British Empire. Most pointedly it was cited with approval in \"West Rand Central Gold Mining Company, Limited v. The King\", a case which concerned the conquest of the Transvaal and the consequential extinction of the vanquished state's obligations. Its principles were also discussed and distinguished with respect to colonies acquired otherwise than by conquest, by the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in its 1938 ruling in \"Sammut v. Strickland\".\n\nIt was also argued in 2008 in \"R (Bancoult) v Secretary of State For Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs\" (also known as the Chagos Islanders case), where Lord Hoffmann, in introducing his opinion, stated:\n\nHe resumed later:\n\n\"Campbell v Hall\" also called into question the ouster of French law in Quebec by proclamation in 1763. As a result, the \"Quebec Act\" was passed in 1774 to confirm that French law continued to govern civil matters, but was ousted in favour of English law in criminal matters.\n\nParliament subsequently passed the \"Colonial Laws Validity Act 1865\" to deal with conflicting jurisprudence that arose in the years following \"Campbell\".\n\n"}
{"id": "40332495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40332495", "title": "Communal Chambers", "text": "Communal Chambers\n\nThe Communal Chambers were two parallel legislative bodies in Cyprus; one for the Greek Cypriot community and one for the Turkish Cypriot community. The Greek Chamber was abolished in 1965.\n\nThe Chambers were established under the 1960 constitution, with the first elections held on 7 August 1960. The Patriotic Front won a large majority in the Greek chamber and the Cyprus Turkish National Union won all the seats in the Turkish chamber.\n\nFollowing the withdrawal of the Turkish community from national politics in December 1963, in March 1965 the remaining Greek members of the House of Representatives passed a law abolishing the Greek Communal Chamber and transferring its responsibilities to the House of Representatives. A new Ministry of Education and Culture was established to take responsibility for educational and cultural issues.\n\nIn 1967 members of the Turkish chamber joined with the 15 Turkish former members of the House of Representatives to establish a new Turkish Cypriot Legislative Assembly. The chamber was never officially dissolved, although its powers have not been exercised in the Republic of Cyprus since the 1974 division of the island.\n\nArticle 87 of the constitution outlined their responsibilities:\n"}
{"id": "2744657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2744657", "title": "Consumer bankruptcy in Canada", "text": "Consumer bankruptcy in Canada\n\nConsumer bankruptcy in Canada is governed by the \"Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act\" (\"BIA\"). The legislation is complemented by regulations, as well as directives from the Office of the Superintendent of Bankruptcy that provide guidelines to trustees in bankruptcy on various aspects of the BIA.\n\nFor the purposes of the BIA, it is important to be able to distinguish between legal definition of \"insolvent person\" and one of \"bankrupt\". Generally, an insolvent person is one who cannot pay his or her debts and may subsequently become bankrupt, either by assigning himself into bankruptcy, being petitioned into bankruptcy by the creditors, or being deemed to assign himself into bankruptcy by defaulting on a Division I proposal.\n\nThe person who is unable to pay his obligation is considered to be an insolvent person under the BIA. Under s. 2 of the BIA, an \"insolvent person\" is a person who is not bankrupt and who resides, carries on business, or has property in Canada, whose liabilities to creditors provable as claims under this Act amount to $1,000, and\n\nInsolvent consumers, according to the BIA, have three main options \nThe four main players involved in consumer insolvency are Licensed Insolvency Trustee, Debtor/insolvent person, Creditors, Office of the Superintendent of Bankruptcy.\n\nUnder s. 2 of the BIA, an \"insolvent person\" can become \"bankrupt\" for the purposes of the BIA in three ways:\n\n\nThe bankruptcy process may be divided into three stages:\n\n\nThe bankrupt must:\n\n\nA bankrupt must also remit to the trustee the amount of his income that is determined to be surplus to his needs, for the benefit of the estate.\n\nContributions made to Registered Retirement Savings Plans (RRSPs), Registered Retirement Income Funds (RRIFs), and Deferred Profit Sharing Plans (DPSPs) in the twelve months prior to the date of bankruptcy will be recovered for the benefit of the bankruptcy estate in provinces other than British Columbia, Alberta, Ontario, New Brunswick, and Nova Scotia (where they are exempt from seizure under applicable provincial legislation). The court can extend the one-year recovery period where it is considered appropriate.\n\nThe bankrupt may apply to court at any time for discharge from bankruptcy (provided he has fulfilled his duties), and the court may grant it, either fully or conditionally.\n\nIn the case of first-time or second-time bankrupts, discharge occurs automatically (provided they have attended counselling sessions arranged by the trustee) as follows:\n\nThe above does not apply to a bankrupt that has personal income tax debt of $200,000 or more, which represents 75% or more of total unsecured claims. In this case, a hearing for an application for discharge may not be held before the end of the applicable period below:\n\nThe following debts are not released on discharge:\n\n\nIn the case of student loans, the seven-year period noted above, on application to the court, may be reduced to five years, if the court is satisfied:\n\nThe purpose of the bankruptcy process is to introduce a legislative mechanism that would provide a fair and peaceful resolution of financial conflict between debtors and creditors, creditors competing among themselves for recovery of their loans and balance public interest in protecting financial security of creditors on one hand and public interest in allowing an insolvent individual to make a fresh start. Generally, the objectives of the bankruptcy process can be summarized as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "45432312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45432312", "title": "Deferred Action for Parents of Americans", "text": "Deferred Action for Parents of Americans\n\nDeferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents (DAPA), sometimes called Deferred Action for Parental Accountability, was a planned American immigration policy to grant deferred action status to certain illegal immigrants who have lived in the United States since 2010 and have children who are either American citizens or lawful permanent residents. Deferred action is not full legal status but would come with a three-year, renewable work permit and exemption from deportation. DAPA was a presidential executive action, not a law passed by Congress.\n\nThe program was announced in November 2014 by President Barack Obama, along with a number of immigration reform steps including increased resources for border enforcement, new procedures for high-skilled immigrants, and an expansion of the existing Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program.\n\nSeveral states have filed lawsuits against the federal government, arguing that DAPA violates the Constitution and federal statutes. A temporary injunction was issued in February 2015, blocking the program from going into effect while the lawsuit proceeds. A U.S. Supreme Court 4–4 split decision in June 2016 effectively left the block in place.\n\nOn June 15, 2017, the Trump Administration announced that it was rescinding the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans order.\n\nOn June 27, 2013, the U.S. Senate’s Gang of Eight passed their comprehensive immigration reform bill in the Senate. When pressed to take unilateral executive action to limit deportations on Univision in March 2014, President Barack Obama replied “until Congress passes a new law, then I am constrained in terms of what I am able to do.”\n\nOn June 9, 2014, House Whip Kevin McCarthy announced that House Republicans had enough votes to pass the bill. However, the next day House Majority Leader Eric Cantor lost his primary election, so on June 30, Speaker John Boehner announced that he would not bring the bill to a vote. That same day, President Obama delivered remarks in the White House Rose Garden promising to “fix as much of our immigration system as I can on my own, without Congress.”\n\nOver the next eight months the Obama Administration went through sixty iterations of different possible executive actions. Finally, on November 20, 2014, President Obama delivered a primetime televised address to the nation announcing DAPA. The Office of Legal Counsel advised that the program was constitutional, finding it was similar to President George H. W. Bush’s 1990 \"Family Fairness\" program. Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson then released two memorandums directing the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement to make aliens without criminal histories the lowest priority for removal, and to grant deferred action to illegal immigrants who are the parents of a U.S. citizens or lawful permanent resident.\n\nThe President’s program, when combined with Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, would have delayed deportation of slightly less than half of the 11 million illegal aliens in the United States. More than 10 million people in the United States reside in a household with at least one adult who would have been eligible for DAPA, with two thirds of those adults having lived in the United States for 10 years or more. Over half the illegal aliens eligible for the President’s delayed deportation live in California, Texas, and New York.\n\nIn December 2014, Texas and 25 other states, all with Republican governors, sued in the District Court for the Southern District of Texas asking the court to enjoin implementation of both DAPA and the DACA expansion. On February 16, 2015, Judge Andrew S. Hanen issued a preliminary injunction blocking the DAPA program from going into effect while \"Texas v. United States\" proceeds.\n\nThe Obama Administration appealed the order for a preliminary injunction and asked the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit in New Orleans to stay the district court's injunction pending appeal. On May 26, 2015, the administration's motion for a stay was denied by a three member motions panel with one dissent, meaning that the government could not implement DAPA until the Fifth Circuit ruled on the appeal of the injunction order itself. That ruling came on November 9, 2015, with a three-member panel of the Fifth Circuit affirming the district court's preliminary injunction, with one dissent.\n\nThe divided circuit court affirmed the preliminary injunction and ordered the case back to the district court for trial. Judge Jerry Edwin Smith, joined by Judge Jennifer Walker Elrod agreed with the district court that Texas has standing because of the cost of issuing drivers licenses to aliens, and that President Obama’s order violated the rulemaking requirements of the Administrative Procedure Act. The majority made a new finding that the Immigration and Nationality Act “flatly does not permit” deferred action. Judge Carolyn Dineen King dissented, arguing that prosecutorial discretion makes the case non-justiciable, and that there had been “no justification” for the circuit court’s delay in ruling.\n\nOn November 10, 2015, the Justice Department announced it would ask the Supreme Court to reverse. Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton attempted to prolong consideration of the case until the next October term but the Supreme Court only granted him an eight-day extension to file his opposition brief. The Justice Department further hastened the case by waiving its right to file a reply brief. On January 19, 2016 the Supreme Court agreed to review the case. The Court took the unusual step of asking for briefing on the new constitutional question of whether DAPA violates the Take Care Clause.\n\nOn June 23, 2016, the Supreme Court announced it had deadlocked 4–4 in a decision that read, in its entirety, “The judgement is affirmed by an equally divided court.” The ruling set no precedent and simply leaves in place the lower court’s preliminary injunction blocking the program. The case may reach the Supreme Court again after Judge Hanen has held a trial.\n\nIn February 2015, the Migration Policy Institute estimated that about 3.7 million unauthorized immigrants in the United States are potentially eligible for DAPA, around 766 000 in just five counties: Los Angeles and Orange in California, Harris and Dallas in Texas, and Cook in Illinois.\n\nThe President’s program, when combined with Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, would have delayed deportation of slightly less than half of the 11 million illegal aliens in the United States. More than 10 million people in the United States reside in a household with at least one adult who would have been eligible for DAPA, with two thirds of those adults having lived in the United States for 10 years or more. Over half the illegal aliens eligible for the President’s delayed deportation live in California, Texas, and New York.\n\nThe program was challenged in federal court by 26 states. Of the 3.6 million illegal aliens eligible for DAPA, 2.2 million reside in states that did not join the lawsuit.\n\nA 2016 study of the impact of DACA on labor market outcomes for immigrants found that if the same effects apply to DAPA as DACA, then DAPA could potentially move over 250,000 unauthorized immigrants into employment.\n\nIf DAPA had been implemented, a person would have been eligible if the person:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49680032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49680032", "title": "ECOCITIES (software)", "text": "ECOCITIES (software)\n\nAll member states of the European Union are bound to decrease their greenhouse gas emissions. For example, the EU climate and energy package requires member states to improve their energy efficiency by 20%, increase -renewable energy production by 20% and reduce their emissions by 20%. With about 40% of CO2 emissions heating, cooling and hot water production in buildings is one of the largest greenhouse gas producers. At the same time the building sector has the largest potential for energy savings. In their effort to lead a change towards greater energy efficiency and a reduction of greenhouse gas, many companies, cities and municipalities are in the process of developing low carbon action plans. However, the costs for developing optimal action plans and their continuous monitoring and optimization are very high, thus, often hindered by the tense financial situation, especially of cities and municipalities. With significant economic and environmental downsides; the consequences are additional costs due to the non-compliance to the national and EU emission goals and untapped energy saving potential.\n\nECOCITIES is an energy optimization system for building portfolios combining and extending the benefits of Energy Management Software (EMS), Computer-aided Facility Management (CAFM) software and building portfolio management software. It integrates building administration and monitoring, energy accounting and building portfolio optimization. Thereby, it supports the definition of low carbon action plans in terms of environmental impact (e.g., carbon footprint, energy efficiency) and financial impact (e.g., investment costs, running, costs). The system considers the following options for each building and the resulting (inter-) dependencies:\n\nECOCITIES calculates all energy- and cost-efficient development scenarios, visualizes them on the screen and allows decision makers to interactively explore the consequences of their actions (e.g., what are the citywide costs and the corresponding CO2 reductions of introducing a neighborhood-scale combined heat and power plant). ECOCITIES is an enabler for the realization of energy goals and provides synergies with existing endeavors of achieving national and European energy goals. On an operational level, ECOCITIES supports the following processes:\n"}
{"id": "34032429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34032429", "title": "Energy usage of the United States military", "text": "Energy usage of the United States military\n\nThe United States Department of Defense is one of the largest single consumers of energy in the world, responsible for 93% of all US government fuel consumption in 2007 (Air Force: 52%; Navy: 33%; Army: 7%. Other DoD: 1%). In FY 2006, the DoD used almost 30,000 gigawatt hours (GWH) of electricity, at a cost of almost $2.2 billion. The DoD's electricity use would supply enough electricity to power more than 2.6 million average American homes. In electricity consumption, if it were a country, the DoD would rank 58th in the world, using slightly less than Denmark and slightly more than Syria (CIA World Factbook, 2006). The Department of Defense uses of fuel annually, an average of of fuel per day. A large Army division may use about per day. According to the 2005 \"CIA World Factbook\", if it were a country, the DoD would rank 34th in the world in average daily oil use, coming in just behind Iraq and just ahead of Sweden.\n\nThe military recognizes that renewable energy can provide improvements in force safety and budget stability as well as mitigate climate change so it has several programs working on deploying alternative energy at major facilities and in forward operating bases. Admiral Samuel J. Locklear has called climate change the biggest concern for the United States military.\n\nThe Air Force is the largest user of fuel energy in the federal government. The Air Force uses 10% of the nation's aviation fuel. (JP-8 accounts for nearly 90% of its fuels.) This fuel usage breaks down as such: 82% jet fuel, 16% facility management and 2% ground vehicle/equipment. To meet renewable energy goals, the Air Force plans to certify its entire fleet on coal-to-liquid synthetic fuel blends by 2011. By 2016, it plans to fuel half of its domestic transportation by US-produced synthetic blends, including blends of biofuels and jetfuels, known as Hydrotreated Renewable Jet (HRJ). The Air Force is currently the leading purchaser of renewable energy within the Federal government and has been a long time pioneer of renewable energy development and leadership. The Air Force is recognized by the Environmental Protection Agency as a Green Power Partner, one of the nation’s top purchasers of green power. The Air Force Energy Plan, published in May 2010, includes more information about the Air Force’s goals, including reducing demand, increasing supply, and changing the culture to include energy awareness.\n\nIn 2010, DoD established the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Operational Energy Plans and Programs to coordinate energy issues. In July 2010, DoD also signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the U.S. Department of Energy to facilitate cooperation and accelerate research, development, and deployment of energy efficiency and renewable energy technologies. DoD's Energy Conservation Investment Program (ECIP) improves the energy and water efficiency of existing Military Services' facilities. The program's projects help the Military Services save on energy usage and cost. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 provided $120 million for the ECIP. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 has also given money for the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, Army Reserve, Navy Reserve, Marine Corps Reserve, Air Force Reserve, Army National Guard and Air National Guard facilities to invest in energy efficiency.\n\nThe US Army has recently prioritized renewable energy strategies in Iraq. Strategies include the Tactical Garbage to Energy Refinery Program, which converts of waste to of JP-8 fuel, a photovoltaic flexible, portable mat, insulating foam technology, hybrid-electric Manned Ground Vehicles (MGV), and highly efficient portable cells. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act gave more than $150 million to develop these technologies. Stateside, the Army created the Net Zero program with a goal to have 30 installations achieve net-zero energy by 2030, including some that will also be net-zero in waste and water. In 2011, they opened the Base Camp Systems Integration Laboratory, which compares an energy efficient base camp with a traditional one and trains soldiers to use energy efficient technologies. The Army Energy Security Implementation Strategy, published in 2009, gives details about the Army’s energy goals.\n\nThe Department of the Navy established Task Force Energy to focus on meeting energy goals, which include reducing non-tactical petroleum use in the commercial fleet by 50 percent by 2015, producing at least 50 percent of shore based energy from alternative sources by 2050, acquiring 50 percent of total energy from alternative sources by 2020, and having 50 percent of Navy and Marine Corps installations be net-zero by 2020. The Navy hopes to demonstrate a Green Strike Group (fueled by biofuels and nuclear power) by 2012 and sail the Great Green Fleet by 2016. The Office of Naval Research developed and deployed the Experimental Forward Operating Base (ExFOB), including photovoltaic energy, shelter insulation, small unit water purification, and energy efficient heating, lighting, and cooling.\n\nThe Marine Corps established the Expeditionary Energy Office to increase combat effectiveness by reducing the need for liquid fossil fuel by 50 percent by 2025, using liquid fuel for mobility only.\n\nThe Defense Department plans to invest $9 billion to improve energy use in military operations through 2017.\n\nThrough the SolarStrong program, a total of 300MW of PV installations were done on 120,000 roofs of base housing throughout the U.S. The 14MW Nellis Solar Power Plant went online in 2007. Fort Bliss has a 1.4MW PV array as well as 13MW of base housing PV and a second 15MW solar farm should be online in 2015. Fort Irwin had initially proposed a 500MW PV farm but 15MW solar farm was later awarded for construction with a separate 2MW PV system at the base hospital. A 14MW PV plant was built at China Lake in 2011.\n\nFort Drum converted a coal power plant to a 28MW biomass plant. In 2014, the U.S. military invested $210 million in 3 biofuel refineries which will produce fuels which meet military specifications.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12999302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12999302", "title": "European civil code", "text": "European civil code\n\nThe European civil code (ECC) is a proposed harmonisation of private law across the European Union. \n\nThe ultimate aim of a European civil code is, like a national civil code, to deal comprehensively with the core areas of private law. Private law typically covered in a civil code includes the family law, the law of inheritance, property law and the Law of Obligations. The law of obligations includes the law of contracts, delicts (or torts) and restitution. It was from work on European contract law that the push for a comprehensive European civil code arose. The development of a European civil code has primarily focused on creating a unified law of contracts. Thus, the term 'European civil code' is often used in specific reference to the harmonisation of contract law throughout the EU.\n\nThe idea of a unified European civil code can be traced to the idea of a unified Europe and the creation of the European Union. The European Parliament requested the creation of a European civil code in 1989, 1994 and 2000. A pragmatic approach has seen the proponents of a European civil code develop uniform laws in discrete areas before working towards a comprehensive European civil code.\n\nDevelopment of a European code for contract law began in 1982 with the formation of the Commission on European Contract Law. This became known as the Lando Commission after its chairman Ole Lando. At the same time UNIDROIT began similar studies leading to their 1994 publication Principles for International Commercial Contracts. The Lando Commission focused on creating their \"Principles of European Contract Law\" (PECL). The first part of the PECL was published in 1995, followed by Part II in 1999 and the final Part III in 2003. These Principles of European Contract Law may eventually form one part of the European civil code.\n\nIn 1997 the Dutch Government, as then Chair of the European Union, held a conference titled 'Towards a European Civil Code'. The conference considered the feasibility of such a code and led to the creation of a book titled \"Towards a European Civil Code\". The third edition was published in 2004 and although the primary focus is European contract law, it considers other areas of private law that may form part of a European civil code as well. The years following this conference have seen the development of many academic groups focusing on different areas of private law. These include: \n\n\nOn 11 July 2001, the European Commission issued a Communication in relation to possible developments in European contract law. Following the review of submissions on the Communication, the Commission released an Action Plan for a more coherent European contract law in 2003. The Action Plan began the process of creating what is known as the \"Common Frame of Reference\" (CFR). This was followed in 2004 by the publication of “European Contract Law and revision of the acquis: the way forward”. The CFR is intended to provide a structure and guideline for the development of harmonised European private law but has a specific focus on contract law. It was hoped that the creation of a unified European contract law would be achieved by 2010.\n\nThe \"Draft Common Frame of Reference\" (DCFR), a joint project of the Study Group and Acquis Group (funded by the European Commission for €4.3 million), was published in December 2007. Although the European Commission downplayed the CFR's expected future importance in a July 2006 report, a March 2006 European Parliament resolution stated that \"Even though the Commission denies that this is its objective, it is clear that many of the researchers and stakeholders working on the project believe that the ultimate long-term outcome will be a European code of obligations or even a full-blown European Civil Code.\" Economist Gerhard Wagner hailed \"the drafting of a coherent set of rules\" for all of Europe, such as the DCFR, as \"an immense scientific achievement\".\n\nA comprehensive European civil code would cover the major areas of private law in much the same way as domestic civil codes. The major areas that have been suggested are contract law, torts, property, restitution and also company law. \n\nAlthough family law and inheritance law are normally covered by domestic civil codes there is doubt over whether it is possible to include them in a broad European code. Family and Inheritance law is often closely tied to a nation’s culture. For this reason it may not be possible or suitable to create a uniform code to cover the entire European Union. \nAs previously stated, contract law is perhaps the most suited for harmonisation, followed by other areas of the law of obligations and the law of property.\nThe creation of individual codes for discrete areas of private law is considered the most feasible and realistic goal. For this reason efforts have concentrated on creating a unified European contract law before attempting a more comprehensive European civil code. \n\nAn example of a modern comprehensive code is the Dutch \"Burgerlijk Wetboek\" which came into force in 1992. The \"Burgerlijk Wetboek\" covers civil, commercial law, consumer law and labour law and was almost 40 years in the making. This gives an indication of how long it may take to create a complete unified European civil code. The March 2006 European Parliament resolution recommended taking the new Dutch civil code as a model as well.\n\nMany arguments have been raised both supporting and rejecting the idea of a European civil code. Included in this are claims that the creation of a civil code binding across the European Union will be impossible to achieve. As a much broader project, the creation of a European civil code is more easily dismissed than attempts at unifying discrete areas such as contract law.\n\nArguments supporting a unified European civil code relate to the emergence of the European Union and an increasingly globalised economy. Proponents also point out that Europe, including England, shares a long legal history in the form of the \"ius commune\" before the 18th and 19th century national codifications. Besides, except for England and Ireland, all of Europe shares the civil law tradition which began with the Napoleonic Code of 1804.\n\n\nThe feasibility of a European civil code has been questioned on both political and legal grounds. Cultural differences and the lack of a common European legal culture are often cited by opponents. The connection between law, language, culture and national history forms one small aspect of the arguments against replacing national civil codes with a European code. Arguments based upon cultural differences are, however, difficult to establish.\n\nMore substantive difficulties, which for some are reasons why it is neither feasible nor desirable to create a European civil code, include: \n\n\nIn April 2017, after Theresa May triggered Article 50 for the UK, Guy Verhofstadt remarked that \"it was naïve, maybe, to reconcile the legal system of Napoleon with the common law of the British Empire, and perhaps it was never meant to be. But our predecessors should never be blamed for having tried to.\"\n\nWhether the European Union has the legal power to create a European civil code has also been an issue. Article 95 of the EC Treaty is considered the means through which a code would be created. However, many people believe that the EU lacks the constitutional competence to enact a comprehensive code. Others argue that this does not defeat the idea of a European civil code and is merely a political issue. If a general consensus were to be reached in favour of a European civil code, it might be politically possible to expand the constitutional competence of the European Union or create an international treaty giving effect to the code. According to professor Christian von Bar \"it fully depends on a political decision of the European Commission, the [EU] Council and the European Parliament if in the end, the \"Common Frame of Reference\" will be adopted as an EU instrument.\"\n\nAs previously stated, the discussion of a European civil code has had a primary focus on the development of a unified European contract code. Proponents of a European code of contract law have largely been divided into two groups. One group favours the use of the acquis communautaire (the body of European Union law) as the basis of a unified European contract law. The other has preferred a foundation in the field of comparative law and analysis of the domestic contract law of member states of the EU. The latter view was the initially dominant opinion in the field, but more recently the Acquis position has come to the fore.\n\nBoth options were provided for in the Commission of European Communities 2001 Communication on European contract law. Although there were many submissions supporting both fields of thought, most favoured a review of the Acquis as a basis for developing European contract law. The subsequent Action Plan and its follow up Way Forward paper have progressed the development of a European code of contract law as well as a more comprehensive European civil code. The intended outcome of this new stage is the publication of the Common Frame of Reference. The CFR is hoped by some to form the central part of a future unified European contract law, although this is not its purpose. It is expected to be published in 2009/10.\n\nProfessor European Private Law Martijn W. Hesselink (director of the Amsterdam Centre for the Study of European Contract Law at the University of Amsterdam) argued in October 2007 that the development of a European contract code, or more broadly, civil code, should happen transparently, and with the participation and consent of citizens, consumers and smaller companies, lest big businesses will be able to obtain too much power over the others.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27156756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27156756", "title": "Evidence-based prosecution", "text": "Evidence-based prosecution\n\nEvidence-based prosecution' (sometimes termed \"victimless prosecution\") refers to a collection of techniques utilized by prosecutors in domestic violence cases to convict abusers without the cooperation of an alleged victim. It is widely practiced within the American legal system by specialized prosecutors and state's attorneys and relies on utilizing a variety of evidence to prove the guilt of an abuser with limited or adverse participation by the abuser's victim, or even no participation at all.\n\nEvidence-based Prosecution arose from the unique challenges facing prosecutors in domestic violence cases. While domestic abuse has been prevalent throughout history and its impacts severe, only in recent decades has prosecution been undertaken aggressively.\nSince the 1970s, increased public awareness has led to tougher laws and an ever-expanding role for law enforcement and the criminal court system in what had previously been regarded as \"a family matter\".\nWhile in the 1980s as little as 5% of domestic abuse cases with injuries would be routinely prosecuted, in 2010, the rate in some jurisdictions approached 80%.\n\nProsecutors managing these cases face a constant problem of victims who are unable or unwilling to cooperate with prosecution. In jurisdictions with aggressive enforcement of domestic violence laws, approximately 65-70% of victims do not cooperate with prosecution. This occurs for a variety of reasons and includes seeking dismissal of charges, lying to prosecutors or police, recanting statements about the abuse, refusing to talk about the abuse, perjuring themselves in court to protect the abuser, or refusing to come to court altogether.\n\nEvidence-based prosecution arose from the desire to prosecute individuals in domestic violence cases either without placing pressure on the victim to cooperate when she or he might face retaliation or other dangers from doing so, or when such pressure is applied but ineffective. It was first used in the 1980s, but did not become widespread until the 1990s. By 2004, it was actually preferred by some prosecutors, who reported higher conviction rates without victim cooperation than with it. As of 2010, the use of evidence-based prosecution is strongly encouraged, if not mandated, for agencies receiving federal funding through the STOP Violence Against Women Act.\n\nIn its infancy, evidence-based prosecution was often called \"victimless prosecution,\" although this has since become a slang term only, neither factually accurate nor politically correct. As prosecutors and victim advocates frequently point out, evidence-based prosecution often does not deal with a \"victimless\" crime, nor does it seek to remove the victim or her interests from the case, but rather seeks to focus on the crime and its impact without relying on the victim's participation. Of course, all prosecutions are based on evidence, so the term \"evidence-based\" prosecution, while politically correct, is not at all descriptive. In context, \"evidence-based\" prosecution is best understood as a prosecution without any testimony from most or all of the principal witnesses and instead making effective use of all remaining or alternative forms of evidence.\n\nThe most common pieces of evidence used in evidence-based prosecution are:\n911 call recordings and transcripts,\nChild witness statements,\nNeighbor witness statements,\nMedical records,\nParamedic log sheets,\nPrior police reports,\nRestraining orders,\nBooking records,\nLetters from the suspect,\nVideotaped/Audio taped interviews with the victim, and\nDefendant's statements.\n\nThe basic techniques in utilizing these and other pieces of evidence loosely resemble the use of circumstantial evidence in murder cases (in which, of course, the victim is never available to testify). For instance, a recording of a 911 call by the victim might be used to convey what happened to the judge or jury if the victim is not in court to testify, refuses to talk about what happened, or is not truthful about it. Likewise, statements from the Defendant in the case, such as to police officers or detectives, might be introduced to show inconsistencies or admissions about the abuse.\n\nThe evidence is often complemented by the use of expert witness testimony from a domestic violence expert, often an experienced victim advocate, researcher, or law enforcement officer. The expert witness helps explain to a judge or jury the reasons a victim may be absent or testifying on behalf of the alleged abuser, as well as educating them on the dynamics of domestic violence and victimization.\n\nThe Benefits of evidence-based prosecution are obvious from the prosecutor's point of view. It can result in more convictions of domestic abusers, particularly those who might otherwise go free as a result of their effectiveness in manipulating or threatening their victims to keep them from testifying. It also has the benefit of keeping both uncooperative and cooperative victims safer by placing less emphasis on their role in prosecution and more on that of the State, resulting, at least ideally, in less reason for the abuser to seek revenge against the victim.\n\nProponents also look to the drop in domestic violence homicides over the past 20 years as a sign that evidence-based prosecution, in conjunction with other changes, is working to save lives.\n\nEvidence-based prosecution also generates obvious criticisms, from both an ethical and practical prospective. Its use to override a victim's wishes is based upon a paternalistic concept of the State's role in fighting domestic abuse. While prosecutors and victim advocates often contend that an uncooperative victim's desire not to prosecute is based on manipulation and coercion, there are also contrary views.\n\nMany victims of domestic violence constantly make rational choices concerning their own safety and may be in a better position than the prosecutor to judge whether prosecution helps or hurts. Domestic violence most often turns into domestic homicide when the victim is leaving the relationship, something that may be pushed if not forced by aggressive prosecution.\n\nIn 2004, the United States Supreme Court decided the case of \"Crawford v. Washington\", in which they reversed the conviction of a defendant who had been found guilty of stabbing a man based partially on statements made by his wife to police, which were introduced at trial under a hearsay exception, despite her not being available to testify. The Court held admitting out of court statements under a hearsay exception, even if deemed reliable by the court, violates a defendant's Sixth Amendment Confrontation Clause right. This new standard replaced a long-standing doctrine set out in \"Ohio v. Roberts\", in which the Court had previously held that a trial court can admit out of court statements under tradition hearsay exceptions so long as the statements had certain indicators of reliability.\n\nThe Court's decision had a significant impact on evidence-based prosecution by limiting the use of many of the hearsay exceptions relied upon by prosecutors. Subsequent decisions such as \"Davis v. Washington\" have further limited the doctrine specifically regarding 911 call recordings.\n\nThese decisions have severely curtailed the number of the cases in which prosecutors can utilize evidence-based prosecution. In order to continue the practice, prosecutors have turned to improving law enforcement training at response and investigation in domestic violence cases so that police gather as much admissible evidence as possible.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40844041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40844041", "title": "Ex parte Stephens' Estate", "text": "Ex parte Stephens' Estate\n\nIn Ex parte Stephens' Estate, an important case in the South African law of succession, the deceased disposed of his estate in terms of fractions, but only provided for nine tenths of the estate. One tenth, therefore, was not provided for. It was argued that it should be divided among the named beneficiaries in the will.\n\nThe court held that the Roman law \"nemo pro parte\" rule did not apply in South Africa; therefore, the estate was to be divided partly testate and partly intestate. Had the court divided the remaining one tenth between the nine beneficiaries, it would effectively have been rectifying the will. It held, accordingly, that the remaining one tenth was to be devolved in terms of the law of intestate succession.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3424984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3424984", "title": "Exemplified copy", "text": "Exemplified copy\n\nAn exemplified copy (or exemplification) is an official attested copy or transcript of a public instrument, made under the seal and original pen-in-hand signature of a court or public functionary and in the name of the sovereign, for example, \"The People of the State of New York\". Exemplifications can only be attested and executed by either the authority holding the record or the issuing authority. Exemplified copies are also usually an extract or transcript made directly from the original. They can be contrasted with certified copies which are attested by a public authority who does not necessarily execute the copy; are signed and sealed by the certifier, not necessarily the issuing authority or recorder; and are a facsimile, made from the original or not, and vary as to faithfulness, for example, fair copy, imitative copy, and so forth.\n\nCertified copies of birth and death records from New York City, Los Angeles, Georgia, and in certain other locations in the US can, if requested, be accompanied by a letter of exemplification. This is the first step in a process leading to authentication or an apostille. In Canada and Australia and certain other common-law jurisdictions, exemplifications may be made of any official document by a notary public.\n\nMore specifically, the term refers to an attested copy of a legal pleading in its entirety. In this sense it is also known as a triple certificate or three-way certificate. Its authenticity is sworn to by the clerk of the court where the judgment was rendered and counter-authenticated by the presiding judicial officer of that Court. The clerk then swears to the authenticity of the judge's signature, incumbency, and authority. The certificate page with the triple authentication is called the exemplification. A copy of this type is normally required by other states and countries when copies are being submitted for filing in their local court.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17653262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17653262", "title": "Factors associated with being a victim of sexual violence", "text": "Factors associated with being a victim of sexual violence\n\nOne of the most common forms of sexual violence around the world is that which is perpetrated by an intimate partner, leading to the conclusion that one of the most important risk factors for people in terms of their vulnerability to sexual assault is being married or cohabiting with a partner. Other factors influencing the risk of sexual violence include:\n\nYoung women are usually found to be more at risk of rape than older women. According to data from justice systems and rape crisis centres in Chile, Malaysia, Mexico, Papua New Guinea, Peru and the United States, between one-third and two-thirds of all victims of sexual assault are aged 15 years or less. Certain forms of sexual violence, for instance, are very closely associated with a young age, in particular violence taking place in schools and colleges, and trafficking in women for sexual exploitation.\nIncreased vulnerability to sexual violence also stems from the use of alcohol and other drugs. Consuming alcohol or drugs makes it more difficult for people to protect themselves by interpreting and effectively acting on warning signs. Drinking alcohol may also place a person in settings where his or her chances of encountering a potential offender are greater.\n\nThere is some evidence linking experiences of sexual abuse in childhood or adolescence with patterns of victimization during adulthood. A national study of violence against women in the United States found that women who were raped before the age of 18 years were twice as likely to be raped as adults, compared with those who were not raped as children or adolescents (18.3% and 8.7%, respectively).\n\nThe effects of early sexual abuse may also extend to other forms of victimization and problems in adulthood. For instance, a case control study in Australia on the long-term impact of abuse reported significant associations between child sexual abuse and\nexperiencing rape, sexual and mental health problems, domestic violence and other problems in intimate relationships even after accounting for various family background characteristics. Those who had experienced abuse involving intercourse had more negative outcomes than those suffering other types of coercion.\n\nWomen are at increased risk of sexual violence, as they are of physical violence by an intimate partner, when they become more educated and thus more empowered. Women with no education were found in a national survey in South Africa to be much less likely to experience sexual violence than those with higher levels of education. In Zimbabwe, women who were working were much more likely to report forced sex by a spouse than those who were not. The likely explanation is that greater empowerment brings with it more resistance from women to patriarchal norms, so that men may resort to violence in an attempt to regain control. The relationship between empowerment and physical violence is an n-shape with greater empowerment conferring greater risk up to a certain level, beyond which it starts to become protective. It is not known, though, whether this is also the case for sexual violence.\n\nPoor women and girls may be more at risk of rape in the course of their daily tasks than those who are better off, for example when they walk home on their own from work late at night, or work in the fields or collect firewood alone. Children of poor women may have less parental supervision when not in school, since their mothers may be at work and unable to afford child care. The children\nthemselves may, in fact, be working and thus vulnerable to sexual exploitation. Poverty forces many women and girls into\noccupations that carry a relatively high risk of sexual violence, particularly sex work. It also creates enormous pressures for them to find or maintain jobs, to pursue trading activities and, if studying, to obtain good grades, all of which render them vulnerable to sexual coercion from those who can promise these things. Poorer women are also more at risk of intimate partner violence, of which sexual violence is often a manifestation.\n\n"}
{"id": "11293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11293", "title": "Felony", "text": "Felony\n\nThe term felony, in some common law countries, is defined as a serious crime. The word originates from English common law (from the French medieval word \"félonie\"), where felonies were originally crimes involving confiscation of a convicted person's land and goods. Other crimes were called \"misdemeanors\". Many common law countries have now abolished the felony/misdemeanor distinction and replaced it with other distinctions, such as between indictable offences and summary offences. A felony is generally considered a crime of high seriousness, but a misdemeanor is not.\n\nA person who has committed a felony is a felon. In addition, upon conviction of a felony in a court of law, a person is known as a convicted felon or a convict. In the United States, where the felony/misdemeanor distinction is still widely applied, the federal government defines a felony as a crime punishable by death or imprisonment in excess of one year. If punishable by exactly one year or less, it is classified as a misdemeanor. The actual prison sentence handed out has no effect on the classification, which is based on the \"maximum\" sentence possible under law. Individual states may differ in that definition by using other categories, such as seriousness or context.\n\nSimilar to felonies in some civil law countries (such as Italy and Spain) are \"delicts\", but in others (such as France, Belgium, and Switzerland), \"crimes\" are more serious and \"delicts\" (or délits) are less serious. In still others (such as Brazil and Portugal), \"crimes\" and \"delicts\" are synonymous (more serious) and are opposed to contraventions (less serious).\n\nFelonies include but are not limited to the following:\n\nBroadly, felonies can be characterized as either violent or nonviolent:\n\nSome offenses, though similar in nature, may be felonies or misdemeanors depending on the circumstances. For example, the illegal manufacture, distribution or possession of controlled substances may be a felony, although possession of small amounts may be only a misdemeanor. Possession of a deadly weapon may be generally legal, but carrying the same weapon into a restricted area such as a school may be viewed as a serious offense, regardless of whether there is intent to use the weapon. Additionally, driving while intoxicated in some states may be a misdemeanor if a first offense, but a felony on subsequent offenses.\n\nA felony may be punishable with imprisonment for two or more years or death in the case of the most serious felonies, such as murder. Indeed, at common law when the British and American legal systems divorced in 1776, felonies were crimes punishable by either death or forfeiture of property. All felonies remain a serious crime, but concerns of proportionality (i.e., that the punishment fit the crime) have in modern times prompted legislatures to require or permit the imposition of less serious punishments, ranging from lesser terms of imprisonment to the substitution of a jail sentence or even the suspension of all incarceration contingent upon a defendant's successful completion of probation. Standards for measurement of an offense's seriousness include attempts to quantitatively estimate and compare the effects of a crime upon its specific victims or upon society generally.\n\nIn some states, all or most felonies are placed into one of various classes according to their seriousness and their potential punishment upon conviction. The number of classifications and the corresponding crimes vary by state and are determined by the legislature. Usually, the legislature also determines the maximum punishment allowable for each felony class; doing so avoids the necessity of defining specific sentences for every possible crime. For example:\n\nSir William Blackstone wrote that felony \"comprises every species of crime, which occasioned at common law the forfeiture of lands or goods.\" The word \"felony\" was feudal in origin, denoting the value of a man's entire property: \"...the consideration for which a man gives up his fief.\" Blackstone refutes the misconception that felony simply means an offense punishable by death, by demonstrating that not every felony is capital, and not every capital offense is a felony. However he concedes that \"the idea of felony is indeed so generally connected with that of capital punishment, that we find it hard to separate them; and to this usage the interpretations of the law do now conform.\"\n\nThe death penalty for felony could be avoided by pleading benefit of clergy, which gradually evolved to exempt everybody (whether clergy or not) from that punishment for a first offense, except for high treason and offenses expressly excluded by statute. During the 19th century criminal law reform incrementally reduced the number of capital offenses to five \"(see Capital punishment in the United Kingdom)\", and forfeiture for felony was abolished by the Forfeiture Act 1870. Consequently, the distinction between felony and misdemeanor became increasingly arbitrary. The surviving differences consisted of different rules of evidence and procedure, and the Law Commission recommended that felonies be abolished altogether. This was done by the Criminal Law Act 1967, which made all felonies (except treason) misdemeanours, and introduced a new system of classifying crimes as either \"arrestable\" and \"non-arrestable\" offenses (according to which a general power of arrest was available for crimes punishable by five years' imprisonment or more).\n\nArrestable offenses were abolished in 2006, and today crimes are classified as indictable or summary offenses.\n\nThe Trials for Felony Act 1836 (6 & 7 Will 4 c 114) allowed persons indicted for felonies to be represented by counsel or attorney.\n\nA person prosecuted for felony was called a prisoner.\n\nIn the law of the Republic of Ireland the distinction between felony and misdemeanor was abolished by section 3 of the Criminal Law Act, 1997, such that the law previously applied to misdemeanours was extended to all offences. Minister Joan Burton, introducing the bill in the Seanad, said \"The distinction has been eroded over many years and in today's conditions has no real relevance. Today, for example, serious offences such as fraudulent conversion and obtaining property by false pretences are classified as misdemeanours whereas a relatively trivial offence such as stealing a bar of chocolate is a felony.\" The 1997 Act, modelled on the English Criminal Law Act 1967, introduced the category of \"arrestable offence\" for those with penalties of five years' imprisonment or greater.\n\nThe 1937 Constitution declares that the parliamentary privilege, which protects Oireachtas members from arrest travelling to or from the legislature, does not apply to \"treason, felony, and breach of the peace\". The 1996 Constitutional Review Group recommended replacing \"felony\" with \"serious criminal offence\".\n\nThe reform of harsh felony laws that had originated in Great Britain was deemed \"one of the first fruits of liberty\" after the United States became independent.\n\nIn many parts of the United States, a felon can face long-term legal consequences persisting after the end of their imprisonment.\nThe status and designation as a \"felon\" is considered permanent, and is not extinguished upon sentence completion even if parole, probation or early release was given. The status can be cleared only by a successful appeal or executive clemency. However, felons may qualify for restoration of some rights after a certain period of time has passed.\n\nThe consequences felons face in most states include:\n\nAdditionally, many job applications and rental applications ask about felony history (with the exception of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts) and answering dishonestly on them can be grounds for rejecting the application, or termination if the lie is discovered after hire. Convicted felons may not be eligible for certain professional licenses or bonds, or may raise the cost of an employer's insurance. \n\nIt is broadly legal to discriminate against felons in hiring decisions as well as the decision to rent housing to a person, so felons can face barriers to finding both jobs and housing. Many landlords will not rent to felons, although a blanket ban on renting to felons may violate federal housing law. A common term of parole is to avoid associating with other felons. In some neighborhoods with high rates of felony conviction, this creates a situation where many felons live with a constant threat of being arrested for violating parole. Banks may refuse to issue loans to felons, and a felony conviction may prevent employment in banking or finance.\n\nIn some states, restoration of those rights depends on repayment of various fees associated with the felon's arrest, processing, and prison stay, such as restitution to victims, or outstanding fines.\n\nThe primary means of restoring civil rights that are lost as a result of a felony conviction are executive clemency and Expungement in the United States.\n\nFor state law convictions, expungement is determined by the law of the state. Many states do not allow expungement, regardless of the offense, though felons can seek pardons and clemency, potentially including restoration of rights.\n\nFederal law does not have any provisions for persons convicted of federal felonies in a federal United States district court to apply to have their record expunged. At present the only relief that an individual convicted of a felony in federal court may receive is a presidential pardon, which does not expunge the conviction, but rather grants relief from the civil disabilities that stem from it.\n\nFelonies (\"Verbrechen\") are defined as a crime that is punishable with a minimum of one year's imprisonment. Misdemeanours (\"Vergehen\") are all other crimes punishable by imprisonment with a minimum of less than one year or by fine.\n\nHowever, in some cases a severe version misdemeanor may be punished with imprisonment of more than one year, yet the crime itself remains considered a misdemeanor. Same applies for a milder version of a felony that is punishable with imprisonment less than a year.\n\nAn attempt to commit a felony is always punishable, whilst an attempt to commit a misdemeanor is solely punishable if particularly prescribed by law.\n\nA plea bargain (, popularly known as a \"Deal\") is not applicable for felony crimes at all.\n\n"}
{"id": "163152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=163152", "title": "Freedom of information laws by country", "text": "Freedom of information laws by country\n\nFreedom of Information laws (FOI laws) allow access by the general public to data held by national governments. The emergence of freedom of information legislation was a response to increasing dissatisfaction with the secrecy surrounding government policy development and decision making. They establish a \"right-to-know\" legal process by which requests may be made for government-held information, to be received freely or at minimal cost, barring standard exceptions. Also variously referred to as open records, or sunshine laws (in the United States), governments are typically bound by a duty to publish and promote openness. In many countries there are constitutional guarantees for the right of access to information, but these are usually unused if specific support legislation does not exist.\n\nOver 100 countries around the world have implemented some form of freedom of information legislation. Sweden's Freedom of the Press Act of 1766 is the oldest in the world.\n\nMost freedom of information laws exclude the private sector from their jurisdiction thus information held by the private sector cannot be accessed as a legal right. This limitation has serious implications because the private sector performs many functions which were previously the domain of the public sector. As a result, information that was previously public is now within the private sector, and the private contractors cannot be forced to disclose information.\n\nOther countries are working towards introducing such laws, and many regions of countries with national legislation have local laws. For example, all U.S. states have laws governing access to public documents belonging to the state and local taxing entities. Additionally, the U.S. Freedom of Information Act governs record management of documents in the possession of the federal government.\n\nA related concept is open meetings legislation, which allows access to government meetings, not just to the records of them. In many countries, privacy or data protection laws may be part of the freedom of information legislation; the concepts are often closely tied together in political discourse.\n\nA basic principle behind most freedom of information legislation is that the burden of proof falls on the body \"asked\" for information, not the person \"asking\" for it. The person making the request does not usually have to give an explanation for their actions, but if the information is not disclosed a valid reason has to be given.\n\nIn 2015 The UNESCO General Conference voted to designate Sept. 28 as “International Day for the Universal Access to Information” or, as it is more commonly known, Access to Information Day. The date had previously been celebrated as “Right to Know Day” since 2002. The UNESCO resolution recommends approval by the UN General Assembly.\n\nIn Albania, the constitution of 1998 guarantees the right of access to information; the legislation for supporting this is Law no. 119/2014 \"On the right to information\" (Ligji nr. 119/2014 \"Për të drejtën e informimit\"). The law regulates the right of access to information being produced or held by public sector. The rules contained in this law are designated to ensure the public access to information, in the framework of assuming the rights and freedoms of the individual in practice, as well as establishing views on the state and society situation.This law aims also at encouraging integrity, transparency and accountability of the public sector bodies. Every person shall, where deemed that the rights provided for in this law have been violated, be entitled to file a complaint administratively to the Information and Data Protection Commissioner's Office. http://idp.al/index.php/sq/\n\nThe Law on Freedom of Information was unanimously approved by the Parliament on 23 September 2003 and went into force in November 2003.\n\nIn Australia, the Freedom of Information Act 1982 was passed at the federal level in 1982, applying to all \"ministers, departments and public authorities\" of the Commonwealth.\n\nThere is similar legislation in all states and territories:\n\nIn Azerbaijan, a Law on Access to Information was approved in 2005. It has gone into effect. Previously in 1998 there was accepted Law on Freedom on Information, but the Law of 2005 provided more detailed and secured regulation for access to official information.\n\nOn October 21, 2008, the Caretaker Government of Bangladesh issued in the Bangladesh Gazette the Right to Information Ordinance (No. 50 of 2008), based loosely on the Indian Right to Information Act, 2005. The Ordinance was passed by the current government of Bangladesh in the first session of this parliament on March 29, 2009. The A2i programme is a part of the Vision 2021, a political manifesto of the Bangladesh Awami League party before winning the National Elections of 2008.\n\nArticle 32 of the Constitution was amended in 1993 to include a right of access to documents held by the government.\n\nIn Belize, the Freedom of Information Act was passed in 1998 was amended in 2000 and is currently in force, though a governmental commission noted that \"not much use has been made of the Act\".\n\nThe National Assembly of Bhutan passed an RTI Bill in February 2014. Its purpose is to curb corruption by providing the public with the right to access information.\n\nBosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) was the first country in the Balkan region to adopt a Freedom of Information Act. Freedom of Access to Information Act or FOIA - was adopted by the Parliament Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina on 17 November 2000. Both federal entities - the Republika Srpska and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina - passed freedom of information laws in 2001, the Freedom of Access to Information Act for the Republika Srpska and Freedom of Access to Information Act for the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina respectively.\n\nThe FOIA Act changed on the BiH state level two times. The first alteration was passed in 2006, enabling stronger legal protection within the framework of administrative law of BiH. The second alteration was passed in December 2009, which enforced legal penalties for prescribed violations.\n\nIn Brazil, the Article 5, XXXIII, of the Constitution sets that \"everyone shall have the right to receive information of his own interest or of public interest from public entities, which shall be given within the time prescribed by law\". Also, article 22 of the Federal law nº 8.159/1991 grants the right to \"full access to public documents\".\nA statute passed in 2011 and that will enter into force in 2012 (Federal Law 12.527/2011, promulgated on 28 November 2011) regulates the manner and the timetable for the information to be given by the State.\n\nIn Bulgaria, the Access to Public Information Act was passed in 2000, following a 1996 recommendation from the Constitutional Court to implement such a law.\n\nIn Canada, the Access to Information Act allows citizens to demand records from federal bodies. The act came into force in 1983, under the Pierre Trudeau government, permitting Canadians to retrieve information from government files, establishing what information could be accessed, mandating timelines for response. This is enforced by the Information Commissioner of Canada.\n\nThere is also a complementary Privacy Act that was introduced in 1983. The purpose of the \"Privacy Act\" is to extend the present laws of Canada that protect the privacy of individuals with respect to personal information about themselves held by a federal government institution and that provide individuals with a right of access to that information. It is a Crown copyright. Complaints for possible violations of the Act may be reported to the Privacy Commissioner of Canada.\n\nCanadian access to information laws distinguish between access to records generally and access to records that contain personal information about the person making the request. Subject to exceptions, individuals have a right of access to records that contain their own personal information under the \"Privacy Act\" but the general public does not have a right of access to records that contain personal information about others under the \"Access to Information Act\".\nEach province and territory in Canada has its own access to information legislation. In many cases, this is also the provincial public sector privacy legislation. For example:\n\nFrom 1989 to 2008, requests made to the federal government were catalogued in the Coordination of Access to Information Requests System.\n\nA 393-page report released in September 2008, sponsored by several Canadian newspaper groups, compares Canada's Access to Information Act to the FOI laws of the provinces and of 68 other nations.\n\nIn 2009, The Walrus (magazine) published a detailed history of FOI in Canada.\n\nThe Freedom of Information Law was passed in 2007 and was brought into force in January 2009.\n\nIn Chile, article 8 of the Constitution provides for the freedom of information. A law titled Law on Access to Public Information (\"Ley de Acceso a la Información Pública\") took effect on April 20, 2009.\n\nIn April 2007, the State Council of the People's Republic of China promulgated the \"Regulations of the People's Republic of China on Open Government Information\" (中华人民共和国政府信息公开条例), which came into effect on May 1, 2008.\n\nThe Colombian constitution grants the right of access to public information through \"Law 57 of 1985\" which thereby mandates the publishing of acts and official documents. This is implemented and applies to documents that belong to official facilities (offices or the like). Additionally there is the anti corruption statement of \"Law 190 of 1955\" also known as \"anti corruption act\" which in its 51st article mandates public offices to list in visible area all the contracts and purchases made by month. The latter taking place slowly. A more modern law, the \"Ley de transparencia y del derecho de acceso a la información pública nacional\" its at its final stages.\n\nArticle 23 of the constitution states that \"Every person has the right to present petitions to the authorities for the general or private interest and to secure their prompt resolution. The legislative body may regulate the presentation of petitions to private organisations in order to guarantee fundamental rights.\"\n\nThis article justifies the existence of a jurisdictional mechanism known a petition action. This action is regulated by the law 1755 of 2015 and is considered by the Colombian Judicial Doctrine as a fundamental human right. According to the law all petitions should be fully addressed in 15 business days. If not addressed the official in charge of resolving the petition may be charged with misconduct.\n\nAccess to official information is governed by the Official Information Act 2008. The law is based heavily on the New Zealand legislation.\n\nIn Croatia, the Zakon o pravu na pristup informacijama (\"Act on the Right of Access to Information\") of 2003 extends to all public authorities.\n\nThe right of access to information in Cyprus is guaranteed in constitutional provisions on freedom of expression. The No. 184(I)/2017 law on access to information in the southern part of the Republic of Cyprus of the country has been published on 22 December 2017. A law that falls below Council of Europe standards in the Northern occupied part of Cyprus. The right to access to public information is provided in different ways in the two parts of the island, in which Cyprus is de facto divided.\n\nAs to 2011, a research by the Open Cyprus Project showed that there was a level of 75% of administrative silence island-wide, in response to information requests. Over half of the respondents to this survey stated that, in practice, access to key documents is not possible.\n\nSince late 2013, a draft law on the Right to Access Public Information was being discussed in the Parliament of the Republic of Cyprus.\n\nOn 22 December 2017 the law has finally been approved (Law number 184(I)/2017 Law on the Right of Access to Information of the Public Sector).\n\nIn the Czech Republic, the Zákon č. 106/1999 Sb., o svobodném přístupu k informacím (\"Act No. 106/1999 Coll. on Free Access to Information\") covers the \"state agencies, territorial self-administration authorities and public institutions managing public funds\" as well as any body authorised by the law to reach legal decisions relating to the public sector, to the extent of such authorisation.\n\nAccess to Public Administration Files Act of 1985 is a Danish act passed by the Folketing concerning public access to governmental records. The Act came into force in 1987 and repealed the Public Records Act of 1970. New version of the Act came into force on 1 January 2014. Denmark is considered to be a historic pioneer in the field of FOI along with Sweden, Finland and Norway.\nThere is no constitutional basis in the Constitution of Denmark for the right of the public to information. Denmark scores 64 points in Global Right to Information Rating.\n\nAccording to the Act of 1985, Section 4 Part 1 “any person may ask to see documents received or issued by an administrative authority.” Information concerning administrative matters of the public administration; electricity and heating utilities as well as private bodies receiving public funding or performing public function can be acquired. Yet, the information concerning activities of judicial branch and legislators is not accessible.\n\nReasons do not have to be given while making a request; however, the authorities can ask for additional information regarding document. The requests are supposed to be handled as soon as possible; if within period of 10 days response to an application was not provided, the authority has to inform on reasons for the delay as well as expected date for a decision. More detailed procedures are not laid down in the Act.\n\nAccess to information is limited by “the obligation to maintain secrecy.” Considerations of State security, defence, foreign policy, external economic interests as well as public financial interests can limit the granting of access to the information.\nRegisters and records processed electronically are excluded from the administrative documents that can be given access to. Section 10 outlines other areas excluded from access, such as records of meetings of the Council of State, minutes, as well as documents prepared for such meetings; correspondence between ministries concerning legislation and material used for scientific research or public statistics.\n\nDecision to grant or not to grant access can be appealed. Decisions can also be appealed externally to Folketingets Ombudsman. Ombudsman can also deliver opinions and review decisions; however, these are not binding even though generally followed. Ombudsman receives 200-300 complaints annually; approximately 15 percent of complaints are ruled in favour of appellants.\n\nThe exemption regarding EU documents was taken out of the Act in 1991. Amendments were also made in 2000; they concerned data on the employees of the Government. In January 2014 new Public Records Act was enforced. The new act was highly debated since it was considered to limit transparency in the Government and legislative proceedings; Denmark received one point less in the category of Political Environment when compared with the Freedom of the Press report of 2015. The new legislation caused demonstrations and protests. It can be regarded as a response to the 9/11 terrorist attacks. After the Public Records Act of 2013 came into effect, public access to information regarding the Intelligence Services instead of falling under the Public Records Act is now managed by the Act on the Security and Intelligence Service as well as the Act on the Defense Intelligence Service. In addition, the access to legislative process was further restricted. According to the new Act documents in the drafting stage are not to be accessed as well as “other corresponding political activities,” so restriction is not concerning only Bills. In the future, it will not be possible to find the calendars of ministers being published. Nevertheless, the Act was created while keeping in mind the strengthening the project of the Open Government; the list of institutions covered by the Act was extended as well as list of public-private institutions and companies.\n\nHipólito Mejía approved Ley No.200-04 - Ley General de Libre Acceso a la Información Pública (\"Law number 200-04 - Law on Access to Information\") on 28 July 2004, which allows public access to information from the government and private organisations that receive public money to conduct state business. Rough drafts and projects that are not part of an administrative procedure are not included.\n\nIn Ecuador, the Transparency and Access to Information Law of 2004 declares that the right of access to information is guaranteed by the state.\n\nIn El Salvador, the Law on Access to Public Information was given assent by The Legislative Assembly of El Salvador on 3 March 2011.\n\nIn Estonia, the Public Information Act of 2000 extends to all \"holders of information\", which is clarified as being all government and local government bodies, legal persons in public law and legal persons in private law if they are performing public duties (providing health, education etc.).\n\nIn matters concerning the local, national and transboundary environment, the Aarhus convention grants the public rights regarding access to information, public participation and access to justice in governmental decision-making processes. It focuses on interactions between the public and public authorities.\n\nThe recognition of the right to access to public information under Article 10 (including \"freedom (..) to receive (..) information\") of the European Convention on Human Rights was one of subjects in \"Guerra v. Italy\" case before the European Court of Human Rights in 1998. The majority considered Article 10 was not applicable to the complaint. However, the court found that in the specific case, which included living near a high-risk factory, not providing information was in violation of Article 8 (respect to private and family life). Besides, two judges expressed a dissent on applicability of Article 10, and further six judges reserved a possibility, that in other circumstances, right to access to information could be protected by Article 10.\n\nThe Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has considered in 1996, that \"public access to clear and full information on this subject [Chernobyl disaster]—and many others for that matter—must be viewed as a basic human right\". In 2009, CoE Convention on Access to Official Documents was opened for signature.\n\nArticle 42 CFR and Article 15 TFEU give ″[a]ny citizen of the Union, and any natural or legal person residing or having its registered office in a Member State, [...] a right of access to documents of the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the Union, whatever their medium.\" It follows from Article 15 TFEU that this right is \"subject to the principles and the conditions to be defined\" in legislation.\n\nRegulation (EC) No 1049/2001 of the European Parliament and the Council of 30 May 2001 regarding public access to European Parliament, Council and Commission documents further defines this right of access to documents of the three institutions; for most other EU bodies and agencies, there is a provision in the legal act establishing them which makes Regulation No 1049/2001 applicable to them as well. In some other cases, specific rules apply (e.g. to the EESC, the CoR, the Court of Justice, the Court of Auditors and the ECB). \"Document\" is defined broadly and it is assumed that all documents, even if classified, may be subject to right of access unless it falls under one of the exceptions. If access is refused, the applicant is allowed a confirmatory request. A complaint against a refusal can be made with the European Ombudsman and/or an appeal can be brought before the European General Court.\n\nIn addition, Directive 2003/98/EC of the European Parliament and the Council of 17 November 2003 on the re-use of public sector information sets out the rules and practices for accessing public sector information resources for further exploitation. This directive has been reviewed in 2013 by Directive 2013/37/EU of the European Parliament and the Council of 26 June 2013 amending Directive 2003/98/EC on the re-use of public sector information\n\nSince 2008, the European Commission operates the Register of Interest representatives, a voluntary register of lobbyists at the European union.\n\nDirective 2003/4/EC of the European Parliament and Council provides for citizens of each country to have freedom of access to information on the environment, in line with the requirements of the Aarhus Convention. Governments are required to transcribe the directive into national legislation (for example, in the United Kingdom, the Environmental Information Regulations 2004).\n\nDirective 95/46/EC, the Data Protection directive, provides a variety of rights in relation to personal data, including a right of access. This has been transcribed into national legislation through, for example, the Data Protection Act 1998 (United Kingdom) and the Data Protection 2003 (Ireland).\n\nIn Finland, the Laki yleisten asiakirjain julkisuudesta 9.2.1951/83 (\"Act on the Openness of Public Documents\" of 1951) established the openness of all records and documents in the possession of officials of the state, municipalities, and registered religious communities. Exceptions to the basic principle could only be made by law, or by an executive order for specific enumerated reasons such as national security. The openness of unsigned draft documents was not mandated, but up to the consideration of the public official. This weakness of the law was removed when the law was revised in the 1990s. The revised law, the Laki viranomaisten toiminnan julkisuudesta 21.5.1999/621 (\"Act on the Openness of Government Activities\" of 1999), called in short \"Publicity Act\" () also extended the principle of openness to corporations that perform legally mandated public duties, such as pension funds and public utilities, and to computer documents.\n\nThe Publicity Act establishes a process by which any person may access any record in possession of an authority. The person may ask the authority for the document in person or in writing. When making the request, the requester needs to specify the document so that it can be identified. However, the authority is liable to assist the person with its document registers and indices in this task. After receiving the request, the authority has two weeks to give the document. If the decision is negative, and document is withheld, the requester may appeal to the administrative court. The document may be given orally, for reading and copying in the authority's premises or as an electronic or paper copy, as requested by the person. However, the copying may be declined if it would be unfeasible because of the large number of documents or otherwise technically difficult. There are also a number of limitations on the release of electronic documents designed for the protection of the individual privacy.\n\nThe reasons for withholding a document are listed in the article 24 of the Act. They may be grouped to three categories: automatic non-openness, conditional non openness or conditional openness. The documents where automatic non-openness is prescribed remain withheld in all cases. In the case of conditional non-openness, the reasonability of the non-openness is reviewed case-by-case by the authority and, if appeals are made, by the court. In the third category, openness is a rule, and the reason for non-openness needs to be established by the authority.\n\nThe absolute reasons for non-openness are (subpoint of Article 24 in captions)\n\nConditional non-openness is mandated for the following categories of documents, unless it is \"obviously clear\" that the protected interest is not endangered\n\nConditional openness is prescribed for the following categories of information:\n\nNon-open information remains non-open for 25 years after it was created or obtained by an authority. Documents that are non-open to protect the privacy of an individual remain non-open for 50 years after the protected individual has died.\n\nIf information is still, after 25 years, valid and describes a security measure of a building, facility, system or method or it is still part of a plan used for national defence or civil defence, it remains non-open as long as the information is pertinent for the purpose. The same indefinite non-openness applies to all documents under international security obligations, if the release might still affect Finnish foreign relations negatively. The non-openness of other documents may be prolonged up to 55 years by the Council of State, if necessary to safeguard a protected interest.\n\nIn France, the accountability of public servants is a constitutional right, according to the \"Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen\".\n\nThe implementing legislation is the Loi n°78-753 du 17 juillet 1978 portant diverses mesures d'amélioration des relations entre l'administration et le public et diverses dispositions d'ordre administratif, social et fiscal (\"Act No. 78-753 of 17 July 1978. On various measures for improved relations between the Civil Service and the public and on various arrangements of administrative, social and fiscal nature\"). It sets as a general rule that citizens can demand a copy of any administrative document (in paper, digitised or other form), and establishes the \"Commission d’Accès aux Documents Administratifs\", an independent administrative authority, to oversee the process.\n\nIn Georgia, the General Administrative Code contains a Law on Freedom of Information.\n\nIn Germany, the federal government passed a freedom of information law on September 5, 2005; it was last updated on August 7, 2013. The law grants each person an unconditional right to access official federal information. No legal, commercial, or any other kind of justification is necessary.\n\nTwelve of the sixteen Bundesländer—Baden-Württemberg, Berlin, Brandenburg, Bremen, Hamburg, Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Nordrhein-Westfalen, Rheinland-Pfalz, Saarland, Sachsen-Anhalt, Schleswig-Holstein and Thüringen—have approved individual \"Informationsfreiheitsgesetze\" (Freedom of Information laws).\n\nIn Greece, the 1975 Greek Constitution guaranteed the right of access to administrative documents and the right of citizens to obtain information. However it was not until 1986 that the first law was passed to provide for access to information.\n\nArticle 16 (Right to Access Administrative Documents—Δικαίωμα γνώσης διοικητικών εγγράφων) of Law 1599/1986 (State-citizenry Relationship—Σχέσεις Κράτους-πολίτη) introduced the right of all citizens to read most administrative documents. This right is now codified as article 5 (Access to documents—Πρόσβαση σε έγγραφα) of the Administrative Procedural Code (Κώδικας Διοικητικής Διαδικασίας), Law 2690/1999. Under this article, citizens have a right to know the content of administrative documents. Administrative documents are defined as those produced by public sector entities, such as reports, studies, minutes, statistical data, circulars, instructions, responses, consultatory responses, and decisions. In addition, citizens with a legitimate interest may also access \"private\" documents stored by public services. The right cannot be exercised if the document concerns the private or family lives of others, or if the document's confidentiality is safeguarded by specific legal provisions. Furthermore, the public body can refuse access if the document refers to discussions in the Cabinet, or if accessing the document can seriously hamper criminal or administrative violation investigations carried out by judicial, police, or military authorities.\n\nCitizens may study the documents at the place where they are archived, or they may obtain a copy at their own cost. Access to one's own medical data is provided with the help of a doctor. Access to documents should take into account whether they be covered by copyright, patent, or trade secret regulations.\n\nIn addition, Law 3448/2006, on the reuse of public sector information, harmonises the national laws with the requirements on the European Union Directive 2003/98/EC.\n\nIn Hong Kong there are no laws specifically enacted to guarantee the freedom of information.\n\nSince March 1995, the Government of Hong Kong has promulgated a \"Code on Access to Information\" to serve a similar purpose. This code, like other internal regulations of the Government, was not legislated by the Legislative Council and has a minimal legal status. It requires government agencies listed in its appendix to appoint Access to Information Officers to answer citizens' requests for governmental records. A fee may be charged prior to the release of information. The code does not require the government to archive information.\n\nIn Hungary, the Act on the Protection of Personal Data and Public Access to Data of Public Interest of 1992 extends a right of access to all data of public interest, defined as any information processed by a body performing a governmental function. Complaints and contested applications may be appealed to the Data Protection Commissioner or to the court.\n\nIn 2005 the Parliament adopted the Act on the Freedom of Information by Electronic Means (Act XC of 2005). The Act has three basic parts: 1. electronic disclousure of certain data by public sector bodies, 2. publicity of legislation and 3. openness of Court decisions.\n\nIn Iceland the Information Act (Upplysingalög) Act no. 50/1996 gives access to public information.\n\nThe Right to Information Act (RTI Act) was passed by Parliament on 11 May 2005 and was published in the gazette of India on 15 June 2005. It came into effect on 12 October 2005 replacing the erstwhile Freedom of information Act, 2002. The Supreme Court of India had, in several Judgments prior to enactment of both Acts, interpreted Indian Constitution to read Right to Information as the Fundamental Right as embodied in Right to Freedom of Speech and Expression and also in Right to Life. RTI Act laid down a procedure to guarantee this right. Under this law all Government Bodies or Government funded agencies have to designate a Public Information Officer (PIO). The PIO's responsibility is to ensure that information requested is disclosed to the petitioner within 30 days or within 48 hours in case of information concerning the life or liberty of a person. The law was inspired by previous legislation from select states (among them Tamil Nadu (1997), Goa (1997), Rajasthan (2000), Karnataka (2000), Delhi (2001), Maharashtra (2002) etc.) that allowed the right to information (to different degrees) to citizens about activities of any State Government body.\n\nA number of high-profile disclosures revealed corruption in various government schemes such scams in Public Distribution Systems (ration stores), disaster relief, construction of highways etc. The law itself has been hailed as a landmark in India's drive towards more openness and accountability.\n\nHowever the RTI India has certain weaknesses that hamper implementation.\n\nRTI NEWS\n\nOn International Right to Information Day 1000 Copies of The RTI Act Sent by Mr. Naveen Agrawal in India\n\nNagpur (Dt.28/10/2018). 28 September is observed as International Right to Information Day across the world. Mr. Naveen Maheshkumar Agrawal, Registrar, Dada Ramchand Bakhru Sindhu Mahavidyalaya, with a view to creating awareness about the Right to Information Act, 2005 in society sent the soft copies of the RTI Act to 1000 people on International Right to Information Day. It was indeed a novel way on his part to spread awareness about the Act. The copies of the Act were sent in English, Hindi and Marathi languages. Introducing transparency in the government work is the main purpose of this Act. But even to the lack of awareness in information seeker and information provider, the effective implementation of the said act is badly affected. In 2017 also Mr. Naveen Agrawal had sent 101 applications under RTI Act 2005 to different public authorities seeking information on different issues on International Day of Right to Information with the purpose of creating awareness about the Act.\n\nThe Law on Dissemination of and Free Access to Information was approved by Iranian Parliament in 2008. Its English and Arabic renditions were officially released as part of the government's efforts to promote Freedom of Information (FOI) in October 2018.\n\nIn Ireland the Freedom of Information Act 1997 came into effect in April, 1998. This provided for members of the public to access information specifically about themselves, amend incorrect information, and request an explanation behind administrative decisions concerning themselves, as well as allowing any person to access records generated by a list of specified public bodies. The Act is seen as having led to a sea-change in the relationship between the citizen, journalists, government departments and public bodies. Disclosure is the default assumption of the Act; bodies can withhold information only by citing exemptions specified in the legislation. Decisions of public bodies in relation to requests for information may be reviewed by the Information Commissioner.\n\nThe Act was subsequently amended by the Freedom of Information (Amendment) Act 2003. The amendments introduced fees for non-personal requests and restricted the kinds of material which could be accessed.\n\nOn 14 October 2014, the Freedom of Information Act 2014 repealed the 1997 and 2003 Acts, removing most of the restrictions introduced in 2003 and widened the range of bodies covered to all public bodies, unless specifically exempt. It also allowed for the Government to prescribe (or designate) other bodies receiving significant public funds, so that the FOI legislation applies to them also.\n\nOne particular controversy which has caused concern to journalists and historians is that traditionally government ministers would annotate and sign any major policy or report documents which they had seen. However this practice has fallen out of favour because of the new openness. This annotation and signing of documents has often given a paper trail and unique insight as to \"what the minister knew\" about a controversy or how he or she formed an opinion on a matter. Also civil and public servants have become more informal, in keeping written records of potentially controversial meeting and avoiding writing memos as a result. While this information would not often be released, and sometimes only under the thirty year rule, the fact that government ministers now do not annotate and sign documents creates the concerns that while government is open it is not accountable as to who did or saw what or how decision making process works.\n\nIn Israel, the Freedom of Information Law, 5758-1998, supported by the Freedom of Information Regulations, 5759-1999, controls freedom of information. It defines the bodies subject to the legislation by a set of listed categories - essentially, most public bodies - and provides for the government to publish a list of all affected bodies. However, this list does not seem to have been made publicly available, if indeed it was ever compiled. Many public bodies are not obliged to follow the law, which limits the potential for use by the public.\n\nThe Israeli Freedom of Information Law has, in some cases, actually achieved the opposite intended result. some Government agencies now take the position that a citizen may only request information via FOIL—i.e., an official letter designated as such and including the 95 shekel fee. Thus an Israeli citizen in many cases cannot simply write a letter asking a question, and can be asked to file a FOIL application with a fee and wait the minimum statutory 30 days for a reply, which the agency can extend to 60 days. In many cases FOIL letters are simply ignored, or some laconic response is sent stating the request is either unclear, unspecific, too vague or some other legalese, anything in order to keep the information away from the public. When the 60 days are up, if the anticipated result usually yield nothing significant, the applicant must petition the District Court to compel disclosure, a procedure that requires attorneys to draft pleadings and a payment of (approximately) $420 court fee. A judgement in such FOIL appeals in Israel can take many months, and again the agency can easily avoid disclosure by simply not complying, although risking being charged with contempt of court. While there are some successes in courts compelling Israeli government agencies to disclose information, they are usually in non-controversial areas. The law provides for the expected \"security\" exemption and an applicant applying for such information can expect not to benefit from FOIL (and also have his or her court appeal rejected). it will be noted that Applicants can sometimes be helped by The Movement for Freedom of Information.\n\nChapter V of Law No. 241 of 7 August 1990 provides for access to administrative documents. However, the right to access is limited. The law states that those requesting information must have a legal interest. The 1992 regulations require \"a personal concrete interest to safeguard in legally relevant situations.\" The courts have ruled that this includes the right of environmental groups and local councilors to demand information on behalf of those they represent. It was amended in 2005. The revision appears to adopt the court rulings and relax the interest somewhat to allow access when an individual can show they represent a more general public interest.\n\nIn Jamaica, the relevant legislation is the Access to Information Act, 2002.\n\nIn Japan, the \"Law Concerning Access to Information Held by Administrative Organs\" (行政機関の保有する情報の公開に関する法律) was promulgated in 1999. The law was enforced in 2001.\n\nIn many local governments, it establishes the regulations about information disclosure (情報公開条例) from the latter half of the 1980s.\n\nThe Constitution of Latvia states: \"Article 100. Everyone has the right to freedom of expression, which includes the right to freely receive, keep and distribute information and to express his or her views. Censorship is prohibited.\" The right to access state held information has been repeatedly recognised by the Constitutional Court of Latvia, most notably in its judgment \"On Conformity of the Cabinet of Ministers 21 January 1997 Regulations No.46 \"On Government Agreements\" with the 20 November 1998 \"Information Accessibility Law\"\n\nThe Law on Freedom of Information was signed into law by the State President in November 1998 and has been amended a number of times recently. Any person can ask for information in \"any technically feasible form\" without having to show a reason. The request can be oral or written. Bodies must respond in 15 days.\n\nOn the 1st of September 2012, Legal Notice 156 of 2012 brought the Freedom of Information Act (Chapter 496 of the Laws of Malta) fully into force, allowing the public (resident citizens of Malta, the EU and the EEA) to submit requests for documents/information held by the Government. FOI requests are submitted free of charge but processing of documents by public authorities may require the public to pay fees which never exceed Eur 40. When access to documents is refused, the FOIA in Malta provides for a complaint and appeal mechanism that can be ultimately resolved through the Courts of Appeal.\n\nPresident Ellen Johnson Sirleaf signed the Freedom of Information Act of 2010 into law in October 2010. Liberia became only the fourth country in Africa, and the first in West Africa, to pass such legislation. The law allows both the media and individual citizens to demand information from any public authority or any private authority that carries out government functions.\n\nArticle 16 of the Constitution of Macedonia guarantees \"access to information and the freedom of reception and transmission of information\".\n\nThe Law on Free Access to Information of Public Character was adopted on 25 January 2006. It is scheduled to go into force in September 2006.The law allows any natural or legal person to obtain information from state and municipal bodies and natural and legal persons who are performing public functions. The requests can be oral, written or electronic. Requests must be responded to in 10 days.\n\nThe state of Selangor passed the Freedom of Information Enactment (Selangor) 2010 on 1 April 2011, allowing the Malaysian public an access to the state documents including that of local councils, city halls and state government-linked companies. Subsequently, the state of Penang passed the Freedom of Information bill on 4 November 2011, allowing the public to access to state documents. Both states are under the ruling of the federal opposition Pakatan Rakyat.\n\nThe Maldives passed the Right to Information Act (RTI) on January 12, 2014.\n\nThe Constitution was amended in 1977 to include a right of freedom of information. Article 6 says in part, \"the right of information shall be guaranteed by the state.\" The Supreme Court made a number of decisions further enhancing that right.\n\nThe Federal Law of Transparency and Access to Public Government Information was unanimously approved by Congress in April 2002 and signed by President Fox in June 2002. It went into effect in June 2003.\n\nA freedom of information law was passed in Montenegro late in 2005, after a process of several years.\n\nArticle 110 of the Constitution states: \"In the exercise of their duties government bodies shall observe the principle of transparency in accordance with the rules to be prescribed by Act of Parliament.\"\n\nThe Dutch act on public access to government information entered into force in 1980 and is updated several times later. Under the act known as the \"\", or \"Wob\" for short, any person can demand information (called \"wobbing\") related to an administrative matter if it is contained in documents held by public authorities or companies carrying out work for a public authority. The request can either be written or oral. The authority has two (on environmental issues) or four weeks to respond. The act also obliges the government to provide information \"unsolicited\" as it is in the interest of good and democratic governance.\n\nIn New Zealand, the relevant legislation is the Official Information Act 1982. This implemented a general policy of openness regarding official documents and replaced the Official Secrets Act.\n\nFormer President Goodluck Jonathan signed into law the Freedom of Information (FoI) Bill, awaited for 12 years by media proprietors and practitioners alike, during which the Villa got knocks for filibustering and lawmakers complained of bombardment by campaigners.\n\nThe House of Representatives passed the Bill on February 24, 2011 and the Senate dialled up integrity on March 16 as it delivered on promise to pass it.\n\nThe harmonised version was passed by both Chambers on May 26, 2011.It was conveyed to Jonathan on May 27, and he signed it on May 28, 2011, according to a statement Aso Rock issued on Tuesday.\n\nTwo states in Nigeria (namely Ekiti and Lagos State) have adopted the Freedom of Information Act at State level but they have extended the response date at State level from 7 days to 14 days. More states are expected to adopt the bill and come up with their own version.\n\nThe current freedom of information legislation was enacted May 19. 2006, and superseded the previous law of 1970 by January 1, 2009. Article 100 of the Constitution gives access to public documents. The basic principle of the law is everyone has the right to access to State and municipal documents and to be present at sittings of courts and elected assemblies.\n\nPresident Pervez Musharraf promulgated the Freedom of Information Ordinance 2002 in October 2002. The law allows any citizen access to public records held by a public body of the federal government including ministries, departments, boards, councils, courts and tribunals. It does not apply to government owned corporations or provincial governments. The bodies must respond within 21 days.\n\nMore recently, by virtue of the 18th Amendment of 2010, article 19A has been inserted in the Constitution of Pakistan. It gives the right to access to information the status of a fundamental constitutional right. Article 19A \"Right to Information\" reads: \"Every citizen shall have the right to have access to information in all matters of public importance subject to regulation and reasonable restrictions imposed by law\".\n\nThe National Constitution of Paraguay enacted in 1992, guarantees the right to be informed and to receive true, responsible, and equitable information (Art. 28). The same article states that public sources of information are free, and that a law will regulate the modalities, time periods, and sanctions “in order to make this right effective”. In practice, this last provision delayed the recognition of the right due to the absence of a law making it “effective”. Congress, government agencies and Courts were reluctant to enforce the right to access public sources of information until 2013. A Supreme Court judgment (No. 1306 of 15 October 2013), marked the beginning of what has been called a “Transparency Spring”.\n\nThe ruling from the Supreme Court was made in the context of an Amparo filed by a citizen called Jose Daniel Vargas Tellez, after the San Lorenzo Municipality denied him access to the information about the names, the job descriptions and the wages of all the employees that were working in that public office. The Court of First Instance and the Court of Appeals rejected the Amparo on the grounds that information of that type was considered sensitive by the Data Protection and Privacy Act (Law 1682/02 and 1969/02). The latter rulings were challenged on constitutional grounds and the Supreme Court ruled in favor of Vargas Tellez holding that while this information relating to the identity and wages of public employees and officers constitutes personal propriety data, it is nonetheless registered in a “public source of information”, which makes it available to any citizen who requests it. The right to access to these informations is recognised under the Constitution and international instruments such as the American Convention on Human Rights (Art. 13); The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (Art. 19); and the United Nations Convention against Corruption (Art. 13).\n\nFollowing the Supreme Court's decision, and with the support of the civil society and President Horacio Cartes, the first Transparency law was enacted (Law No. 5189/14) requiring all public offices to disclose information regarding the use of public funds to pay salaries. In addition, The Freedom of Information and Government Transparency Law (Law 5282/2014) was enacted in 2014 and a final regulation of 2015 (Executive Decree 4064/15) set the final step in the road to Transparency. These rules expressly recognize that the right to access public information is a human right, which improves the State, promotes citizen participation and public accountability, and serves as a tool to combat corruption. Currently, all requests to access public information can be done online through a single portal, and government offices are obliged to respond within 15 days.\n\nParaguay became internationally committed to promote transparency, empower citizens, fight corruption, and harness new technologies to strengthen governance after becoming a member of the Open Government Partnership. Presently, most government offices have Transparency offices and can provide information to citizens and receive reports of corruption. The main Executive agency in charge of promoting Electronic Government is the SENATICS.\n\nRectification, Clarification and Destruction of False or Distorted information:\n\nArt 28 of the Constitution also states that any person affected by the diffusion of a false, distorted, or ambiguous information has the right to demand its rectification or its clarification by the same means and under the same conditions in which it was divulged, without prejudice to the other compensatory rights. There is also a specific law that regulates Habeas Data, and any citizen can request a copy of publicly or privately held information relating to him, and can demand that any inaccurate data found be destroyed.\n\nOn July 23, 2016, Philippine president Rodrigo Duterte signed the executive order on freedom of information to be implemented effectively in all offices under the executive branch of government.\n\nSection 13(4) of the Constitution of the Pitcairn Islands provides that \"Freedom of information in Pitcairn shall be provided by Ordinance, which shall reflect the freedom of information legislation of the United Kingdom adapted to the circumstances of Pitcairn\".\n\nThe \"Freedom of Information Ordinance 2012\" implements this requirement.\n\nArticle 61 of the Constitution provides for the right to information and mandates that Parliament enact a law setting out this right.\n\nThe Law on Access to Public Information was approved in September 2001 and went into effect in January 2002. The Act allows anyone to demand access to public information, public data and public assets held by public bodies, private bodies that exercise public tasks, trade unions and political parties. The requests can be oral or written. The bodies must respond within 14 days.\n\nArticle 34 of the Constitution provides for a right of access to information.\n\nThe Law of the Republic of Moldova on Access to Information was approved by Parliament in May 2000 and went into force in August 2000. Under the law, citizens and residents of Moldova can demand information from state institutions, organisations financed by the public budget and individuals and legal entities that provide public services and hold official information.\n\nSince 2001 there is one law on Freedom of Information and one on transparent decision making processes in public\nadministration (a sunshine law).\n\nThe law Relating to Access to Information was passed on the 08/02/2013. It puts forth the purpose of the law, recognises the right to access to information, the procedures for accessing information, and compliance related issues.available at http://www.humanrightsinitiative.org/postoftheday/2013/18/Rwanda_ATI_Law_March2013_NewDelhi_SatbirS.pdf\n\nIn Serbia, the Access to Public Information Act gives access to documents of public authorities.\n\nSlovakia passed the Freedom of Information Act in May 2000 (Num. law: 211/2000 Z. z.). Under the law, everybody can demand information from state institutions, organisations, from municipalities, individuals and legal entities financed by the public budget.\n\nSlovenia passed the Access to Public Information Act in March 2003. The Act governs the procedure which ensures everyone free access to public information held by state bodies, local government bodies, public agencies, public funds and other entities of public law, public powers holders and public service contractors.\n\nSection 32 of the Constitution of South Africa guarantees \"the right of access to any information held by the state; and any information that is held by another person and that is required for the exercise or protection of any rights.\" This right is implemented through the Promotion of Access to Information Act, which was enacted on 2 February 2000. The right of access to \"privately\" held information is an interesting feature, as most freedom of information laws only cover governmental bodies.\n\nThe Constitutional Court ruled in 1989 that there is a constitutional right to information \"as an aspect of the right of freedom of expression and specific implementing legislation to define the contours of the right was not a prerequisite to its enforcement.\"\n\nThe Act on Disclosure of Information by Public Agencies was enacted in 1996 and went into effect in January 1998. It allows citizens to demand information held by public agencies.\n\nSri Lanka's Right to Information Act No 12 of 2016 was certified on 4 August 2016. After much debate and many amendments to the draft Bill, the final Act comprising 44 Sections was certified in early August 2016. The implementation of the Act is expected to take time due to the necessity of establishing cadre positions in government institutions to provide information to the general public. The Act is considered to hold many strengths and positive features that would effectively authorize citizens to be actively involved in the process of governance. Moreover, Article 14A(1) introduced by virtue of 19th Amendment to the 1978 Constitution of Sri Lanka has paved the way for the recognition of right to information as a fundamental right.\n\nIn Sweden, the Freedom of the Press Act grants public access to official documents and is included in the Constitution of Sweden. Dating back to 1766, it is the first freedom of information legislation in the modern sense. In modern times the right has become known as the Principle of Public Access (Swedish: \"offentlighetsprincipen\").\n\nThe Principle of Public Access means that the general public is guaranteed insight into activities pursued by government agencies. All official documents handled by government agencies are public unless they contain information specified as secret under the Public Access to Information and Secrecy Act. Each request to take part of official documents is handled individually and classifying documents or information as secret is subject to appeal. The constitution also grants the right for government employees to pass on information without risk of criminal charges or repercussions and the right to attend court proceedings and meetings of legislative assemblies like the Riksdag.\n\nSwitzerland is a federal state. Access to federal documents is governed by the Swiss Federal Act on the Principle of Freedom of Information in Public Administration, and supervised by the Federal Data Protection and Information Commissioner. Access to documents at the cantonal level is governed by cantonal laws, which are mostly similar to the federal law.\nAs of 2018, the cantons of Appenzell Innerrhoden, Glarus, Lucerne, Nidwalden, Obwalden and Thurgau do not have freedom of information legislation.\n\nThe \"Freedom of Government Information Law\" (政府資訊公開法), enacted by the Legislative Yuan of the ROC government in Taiwan, has been in force since 28 December 2005.\n\nTanzania's Access to Information Act was passed in 2016.\n\nIn Thailand, the relevant legislation is the Official Information Act of 1997.\n\nIn Trinidad and Tobago, the relevant legislation is the Freedom of Information Act, 1999.\n\nIn Turkey, the Turkish Law on the Right to Information (Bilgi Edinme Hakkı Kanunu) was signed on October 24, 2003 and it came into effect 6 months later on April 24, 2004.\n\nIn Uganda, the Access to Information Act (ATI) was approved in 2005 but its regulations were not passed until 2011. The laws states that citizen and especially journalists can demand accountability from a government official. The Hub for Investigative Media (HIM) in Uganda offers training programs that teaches East-African journalists in matters of fact-checking and digital security. HIM also has made government officials are of the ATI law and its provision. They have also conducted a nationwide campaign to train journalists on the knowledge and application of the ATI laws as right holders.\n\nThe 1996 Constitution does not include a specific general right of access to information but contains a general right of freedom of collect and disseminate information and rights of access to personal and environmental information.\n\nThe Art. 5 of The Law on Information of 1992 (revised in 2011) provides the term «right for information» which includes the possibility of free collection, usage, distribution, storage and protection of information necessary for the exercise of person's rights, freedoms and legitimate interests.\n\nLaw on Access to Public Information was adopted 13 January 2011 and go into force from 9 May 2011. It widens the range of subjects, obliged to provide information, gives legislative definition of public information and makes public information accessible with statutory restrictions.\n\nThe Freedom of Information Act 2000 (2000 c. 36) is the implementation of freedom of information legislation in the United Kingdom on a national level, with the exception of Scottish bodies, which are covered by the Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act 2002 (2002 asp. 13). Environmental information is covered by further legislation Environmental Information Regulations 2004. Tony Blair, the UK Prime Minister who introduced the Freedom of Information Act, later expressed regret over the Act, claiming that the Act impeded the ability of officials to deliberate \"with a reasonable level of confidentiality\".\n\nIn the United States the Freedom of Information Act was signed into law by President Lyndon B. Johnson on July 4, 1966 and went into effect the following year. Ralph Nader has been credited with the impetus for creating this act, among others. The Electronic Freedom of Information Act Amendments were signed by President Bill Clinton on October 2, 1996.\n\nThe Act applies only to federal agencies. However, all of the states, as well as the District of Columbia and some territories, have enacted similar statutes to require disclosures by agencies of the state and of local governments, though some are significantly broader than others. Some state and local government agencies attempt to get around state open records laws by claiming copyright for their works and then demanding high fees to license the public information. Some states expand government transparency through open meeting laws, which require government meetings to be announced in advance and held publicly.\n\nThe Act was enacted in 2008 under President Vazquez's Administration and is mainly implemented by the Judiciary.\n\nIn Zimbabwe, the Access to Information and Privacy Act (AIPPA) was signed by their President Robert Mugabe in February 2002.\n\n\n(Unless stated otherwise, information is current as of July 2008).\n\n\nPeople\n\nInternational:\n\nEurope:\n\nBrazil:\n\nIndia:\n\nTurkey:\n\nUnited States:\n\nNepal\n\nOpen Meetings:\nSouth Korea:\n"}
{"id": "28353118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28353118", "title": "French labour law", "text": "French labour law\n\nFrench labour law is the system of labour law operating in France.\n\nDuring the French Revolution, the \"Le Chapelier Law 1791\" was passed to prohibit unions or guilds and strikes in particular, with a proclamation of \"free enterprise\". On 25 May 1864, the \"loi Ollivier\" was passed to reverse the prohibitions on strike action.\n\nThe prohibitions on forming trade unions were lifted by Waldeck Rousseau's laws passed on 21 March 1884.\n\nBetween 1936 and 1938 the Popular Front enacted a law mandating 12 days (2 weeks) each year of paid vacation for workers, and the Matignon Accords (1936). This established the right to organise a union, to bargain collectively, a legal right to strike, and was followed by enactments which limited the work week to 40 hours, excluding overtime, and guaranteed paid holidays.\n\nThe Grenelle agreements negotiated on May 25 and 26th in the middle of the May 1968 crisis, reduced the working week to 44 hours and created trade union sections in each enterprise. The minimum wage was also increased by 25%.\n\nIn 2000 Lionel Jospin's government then enacted the 35-hour workweek, down from 39 hours. Five years later, conservative prime minister Dominique de Villepin enacted the New Employment Contract (CNE). Addressing the demands of employers asking for more flexibility in French labour laws, the CNE sparked criticism from trade unions and opponents claiming it was lending favour to contingent work. In 2006 he then attempted to pass the First Employment Contract (CPE) through a vote by emergency procedure, but that it was met by students and unions' protests. President Jacques Chirac finally had no choice but to repeal it.\n\nThe \"right to disconnect\" law came into force in January 2017, which means that companies with more than 50 workers will be obliged to draw up a charter of good conduct. This charter sets out the hours in which staff are not supposed to send or answer emails. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3938470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3938470", "title": "History of international law", "text": "History of international law\n\nThe history of international law examines the evolution and development of public international law in both state practice and conceptual understanding. Modern international law developed out of Renaissance Europe and is strongly entwined with the development of western political organisation at that time. The development of European notions of sovereignty and nation states would necessitate the development of methods for interstate relations and standards of behaviour, and these would lay the foundations of what would become international law. However, while the origins of the modern system of international law can be traced back 400 years, the development of the concepts and practises that would underpin that system can be traced back to ancient historical politics and relationships thousands of years old. Important concepts are derived from the practice between Greek city-states and the Roman law concept of ius gentium (which regulated contacts between Roman citizens and non-Roman people). These principles were not universal however. In East Asia, political theory was based not on the equality of states, but rather the cosmological supremacy of the Emperor of China.\n\nBasic concepts of international law such as treaties can be traced back thousands of years. Early examples of treaties include around 2100BC an agreement between the rulers of the city-states of Lagash and Umma in Mesopotamia, inscribed on a stone block, setting a prescribed boundary between their two states. Around 1000BC, an agreement was signed between Ramses II of Egypt and the king of the Hittites establishing \"eternal peace and brotherhood\" between their two nations: dealing with respect for each other’s territory and establishing a form of defensive alliance.\nThe ancient Greeks before Alexander the Great formed many small states that constantly interacted. In peace and in war, an inter-state culture evolved that prescribed certain rules for how these states would interact. These rules did not apply to interactions with non-Greek states, but among themselves the Greek inter-state community resembled in some respects the modern international community.\n\nThe Roman Empire did not develop an international law, as it acted without regard to any external rules in its dealings with those territories that were not already part of the empire. The Romans did, however, form municipal laws governing the interactions between private Roman citizens and foreigners. These laws, called the \"jus gentium\" (as opposed to the \"jus civile\" governing interactions between citizens) codified some ideas of basic fairness, and attributed some rules to an objective, independent \"natural law.\" These \"jus gentium\" ideas of fairness and natural law have survived and are reflected in modern international law.\n\nAfter the fall of the Roman Empire and the collapse of the Holy Roman Empire into independent cities, principalities, kingdoms and nations, for the first time there was a real need for rules of conduct between a large international community. Without an empire or a dominant religious leadership to moderate and direct international dealings, most of Europe looked to Justinian's code of law from the Roman Empire, and the canon law of the Catholic Church for inspiration.\n\nInternational trade was the real catalyst for the development of objective rules of behaviour between states. Without a code of conduct, there was little to guarantee trade or protect the merchants of one state from the actions of another. Economic self-interest drove the evolution of common international trade rules, and most importantly the rules and customs of maritime law.\n\nAs international trade, exploration and warfare became more involved and complex, the need for common international customs and practices became even more important. The Hanseatic League of the more than 150 entities in what is now Germany, Scandinavia, and the Baltic states developed many useful international customs, which facilitated trade and communication among other things. The Italian city-states developed diplomatic rules, as they began sending ambassadors to foreign capitals. Treaties—agreements between governments intended to be binding—became a useful tool to protect commerce. The horrors of the Thirty Years' War, meanwhile, created an outcry for rules of combat that would protect civilian communities.\n\nInternational practices, customs, rules and treaties proliferated to the point of complexity. Several scholars sought to compile them all into organized treatises. The most important of these was Hugo Grotius, whose treatise \"De Jure Belli Ac Pacis Libri Tres\" is considered the starting point for modern international law. Before Hugo Grotius, most European thinkers treated law as something independent of mankind, with its own existence. Some laws were invented by men, but ultimately they reflected the essential natural law. Grotius was no different, except in one important respect: Unlike the earlier thinkers, who believed that the natural law was imposed by a deity, Grotius believed that the natural law came from an essential universal reason, common to all men.\n\nThis rationalist perspective enabled Grotius to posit several rational principles underlying law. Law was not imposed from above, but rather derived from principles. Foundation principles included the axioms that promises must be kept, and that harming another requires restitution. These two principles have served as the basis for much of subsequent international law. Apart from natural-law principles, Grotius also dealt with international custom, or voluntary law. Grotius emphasized the importance of actual practices, customs and treaties—what \"is\" done—as opposed to normative rules of what \"ought to be\" done. This positivist approach to international law strengthened over time. As nations became the predominant form of state in Europe, and their man-made laws became more important than religious doctrines and philosophies, the law of what \"is\" similarly became more important than the law of what \"ought to be.\"\n\nThe Westphalian treaties of 1648 were a turning point in establishing the principle of state sovereignty as a cornerstone of the international order. However the first attempts at formulating autonomous theories of international law occurred before this, in Spain, in the 16th century. Most prominent among the early theorizers were the Roman Catholic theologians Francisco de Vitoria and Francisco Suárez. Suárez is especially notable in this regard in that he distinguished between ius inter gentes and ius intra gentes which he derived from ius gentium (the rights of peoples). Ius inter gentes corresponds to modern international law. In 1625, Hugo Grotius followed with the first systematic treatise on international law, \"de iure belli ac pacis\", which dealt with the laws of war and peace. One important aspect of Grotius's treatment of international law is that he no longer bases it exclusively upon natural law, but also accepts that states among themselves can also create binding rules of law (ius voluntarium).\n\nStill, in the 17th and 18th centuries, the idea of natural law as a basis for international law remained influential, and were further expressed in the works of Samuel von Pufendorf and Christian Wolff. Yet, in the second half of the 18th century, a shift occurs towards positivism in international law. In addition, the idea of international law as a means for maintaining international peace is challenged due to the increasing tensions between the European great powers (France, Prussia, Great-Britain, Russia and Austria). This tension between legal norms and political imperatives is well reflected in the century's most important treatise on international law, Emer de Vattel's \"Du Droit des Gens\" (1758). At the end of the century, Immanuel Kant believes that international law as a law that can justify war does not serve the purpose of peace anymore, and therefore argues in \"\" (\"Zum Ewigen Frieden\", 1795) and the \"Metaphysics of Morals\" (\"Metaphysik der Sitten\", 1797) for creating a new kind of international law.\n\nAfter World War I, an attempt was made to establish such a new international law of peace, of which the League of Nations was considered to be one of the cornerstones, but this attempt failed. The Charter of the United Nations (1945) in fact reflects the fact that the traditional notion of state sovereignty remains the key concept in the law of nations.\n\nIn the historiography of international law, some German authors, most notably among them Wilhelm Grewe and Karl-Heinz Ziegler, have argued that several periods can be distinguished, such as the Spanish era (1494–1648), the French era (1648-1789/1815), the English era (1789/1815-1919) and the American era since 1919. The transitions between these eras are often marked by grand peace settlements, such as the earlier mentioned treaties of Westphalia (1645–48), the treaties of Ryswick and Utrecht (1697/1714), Vienna (1814–15), Paris (1919) and San Francisco (the UN Charter, 1945).\n\nFollowing World War I, as after the Thirty Years' War, there was an outcry for rules of warfare to protect civilian populations, as well as a desire to curb invasions. The League of Nations, established after the war, attempted to curb invasions by enacting a treaty agreement providing for economic and military sanctions against member states that used \"external aggression\" to invade or conquer other member states. An international court was established, the Permanent Court of International Justice, to arbitrate disputes between nations without resorting to war. Meanwhile, many nations signed treaties agreeing to use international arbitration rather than warfare to settle differences. International crises, however, demonstrated that nations were not yet committed to the idea of giving external authorities a say in how nations conducted their affairs. Aggression on the part of Germany, Italy and Japan went unchecked by international law, and it took a Second World War to end it.\n\nAfter World War II, as after the First World War and the Thirty Years' War, there was a strong desire to never again endure the horrors of war endured by the civilian populations. The League of Nations was re-attempted through another treaty organization, the United Nations.\n\nThe postwar era has been a highly successful one for international law. International cooperation has become far more commonplace, though of course not universal. Importantly, nearly two hundred nations are now members of the United Nations, and have voluntarily bound themselves to its charter. Even the most powerful nations have recognized the need for international cooperation and supports, and have routinely sought international agreement and consent before engaging in acts of war.\n\nInternational law is, of course, only partly about the conduct of war. Most rules are civil, concerning the delivery of mail, trade, shipping, air travel, and the like. Most rules are obeyed routinely by most countries, because the rules make life easier for all concerned. The rules are rarely disputed. But some international law is extremely political and hotly debated. This includes not just the laws of warfare but also such matters as fishing rights.\n\nAn important development in modern international law is the concept of \"consent.\" Before World War II, a nation would not have been considered to be bound by a rule unless it had formally agreed to be bound by it, or it was already customarily abiding by that rule. Now, however, merely consenting to an international practice is sufficient to be bound by it, without signing a treaty.\n\nAn evolution of the positivist approach of Grotius, the concept of consent is an element of customary international law. Customary international law is essentially what states actually do, plus the \"opinio juris\" of what states believe international law requires them to do.\n\nCustomary international law applies to every country, regardless of whether they have formally agreed to it. At the same time, all countries take part in forming customary international law by their practices and decisions. As new rules arise, countries accept, reject or modify them. When most countries are following a rule, everyone else will be held to it. Therefore, doing nothing is the same as consenting. Nations that did not take action may find themselves bound by an international law that is not to their advantage.\n\nCustomary international law can be overruled, however, by a treaty. For this reason, much customary international law has been agreed to formally by treaties between nations.\n\nTreaties are essentially contracts between countries. They are agreements by which the parties intend to be bound. If treaties are broken, their effectiveness is weakened because there is no guarantee that future promises will be kept. So there is a strong incentive for nations to take treaties very seriously.\n\nModern nations engage in a two-step procedure for entering into treaties. The first step is signing the treaty. Being a signatory to a treaty means that a country intends to enter into the agreement. The second step is ratifying the treaty. A country that has ratified a treaty has gone beyond merely intending to enter into the agreement, and is now bound by it. This is a critical distinction, and sometimes a point of confusion. A nation may be a signatory to a treaty for many years without ever having ratified it.\n\nEach country ratifies treaties its own way. The United States requires the two-thirds support of the Senate, the upper body of its legislature, for a treaty to be ratified; both the executive and the legislature must agree. In Canada, on the other hand, ratification is strictly an executive action, and no parliamentary approval is required before the nation is bound.\n\nModern treaties are interpreted according to the 1969 Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties. This convention is so widely accepted that even nations that are not parties to the convention follow it. The convention's most important and sensible rule is that a treaty should be interpreted according to the plain meaning of its language, in the context of its purpose, and in good faith. This prevents much squabbling and unnecessary nit-picking. It also makes treaty authors spell out what they are trying to accomplish, to make interpretation easier, in a non-binding \"preamble.\"\n\nIn the modern world, international law is contested for its inability to enforce its rulings.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2187161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2187161", "title": "Intellectual rights to magic methods", "text": "Intellectual rights to magic methods\n\nIntellectual rights to magic methods refers to the legal and ethical debate about the extent to which proprietary or exclusive rights may subsist in the methods or processes by which magic tricks or illusions are performed. It is a subject of some controversy. \n\nOn one side, many magicians argue that methods represent \"intellectual property\" and that publication or sharing of methods should be subject to strict codes developed by magicians' organizations. On the other side, a range of people argue that publication of information about methods should not be subject to restrictions because knowledge should be freely available. The sharing of magic methods with non-magicians or the open publication of methods is referred to in the magic community as \"exposure\" and many magicians react angrily to it. \n\nWhile many magic tricks rely on traditional methods, there is also a continuing development and progress within the genre. Those who are performers and amateurs tend to take a very defensive stance against all \"exposure\", while those who are creators and originators tend to care more about recent works – works with living and identifiable creators.\n\nThere are a number of areas of law that might provide a basis for magicians to claim ownership of certain pieces of knowledge and to prevent exposure. Copyright, patent, trade secret and trademark law, are the primary sources of legal protection at issue on the topic. Each type of protection has its own limitations and loopholes. \n\nUnder the Berne Convention, member states are free to prescribe in their national legislation that copyright is automatically granted to a work only when it is \"fixed\", that is, written or recorded on some physical medium. In the U.S., copyright law only protects works that are fixed in a tangible medium of expression. Accordingly, some argue, the processes or movements required for a trick are not copyrightable within the U.S, but recordings, written descriptions, or photographs of such a performance may be copyrightable themselves.\n\nThe idea–expression dichotomy specifies that mere ideas are not entitled to copyright; only the expression of those ideas are granted protection. For example, if a magician writes a description of how a trick works, the description will generally be subject to copyright.\n\nAnother potential area of copyright protection for magic creators is through a choreography or pantomime copyright. This was successfully employed by Teller in 2014 in a case against Belgian entertainer Gerard Dogge, who had posted a YouTube video of an illusion called The Rose & Her Shadow.\n\nMagic illusion inventor and magician Hessel Bos also registered a magic trick as a copyright with the United States Copyright Office (registration is not essential for copyright protection but it offers additional advantages for rights holders). Bos registered his tricks by describing every movement of the magic tricks via text and photographs and then submitted these documents to the copyright office. They were approved under the Performance Art section and a certificate of registration was granted. In September 2008 Bos successfully filed a complaint under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act against America Online to remove a video from their website.\n\nAn invention or process which facilitates the performance of a magic trick is potentially patentable in the U.S. However, applying for patent protection requires the public release of information about how the device or process works. Furthermore, when a patent is obtained, it can only be used to prevent a third party from making or using the subject matter of the patent. This prevents other magicians from performing the trick but cannot be used to prevent anyone from revealing how the trick works.\n\nNotably, in 1938, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company was sued by magician Horace Goldin over an ad campaign which revealed one method for a \"Sawing a woman in half\" trick. The case was eventually dismissed by a federal court and Goldin then gave up on patenting his methods.\n\nExamples of patented inventions for conjuring include:\n\nMagic methods are effectively forms of trade secret and share many characteristics of trade secrets in other business sectors. As such there is a significant body of law that falls under the headings of \"confidentiality\" and \"contract law\" that might be used to control or protect them. These measures can effectively allow a perpetual monopoly in secret information – i.e. it does not expire as would a patent or copyright.\n\nA company or individual can protect their confidential information through non-disclosure contracts with employees or business associates. A magician might therefore ask a partner or fellow magician to sign a non-disclosure agreement before sharing magic methods. That contract could then be enforced through the courts. The terms of such contracts might be subject to constraints of employment law (for example including only restraint that is reasonable in geographic and time scope). As with law generally, there will be variations across jurisdictions. \n\nInformation which a magician has intentionally kept confidential and which is not in the public domain may also be deemed to have a legally enforceable quality of confidentiality. The exact legal definitions of circumstances in which such protection applies vary across jurisdictions, as do the remedies available.\n\nCourt cases provide the ultimate test for any of the possible rights outlined above and, indeed, often establish law in the form of case law. There have been a number of court cases in which magicians have sought to assert rights to magic methods and prevent publications or broadcasts. These include:\n\n\nThe most effective protection against the public exposure of magic methods may be a matter of ethics or peer pressure. One of the largest societies of magicians in the world, the International Brotherhood of Magicians, has a Code of Ethics which states:\n\nThe Brotherhood advises that any individual who is a professional or amateur magician should be aware that \"exposing\" the methods of an illusion may result in damage to their relations among other magicians.\n\nHowever, such codes don't extend to selling magic, though magicians consider the seller of a magic trick should prove that the purchaser intends to learn and perform the trick for others, thereby becoming a magician, rather than simply wanting to know how a magic trick is done out of curiosity.\n\n"}
{"id": "21900866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21900866", "title": "Interconfessional laws", "text": "Interconfessional laws\n\nThe Interconfessional laws were a series of 19th century laws in Austria which were meant to install a government based on Separation of Church and State and voted on 25 May, 1868. \n\nBishop Rudigier of Linz became known for his memorable struggle against these laws, which were not only hostile to the Church, but to the marriage and school laws. The opposition to these ordinances led to judicial proceedings against the bishop and to a fine, which was, however, at once remitted by the Emperor. \n\nThis defense of the rights of the Church with regard to the Christian schools had another negative result. In 1869 the Liberal parliamentary majority confiscated the lands forming the endowment of the diocese of Linz, and withheld them until the downfall of Liberalism in 1883. \n"}
{"id": "6022257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6022257", "title": "International Association of Prosecutors", "text": "International Association of Prosecutors\n\nThe International Association of Prosecutors (IAP) is the only global non-governmental organisation of prosecutors, established by the United Nations in 1995, Vienna.\n\nOrganisation includes about 200,000 members from over 120 states.\n\nIt was established due to rapid growth in transnational crime like drug trafficking, money laundering and fraud.\nFrom its website, \"The IAP is the only worldwide organization of prosecutors. It was established in 1995 and now has more than 145 organizational members from over 96 different jurisdictions, representing every continent, as well as many individual members.\n\nThe website sets out the objects of the IAP. All organizational members of the IAP are expected to commit to the Standards of Professional Responsibility and Statement of the Essential Duties and Rights of Prosecutors adopted by the IAP in 1999. In April 2013 a complaint was lodged against an Executive Committee member, Dr. Ali bin Fadhel Al- Buainain who as head of the Office of Public Prosecution in Bahrain has acted contrary to these standards by prosecuting Bahraini nationals for activities protected by the rights to freedom expression and assembly and for failing to adhere to fair procedures and due process standards, as asserted by Ceartas Irish lawyers for Human Rights. On April 22nd 2013, IAP President James Hamilton acknowledged receipt of the complaint and stated that it is “something we’re going to look very carefully at”, and the outcome “will certainly set a precedent for how we deal with a complaint”. Nevertheless, Dr. Ali bin Fadhel Al- Buainain has sought to be re-elected to the IAP Executive Committee at the 18th Annual General Meeting of the IAP on September 11, 2013, and it has been reported by the Bahrain State News Agency that he has already been re-elected to it for another three years.\n\nMembership brings many advantages and opportunities, including the chance to attend the annual conference. As well as providing lively and interesting discussion on questions which are of practical concern to prosecutors, the annual conferences provide excellent opportunities for networking and getting to know colleagues from other countries. Annual conferences takes place in different venues each year.\n\nRegional conferences in Africa, Latin America, Western Europe, Eastern Europe/Central Asia, North America and the Caribbean and the Asia-Pacific region are now regular events in the IAP, and are mainly aimed at front line prosecutors. Information concerning these and other events can be found on the website.\n\nThe Association also produces regular newsletters which are distributed to members. In addition a considerable amount of information on the website is available only to members including a members forum where members can exchange information and experiences. A Global Prosecutors E-Crime Network is accessible through the website and contains much information of interest to prosecutors concerning cyber crime. Similarly the ‘Forum for International Criminal Justice’ is also accessible via the website for those seeking information and contacts in that area.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "58120428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58120428", "title": "Iran-Venezuela Bi-National Bank", "text": "Iran-Venezuela Bi-National Bank\n\nIran Venezuela Bi-National Bank (, ) is an international financial institution that was founded in 2010 with an aim to develop commercial ties between Iran and Venezuela.\n\nIt started as a joint venture between two state-owned banks, Banco Industrial de Venezuela and Export Development Bank of Iran with a starting capital of $200 million offered equally by both parties.\n\nIn September 2013, the United States Department of the Treasury imposed sanction on the bank. In 2015, an official in the Central Bank of the Islamic Republic of Iran told press that \"[the] bank is not given much freedom\" and it is being managed one-sidedly by Iran, because the Venezuelan side does not participate in the general assemblies. By 2016, the Iranian side was willing to sell its share.\n"}
{"id": "1835845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1835845", "title": "Judicial restraint", "text": "Judicial restraint\n\nJudicial restraint is a theory of judicial interpretation that encourages judges to limit the exercise of their own power. It asserts that judges should hesitate to strike down laws unless they are obviously unconstitutional, though what counts as obviously unconstitutional is itself a matter of some debate. Judicial restraint is sometimes regarded as the opposite of judicial activism. In deciding questions of constitutional law, judicially restrained jurists go to great lengths to defer to the legislature. Judicially restrained judges respect stare decisis, the principle of upholding established precedent handed down by past judges.\n\nFormer Associate Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr., considered to be one of the first major advocates of the philosophy, would describe the importance of judicial restraint in many of his books. One noted academic described Associate Justice Felix Frankfurter, a Democrat appointed by Franklin Roosevelt, as the \"model of judicial restraint\".\n\nWhen the conservative Rehnquist Court overturned some of the precedents of the more liberal Warren Court, \"Time\" magazine said he was not following the theory of judicial restraint. However, Rehnquist was also acknowledged as a more conservative advocate of the philosophy.\n\nJudicial minimalists argue that judges should put great emphasis on adherence to \"stare decisis\" and precedent. Minimalists argue that judges should make only minor, incremental changes to constitutional law to maintain that stability. They ask judges to do this by creating small, case-specific rulings rather than broad, sweeping rulings.\n\nThe political question doctrine encourages courts to decline to rule in certain categories of politically controversial cases. Under this theory, a court acknowledges that the Constitution might have been violated but declines to act. It is often described as a type of judicial restraint, although it can be considered a form of judicial activism against plaintiffs whose rights have been violated and find their cases dismissed.\n\n"}
{"id": "2761506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2761506", "title": "Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District", "text": "Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District\n\nKitzmiller v. Dover Area School District, 400 F. Supp. 2d 707 (M.D. Pa. 2005) was the first direct challenge brought in the United States federal courts testing a public school district policy that required the teaching of intelligent design. In October 2004, the Dover Area School District of York County, Pennsylvania changed its biology teaching curriculum to require that intelligent design be presented as an alternative to evolution theory, and that \"Of Pandas and People\", a textbook advocating intelligent design, was to be used as a reference book. The prominence of this textbook during the trial was such that the case is sometimes referred to as the Dover Panda Trial, a name which recalls the popular name of the Scopes Monkey Trial in Tennessee, 80 years earlier. The plaintiffs successfully argued that intelligent design is a form of creationism, and that the school board policy violated the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution. The judge's decision sparked considerable response from both supporters and critics.\n\nEleven parents of students in Dover, York County, Pennsylvania, near the city of York, sued the Dover Area School District over the school board requirement that a statement presenting intelligent design as \"an explanation of the origin of life that differs from Darwin's view\" was to be read aloud in ninth-grade science classes when evolution was taught. The plaintiffs were represented by the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), Americans United for Separation of Church and State (AU) and Pepper Hamilton LLP. The National Center for Science Education (NCSE) acted as consultants for the plaintiffs. The defendants were represented by the Thomas More Law Center (TMLC). The Foundation for Thought and Ethics, publisher of \"Of Pandas and People\", tried to join the lawsuit late as a defendant but was denied for multiple reasons.\n\nThe suit was brought in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania seeking declaratory and injunctive relief. Since it sought an equitable remedy, by the Seventh Amendment, right to a jury trial did not apply. It was tried in a bench trial from September 26, 2005, to November 4, 2005, before Judge John E. Jones III, a Republican appointed in 2002 by George W. Bush.\n\nOn December 20, 2005, Jones issued his 139-page findings of fact and decision ruling that the Dover mandate requiring the statement to be read in class was unconstitutional. The ruling concluded that intelligent design is not science, and permanently barred the board from \"maintaining the ID Policy in any school within the Dover Area School District, from requiring teachers to denigrate or disparage the scientific theory of evolution, and from requiring teachers to refer to a religious, alternative theory known as ID.\"\n\nAll eight of the Dover school board members who were up for re-election on November 8, 2005, were defeated by a set of challengers who opposed the teaching of intelligent design in a science class. (The ninth member was not up for re-election.) The new school board president subsequently stated that the board did not intend to appeal the ruling.\n\nFrom 2002, William (Bill) Buckingham and Alan Bonsell, members of the Dover Area School District Board of Education who were young earth creationists, had made various statements supporting teaching creationism alongside evolution. At a board meeting on June 7, 2004, Buckingham mentioned creationism and raised objections to the proposed use of the textbook \"Biology\" written by Kenneth R. Miller and Joseph S. Levine, describing it as \"laced with Darwinism\" and saying it was \"inexcusable to have a book that says man descended from apes with nothing to counterbalance it.\"\n\nThis story made the York newspapers, and Buckingham was telephoned by Discovery Institute staff attorney Seth Cooper, whose tasks included \"communicating with legislators, school board members, teachers, parents and students\" to \"address the topic of ID in a scientifically and educationally responsible way\" in public schools. He later stated that he made the call to \"steer the Dover Board away from trying to include intelligent design in the classroom or from trying to insert creationism into its \", an account Buckingham has disputed. Cooper sent the book and DVD of \"Icons of Evolution\" to Buckingham, who required the Dover High School science teachers to watch the DVD. They did not take up the opportunity to use it in their classes.\n\nCooper advised that the Discovery Institute was not offering legal advice, and soon afterwards Buckingham contacted Richard Thompson of the Thomas More Law Center, who agreed to represent the Dover Board, and recommended the book \"Of Pandas and People\". On October 18, 2004, the school board voted 6–3 resolving that there were to be lectures on the subject, with \"Pandas\" as a reference book, and that the following statement was to be added to their biology curriculum: \"Students will be made aware of the gaps/problems in Darwin's theory and of other theories of evolution including, but not limited to, intelligent design. Note: Origins of life is not taught.\"\n\nOn November 19, 2004, the Dover Area School District issued a press release stating that, commencing in January 2005, teachers would be required to read the following statement to students in the ninth-grade biology class at Dover High School:\n\nThe three school board members who voted against it resigned in protest, and science teachers in the district refused to read the statement to their ninth-grade students, citing the Pennsylvania state code 235.10(2), which requires that \"The professional educator may not ... Knowingly and intentionally misrepresent subject matter or curriculum.\" Instead, the statement was read to students by a school administrator.\n\nThe school board's statement asserting that there are \"gaps\" in evolution and that it specifically is a theory \"not a fact\" singled out evolution, implying it is just a hunch, even though this is not the actual meaning of the term \"scientific theory\". The reference to \"Of Pandas and People\" and presentation of intelligent design as an alternative \"explanation of the origins of life\" presented it as though it were a scientific explanation, in contrast to the way that evolution was described. Encouraging students to \"keep an open mind\" about alternatives without offering an alternative scientific explanation implied an invitation to meditate on a religious view, endorsing the religious view in a way similar to the disclaimer found to be unconstitutional in the \"Freiler v. Tangipahoa Parish Board of Education\" case. The school board claimed the statement does not teach intelligent design and simply makes students aware of its existence as an alternative to evolution, but no such statements were made about other subjects. As part of the presentation, the administrators stated that \"there will be no other discussion of the issue and your teachers will not answer questions on the issue\", giving intelligent design a position not applied to scientific topics. The board denied that intelligent design was \"religion in disguise,\" despite being represented in court by the Thomas More Law Center, a conservative Christian not-for-profit law center that uses litigation to promote \"the religious freedom of Christians and time-honored family values\". Its stated purpose is \"... to be the sword and shield for people of faith\".\n\nThe American Civil Liberties Union filed suit on December 14, 2004, on behalf of eleven parents from the Dover school district, and sought a law firm willing to take on the case at the risk of not being paid if the case was lost. Eric Rothschild, a partner at Pepper Hamilton LLP and a member of the National Center for Science Education legal advisory council, was quick to agree to take the case on such a contingency basis.\n\nThe Discovery Institute's John West said the case displayed the ACLU's \"Orwellian\" effort to stifle scientific discourse and objected to the issue being decided in court. \"It's a disturbing prospect that the outcome of this lawsuit could be that the court will try to tell scientists what is legitimate scientific inquiry and what is not,\" West said. \"That is a flagrant assault on free speech.\" Opponents, represented by the American Association for the Advancement of Science and the National Association of Biology Teachers, contended that his statement is not just ironic, but hypocritical, as the Discovery Institute opposes methodological naturalism, the basic principle that limits science to natural phenomena and natural causes without assuming the existence or non-existence of the supernatural, which by definition is beyond natural explanation.\n\nDespite its earlier involvement, the Discovery Institute was concerned that this would be a test case and that the defendants had earlier displayed their religious motivations. This tension led to disagreements with the Thomas More Law Center and the withdrawal of three Discovery Institute fellows as defense experts prior to their depositions – William A. Dembski, Stephen C. Meyer and John Angus Campbell. This was purportedly because the Thomas More Law Center refused to allow these witnesses to have their own attorneys present during deposition, but Discovery Institute director Bruce Chapman later said that he had asked them not to testify (as well as Behe and Minnich, who testified anyway).\n\nIn May 2005, the publisher of \"Of Pandas and People\", the Foundation for Thought and Ethics (FTE), filed a motion seeking to intervene in the case. FTE argued that a ruling that intelligent design was religious would have severe financial consequences, citing possible losses of approximately half a million dollars. By intervening, FTE would have become a co-defendant with the Dover Area School Board, and able to bring its own lawyers and expert witnesses to the case. FTE's president Jon Buell implied that if allowed to intervene, FTE would bring Dembski and Meyer as expert witnesses. In his decision on the motion, Jones ruled that FTE was not entitled to intervene in the case because its motion to intervene was not timely, describing FTE's reasons for not trying to become involved earlier as \"both unavailing and disingenuous.\" Jones also held that FTE had failed to demonstrate that it has \"a significantly protectable interest in the litigation warranting intervention as a party\" and that its interests would not be adequately represented by the defendants.\n\nIn the November 2005 elections, none of the members of the Dover School Board who voted for the intelligent design policy were re-elected, and a new school board, which rejected the policy, took office. This effectively precluded the possibility of an appeal to a higher court.\n\nThe of this trial were as follows:\n\nThe plaintiffs were all parents of students enrolled in the Dover Area School district.\n\n\n\nThe trial began on September 26, 2005.\n\nEric Rothschild gave the opening statement for the plaintiffs. He said that the plaintiffs would be able to provide many examples of school board members wishing to balance the teaching of evolution with creationism. He attacked prior defense claims that it was a minor affair by saying that there is no such thing as a \"little\" constitutional violation. He also provided the definition of creationism given by an early draft of \"Pandas\": \"Creation is the theory that various forms of life began abruptly, with their distinctive features already intact: Fish with fins and scales, birds with feathers and wings, mammals with fur and mammary glands.\" He compared this with what was eventually published: \"Intelligent design means that various forms of life began abruptly through an intelligent agency, with their distinctive features already intact: Fish with fins and scales, birds with feathers, beaks and wings, et cetera.\" (The definitions had come up earlier in a July 14 pre-trial hearing.) He also argued that intelligent design was not science in its infancy, but rather was not science at all.\n\nPatrick Gillen gave the opening arguments for the defense. He started by saying that the goal of the board and its supporters was to enhance science education. He argued that the policy was a \"modest change.\" He distanced the policy from alleged statements by then board member William Buckingham that the plaintiffs argued showed clear religious intent: \"The board listened to the science faculty more than it listened to Bill Buckingham.\" He argued that the policy did not have a \"religious agenda.\" Gillen mentioned that board member Alan Bonsell had done his own reading. He said Bonsell was \"aware of intelligent design theory, and that 300 or so scientists had signed a statement indicating that biologists were exaggerating claims for the theory. He had read about the famous Piltdown man hoax. He had an interest in creationism.\"\n\n\nBefore her testimony, the TMLC filed a motion to have her excluded as an expert witness. In that motion they characterized her as \"little more than a conspiracy theorist and a web-surfing, 'cyber-stalker' of the Discovery Institute.\" Jones denied the motion.\n\nForrest gave testimony on the history of the intelligent design movement, citing writings of prominent figures (such as Discovery Institute's \"Wedge Document\", Phillip Johnson's \"How the Evolution Debate Can be Won\", and of William Dembski). She also testified that ID was merely another name for the creationism movement, attempting to present a religious proposition as a scientific viewpoint. She stated that Johnson \"regards evolution as a threat to the Bible in its entirety and as a threat to the moral fabric of American culture,\" and that one of the goals of his movement is to unify the religious world. She added that there is \"no way to reconcile <nowiki>[...]</nowiki> at all\" the Dover school board newsletter statement that intelligent design is a scientific theory with Paul Nelson's statements in the interview \"The Measure of Design\".\n\nForrest noted that she was unaware of any evidence that the members of the School board had seen the \"Wedge Document\" before the lawsuit.\n\nSeveral days before her scheduled testimony, the Discovery Institute publicly ridiculed her on their website.\n\n\n\nAs a primary witness for the defense, Behe was asked to support the idea that intelligent design was legitimate science. Behe's critics have pointed to a number of key exchanges under cross examination, where he conceded that, \"There are no peer reviewed articles by anyone advocating for intelligent design supported by pertinent experiments or calculations which provide detailed rigorous accounts of how intelligent design of any biological system occurred.\" \nIn response to a question about astrology he explained: \"Under my definition, a scientific theory is a proposed explanation which focuses or points to physical, observable data and logical inferences. There are many things throughout the history of science which we now think to be incorrect which nonetheless ... would fit that definition. Yes, astrology is in fact one, and so is the ether theory of the propagation of light, and ... many other theories as well.\"\n\nHis simulation modelling of evolution with David Snoke described in a 2004 paper had been listed by the Discovery Institute amongst claimed \"Peer-Reviewed & Peer-Edited Scientific Publications Supporting the Theory of Intelligent Design\", but under oath he accepted that it showed that the biochemical systems it described could evolve within 20,000 years, even if the parameters of the simulation were rigged to make that outcome as unlikely as possible.\n\n\n\nClosing arguments were made on November 4, 2005. Upon completion of the closing arguments, Gillen asked Jones, \"By my reckoning, this is the 40th day since the trial began and tonight will be the 40th night, and I would like to know if you did that on purpose.\" (40 days and nights was the length of the Biblical Great Flood.) Jones responded, \"Mr. Gillen, that is an interesting coincidence, but it was not by design.\" This humorous exchange provided the title for Matthew Chapman's book about the trial, \"40 Days and 40 Nights\".\n\nOn December 20, 2005, Jones found for the plaintiffs and issued a , in which he wrote:\n\nIn his , he wrote:\n\nJones anticipated that his ruling would be criticized, saying in his decision that:\n\nFulfilling Jones's prediction, John G. West, Associate Director of the Center for Science and Culture at Discovery Institute, said:\n\nThe Dover decision is an attempt by an activist federal judge to stop the spread of a scientific idea and even to prevent criticism of Darwinian evolution through government-imposed censorship rather than open debate, and it won't work. He has conflated Discovery Institute's position with that of the Dover school board, and he totally misrepresents intelligent design and the motivations of the scientists who research it.\n\nNewspapers have noted that the judge is \"a Republican and a churchgoer.\" In the months following the decision, Jones received bags of mail, including threats against him and his family serious enough to warrant around-the-clock U.S. Marshal protection.\n\nOn February 21, 2006, the newly elected Dover Area School Board voted, unanimously with one abstention, to pay $1,000,011 in legal fees and damages due to the parents and their lawyers as a result of the verdict in the case, a large sum of money for a small district. The previous school board had been offered the opportunity to rescind its policy, and avoid paying legal fees, immediately after the lawsuit was filed in 2004, but it declined. The parents' attorneys Pepper Hamilton stated that court records would show that they were entitled to more than $2 million, but were going to accept less than half that amount in recognition of the small size of the school district, and because the school board that voted for the policy had been voted out of office, leaving the new school board \"having the bill placed in their laps.\" The previous school board had been defended without charge by the Thomas More Law Center. Richard Katskee, assistant legal director for Americans United, said of the trial's cost, \"Any board thinking of trying to do what the Dover board did is going to have to look for a bill in excess of $2 million,\" and \"I think $2 million is a lot to explain to taxpayers for a lawsuit that should never be fought.\"\n\nAfter the trial, there were calls for the defendants, accused of not presenting their case honestly, to be put on trial for committing perjury. \"Witnesses either testified inconsistently, or lied outright under oath on several occasions,\" Jones wrote. \"The inescapable truth is that both [Alan] Bonsell and [William] Buckingham lied at their January 3, 2005 depositions. ... Bonsell repeatedly failed to testify in a truthful manner. ... Defendants have unceasingly attempted in vain to distance themselves from their own actions and statements, which culminated in repetitious, untruthful testimony.\" An editorial in the \"York Daily Record\" described their behavior as both ironic and sinful, saying that the \"unintelligent designers of this fiasco should not walk away unscathed.\" Judge Jones recommended to the US Attorney's office that the school board members be investigated for perjury.\n\n\nThe \"University of Montana Law Review\" published three articles addressing this topic in its winter 2007 issue. David K. DeWolf, John G. West and Casey Luskin, senior fellows or officers of the Discovery Institute, argued that intelligent design is a valid scientific theory, that the Jones court should not have addressed the question of whether it was a scientific theory, and that the decision will have no effect on the development and adoption of intelligent design as an alternative to standard evolutionary theory. Peter Irons responded to the DeWolf et al. article, arguing that the decision was extremely well reasoned, and that it marks the end to legal efforts by the intelligent design movement to introduce creationism in public schools. It had been an essential part of the ruling to consider whether ID was a legitimate scientific theory as claimed by its proponents, and DeWolf, et al. had implicitly recognised this by citing the Lemon test, which would have been irrelevant if ID were legitimate science. DeWolf et al. responded to the Irons article in the same issue.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51783093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51783093", "title": "Law Reform (Miscellaneous Provisions) (Scotland) Act 1990", "text": "Law Reform (Miscellaneous Provisions) (Scotland) Act 1990\n\nThe Law Reform (Miscellaneous Provisions) (Scotland) Act 1990 (c 40)is an Act of Parliament of the United Kingdom dealing with a variety of matters relating to Scottish law.\n\nAmongst other things the legislation addresses:\n\nSection 66 of the Act provides for the UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration to apply to Scotland. The Model Law itself is set out in Schedule 7 to the Act.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40018576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40018576", "title": "Lochead-MacMillan v AMI Insurance Ltd", "text": "Lochead-MacMillan v AMI Insurance Ltd\n\nLochead-MacMillan v AMI Insurance Ltd [2012] NZHRRT 5 was an important case on privacy law in New Zealand that was decided in the Human Rights Review Tribunal. Besides reinforcing the principle that a person can receive general damages for breaches of privacy for humiliation and injury of feelings, it set the precedent of increasing such an award from the then $7,500 to $10,000, and was prominent enough to be included on the Privacy Commission's June 2012 newsletter.\n\nThe Lochead-MacMillan's house in Waiuku was insured with AMI Insurance. When their house later burnt down, they made an insurance claim with AMI. AMI in assessing the claim, got an investigator to interview the claimants. Two interviews were conducted, both of which were recorded by the investigator.\n\nOn 4 February 2010, the claimants requested AMI for a copy of audio files and transcripts, which under the Privacy Act they had the legal right to obtain. Only the transcript for the second interview was provided on 22 February, which was incomplete, and the transcript for the first interview was only provided in June.\n\nWith regards the request for the audio files, it was never acknowledged despite they were legally required to do so within 20 working days of the request. This request was never complied with by AMI, as at some stage the audio files were lost by them.\n\nOn 2 March 2010, unaware that the audio files were lost, requested AMI again for the audio files, and 3 days later AMI informed them that their claim had now been accepted, although there was still a dispute of the amount that was to be paid by AMI.\n\nThe claimants again requested the audio files from AMI on 13 April 2010.\n\nConcerned about the progress of their insurance claim, on 6 May 2010 they requested AMI to also provide a copy of the VFR fire investigation report. While in this instance they got a reply from AMI on 21 May, they refused to provide them with the report on the grounds of litigation privilege.\n\nFive days later, they claimants later accepted, under protest, a lesser amount than they had claimed. They did so without the benefit of having the investigators report on hand.\nHowever, after this matter was investigated by the Privacy Commission, AMI released the report to them on 3 November.\n\nThe claimants then filed a claim with the Human Rights Review Tribunal.\n\nThe Tribunal ruled that AMI breached the Lochead-MacMillan's privacy on numerous grounds, including not giving a written decision to access requests, not providing records within a reasonable time, and not informing them of their right to lodge a complaint with the Privacy Commission.\n\nFurthermore, the Tribunal ruled that AMI's claim of litigation privilege was not genuine, as when they said this, they had no reasonable contemplation of litigation on the matter.\n\nThe Tribunal made a ruling for damages of $10,000 for the violation and the injury to Lochead-MacMillan's feelings.\n\n"}
{"id": "58215793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58215793", "title": "Mahoney v Ashton", "text": "Mahoney v Ashton\n\nMahoney v Ashton was a slavery case brought before the General Court of the Western Shore in Annapolis, Maryland in 1791. On October 18, 1791 the slave Charles Mahoney filed a petition for freedom before the court against his owner, Father John Ashton, a Roman Catholic priest and former Jesuit. Mahoney claimed that he was descended from a free woman named Ann Joice, an indentured servant, making him a free man. Mahoney v. Ashton dragged on for twelve years, including three jury trials and two appeal hearings. The result was inconclusive, but on the 4th of May 1804 John Ashton recorded a deed that \"forever set free Charles Mahoney.\", and agreed to \"relinquish and renounce all claim whatever which I have or ever had to him.\"\n\nThe case involved hundreds of participants including many notable members of the Maryland slave-owning gentry, including Charles Carroll of Carrollton.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "757075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=757075", "title": "Marriage vows", "text": "Marriage vows\n\nMarriage vows are promises each partner in a couple makes to the other during a wedding ceremony based upon Western Christian norms. They are not universal to marriage and not necessary in most legal jurisdictions. They are not even universal within Christian marriage, as Eastern Christians do not have marriage vows in their traditional wedding ceremonies.\n\nIn the time of the Roman Empire (17 BC476 AD) the lower classes had \"free\" marriages. The bride's father would deliver her to the groom, and the two agreed that they were wed, and would keep the vow of marriage by mutual consent. Wealthy Romans, though, would sign documents listing property rights to publicly declare that their union was legalized and not a common law marriage. This was the beginning of the official recording of marriage.\n\nThe oldest traditional wedding vows can be traced back to the manuals of the medieval church. In England, there were manuals of the dioceses of Salisbury (Sarum) and York. The compilers of the first Book of Common Prayer, published in 1549, based its marriage service mainly on the Sarum manual. Upon agreement to marry, the Church of England usually offered couples a choice. The couple could promise each other to \"love and cherish\" or, alternatively, the groom promises to \"love, cherish, and worship\", and the bride to \"love, cherish, and obey\".\n\nCouples wedding in the Roman Catholic Church essentially make the same pledge to one another. According to the Rite of Marriage (#25) the customary text in English is:\n\nI, ____, take you, ____, to be my (husband/wife). I promise to be true to you in good times and in bad, in sickness and in health. I will love you and honour you all the days of my life.\n\nIn the United States, Catholic wedding vows may also take the following form:\n\nI, ____, take you, ____, to be my lawfully wedded (husband/wife), to have and to hold, from this day forward, for better, for worse, for richer, for poorer, in sickness and in health, until death do us part.\n\nThe priest will then say aloud \"You have declared your consent before the Church. May the Lord in his goodness strengthen your consent and fill you both with his blessings. What God has joined, men must not divide. Amen.\"\n\nThe law in England authorizes marriages to be legal if properly carried out and registered in the Church of England and some other religious bodies (e.g. Jewish, Quakers): other men and women who wish to marry can be married by a local official authorized to do so (civil ceremony). Circumstances may result in the same partners having both ceremonies at different times, though this is rare. The vows, presence of witnesses, and civil registration are absolute requirements under the law.\n\nCivil ceremonies often allow couples to choose their own marriage vows, although many civil marriage vows are adapted from the traditional vows, taken from the Book of Common Prayer, \"To have and to hold from this day forward, for better for worse, for richer for poorer, in sickness and in health, to love and to cherish, till death us do part.\"\n\nThey were first published in English in the prayer book of 1549, based on earlier Latin texts (the Sarum and York Rituals of the medieval period). An older version of the final phrase is \" until death us depart\" where \"depart\" means \"separate\". \"Until death us depart\" had to be changed due to changes in the usage of \"depart\" in the Prayer Book of 1662. In the 1928 prayer book (not authorized) and in editions of the 1662 prayer book printed thereafter \"obey\" was retained (in the 1928 book an alternative version omitted this). The 1928 revised form of Matrimony was quite widely adopted, though the form of 1662 was also widely used, though less so after the introduction of the Alternative Service Book.\n\nThe original wedding vows, as printed in The Book of Common Prayer, are:\nGroom: I,____, take thee,_____, to be my wedded Wife, to have and to hold from this day forward, for better for worse, for richer for poorer, in sickness and in health, to love and to cherish, till death us do part, according to God's holy ordinance; and thereto I plight thee my troth.\n\nBride: I,_____, take thee,_____, to be my wedded Husband, to have and to hold from this day forward, for better for worse, for richer for poorer, in sickness and in health, to love, cherish, and to obey, till death us do part, according to God's holy ordinance; and thereto I give thee my troth.\nThen, as the groom places the ring on the bride's finger, he says the following:\nWith this Ring I thee wed, with my body I thee worship, and with all my worldly goods I thee endow: In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen.\nIn the Alternative Service Book (1980) two versions of the vows are included: the bride and groom must select one of the versions only. Version A:\nI, ____, take you, ____, to be my wife (or husband), to have and to hold from this day forward, for better, for worse, for richer, for poorer, in sickness and in health, to love and to cherish, till death us do part, according to God's holy law, and this is my solemn vow.\n\nVersion B is identical except for the clause \"to love and to cherish\" where the groom says \"to love, cherish, and worship\" and the bride says \"to love, cherish, and obey\".\n\nSince 2000 the service in Common Worship the normal vows are as follows:\n\nI,\"N\", take you, \"N\", to be my wife (or husband), to have and to hold from this day forward, for better, for worse, for richer, for poorer, in sickness and in health, to love and to cherish, till death us do part, according to God's holy law, in the presence of God I make this vow.\n\nHowever, the bride and groom may choose to replace the clause \"to love and to cherish\" with \"to love, cherish, and obey\" when the bride makes her vows.\n\nOn September 12, 1922, the Episcopal Church voted to remove the word \"obey\" from the bride's section of wedding vows. Other churches of the Anglican Communion each have their own authorized prayer books which in general follow the vows described above though the details and languages used do vary.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, since the first law regulating marriage (the Marriage Act 1753), the state recognises marriages conducted by the \"Society of Friends\" (Quakers), Jews, and the Church of England.\n\nThe declarations made in Quaker marriage were first set down in a London Yearly Meeting minute in 1675 as such:\nMan: Friends, in the fear of the Lord, and before this assembly, I take my friend \"AB\" to be my wife, promising, through divine assistance, to be unto her a loving and faithful husband, until it shall please the Lord by death to separate us.\n\nWoman: Friends, in the fear of the Lord, and before this assembly, I take my friend \"CD\" to be my husband, promising, through divine assistance, to be unto him a loving and faithful wife, until it shall please the Lord by death to separate us.\nThe procedure is restated in a minute of London Yearly Meeting of 1754, and the declarations remained the same until the twentieth century. In July 1922, the Committee on the Marriage Declaration was set up, and this reported to London Yearly Meeting in 1923, and after reference to a further committee the final phrase was changed to \"as long as we both on earth shall live\"; although the option of \"until it shall please the Lord by death to separate us\" remained as an alternative.\n\nThe current declarations allowed in Britain Yearly Meeting is:\nFriends, I take this my friend [name] to be my spouse, promising, through divine assistance, to be unto him/her a loving and faithful spouse, so long as we both on earth shall live.\n\nThe following alternatives are currently allowed:\n\nWhilst couples may add to these, under the Marriage Act 1949, all civil marriage in England and Wales, and marriage by an authorised person (this includes religious marriage not carried out by the Anglican church, Jewish or Society of Friends (Quakers)), must include the following declaration and contracting words:\n\nI do solemnly declare that I know not of any lawful impediment why I ____ may not be joined in matrimony to ____.\n\nI call upon these persons here present to witness that I ____ do take thee ____ to be my lawfully wedded wife/husband.\n\nThe \"Marriage Ceremony (Prescribed Words) Act 1996\" allowed an alternative declaration of either:\n\nI declare that I know of no legal reason why I ____ may not be joined in marriage to ____.\n\n\"Registrar/Minister\": Are you ____ free lawfully to marry ____<br>\"Man/Woman\": I am. \n\nand an alternative of the contracting words of:\nI ____ take you/thee ____ to be my wedded wife/husband.\n\nThe wedding vows as practised in most English-speaking countries derive ultimately from the Sarum rite of mediaeval England. The first part of the vows of the Sarum rite is given in Latin, but is instructed to be said by the priest \"in linguam materna\", i.e. in the \"mother tongue\" of those present. The vows of the first English prayer book of 1549 mostly correspond to those of the Sarum rite.\n\n"}
{"id": "10953893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10953893", "title": "Matthew Ashby", "text": "Matthew Ashby\n\nMatthew Ashby was born in York County, Virginia, in 1727. He is a notable and rare example of the successful escape from slavery and indentured servitude. The son of a black slave and a white indentured servant, he was born free under Virginia law, which at the time gave children the legal status of their mothers. Ashby worked around the Williamsburg area as a carter and carpenter. He was also known to deliver messages for the state, working for Governor Botetourt. Although he himself was indentured until the age of 31, by law, he managed to acquire many things that were well out of the realm of the average slave or servant, including a silver watch, candle making supplies, tea boards, and books. \n\nMatthew married Ann, a slave of the bricklayer, Samuel Spurr. They had two children named John and Mary, who attended the Bray school affiliated with the College of William and Mary. Ms. Anne Wager taught the children the Church of England catechism as well as other subjects. Matthew was able to use his free status to buy his children and wife from Spurr, at the cost of £150. \n\nDespite owning his own children and wife Ashby still had to petition the government for their freedom. Standing before the council, Ashby proclaimed that his wife had been faithful and diligent in all her wifely duties, and that his children were also deserving of their freedom. The council deliberated and found that they agreed with his proposal and his family was granted their freedom in 1769. Two years later Ashby died of a heart disease, leaving his family alone. Having freed his family from slavery and amassing a sizable estate with monetary value well above the average indentured servant or slave. \n\n"}
{"id": "176303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=176303", "title": "Mayflower Compact", "text": "Mayflower Compact\n\nThe Mayflower Compact was the first governing document of Plymouth Colony. It was written by the male passengers of the \"Mayflower,\" consisting of separatist Puritans, adventurers, and tradesmen. The Puritans were fleeing from religious persecution by King James of England.\n\nThe Mayflower Compact was signed aboard ship on November 11, 1620. They used the Julian Calendar, also known as Old Style dates, which was ten days behind the Gregorian Calendar. Signing the covenant were 41 of the ship's 101 passengers while the \"Mayflower\" was anchored in Provincetown Harbor within the hook at the northern tip of Cape Cod.\n\nThe \"Mayflower\" was originally bound for the Colony of Virginia, financed by the Company of Merchant Adventurers of London. Storms forced them to anchor at the hook of Cape Cod in Massachusetts, however, as it was unwise to continue with provisions running short. This inspired some of the non-Puritan passengers (whom the Puritans referred to as \"Strangers\") to proclaim that they \"would use their own liberty; for none had power to command them\" since they would not be settling in the agreed-upon Virginia territory. To prevent this, the Pilgrims determined to establish their own government, while still affirming their allegiance to the Crown of England. Thus, the Mayflower Compact was based simultaneously upon a majoritarian model and the settlers' allegiance to the king. It was in essence a social contract in which the settlers consented to follow the community's rules and regulations for the sake of order and survival. \n\nThe Pilgrims had lived for some years in Leiden, a city in the Dutch Republic. Historian Nathaniel Philbrick states, \"Just as a spiritual covenant had marked the beginning of their congregation in Leiden, a civil covenant would provide the basis for a secular government in America.\"\n\nThe original document has been lost, but three versions exist from the 17th century: printed in \"Mourt's Relation\" (1622), which was reprinted in \"Purchas his Pilgrimes\" (1625); hand-written by William Bradford in his journal \"Of Plimoth Plantation\" (1646); and printed by Bradford's nephew Nathaniel Morton in \"New-Englands Memorial\" (1669). The three versions differ slightly in wording and significantly in spelling, capitalization, and punctuation. William Bradford wrote the first part of \"Mourt's Relation\", including its version of the compact, so he wrote two of the three versions. The wording of those two versions is indeed quite similar, unlike that of Morton. Bradford's handwritten manuscript is kept in a vault at the State Library of Massachusetts.\n\nModern version\n\nThe document was signed under the Old Style Julian calendar, since England did not adopt the Gregorian calendar until 1752. The Gregorian date would be November 21.\n\nA list of 41 male passengers who signed the document was supplied by Bradford's nephew Nathaniel Morton in his 1669 \"New England's Memorial\". Thomas Prince first numbered the names in his 1736 \"A Chronological History of New-England in the form of Annals\". The original document has been lost, so Morton is the sole source for the signers. He probably had access to the original document, but he could not have known the actual order in which it was signed simply by inspecting it. Morton's arrangement of names might not have been the arrangement on the original document, and the names on the original may not have been arranged in any orderly fashion. Prince's numbers are based solely on Morton, as he himself stated.\n\nMorton's list of names was unnumbered and untitled in all six editions (1669–1855), although their order changed with successive editions. In his original 1669 edition, the names were placed on two successive pages forming six short columns, three per page. In subsequent editions, these six short columns were combined into three long columns on a single page in two different ways, producing two different orders in unnumbered lists of signers. The second (1721) and third (1772) editions changed the order of the first edition by combining the first and fourth columns into the first long column, and similarly for the other columns. The fifth (1826) and sixth (1855) editions returned the names to their original first edition order by combining the first and second short columns into the first long column, and similarly for the other columns. Prince numbered the names in their original 1669 Morton order. He added titles (Mr. or Capt.) to 11 names that were given those titles by William Bradford in the list of passengers at the end of his manuscript. \n\nThe following list of signers is organized into the six short columns of Morton (1669) with the numbers and titles of Prince. The names are given their modern spelling according to Morison. Use the numbers for the order used by genealogists and half of unnumbered lists (Samuel Fuller will be the eighth name), but merge the half columns vertically into full columns for the order used by the other half of unnumbered lists (John Turner will be the eighth name).\n\n"}
{"id": "21412396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21412396", "title": "New York energy law", "text": "New York energy law\n\nNew York energy law is the statutory, regulatory, and common law of the state of New York concerning the policy, conservation, taxation, and utilities involved in energy. Secondary sources have also influenced the law of energy in the Empire State.\n\nThe myriad legal issues concerning hydrofracking in New York has in the 2010s spawned a new body of legal authority with primary authorities such as case law, statutes, and zoning regulations, as well as secondary sources such as law review and newspaper articles, for this rapidly changing field of law.\n\nThe \"New York Consolidated Laws\" includes a statutory code called the \"Energy Law\". Under New York law, \"energy\" and \"energy resources\" are defined as:\n\nThe N.Y. Energy Law became effective on July 26, 1976 as Chapter 17-A of the Consolidated Laws. The 1970s was a period of tremendous expansion of both federal and state laws concerning energy.\n\nThis code is divided into these articles, which are \"not\" sequential:<br>\n1. Short Title; Definitions<br>\n3. State Energy Policy<br>\n5. State Energy Office, etc.<br>\n7. Transfer of Functions<br>\n8. Light Efficiency Standards (for existing buildings) Act<br>\n9. Energy Performance (for public buildings)<br>\n10. Fuel Set-aside Act<br>\n11. Conservation Construction Code Act<br>\n12. Solar Energy Products Warranty Act<br>\n13. State Green Building Construction Act (new, \"Effective Date: 03/24/2009\")<br>\n16. Appliance Efficiency Standards (new)<br>\n17. Energy Information<br>\n18. Temporary Nuclear Waste Repositories<br>\n21. Energy Supply and Production<br>\nAppendix – Rules\n\nThe \"Bluebook\" citation for \"McKinney's Statutes\" is N.Y. Engy. L., while for the \"Consolidated Laws\", the citation is \"Energy\".\n\nThe New York State Senate Energy and Telecommunications Committee is chaired by Senator Joseph Griffo, a Republican from Rome, in Oneida County.\n\nRepublican Senator George D. Maziarz, of Newfane, in western Niagara County, was formerly chair of the committee. Prior to Maziarz, Democratic Senator Darrel Aubertine, of upstate Cape Vincent, Jefferson County, was chair of the committee. \n\nIn 2008, the Senate referred six bills to the Assembly Energy committee, but none of them were passed. Senate Majority Leader Malcolm Smith replaced Senator Kevin Parker, of Kings County (Brooklyn), then chair, with Aubertine on May 11, 2009, after Parker's arrest on harassment charges. Aubertine supported an extension to the \"Power for Jobs\" state program. In November 2010, Aubertine lost re-election, and the Republicans garnered a majority. In 2014, George Maziarz held a meeting with the Public Service Commission to discuss the PSC's extension of the 18-a surcharge (the temporary utility assessment) which he claimed overcharged ratepayers by $250 million dollars and the state Senate Republicans were calling a new state tax. Maziarz chose not to run for re-election in 2014 after being charged by former state Attorney General Eric Schneiderman with election law violations.\n\nAs of November 2018, Member of the Assembly Michael Cusick, a Democrat representing parts of Staten Island, is chairperson of the New York State Assembly Committee on Energy. \n\nIn 2014, Member of the Assembly Amy Paulin, representing parts of suburban Westchester County, was the chair. Congressman Paul Tonko, Assemblyman Kevin Cahill, representing Upstate Ulster and Dutchess counties, and Thomas O'Mara are all past chairs. Former comptroller Andrew Hevesi, was formerly a chair of the Assembly Renewable Energy subcommittee.\n\nIn 2017, the Committee on Energy held hearings to discuss the pending shut down of Indian Point, Zero-Emissions Credits, and the Clean Energy Standard. Committee on Energy hearings in 2009 included hearings on the New York Independent System Operator's Electricity Commodity Pricing, the December Ice Storm power outages, and an annual report.\n\nThe Assembly Energy committee \"has jurisdiction over legislation related to energy availability and sources, policy and planning, conservation, and electric and gas rate-making in New York State.\" This includes any amendments to N.Y. Energy Law and Public Service Law. It has concurrent jurisdiction over the authorities and agencies dealing with energy, including NYSERDA, the Long Island Power Authority, Department of Environmental Conservation, and the Power Authority of the State of New York.\n\nThe state has enacted, in 2007, a number of recent laws to control carbon emissions. There is also a new Article 13 of N.Y. Energy Law, the State Green Building Construction Act, in 2008. This new Act is composed of four sections, including N.Y. Energy L. § 13–107, \"Agency green building construction requirements.\" They also passed a law to establish a \"Green Residential Building Grant Program,\" which directs NYSERDA to grant moneys subject to LEED. The LEED status of a recently built state authority convention center - the Albany Capital Center - is unknown. Finally, the legislature also enacted three closely related laws to expand \"Net metering\" of alternative energy generating systems.\n\nSenator Kevin Parker, the past Senate committee chair, stated that he had been \"aiming for a long time\" to work on energy and environmental issues. Among the issues he wanted to address are \"energy generation and transmission... public transportation... [and] Renewable energy... \" Assemblyman Cahill noted equally \"ambitious goals for renewable power and energy conservation,\" especially by funding the State Energy Plan, \"mass transit\", repowering \"Old hydro facilities\" and modernizing the states \"electric grid.\" NYSERDA president Francis Murray, Jr. echoed that it was \"the most ambitious clean-energy program in the nation.\"\n\nThe Power New York Act, enacted in July 2011, re-establishes the Article 10 energy plant siting law, which had expired (sunsetted) over seven years prior. The new law had overwhelmingly favorable editorial support.\n\nIn 2012, several items on Governor Andrew Cuomo's agenda were done:\n\nFor 2012 income taxes, taxpayers can now take a credit for \"Solar Energy System Equipment Credit\" by using Form IT-255.\n\nIn 2013, in response to Hurricane Sandy, the 2013 LIPA Reform Act was passed. This bill shifted operation of LIPA's electric transmission and distribution system from National Grid to PSEG-LI and also allowed for greater review of LIPA's finances by the Public Service Commission. The Act has been criticized by the New York State Comptroller for increasing retail rates, increasing LIPA's debt, and decreasing consumer transparency.\n\nA 2016 bill to create tax incentives for geothermal energy systems, was vetoed by Governor Cuomo.\n\nIn Consolidated Laws, there are many sections that have cross-references to, or relate to, N.Y. Energy Law.\n\nWithin N.Y. Environmental Conservation Law are several articles relevant to energy, including the Mineral Resources laws, article 23. This is also called the N.Y. Oil, Gas, and Solution Mining Law, which includes permitting, fees, and related laws.\n\nThe state collects an effective rate of 24.4 cents per gallon tax on gasoline and gasohol (\"motor fuel\"), and 22.65 cents per gallon on diesel. The Empire State is tied with California for the highest combined gas taxes, at 67.7 cents per gallon.\n\nNew York collects one of the smallest amounts of revenue from extraction taxes of any state—only 5.8 percent of its overall sources. The state also has a \"highway use tax\".\n\nNew York also has a motor fuel tax. It requires a certification that the tax has been assumed or paid by the distributor. The state requires certain records to be kept.\n\nNew York has a statute that regulates the \"Recording of solar energy easements.\" It requires that such easements be in writing, signed, and acknowledged with the same formalities as recording other conveyances. It also requires, \"Any instrument creating a solar energy easement shall include ... (a) The vertical and horizontal angles, expressed in degrees, at which the solar energy easement extends over the real property ... (b) Any terms or conditions ... [and] (c) Any provisions for compensation of the owner of the property...\"\n\nThe state has an \"alternative fuels (tax) credit\" at N.Y. Tax Law § 187-b that applies to certain hybrid cars, against the franchise taxes in Tax Law §§ 183, 184, 185. It does \"not\" apply to any individual income tax.\n\nOther related sections of the N.Y. Consolidated laws include:\n\nThere are also at least two unconsolidated sections of law that refer to Energy Law, which allow for a credit against certain local taxes.\n\nThere is a body of case law concerning energy in New York, enough for NY Jur 2d to have a listing for \"Energy\", and case law on energy taxation.\n\nUnder New York law, both the New York Attorney General or a district attorney may prosecute alleged polluters who make oil spills.\n\nThe motor fuel excise tax is collected from a \"distributor\" – usually a wholesaler – even though the ultimate burden to pay the tax may be on a retailer or purchaser. There is a presumption of taxability, so taxing authorities can allow reasonably for only a 1% loss for \"evaporation and spillage\" in long-term storage tanks. A bus company, such as Greyhound bus, is considered a distributor for the purposes of the motor fuel excise tax. A retailer is liable for the amount of tax due bought from a supplier from New Jersey.\n\nThe issue of taxation of Native Americans for motor fuel has created a moderately large body of case law in itself. While the state can not impose excise taxes \"directly\" on \"Indians\", it can tax the sale of fuel to non-Indians even on Indian reservations. This statute, dictating the collection of gas and similar taxes, does not violate the Commerce clause. The law has also been upheld as not in violation of the Equal protection clause, based on the rational basis test.\n\nConservation easements in New York have been created by caselaw and private real estate contracts.\n\nGeneral energy regulations may be found at Title 9, Subtitle BB, of the \"New York Code of Rules and Regulations\" (N.Y.C.R.R.). Changes to the rules are published in the \"New York Register\".\n\nNew York regulation has \"allowed consumers and businesses to choose their own supplier\" of gas and electricity, in the hope that this will lower retail prices, as well as to spur the development of \"more innovative products.\" However, these energy choices have not saved the ultimate consumer very much, because the price of natural gas, and any energy produced from it, had fallen relatively low as of 2012. The news report cited studies by AARP, the Public Utility Law Project, and the Retail Energy Supply Association (RESA), \"an energy supplier trade group\", were made between 2010 and 2012. Only if consumers switch from oil to gas would they save much money.\n\nThe New York Public Service Commission holds public hearings regarding the permits for gas lines.\n\nThe New York Energy Highway is a project developed by Governor Andrew Cuomo, and announced in his 2012 state of the state address. The purpose of the initiative is \"to ensure that New York's energy grid remains the most advanced in the nation and to promote increased business investment in the state.\" A Task force was charged with \"its implementation and enlisting the private sector.\" The Task Force is co-chaired by NYPA CEO Gil Quiniones and New York State Department of Environmental Conservation commissioner Joseph Martens. In April 2012, the Task Force held a summit at Columbia University to explore the issues involved. They also called for more ideas through an administrative request process, which that lasted from April 11 through May 30, 2012. According to co-chair Quiniones, writing in the industry paper \"EnergyBiz\", the results were that 400 people attended the Energy Highway Summit, and 85 entities submitted over 100 suggestions and ideas for the Task Force.\n\nThe Energy Highway Blueprint is the Task Force's October 2012 report with 13 proposals, including investment of over $1 billion \"new electric transmission capacity [and] new renewable energy projects,\" the retrofitting of \"existing inefficient, high emission plants,\" the development of \"Smart Grid technologies,\" and conducting \"field studies of Atlantic Ocean offshore wind development potential.\"\n\nIn December of that year, Cuomo announced progress on the plan that included a $726 Million upgrade to the state's transmission network.\n\nIn early 2013, the Public Service Commission solicited comments and accepted a report filed by ConEd and the state Power Authority about the future of the Indian Point Nuclear Power Plant, in particular the permitting process. Cuomo has indicated that he is against the continued use of Indian Point. The October 2012 Blueprint called for alternatives to Indian Point, which was the only plant named specifically by his administration for closure and replacement. However, the Task Force has no administrative authority to close Indian Point. Furthermore, the Task Force's Blueprint is not directly linked to Cuomo's opposition to renewal of that plant's permit by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Nonetheless, in a December 2012 press release about the transmission upgrade funding, Cuomo noted in \"dictum\" that:\n\nThe Task Force identified two coal-operated energy plants' reliability issues, and are working with the Public Service Commission and two utilities, National Grid and NYSEG, on the matter. They also have worked on the \"key items\" of \"easing transmission congestion [and] expanding natural gas delivery\".\n\nOn April 23, 2013, Albany Law School will host a seminar at the New York State Capitol on the future of the State Energy Highway.\n\nAssemblyman Ronald Canestrari announced the expansion of New York's Home Energy Assistance Program (HEAP) \"to help additional households meet their home heating needs...\"\n\nIn his 2014 State of the State address, Governor Cuomo pushed for more renewable energy benefits. This resulted in NYSERDA's \"Renewable Heat NY\" that provides subsidies for wood pellet burners.\n\nThe chief regulator for the Energy Law is the \"Commissioner\" or \"president\" of the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (also called NYSERDA). The board of directors of NYSERDA includes—as a matter of law – several utility insiders, as well as \"ex officio\" commissioners. Richard Kauffman is chairman of the board, and John B. Rhodes has been President and CEO since September 2013.\n\nNYSERDA was created as a public benefit corporation under NY law.\n\nThe regulations governing NYSERDA may be found at Parts 500–506 of the Code of Rules and Regulations. There are procedures for minutes of meetings and approval of actions by the Governor pursuant to law. There are specific regulations for accessing public meeting records pursuant to Freedom of Information Acts. Generators of low-level radioactive waste must make reports to NYSERDA. Any \"action\" of the Authority is subject to the state Environmental Quality Review Act (SEQRA). Other regulations include provisions for prompt payment of accounts payable, a privacy policy, and the purchase of energy efficient products.\n\nNYSERDA funds a program, with the Farm Bureau, to assist farmers to make electricity from cow manure, or more formally, \"to install anaerobic digester gas-to-electric facilities on farms.\"\n\nNew York has an Independent System Operator, the New York Independent System Operator (NYISO). The NYISO is the non-profit quasi-governmental agency charged by New York with auctions of energy supplies. Specifically, the NYISO\nThe NYISO also organizes symposia on New York energy law. Robert Fernandez is the Interim President and Chief Executive Officer of the NYISO. The current chairperson of the board is Ave Bie.\n\nThe NYISO is subject to regulation by the legislature. The NYISO is also regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.\n\nBased on its 2016 Annual Report, the NYISO received $156 million in revenue from its Rate Schedule 1 tariff charge applied to market participants on a $/MWh basis throughout the year. It also received $ 5.46 million from planning studies revenue. The 2016 NYISO expenditures included $81.4 million for compensation, $23.3 million for professional fees and consultants, and $19.4 million for maintenance, software licenses, and facility costs. About $170 million worth of assets was listed as software developed for internal use prior to calculating accumulated depreciation. \n\nThe NYISO is governed by a system of committees - similar in many ways to the organization of Standard Oil and its trusts in the years 1879-1885. \n\nThe Management Committee's by-laws were last updated on March 13, 2013. The public may only attend sessions of the Management Committee in-person, and must register with the secretary beforehand. The public may not participate in the governance process. All motions to be acted on must receive a 58% vote to pass. Voting is conducted using a show-of-hands unless members prefer a roll call or secret ballot vote. All officer elections will be conducted by secret ballot voting. The five voting sectors of the Management Committee are Generation Owners, Other Suppliers, Transmission Owners, End-Use Consumers, and Public Power Entities. The mentioned voting sectors are allocated with 21.5%, 21.5%, 20%, 20%, and 17% of the total vote, respectively. A quorum of at least three sectors must be present for a vote. The Management Committee can enter into an Executive session upon a 58% vote during a meeting, or upon an anonymous request beforehand. In the Executive Session, non-voting ISO members, the FERC and the NYSPSC are excluded.\n\nThe New York State Reliability Council is a non-profit organization that provides the NYISO reliability specifications on an annual basis. These specifications impact the amount of resources that are required in the NYISO's capacity market. The council is governed by an executive committee of thirteen (13) members: six (6) from the state's transmission owner sector, one (1) from the generation owner sector, one (1) from the large consumers sector, (1) from the municipal and electric cooperative sector, and four (4) without affiliations to any wholesale market participants. In 2014, the NYSRC had a budget of $761,000.\n\nThe New York Public Service Commission is a government agency that regulates the various utilities of the state of New York.\n\nIn 2016, the Commission adopted a Clean Energy Standard, to assist in achieving the state's target of obtaining 50% of its electricity from renewable and nuclear sources by 2030, which will see customer bills increase to support these sources. A particular aim was to support three nuclear plants, Ginna, James A. FitzPatrick and Nine Mile Point that had become uneconomic; the support for nuclear is expected to cost $1 billion in the first two years.\n\nThe commission has employed and been influenced by an array of interesting personnel: a former Weather Underground member, political insiders, and industry insiders - including an at least one industry insider whose parent was an employee of the commission.\n\nThe regulations governing the Power Authority of the State of New York may be found at Parts 450–463 of the Code of Rules and Regulations.\n\nThe Power Authority's proposed contract to buy hydroelectric power from the Canadian province of Quebec has generated controversy. The Sierra Club, the Innu community, and the National Lawyers Guild are fighting to prevent the proposed contract, which would have to be approved by Governor Paterson under his regulatory authority.\n\nThe Power Authority has been criticized by scholars for \"missed opportunities\" in using its administrative powers.\n\nThe Long Island Power Authority owns the electric transmission and distribution infrastructure on a large portion of Long Island. Daily operations are managed by PSEG Long Island, a subsidiary of Public Service Enterprise Group.\n\nNew York has long taxed and regulated energy sources and utilities.\n\nIn the early 1930s, Governor Franklin Delano Roosevelt used the state's gasoline tax to fund farm to market roads.\n\nThe \"Fordham Environmental Law Journal\" hosted a panel about the siting of electric generators in New York City under New York energy law.\n\nClimatologist Michael Mann spoke at Union College in October 2012 about the public policy issues involved with climate change.\n\nThe New York State Bar Association offered a continuing legal education class in 2012 on \"Marcellus Shale: New Regulations and Challenges\", which is available as of February 2014 as an audio course. A panel of \"multidisciplinary faculty of professionals addresse[d] the new body of law being created in New York to address the substantial development that is expected in the Marcellus Shale region.\" NYSBA's environmental law section followed up in May 2014 with a legislative forum on the regulation of rail cars carrying shale oil through cities such as Albany.\n\nThe energy industry is represented by the \"Energy Association of New York\", which lobbies on behalf of the state's larger energy-producing corporations and utilities. Wholesale electric power suppliers of New York are represented by The Independent Power Producers of New York, Inc. (IPPNY) Large industrial electric consumers are represented by Multiple Intervenors. Electric utility companies are represented by New York Transco or by themselves. The law firm Whiteman Osterman & Hanna is known for having employed, Todd Howe, bagman for Joe Percoco. One of their senior counsel was a former chairman of the New York State Public Service Commission and is currently general counsel to the New York State Reliability Council.\n\nA total of 17 wind energy companies have agreed to a set of ethics guidelines, which will delineate the companies' relationships with employee, contractors, and local governments. Governor Andrew Cuomo announced that 14 companies had joined the \"Wind Industry Ethics Code\" in August 2009, joining three others who had signed on earlier, in 2008-2009.\n\nMany buildings in New York state have achieved high LEED status, which earns their owners grants or tax abatements, including the Empire State Building and the Hearst Tower.\n\nThe standards are actually promulgated by a non-governmental organization (NGO), the Green Building Certification Institute.\n\nThe myriad legal issues concerning hydrofracking in New York has spawned a whole body of law, with primary authorities such as case law, statutes, and zoning regulations, as well as secondary sources such as law review and newspaper articles, on this rapidly changing field of law.\n\nIn February 2012, two cases of first impression, \"Anschutz Exploration Corp. v. Town of Dryden\" and \"Cooperstown Holstein Corp. v. Town of Middletown\", dealt with the issue of whether towns in New York can use local zoning laws to ban hydrofracking, within their police powers, or whether such action would be preempted by N.Y. Environmental Conservation Law § 23-0303 (2).\n\nThe legal and political issues raised by these explosive cases were the subject of a seminar organized on February 28, 2012 by the Albany Law School.\n\nThe \"Anschutz\" case got the most publicity and analysis in the immediate aftermath, because it was decided a week earlier than the \"Cooperstown\" court. Opponents of hydrofacking \"emerged trimphant\" after winning \"Anschutz\". Justice Phillip R. Rumsey relied in part on cases from Colorado that allowed local governments to regulate gas drilling, as well as from Pennsylvania, which concerned the very same Marcellus shale that is being drilled in Upstate New York. \"Anschutz\" distinguished this zoning situation from a bonding requirement, which is a direct regulation of the industry that is preempted by the N.Y. Department of Environmental Conservation's permit fees and regulatory scheme.\n\nIn \"Cooperstown\", a farmer named Jennifer Huntington leased 400 acres of her land for natural drilling, and she sued after the town changed its zoning laws to ban fracking. This case has a similar outcome; the town of Middlefield won at the trial court level, in a decision by Acting Justice Daniel F. Cerio. An attorney at Earthjustice lauded the \"Cooperstown\" decision, while the attorney who had represented \"Anschutz\" criticized both decisions.\n\nSince both courts are within the Third Department of the Appellate Division, and they would be appealed, they were to be consolidated upon appeal. Attorneys for the town of Dryden indicated they are in the process of perfecting the appeal as of September 2012. While \"Albany Times-Union\" columnist Fred LeBrun noted that while opponents are expecting a win, \"plenty in our government\" predict a successful appeal, so he \"wouldn't bet either way.\" However, two bloggers noted that the appeals have not been perfected as of August 2012. Searches of the website for, and an inquiry into, the Third Department shows that neither losing party has perfected their appeals as of October 17, 2012.\n\nFurther complicating the appeals, Norse Energy has also become involved in the \"Anschutz\" case. Back in October 2011, Norse Energy put up their leases for sale, claiming the moratorium by Governor Paterson had hurt the international company's prospects. Instead, Norse bought Anschutz's leases, and thus would have to be replaced as lead plaintiff against the Town of Dryden. Norse Energy's attorneys appear to be arguing that a \"greater good\" will come about if they are allowed to drill despite the local government's opportunity.\n\nOn March 21, 2013, the Third Department issued their ruling in \"Matter of Norse Energy Corp. USA v. Town of Dryden\", upholding the decision of the N.Y. Supreme Court. For a unanimous court, Presiding Justice Karen A. Peters upheld the lower court's denial of intervenor status for the environmental group, DRAC, and the constitutionality of the Town of Dryden's zoning ordinance. The Court allowed Norse Energy to be substituted for Anschutz. \"As a preliminary matter,\" they approved \"Supreme Court's denial of DRAC's motion to intervene\", based on the group's failing to prove \"a substantial interest ... different from other residents of the Town.\" Rather, noting the Town could do a good job at defending its interests, instead granted \"amicus\" status to DRAC and a half dozen others. Citing the New York State Constitution and four New York Court of Appeals cases, the Third Department noted that the state's local governments have broad home rule powers under its state constitution. It agreed with the lower court that the local law is not pre-empted, either expressly or by implication.\n\nOn June 30, 2014, the New York Court of Appeals upheld the local zoning ordinances, as well as the lower court cases that had allowed them, in a 5-2 decision authored by Judge Victoria Graffeo.\n\nIn July 2012, Lenape Resources, a natural gas drilling company, threatened to sue state and local governments over a hydrofracking ban by the town of Avon.\n\nAlso in July 2012, Justice Ferris Lebous ruled in the Broome County, New York case of \"Jeffrey v. Ryan\" that, while the city of Binghamton has the right to enact a local regulation, they did not enact a proper moratorium.\n\nWhile those appeals were pending, the \"New York Times\" reported in mid-June 2012 that Governor Cuomo and his staff were deliberating on a plan to restrict hydrofracking to five counties in the southern tier of New York, along the Pennsylvania border, where the Marcellus shale is deepest and drilling is least likely to pollute well water supplies in those aquifers.\nDrilling would not be allowed in these areas:\nThe \"Albany Times Union\" the next day filed a front-page, above the fold story questioning the plan's leak as a \"trial balloon,\" which had quickly garnered both criticism and support.\n\nIn August 2012, LeBrun filed a column that a limited plan was moving forward to allow hydrofracking in the Southern Tier, which he characterized as the \"[e]nd of the anti-frack world.\" Wading through 60,000 comments, the New York Department of Environmental Conservation was looking at a \"ramp up\" period, allowing 50 wells in 2013, and 100 wells in 2014, and only in towns that want them.\n\nGovernor Cuomo's budget did not expect any revenues from hydrofracking in fiscal year 2012-2013. There was a study that indicates that New York lacks a state tax on gas production.\n\nJoseph Martens, the Commissioner of DEC, has overall responsibility for regulating all hydrofracking programs. Eugene Leff, his Deputy Commissioner for Remediation and Materials Management, has responsibility for \"Materials Management, Environmental Remediation and Mineral Resources\", which would include hydrofracking regulations, if any were to be released. Bradley Field is the Director for \"Management and regulation of mineral resource development [and] Oil & Gas Regulation ... [to] Oversee permitting, compliance and enforcement of all regulated wells in New York.\" All media and other press inquiries must go directly through Emily DeSantis, at Press Operations, who is the Department spokesperson and who issues all press releases. Leff was one of the panelists on NYSBA's 2012 seminar on \"Marcellus Shale: New Regulations and Challenges\".\n\nAs of early 2014, administrative inaction lead to what the Sierra Club called a \"de facto moratorium ... for new drilling of natural gas wells\" in the State \"using hydrofracking technology.\" Susan Lawrence, writing an open letter to the group, cited six reasons for the effective ban:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27956405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27956405", "title": "Office of Staff Legal Assistance", "text": "Office of Staff Legal Assistance\n\nThe UN General Assembly in December 2008 authorized the establishment of the Office of Staff Legal Assistance (OSLA) to strength \"professional legal assistance for staff\" to succeed the Panel of Counsel.<ref name=\"62/228\"></ref> OSLA has offices in New York, Addis Ababa, Beirut, Geneva and Nairobi.<ref name=\"62/228\"></ref>\n\nOSLA has permanent staff consisting of 10: Chief of Unit (P-5), one Legal Officer (P3), one Legal Officer (P-2) and three Legal Assistants (General Service) in New York, and one Legal Officer(P-3) each in Addis Ababa, Beirut, Geneva and Nairobi.<ref name=\"62/228\"></ref> In addition it employs lawyers paid for by contributions by staff members. The OSLA staff is expected to regulate the \"activity of internal and external individuals providing legal assistance to staff to ensure their independence and impartiality\" <ref name=\"62/228\"></ref> \n\nOSLA is expected to provide legal assistance to staff, including summary legal advice; advice and representation during informal dispute resolution including formal mediation; assistance with the management evaluation review and during the disciplinary process; and representation of staff before the Dispute and Appeals Tribunals. \n\nDuring 2013, OSLA represented staff members in the UNDT in 71, and 34 out of the 125 cases of appeal judged by UNAT. \n\nThe highest number of cases by nationality that OSLA represented in 2013 were: US 41; Russian federation 29; Kenya 19: United Kingdom 12; France 11; Liberia 13; Germany and China 10 each. Amongst the larger countries the fewest cases overseen by OSLA were from India and Brazil had just 1. \n\nIn 2013, OSLA handled 448 cases from male staff members and 314 from female staff members, about 41 and 59 percent respectively. \n"}
{"id": "3130820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3130820", "title": "Open Invention Network", "text": "Open Invention Network\n\nOpen Invention Network (OIN) is a patent non-aggression community that supports freedom of action in Linux as a key element of open source software. OIN acquires patents and licenses them royalty-free to its community members who, in turn, agree not to assert their own patents against Linux and Linux-related systems and applications.\n\nBased in Durham, NC, the company was founded on November 10, 2005 by IBM, Novell, Philips, Red Hat, and Sony. NEC subsequently became a Member. In December 2013, Google became a Member. In July 2016, it was announced that Toyota became a Member. On October 10, 2018, Erich Andersen announced that Microsoft joined as a licensee. Canonical and TomTom are Associate Members. Keith Bergelt is the chief executive of the company. Bergelt had previously served as President and CEO of Paradox Capital, LLC\n\nOpen Invention Network has more than 1,300 U.S. and international patents and patent applications. It holds the Commerce One Web services patents (previously acquired by Novell for $15.5 million), which cover several fundamentals of current business-to-business e-commerce practice. OIN's founders intend for these patents to encourage others to join, and to discourage legal threats against Linux and Linux-related applications. As of October 2018, OIN had more than 2,650 community members (licensees).\n\nThe list of key applications considered by OIN, according to Red Hat's Mark Webbink, includes Apache, Eclipse, Evolution, Fedora Directory Server, Firefox, GIMP, GNOME, KDE, Mono, Mozilla, MySQL, Nautilus, OpenLDAP, OpenOffice.org, Open-Xchange, Perl, PostgreSQL, Python, Samba, SELinux, Sendmail, and Thunderbird.\n\nOn March 26, 2007, Oracle licensed OIN's portfolio, thus agreeing not to assert patents against the GNU/Linux-based environment, including competitors MySQL and PostgreSQL when used as part of a GNU/Linux system. Oracle exercised a Limitation Election on March 29, 2012. On August 7, 2007, Google also joined OIN as a licensee. On October 2, 2007, Barracuda Networks joined OIN as a licensee. On March 23, 2009 TomTom joined OIN as a licensee. In May 2011, the European Open Source software manufacturer Univention joined OIN as a licensee.\n\nIn early September 2009, Open Invention Network acquired 30 patents, from Allied Security Trust, another defensive patent management organization, that had been acquired from Microsoft through a private auction. If the patents had been acquired by patent trolls, they might have caused financial obstacles to Linux developers, distributors and users. OIN was able to avert this issue with the patent acquisition.\n\nOn 10 October, 2018, Microsoft joined the Open Invention Network community despite holding more than 60,000 patents.\n\nOpen Invention Network has three levels of participation, each of which helps to promote open source as a modality for invention and ensure ongoing freedom of action for GNU/Linux community members:\n\n\nOn June 22, 2010, OIN announced a new Associate Member program and the recruitment of Canonical (previously an OIN licensee) as its first associate member. The announcement drew criticism from anti-software-patent activist and a European lobbyist Florian Müller, who had previously criticized the OIN for a lack of transparency and for defining arbitrarily the scope of the patent protection it offers. Florian Mueller's credibility in attacking OIN has been called into question due to his paid relationship with corporate sponsors.\n\nOIN encourages practices that eliminate low-quality patents—the foodstuff of aggressive strategics and patent trolls. Specifically, OIN encourages the Linux and open source communities to become active in:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18441492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18441492", "title": "Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women", "text": "Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women\n\nThe Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (OP-CEDAW) is an international treaty which establishes complaint and inquiry mechanisms for the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW). Parties to the Protocol allow the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women to hear complaints from individuals or inquire into \"grave or systematic violations\" of the Convention. The Protocol has led to a number of decisions against member states on issues such as domestic violence, parental leave and forced sterilization, as well as an investigation into the systematic killing of women in the Mexican city of Ciudad Juárez, Chihuahua.\n\nThe Protocol was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 6 October 1999, and in force from 22 December 2000. As of September 2017, the Protocol has 80 signatories and 109 parties.\n\nIn 1979, the United Nations General Assembly adopted the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW). The Convention outlawed discrimination against women, but did not include any mechanism by which this prohibition could be legally enforced.\n\nAn individual complaints mechanism was suggested during the original drafting of CEDAW, but was rejected at the time. Fifteen years later, the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action of the 1993 World Conference on Human Rights suggested that new procedures were needed to implement the Convention, and suggested a \"right of petition\". An independent expert group produced a draft in 1994, containing a complaint procedure and an inquiry procedure, and this was adopted for further study by the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women in early 1995. The idea of an Optional Protocol was further endorsed by the Fourth World Conference on Women in 1995, which called for \"the elaboration (of) a draft optional protocol to the Women's Convention that could enter into force as soon as possible.\"\n\nIn March 1996 the Commission on the Status of Women established an open-ended working group to produce a formal draft. This reported back after three years of deliberation in early 1999. The Optional Protocol was adopted by the UN General Assembly on 6 October 1999.\n\nThe Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women outlaws discrimination on the basis of gender, and obliges its parties to repeal discriminatory laws and guarantee equality in the fields of health, employment, and education. The Optional Protocol is a subsidiary agreement to the Convention. It does not establish any new rights, but rather allows the rights guaranteed in the Convention to be enforced.\n\nArticles 1–7 create an individual complaints mechanism similar to those of the First Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Article 14 of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination. Parties agree to recognise the competence of the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women to consider complaints \"by or on behalf of\" individuals or groups who claim their rights under the Convention have been violated. If a complaint is submitted on behalf of a victim, then this requires their consent, unless the submitter can justify acting without it. What constitutes \"justification\" in such a case is up to the Committee. The ability for complaints to be submitted on behalf of victims is seen as vital in allowing NGOs such as women's organizations and human rights groups to use the Protocol to enforce the Convention.\n\nComplainants must have exhausted all domestic remedies, and anonymous complaints and complaints referring to events which occurred before the country concerned joined the Optional Protocol are not permitted. The Committee can request information from and make recommendations to a party, though these are not binding.\n\nArticles 8–10 create an inquiry mechanism. Parties may permit the Committee to investigate, report on and make recommendations on \"grave or systematic violations\" of the Convention. The Committee may invite the relevant party to respond and inform it of any measures taken as a result of such an inquiry, either directly or through the normal reporting process under the Convention. Parties may opt out of this obligation on signature or ratification, but only Bangladesh, Belize, Colombia, Cuba and Tajikistan have done so.\n\nArticle 11 requires parties to ensure that those complaining under the Optional Protocol are not subjected to ill-treatment or intimidation.\n\nArticle 13 requires parties to inform their citizens about the Convention, the Optional Protocol, and the rulings of the Committee, so as to facilitate complaints.\n\nArticles 12 and 14 govern the procedure and reporting of the Committee in handling complaints.\n\nArticles 15–21 govern ratification, entry into force, and amendment of the Optional Protocol.\n\nA number of parties have made reservations and interpretative declarations to their application of the Protocol. Bangladesh, Belize and Colombia have exercised their right under Article 10 of the Protocol not to recognise the jurisdiction of the Committee to investigate \"grave or systematic violations\" of the Convention. Colombia declares that neither the Protocol nor the Committee can require it to decriminalise \"offences against life or personal integrity\".\n\nNot every state which is a party to CEDAW is a party to the Protocol, and several major states still remain outside the Protocol. The United States has not become a signatory because it has not yet ratified CEDAW. Japan does not participate in any of the individual communications mechanisms for human rights treaties, but is currently considering joining while observing how these procedures are functioning. China is currently \"studying the problem of accession to\nthe Optional Protocol\".\n\nThe Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women has considered eleven complaints against seven countries since the Optional Protocol came into force, on subjects such as domestic violence, division of property, forced sterilization and parental leave. Six complaints were rejected for lack of jurisdiction or because the complainants had not exhausted all domestic remedies. The other five decisions are summarised below:\n\nIn 2005, in the case of \"A.T. v. Hungary\", the Committee ruled that Hungary had violated numerous articles of the Convention by failing to adequately protect women against domestic violence. It recommended that the complainant be immediately protected from her abusive former partner, and that Hungary improve its handling of domestic violence cases and immediately adopt the Committee's previous recommendation for a law allowing protection and exclusion orders. The recommendations were implemented by the time of Hungary's sixth periodic report to the Committee in 2006.\n\nIn 2006, in the case of \"Dung Thi Thuy Nguyen v. The Netherlands\", the Committee expressed concerns about aspects of parental leave provisions in The Netherlands. It recommended the Dutch government collect further information on the number of women combining part-time salaried employment with self-employment, and review the law if this revealed that a significant number of women were disadvantaged.\n\nIn 2006, in the case of \"A.S. vs Hungary\", the Committee ruled that the forced sterilization of a Romani woman in Hungary violated the Convention. It recommended compensating the complainant for the breach of her rights, a full review of legislation surrounding informed consent in cases of sterilisation to ensure it complied with international human rights standards, and ongoing monitoring of Hungarian medical facilities to ensure that any changes were put into practice.\n\nIn 2007, in the cases of \"Şahide Goekce (deceased) v. Austria\" and \"Fatma Yildirim (deceased) v. Austria\", the Committee ruled that the Austrian government was failing to protect women from domestic violence. It recommended strengthening the implementation and monitoring of existing domestic violence laws and greater training for police.\n\nThe Committee has also conducted one inquiry into \"grave or systematic violations\" under Article 8, in relation to the systematic killing of women in the Mexican city of Ciudad Juárez, Chihuahua. This found \"serious lapses in compliance\" by the Mexican government and tolerance of severe and systematic abuses of women's rights. The Committee recommended the involvement of federal as well as state authorities in the investigation of the murders, the punishment of negligent or complicit officials and those involved in the persecution of victims' relatives, and increased violence prevention plans.\n\nThe impact of an international treaty can be measured in two ways: by its acceptance, and by its implementation. On the first measure, the Optional Protocol has gained widespread international acceptance. Most major states are parties, and the protocol is the second most-accepted enforcement mechanism after the First Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.\n\nOn the second measure, the number of complaints dealt with by the committee has been limited. A 2008 assessment for the UK government found that the protocol had hardly been used by NGOs as originally expected, that the reasoning of the Committee was unpredictable, and that it had not affected policy-making. It found that there had been some limited success in highlighting the importance of effective policies to protect women from domestic violence and forced sterilization, but that outside these areas, the protocol \"has not led to a breakthrough in advancing women's rights.\" It concludes that unless greater efforts are made to highlight awareness of the Optional Protocol and build trust in the rulings of the Committee, the complaints mechanism will remain under-utilized.\n\nThe protocol has been criticised by legal academics such as Bal Sokhi-Bulley and feminists such as Catharine MacKinnon who view the complaints mechanism as difficult, lengthy, and lacking transparency. The voluntary nature of the protocol and the non-binding nature of its \"recommendations\" are seen as key limits on its effectiveness. Despite this, these critics tend to view the protocol as a valuable, if flawed, instrument for realizing women's rights.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42001646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42001646", "title": "Plant Variety Protection Act of 1970", "text": "Plant Variety Protection Act of 1970\n\nThe Plant Variety Protection Act of 1970 (PVPA), 7 U.S.C. §§ 2321-2582, is an intellectual property statute in the United States. The PVPA gives breeders up to 25 years of exclusive control over new, distinct, uniform, and stable sexually reproduced or tuber propagated plant varieties. A major expression of plant breeders' rights in the United States, the PVPA grants protection similar to that available through patents, but these legal schemes differ in critical respects. The PVPA should not be confused with plant patents, which are limited to asexually reproduced plants (not including tuber propagated plants).\n\nThe PVPA confers a limited period of legal control to breeders of sexually reproduced or tuber propagated plant varieties. In order to be eligible for a certificate under the PVPA, a plant variety must satisfy four requirements. First, it must be \"new\", in the sense that propagating or harvested material has not been sold or otherwise disposed of for purposes of exploitation for more than one year in the United States, or more than four years in any foreign jurisdiction (or six years in the case of a tree or vine). Second, the variety must be \"distinct\"—that is, clearly distinguishable from any other publicly known variety. Distinctness may be based on one or more identifiable morphological, physiological, or other characteristics, including commercially valuable characteristics affecting activities such as milling and baking (in the case of wheat). Third, the variety must be \"uniform\", in the sense that any variations are describable, predictable, and commercially acceptable. Finally, the variety must be \"stable\", in the sense that the variety, when reproduced, will remain unchanged with regard to its essential and distinctive characteristics within a reasonable degree of commercial reliability.\n\nA plant variety certificate gives the breeder the right to exclude others from selling the variety, or offering it for sale, or reproducing it, or importing it, or exporting it, or using it in producing (as distinguished from developing) a hybrid or different variety. The term of protection runs 20 years from the certificate's date of issue, or 25 years in the case of a tree or vine.\n\nUnlike the Patent Act of 1952, the PVPA contains three exemptions that significantly limit the scope of the plant breeder's exclusive right. First, the PVPA's provision safeguarding the \"public interest in wide usage\" allows the United States Department of Agriculture to declare an otherwise protected variety open on the basis of equitable remuneration to the owner, upon a finding that no more than two years of compulsory licensing of a protected variety is necessary in order to insure an adequate supply of fiber, food, or feed and that the owner is unwilling or unable to meet public demand at a price which may reasonably be deemed fair. Second, the PVPA's \"research exemption\" declares that the use and reproduction of a protected variety for plant breeding or other bona fide research shall not constitute infringement.\n\nThe PVPA's third exemption permits a farmer to save seed from protected varieties and to use such saved seed in the production of a crop without infringement. Prior to 1994, this exemption also allowed farmers to sell such saved seed to others without infringement. Asgrow Seed Company sued Denny and Becky Winterboer over the scope of this exemption. Asgrow won at District Court, and then lost at the Court of Appeals. The scope of the exemption to sell seeds was confirmed and defined by the 1995 Supreme Court decision in \"Asgrow Seed Co. v. Winterboer\", 513 U.S. 179 (1995). In 1994, legislation to bring the PVPA into compliance with the 1991 Act of the UPOV Convention also included amendments that eliminated the exemption for sales, but continued to allow farmers to save and replant seed on their own farms without infringement.\n\nPlant variety certificates should not be confused with plant patents. The Plant Variety Protection Act (PVPA) and the Plant Patent Act of 1930 provide protection based on different types of plant reproductive strategies. The PVPA, which authorizes plant variety protection certificates, protects sexually reproduced and tuber propagated plants, whereas the Plant Patent Act, which authorizes plant patents, is limited to asexually reproduced plants, excluding tuber propagated plants. However, the same plant may be protected under both the Plant Variety Protection Act and the Plant Patent Act of 1930. The most appropriate means of protection may be decided by the applicant based on the applicant's business requirements.\n\nA plant may also be eligible for protection under the Patent Act of 1952, as long as patentability requirements are met. Additionally, the same plant may be protected by a utility patent as well as a plant variety protection certificate and/or a plant patent. The landmark Supreme Court decision of \"Diamond v. Chakrabarty\", 447 U.S. 303 (1980), suggested the possibility of securing utility patents on plants previously thought eligible solely for protection under the PVPA. Two decades later, in the 2001 decision of \"J.E.M. Ag Supply, Inc. v. Pioneer Hi-Bred International, Inc.\", 534 U.S. 124 (2001), the Court conclusively held that sexually reproduced plants eligible for protection under the PVPA are also eligible for utility patents.\n\nThe Plant Variety Protection Act represents the United States' effort to comply with the \"Union pour la Protection des Obtentions Végétales\" (also known as UPOV or the International Union for the Protection of New Varieties of Plants), an international treaty concerning plant breeders' rights. The PVPA likewise constitutes part of the United States' compliance with the Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights annex of the World Trade Organization treaty, also known as TRIPs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6843649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6843649", "title": "Position of trust", "text": "Position of trust\n\nA position of trust is any position that requires its holder to enjoy the trust of those who elected or chose the holder. It is often used in a more restricted sense defined by an organization or by legislation.\n\nAccording to one common definition, it is any position that has responsibility for \"cash, keys, or kids (minors)\". The concept of \"keys\" refers to security, including IT security and management.\n\nAccording to another common definition, it is any position of authority over another person or within an organization, for example as a supervisor.\n\nCrimes committed by a person in a position of trust may be penalized more severely under the law, and those wishing to occupy positions of trust may be subject to special restrictions such as background checks.\n\nA typical position of trust at the personal level involves child custody or power of attorney. The same would be true for the five standard professions; medicine, law, finance, education and engineering. Any regulated profession dealing with the health and safety of others usually requires certification and licensing and would be a position of trust. The same would be true in the hierarchy of relationships involved in education, employment, financial matters and government.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Sexual Offences Act 2000 prohibits a person in a position of trust from performing sexual acts with someone who cannot consent, which includes minors and \"very vulnerable people\". This is primarily used for the protection of young people who are above the age of consent but under the age of 18 and for the protection of people with mental disabilities. Only after a person is no longer in a position of trust may they pursue a sexual relationship with a person previously entrusted to them. Similarly, molestation by a person in a position of trust is also a criminal offence in Singapore punishable by imprisonment.\n\nIn the Netherlands, incest itself is not prosecutable, but if an adult commits incest with a family member that is a minor, the adult can be prosecuted for abusing his/her position of trust. The adult family member does not have to be biologically related to the minor to be prosecutable for this offence. The relevant legislation also applies to adults who are family members only by marriage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22136400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22136400", "title": "Production quota", "text": "Production quota\n\nA production quota is a goal for the production of a good. It is typically set by a government or an organization, and can be applied to an individual worker, firm, industry or country. Quotas can be set high to encourage production, or can be used to restrict production to support a certain price level.\n\nQuotas, like other trade restrictions, are typically used to benefit the producers of a good at the expense of consumers in that economy. Possible effects include corruption (bribes to increase a quota allocation) or smuggling (concealed actions to exceed a quota). Quotas are considered to be less economically efficient than tariffs, which in turn are less economically efficient than free trade.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33984703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33984703", "title": "Protection of Plant Varieties and Farmers' Rights Act, 2001", "text": "Protection of Plant Varieties and Farmers' Rights Act, 2001\n\nThe Protection of Plant Variety and Farmers Right Act, 2001 (PPVFR Act) is an Act of the Parliament of India that was enacted to provide for the establishment of an effective system for protection of plant varieties, the rights of farmers and plant breeders, and to encourage the development and cultivation of new varieties of plants. This act received the assent of the President of India on the October 30, 2001.\n\nThe PPV&FR Act, 2001 was enacted to grant intellectual property rights to plant breeders, researchers and farmers who have developed any new or extant plant varieties. The Intellectual Property Right granted under PPV&FR Act, 2001 is a dual right – one is for the variety and the other is for the denomination assigned to it by the breeder. The rights granted under this Act are heritable and assignable and only registration of a plant variety confers the right. Essentially Derived Varieties (EDV) can also be registered under this Act and it may be new or extant. Farmers are entitled to save, use, sow, re-sow, exchange or sell their farm produce including seed of a registered variety in an unbranded manner. Farmers' varieties are eligible for registration and farmers are totally exempted from payment of any fee in any proceedings under this Act. The period of protection for field crops is 15 years and for trees and vines is 18 years and for notified varieties it is 15 years from the date of notification under section 5 of Seeds Act, 1966. Annual fee has to be paid every year for maintaining the registration and renewal fee has to be paid for the extended period of registration. Farmers can claim for compensation if the registered variety fails to provide expected performance under given conditions. The rights granted under this Act are exclusive right to produce, sell, market, distribute, import and export the variety. Civil and criminal remedies are provided for enforcement of breeders' rights and provisions relating to benefit sharing and compulsory licence in case registered variety is not made available to the public at reasonable price are provided. Compensation is also provided for village or rural communities if any registered variety has been developed using any variety in whose evolution such village or local community has contributed significantly. The procedural details and modes of implementing this Act are provided in PPV&FR Rules, 2003. In the present article, we are discussing some of the important legal provisions of this Act along with some of the case studies.\n\nAccording to sec 2(c), \"breeder\" means a person or group of persons or a farmer or group of farmers or any institution which has \"bred, evolved or developed any variety.\"\n\nAccording to sec 2(k), \"farmers\" means any person who –\n\nThe community of farmers who have engaged in conservation, improvement and preservation of genetic resources of economic plants and their wild relatives particularly in areas identified as agro-biodiversity hotspots are awarded annually from Gene Fund. The name of the award is Plant Genome Saviour Community Award and the amount is INR 10,00,000 for each community. A maximum of five awards are conferred in a year.\n\nThe Authority also confers Plant Genome Savior \"Farmer Reward\" and \"Farmer Recognition\" to the farmers engaged in the conservation of genetic resources of landraces and wild relatives of economic plants and their improvement through selection and preservation and the material so selected and preserved has been used as donors of gene in varieties registerable under the PPV&FR Act, 2001 (53 of 2001) . There shall be maximum of 10 rewards (citation, momento and cash of INR to be decided by Central Government) and 20 recognitions (consisting of a citation and memento and cash award to be decided by Central Government) in a year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39572340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39572340", "title": "Royal Decree of 27 July 1887", "text": "Royal Decree of 27 July 1887\n\nThe Royal Decree of 27 July 1887 was a rule of law signed by King Leopold II of Belgium, the then private owner of the Congo Free State, providing for the establishment of a monetary system for the free state and the introduction of a local currency, the Congolese franc, with a value set at 1/3100 of a kilo of 90% pure gold.\n\nThis decree was promulgated exactly 5 months after the \"Royal Decree of 27 February 1887 relating to commercial entities\", which provided a legal operating framework for establishing companies to perform acts of a commercial nature, and the actions taken by these companies, while conducting business in the Congo Free State. \n\nThe present commercial law of the Democratic Republic of Congo can trace its origins to this decree.\n"}
{"id": "7014562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7014562", "title": "Rudolf Schlesinger", "text": "Rudolf Schlesinger\n\nRudolf Berthold Schlesinger (1909 – November 10, 1996) was a German American legal scholar known for his contributions to the study of comparative law, a discipline that examines the differences and similarities among the legal systems of nations.\n\nSchlesinger was the son of a lawyer and a relative of bankers. He was born in Munich, Bavaria, Germany, in 1909. His father was American, which is why Schlesinger acquired dual citizenship per jus sanguinis. As he was growing up, he exhibited especial intellectual abilities, but also a great interest for sports and art. He completed his doctoral thesis on commercial law, earning his degree in law from the University of Munich in 1933. He then worked as a lawyer for the bank that years before had been founded by his predecessors. He developed a background in finance while also helping German Jews transfer their assets out of the country in order to escape Nazi persecution.\n\nIn 1938, with the Nazi party gaining strength, Schlesinger, who was Jewish, emigrated to the United States. Soon, he enrolled in the Columbia Law School, where he became the first, and perhaps the only, non native English speaking editor of the Columbia Law Review. He graduated first in his class in 1942 and started working as an assistant to a New York Supreme Court judge. He briefly worked at Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy, a renowned New York law firm; however, in 1948 he moved into academia and started teaching in the Cornell Law School, where he later became a professor of comparative law.\n\nHe also wrote important studies of civil procedure and international business transactions and directed a ten-year international research project on contracts.\n\nIn 1975 he left, as Professor Emeritus, and became a professor in the University of California's Hastings College of the Law, until his retirement in 1995. Schlesinger and his wife, Ruth Hirschland Schlesinger, both died on November 10, 1996, in San Francisco, California, an apparent double suicide.\n\nSchlesinger had an enormous impact on U.S. and European legal studies. Foremost was his pioneering 1950 book on comparative law, \"Comparative Law: Cases, Text, Materials\", which ultimately influenced two generations of readers. His arrival in the field during the early 1950s helped to give it both greater legitimacy and popularity in legal academia. His book \"Comparative Law: Cases, Texts, Materials\" (1950), written while Schlesinger taught at Cornell University, became a staple of law school curricula and entered its fifth edition in the late 1990s.\n\nIn 1955, working on behalf of the New York Law Revision Commission, he examined the important question of whether to codify commercial law. His study, \"Problems of Codification of Commercial Law\" (1955), paralleled the development of the Uniform Commercial Code. In 1995 the American Journal of Comparative Law published a tribute to Schlesinger that praised the brilliance of his \"heroic work\" and noted that its influence went beyond U.S. law: \"Today's serious efforts to find and develop a unitary European private law is, consciously or unconsciously, a continuation of Schlesinger's effort.\"\nIn the 1960s Schlesinger launched the Cornell project on \"Formation of Contract. A Study on the common core of legal systems\" which deployed the entirely original methodology of the \"factual approach\" in comparative legal scholarship. The result of the Cornell seminars is a two-volume book published by Oceana in 1968 under Schlesinger's editorship. In 1993 Schlesinger's successor at Hastings Ugo Mattei together with Italian comparativist Mauro Bussani launched the \"Common Core of European Private Law Project\" deploying the Cornell factual approach to study European contract, property and tort law. The results of the common core project that \"on the shoulders os Schlesinger\" involves some two hundred scholars from all over the world are published in an ongoing series at Cambridge University Press.\n\n"}
{"id": "18994037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18994037", "title": "Sand", "text": "Sand\n\nSand is a granular material composed of finely divided rock and mineral particles. It is defined by size, being finer than gravel and coarser than silt. Sand can also refer to a textural class of soil or soil type; i.e., a soil containing more than 85 percent sand-sized particles by mass.\n\nThe composition of sand varies, depending on the local rock sources and conditions, but the most common constituent of sand in inland continental settings and non-tropical coastal settings is silica (silicon dioxide, or SiO), usually in the form of quartz. The second most common type of sand is calcium carbonate, for example, aragonite, which has mostly been created, over the past half billion years, by various forms of life, like coral and shellfish. For example, it is the primary form of sand apparent in areas where reefs have dominated the ecosystem for millions of years like the Caribbean.\n\nSand is a non-renewable resource over human timescales, and sand suitable for making concrete is in high demand.\n\nThe exact definition of sand varies. The scientific Unified Soil Classification System used in engineering and geology corresponds to US Standard Sieves, and defines sand as particles with a diameter of between 0.074 and 4.75 millimeters. By another definition, in terms of particle size as used by geologists, sand particles range in diameter from 0.0625 mm (or  mm) to 2 mm. An individual particle in this range size is termed a \"sand grain\". Sand grains are between gravel (with particles ranging from 2 mm up to 64 mm by the latter system, and from 4.75 mm up to 75 mm in the former) and silt (particles smaller than 0.0625 mm down to 0.004 mm). The size specification between sand and gravel has remained constant for more than a century, but particle diameters as small as 0.02 mm were considered sand under the Albert Atterberg standard in use during the early 20th century. The grains of sand in Archimedes Sand Reckoner written around 240 BCE, were 0.02 mm in diameter. A 1953 engineering standard published by the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials set the minimum sand size at 0.074 mm. A 1938 specification of the United States Department of Agriculture was 0.05 mm. Sand feels gritty when rubbed between the fingers. Silt, by comparison, feels like flour).\n\nISO 14688 grades sands as fine, medium, and coarse with ranges 0.063 mm to 0.2 mm to 0.63 mm to 2.0 mm. In the United States, sand is commonly divided into five sub-categories based on size: very fine sand ( –  mm diameter), fine sand ( mm –  mm), medium sand ( mm –  mm), coarse sand ( mm – 1 mm), and very coarse sand (1 mm – 2 mm). These sizes are based on the Krumbein phi scale, where size in Φ = -logD; D being the particle size in mm. On this scale, for sand the value of Φ varies from −1 to +4, with the divisions between sub-categories at whole numbers.\nThe most common constituent of sand, in inland continental settings and non-tropical coastal settings, is silica (silicon dioxide, or SiO), usually in the form of quartz, which, because of its chemical inertness and considerable hardness, is the most common mineral resistant to weathering.\n\nThe composition of mineral sand is highly variable, depending on the local rock sources and conditions. The bright white sands found in tropical and subtropical coastal settings are eroded limestone and may contain coral and shell fragments in addition to other organic or organically derived fragmental material, suggesting sand formation depends on living organisms, too. The gypsum sand dunes of the White Sands National Monument in New Mexico are famous for their bright, white color. Arkose is a sand or sandstone with considerable feldspar content, derived from weathering and erosion of a (usually nearby) granitic rock outcrop. Some sands contain magnetite, chlorite, glauconite or gypsum. Sands rich in magnetite are dark to black in color, as are sands derived from volcanic basalts and obsidian. Chlorite-glauconite bearing sands are typically green in color, as are sands derived from basaltic lava with a high olivine content. Many sands, especially those found extensively in Southern Europe, have iron impurities within the quartz crystals of the sand, giving a deep yellow color. Sand deposits in some areas contain garnets and other resistant minerals, including some small gemstones.\n\nThe study of individual grains can reveal much historical information as to the origin and kind of transport of the grain. Quartz sand that is recently weathered from granite or gneiss quartz crystals will be angular. It is called grus in geology or \"sharp sand\" in the building trade where it is preferred for concrete, and in gardening where it is used as a soil amendment to loosen clay soils. Sand that is transported long distances by water or wind will be rounded, with characteristic abrasion patterns on the grain surface. Desert sand is typically rounded.\n\nPeople who collect sand as a hobby are known as arenophiles. Organisms that thrive in sandy environments are psammophiles.\n\n\nOnly some sands are suitable for the construction industry, for example for making concrete. Because of the growth of population and of cities and the consequent construction activity there is a huge demand for these special kinds of sand, and natural sources are running low. In 2012 French director Denis Delestrac made a documentary called \"Sand Wars\" about the impact of the lack of construction sand. It shows the ecological and economic effects of both legal and illegal trade in construction sand.\n\nSand's many uses require a significant dredging industry, raising environmental concerns over fish depletion, landslides, and flooding. Countries such as China, Indonesia, Malaysia and Cambodia ban sand exports, citing these issues as a major factor. It is estimated that the annual consumption of sand and gravel is 40 billion tons and sand is a US$70 billion global industry.\n\nWhile sand is generally non-toxic, sand-using activities such as sandblasting require precautions. Bags of silica sand used for sandblasting now carry labels warning the user to wear respiratory protection to avoid breathing the resulting fine silica dust. Safety data sheets for silica sand state that \"excessive inhalation of crystalline silica is a serious health concern\".\n\nIn areas of high pore water pressure, sand and salt water can form quicksand, which is a colloid hydrogel that behaves like a liquid. Quicksand produces a considerable barrier to escape for creatures caught within, who often die from exposure (not from submersion) as a result.\n\nManufactured sand (M sand) is sand made from rock by artificial processes, usually for construction purposes in cement or concrete. It differs from river sand by being more angular, and has somewhat different properties.\n\n"}
{"id": "36892151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36892151", "title": "Special Advocate", "text": "Special Advocate\n\nA Special Advocate is a lawyer, usually a barrister or advocate, sometimes a solicitor, who is appointed to represent the interests of a party in closed proceedings, i.e. proceedings from which that party has been excluded. Special advocates are generally prohibited from discussing any evidence that has been the subject of closed proceedings with the excluded party. They are most often used in the context of cases involving national security but have also been used in other matters, including parole board hearings and data protection claims.\n\nIn Canada Special advocates are lawyers independent of government and appointed by the Court to protect the interests of persons named in security certificates during the hearings from which persons named in certificates and their own lawyers are excluded. Special advocates are not, however, in a solicitor-client relationship with the person named in the certificate. Special advocates have the required government security clearance for accessing information which the government must keep confidential because its disclosure would be injurious to national security or endanger a person's safety. Special advocates will be under strict obligations to maintain the confidentiality of that information.\n\nOn February 23, 2007, the Supreme Court of Canada ruled in Charkaoui that the security certificate provisions in the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act were unconstitutional because the process violated the rights of persons named in a certificate to a fair hearing. The Supreme Court of Canada suspended the declaration of invalidity for one year to give Parliament time to amend the security certificate legislation. The Government responded to Charkaoui with Bill C-3. This legislation adds a special advocate regime to security certificate and related proceedings under the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act. It attempts to strike a balance between protecting the rights of persons named in a certificate and ensuring the confidentiality of information which, if disclosed, would be injurious to national security or endanger a person's safety.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Special Advocates have been authorised either by statute or by precedent to appear in closed proceedings before the Special Immigration Appeals Commission, Proscribed Organisations Appeal Commission, Employment Tribunal, Northern Ireland Sentences Review Commission, Northern Ireland Life Sentences Review Commission or special security tribunal (as defined by Sections 90 to 92 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998.\n\nTwo special advocates were appointed in 2005 to represent Ahmed Zaoui, an Algerian asylum seeker who had been detained as a risk to national security, in a review carried out by the Inspector General of Intelligence and Security. The proceedings against Zaoui were subsequently withdrawn in 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "753661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=753661", "title": "Terry v. Ohio", "text": "Terry v. Ohio\n\nTerry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1 (1968), was a decision by the United States Supreme Court which held that the Fourth Amendment prohibition on unreasonable searches and seizures is not violated when a police officer stops a suspect on the street and frisks him or her without probable cause to arrest, if the police officer has a reasonable suspicion that the person has committed, is committing, or is about to commit a crime and has a reasonable belief that the person \"may be armed and presently dangerous.\"\n\nFor their own protection, after a person has been stopped, police may perform a quick surface search of the person’s outer clothing for weapons if they have reasonable suspicion that the person stopped is armed. This reasonable suspicion must be based on \"specific and articulable facts\" and not merely upon an officer's hunch. This permitted police action has subsequently been referred to in short as a \"stop and frisk,\" or simply a \"\"Terry\" frisk\". The \"Terry\" standard was later extended to temporary detentions of persons in vehicles, known as traffic stops; see Terry stop for a summary of subsequent jurisprudence.\n\nThe rationale behind the Supreme Court decision revolves around the understanding that, as the opinion notes, \"the exclusionary rule has its limitations.\" The meaning of the rule is to protect persons from unreasonable searches and seizures aimed at gathering evidence, not searches and seizures for other purposes (like prevention of crime or personal protection of police officers).\n\nChief Justice Warren's opinion for the Court began by reciting first principles. The Fourth Amendment protects \"people, not places\", against \"unreasonable searches and seizures\". The question the Court confronted was whether \"in all the circumstances of this on-the-street encounter\", Terry's reasonable expectation of privacy had been impermissibly invaded.\n\nThe procedure called \"stop and frisk\" was controversial. Police argue that they require a certain flexibility in dealing with quickly evolving and potentially dangerous situations that arise during routine patrol of the streets. On the other hand, those suspicious of giving the police broad investigatory power contended that the police should not be able to assert their authority over citizens without some specific justification upon intrusion into protected personal security, coupled with judicial oversight to ensure that the police do not routinely abuse their authority. For the Court, however, the question was not the propriety of the police actions in the abstract but the admissibility of the evidence obtained through that police action. \"In our system evidentiary rulings provide the context in which the judicial process of inclusion and exclusion approves some conduct as comporting with constitutional guarantees and disapproves other actions by state agents.\" For this purpose the exclusionary rule of \"Mapp v. Ohio\", , had evolved and been applied against both state and federal agents.\n\nThus the question was not whether the stop-and-frisk procedure was proper by itself, but whether the exclusionary rule was an appropriate deterrent of police misconduct during such encounters. In view of these concerns, the Court next asked whether it is \"always unreasonable for a policeman to seize a person and subject him to a limited search for weapons unless there is probable cause for an arrest.\"\n\nJustice White joined the opinion of the Court but suggested that\n\nWith regard to the lack of obligation to respond when detained under circumstances of \"Terry\", this opinion came to be regarded as persuasive authority in some jurisdictions, and the Court cited these remarks in dicta in \"Berkemer v. McCarty\", , at 439. However, in \"Hiibel v. Sixth Judicial District Court of Nevada\", , the Court held that neither of these remarks was controlling in a situation where a state law required a detained person to identify himself. \n\nJustice Douglas strongly disagreed with permitting a stop and search absent probable cause:\n\n\"Terry\" set precedent for a wide assortment of Fourth Amendment cases. The cases range from street stop-and-frisks to traffic stops in which pat-down searches could be conducted on the driver or passengers. In \"Michigan v. Long\", the Supreme Court ruled that car compartments could be constitutionally searched if an officer had reasonable suspicion that the suspect is armed and dangerous. Thus the compartments are viewed as an extension of the suspect's person. This is known as \"frisking the lunge area,\" as an officer may protect himself by searching any areas from which the suspect could grab a weapon.\n\nThe \"Terry\" doctrine was markedly extended in the 2004 case of \"Hiibel v. Sixth Judicial District Court of Nevada\", , in which the Supreme Court held that a state law requiring the suspect to identify himself during a \"Terry\" stop did not necessarily violate the Fourth Amendment prohibitions of unreasonable searches and seizures or the Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination (although potentially could if the citizen in question reasonably believed that such identification could be used to incriminate). The Court did not legalize this process in all states but instead left it up to the states to decide whether they would pass such laws. So far 24 states have passed such laws.\n\nThe Court most recently cited \"Terry v. Ohio\" in \"Arizona v. Johnson\". In that 2009 case, the Court ruled 9–0 in favor of further expanding \"Terry,\" granting police the ability to frisk an individual in a stopped vehicle if there is reasonable suspicion to believe the individual is armed and dangerous. This fulfills only the second prong of \"Terry\" (the first prong—reasonable suspicion that a crime has, is, or will be committed—is fulfilled by whatever traffic violation prompted the pull-over). According to \"Whren v. United States\", any traffic violation, no matter how small, is legitimate basis for a traffic stop.\n\nIn \"Heien v. North Carolina\", on a 8–1 decision in December 2014, the Supreme Court of the United States expanded the reasonable suspicion factor of the Terry stop to cover a police officer’s reasonable mistake of law that gives rise to \"reasonable suspicion\" that justifies a traffic stop under the Fourth Amendment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12741212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12741212", "title": "Title 47 CFR Part 97", "text": "Title 47 CFR Part 97\n\nIn the U.S., Part 97 is the section of Federal Communications Commission (FCC) rules and regulations that pertains to amateur radio and the conduct of amateur radio operators. It is a part of Title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR).\n\nPart 97 consists of six subparts (A through F) and two appendices.\n\nSubpart A contains fifteen sections, numbered 97.1–29.\n\nSubpart A defines a number of terms relevant to the provisions of Part 97, and establishes the amateur service as a \"voluntary, noncommercial communications service\" devoted to advancement of the amateur art, the skills associated with it, and the international goodwill that it brings, especially with regard to the provision of emergency communications. It also establishes the basic constraints and rights that pertain to amateur licensing and conduct, including licensing requirements and limitations on station equipment and power output.\n\nSubpart B contains eleven sections, numbered 97.101–121.\n\nSubpart B details the standards of communication conduct expected of amateur operators, including the types of transmissions authorized and prohibited by the FCC, limitations pertaining to third-party and international communications, and on-air station identification requirements.\n\nAmong other limitations, this section forbids the transmission of \"music using a phone emission,\" except incidentally during authorized rebroadcasting of signals from a U.S. government space station (typically communications from the Space Shuttle).\n\nSubpart C contains eleven sections, numbered 97.201–221.\n\nSubpart C details rules and regulations pertaining specifically to a number of special operating procedures, including auxiliary and repeater stations, message forwarding, communications between earth and space stations, telecommand and the transmission of coded telemetry data, and automatic station control.\n\nSubpart D contains nine sections, numbered 97.301–317.\n\nSubpart D sets forth all requirements pertaining to amateur radio frequency allocations, the emission modes allowed, and the technical standards according to which they may be used.\n\nSubpart E contains four sections, numbered 97.401–407.\n\nSubpart E supports the service of amateur radio operators in times of disaster by establishing basic standard operating procedures to use in case an emergency should occur. Primarily, it authorizes \"any\" use of radio technology for the \"immediate safety of human life and immediate protection of property,\" regardless of all other FCC regulations, when no alternative is available. It also establishes the Radio Amateur Civil Emergency Service (RACES), a civil defense communications service intended for activation in times of war or threat to national security.\n\nSubpart F contains thirteen sections, numbered 97.510–527.\n\nSubpart F lays out the examination and certification systems whereby amateur radio operators are licensed. This includes outlining the structure and conduct of Volunteer Examiner Coordinators (VECs), organizations that accredit and organize the volunteer examiners (VEs) who administer test elements to prospective licensees.\n\nPart 97 has two appendices:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29404891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29404891", "title": "Transport Integration Act 2010", "text": "Transport Integration Act 2010\n\nThe Transport Integration Act 2010 (the Act) is a law enacted by the Parliament of the State of Victoria, Australia. The Act is the prime transport statute in Victoria, having replaced major parts of the \"Transport Act 1983\", which was renamed as the \"Transport (Compliance and Miscellaneous) Act 1983\".\n\nThe purpose of the Transport Integration Act is to \"...create a new framework for the provision of an integrated and sustainable transport system in Victoria...\". The Act broadly seeks to unify all elements of the Victorian transport portfolio to ensure that transport and land use agencies work together towards the common goal of an integrated and sustainable transport system.\n\nIn essence, the Transport Integration Act sets out the policy framework for transport in Victoria and establishes and sets the charters of the key agencies who make decisions which affect the planning and operation of the State's transport system.\n\nOne commentator has opined that \"(T)he Act is a leading example of modern and progressive principles-based legislation. It marked a fundamental shift away from detailed, prescriptive rules to higher level guidance and more flexible outcomes.\"\n\nThe Transport Integration Act is administered by the Minister for Public Transport, the Hon Jacinta Allan MLA, and the Minister for Ports and Minister for Roads, the Hon Luke Donnellan MLA.\n\nThe policy area of the Act contains a vision, objectives and principles for the transport system in Victoria, making it clear that the transport system needs to be integrated and sustainable - in economic terms, in environmental terms and in social terms. The Act therefore establishes transport in Victoria as a triple bottom line issue.\n\nThe Act also consolidates and establishes most of the transport agencies in Victoria and applies its policy framework to those agencies and other non transport interface agencies whose planning and land use activities can have significant effects on the transport system.\n\nWhile comprehensive coverage of transport portfolio matters can be expected of a transport statute the most radical feature of the Transport Integration Act may be its reach into planning activities which are not administrated by transport agencies but which nonetheless can have a major impact on the transport system. Withington observed that \"(F) for the first time, the scope of the State's principal transport statute reaches beyond transport agencies to include \"interface bodies\" such as planning authorities and land managers\".\n\nThe Act also requires the development of a transport plan for Victoria and requires that the plan be periodically revised. It also requires transport agencies regulated by the Act to prepare corporate plans and to coordinate them with the central Department of Transport and other affected transport agencies.\n\nWithington observed that \"(T) the Act is designed to encourage people to think - in a structured way - about the impacts of their decisions on the transport system. It is detailed enough to provide clear direction, but also flexible enough to accommodate agencies' different roles and responsibilities and a wide range of different circumstances\".\n\nThe Transport Integration Act is divided into eight parts -\n\nThe coverage of the Act is broad and extends to all State-controlled transport activities including most land and water-based transport and some air transport activities.\n\nThe Act applies to most State transport agencies and their activities through its coverage of Victoria's \"transport system\". Accordingly, it applies to things such as -\n\n\n\"Transport system\" is defined widely to include not only system infrastructure and conveyances, but also such things as -\n\n\nThe Act's coverage of the transport system is therefore extensive. This occurs because \"(T) the (Act) recognises that a 21st century transport system should be conceived and planned as a single system performing multiple tasks rather than separate transport modes.\n\nThe Transport Integration Act also seeks to integrate land use and transport planning and decision-making by extending the framework to land use agencies whose decisions can have significant impact on transport.\n\nAccordingly, the Act can apply to the activities of a range of planning, land use and other agencies. Generally, the Transport Integration Act \"...provides that planning authorities must have regard to the policy framework when preparing a Planning Scheme Amendment...which is 'likely to have a significant impact on the planning system' \".\n\nThe Transport Integration Act has an overarching status in the hierarchy of Victoria's transport legislation. All other Victorian transport laws, including those relating to particular aspects of the regulation of trains, trams, roads, ports, transport projects and safety, are identified as \"transport legislation\" under the Act and are therefore captured by the framework and are subordinate to it.\n\nThe Act also sits above \"interface legislation\" in its application to interface bodies. That is, the Act captures the enabling legislation which creates and empowers the non transport agencies who have a significant impact on the transport system and requires those agencies to have regard to the key policy elements in the Act needed to guide sound transport and land use planning.\n\nThe transport decision makers and agencies established and empowered by the Transport Integration Act include -\n\n\nThe Act requires Victorian transport agencies - including the Director of Public Transport, the Public Transport Development Authority, VicRoads, the Port of Melbourne Corporation, VicTrack, V/Line and the Linking Melbourne Authority – to work collaboratively towards the common goal of an integrated and sustainable transport system.\n\nThe Act does not apply directly to the private entities contracted to provide metropolitan passenger rail and tram services in Victoria, nor does it apply to metropolitan and regional bus operators. However, State transport agencies must have regard to the framework under the Act when exercising statutory functions in relation to these private transport operators (including contract management).\n\nThe interface decision makers and agencies affected by the Transport Integration Act include -\n\n\nThe Act requires that the interface agencies, including land use agencies, take account of the new Act and its policy directions when making decisions that are likely to have a significant impact on the transport system.\n\nImportantly, the Transport Integration Act also supports and assists the development, implementation and updating of a transport plan for the State.\n\nThe centrepiece of the Transport Integration Act is the high level policy framework contained in Part 2. The key features of the policy framework are a vision for the transport system, six transport system objectives and seven decision making principles. The core of the policy framework is drawn from the principles of sustainability as applied to the transport sector. The framework recognises that transport is part of a broader policy goal of achieving sustainable development, both locally and globally.\n\nIn general, the policy framework in the Act adopts the core principles of sustainable development or sustainability and translates that policy into a contemporary and enforceable legislative form in a transport context.\n\nThe transport system objectives in the Transport Integration Act cover the following matters -\n\nThe objectives therefore draw heavily on the key sustainability concepts described above. Agencies must have regard to the objectives when they make decisions or exercise functions which are sourced back to the authority of the Act.\n\nThe objectives essentially describe the outcomes sought to be achieved by the scheme. The need for clear and consistent objectives in policy and legislation settings for transport in Victoria was recognised by both the Transport Legislation Review and the Victorian Competition and Efficiency Commission (VCEC), the latter as part of its final report on managing transport congestion in Victoria. VCEC observed that -\n\nVCEC commented on the failure of the previous central Victorian Government transport statute, the Transport Act 1983, to set out clear objectives for the transport system and transport agencies: \"...the Act does not include a statement of its purpose or objectives to guide interpretation and decision making. Notwithstanding the absence of express objectives in the Transport Act, this and other Acts state the legislative objectives and functions for the key government agencies involved in transport policy development and service delivery.\"\n\nVCEC went on to recommend the development of clear and coordinated objectives to apply across the transport portfolio: \"(H) having appropriate high level objectives that ‘cascade’ down into related objectives for each agency is a prerequisite for achieving the government’s desired outcomes for the transport sector. Such objectives can encourage agencies to work consistently to achieve these outcomes, and reduce the risk of inconsistent behaviour.\"\n\nThe decision making principles in the Transport Integration Act cover the following matters -\n\nThe decision making principles essentially describe the process elements which must be taken into account by agencies in pursuing the objectives of the scheme and ultimately, the vision for the transport system. For example, a transport decision which has impacts across all tiers of government - local, State and national - should have regard to an integrated decision making process where due regard is had for effects across all three tiers rather than concentrating on only one or two tiers.\n\nIn broad terms, transport agencies and interface agencies caught by the Act must have regard to the objectives and principles when exercising their powers and performing their functions. The framework recognises that many transport system decisions involve competing interests and that decisions are unlikely in many cases to satisfy all parties. This is inherent in the listing of a series of objectives and principles which involve deliberate overlap and tension and which can require careful thought to reconcile. As a result, the Act merely requires that agencies \"have regard\" to the matters - that is actively consider them - and does not attempt to prescribe particular outcomes in individual cases. In addition, the framework specifically provides that the weight to be given to each objective and principle in the Act is not prescribed by the scheme itself and instead is ultimately a matter to be determined by the relevant agency which is responsible for the decision.\n\nThe vision statement in the Act is drawn on in the purpose of the Transport Integration Act. The vision statement and transport system objectives are also relevant to the charters and therefore the legal powers of each transport agency established under the Act.\n\nEach transport agency is required to pursue its statutory object consistent with the vision and the objectives. By way of example, if a transport agency is considering establishing a new transport service such as a rail line or bus line and procuring new rolling stock or buses, it must explicitly turn its mind to the matters in Part 2 of the Act as early as the planning stages of such a project. Planning agencies have the same obligations.\n\nAdherence to the Act can generally be pursued through administrative law avenues including merits review in some cases. However, the Act does not create a civil cause of action.\n\nThe underlying policy for the Transport Integration Act was in development for some years before it was presented to the Victorian Parliament as a Bill for scrutiny, debate and passage.\n\nIn 2007, after several years work the Department of Transport released a discussion paper outlining a policy proposal for a new Transport Integration Bill for Victoria. An extensive stakeholder consultation process followed throughout Melbourne and regional Victoria. The \"Transport Legislation Review: Stakeholder Feedback Summary\" aimed to reflect the key views held by stakeholders. Released in 2008, it drew on formal submissions as comments made at workshops, forums and briefings during the community engagement program.\n\nThe two-year stakeholder and community consultation process informed the development of the Bill proposal, culminating in the release in July 2009 of the Policy Statement \"Towards an integrated and sustainable transport future: a new legislative framework for transport in Victoria\".\n\nThe policy areas of the Transport Integration Act provide an example of principles-based legislation. This type of legislation relies on broad principles to articulate the outcomes to be achieved by the regulated entities. The Australian Law Reform Commission has described this approach in the following terms -\n\nThe Act originated as the Transport Integration Bill. The Bill was introduced into the lower house of the Victorian Parliament (the Legislative Assembly) on 8 December 2009 by the Hon Lynne Kosky MP, the then Minister for Public Transport. Second reading for the Bill was moved on 10 December 2009.\n\nThe Bill was eventually debated and passed by the Legislative Assembly without opposition on 4 February 2010. The Bill was introduced immediately into the upper house of the Victorian Parliament (the Legislative Council) and second reading moved on the same day by the Hon Martin Pakula MLC who had succeeded Lynne Kosky as Minister for Public Transport in the period since the Bill's introduction.\n\nThe Transport Integration Bill was ultimately passed without opposition by the Legislative Council on 23 February 2010. The Bill then received the Royal Assent to become an Act on 2 March 2010.\n\nThe Transport Integration Act was subsequently proclaimed to commence on 1 July 2010.\n\nThe \"port corporations\", the Port of Melbourne Corporation, the Port of Hastings Corporation and the Victorian Regional Channels Authority were originally not included in the Bill proposal and were added later to the Transport Integration Act scheme by the Transport Legislation Amendment (Ports Integration) Bill 2010 (the Ports Integration Bill).\n\nThe Ports Integration Bill merged the Port of Melbourne Corporation and the Port of Hastings Corporation under a rebadged Port of Melbourne Corporation banner. The Ports Integration Bill was proclaimed to commence on 1 September 2010. This formally brought the Port of Melbourne Corporation and the Victorian Regional Channels Authority within the Transport Integration Act framework on that date.\n\nThe merger of the Port of Melbourne Corporation and the Port of Hastings Corporation has been reversed - see changes to the Act below.\n\nA number of significant amendments have already been made to the Transport Integration Act:\n\nThe \"Climate Change Act 2010\" amended the \"Transport Integration Act\" to amend the environmental sustainability objective in the transport system objectives of the Transport Integration Act. The amendment changed that objective by providing that the transport system should actively contribute to the reduction of the overall contribution of transport-related greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, the change require relevant agencies to have regard to preparing for and adapting to the challenges presented by climate change.\n\nThe Climate Change Act was passed on 3 September 2010, received royal assent on 14 September 2010 and commenced on 1 July 2011.\nThe Transport Legislation Amendment (Taxi Services Reform and Other Matters) Act 2011 amended the Transport Integration Act to create the Taxi Services Commission. The Commission was created as an inquiry body in first instance charged with conducting the Taxi Industry Inquiry, a major inquiry into the taxi industry and taxi services in Victoria, and then to become the ongoing taxi industry regulator in place of the current regulator, the Director of Public Transport and the Victorian Taxi Directorate.\n\nThe \"Transport Legislation Amendment (Public Transport Development Authority) Act 2011\" amended the \"Transport Integration Act\" to establish the Public Transport Development Authority, trading as Public Transport Victoria, and to make other related changes. The legislation partially commenced on 15 December 2011. Further parts of the amending legislation will be proclaimed in the future to provide for the full establishment of the PTDA and to abolish the agencies it replaces - the Director of Public Transport, the Transport Ticketing Authority and MetLink.\n\nThe \"Transport Legislation (Port of Hastings Development Authority) Act 2011\" amended the \"Transport Integration Act\" to reverse the merger of the Port of Melbourne Corporation and the Port of Hastings Corporation, which occurred in September 2010, and to establish a Port of Hastings Development Authority to oversee the development of the Port of Hastings as a competitor in container trade to the Port of Melbourne. The legislation was passed on 16 August 2011, and came into force on 1 January 2012.\n\nNicholas Low has observed that the transport policy directions of both Victoria and New South Wales have pursued \"integration\" from the start of the 21st century, particularly integrated planning for the various modes of transport and the integration of transport and land use planning. However, Victoria went further and remains alone among Australian jurisdictions in presenting these general policy directions to full Parliamentary scrutiny and entrenching them in legislative form. Low comments that the Act \"...provides strong legislative support for the development of an integrated and sustainable transport system...\".\n\nThe Commonwealth Department of Infrastructure and Transport has commented that -\n\nIn addition, the Commonwealth Department of Climate Change and Energy Efficiency noted that the Transport Integration Act appeared to be the only Australian transport statute which explicitly recognised the risks posed by climate change.\n\nReports continue to call for the adoption of policy and statutes which recognise emphasis on Transport Integration Act objectives including sustainability. \"Moving Australia 2030\", a report generated by the Moving People 2030 Taskforce in March 2013 which included representation from planning, public transport, bus and rail lobby groups, is the latest of these documents. The report instances the Act as a case study for driving integrated decision making in transport, land use planning and sustainability and as a model to be followed by other jurisdictions in Australia.\n\nDespite these observations, other jurisdictions including the Commonwealth have yet to respond to Victoria's leadership towards greater integration and sustainability in transport systems and their regulation. In fact, concerns exist that national developments are moving away from integrated transport solutions towards greater silo based activity as shown by the establishment of distinct sole purpose national regulators for heavy vehicles, rail and maritime.\n\nIn the words of Norman Swann, \"(T) the challenge is to apply this new thinking into outcomes for the State - and nationally.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46388647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46388647", "title": "Treaty Between Great Britain and Lagos, 1 January 1852", "text": "Treaty Between Great Britain and Lagos, 1 January 1852\n\nThe Treaty Between Great Britain and Lagos, 1 January 1852 was an agreement between the United Kingdom (represented by Commodore Henry William Bruce, Commander of the British Navy's West Africa Station and John Beecroft, British Consul in the Bights of Benin and Biafra) and Oba Akitoye, the newly installed Oba of Lagos.\n\nIn Britain's early 19th century fight against the Trans Atlantic Slave Trade, its West Africa Squadron, or Preventative Squadron as it was also known, continued to pursue Portuguese, American, French, and Cuban slave ships and to impose anti-slavery treaties with West African coastal chiefs with so much doggedness that they created a strong presence along the West African coast from Sierra Leone all the way to the Niger Delta (today's Nigeria) and as far south as Congo. In 1849, Britain appointed John Beecroft Consul of the Bights of Benin and Biafra, a position he held (along with his governorship of Fernando Pó) until his death in 1854. At the time of Beecroft's appointment, the Kingdom of Lagos under Oba Kosoko was in the western part of the Consulate of the Bights of Benin and Biafra and was a key slave trading port. In 1851 and with pressure from liberated slaves who now wielded political and business influence, Britain intervened in Lagos in what is now known as the Bombardment of Lagos (or Reduction of Lagos). The British installed Oba Akitoye, ousted Oba Kosoko, and signed a treaty on January 1, 1852 between Great Britain and Lagos that outlawed the slave trade, ushering in the consular period in Lagos' history, wherein Britain provided military protection to Lagos.\n\nThe text of the Lagos Treaty of 1852 is transcribed below:\n\n\"Commodore Henry William Bruce, Commander-in-Chief of Her Majesty’s ships and vessels on the West Coast of Africa, and John Beecroft, Esquire. Her Majesty's Consul in the Bights of Benin and Biafra, on the part of her Majesty the Queen of England, and the King and Chiefs of Lagos and of the neighbourhood, on the part of themselves and of their country, have agreed upon the following Articles and Conditions:\n\nArticle I\n\n\"The export of slaves to foreign countries is for ever abolished in the territories of the King and Chiefs of Lagos; and the King and the Chiefs of Lagos; and the King and Chiefs of Lagos engage to make and to proclaim a law prohibiting any of their subjects, or any person within their jurisdiction, from selling or assisting in the sale of any slave for transportation to a foreign country; and the King and Chiefs of Lagos promise to inflict a severe punishment on any person who shall break the law.\n\nArticle II\n\n\"No European or other person whatever shall be permitted to reside within the territory of the King and Chiefs of Lagos for the purpose of carrying on in any way the traffic in Slaves; and no houses, or stores, or buildings of any kind whatever shall be erected for the purpose of Slave Trade within the territory of the King and Chiefs of Lagos; and if any such houses, stores, or buildings shall at any future time be erected, and the King and Chiefs of Lagos shall fail or be unable to destroy them, they may be destroyed by any British officers employed for the suppression of the Slave Trade.\n\nArticle III\n\n\"If at any time it shall appear that the Slave Trade has been carried on through or from the territory of the King and Chiefs of Lagos, the Slave Trade may be put down by Great Britain by force upon that territory, and British officers may seize the boats of Lagos found anywhere carrying on the Slave Trade; and the King and Chiefs of Lagos will be subject to a severe act of displeasure on the part of the King and Queen of England.\n\nArticle IV\n\n\"The slaves now held for exportation shall be delivered to any British officer duly authorized to receive them, for the purpose of being carried to a British Colony, and there liberated; and all the implements of Slave Trade, and the barracoons or buildings exclusively used in the Slave Trade, shall be forthwith destroyed.\n\nArticle V\n\n\"Europeans or other persons now engaged in the Slave Trade are to be expelled from the country; the houses, stores, or buildings hitherto employed as slave-factories, if not converted to lawful purposes within three months of the conclusion of this Engagement, are to be destroyed.\n\nArticle VI\n\n\"The subjects of the Queen of England may always trade freely with the people of Lagos in every article they wish to buy and sell in all the places, and ports, and rivers within the territories of the ing and Chiefs of lagos, and throughout the whole of their dominions; and the King and Chiefs of Lagos pledge themselves to show no favour and give no privilege to the ships and traders of other countries which they do not show to those of England.\n\nArticle VII\n\n\"The King and Chiefs of Lagos declare that no human being shall at any time be sacrificed within their territories on account of religious or other ceremonies; and that they will prevent the barbarous practice of murdering prisoners captured in war.\n\nArticle VIII\n\n\"Complete protection shall be afforded to Missionaries or Ministers of the Gospel, of whatever nation or country, following the vocation of spreading the knowledge and doctrines of Christianity, and extending the benefits of civilization within the territory of the King and Chiefs of Lagos.\n\n\"Encouragement shall be given to such Missionaries or Ministers in the pursuits of industry, in building houses for their residence, and schools and chapels. They shall not be hindered or molested in their endeavours to teach the doctrines of Christianity to all persons willing and desirous to be taught; nor shall any subject of the King and Chiefs of Lagos who may embrace the Christian faith be on that account, or on account of the teaching or exercise thereof, molested or troubled in any manner whatsoever.\n\n\"The King and Chiefs of Lagos further agree to set apart a piece of land, within a convenient distance of the principal towns, to be used as a burial-ground for Christian persons. And the funerals and sepulchres of the dead shall not be disturbed in any way or upon any account.\n\nArticle IX\n\n\"Power is hereby expressly reserved to the Government of France to become a party to this Treaty, if it shall think fit, agreeably with the provisions contained in Article v of the Convention between Her Majesty and the King of the French for their suppression of the Traffic In Slaves, signed at London, May 22, 1845.\n\n\"In faith of which we have hereunto set our hands and seals, at Lagos, on board Her Britannic Majesty’s ship Penelope, 1st January, 1852.\n\n(L.S. ) H. W. BRUCE\n(L.S. ) JOHN BEECROFT\n(L.S. ) KING AKITOYE\n(L.S. ) ATCHOBOO\n(L.S. ) KOSAE\n"}
{"id": "32679715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32679715", "title": "Trial of Xiao Zhen", "text": "Trial of Xiao Zhen\n\nThe Trial of Xiao Chen () in Shanghai, China, for the murder of Hiren Mohini in Mount Eden, New Zealand, is notable as the first time a New Zealand murder has been tried in a foreign court. In the Chinese media, the case was frequently referred to as \"New Zealand's first murder case\" (新西兰第一命案).\n\nHiren Mohini, a taxi driver born in Mumbai, had picked up a fare in central Auckland and gone to Mt Eden between 1am and 2am on 31 January 2010. In Mt Eden he was fatally stabbed, apparently by a passenger. Police found a knife and soon had a suspect, based partly on CCTV footage. NZ$100,000 was raised from the New Zealand public to support Mohini's family.\n\nThe suspect, Xiao Zhen, was a 23-year old Chinese national and kitchen worker at the SkyCity casino complex. Zhen left New Zealand for China on 4 February, apparently to visit a sick grandfather. China does not have an extradition agreement with New Zealand and in any case does not extradite Chinese citizens even when an extradition treaty does exist.\n\nAfter reciprocal visits between the New Zealand and Chinese police, Xiao Zhen was arrested in Shanghai in June 2010. All the New Zealand evidence was translated into Chinese by the New Zealand police for the trial at the Second Intermediate People's Court in Shanghai at which the suspect confessed. Xiao Zhen claimed that Mohini had verbally insulted him after he boarded the taxi. Xiao demanded that he stop the taxi and refused to pay the fare. A struggle ensued, and Xiao Zhen stabbed the driver with a kitchen knife. The trial lasted only a few hours, with no in-person evidence presented, but Mandarin translations of witness statements and evidence were handed up to the judges. A verdict and sentence was expected on 17 August 2011. On 17 August Xiao Zhen was sentenced to 15 years in prison.\n\nBefore the commencement of the trial the New Zealand authorities obtained formal written assurances that the death penalty would not be invoked. New Zealand does not have the death penalty for murder.\n\nAssociate Professor Bill Hodge of the University of Auckland called the trial \"an insult to New Zealand jurisdiction\".\n\n"}
