{"id": "14494385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14494385", "title": "Acting presidency of Suharto", "text": "Acting presidency of Suharto\n\nThe acting presidency of Suharto followed the transition to the New Order in which Army General Suharto assumed presidential powers to \"restore\" law and order following the now-disputed attempted coup which led to anti-communist purge. The term lasted from 12 March 1967 until 27 March 1968, when Suharto was officially inaugurated as the definitive President of Indonesia.\n\nBy February 1967, President Sukarno realized that his political career was at an end and he became concerned at cutting his losses. On 7 February, he sent a letter to Suharto saying that he was willing to hand over the running of the government to the General but also added that he would like to continue on as head of state. In the time between the arrival of that letter and the formulation of the reply, the People's Representative Council (DPR) passed a resolution which called for a Special Session of the Provisional People's Consultative Assembly (MPRS). Suharto, accompanied by the commanders of the Navy, Air Force, and Police, met with Sukarno on 11 February to reject his offer and to wait instead for the result of the MPRS Special Session. \n\nOn 20 February 1967, Sukarno chose to relinquish all executive power to Suharto whilst still retaining his position as president. Sukarno's decision did not stop the DPR from insisting that the MPRS Special Session go ahead. Originally calling for an MPRS Special Session to be held for the purpose of reviewing Sukarno’s performance as well as reaching a final decision on whether or not he was involved with the 30 September Movement (G30S), the DPR now asked that the MPRS Special Session add Suharto's election as acting president to the agenda.\n\nThe Special Session was opened on 7 March 1967. On that day, Suharto delivered a speech absolving Sukarno of any involvement with the G30S. The Special Session now turned on the matter of the presidency. Such was the intensive debate surrounding this matter that the Special Session did not finish on 11 March 1967 as intended but had to go for another extra day. But when the decision was finally made, it was unanimous. On 12 March 1967, the MPRS agreed to withdrew its mandate from Sukarno and remove him as president. Replacing Sukarno, in the capacity of acting president(\"Pejabat Presiden\") would be Suharto.\n\nSuharto retained the Ampera Cabinet which had been formed by him in July 1966. He reshuffled this Cabinet in October 1967 and created the Revised Ampera Cabinet.\n\nThe 1966 MPRS General Session passed a resolution calling for legislative elections to be held no later than 5 July 1968 and this became one of the first matters that Suharto attempted to address during his acting presidency. In doing this, he would have to deal with political parties.\n\nFor the political parties, the main point of contention was whether the Legislative Election would use the district system or proportional representation. In the previous year, ABRI had expressed interest in the district system and as such handed to the DPR an election bill which favors the district system. The bill was successfully blocked in the DPR as the list of parties not wanting change to the district system included the Indonesian National Party (PNI) and Nadhlatul Ulama (NU). With time running out until the 1968 Legislative Elections, Suharto needed to hammer out a compromise.\n\nSuharto held a series of meetings during the first three months of his acting presidency with the leadership of the political parties. To accommodate the political parties, Suharto backed out of the notion of a district system and began supporting proportional representation; the trade-off being that the Government would be able to appoint some of the DPR members. The breakthrough was made on 25 July 1967 when the political parties agreed that the Legislative Elections will be held using proportional representation, that the Government will appoint 100 Mps out of the 460 in the DPR, and that the Government will appoint 1/3 of the members of the new People's Consultative Assembly (MPR).\n\nDespite the breakthrough it quickly became clear that it would be difficult to meet the deadline set by the MPRS. The bill would have to be rewritten and would have to go through the proper procedures before it could be passed. The bill was resubmitted to the DPR on 16 December 1967 but by January 1968, Suharto reported to the Chairman and Vice-Chairmen of the MPRS that it would be impossible to hold a Legislative Election in 1968.\n\nThe MPRS Resolution which appointed Suharto to the acting presidency also gave him the power to take legal action against Sukarno. Suharto chose not to take any legal action and instead, Sukarno was still allowed to reside at the Presidential Palace and enjoy his freedom. Suharto also continued to insist that Sukarno was still the Head of State. Speaking on 13 March 1967, Suharto insisted that Sukarno was still President and Head of State, although without the political power that came with the office. This state of affairs did not last long. By May, Suharto decided that Sukarno was no longer allowed to use the title of President of the Republic of Indonesia and placed the former President under house arrest at Bogor Palace.\n\nDuring the course of 1967, Suharto confirmed that West Papua would be given a plebiscite concerning the matter of integration with Indonesia.\n\nOn 12 September 1967, he signed a bill into a law which approved the formation of Bengkulu Province\n\nThe idea of pooling together the nations of South-East Asia into one organization came from Thanat Khoman the Thai Minister of Foreign Affairs. He suggested the idea to Indonesia's Minister of Foreign Affairs, Adam Malik who promised to bring it up with Suharto. Suharto was interested in the idea and sent Malik to a conference in Thailand in August 1967. The conference was also attended by the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of Malaysia, Singapore, and Philippines. On 8 August 1967, the five Ministers signed the Bangkok Declaration which marked the formation of the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN). The declaration called among other things for the cooperation to help accelerate economic growth and promote stability in the region.\n\nThe reversal of Sukarno's policy of Confrontation with Malaysia was completed with the establishment of diplomatic relations between Indonesia and Malaysia in early September 1967. At the same time, diplomatic relations were also established with Singapore with the opening of an Indonesian Embassy there. Running contrary to these two diplomatic successes was the deterioration of Indonesia's relationship with the People's Republic of China. The perception of the Indonesian Government was that China had backed the Indonesian Communist Party (PKI). The deterioration was not helped by the fact that the response to Indonesia's suspicion was the ideological zeal of China's Cultural Revolution. In October 1967, Indonesia announced that it was freezing diplomatic relations with China.\n\nThe emergence of Suharto as acting president was well received by the West, who was keen to not only invest but give aid. Relationship with the Soviet Bloc cooled down but nevertheless, Suharto would work towards repaying the debt incurred during the Sukarno Government. More details can be seen later in this article.\n\nThe first order of business for Suharto was to give official recognition to the non-military mission and roles of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Indonesia (ABRI) as Commander in Chief and Minister of Defense. Measures had been taken to create a doctrinal justification for the ABRI's interference in non-military matters and this had culminated in August 1966 with the formulation of the Four Duties, One Function (Indonesian: \"Catur Dharma Eka Karya\" Acronym: Cadek) Doctrine. The doctrine stated that in addition to its defense and security role, the ABRI will also take part and would serve in other fields outside of the aforementioned functions of defense and security, including politics, culture, education and economy. 31 March 1967, Suharto called on the ABRI to adopt and implement the Cadek Doctrine.\n\nThe next step was to continue purging the armed forces and police of PKI and Sukarnoist elements. With the Army, most intense purges happened in Central Java, East Java, and North Sumatra with the Commanders of the 1st, 4th and 5th Regional Military Commands (Kodam) supervising the areas in question leading the purge. Outside of the Army, the Air Force had been weakened enough by its alleged involvement with G30S. The National Police tried to resist but political pressure became too strong for them to overcome. Only the Navy resisted, criticizing the purges as practice reminiscent of the Old Order.\n\nSuharto also began reorganizing the Command Structure of the ABRI. The first step was taken by stripping the Commanders of the Army, Navy, Air Force and Police of their Cabinet rank and Ministries (the Army, Navy, Air and Police Ministeries, which fused into the Ministry of Defense and Public Security) in August 1967, leaving only the Minister of Defense and Security and the Commander of the Armed Forces of the Republic with Cabinet memberships. Suharto's acting presidency also saw the establishment of the State Intelligence Coordinating Agency (BAKIN), another agency to ensure state security in addition to the Operational Command for the Restoration of Security and Order (Kopkamtib), whose commander was also a part of the cabinet. In addition to all this, Suharto issued a regulation regarding pay for all ABRI active serving personnel. The regulation provided provisions for pay, conditions for pay rise and the various types of allowances for military personnel in active service and their families.\n\nBeginning in July, Indonesia faced a security problem in the form of the North Kalimatan People's Forces (Paraku) and the People of Sarawak's Guerilla Forces (PGRS), two guerilla armies consisting of people of Chinese ethnicity, with communist leanings, and backed by Beijing. By the end of 1967, ABRI troops, working together with troops of Malaysia, had made progress but it was unknown as to when the conflict could have been decisively ended.\n\nIn an effort to help the Government form policy in this field, law enforcement agencies (The Supreme Court, the Ministry of Justice, the Office of the Attorney General, and the National Police) held a conference in Cibogo, West Java. The agencies issued a joint communique which called for: elongating working days for legal procedures, increasing the amount of facilities for legal procedures, maximizing the amount of manpower for legal procedures, improving facilities, and improving coordination between the courts, the attorneys, and the police.\n\nIn the months leading up to Suharto’s assumption of the acting presidency, the trials of Old Order figures revealed that they had been very corrupt. To address this problem and to return any money that belonged to the state, Suharto formed the State Finance Supervision (Pekuneg) in April 1967. However, it would not be long before accusations of corruption were thrown at the new Government. Suharto responded to this by forming the Abolition of Corruption Team (TPK) on 2 December 1967.\n\nBy the end of 1967, the Suharto Government had been able to reduce inflation from 650% at the end of the previous year to 120%.\n\nWith regards to the budget, Suharto undertook a policy of a balanced budget and the Sukarno-era practice of printing extra money to raise funds when the budget runs short was discontinued. Technically speaking, however, Suharto’s budgets ran deficits because foreign aid and external borrowing are not supposed to be counted as revenue. \n\nThe new Government also undertook a reform of the tax system. On 26 August 1967, the DPR passed the Amendment and Revision of Collection Methods for Income, Wealth, and Corporate Taxes Law with Suharto smoothing out the details through a Government Regulation (Peraturan Pemerintah).\nUnder the new tax system, the taxpayer has two methods by which they can pay tax. The first method is the individual tax counting (\"menghitung pajak sendiri\") method. Using this method it was up for the individual to count the amount of tax they are to pay and to hand the tax in to tax offices. The second method is the non-individual tax counting (\"menghitung pajak orang lain\") method. In this method an individual was appointed by the Head of the Tax Inspection to count and pay the taxes of other individuals. If the individual counting the tax abused their position, they could be subject to a fine of paying 100% tax . Under this system, the roles of a tax officials are reduced to giving information and making sure that the amount of tax that has been paid is accurate.\n\nIn terms of monetary policy, interest rates were kept between 6 and 9%. Steps were also taken to reform the exchange rate system by the abolition of the multiple exchange rate of the Sukarno system in July 1967.\n\nIn May 1967, the liberalization of the banking sector was continued. ten foreign-owned banks and a joint venture bank were allowed to open. For the foreign-owned banks, the catch was that they were only allowed to operate in Jakarta. On 30 December 1967, the DPR passed the Fundamentals of Banking Law. It was a law that categorized banks, their functions, and the guidelines for establishing banks. Further regulations were expounded by Suharto in February 1968.\n\nWith agricultural production still not functioning at maximum capacity, Suharto had to make do with ensuring that the supply of rice and the stability of price was guaranteed. On 10 May 1967, Suharto formed the Logistics Affairs Agency (Bulog), to look after these matters. Its position was further strengthened when Suharto named it as the single purchasing agency for rice with Bank Indonesia as the single financing agency. Bulog immediately set a target of purchasing 597,000 tonnes of rice for the year but would delay when it comes to purchasing rice, preferring instead to wait until harvest season to make their purchase. However the year’s harvest was bad and from September 1967 onwards there was a shortage of rice. Although the bad harvest meant that Bulog was unable to fulfill its target purchase, it had 280,000 tonnes of rice under its control. Nevertheless, instead of sending its supply of rice to the market, Bulog focused instead on distributing rice to members of ABRI and the civil service. With high demand and no step being taken on the supply side, the price of rice had nowhere to go but up, its high price causing discontent within the population towards the end of the year.\n\nOn 8 July 1967, the DPR passed the Guidelines for Animal Husbandry and Health Law. The law called for setting aside land to grow animal food and for vaccination against animal diseases as well as categorizing the different kinds of Farming Enterprises and calling on the Government to invest capital in animal husbandry.\n\nIn July 1967, the Government simplified export import procedures in addition to taking a step back and giving as well as assisting the private sector an opportunity to conduct trade. For the year 1967, Indonesia was able to earn $770 million from its exports although it would spend $805 million from its imports and thus, running a trade deficit.\n\nIn earning $770 million from exports, $244 million was earned from exporting petroleum whilst $526 million was earned from non-petroleum exports. These non-petroleum exports included timber, rubber, coffee, tin, palm oil, tea, tobacco, pepper, copra, and palm seeds. Timber was the highest non-petroleum export, raking in $227.8 million. In spending $805 million on imports, $68 million was spent on petroleum whilst $737 million was spent on non-petroleum imports. Some of the non-petroleum imports included rice, flour, fertilizers, cement, paper, iron, steel, tractors, and aircraft. For the most part, the imports were raw materials which constituted 36.6% of the imports followed by consumption goods on 35.8% and capital goods on 27.6%.\n\nMining, both for oil and mineral resources alike, received legal recognition under the Guidelines of Mining Law. It gave guidelines for mining processes as well as giving private enterprise the opportunity to do business in the mining sector. Under this law, the private enterprises are to pay fees for the contract, exploration, and exploitation to the Government who in turn will hand it over to the Provincial and Regency Governments to be used for development. The importance of petroleum quickly become apparent by the fact that it was Indonesia's top export earner for the year 1967, bringing in $770 million's worth of revenue.\n\nIn the field of forestry, the DPR passed the Guidelines of Forestry Law on 24 May 1967. The law outlines the categories of forests, from protected forests, which exists for the purpose of preventing floods and erosions to production forests, from which timber are cut down to be exported. It also set provision for nature reserves and forests set aside for the purpose of tourism.\n\nIn December 1967, Suharto issued regulations for private enterprises wishing to exploit Indonesian forests. Suharto set down the conditions for the private enterprises; first was that they would have to pay license fees and secondly, they would have to pay royalties to the Government based on the amount of forest that they intended to make a profit from. As part of the policy, Suharto regulated that the region from which the forest was exploited will have first priority in receiving the money made from the two fees for the purpose of regional development.\n\nAt the beginning of 1967, the Government passed the Foreign Investment Law. By the end of 1967, 23 projects with the backing of foreign capital was approved: 14 direct investments, 8 joint ventures, and 1 working contract. Another investment law, this time directed towards domestic investors, was also in the process of being formulated.\n\nStarting from February 1967, the Government began receiving aid from a group of donor nations and or organizations called the Inter Governmental Group on Indonesia (IGGI). IGGI consisted of Australia, Belgium, Britain, Canada, France, Japan, New Zealand, Switzerland, the United States, Asian Development Bank (ADB), the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the United Nations Development Program, and the World Bank. In 1967, the Government received $675.4 million in aid; comprising credit, food aid, infrastructural aid, and technical aid.\nWith regards to the Communist Bloc, the nations from which Sukarno had already borrowed heavily during his presidency, Suharto wanted Indonesia to settle all of its debts plus interest although debts would still be rescheduled. Starting from mid September to early October 1967, protocols on debt rescheduling were agreed upon and signed between Indonesia and the Governments of East Germany, Czechoslovakia, and Hungary. In November 1967 it was the Soviet Union’s turn to sign a similar protocol with Indonesia.\n\nIn July 1967, the Government completed the Jatiluhur Dam in West Java. The Government saw the dam as a multipurpose infrastructure; expecting it to supply water to Jakarta and West Java, generate electricity, stop floods at Citarum, increase fishing production, and as a place for tourists to recreate.\n\nThroughout the course of the acting presidency, the Suharto government did some work with regards to state-owned enterprises. The government established new state-owned enterprises in the fields of the textile industry and urban planning. Similar to parallel regulations regarding the ABRI and the bureaucracy, the government also issued regulations regarding pay and allowances regarding those who work in state-owned enterprises.\n\nOn 18 December 1967, the DPR passed the Basics of Cooperatives Law. Although the previous Government already had its own Cooperatives Law which was passed in 1965, the Suharto Government viewed it as a law that politicized cooperatives. By requirement of the Sukarno-era legislation, a cooperative had to represent nationalist, religious, and communist elements in the adoption of Sukarno’s Nationalism, Religion, and Communism (Nasakom) concept and cooperatives was required to view itself as an equipment of the revolution. The new law placed cooperatives back as a purely economic institution and to undo the previous cooperatives law, does not approve of discrimination based on political beliefs amongst its leadership. The new law also called for the Government to guide, assist, supervise and protect cooperatives in its policies. This in effect, gives the Government authority over cooperatives although considerable autonomy was still given to the cooperatives.\n\nAs acting president, Suharto had already begun to take steps to show that he wanted to adopt family planning as Government policy on a national scale. In 1967, he signed the UN Declaration on Population and had already taken steps to implement family planning. By the end of 1967, 6,456 people had participated in the family planning program (KB) with the infrastructural backing of 116 KB clinics.\n\nThe Ministry of Manpower experimented with a social security system in 1967. Through a Ministerial Regulation, a Social Security Fund was established by the Department of Manpower. Under this fund, all costs for illnesses, pregnancy, giving birth, and deaths were covered by the Ministry. Only employees of private enterprises are eligible for this entitlement and it was not compulsory.\n\nOn 7 August 1967, the DPR passed the Veterans of the Republic of Indonesia Law. The law outlines not only the criteria for being a veteran but also their privileges; including receiving preference should a veteran apply to be a civil servant in government, being allowed to go back to their old civilian jobs after they finished their service, and to receive skills education from the Government before they return to full civilian life. The law also called on the Government to ensure the veterans’ social security through grants. The law granted the Veterans’ Legion of Indonesia, the national organization for veterans' affairs established in 1957, its own charter and a revised organization and leadership.\n\nIn religious affairs, Suharto adopted a stance of supporting religious tolerance and was against forced religious conversion. As will be seen however, this tolerance does not extend to Confucianism.\n\nBy the end of the acting presidency, the Suharto Government had taken measures to suppress the cultural life of its Chinese Indonesian citizens. The policies that were adopted include the non-recognition of Confucianism as a religion, banning Chinese holidays such as the Chinese New Year, banning Chinese newspapers, banning Chinese schools, and banning the usage and teaching of Mandarin.\n\nIn accordance with the Basic Points of the Press Law, which was passed in late 1966, the Government formed the Press Council in July 1967. The Press Council was an institution designed to assist the Government in developing and fostering the Indonesian media. The Press Council was to be chaired by the Minister of Information.\n\nTowards the end of 1967, the Government also moved to regulate amateur radio broadcasting. Although the Telecommunication Law of 1964 had promised punishment to anyone who was illegally owning radio transmitters, amateur radio stations had begun forming after G30S as a form of political dissent against the then Sukarno Government and had become quite popular as a hobby. The Government regulated that amateur radio stations would be allowed to continue provided that the broadcasters get a permit from the Government (thru the Ministry of Information) before broadcasting and that they join a national amateur radio organization.\n\nAs acting president, Suharto began taking steps to reform the bureaucracy by forming a taskforce called the Team Assisting the President for the Ordering of Government Apparatus and Administration. In December 1967, the Government executed two policies with regards to the bureaucracy. The first one was a regulation parallel to the ones that he made with regards to the pay, pay rise, and allowances to ABRI personnel and employees and staff from State Owned Enterprises. The second one was an announcement that the Government was raising the pensions of retired civil servants as well as allowances for the widows and children of retired civil servants.\n\nThe failure to hold a legislative election by 5 July 1968 meant that a new People's Consultative Assembly (MPR) would not be able to form which also meant that a new President and Vice President could not be elected through an MPR General Session. For Suharto, this meant that the length of his term as acting president was in doubt. Wishing to solidify his position, Suharto used the DPR to lobby the MPRS to hold a General Session. The MPRS Leadership agreed and scheduled a General Session to be held in late March. The General Session was opened on 21 March 1968 and the first matter that it turned to was the Legislative Election. The MPRS quickly passed a resolution, setting 5 July 1971 as the new deadline for the Legislative Election.\n\nWhen the MPRS turned its attention to the presidency, Suharto faced an obstacle in the form of MPRS Chairman General Abdul Haris Nasution. Nasution was of the opinion that Suharto should deliver an accountability speech before going on to run for president. This notion did not gain momentum and Nasution was forced to let the matter go. On 27 March 1968, Suharto was officially elected to a full five-year term; in the process officially becoming President of Indonesia. Nasution's advice, however, would only be materialized almost at the end of his first term, when he gave such an address on the 1971 General Session of the MPR.\n"}
{"id": "22860473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22860473", "title": "Active hard-drive protection", "text": "Active hard-drive protection\n\nIn computer hardware, active hard-drive protection refers to technology that attempts to avoid or reduce mechanical damage to hard disk drives by preparing the disk prior to impact. This approach is mainly used in laptop computers that are frequently carried around and more prone to impacts than desktop computers.\n\nUsually the system consists of accelerometers that alert the system when excess acceleration or vibration is detected. The software then tells the hard disk to unload its heads to prevent them from coming in contact with the platter, thus potentially preventing head crash.\n\nMany laptop vendors have implemented this technology under different names. Some hard-disk drives also include this technology, needing no cooperation from the system.\n\n"}
{"id": "43992444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43992444", "title": "Adiante-Galician Revolutionary Youth", "text": "Adiante-Galician Revolutionary Youth\n\nAdiante - Galician Revolutionary Youth (\"Adiante-Mocidade Revolucionaria Galega\", in Galician language) was a youth organization in Galicia (Spain) with a Galician independentist and communist ideology. According to themselves Adiante was \"an autonomous youth assembliary organization, that embraced the diversity of the Galician youth problems from the perspective of national and social liberation, with the strategic horizon the construction of an independent, socialist and feminist Galician Republic.\"\n\nAdiante starts to set in open assemblies meetings that took place on the eve of July 25, 2003, date on which is celebrated annually on \"National Day of Galicia\" (Día Nacional de Galicia). After a series of time converging in several movements (as combating LOU, Prestige, against the war in Iraq...), young people who had the project in mind Adiante called for October 9, 2004 the Constituent Assembly, which took place in Santiago de Compostela.\n\nSince then, Adiante participated in many social causes: feminism (mobilized annually on 8 March and 25 November), solidarity with other nations (Cuba, Palestine, Venezuela, Euskal Herria, etc.) and, most recently, participating in the European elections in 2009 in the candidacy Iniciativa Internacionalista (II-SP), along with other galician nationalist organizations.\n\nOn November 11, 2013, in a statement posted on its website and related virtual media of the nationalist left, announced its self-dissolution. Some members of Adiante would later found Xeira, as the new youth of the FPG. Other militants of Adiante chose not to join Xeira and in late 2014 formed a new youth group with independents and exmilitants of the Assembleia da Mocidade Independentista, with the name Terra.\n"}
{"id": "14263768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14263768", "title": "Ammonium adipate", "text": "Ammonium adipate\n\nAmmonium adipate is a compound with formula (NH)(CH(COO)). It is the ammonium salt of adipic acid. It is used as a food additive and has the E number E359.\n"}
{"id": "22676819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22676819", "title": "Anthypatos", "text": "Anthypatos\n\nAnthypatos () is the translation in Greek of the Latin \"proconsul\". In the Greek-speaking East, it was used to denote this office in Roman and early Byzantine times, surviving as an administrative office until the 9th century. Thereafter, and until the 11th century, it became a senior Byzantine court dignity. \n\nThe title of \"anthypatos\" was the traditional Greek translation for the Latin title of \"proconsul\". Under the Principate, the title of \"anthypatos\"/\"proconsul\" had been borne by all governors of a senatorial province, irrespective of whether they had previously been consuls, but after the reforms of Diocletian (), there were only two: the governors of Asia, Africa. The \"Notitia Dignitatum\" of , on the other hand, mentions three, with the proconsuls of Africa (\"Pars Occ\". XVIII) and Asia (\"Pars Or.\" XX) being joined by the proconsul of Achaea or Hellas (\"Pars Or.\" XXI). To them was added Constantinople after it became the imperial capital in 330, and until 359, when the post was replaced by an urban prefect, similar and equal to Rome. \n\nFollowing the fall of the Western Roman Empire, only the proconsuls of Achaea and Asia remained, until the reforms of Justinian I () in the 530s: Justinian merged provinces together and reunited civil and military authority in them under the same person, to whom he gave the rank of \"anthypatos\"/\"proconsul\", or the title of \"praetor\" with a proconsular rank. Such provinces were Armenia Prima, Cappadocia, Dalmatia, and Palaestina Prima. According to the contemporary official and writer Peter the Patrician, the \"anthypatoi\" are equated the augustal governors of Egypt, and equal of rank with the \"comites consistoriales\". When Africa was recovered in the Vandalic War (533–534), the proconsular governor was not restored; instead a \"consularis\" was appointed.\n\nAfter the establishment of the \"themata\" in the 7th century, the title was used within the context of the thematic structure: thematic \"eparchoi kai anthypatoi\" (\"eparchs and proconsuls\") are still in evidence in Asia Minor until the early 9th century, functioning as civil governors, possibly under the authority of the (much reduced in power) praetorian prefect in Constantinople. However, with the progressive unification of civil and military power in the hands of the thematic \"strategos\", by the reign of Emperor Theophilos () the title of \"anthypatos\" had become a simple court dignity.\n\nTheophanes the Confessor records that Emperor Theophilos honoured Alexios Mousele, the husband of his daughter Maria, by naming him \"\"patrikios\" and \"anthypatos\"\", raising him above the ordinary patricians. This change coincided with the abolition of the last vestiges of the old Roman system, as the provincial \"anthypatoi\" as civil governors were abolished, and replaced by the \"stratēgos\" of the \"thema\", and in their role as overseers of army provisioning and financial matters, by the much less prestigious \"prōtonotarioi\".\n\nThus, from the latter part of Michael III's reign (842–867), the term became a regular dignity intended for \"bearded men\" (i.e. non-eunuchs), constituting a class above the \"patrikioi\". The full title \"anthypatos kai patrikios\" was henceforth conferred upon several high-ranking administrative and military officials throughout the 10th and 11th centuries. In the 11th century, there is also evidence of a prōtanthypatos (πρωτανθύπατος, \"first \"anthypatos\"\"), and a single occurrence of a disanthypatos (δισανθύπατος, \"twice \"anthypatos\"\"). All these dignities disappeared, however, in the early 12th century.\n\nAccording to the \"Klētorologion\" of Philotheos, written in 899, the insignia of office of the \"anthypatos\" were purple inscribed tablets. Their award by the Byzantine emperor signified the elevation of the recipient to the office.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25572219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25572219", "title": "Ashura protests", "text": "Ashura protests\n\nThe 2009 Ashura protests were a series of protests which occurred on 27 December 2009 in Iran against the outcome of the June 2009 Iranian presidential election, which demonstrators claim was rigged. The demonstrations were part of the 2009 Iranian election protests and were the largest since June. In December 2009, the protests saw an escalation in violence.\n\nIn response to this protest, pro-government protesters hold a rally in a \"show of force\" three days later on December 30 (9 Dey) to condemn Green Movement protester.\n\nIrregularities during the 2009 Iranian presidential election caused resentment among many Iranians. While post-election protests were mostly peaceful, some violence erupted, leading to clashes between security forces and protesters, while some outspoken political dissenters were detained.\n\nHowever, dissenters continued to speak out against the Government, leading to further protests in December 2009. On 19 December 2009, the Grand Ayatollah Hossein Ali Montazeri, who had become a \"spiritual leader\" of the opposition, died. Montazeri's funeral, held on 21 December in the city of Qom, was attended by a large gathering of people and clashes ensued between security forces and mourners, leading on to further demonstrations in Qom and Isfahan. On 26 December, a paramilitary Basij force subordinate to the Iranian Revolutionary Guard stormed a mosque in Tehran where scholar and former President Mohammad Khatami was speaking. This was followed by continued clashes in Tehran in which \"Jaras\", a news media of the critics, estimated eight to ten people had died.\n\nPrior to Ashura, Mohsen Kadivar said he could not \"rule out the possibility\" of state intervention in the planned protests.\n\nOn 27 December, demonstrations in several cities continued into the holy day of Ashura the climax of Muharram, the month of mourning. Protesters in Tehran gathered \"From Imam Hussain Square to Freedom Square\", \"from east to west along Revolution Street\", and it was on this day that \"the political and religious symbology of Iran's Islamic regime was turned on its head\". The protesters made another symbolic move- a \"symbolic journey from a square named after its most revered hero toward a monument dedicated to freedom, along a street called Revolution.\"\n\nSeyed Ali Mousavi, the 35-year-old nephew of Mir-Hossein Mousavi, was among those killed in the violence. Later, it was reported that his body had disappeared, precluding the possibility of a quick burial, while state sources indicated that an autopsy was being performed. Mousavi was buried on 30 December.\n\nSimilar protests took place in other Iranian cities including Isfahan, Najafabad, Shiraz, Mashhad, Arak, Tabriz, Babol, Ardabil and Orumieh. Four people were reportedly killed in Tabriz, in north western Iran on 27 December, and one in Shiraz in the south of Iran. Access for international news media has been severely restricted by the Iranian government.\n\nState controlled media initially denied any deaths, though it was indicated on 28 December that 15 had died, including ten \"well-known anti-revolutionary terrorists\". According to the official news agency of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Tehran's Safety Services said that \"Nine residential buildings, 9 vehicles, 7 shops, 2 banks and 3 power stations were set on fire [by anti-government protesters].\" On 30 December, counter-rallies staged and organized by the government at various cities, including Tehran, Qom, Arak, Shiraz and Isfahan called for the death of the protesters, with government workers receiving the day off work in order to attend the demonstrations.\n\nLolagar mosque in Tehran was set into fire by the \"rioters\", according to the State TV of Iran leading to death of \"few\" people in mosque. Security forces allegedly opened fire on the day of Ashura, the Shiite holy day \"symbolically about justice\", a day on which any kind of violence is forbidden. Security forces initially denied reports of deaths and the Police Chief, Azizollah Rajabzadeh, stated that the police had not been armed, however, state television later acknowledged fatalities. Although official sources in Iran denied involvement of security forces in killing of protesters, at least one amateur video shows, the security truck which was deliberately running over the protesters. Other evidence says that security forces were armed with guns and shot at protesters, including one amateur video showing a plainclothes security force directly shooting at protesters.\n\nVandalism was reported by the Iranian government, with Tehran's Safety Services saying that \"Nine residential buildings, 9 vehicles, 7 shops, 2 banks and 3 power stations were set on fire.\" by the anti-government forces\n\nAmong the hundreds of people arrested in the aftermath of the Ashura demonstrations area are prominent lawyers, journalists, clerics and politicians, as well as family members of prominent human rights activists and reformist politicians. Some notable people arrested in the aftermath of the protests include:\n\nAccording to Ibrahim Moussawi, associate professor of Lebanese University and head of Hizbullah's media relations, the incident damaged \"public relations\" of the Green Movement with Iranian citizenry more than all events as the acts of the protesters on that day including \"applauding, whistling, and engaging in other cheerful displays,\" was \"widely\" seen as violation of a \"red line\" and targeting Husayn ibn Ali and Ashura commemoration itself. Various society groups including \"marej-'e taqlid, the society of Iranian doctors, university student groups, the Iranian Parliament, Oil Industry Workers, the Iranian Women's Culture and Education Society, the Society of Iranian Teachers, the Iranian Professors Society, provincial governors and municipalities and bazaars\" expressed their condemnation and many of them publicly asked for the \"prosecution of the opposition leaders\".\n\nMany people are set to stand trial for taking part in the protests. At least one person arrested in connection with the protest, a university lecturer Abdolreza Ghanbari living in Pakdasht, has been accused of \"moharebeh,\" (an Islamic term meaning \"warring against God\") and sentenced to death.\n\nThe governments of Canada, France, Germany, the United Kingdom and the United States are among those who have condemned the violence. US President Barack Obama openly criticized the Iranian government's violent crackdown on the protests in a speech and declared \"The decision of Iran's leaders to govern through fear and tyranny will not continue.\" Russia's Foreign Ministry expressed concern at the violence. It encouraged \"a compromise on the basis of the law, and also to take political efforts to prevent a further escalation of the confrontation.\"\n\nVenezuela condemned what it called Western governments' interference in Iran's internal affairs.\n\nSince the protest coincided with Ashura, the commemoration observed by Shi'as for the death of Imam Hussein, the third Imam of Shia's who were killed by the order of Umayyad Caliph Yazid I, protesters deliberately blended their political message with the Ashura's religious one in this protest. They alternated anti-government slogans with ancient cries of mourning for Imam Hussein.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4478098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4478098", "title": "Association of Netherlands Municipalities", "text": "Association of Netherlands Municipalities\n\nThe Association of Dutch Municipalities ( or VNG) was established in 1912 by 28 Dutch cities, at a time when the number of tasks delegated to municipalities saw a rapid increase. As a result of this increase, there was a greater need for information, exchange of experiences, and for an organisation that could represent the interests of its members at a central government level.\n\nThe Association of Dutch Municipalities is located in The Hague and it represents the interests of all 403 Dutch municipalities vis-a-vis central government. In addition it delivers services to all Dutch municipalities. Also the Caribbean countries Aruba, Curaçao and Sint Maarten, as well as the public bodies Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba are members of the organization. The current president of the board is Annemarie Jorritsma.\n\nIts Organisation for International Co-operation, VNG International, seeks to strengthen democratic local government in the world and implements projects in more than 40 countries in Europe, Asia, Africa and Latin America.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31561680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31561680", "title": "C. Hurst &amp; Co.", "text": "C. Hurst &amp; Co.\n\nHurst Publishers (C. Hurst & Co Publishers Ltd) is an independent non-fiction publisher based in the Bloomsbury area of London. Hurst specializes in books on global affairs and has lists in Islamic Studies, European History, War & Conflict, African Studies and International Relations. Christopher Hurst founded the company in 1969. Michael Dwyer, who joined Hurst in 1986, took over its running after the death of Christopher Hurst in April 2007.\n\nHurst authors include the French intellectual Olivier Roy, the British cultural critic Ziauddin Sardar, the Australian counterinsurgency expert David Kilcullen, and the historians Faisal Devji and Christopher Davidson, among others. The Hurst imprint publishes approximately 65 new books a year.\n\nChristopher Hurst founded the publishing house and pursued his, sometimes eclectic, interests, including Scandinavian culture and Balkan history. In the mid-1980s, Christopher Hurst became an activist for small, independent publishers, making his voice heard in the Publishers' Association. Hurst works in collaboration with Oxford University Press in New York to publish most of its list as Oxford University Press editions in North America.\n\n"}
{"id": "635611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=635611", "title": "Collectivization in the Soviet Union", "text": "Collectivization in the Soviet Union\n\nThe Soviet Union enforced the collectivization () of its agricultural sector between 1928 and 1940 (in West - between 1948 and 1952) during the ascendancy of Joseph Stalin. It began during and was part of the first five-year plan. The policy aimed to consolidate individual landholdings and labour into collective farms: mainly \"kolkhozy\" and \"sovkhozy\". The Soviet leadership confidently expected that the replacement of individual peasant farms by collective ones would immediately increase the food supply for the urban population, the supply of raw materials for processing industry, and agricultural exports. Planners regarded collectivization as the solution to the crisis of agricultural distribution (mainly in grain deliveries) that had developed from 1927. This problem became more acute as the Soviet Union pressed ahead with its ambitious industrialization program.\n\nIn the early 1930s over 91% of agricultural land became \"collectivized\" as rural households entered collective farms with their land, livestock, and other assets. The sweeping collectivization often involved tremendous human and social costs. Recent historians have estimated the death toll in the range of six to 13 million.\n\nAfter the emancipation of the serfs in 1861, peasants gained control of about half of the land they had previously cultivated, and began to ask for the redistribution of all land. The Stolypin agricultural reforms between 1905 and 1914 gave incentives for the creation of large farms, but these ended during World War I. The Russian Provisional Government accomplished little during the difficult World War I months, though Russian leaders continued to promise redistribution. Peasants began to turn against the Provisional Government and organized themselves into land committees, which together with the traditional peasant communes became a powerful force of opposition. When Vladimir Lenin returned to Russia on April 16, 1917, he promised the people \"Peace, Land and Bread,\" the latter two appearing as a promise to the peasants for the redistribution of confiscated land and a fair share of food for every worker respectively.\n\nDuring the period of war communism, however, the policy of \"Prodrazvyorstka\" meant that the peasantry was obligated to surrender the surpluses of almost any kind of agricultural produce for a fixed price. When the Russian Civil War ended, the economy changed with the New Economic Policy (NEP) and specifically, the policy of \"prodnalog\" or \"food tax.\" This new policy was designed to re-build morale among embittered farmers and lead to increased production.\n\nThe pre-existing communes, which periodically redistributed land, did little to encourage improvement in technique, and formed a source of power beyond the control of the Soviet government. Although the income gap between wealthy and poor farmers did grow under the NEP, it remained quite small, but the Bolsheviks began to take aim at the wealthy \"kulaks.\" Clearly identifying this group was difficult, though, since only about 1% of the peasantry employed laborers (the basic Marxist definition of a capitalist), and 82% of the country's population were peasants.\n\nThe small shares of most of the peasants resulted in food shortages in the cities. Although grain had nearly returned to pre-war production levels, the large estates which had produced it for urban markets had been divided up. Not interested in acquiring money to purchase overpriced manufactured goods, the peasants chose to consume their produce rather than sell it. As a result, city dwellers only saw half the grain that had been available before the war. Before the revolution, peasants controlled only 2,100,000 km² divided into 16 million holdings, producing 50% of the food grown in Russia and consuming 60% of total food production. After the revolution, the peasants controlled 3,140,000 km² divided into 25 million holdings, producing 85% of the food, but consuming 80% of what they grew (meaning that they ate 68% of the total).\n\nThe Communist Party of the Soviet Union had never been happy with private agriculture and saw collectivization as the best remedy for the problem. Lenin claimed \"Small-scale production gives birth to capitalism and the bourgeoisie constantly, daily, hourly, with elemental force, and in vast proportions.\" Apart from ideological goals, Joseph Stalin also wished to embark on a program of rapid heavy industrialization which required larger surpluses to be extracted from the agricultural sector in order to feed a growing industrial work force and to pay for imports of machinery (by exporting grain). Social and ideological goals would also be served through mobilization of the peasants in a co-operative economic enterprise which would produce higher returns for the State and could serve a secondary purpose of providing social services to the people.\n\nThis demand for more grain resulted in the reintroduction of requisitioning which was resisted in rural areas. In 1928 there was a 2-million-ton shortfall in grains purchased by the Soviet Union from neighbouring markets. Stalin claimed the grain had been produced but was being hoarded by \"kulaks.\" Instead of raising the price, the Politburo adopted an emergency measure to requisition 2.5 million tons of grain.\n\nThe seizures of grain discouraged the peasants and less grain was produced during 1928, and again the government resorted to requisitions, much of the grain being requisitioned from middle peasants as sufficient quantities were not in the hands of the \"kulaks.\" In 1929, especially after the introduction of the Ural-Siberian Method of grain procurement, resistance to grain seizures became widespread with some violent incidents of resistance. Also, massive hoarding (burial was the common method) and illegal transfers of grain took place. \n\nFaced with the refusal to hand grain over, a decision was made at a plenary session of the Central Committee in November 1929 to embark on a nationwide program of collectivization.\n\nSeveral forms of collective farming were suggested by the People's Commissariat for Agriculture (Narkomzem), distinguished according to the extent to which property was held in common:\nAlso, various cooperatives for processing of agricultural products were installed.\n\nIn November 1929, the Central Committee decided to implement accelerated collectivization in the form of kolkhozes and sovkhozes. This marked the end of the New Economic Policy (NEP), which had allowed peasants to sell their surpluses on the open market. Stalin had many so-called \"kulaks\" transported to collective farms in distant places to work in agricultural labor camps. In response to this, many peasants began to resist, often arming themselves against the activists sent from the towns. As a form of protest, many peasants preferred to slaughter their animals for food rather than give them over to collective farms, which produced a major reduction in livestock.\n\nCollectivization had been encouraged since the revolution, but in 1928, only about one percent of farm land was collectivized, and despite efforts to encourage and coerce collectivization, the rather optimistic first five-year plan only forecast 15 percent of farms to be run collectively.\n\nThe situation changed incredibly quickly in the fall of 1929 and winter of 1930. Between September and December 1929, collectivization increased from 7.4% to 15%, but in the first two months of 1930, 11 million households joined collectivized farms, pushing the total to nearly 60% almost overnight.\n\nTo assist collectivization, the Party decided to send 25,000 \"socially conscious\" industry workers to the countryside. This was accomplished during 1929–1933, and these workers have become known as twenty-five-thousanders (\"dvadtsat'pyat'tysyachniki\"). Shock brigades were used to force reluctant peasants into joining the collective farms and remove those who were declared kulaks and their \"agents\".\n\nCollectivization sought to modernize Soviet agriculture, consolidating the land into parcels that could be farmed by modern equipment using the latest scientific methods of agriculture. It was often claimed that an American Fordson tractor (called \"Фордзон\" in Russian) was the best propaganda in favor of collectivization. The Communist Party, which adopted the plan in 1929, predicted an increase of 330% in industrial production, and an increase of 50% in agricultural production.\n\nThe means of production (land, equipment, livestock) were to be totally \"socialized\", i.e. removed from the control of individual peasant households. Not even private household garden plots were allowed.\n\nAgricultural work was envisioned on a mass scale. Huge glamorous columns of machines were to work the fields, in total contrast to peasant small-scale work.\n\nThe peasants traditionally mostly held their land in the form of large numbers of strips scattered throughout the fields of the village community. By an order of 7 January 1930, \"all boundary lines separating the land allotments of the members of the artel are to be eliminated and all fields are to be combined in a single land mass.\" The basic rule governing the rearrangement of the fields was that the process would have to be completed before the spring planting. The new kolkhozy were initially envisioned as giant organizations unrelated to the preceding village communities. Kolkhozy of tens, or even hundreds, of thousands of hectares were envisioned in schemes which were later to become known as gigantomania. They were planned to be \"divided into 'economies (\"ekonomii\")' of 5,000 – 10,000 hectares which were in turn divided into fields and sections (\"uchastki\") without regard to the existing villages – the aim was to achieve a 'fully depersonalized optimum land area'...\" Parallel with this were plans to transfer the peasants to centralized 'agrotowns' offering modern amenities.\n\nIn the prevailing socio-economic conditions, little could become of such utopian schemes. The giant kolkhozy were always exceptional, existing mainly on paper, and in any case they were mostly soon to disappear. The peasants chose to remain in their traditional, primitive, villages.\n\nThe price of collectivization was so high that the March 2, 1930 issue of \"Pravda\" contained Stalin's article \"Dizzy with success\", in which he called for a temporary halt to the process:\n\nIt is a fact that by February 20 of this year 50 percent of the peasant farms throughout the U.S.S.R. had been collectivized. That means that by February 20, 1930, we had \"overfulfilled\" the five-year plan of collectivization by more than 100 per cent... some of our comrades have become dizzy with success and for the moment have lost clearness of mind and sobriety of vision.\n\nAfter the publication of the article, the pressure for collectivization temporarily abated and peasants started leaving collective farms. According to Martin Kitchen, the number of members of collective farms dropped by 50% in 1930. But soon collectivisation was intensified again, and by 1936, about 90% of Soviet agriculture was collectivized.\n\nTheoretically, landless peasants were to be the biggest beneficiaries from collectivization, because it promised them an opportunity to take an equal share in labor and its rewards. In fact, however, rural areas did not have many landless peasants, given the wholesale redistribution of land following the Revolution. Alternatively, for those with property, collectivization meant forfeiting land up to the collective farms and selling most of the harvest to the state at minimal prices set by the state itself. This, in turn, engendered opposition to the idea. Furthermore, collectivization involved significant changes in the traditional village life of Russian peasants within a very short time frame, despite the long Russian rural tradition of collectivism in the village \"obshchina\" or \"mir\". The changes were even more dramatic in other places, such as in Ukraine, with its tradition of individual farming, in the Soviet republics of Central Asia, and in the trans-Volga steppes, where for a family to have a herd of livestock was not only a matter of sustenance, but of pride as well.Peasants viewed collectivization as the end of the world. By no means was joining the collective farm (also known as the kolkhoz) voluntary. The drive to collectivize came without peasant support. The intent was to increase state grain procurements without giving the peasants the opportunity to withhold grain from the market. Collectivization would increase the total crop and food supply but the locals knew that they were not likely to benefit from it. Peasants tried to protest through peaceful means by speaking out at collectivization meetings and writing letters to the central authorities. When their strategies failed, villagers turned to violence: committing arson, and lynching and murdering local authorities, kolkhoz leaders, and activists. Others responded with acts of sabotage, including the burning of crops and the slaughter of draught animals. According to Party sources, there were also some cases of destruction of property, and attacks on officials and members of the collectives. Isaac Mazepa, prime minister of the Ukrainian National Republic (UNR) in 1919–1920, claimed \"[t]he catastrophe of 1932\" was the result of \"passive resistance … which aimed at the systematic frustration of the Bolsheviks' plans for the sowing and gathering of the harvest\". In his words, \"[w]hole tracts were left unsown... [and as much as] 50 per cent [of the crop] was left in the fields, and was either not collected at all or was ruined in the threshing\". Fueled by fear and anxiety, rumors spread throughout the villages leading to these acts. Rumors associated the Soviet government with the Antichrist (godless and evil), threatened an end to traditional ways of peasant life, and worked to unite the peasants to protest against collectivization.\n\nRumours circulated in the villages warning the rural residents that collectivization would bring disorder, hunger, famine, and the destruction of crops and livestock. Readings and reinterpretations of Soviet newspapers labeled collectivization as a second serfdom. Villagers were afraid the old landowners/serf owners were coming back and that the villagers joining the collective farm would face starvation and famine. More reason for peasants to believe collectivization was a second serfdom was that entry into the kolkhoz had been forced. Farmers did not have the right to leave the collective without permission. The level of state procurements and prices on crops also enforced the serfdom analogy. The government would take a majority of the crops and pay extremely low prices. The serfs during the 1860s were paid nothing but collectivization still reminded the peasants of serfdom. To them, this \"second serfdom\" became code for the Communist betrayal of the revolution. To the peasants, the revolution was about giving more freedom and land to the peasants, but instead they had to give up their land and livestock to the collective farm which to some extent promoted communist policies.\n\nWomen were the primary vehicle for rumors that touched upon issues of family and everyday life. Fears that collectivization would result in the socialization of children, the export of women's hair, communal wife-sharing, and the notorious common blanket affected many women, causing them to revolt. For example, when it was announced that a collective farm in Crimea would become a commune and that the children would be socialized, women killed their soon-to-be socialized livestock, which spared the children. Stories that the Communists believed short hair gave women a more urban and industrial look insulted peasant women. After local activists in a village in North Caucasus actually confiscated all blankets, more fear dispersed among villagers. The common blanket meant that all men and women would sleep on a seven-hundred meter long bed under a seven-hundred-meter long blanket. Historians argue that women took advantage of these rumors without actually believing them so they could attack the collective farm \"under the guise of irrational, nonpolitical protest.\" Women were less vulnerable to retaliation than peasant men, and therefore able to get away with a lot more.\n\nPeasant women were rarely held accountable for their actions because of the officials' perceptions of their protests. They \"physically blocked the entrances to huts of peasants scheduled to be exiled as kulaks, forcibly took back socialized seed and livestock, and led assaults on officials.\" Officials ran away and hid to let the riots run their course. When women came to trial, they were given less harsh punishments as the men because women, to officials, were seen as illiterate and the most backward part of the peasantry. One particular case of this was a riot in a Russian village of Belovka where protestors were beating members of the local soviet and setting fire to their homes. The men were held exclusively responsible as the main culprits. Women were given sentences to serve as a warning, not as a punishment. Because of how they were perceived, women were able to play an essential role in the resistance to collectivization.\n\nCollectivization did not just entail the acquisition of land from farmers but also the closing of churches, burning of icons, and the arrests of priests. Associating the church with the tsarist regime, the Soviet state continued to undermine the church through expropriations and repression. They cut off state financial support to the church and secularized church schools. Peasants began to associate Communists with atheists because the attack on the church was so devastating. The Communist assault on religion and the church angered many peasants, giving them more reason to revolt. Riots exploded after the closing of churches as early as 1929.\n\nIdentification of Soviet power with the Antichrist also decreased peasant support for the Soviet regime. Rumors about religious persecution spread mostly by word of mouth, but also through leaflets and proclamations. Priests preached that the Antichrist had come to place \"the Devil's mark\" on the peasants. and that the Soviet state was promising the peasants a better life but was actually signing them up for Hell. Peasants feared that if they joined the collective farm they would be marked with the stamp of the Antichrist. They faced a choice between God and the Soviet collective farm. Choosing between salvation and damnation, peasants had no choice but to resist policies of the state. These rumors of the Soviet state as the Antichrist functioned to keep peasants from succumbing to the government. The attacks on religion and the Church affected women the most because they were upholders of religion within the villages.\n\nDovzhenko's film, Earth, gives example of peasants' skepticism with collectivization on the basis that it was an attack on the church.\n\nDue to high government production quotas, peasants received, as a rule, less for their labor than they did before collectivization, and some refused to work. Merle Fainsod estimated that, in 1952, collective farm earnings were only one fourth of the cash income from private plots on Soviet collective farms. In many cases, the immediate effect of collectivization was to reduce output and cut the number of livestock in half. The subsequent recovery of the agricultural production was also impeded by the losses suffered by the Soviet Union during World War II and the severe drought of 1946. However the largest loss of livestock was caused by collectivization for all animals except pigs. The numbers of cows in the USSR fell from 33.2 million in 1928 to 27.8 million in 1941 and to 24.6 million in 1950. The number of pigs fell from 27.7 million in 1928 to 27.5 million in 1941 and then to 22.2 million in 1950. The number of sheep fell from 114.6 million in 1928 to 91.6 million in 1941 and to 93.6 million in 1950. The number of horses fell from 36.1 million in 1928 to 21.0 million in 1941 and to 12.7 million in 1950. Only by the late 1950s did Soviet farm animal stocks begin to approach 1928 levels.\n\nDespite the initial plans, collectivization, accompanied by the bad harvest of 1932–1933, did not live up to expectations. Between 1929 and 1932 there was a massive fall in agricultural production resulting in famine in the countryside. Stalin and the CPSU blamed the prosperous peasants, referred to as 'kulaks' (Russian: \"fist\"), who were organizing resistance to collectivization. Allegedly, many kulaks had been hoarding grain in order to speculate on higher prices, thereby sabotaging grain collection. Stalin resolved to eliminate them as a class.\n\nThe Soviet government responded to these acts by cutting off food rations to peasants and areas where there was opposition to collectivization, especially in Ukraine. Many peasant families were forcibly resettled in Siberia and Kazakhstan into exile settlements, and most of them died on the way. Estimates suggest that about a million so-called 'kulak' families, or perhaps some 5 million people, were sent to forced labor camps.\n\nOn August 7, 1932, the \"Decree about the Protection of Socialist Property\" proclaimed that the punishment for theft of kolkhoz or cooperative property was the death sentence, which \"under extenuating circumstances\" could be replaced by at least ten years of incarceration. With what some called the \"Law of Spikelets\" (\"Закон о колосках\"), peasants (including children) who hand-collected or gleaned grain in the collective fields after the harvest were arrested for damaging the state grain production. Martin Amis writes in \"Koba the Dread\" that 125,000 sentences were passed for this particular offense in the bad harvest period from August 1932 to December 1933.\n\nDuring the Famine of 1932-33 it's estimated that 7.8-8.1 million people died from starvation. The implication is that the total death toll (both direct and indirect) for Stalin's collectivization program was on the order of 12 million people. It is said that in 1945, Joseph Stalin confided to Winston Churchill at Yalta that 10 million people died in the course of collectivization.\n\nSince the second half of the 19th century, Siberia had been a major agricultural region within Russia, espеcially its southern territories (nowadays Altai Krai, Omsk Oblast, Novosibirsk Oblast, Kemerovo Oblast, Khakassia, Irkutsk Oblast). Stolypin's program of resettlement granted a lot of land for immigrants from elsewhere in the empire, creating a large portion of well-off peasants and stimulating rapid agricultural development in 1910s. Local merchants exported large quantities of labeled grain, flour and butter into central Russia and Western Europe.\nIn May 1931, a special resolution of the Western-Siberian Regional Executive Committee (classified \"top secret\") ordered the expropriation of property and the deportation of 40,000 kulaks to \"sparsely populated and unpopulated\" areas in Tomsk Oblast in the northern part of the Western-Siberian region. The expropriated property was to be transferred to kolkhozes as indivisible collective property and the kolkhoz shares representing this forced contribution of the deportees to kolkhoz equity were to be held in the \"collectivization fund of poor and landless peasants\" (фонд коллективизации бедноты и батрачества).\n\nIt has since been perceived by historians such as Lynne Viola as a Civil War of peasant against Bolshevik Government and the attempted colonisation of the countryside.\n\nIn areas where the major agricultural activity was nomadic herding, collectivization met with massive resistance and major losses and confiscation of livestock. Livestock in Kazakhstan fell from 7 million cattle to 1.6 million and from 22 million sheep to 1.7 million. Restrictions on migration proved ineffective and half a million migrated to other regions of Central Asia and 1.5 million to China. Of those who remained, as many as a million died in the resulting famine. In Mongolia, a so-called 'Soviet dependency', attempted collectivization was abandoned in 1932 after the loss of 8 million head of livestock.\n\nMost historians agree that the disruption caused by collectivization and the resistance of the peasants significantly contributed to the Great Famine of 1932–1933, especially in Ukraine, a region famous for its rich soil (chernozem). This particular period is called \"Holodomor\" in Ukrainian. During the similar famines of 1921–1923, numerous campaigns – inside the country, as well as internationally – were held to raise money and food in support of the population of the affected regions. Nothing similar was done during the drought of 1932–1933, mainly because the information about the disaster was suppressed by Stalin. Stalin also undertook a purge of the Ukrainian communists and intelligentsia, with devastating long-term effects on the area. Many Ukrainian villages were blacklisted and penalized by government decree for perceived sabotage of food supplies. Moreover, migration of population from the affected areas was restricted. According to Stalin in his conversation with the prize-winning writer Mikhail Sholokhov, the famine was caused by the excesses of local party workers and sabotage,\nI've thanked you for the letters, as they expose a sore in our Party-Soviet work and show how our workers, wishing to curb the enemy, sometimes unwittingly hit friends and descend to sadism. ... the esteemed grain-growers of your district (and not only of your district alone) carried on an 'Italian strike' (sabotage!) and were not loath to leave the workers and the Red Army without bread. That the sabotage was quiet and outwardly harmless (without blood) does not change the fact that the esteemed grain-growers waged what was in fact a 'quiet' war against Soviet power. A war of starvation, dear com[rade] Sholokhov. This, of course, can in no way justify the outrages, which, as you assure me, have been committed by our workers. ... And those guilty of those outrages must be duly punished.\nAbout 40 million people were affected by the food shortages including areas near Moscow where mortality rates increased by 50%. The center of the famine, however, was Ukraine and surrounding regions, including the Don, the Kuban, the Northern Caucasus and Kazakhstan where the toll was one million dead. The countryside was affected more than cities, but 120,000 died in Kharkiv, 40,000 in Krasnodar and 20,000 in Stavropol.\n\nThe declassified Soviet archives show that there were 1.54 million officially registered deaths in Ukraine from famine. Alec Nove claims that registration of deaths largely ceased in many areas during the famine. However, it's been pointed out that the registered deaths in the archives were substantially revised by the demographics officials. The older version of the data showed 600,000 fewer deaths in Ukraine than the current, revised statistics. In \"The Black Book of Communism\", the authors claim the number of dead was at least 4 million, and characterize the Great Famine as \"a genocide of the Ukrainian people\".\n\nAfter the Soviet Occupation of Latvia in June 1940, the country's new rulers were faced with a problem: the agricultural reforms of the inter-war period had expanded individual holdings. The property of \"enemies of the people\" and refugees, as well as those above 30 hectares, was nationalised in 1940–44, but those who were still landless were then given plots of 15 hectares each. Thus, Latvian agriculture remained essentially dependent on personal smallholdings, making central planning difficult. In 1940–41 the Communist Party repeatedly said that collectivization would not occur forcibly, but rather voluntarily and by example. To encourage collectivization high taxes were enforced and new farms given no government support. But after 1945 the Party dropped its restrained approach as the voluntary approach was not yielding results. Latvians were accustomed to individual holdings (\"viensētas\"), which had existed even during serfdom, and for many farmers the plots awarded to them by the interwar reforms were the first their families had ever owned. Furthermore, the countryside was filled with rumours regarding the harshness of collective farm life.\n\nPressure from Moscow to collectivize continued and the authorities in Latvia sought to reduce the number of individual farmers (increasingly labelled \"kulaki\" or \"budži\") through higher taxes and requisitioning of agricultural products for state use. The first kolkhoz was established only in November 1946 and by 1948, just 617 kolkhozes had been established, integrating 13,814 individual farmsteads (12.6% of the total). The process was still judged too slow, and in March 1949 just under 13,000 kulak families as well as a large number of individuals were identified. Between March 24 and March 30, 1949, about 40,000 people were deported and resettled at various points throughout the USSR.\n\nAfter these deportations, the pace of collectivization increased as a flood of farmers rushed into kolkhozes. Within two weeks 1740 new kolkhozes were established and by the end of 1950, just 4.5% of Latvian farmsteads remained outside the collectivized units; about 226,900 farmsteads belonged to collectives, of which there were now around 14,700. Rural life changed as farmers' daily movements were dictated to by plans, decisions and quotas formulated elsewhere and delivered through an intermediate non-farming hierarchy. The new kolkhozes, especially smaller ones, were ill-equipped and poor – at first farmers were paid once a year in kind and then in cash, but salaries were very small and at times farmers went unpaid or even ended up owing money to the kholhoz. Farmers still had small pieces of land (not larger than 0.5 ha) around their houses where they grew food for themselves. Along with collectivization, the government tried to uproot the custom of living in individual farmsteads by resettling people in villages. However this process failed due to lack of money since the Soviets planned to move houses as well.\n\nSources: \"Sotsialisticheskoe sel'skoe khoziaistvo SSSR\", Gosplanizdat, Moscow-Leningrad, 1939 (pp. 42, 43); supplementary numbers for 1927–1935 from \"Sel'skoe khoziaistvo SSSR 1935\", Narkomzem SSSR, Moscow, 1936 (pp. 630, 634, 1347, 1369); 1937 from \"Great Soviet Encyclopedia\", vol. 22, Moscow, 1953 (p. 81); 1939 from \"Narodnoe khoziaistvo SSSR 1917–1987\", Moscow, 1987 (pp. 35); 1940 from \"Narodnoe khoziaistvo SSSR 1922–1972\", Moscow, 1972 (pp. 215, 240).\n\nThe official numbers for collectivized area (the column with percent of sown area in collective use in the table above) are biased upward by two technical factors. First, these official numbers are calculated as percent of sown area in peasant farmsteads, excluding the area cultivated by sovkhozes and other agricultural users. Estimates based on total sown area (including state farms) reduce the share of collective farms between 1935–1940 to about 80%. Second, the household plots of kolkhoz members (i.e., collectivized farmsteads) are included in the land base of collective farms. Without the household plots, arable land in collective cultivation in 1940 was 96.4% of land in collective farms, and not 99.8% as shown by official statistics. Although there is no arguing with the fact that collectivization was sweeping and total between 1928 and 1940, the table below provides different (more realistic) numbers on the extent of collectivization of sown areas.\n\nDistribution of sown area by land users, 1928 and 1940\n\nSource: \"Narodnoe khoziaistvo SSSR 1922–1972\", Moscow, 1972 (p. 240).\n\nDuring World War II, Alfred Rosenberg, in his capacity as the Reich Minister for the Occupied Eastern Territories, issued a series of posters announcing the end of the Soviet collective farms in areas of the USSR under German occupation. He also issued an Agrarian Law in February 1942, annulling all Soviet legislation on farming, restoring family farms for those willing to collaborate with the occupiers. But decollectivization conflicted with the wider demands of wartime food production, and Hermann Göring demanded that the \"kolkhoz\" be retained, save for a change of name. Hitler himself denounced the redistribution of land as 'stupid.' In the end, the German occupation authorities retained most of the kolkhozes and simply renamed them \"community farms\" (, a throwback to the traditional Russian commune). German propaganda described this as a preparatory step toward ultimate dissolution of the kolkhozes into private farms, which would be granted to peasants who had loyally delivered compulsory quotas of farm produce to the Germans. By 1943, the German occupation authorities had converted 30% of the kolkhozes into German-sponsored \"agricultural cooperatives\", but as yet had made no conversions to private farms.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12961401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12961401", "title": "Constitution of Gibraltar", "text": "Constitution of Gibraltar\n\nGibraltar's first Constitution was passed in 1950. A complete list of the different constitutions follows.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55383004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55383004", "title": "Constitutionalism in the United States", "text": "Constitutionalism in the United States\n\nConstitutionalism in the United States is a basic value espoused by political parties, activist groups and individuals across a wide range of the political spectrum, that the powers of federal, state and local governments are limited by the Constitution of the United States and that the civil and political rights of citizens should not be violated.\n\nAs a political movement, many constitutionalists have expressed concern over provisions of the 2001 USA Patriot Act, civil asset forfeiture laws, mass surveillance, police checkpoints and militarization of police, while differing over other issues, such as restrictions on firearms, states' rights to determine drug and restroom laws, and federal management of public lands.\n\n"}
{"id": "1705399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1705399", "title": "Data validation", "text": "Data validation\n\nIn computer science, data validation is the process of ensuring data have undergone data cleansing to ensure they have data quality, that is, that they are both correct and useful. It uses routines, often called \"validation rules\" \"validation constraints\" or \"check routines\", that check for correctness, meaningfulness, and security of data that are input to the system. The rules may be implemented through the automated facilities of a data dictionary, or by the inclusion of explicit application program validation logic.\n\nData validation is intended to provide certain well-defined guarantees for fitness, accuracy, and consistency for any of various kinds of user input into an application or automated system. Data validation rules can be defined and designed using any of various methodologies, and be deployed in any of various contexts.\n\nData validation rules may be defined, designed and deployed, for example:\n\nDefinition and design contexts:\n\nDepts:\n\nFor business applications, data validation can be defined through declarative data integrity rules, or procedure-based business rules. Data that does not conform to these rules will negatively affect business process execution. Therefore, data validation should start with business process definition and set of business rules within this process. Rules can be collected through the requirements capture exercise.\n\nIn evaluating the basics of data validation, generalizations can be made regarding the different types of validation, according to the scope, complexity, and purpose of the various validation operations to be carried out.\n\nFor example:\n\nData type validation is customarily carried out on one or more simple data fields.\n\nThe simplest kind of data type validation verifies that the individual characters provided through user input are consistent with the expected characters of one or more known primitive data types; as defined in a programming language or data storage and retrieval mechanism as well as the specification of the following primitive data types: 1) integer; 2) float (decimal); or 3) string.\n\nFor example, many database systems allow the specification of the following lcodice_1, and codice_2 (plus, minus, and parentheses). A more sophisticated data validation routine would check to see the user had entered a valid country code, i.e., that the number of digits entered matched the convention for the country or area specified.\n\nA validation process involves two distinct steps: (a) Validation Check and (b) Post-Check action. The check step uses one or more computational rules (see section below) to determine if the data is valid. The Post-validation action sends feedback to help enforce validation.\n\nSimple range and constraint validation may examine user input for consistency with a minimum/maximum range, or consistency with a test for evaluating a sequence of characters, such as one or more tests against regular expressions. For example, a US phone number should have 10 digits and no letters or special characters.\n\nCode and cross-reference validation includes tests for data type validation, combined with one or more operations to verify that the user-supplied data is consistent with one or more external rules, requirements, or validity constraints relevant to a particular organization, context or set of underlying assumptions. These additional validity constraints may involve cross-referencing supplied data with a known look-up table or directory information service such as LDAP.\n\nFor example, an experienced user may enter a well-formed string that matches the specification for a valid e-mail address, as defined in RFC 5322 but that well-formed string might not actually correspond to a resolvable domain connected to an active e-mail account.\n\nStructured validation allows for the combination of any of various basic data type validation steps, along with more complex processing. Such complex processing may include the testing of conditional constraints for an entire complex data object or set of process operations within a system.\n\nA Validation rule is a criterion or constraint used in the process of data validation, carried out after the data has been encoded onto an input medium and involves a data vet or validation program. This is distinct from formal verification, where the operation of a program is determined to be that which was intended, and that meets the purpose. The Validation rule or check system still used by many major software manufacturers was designed by an employee at Microsoft some time between 1997 and 1999.\n\nThe method is to check that data falls the appropriate parameters defined by the systems analyst. A judgement as to whether data is valid is made possible by the validation program, but it cannot ensure complete accuracy. This can only be achieved through the use of all the clerical and computer controls built into the system at the design stage. The difference between data validity and accuracy can be illustrated with a trivial example. A company has established a Personnel file and each record contains a field for the Job Grade. The permitted values are A, B, C, or D. An entry in a record may be valid and accepted by the system if it is one of these characters, but it may not be the correct grade for the individual worker concerned. Whether a grade is correct can only be established by clerical checks or by reference to other files. During systems design, therefore, data definitions are established which place limits on what constitutes valid data. Using these data definitions, a range of software validation checks can be carried out.\n\nAn example of a validation check is the procedure used to verify an ISBN.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFailures or omissions in data validation can lead to data corruption or a security vulnerability. Data validation checks that data are fit for purpose, valid, sensible, reasonable and secure before they are processed.\n\n"}
{"id": "3738278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3738278", "title": "Economic conversion", "text": "Economic conversion\n\nEconomic conversion, defence conversion, or arms conversion, is a technical, economic and political process for moving from military to civilian markets. Economic conversion takes place on several levels and can be applied to different organizations. In terms of levels (roughly corresponding to geographic scales), conversion can take place at the level of new innovation projects, divisions within multi-divisional firms, companies, and national economies. In terms of objects, conversion can govern workers (i.e. retraining), firms (in terms of workers, capital, facilities and real estate) and land (in terms of real estate). Some of these scales obviously overlap. Organizations that can be converted include defense firms, military bases, and defense laboratories.\n\nConversion should be distinguished from economic diversification although the two processes overlap. Conversion involves the maximum reuse of military committed resources, with the emphasis on reuse of existing personnel. The key personnel within defense firms are engineers and factory workers, and managers skilled in managing innovations. Another key emphasis in conversion is in the area of new product development. Diversification can involve financial manipulation, e.g. in purchasing new firms, which leaves in place existing commitments to military production. Sometimes however, economic conversion requires purchase of another firm to supply \"complementary capacities.\" Generally, conversion can be supported by various factors that help defense firms overcome specialization.\n\nAmong the key periods associated with economic conversion have been the postwar conversion after World War II, numerous experiments in diversification (with conversion of defense engineers' skills) in the period after the Vietnam War in the 1970s, and similar efforts after the Cold War. Various militarist and corporate critics battled labor and peace advocates during these conversion openings, with the former usually winning the day.\n\nIn modern times, a key figure in promoting the idea of economic conversion was the late Seymour Melman (1917–2004), a professor at Columbia University in the United States. In recent times, the idea has also been promoted by various scholars and activists, particularly during the 1980s and 1990s, in Europe, the United States, Israel and South Africa. Following the end of the Cold War, great attention was placed on the prospects for economic conversion.\n\nRegarding differences in the 1970s and the postwar era, Seymour Melman noted that: \"The problem of conversion from military to civilian work is fundamentally different now from the problem that existed after World War II. At that time, the issue was reconversion; the firms could and did go back to doing the work they had been involved in before the war. They could literally draw the olds sets of blueprints and tools from the shelf and go to work on the old products. At the present time, the bulk of military production is concentrated in industries, firms, or plants that have been specialized for this work, and frequently have no prior history of civilian work\" (The Defense Economy, 1970: 7).\n\nDetailed empirical studies conducted by Seymour Melman, John Ullmann, Lloyd J. Dumas, Catherine Hill, Greg Bischak, Ann Markusen, Michael Oden, Jonathan Michael Feldman, and others have shown the technical or economic viability of economic conversion. After the September 11, 2001 attacks and concentrated political power directed towards military-serving interests, the obstacles to conversion have been considerable. Extensive political barriers suggest that conversion promotion requires various forms of institutional transformation and social movement mobilization.\n\nTo be successful, conversion must be part of a larger political program involving, military budget reductions, reindustrialization, and infrastructure renewal. For example, if a given defense firm should convert, its production could be easily replaced by output from another firm. Marcus Raskin at the Institute for Policy Studies in Washington, D.C. has developed such a treaty for comprehensive disarmament.\n\nIn the contemporary period, from the late 1990s to the present day (circa 2010) the prospects for conversion have been constrained by regional conflicts, the so-called \"war on terror,\" and consolidation within the defense industry through mergers, acquisitions and regional production networks. These barriers have decreased the incentives to shift into civilian markets for various firms, except for those more on the periphery of defense acquisition. Nevertheless, the potential debate over mega military systems like specific jet fighter programs or Trident (in the U.K.) as well as an overall climate of fiscal austerity might pressure or encourage some military firms to go civilian. Arms control agreements related to nuclear weapons might also lower the projected demand for some military suppliers. Ultimately, the extension of civilian markets for defense firms might be encouraged by building up the demand for civilian industrial markets like mass transit, alternative energy and sustainable, civilian infrastructure.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "158957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=158957", "title": "Federal grants in the United States", "text": "Federal grants in the United States\n\nIn the United States, federal grants are economic aid issued by the United States government out of the general federal revenue. A federal grant is an award of financial assistance from a federal agency to a recipient to carry out a public purpose of support or stimulation authorized by a law of the United States.\n\nGrants are federal assistance to individuals, benefits or entitlements. A grant is not used to acquire property or services for the federal government's direct benefit.\n\nGrants may also be issued by private non-profit organizations such as foundations, not-for-profit corporations or charitable trusts which are all collectively referred to as charities.\n\nOutside the United States grants, subventions or subsidies are used to in similar fashion by government or private charities to subsidize programs and projects that fit within the funding criteria of the grant-giving entity or donor. Grants can be unrestricted, to be used by the recipient in any fashion within the perimeter of the recipient organization's activities or they may be restricted to a specific purpose by the benefactor.\n\nFederal grants are defined and governed by the Federal Grant and Cooperative Agreement Act of 1977, as incorporated in Title 31 Section 6304 of the U.S. Code. A Federal grant is a:\n\n\"...legal instrument reflecting the relationship between the United States Government and a State, a local government, or other entity when 1) the principal purpose of the relationship is to transfer a thing of value to the State or local government or other recipient to carry out a public purpose of support or stimulation authorized by a law of the United States instead of acquiring (by purchase, lease, or barter) property or services for the direct benefit or use of the United States Government; and 2) substantial involvement is not expected between the executive agency and the State, local government, or other recipient when carrying out the activity contemplated in the agreement.\"\nWhen an awarding agency expects to be substantially involved in a project (beyond routine monitoring and technical assistance), the law requires use of a cooperative agreement instead. When the government is procuring goods or services for its own direct benefit, and not for a broader public purpose, the law requires use of a federal contract.\n\n\nFor charitable grants and funds for schools and organizations see: Grant writing and Grants.\n\nThere are over 900 grant programs offered by the 26 federal grant-making agencies. These programs fall into 20 categories:\n\nAward information in grants generally includes:\n\nEligibility information includes:\n\nFederal and state grants frequently receive criticism due to what are perceived to be excessive regulations and not include opportunities for small business, as well as for often giving more money per person to smaller states regardless of population or need. These criticisms include problems of overlap, duplication, excessive categorization, insufficient information, varying requirements, arbitrary federal decision-making, and grantsmanship (a funding bias toward entities most familiar with how to exploit the system, rather than to those most in need).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57596", "title": "Football War", "text": "Football War\n\nThe Football War (; colloquial: Soccer War or the 100 Hours War) was a brief war fought between El Salvador and Honduras in 1969. Existing tensions between the two countries coincided with rioting during a 1970 FIFA World Cup qualifier. The war began on 14 July 1969, when the Salvadoran military launched an attack against Honduras. The Organization of American States (OAS) negotiated a cease-fire on the night of 18 July (hence \"100 Hour War\"), which took full effect on 20 July. Salvadoran troops were withdrawn in early August.\n\nAlthough the nickname \"Football War\" implies that the conflict was due to a football match, the causes of the war go much deeper. The roots were issues over land reform in Honduras and immigration and demographic problems in El Salvador. Honduras is more than five times the size of neighboring El Salvador, but in 1969 the population of El Salvador (3.7 million) was some 40% higher than that of Honduras (2.6 million). At the beginning of the 20th century, Salvadorans had begun migrating to Honduras in large numbers. By 1969 more than 300,000 Salvadorans were living in Honduras. These Salvadorans made up 20% of the present population of Honduras.\n\nIn Honduras, as in much of Central America, a large majority of the land was owned by large landowners or big corporations. The United Fruit Company owned 10% of the land, making it hard for the average landowner to compete. In 1966 United Fruit banded together with many other large companies to create la Federación Nacional de Agricultores y Ganaderos de Honduras (FENAGH; the National Federation of Farmers and Livestock-Farmers of Honduras). FENAGH was anti-peasantry (against the campesino) as well as anti-Salvadoran. This group put pressure on the Honduran president, Gen. Oswaldo López Arellano, to protect the property rights of wealthy landowners.\n\nIn 1962 Honduras successfully enacted a new land reform law. Fully enforced by 1967, this law gave the central government and municipalities much of the land occupied illegally by Salvadoran immigrants and redistributed it to native-born Hondurans as specified by the Land Reform Law. The land was taken from both immigrant farmers and squatters regardless of their claims to ownership or immigration status. This created problems for Salvadorans and Hondurans who were married. Thousands of Salvadoran laborers were expelled from Honduras, including both migrant workers and longer-term settlers. This general rise in tensions ultimately led to a military conflict.\n\nIn June 1969, Honduras and El Salvador met in a two-leg 1970 FIFA World Cup qualifier. There was fighting between fans at the first game in the Honduran capital of Tegucigalpa on 8 June 1969, which Honduras won . The second game, on 15 June 1969 in the Salvadoran capital of San Salvador, which was won 3–0 by El Salvador, was followed by even greater violence. On 27 June 1969, the day the play-off match took place in Mexico City , El Salvador dissolved all diplomatic ties with Honduras, stating that in the ten days since the game in El Salvador 11,700 Salvadorans had been forced to flee Honduras. It said that as Honduras had \"done nothing to prevent murder, oppression, rape, plundering and the mass expulsion of Salvadoreans\", there was little point in maintaining relations. It further claimed that \"the government of Honduras has not taken any effective measures to punish these crimes which constitute genocide, nor has it given assurances of indemnification or reparations for the damages caused to Salvadorans\". El Salvador won the decisive third game 3–2 after extra time.\n\nLate in the afternoon of 14 July 1969, the concerted military action began. El Salvador was put on a blackout and the Salvadoran Air Force, using passenger airplanes with explosives strapped to their sides as bombers, attacked targets inside Honduras. Salvadoran air-raid targets included Toncontín International Airport, which left the Honduran Air Force unable to react quickly. The larger Salvadoran Army launched major offensives along the two main roads connecting the two nations and invaded Honduras. The invasion phase was perpetrated by three main contingents: the Chalatenago Theater, the North Theater, and the East Theater. The Chalatenango Theater was based on the northwest side of El Salvador, including the departments of Santa Ana and Chalatenango, across the mountain range close to the border, and the Sumpul River. This was a strategic region due to its rich soil and climate; however, this Theater would not see any fighting as it was to deploy only in case of Honduran penetration into El Salvador. The North Theater was composed of a small unit of armored vehicles and a large amount of manpower. The East Theater was to deploy in the departments of La Unión and Morazán. This Theater was composed of a large mechanized division, armored fighting vehicles such as the M3 Stuart and a large amount of artillery such as the 105mm M101.\n\nNicaraguan dictator Anastasio Somoza Debayle helped Honduras by providing weapons and ammunition.\n\nInitially, rapid progress was made by the Salvadoran army. By the evening of 15 July, the Honduran army had been pushed back over eight kilometers. The departmental capital of Nueva Ocotepeque fell shortly after along with eight other cities, placing the Salvadoran army within striking distance of the Honduran capital Tegucigalpa. The momentum of the advance did not last, however.\n\nThe Honduran air force reacted by striking the Salvadoran Ilopango airbase. Honduran bombers attacked for the first time in the morning of 16 July. When the bombs began to fall, Salvadoran anti-air artillery started firing, repelling some of the bombers. The bombers had orders to attack the Acajutla Port, where the main oil facilities of El Salvador were based. Honduran air-raid targets also included minor oil facilities such as the ones in . By the evening of 16 July, huge pillars of smoke arose in the Salvadoran coastline from the burning oil depots that had been bombed.\n\nBoth sides deployed World War II era design aircraft. All planes in the engagement were of U.S. origin. Cavalier P-51D Mustangs, F4U-1, -4 and -5 Corsairs, T-28A Trojans, AT-6C Texans and even C-47 Skytrains converted into bombers saw action. On July 17, Honduran Vought F4U Corsairs engaged a flight of Salvadorian Goodyear FG-1D Corsairs and Cavalier Mustangs — militarized versions of civilian air racing P-51s. During the duel, a Honduran pilot named Fernando Soto shot down three of the Salvadorian planes. El Salvador continued to fly its surviving Corsairs into 1975; Honduras didn’t retire its fleet until 1979. The war was the last conflict in which piston-engined fighters fought each other.\n\nThe Honduran government called on the OAS to intervene, fearing that the nearing Salvadoran Army would invade the capital Tegucigalpa. The OAS met in an urgent session on 15 July and called for an immediate cease-fire and a withdrawal of El Salvador's forces from Honduras. El Salvador resisted the pressures from the OAS for several days, demanding that Honduras first agree to pay reparations for the attacks on Salvadoran citizens and guarantee the safety of those Salvadorans remaining in Honduras. A cease-fire was arranged on the night of 18 July; it took full effect only on 20 July. El Salvador continued until 29 July to resist pressures to withdraw its troops. Then a combination of pressures led El Salvador to agree to a withdrawal in the first days of August. Those persuasive pressures included the possibility of OAS economic sanctions against El Salvador and the dispatch of OAS observers to Honduras to oversee the security of Salvadorans remaining in that country. The actual war had lasted just over four days, but it would take more than a decade to arrive at a final peace settlement.\n\nEl Salvador finally withdrew its troops on 2 August 1969. On that date, Honduras guaranteed Salvadoran President Fidel Sánchez Hernández that the Honduran government would provide adequate safety for the Salvadorans still living in Honduras. Sánchez had also asked that reparations be paid to the Salvadoran citizens as well, but that was never accepted by Hondurans. There were also heavy pressures from the OAS and the debilitating repercussions that would take place if El Salvador continued to resist withdrawing their troops from Honduras.\n\nBoth sides of the Football War suffered extensive casualties. Some 300,000 Salvadorans were displaced, many had been forcibly exiled or had fled from war-torn Honduras, only to enter an El Salvador in which the government was not welcoming. Most of these refugees were forced to provide for themselves with very little assistance. Over the next few years, more Salvadorans returned to their native land, where they encountered overpopulation and extreme poverty.\n\nEl Salvador suffered about 900 mostly civilian dead. Honduras lost 250 combat troops, and over 2,000 civilians during the four-day war. Most of the war was fought on Honduran soil and thousands more were made homeless. Trade between Honduras and El Salvador had been greatly disrupted, and the border officially closed. This damaged the economies of these nations tremendously and threatened the Central American Common Market (CACM).\n\nEleven years after the war the two nations signed a peace treaty on 30 October 1980 and agreed to resolve the border dispute over the Gulf of Fonseca and five sections of land boundary through the International Court of Justice. In 1992, the Court awarded most of the disputed territory to Honduras, and in 1998, Honduras and El Salvador signed a border demarcation treaty to implement the terms of the ICJ decree. The total disputed land area given to Honduras after the court's ruling was around . In the Gulf of Fonseca the court found that Honduras held sovereignty over the island of El Tigre, and El Salvador over the islands of Meanguera and Meanguerita.\n\nThe dispute continued despite the ICJ ruling. At a meeting in March 2012 President Porfirio Lobo of Honduras, President Otto Pérez of Guatemala, and President Daniel Ortega of Nicaragua all agreed that the Gulf of Fonseca would be designated as a peace zone. El Salvador was not at the meeting. However, in December 2012, El Salvador agreed to a tripartite commission of government representatives from El Salvador, Honduras, and Nicaragua that was to take care of territorial disputes through peaceful means and come up with a solution by 1 March 2013. The commission did not meet after December, and in March 2013 stiff letters threatening military action were exchanged between Honduras and El Salvador.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13961461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13961461", "title": "Garden Networks", "text": "Garden Networks\n\nGarden Networks is a not-for-profit organization registered in Canada, that specializes in providing Internet anti-censorship/Internet privacy products for free. The full name of Garden Networks is Garden Networks for Freedom of Information.\n\nGarden Networks was started in 2001 by a group of computer software and network engineers. In the same year, the first version of their software tool \"Garden\" was released, aiming at providing Internet access to web sites blocked by the Chinese government, including web sites of news agencies such as BBC, VOA, and spiritual groups such as Falun Dafa. Along the years, Garden Networks has continued this effort and released product upgrades and new products, combating the escalating Internet blockade of the Chinese government.\n\nThe products of Garden Networks provide English and Chinese user interface and are also used by people in other countries to circumvent national Internet censorship or to improve Internet privacy and protect themselves from Internet identify theft.\n\nGarden is the first product release by Garden Networks. It works by providing an HTTP proxy server running on the user's local PC. The software then connects to one of the servers provided by Garden Networks to bypass firewalls at China's national gateway.\n\nGarden provides an Internet Explorer Browser Helper Object (BHO) to enable a browser window to direct its traffic to the local proxy server. Activated by a blocked URL, Internet Explorer enters into a proxied mode automatically.\n\nA year after Garden was released, Garden Networks releases a new product called Garden G2. This software tool provides a different way of accessing the back-end servers, and a different way of engaging proxying. Unlike Garden, in G2, proxying is triggered by DNS resolution in order to provide support for a wider range of applications.\n\nGTunnel is the latest product released in October 2007. It features a new transport protocol which enables GTunnel to provide local SOCKS proxy support, and new working modes. GTunnel version 1.1 provides a standard mode, which is the main working mode and provides the best data transfer performance by connecting to the back-end servers directly, a Skype mode, and a Tor mode that go through computers in these P2P network. GTunnel also has an improved user interface which features real-time traffic graphs.\n\nGTunnel replaces the earlier Garden and G2 client software and becomes the main client software of Garden Networks.\n\nGTunnel works on Linux through Wine support.\n\n"}
{"id": "32520192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32520192", "title": "Georgia Constitutional Convention of 1861", "text": "Georgia Constitutional Convention of 1861\n\nThe Georgia Constitutional Convention of 1861 was held for the purpose of constructing a constitution to respond to the newly formed Confederate States of America. It prohibited the legislature from making any law that would free slaves (Article II, Section VII).\n\nThe convention enshrined the concept that the state should be sovereign in many matters. It met sporadically from January 16 to March 23, 1861 in Milledgeville. It voted to secede from the Union. It created the first new constitution since 1798. Secession helped precipitate the Civil War thus significantly altering the history of the state. Constitutional conventions in Georgia were held after the Civil War in 1865 and 1867-1868.\n\n"}
{"id": "29015004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29015004", "title": "Intelligence-Security Agency of Bosnia and Herzegovina", "text": "Intelligence-Security Agency of Bosnia and Herzegovina\n\nThe Intelligence-Security Agency of BiH, commonly known by its acronym OSA-OBA BiH, is the primary intelligence agency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It was created in 2004 by the Bosnian House of Representatives and House of People in March 2004.\n\nThe State Intelligence Service has the following duties:\n\n\nInstitutional Position of the State Intelligence Service and relationship with other state bodies:\n\nThe State Intelligence Service falls under the authority of the Prime Minister. Its Head is appointed and dismissed by the President of the Republic on the advice of the Prime Minister. \n\nOSA operates within this context and while it has been identified as being \"generally under effective civilian control\" (U.S. Department of State, 2004) the agency has still been associated with various abuses within the country and continues to play a significant role in domestic politics. The Bosnian government has received support from the U.S. and European countries in working to establish or reform national institutions, including its intelligence and security services.\n"}
{"id": "51335529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51335529", "title": "Interim Government of Somalia", "text": "Interim Government of Somalia\n\nThe Interim Government of Somalia, led by Ali Mahdi Muhammad, was established immediately after the collapse of the Somali Democratic Republic. From November 1991 to 1995, Ali Mahdi Muhammad enjoyed recognition as President in the international community following the 1991 Djibouti conference held between 15 and 21 July 1991, Ali Mahdi was elected interim President of Somalia for a period of two years, but because of the legitimacy conferred on Ali Mahdi by the Djibouti conference, his government was recognized by several countries, including Djibouti, Egypt, Italy, and Saudi Arabia.\n\nHowever, he was not able to exert his authority beyond certain parts of the capital. Power was instead vied with other faction leaders in the southern half of the country and with autonomous subnational entities in the north. The competition for influence and resources between Muhammad and Aidid continued on through the 1992–95 UN missions to Somalia (UNOSOM I, UNOSOM II, and UNITAF), until Aidid's eventual death in 1996.\n"}
{"id": "3885599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3885599", "title": "Jewish Released Time", "text": "Jewish Released Time\n\nJewish Released Time, also known as Sheloh (an abbreviation for \"Shi'urei Limud Hados\" (Classes for Learning the Religion)), is an organization promoting released time for the Jewish education of Jewish children learning in public schools.\n\nIn 1943, Rabbi Yosef Yitzchok Schneersohn founded Sheloh as a part of Merkos L'Inyonei Chinuch, the educational branch of the Chabad-Lubavitch movement. The program was first directed by Rabbi Y. Feldman. In 1945, Rabbi Jacob J. Hecht was appointed director, and continued in this position until his death in 1990. Rabbi Schneersohn, and his son in-law and successor Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson, were constantly involved in the program. In 1961, when the legality of the Released Time hour was challenged in Washington, D.C., Rabbi Schneerson worked hard to fight for its continuation, even sending a delegation to Washington to support it.\n\nThese classes take place off public school premises, in keeping with the United States Supreme Court decision in \"McCollum v. Board of Education\" (1948). Generally they are held in a nearby synagogue, but if none is available, they may be held in a wedding hall or similar venue.\n\nJewish released time classes, like those organized by other religious groups, take place for one hour each week (generally on Wednesdays), at the end of the school day. In these classes, children are taught to recite basic Jewish prayers, and learn about the Torah, Jewish history, Jewish law, and Jewish ethics. The teachers are Rabbinical students from the local central Lubavitcher Yeshiva Tomchei Temimim; for locations where there is no such Yeshiva, the teacher is the local Shliach or one of his assistants.\n\nSheloh's 1946 year-end summary stated that there were 5000 children from 150 different public schools attending their classes every week, with separate classes for boys and girls. By the later 1940s, there were 10,000 children attending Released Time's weekly sessions.\n\nGiven the limited amount of time, actual reading of Hebrew was not part of the curriculum.\n\nSheloh is a division of The National Committee for the Furtherance of Jewish Education, founded by Rabbi Jacob J. Hecht. The current chairman of NCFJE is Rabbi Sholem Hecht, and the director of Sheloh is Rabbi Zalman Zirkind.\n\nSheloh's mission has broadened to include assisting children who are interested in full-time Jewish education to enroll in Yeshivos. Sheloh also hosts other programs such as Released Time Winter Camp and Shabbatons (Shabbat get-togethers). These activities, in turn, have led to many parents becoming Baalei teshuva as a result of their children's interest in Judaism.\n\nZorach v. Clauson\nIn 1952, the case of Zorach v. Clauson came before the Supreme Court. The case involved the education law of New York State, particularly a regulation by which a public school was permitted to release students during school hours for religious instruction or devotional exercises. In a 6 to 3 ruling, the high court upheld the New York law.\n\nIn the majority opinion, Justice William O. Douglas wrote that New York's program \"involves neither religious instruction in public schools nor the expenditure of public funds\", unlike the earlier McCollum case that the Zorach plaintiffs had cited as precedent.\n\nDouglas wrote that a public school \"may not coerce anyone to attend church, to observe a religious holiday, or to take religious instruction. But it can close its doors or suspend its operations as to those who want to repair to their religious sanctuary for worship or instruction. No more than that is undertaken here.\"\n\nThe Court's opinion stated that\n\nIn the McCollum case the classrooms were used for religious instruction and the force of the public school was used to promote that instruction. Here, as we have said, the public schools do no more than accommodate their schedules to a program of outside religious instruction. We follow the McCollum case. But we cannot expand it to cover the present released time program unless separation of Church and State means that public institutions can make no adjustments of their schedules to accommodate the religious needs of the people. We cannot read into the Bill of Rights such a philosophy of hostility to religion.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3774260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3774260", "title": "Kinkaid Act", "text": "Kinkaid Act\n\nThe Kinkaid Act of 1904 (ch. 1801, , Apr. 28, 1904, ) is a U.S. statute that amended the 1862 Homestead Act so that one section (1 mi, 2.6 km, 640 acres) of public domain land could be acquired free of charge, apart from a modest filing fee. It applied specifically to 37 counties in northwest Nebraska, in the general area of the Nebraska Sandhills. The act was introduced by Moses Kinkaid, Nebraska's 6th congressional district representative, and was signed into law by President Theodore Roosevelt on April 28, 1904 and went into effect on June 28 of that year.\n\nThe legal provisions of the Kinkaid Act were very similar to those of the Homestead Act. A claimant had to be at least 21 years of age (or 18 if the head of a household), and a current U.S. citizen or in the process of becoming a citizen. Five years of residency was required to gain title to a claim, with exceptions made to account for years of military service. The residency requirement was shortened to three years in 1912. A claimant also had to prove that improvements equivalent to $1.25 per acre had been made to the property.\n\nOnly non-irrigable lands were eligible to be claimed under the provisions of the Kinkaid Act; those that were deemed to be practicably irrigable by the Secretary of the Interior were excluded. A 640-acre claim was required to be as compact as possible, and less than two miles in length. A homesteader who already held land in the area at the time of enactment could accumulate additional surrounding available territory in order to acquire a total homestead unit of 640 acres.\n\nCommutation (paying cash instead of occupying a claim for the full five years, which had been permitted under the 1862 Homestead Act) was not allowed under the Kinkaid Act.\n\nClaimants of land under the provisions of the Kinkaid Act were generally referred to as \"Kinkaiders.\"\n\nThe Kinkaid Act was repealed on October 21, 1976 (Pub. L. 94–579, title VII, § 702, Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2787). The final patent was issued in 1941 on of land.\n\nThe economy of the Nebraska Sandhills region in the late 19th century was dominated by the cattle ranching industry. Large ranches dotted the landscape, utilizing largely-unclaimed lands in the public domain. Ranchers would file claims on lands with water access, and use the surrounding public pastures for grazing. Large stockmen sometimes used fraudulent homestead filings from employees and other individuals in order to gain title to surrounding land. A shack would be erected on these fraudulent claims and the claimant would stay there once every six months in order to claim residency. A common tactic was to gain title to a thin strip of land surrounding a large pasture in the public domain; the pasture would then be used for grazing purposes. This prevented anyone else from grazing their cattle in the enclosed area and discouraged homesteaders from claiming the land. Bartlett Richards and William Comstock, who formed the Spade Ranch, were famous for tactics such as these.\n\nDue to the immense land holdings required for large cattle operations, the population of the Sandhills region decreased by 10% between 1890 and 1900, and millions of acres remained in the public domain. To address this issue, William Neville, a populist congressman from North Platte, Nebraska, introduced legislation in 1902 that would amend the Homestead Law to allow an individual to take a homestead of 1,280 acres in the arid and nonirrigable lands west of the 100th meridian. The bill never made it to the floor for debate.\n\nIn his 1902 address to congress, President Theodore Roosevelt made it a priority to settle the \"public land problem.\" He appointed a Public Lands Commission in 1903 to look into the issue and recommend solutions. The commission concluded that current land laws had been framed to accommodate humid regions, while the remaining public lands were arid in character. New land laws would be needed to settle the arid lands west of the 100th meridian.\n\nMoses Kinkaid, a congressman from the sixth district of Nebraska, introduced a bill \"to amend the homestead laws as to certain unappropriated and unreserved lands in Nebraska\" on April 6, 1904. The original bill provided for 1,280 acre homesteads, but the Committee on the Public Lands limited the size to 640 acres. The committee felt that 640 acres would be a good initial experiment size, and the act could be amended in the future if more land were needed.\n\nKinkaid stated that the bill had three primary purposes: to get the lands into the hands of individuals and thus make the land taxable; to end the fencing and claim fraud controversies over the land; and to build up the communities and homes in the region. It was a bill meant for \"the disposition of sandy and arid lands in western Nebraska,\" which were too difficult to irrigate. It specifically applied to the Sandhills region of Nebraska, which is approximately the northwestern two-thirds of the state. All of the land was west of the 98th meridian. Only non-irrigable lands were open for entry; those that were deemed irrigable were not eligible.\n\nThe bill passed on April 28, 1904. Approximately of land was made available within the area of the Kinkaid Act. An additional of land was withdrawn due to potential irrigability.\n\nAn immediate land rush followed the passage of the act. One of the land offices in the region was at Alliance, in Box Butte County. The first day to claim an entry was June 28, 1904. There were reportedly 400 people in line at the Alliance office on the initial day, and the original line was not completely processed until 3:00 pm on June 30. In April 1905, the \"Western Nebraska Observer\" of Kimball reported that there was a construction boom in Kimball County, which was within the territory of the Kinkaid Act. The \"North Platte Telegraph\" reported in 1906 that merchants had been experiencing their most profitable months ever due to the influx of new residents. In her book \"Old Jules\", an autobiographical account of living in the Sandhills region during the turn of the century, Mari Sandoz describes the scene as land was initially opened for settlement:\n\nTwo weeks before opening, covered wagons, horsebackers, men afoot, toiled into Alliance, got information at the land office, and vanished eastward over the level prairie. Many turned back at the first soft yellow chophills, pockmarked by blowouts and warted with soapweeds. Others kept on, through this protective border, into the broad valley region, with high hills reaching towards the whitish sky.\n\nPopulation rapidly increased in the 37 counties where the law was applicable: \nNearly all of the public lands in the region had been claimed by 1912. All that remained were extremely isolated or undesirable sections. Between November 1910 and 1917, a total of 18,919 land patents were issued for of land.\n\nSome observers question the success of the Kinkaid Act in bringing new settlers into the region. There were widespread reports by 1914 that 90% of Kinkaid patents were now in the hands of large stockmen. Some argued that it was impossible to maintain a successful ranching operation in the region with only 640 acres of land. However, many of these claims came from established cattle ranchers and industry representatives who were originally opposed to the Kinkaid Act.\n\nIn congressional testimony from 1914, Moses Kinkaid reported that the sentiment of settlers in the region was that most of the claims remained in the hands of individual families. He reported that the region experienced many small festivals every year where Kinkaid homesteaders would meet and display their agricultural products. He described the average Kinkaid homesteader as a small family farmer:\n\nHe estimated that the average Kinkaid homesteader had 15 to 40 head of cattle on 640 acres.\n\nKinkaid's observations were supported by a 1915 report compiled by the Agricultural Experiment Station at the University of Nebraska. It was found that there were only remaining in the public domain within the boundaries of the Kinkaid Act, and there were no sites that had 640 contiguous acres available. A 1917 report from the Department of Interior looked at the first ten years of the Kinkaid Act, from 1904 to 1914. It found the following results: \n\nThe report showed that a majority of the land was in the hands of small holders, and approximately half the acreage was still owned by the original claimants. The report also showed evidence of a general increase of economic activity for the region: \n\nWhile the Kinkaid Act was able to produce an immediate burst in economic activity for the region, it was mostly temporary. Many Kinkaid homesteaders eventually failed in their attempts to raise crops, usually selling out to large ranchers. For example, there were 377 farms in Holt County in 1913, but only 144 in 1914. This pattern repeated itself throughout the region.\n\nThe Kinkaid Act was successful in removing land from the public domain, but its goal of populating the region with small family farms had mixed results. Government officials were apparently pleased with the outcome of the Kinkaid Act, as it served as the blueprint for multiple other western land acts, most notably the Enlarged Homestead Act of 1909 and the Stock-Raising Homestead Act of 1916.\n\n"}
{"id": "58216864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58216864", "title": "Kuyper cabinet", "text": "Kuyper cabinet\n\nThe Kuyper cabinet was the cabinet of the Netherlands from 1 August 1901 until 17 August 1905. The cabinet was formed by the political party Anti-Revolutionary Party (ARP) and Independent Catholics (I) after the election of 1901. The right-wing cabinet was a minority government in the House of Representatives. Abraham Kuyper, the Leader of the Anti-Revolutionary Party was Prime Minister.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21181972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21181972", "title": "List of Danish royal residences", "text": "List of Danish royal residences\n\nThe Danish Royal Family inhabit a range of residences around Denmark. Historically all the residences of the royal family were privately owned. With the introduction of the new Constitution in 1849, some of the residences were claimed as property of the \"Kingdom of Denmark\". Some of the palaces are still privately owned by the Queen or other members of the Royal Family. The Agency for Palaces and Cultural Properties (the Danish equivalent of the Historic Royal Palaces Agency) is responsible for the management and upkeep of some of the royal palaces and gardens.\n\nThe Danish Royal Family traditionally occupy different royal residences during different seasons of the year. In summer, Queen Margarethe and Prince Henrik reside at Marselisborg Palace or Graasten Palace. In the winter, they reside at Amalienborg, whereas their residence during spring and autumn is Fredensborg Palace. Sometimes members of the royal couple spend time on the Royal Yacht Dannebrog, especially when on official visits overseas and on summer cruises in Danish waters.\n\nAmalienborg Palace is the winter home of the monarch, and is located in Copenhagen, Denmark. It consists of four identical classicizing palace façades with rococo interiors around an octagonal courtyard; in the centre of the square is a monumental equestrian statue of Amalienborg's founder, King Frederik V.\n\nAmalienborg was originally built for four noble families; however, when Christiansborg Palace burnt down on 26 February 1794, the royal family bought the palaces and moved in. Over the years various kings and their families have resided in the four different palaces. Currently, the Queen herself resides in \"Christian IX's Palace\" and the Crown Prince in \"Frederik VIII's Palace\". \"Christian VIII's Palace\" has apartments for other members of the royal family, whereas \"Christian VII's Palace\" is used for official events and to accommodate guests.\n\nHistorically, Christiansborg Palace in Copenhagen, was the main residence of the Danish kings. But after the fire of the first Christiansborg Palace in 1794, the royal family moved their residence to Amalienborg. However, even though the royal family does not reside in the palace, parts of Christiansborg has continued to be used by the monarch for official purposes and state ceremonies. It is the site of public audiences, meetings of the Council of State, state dinners, receptions and other ceremonies. Also, the Royal Stables which provide the ceremonial transport by horse-drawn carriage for the royal family, is located here. The royal parts of the palace are open to the public when they are not in use for official purposes.\n\nFredensborg Palace is a palace located on the eastern shore of Lake Esrum (Danish, \"Esrum Sø\") in Fredensborg on the island of Zealand (\"Sjælland\") in Denmark. It is the Danish Royal Family’s spring and autumn residence, and is often the site of important state visits and events in the Royal Family. It is the most used of the Royal Family’s residences.\n\nMarselisborg Palace is the summer residence of the royal family in Aarhus. Historically, the Palace was the property of the Marselis dynasty, its namesake. Marselisborg became a royal residence when Crown Prince Christian (later Christian X) and his consort Princess Alexandrine were given the Palace as a wedding present by the people of Denmark. As such the palace is the property of the Kingdom of Denmark, and will remain in possession of all future monarchs of Denmark. The royal couple used it as their summer residence. The building was rebuilt by the Danish architect Hack Kampmann. The present Queen Margrethe II was given the palace by her father, King Frederick IX of Denmark in 1967.\n\nGråsten Palace is the second summer residence of the Danish royal family. It is located in Gråsten in the Jutland region of southern Denmark. The main house has a modern, all-white facade, with Venetian doors opening onto sweeping, manicured lawns and gravel walkways. The grounds include a huge stables court.\n\nThe Eremitage Hunting Lodge (Danish: or ) is located in Dyrehaven north of Copenhagen, Denmark. It was built by architect Lauritz de Thurah in Baroque style from 1734 to 1736 for Christian VI of Denmark in order to host banquets during royal hunts in Dyrehaven.\n\nNever intended for residence, the Eremitage was built as a setting for hosting royal banquets during hunts in Dyrehaven, which surrounds the building. It originally featured a hoisting apparatus able to raise the table from the basement to the dining room, allowing the king and his guests to dine without any waiters present, or \"en ermitage\" (in solitude), hence the name of the castle. The apparatus was removed in the late 18th century as it was causing endless mechanical problems, and no signs of it remain. The previous building on the site, the Hubertus Chalet, had a similar apparatus and was nicknamed for the same reason.\n\nSorgenfri Palace is a royal residence of the Danish monarch located in the Lyngby-Taarbæk municipality in Greater Copenhagen. \nOriginally a country seat, Sorgenfri Palace was built for the Danish nobleman Count Carl Ahlefeldt in 1706. The palace first became a royal residence in 1730 after coming into the possession of the Danish Royal Family.\n\nSorgenfri was the preferred summer residence of King Christian X and his wife Queen Alexandrine. Both of Alexandrine's children Frederik and his brother, Knud, were born there. Both Knud and his wife Caroline-Mathilde lived at Sorgenfri Palace until their respective deaths in 1976 and 1995.\n\nToday the palace is closed to the public but the palace gardens are accessible when the monarch is not in residence. Countess Anne-Dorte, the widow of Count Christian of Rosenborg (a younger son of Prince Knud), presently resides in a wing of the palace.\n\nChâteau de Cayx is a residence of the Danish Royal Family located in the wine district of Cahors in southern France.\n\nThe château was first fortified during the fourteenth century. Since then it has been rebuilt and renovated several times. The Lefrancs built the extensive wine cellars under the château. \n\nThe phylloxera infestation devastated the vineyards during the late nineteenth century, and the owners emigrated to Indo-China. They did not return to Europe until 1955. In 1965 the family's heir, Henri Marie Jean André de Laborde de Monpezat, married Princess Margrethe, then heiress presumptive to the Danish throne, becoming Prince Consort of Denmark after she succeeded to Denmark's throne.\n\nThe royal couple purchased the château and the estate in 1974. Since then they have renovated it extensively. According to the official website of the Danish monarchy, the residence has become a \"relaxed setting for reunions of the entire Danish Royal Family and their French relatives\". It has been the setting for holiday photocalls for the Danish Royal Family, including for Prince Henrik's 80th birthday.\n\nThe residence is not open to the public. A guided tour of the gardens is available during the summer. The château still produces wine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39401951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39401951", "title": "List of Sindhudesh Liberation Army attacks on Pakistan infrastructure in Sindh", "text": "List of Sindhudesh Liberation Army attacks on Pakistan infrastructure in Sindh\n\nBomb attacks of Sindhudesh Liberation Army on Pakistan infrastructure like gas pipelines, railway-tracks, branches of national Banks., polls of high transmission lines in Sindh have occurred since 2003. Sindhudesh Liberation Army an outfit of Sindhi nationalists claims responsibilities of these attacks.\n\nAll the separatist groups of Sindhi nationalists like JSMM, JSQM and others believes in political struggles. only one separatist outfit of Sindhi nationalists, Sindhudesh liberation Army believes in armed struggle for inception of Sindhudesh. SLA is only an organisation in Sindh that claims these attacks.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFrom 2002 to 2006 there have been 120 bomb blasts in Sindh alone. CID solved 52 cases and 68 are still a mystery. The edition of 2006 Red Book, a confidential document, was printed. The total number of names in the book is 42, including JSMM chairman Shafi Muhammad Burfat alias Commando alias Ghulam Hussain Chandio. name of JSMM was included after several bomb blasts in the interior of Sindh,targeting railway tracks and sensitive government installations.\nTwo electricity pylons of 500kv high transmission line were damaged near the Sann railway station.\n\nOn 16 August Two bombs exploded on the line minutes after it had passed near Nawabshah, 250 km (150 miles) north-east of Karachi. The first explosion damaged track, while the second a few minutes later wounded two policemen and a journalist who were at the scene.\n\nTwo separate acts of sabotage, portions of railway tracks were destroyed when bombs exploded on up and down tracks in Kotri and Nawabshah.\n"}
{"id": "41810028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41810028", "title": "List of former members of the American Legislative Exchange Council", "text": "List of former members of the American Legislative Exchange Council\n\nThe American Legislative Exchange Council, otherwise known by the acronym ALEC, is a non-profit 501(c) political organization established in 1975. The legislative members are state and federal legislators. It is a forum to allow the members to write model laws and discuss legislative language with other members. ALEC meetings are an opportunity for the corporate and non-profit leaders to meet and provide feedback to legislators. Member legislators can then use the model bills as templates for their own bills.\n\nMembers here are listed as former members by virtue of the end of their terms in office of the various state legislatures, a necessary qualifier for membership in ALEC. None of these former members resigned from ALEC. See Resigned legislative members for the individuals who have announced they are no longer members by choice.\n\nALEC keeps its membership, activities and communications confidential. This list includes former members whose identity primarily has become known through internal documents revealed to Common Cause and by research by members of the press.\nEarly members included a number of state and local politicians who went on to statewide or national office, including Bob Kasten and Tommy Thompson of Wisconsin, John Engler of Michigan, Terry Branstad of Iowa, and John Kasich of Ohio. Several members of Congress were also involved in the organization during its early years, including Sen. James L. Buckley and Rep. Jack Kemp of New York, Sen. Jesse Helms of North Carolina, and Rep. Phil Crane of Illinois. More recently, Eric Cantor Majority Leader of the U.S. House of Representatives was an alumnus.\n\nMARYLAND\nPhillip D Bissett, R Maryland House of Delegates\nJames M Harkins, R Maryland House of Delegates\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1209852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1209852", "title": "List of political families", "text": "List of political families\n\nThis is a partial listing of prominent political families. Royal families are not included, unless certain later descendants have played political roles in a republican structure (e.g. Arslan Family of Lebanon and Cakobau Family of Fiji).\n\nThe Hoxha Family\n\nThe Myftiu Family – Peristeri Family \n\nThe Nano Family (father-son)\n\nThe Pashko Family (spouses)\n\nThe Shehu Famil\n\nThe dos Santos – Van-Dúnem-Vieira Dias Family \n\nThe Bird Family \n\nThe Frank Family (uncle-nephew)\n\nThe Demirchyan family (father-son)\n\nThe Sargsyan Brothers\n\nThe Margaryan family (father-son)\n\nThe Habsburg Family of Austria ( (grandfather – father – children)\n\nThe Aliyev family (father-son)\n\nThe Butler Family\n\nThe Pindling Family\n\nThe Symonette Family\n\nThe Turnquest Family (father-son)\n\nThe Foulkes Family (father-son)\n\n\nForefathers from Gour\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Adams Family (father-son)\n\nThe Barrow Family (brother-sister)\n\nAnciaux family (father and sons)\n\nde Brouckère brothers\n\nDe Croo family (father-son)\n\nDe Gucht family (father-son)\n\nDehousse family (father-son)\n\nEyskens family (father-son)\n\nSpaak family\n\nSimonet family (father-son)\n\nVanderpoorten family\n\nVan Rompuy family\n\nThe Soglo Family\n\nThe Zinsou Family\n\nDorji family\n\nThe Ballivián family (father-son)\n\nThe Siles family\n\nThe Izetbegović Family (husband-wife-son)\n\nThe Khama Family (husband-wife-son)\n\nThe Assed-Matheus Family (spouses and daughter)\n\nThe Bolsonaro Family (father and sons)\n\nThe Brás-Moreira Family (cousins)\n\nThe Collor-Mello Family \n\nThe Fonseca Family\n\nThe Genro Family\n\nThe Goulart-Brizola Family (brothers-in-law)\n\nThe Kubitschek Family\n\nThe Magalhães Family\n\nThe Matarazzo-Suplicy Family\n\nThe Neves-Cunha Family\n\nThe Sarney Family (father-daughter)\n\nThe Vargas-Peixoto Family\n\nThe Bogoridi Family\n\n\nThe Bokov Family \n\n\nThe Mihaylovski Family\n\n\nThe Shishmanov Family\n\n\nThe Slaveykov Family\n\n\nThe Staliyski Family\n\n\nThe Stanishev Family (father-son)\n\n\nThe Zhivkov Family\n\n\nThe Compaoré Family\n\nThe Yaméogo Family (father-son)\n\nThe Zerbo-Yonli Family\n\nThe Aung San Family (parents-daughter)\n\nThe Win Family (father-daughter)\n\nThe Bagaza-Buyoya Family\n\nThe Hun Family\n\nThe Boganda Family – Dacko Family -Domitien Family and Bokassa Family (distant relatives)\n\nThe Kolingba Family\n\nThe Alessandri Family\n\nThe Allende Family\n\nThe Aylwin Family\n\nThe Errázuriz Family\n\nThe Frei Family\n\nThe Girardi Family\n\nThe Lagos Family\n\nThe Letelier Family\n\nThe Montt Family\n\nThe Piñera Family\n\nThe Pinochet Family\n\nThe Pinto Family\n\nThe Chiang family (father-sons-grandson-great-grandson)\n\nThe Chen Family (Chen Cheng)\n\nThe Chen Family (Chen Lifu)\n\nThe Chen Family (Chen Shui-bian)\n\nThe Hau Family\n\nThe Hsu Family (mother-daughters)\n\nThe Lien Family\n\nThe Soong Family (father-son-3 daughters)\n\nThe Su Family\n\nThe Wu Family\n\nThe Yu Family (Kaohsiung County Black Faction)\n\nThe Bo Family\n\nThe Deng Family\n\nThe Hu Family\n\nThe Li Family\n\nThe Liu Family\n\nThe Mao Family\n\nThe Xi Family\n\nThe Zeng Family\n\nThe Zhou Family\n\nThe Araújo Family \n\nThe Barco Family (father-daughter)\n\nThe Lleras-Restrepo Family \n\nThe López Family \n\nThe Pastrana Family (father-son)\n\nThe Santos Family\n\nThe Ahmed Family (grandfather-grandson)\n\nThe Said Family\n\nThe Soilih Family (half-brothers)\n\nKabila family (father-children)\n\nKanza family (father-children)\n\nMobutu family (father-son)\n\nTshombe-Nguza family (uncle-nephew)\n\nThe Henry Family \n\nThe Arias-Sánchez Brothers\n\nThe Calderón Family\n\nThe Figueres Family (father-son)\n\nThe Jiménez Family (father-son)\n\nThe Monge Family (uncle-nephew)\n\nThe Tuđman Family\n\nThe Family\n\nClerides family (father-daughter)\n\nKyprianou family (father-son)\n\nPapadopoulos family (father-son)\n\nVasiliou family (husband-wife)\n\nThe Benda Family\n\nThe Dienstbier family\n\nThe Klaus Family\n\nThe Masaryk Family\n\nThe Auken Family\n\nThe Ellemann-Jensen Family\n\nThe Helveg Petersen Family\n\nThe Hækkerup Family\n\nThe Aptidon-Guelleh Family\n\nThe Boyd Family\nThe Douglas Family\n\nThe Báez Family\n\nThe Bosch Family\n\nThe Cabral family\n\nThe Fernández Family\n\nThe Guillermo Family\n\nThe Jimenes Family\n\nThe Medina Family\n\nThe Trujillo Family\n\nThe Arosemena Family\n\nThe Bucaram Family\n\nThe Plaza Family (father-son)\n\nThe Ghali Family\n\nThe Mubarak Family (father-son)\n\nThe Abaza Family\n\nThe Meléndez-Quiñónez Family\n\nThe Nguema Family (close relatives)\n\n\nThe Grünthal Family\n\nThe Helme Family\n\nThe Jürgenson Family\n\nThe Lauristin-Allik Family\n\nThe Mathiesen Family\n\nThe Lenk Family\n\nThe Lotman Family\n\nThe Must Family\n\nThe Oviir Family\n\nThe Päts Family\n\nThe Ratas Family\n\nThe Reiljan Family\n\nThe Sarapuu Family\n\nThe Savisaar Family\n\nThe Tarand Family\n\nThe Tõnisson Family\n\nThe Tsahkna Family\n\nThe Uluots Family\n\nThe Veidemann Family\n\nThe Kuusinen Family\n\n\nThe Tuomioja - Wuolijoki Family \n\nThe Vennamo Family (father-son)\n\nThe Aura Family (father-son-grandson)\n\n\nThe Bardoux-Giscard d'Estaing Family \n\nThe Debré Family\n\nThe De Gaulle Family\n\nThe Le Pen family\n\nThe Mitterrand Family (uncle-nephew)\n\nThe Casimir-Perier Family\n\nThe Sarkozy Family\n\nThe Villepin Family (father-son)\n\nThe M'ba-Eyeghe Ndong Family\n\nThe Sassou-Nguesso Family and Bongo Family\n\nThe Adenauer Family \n\nThe Albrecht Family (father – daughter)\n\nThe Bismarck Family\n\nThe Bülow Family\n\nThe Bülows are an old Mecklenburg aristocratic dynasty with many members active in politics, in church or in the military.\n\nThe de Maizière Family\n\nThe Ebert Family (father-son)\n\nThe Goppel Family\n\nThe Guttenberg Family\n\nThe Gysi Family (father and son)\n\nThe Koch Family\n\nThe Lambsdorff Family\n\nThe Niklas / Ertl Family\n\nThe Schäuble Family\n\nThe Speer Family (father – daughter)\n\nThe Strauss Family (father – daughter)\n\nThe Vogel Brothers\n\nThe Weizsäcker Family (grandfather-father-son-nephew)\n\nThe Agyarko family (brothers and sister)\n\nThe Ahwoi family (brothers)\n\nThe Akufo-Addo Family (father-son)\n\nThe Atta Mills family (brothers)\n\nThe Ayariga family (father, sons)\n\nThe Bawumia family (father, son, daughter in law)\n\nThe Jinapor family (brothers)\n\nThe Kufuor Family (brothers, brother in Law)\n\nThe Marfo family (brothers)\n\nThe Mahama family (father-son)\n\nThe Nkrumah family (father- daughter-son)\n\nThe Obetsebi-Lamptey family (father, son)\n\nThe Ocquaye family (father, son)\n\nThe Ofori Atta family \n\nThe Okudzeto family (father, nephews)\n\nThe Ramadan family (father, son, daughter)\n\nThe Rawlings family (father-wife-daughter)\n\nThe Smith family (brothers)\n\nThe Karamanlis family (two brothers, then their nephew)\n\nThe Papandreou family (grandfather-father-son)\n\nThe Tsaldaris family\n\nThe Varvitsiotis family (grandfather-father-son)\n\nThe Theotokis-Rallis family (five Prime Ministers)\n\nThe Venizelos-Mitsotakis family \n\nThe Cerezo Family\nThe Rios Family\n\nThe Burnham Family\n\nThe Jagan Family\n\nThe Duvalier Family (father-son)\n\nThe Azcona Family (father-sons)\nThe Flores Family (father-daughter)\n\nThe Melgar Family (spouses)\n\nThe Reina Brothers\n\nThe Antall Family (grandfather – father – son)\n\nThe Göncz Family (father – daughter)\n\nThe Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Family (West Bengal)\nThe Nehru-Gandhi Family\n\nThe Bishnoi family\n\nThe Das Family of West Bengal\n\nThe Ashutosh Mukherjee Family of West Bengal\n\n\n\n\nThe Shamanur Family Karnataka\n\n\nThe Y. S. Rajasekhara Reddy Family\n\nThe Gowda Family Karnataka\n\n\nThe Gupta Family\n\nThe Nandamuri Family — Andhra Pradesh\n\nThe Charan Singh Family\n\n\nP.V.Narasimha Rao's Family\n\nAnugrah Narayan Sinha's Family\n\nThe Satpathy Family\n\nThe Mishra Family\n\nThe Mishra Kehunia Family\n\nThe Ramachandran Family\n\nThe Karunanidhi family – Tamil Nadu, India\n\n\nThe Kalvakuntla Family\n\nThe Abdullah Family\n\nThe Owaisi Family\n\nThe Bahuguna Family\n\nThe K. Karunakaran Family \n\nThe V.L. Patil Family Karnataka\n\nThe Ramadoss Family – Tamil Nadu\n\nThe Kumaramangalam Family (father-son and daughter)\nThe Maderna Family of Rajasthan\n\nThe Mirdha Family of Rajasthan\n\nThe Patnaik Family\n\nThe Pilot Family\n\nThe Reddiar Family\n\nThe Yadav Family\n\nThe Sayeed Family\n\nThe Scindia Family (former Maharajas) (mother-son and daughters-grandsons)\n\nThe Badal Family – Punjab\n\nThe Brar Family – Punjab, India\n\nThe Deshmukh Family\n\n\nThe Thackeray Family\n\nThe Pawar Family\n\nThe Chavan Family\n\nThe Hiray Family\n\nThe Chautala Family\n\nBansilal Family\n\nThe Jindal Family\n\nThe Naik Family\n\nThe Bhoi Family\n\nThe Reddy Brothers, Karnataka\n\nThe Masood family\n\nThe Mahajan Family\n\nThe Rajnath Singh Family, Uttar Pradesh\n\nThe Asy'ari-Wahid Family\n\nThe Baswedan Family\n\nThe Djojohadikusumo Family\n\nThe Hatta Family\n\nThe Kalla-Aksa Family\n\nThe Sarwo Edhie-Yudhoyono Family\n\nThe Suharto Family\n\nThe Sukarno Family\n\nThe Yasin Limpo Family\n\nThe Khamenei Family (children are married to each other)\n\nThe Mosaddegh Family (father-in-law, son-in-law)\n\nThe Mansur Family (father-son)\n\nThe Zahedi Family (father-son)\n\nThe Larijani family (father-son, groom)\n\nThe Allawi-Chalabi Family\n\nThe Arif Family\n\nThe Barzani Family\nThe Hussein Family\n\nThe Ahern family\n\nThe Blaney Family\n\nThe Cosgrave family\n\nThe De Valera family\n\nThe Kitt-Brady family\n\nThe Lemass/Haughey family\n\nThe Lenihan family\n\nThe O'Malley family\n\nThe Andrews family\n\nThe Bruton family\n\nThe Coveney family\n\nThe Begin Family\n\nThe Burg Family\n\nThe Dayan Family\n\nThe Herzog Family\n\nThe Rabin Family\n\nThe Sharon Family\nThe Weizman Family\n\nThe Berlinguer Family\n\nThe Craxi Family\n\nThe Mussolini Family\n\nThe Manley Family\n\nThe Fukuda Family \n\nThe Hatoyama Family \n\nThe Okawa-Miyazawa Family \n\nThe Ōkubo-Yoshida-Suzuki-Asō Family\n\nThe Satō–Kishi–Abe Family \n\nThe Koizumi Family \n\nThe Konoe-Hosokawa Family \n\nThe Nakasone Family (father-son)\n\nThe Saigō-Ōyama Family\n\nThe Tanaka Family \n\nThe Obuchi Family\n\nThe Majali Family\n\nThe Badran Brothers\n\nThe Al-Fayez Family (father-son)\n\nThe Lawzi Family (father-son)\n\nThe Al-Rifai Family\n\nThe Family (founder-son-nephew)\n\nThe Nazarbayev Family (father-daughter)\n\n The Sejdiu Family\n\n\n\nThe Kenyatta Family\n\nThe Moi Family\n\nThe Odinga Family\n\n\nThe Awori Family (Kenya and Uganda)\n\nThe Tong Family\n\nThe Kim Family (1948–present)\nOther members of Kim Family\nOther non-bloodline members of Kim Family\n\nThe Park Family (father-daughter)\n\nThe Akayev Family (father-daughter)\n\nThe Bakiyev Brothers\n\nThe Ulmanis Family\n\nArslan family\n\nChamoun family (father-sons-granddaughter)\n\nEddé family \n\nKaram family\n\nEl Khazen family \n\nGemayel family (father-sons-grandsons)\n\nHariri family\n\nHelou family \n\nJumblatt family (father-son)\n\nKarame family (father-sons)\n\nLahoud family \n\nMoawad family (husband-wife)\n\nFrangieh family\n\nThe Barclay-Tubman Family\n\nSkivring Smith Family (father-son)\n\n\nLandsbergis / Jablonskis\n\nPaleckis\n\nThe Crvenkovski Family (Father-son)\n\nThe Ratsiraka Family (Uncle-nephew)\n\nThe Sylla Family (Father-son)\n\nThe Tsiranana Family (Father-son)\n\nThe Chirwa Family\n\nThe Mutharika Family\n\nThe Abdul Family \n\nThe Abdul Razak–Hussein Onn Family \n\nThe Tan Family\n\nThe Mahathir Family\n\nThe Abdullah Family\n\nThe Anwar Ibrahim Family\n\nThe Sheikh Fadzir Family\nThe Lim Family\n\nThe Karpal Singh Family\n\nThe Nga-Ngeh Family\n\nThe Gayoom Family (husband-wife and their close relatives)\n\nThe Sidibé Brothers\n\nThe Mifsud Bonnici Family\n\nThe Mintoff Family\n\nThe Fenech Adami Family\n\nThe De Marco Family\n\nThe Mizzi Family (father-son)\n\nThe Kabua Family\n\nThe Note Family\n\nThe Alik Family\n\nThe Duval Family\n\nThe Jugnauth Family\nThe Ramgoolam Family\n\nThe Boolell Family\n\nThe Mohamed Family\n\nThe Uteem Family\n\nThe Virahsawmy Family\n\nThe Jeetah Family\n\nThe Seetaram Family\n\nThe Guttee Family\n\nThe Abascal family (father, son)\n\nThe Ávila Camacho family (brothers)\n\nThe Calderón Hinojosa family (father, children, daughter-in-law)\n\nThe Cárdenas family (grandfather, father, son)\n\nThe del Mazo family (grandfather, father, nephew, son)\n\nThe Madero family (father, sons)\n\nThe Obregón family (father, son)\n\nThe Bramble Family\n\nThe Mandela Family (South Africa) and Machel Family \n\nThe Guebuza-Dai Family (Brothers-in-law)\n\nThe Nujoma Family (father-son)\n\nThe Adeang Family\n\nThe Detudamo Family\n\nThe Dowiyogo Family\n\nThe Keke-Stephen Family\n\nThe Kun Family\n\nThe Thapa dynasty\n\n\nThe Pande dynasty\n\nThe Basnyat dynasty\n\nThe Rana dynasty\n\nThe Koirala family\nConnected Member\n\nThe Donner family\n\nThe Regout family\n\nThe Godett Family\nThe Asjes-Prins Family\n\nThe Allen Family (grandfather-grandson)\n\nThe Atmore – Baigent Family (brothers-in-law)\n\nThe Barclay Family (father-son-cousin)\n\nThe Bell Family (father-son-grandsons)\n\nThe Brandon Family (father-son)\n\nThe Brown – Garrick – Peacock – Webb family (brothers-in-law)\n\nThe Connelly Family (father-son)\n\nThe Courtney – Williams Family (great-grandfather and great-grandson)\n\nThe Douglas Family (father-sons)\n\nThe Field Family (brothers-cousin)\n\nThe Fisher Family (father-son)\n\nThe Fraser – Cullen Family (wife-husband)\n\nThe Gerard Family (father-son)\n\nThe Graham Family (great-grandfather-great-grandsons/brothers)\n\nThe Grigg Family (husband-wife-husband)\n\nThe Hamilton Brothers\n\nThe Hanan Family (uncle-nephew)\n\nThe Hay Family (father-son)\n\nThe Henare Family (great-grandfather/great-grandson)\n\nThe Hislop Family (father-son)\n\nThe Holland Family (father-son-grandson)\n\nThe Holyoake Family (father/son-in-law)\n\nThe Howard Family (father-daughter)\n\nThe Hutchison Family (father-son)\n\nThe Izard Family (father-son)\n\nThe Kirk Family (father-son)\n\nThe Lange – Bassett Family (Bassett was a cousin of Lange)\n\nThe Levin Family (father-son)\n\nThe Luxton Family (father-son)\n\nThe McCombs Family (husband-wife-son)\n\nThe MacIntyre Family (father-son)\n\nThe Mackenzie Family (father-son)\n\nThe Mackey Family (mother-daughter)\n\nThe Mason – Wilford Family (grandfather-grandson)\n\nThe Massey Family (father-two sons)\n\nThe McClay Family (father-son)\n\nThe McMillan Family (husband-wife)\n\nThe Montgomery Family (father-son)\n\nThe Moss Family (father-son)\n\nThe Myers – Baume Family (cousins)\n\nThe Nordmeyer Family (father-in-law & son-in-law)\n\nThe O'Flynn Family (father-son)\n\nThe Ormond – Wilson Family (grandfathers-grandsons)\n\nThe Paikea Family (father-son)\n\nThe Parata Family (father-son-descendent)\n\nThe Peters Family (brothers)\n\nThe Pharazyn Family (father-son)\n\nThe Ratana Family (brothers, wife)\n\nThe Reeves Brothers\n\nThe Reeves Family (father-son)\n\nThe Rhodes Family (brothers, father-son-cousin)\n\nThe Richardson – Pearce Family (Richardson was Pearce's great-granddaughter)\n\nThe Richmond – Atkinson Family (brothers, relation by marriage)\n\nThe Rolleston Family (father-sons)\n\nThe Seddon Family (father-son)\n\nThe Sidey Family (father-son)\n\nThe Smith Family (father-son)\n\nThe Smith Family (father-son)\n\nThe Stewart Family (father-son)\n\nThe Sutton Family (brothers)\n\nThe Taylor Family (father-son)\n\nThe Tirikatene Family (father-daughter-nephew/grandson)\n\nThe Tizard Family (husband-wife; parents-daughter)\n\nThe Uru Brothers\n\nThe Wetere – Mahuta Family (uncle-niece)\n\nThe Wakefield Family (father-son-nephew)\n\nThe Ward Family (father-son)\n\nThe Young Family (father-daughter)\n\nThe Young Family (father-son)\n\nThe Argüello Family \n\nThe Chamorro Family \n\nThe Sacasa Family \n\nThe Ortega-Murillo Family\n\nThe Somoza Family\n\nThe Diori Family (cousins)\n\nThe Kountché Family (cousins)\n\n\"The Abubakar Olusola Saraki Family (father, son, daughter)\nThe ironsi family father, son)\n(Former minister of defense), 2001-2004: (Nigerian Ambassador to Togo)\n\nThe Stoltenberg Family\nAll members of the family are associated with the Norwegian Labour Party\n\nThe Gerhardsen Family\nAll members of the family are associated with the Norwegian Labour Party\n\nThe Harlem Family\nAll members of the family are associated with the Norwegian Labor Party\n\nThe Bondevik Family\nAll members of the family is associated with the Norwegian Christian Democratic Party\n\nThe Remengesau Family (Father-son)\n\nThe Tmetuchl-Toriboing Family \n\nThe Whipps Family (Father-son)\n\nThe Arias Family\n\nThe Arosemena Family (brothers-in-law)\n\nThe Boyd Family (father-son)\n\nThe Chiari-Robles Family\n\nThe Delvalle Family (uncle-nephew)\n\nThe Lewis Family (father-son)\n\nThe Torrijos Family (father-son)\n\nThe Chan Family (father-son)\n\n\nThe Somare Family (father-son)\n\n\nThe Argaña Family\n\nThe Cubas Family\n\nThe López Family\n\nThe Acuña Family\n\nThe Andrade Family\n\nThe Bedoya Family\n\nThe Belaúnde/Diez Canseco Family\n\nThe Castañeda Family\n\nThe de la Riva-Agüero Family\n\nThe Fujimori Family\n\nThe García Family\n\nThe Morales-Bermúdez Family\n\nThe Pardo Family\n\nThe Prado Family\n\nThe Schreiber/Arias Schreiber/Arias Stella Family\n\nThe Townsend Family\n\nThese are the families that either supplied two or more generations of presidents, or vice presidents, or senators.\nOnly family members who are presidents, vice presidents, senators, congressmen or members of the Cabinet are included, unless that government official has a descendant that is from amongst those positions.\n\nThe Angara Family\n\nThe Family\n\nThe Cayetano Family\n\nThe Cojuangco Family\nThe Family\n\nThe Guingona Family\n\nThe Laurel Family\n\nThe López family of Iloilo\n\nThe Madrigal Family\n\nThe Magsaysay Family\n\nThe Family\n\nThe Macapagal Family\n\nThe Osmeña Family\n\nThe Pimentel Family\n\nThe Recto Family\n\nThe Revilla Family\n\nThe Roxas Family\n\nThe Sumulong Family\n\nThe Sotto Family\n\nThe Tañada Family\n\nThe Fabella Family\n\nThe Festin Family\n\n\"Related to Fondevilla Family\"\n\nThe Fetalino Family\n\n\"Related to Firmalo, Llorca, and Fabella Families\"\n\nThe Firmalo Family\n\n\"Related to Fetalino, Madrona and Llorca Families\"\n\nThe Fondevilla Family\n\"Related to Festin, Madrona and Leaño Families\"\n\nThe Leaño Family\n\n\"Related to Fondevilla Family\"\n\nThe Madrona Family\n\nThe Christian Family \n\n\"Poland is probably the only country in the world where identical twins were head of the government (Prime Minister) and head of state (President) at the same time.\"\n\nThe Gierek Family (father-son)\n\nThe Giertych Family (father-son-grandson)\n\nThe Grabski Brothers\n\nThe Kaczyński Family (identical twins)\n\n\nThe Morawiecki Family (father-son)\n\nThe Wałęsa Family (father-son)\n\nThe Carmona and Carmona Rodrigues Family (granduncle-grandnephew)\n\nThe Soares Family (father-son)\n\nThe Portas Family (father-brothers)\n\nThe Menezes Family (father-son)\n\nThe Calderón Family \n\nThe Hernandez Family \n\nThe Muñoz Family \n\nThe Rivera Family \n\nThe Pesquera Family \n\nThe Romero Family \nThe Roselló Family\n\nThe Brătianu Family\n\nThe Băsescu Family (father, daughter, brother)\n\nThe Ponta-Sârbu Family (husband, wife, father-in-law)\n\nThe Artyukhov Family\n\nThe Brezhnev-Churbanov Family\n\nThe Budyonny-Peskov Family\n\nThe Glazyev-Sinelin Family (brothers-in-law, alumni, co-partisans)\n\nThe Gorbachev Family\n\nThe Kadyrov Family\n\nThe Khristenko-Golikova Family\n\nThe Kokov Family\n\nThe Kondratenko Family\n\nThe Kosygin-Primakov Family (somebodies-in-law via two marriages)\n\nThe Lebed Family\n\nThe Magomedov Family\n\nThe Patrushev Family\n\nThe Sobchak-Narusova Family\n\nThe Shoygu Family \n\nThe Stalin-Zhdanov Family (fathers of spouses)\n\nThe Tkachov Family\n\nThe Trotsky-Kamenev Family (brothers-in-law)\n\nThe Udaltsov Family\n\nThe Vorobyov Family\n\nThe Yeltsin Family (father-in-law and son-in-law)\n\nThe Zhirinovsky-Lebedev Family\n\nThe Zubkov-Serdyukov Family (father-in-law and son-in-law)\n\nThe Zyuganov Family\n\nThe Habyarimana Family and Kayibanda Family\n\nThe Cenac family (brother)\n\nThe Lewis family (father-son)\n\nThe Costa Alegre Family\n\nThe Trovoada Family (Father-son)\n\nThe Wade Family (father-son)\n\nThe Ferrari Family\n\nThe Margai Brothers\n\nThe Lee Family (Singapore)\n\nThe Chan Family\n\nThe Kemakeza Family\n\nSharmarke Family (Father-son)\nBarre Family (Brothers)\n\nThe De Klerk Family\nThe Mandela Family and Machel Family \n\nThe Marte Family \n\nThe Mbeki Family \n\nThe Ngcuka Family (husband-wife)\n\nThe Sisulu Family \n\nThe Slovo Family and First Families (husband-wife)\n\nThe Tambo Family\n\nThe Zuma Family (ex-spouses)\n\n\nThe Assad Family\nThe Atassi family\nThe al-Azm family\n\nHouse of Bernadotte\n\n\nBildt family\n\nBodström family\n\nBohman family\n\nCederschiöld family\n\nDe Geer family\n\nDouglas family\n\nHammarskjöld family\n\nHeckscher family\n\nLeijon family\n\nMyrdal family\n\nOhlin family\n\nReinfeldt family\n\nWallenberg family\n\n\nVejjajiva family\n\nShinawatra family\n\nThe Gnassingbé Family\n\nThe Olympio Family\n\nThe Capildeo family\nThe Fitzpatrick family\nThe Sinanan family\nThe Panday Family\nThe Maraj/Maharaj Family\n\nThe Bourguiba Family\n\nThe Ecevit Family (spouses)\n\nThe İnönü Family (father-son)\n\nThe Latasi Family\n\nThe Obote Family\n\nThe Museveni Family\n\nThe Kiwanuka Family\n\nThe Kakonge Family\n\nThe Lutwa Okello Family\n\nThe Lule Family\n\nThe Awori Family (Kenya and Uganda)\n\nThe Kuchma-Pinchuk Family (father-in-law and son-in-law)\n\n\nThe Arismendi Family (father and daughter)\n\nThe Batlle Family (grandfather, son, grandsons and great-grandson)\n\nThe Bauzá Family (father and son)\n\nThe Beltrán Family (father and son)\n\nThe Blanco Family (grandfather, sons and grandson)\n\nThe Bordaberry Family (grandfather, son and grandsons)\n\nThe Brum Brothers\n\nThe Cuestas Family (father and son)\n\nThe Demicheli Family (spouses)\n\nThe Ellauri Family (father, son and great grandson)\n\nThe Fernández Family (father and son)\n\nThe Forteza Family (father and son)\n\nThe Grauert Brothers\n\nThe Héber Family (brothers and son of one of them)\n\nThe Herrera Family (greatgrandfather, father and son)\n\nThe Hierro Family (grandfather, son and grandson)\n\nThe Jude Family (father and son)\n\nThe Michelini Family (father and sons)\n\nThe Mujica-Topolansky Family (spouses)\n\nThe Nin Brothers\n\nThe Pacheco Family\n\nThe Ramírez Family\n\nThe Saravia Family (brothers and descendant of one of them)\n\nThe Sanguinetti Family (cousins)\n\nThe Sendic Family (father and son)\n\nThe Stewart Family (descendant)\n\nThe Stirling Family (grandfather and grandson)\n\nThe Terra-Baldomir Family\n\nThe Tourné Family (uncle and niece)\n\nThe Wílliman Family (grandfather and grandson)\n\nThe Végh Family (father and son)\n\nThe Zorrilla de San Martín Family (grandfather and grandson)\n\nThe Karimov Family\n\nThe Lini Family\n\nThe Sokomanu-Sopé Family\n\nThe Chávez Family\nThe Sucre Family\n\nThe Ngô Family\n\nThe Iryani Family (uncle-nephew)\n\nThe Saleh Family (father-son)\n\nThe Al-Shaabi Family (brothers-in-law)\n\nThe Chiluba Family\n\nThe Kaunda Family\n\nThe Mujuru Family\n\nThe Mugabe-Chiyangwa Family\n\n"}
{"id": "38775264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38775264", "title": "Lord Haw-Haw", "text": "Lord Haw-Haw\n\nLord Haw-Haw was a nickname applied to the Irish-American William Joyce, who broadcast Nazi propaganda to Britain from Germany during the Second World War. The broadcasts opened with \"Germany calling, Germany calling\", spoken in an affected upper-class English accent.\n\nThe same nickname was also applied to some other broadcasters of English language propaganda from Germany, but it is Joyce with whom the name is now overwhelmingly identified. There are various theories about its origin.\n\nThe English language propaganda radio programme \"Germany Calling\" was broadcast to audiences in the United Kingdom on the medium wave station Reichssender Hamburg and by shortwave to the United States. The programme began on 18 September 1939 and continued until 30 April 1945, when the British Army overran Hamburg. The next scheduled broadcast was made by Horst Pinschewer (aka Geoffrey Perry), a German refugee serving in the British Army who announced the British takeover. Pinschewer was later responsible for the capture of William Joyce.\n\nThrough such broadcasts, the Reich Ministry of Public Enlightenment and Propaganda attempted to discourage and demoralise American, Australian, British, and Canadian troops, and the British population, to suppress the effectiveness of the Allied war effort through propaganda, and to motivate the Allies to agree to peace terms leaving the Nazi regime intact and in power. Among many techniques used, the Nazi broadcasts reported on the shooting down of Allied aircraft and the sinking of Allied ships, presenting discouraging reports of high losses and casualties among Allied forces. Although the broadcasts were well known to be Nazi propaganda, they frequently offered the only details available from behind enemy lines concerning the fate of friends and relatives who did not return from bombing raids over Germany. As a result, Allied troops and civilians frequently listened to Lord Haw-Haw's broadcasts despite the sometimes infuriating content and frequent inaccuracies and exaggerations, in the hopes of learning clues about the fate of Allied troops and air crews. Mass Observation interviews warned the Ministry of Information of this; consequently, more attention was given to the official reports of British military casualties.\n\nRadio critic Jonah Barrington of the \"Daily Express\" applied the phrase in describing a German broadcaster, in an attempt to reduce his possible impact: \"He speaks English of the haw-haw, dammit-get-out-of-my-way-variety\". In practice, the name probably came from the announcers using such verbiage as \"So you English believe that you can defeat the superior German forces! Haw, Haw,\" a low-brow putdown obviously meant as a discouragement to the opposition. The \"Haw, Haw\" name reference was then applied to a number of different announcers and, even soon after Barrington coined the nickname, it was uncertain exactly which specific German broadcaster he was describing. Some British media and listeners just used \"Lord Haw-Haw\" as a generic term to describe all English-language German broadcasters, although other nicknames, like \"Sinister Sam\", were occasionally used by the BBC to distinguish between obviously different speakers. Poor reception may have contributed to some listeners' difficulties in distinguishing between broadcasters.\n\nIn reference to the nickname, American pro-Nazi broadcaster Fred W. Kaltenbach was given the moniker \"Lord Hee-Haw\" by the British media. The \"Lord Hee-Haw\" name, however, was used for a time by \"The Daily Telegraph\" to refer to Lord Haw-Haw, generating some confusion between nicknames and broadcasters.\n\nA number of announcers could have been Lord Haw-Haw:\n\nWilliam Joyce replaced Mittler in 1939. Joyce was American-born and raised in Ireland and as a teenager he was an informant to the British forces about the IRA members during the Irish War of Independence. He was also a senior member of the British Union of Fascists and fled England when tipped off about his planned internment on 26 August 1939. In October 1939, the Fascist newspaper Action identified \"one of the subsidiary announcers\" on German radio, \"with a marked nasal intonation\", as one of its former members and distanced itself from him as a \"renegade\", whose broadcasts were \"likely only to rouse the fighting ire of the average Briton.\". In February 1940, the BBC noted that the Lord Haw-Haw of the early war days (possibly Mittler) was now rarely heard on the air and had been replaced by a new spokesman. Joyce was the main German broadcaster in English for most of the war, and became a naturalised German citizen; he is usually regarded as Lord Haw-Haw, even though he was probably not the person to whom the term originally referred. He had a peculiar hybrid accent that was not of the conventional upper class variety. His distinctive nasal pronunciation of \"Germany calling, Germany calling\" may have been the result of a fight as a schoolboy that left him with a broken nose.\n\nJoyce, initially an anonymous broadcaster like the others, eventually revealed his real name to his listeners. The Germans actually capitalised on the fame of the Lord Haw-Haw nickname and came to announce him as \"William Joyce, otherwise known as Lord Haw-Haw\".\n\nAfter Joyce took over, Mittler was paired with the American-born announcer Mildred Gillars in the Axis Sally programme and also broadcast to ANZAC forces in North Africa. Mittler survived the war and appeared on postwar German radio, and occasionally television, until his death. Baillie-Stewart was sentenced to five years' imprisonment. Joyce was captured by British forces in northern Germany just as the war ended, tried, and eventually hanged for treason on 3 January 1946. Joyce's defence team, appointed by the court, argued that, as an American citizen and naturalised German, Joyce could not be convicted of treason against the British Crown. However, the prosecution successfully argued that, since he had lied about his nationality to obtain a British passport and voted in Britain, Joyce owed allegiance to the king.\n\nAs J. A. Cole has written, \"the British public would not have been surprised if, in that Flensburg wood, Haw-Haw had carried in his pocket a secret weapon capable of annihilating an armoured brigade\". This mood was reflected in the wartime film \"Sherlock Holmes and the Voice of Terror\" (1942), starring Basil Rathbone and Nigel Bruce, in which Joyce's broadcasts are shown to predict actual disasters and defeats, thus seriously undermining British morale.\n\nOther British subjects willingly made propaganda broadcasts, including Raymond Davies Hughes, who broadcast on the German Radio Metropole, and John Amery. P. G. Wodehouse was tricked into broadcasting, not propaganda, but rather his own satiric accounts of his capture by the Germans and civil internment as an enemy alien, by a German friend who assured him that the talks would be broadcast only to neutral United States. They were, however, relayed to the UK on a little-known channel. An MI5 investigation, conducted shortly after Wodehouse's release from Germany, but published only after his death, found no evidence of treachery.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39801627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39801627", "title": "Medical Officer (AYUSH)", "text": "Medical Officer (AYUSH)\n\nMedical Officer (AYUSH) is a title used in many states of India for junior government official designated for providing medical care and health services at district hospitals, community health centers and primary health centers. The post is held by a physician who has a recognized degree/diploma in Ayurveda, Unani, Siddha, Homeopathy etc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "949354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=949354", "title": "National Government (United Kingdom)", "text": "National Government (United Kingdom)\n\nIn the United Kingdom, National Government is an abstract concept of a coalition of some or all major political parties. In a historical sense it usually refers primarily to the governments of Ramsay MacDonald, Stanley Baldwin and Neville Chamberlain which held office from 1931 until 1940.\n\nThe all-party coalitions of Herbert Henry Asquith and David Lloyd George in the First World War and of Winston Churchill in the Second World War were sometimes referred to as National Governments at the time, but are now more commonly called Coalition Governments. The term \"National Government\" was chosen to dissociate itself from negative connotations of the earlier Coalitions. Churchill's brief 1945 \"Caretaker Government\" also called itself a National Government and in terms of party composition was very similar to the 1931–1940 entity.\n\nThe Wall Street Crash heralded the global Great Depression and Britain was hit, although not as badly as most countries. The government was trying to achieve several different, contradictory objectives: trying to maintain Britain's economic position by maintaining the pound on the gold standard, balancing the budget, and providing assistance and relief to tackle unemployment. The gold standard meant that British prices were higher than its competitors, so the all-important export industries did poorly.\n\nIn 1931 the situation deteriorated and there was much fear that the budget was unbalanced, which was born out by the independent May Report which triggered a confidence crisis and a run on the pound. The Labour government agreed in principle to make changes in taxation and to cut expenditure to balance the budget and restore confidence. However the Cabinet could not agree on the two options available: either introduce tariffs (taxes on imports) or make 20% cuts in unemployment benefit. In the end, MacDonald and Snowden drafted a proposal that would cut benefits by 10%. Even this was rejected by the Trade Unions, however. When a final vote was taken, the Cabinet was split 11-9 with a minority, including many political heavyweights such as Arthur Henderson and George Lansbury, threatening to resign rather than agree. The unworkable split, on 24 August 1931, made the government resign.\n\nThe financial crisis grew worse and decisive government action was needed as the leaders of both the Conservative and Liberal Parties met with King George V, and MacDonald, at first to discuss support for the measures to be taken but later to discuss the shape of the next government. MacDonald had originally wished to tender his resignation but was told to re-consider by the King on the grounds that the majority of opposition MPs and the country at large supported the cuts proposed by the May Report, even if the Labour Party and the Trade Unions led by Ernest Bevin did not. MacDonald duly changed his mind during the night and met with the Conservative and Liberal MPs the following morning. On 24 August, MacDonald agreed and formed a National Government composed of men from all parties with the specific aim of balancing the Budget and restoring confidence. The new cabinet had four Labourites (now called \"National Labour Party\") who stood with MacDonald, plus four Conservatives (led by Baldwin and Chamberlain) and two Liberals. Labour unions were strongly opposed and the Labour Party officially repudiated the new National government. It expelled MacDonald and made Henderson the leader of the main Labour party. Henderson led it into the general election on 27 October against the three-party National coalition. It was a disaster for Labour, which was reduced to a small minority of 52. MacDonald won the largest landslide in British political history.\n\nThe Government was initially applauded by most, but the Labour Party were left in a state of confusion with the loss of several of their most prominent figures, and MacDonald, Philip Snowden and James Henry Thomas did little to explain themselves, with the result that the Labour Party soon swung fully against the government. This was in part because of the Trade Unions' decision to oppose all forms of cuts proposed by MacDonald and Snowden in response to the May Report, which had concluded the UK government needed to curb government expenditure to reduce the budget deficit amid the fallout from the Great Depression that began in 1929. The May Report in particular recommended to MacDonald that his Labour government cut unemployment benefit by 20%. The Trade Unions that represented a large proportion of the Labour party's base refused to support any cuts to benefits or wages except to \"the salaries of Ministers\". Efforts to bring public expenditure cuts produced further problems, including a mutiny in the Royal Navy over pay cuts (the Invergordon Mutiny), with the result that the pound sterling came under renewed pressure, and the government was forced to take the radical step of taking the pound off the gold standard altogether.\n\nDebate then broke out about further steps to tackle the economic problems. At the same time the Labour Party officially expelled all of its members who supported the National Government, including MacDonald. Increasingly, the majority of the Cabinet came to believe that a protective tariff was necessary to support British industry and provide revenue and that a general election should be fought to secure a mandate but this was anathema to the Liberal Party. The Liberals' acting leader and Home Secretary, Sir Herbert Samuel, fought in Cabinet against an election but found the Liberal Party dividing in several directions over the course of action. One group, under Sir John Simon emerged as the Liberal Nationals, was prepared to accept the tariff and expressed willingness to take the place of the main Liberals in the government. The party's official leader, David Lloyd George was incapacitated at this time but called for the Liberals to abandon the government altogether and stand independently in defence of free trade, but his call was heeded only by four other MPs, all of whom were his close relatives.\n\nIt was eventually agreed that the government as a whole would seek a \"Doctor's Mandate\" to take a free hand and that each party would issue its own manifesto. Supporters of MacDonald formed the National Labour Organisation and the parties agreed to allow their local organisations to agree whether or not to oppose each other. The government was opposed by the Labour Party, Lloyd George and his Liberals and the New Party of Sir Oswald Mosley. Within the parties there was particular conflict between the Conservatives and Liberals. The campaign for the 1931 general election run by the National Government was based mainly on fear of a repeat of events, which had occurred in Germany during the start of Great Depression, in Britain, and MacDonald famously waved worthless German Deutschemarks to emphasise the point. The result of the 1931 general election was the greatest landslide ever, the National Government winning a total of 556 seats and a Parliamentary majority of 500.\n\nAlthough the Conservatives had a bare majority in Cabinet of 11, compared to 9 non-Conservatives, the former held comparatively few of the most important jobs. The two groups of Liberals were similarly unbalanced in terms of posts, the official Liberals holding one more seat than the National Liberals, despite the parliamentary position being reversed. That balance was to cause tensions, particularly as the Diehard wing of the Conservative party felt unrepresented.\n\nThe government entered protracted wrangling over whether or not to introduce tariffs. Both the Liberals and Snowden found it particularly difficult to accept but were in a heavy minority. However, both MacDonald and Baldwin wished to maintain the multiparty nature of the Government. On the suggestion of Hailsham, it was agreed to suspend the principle of Cabinet collective responsibility to allow the Liberals to oppose the introduction of tariffs while remaining in government. This would hold for some months.\n\nIn 1932, Sir Donald MacLean died. MacDonald came under pressure not to merely appoint another Liberal, particularly as it was felt that they would be over-represented, and so instead appointed the Conservative Lord Irwin (later Lord Halifax). Further tensions emerged over the Ottawa Agreement, which set up a series of tariff agreements within the British Empire, and the remaining Liberals and Snowden resigned their ministerial posts although they continued to support the government from the backbenches for another year. MacDonald considered resigning as well to allow a party government to take office but was persuaded to remain even though his health was now in decline. In domestic politics, he increasingly allowed Baldwin to give a lead, but in foreign affairs, the main direction was determined by MacDonald and Simon.\n\nThe most prominent policy of the National Government in the early 1930s was the proposal to introduce Indian Home Rule, a measure fiercely opposed by the Diehard wing of the Conservative party, with Winston Churchill one of the most open opponents. The bill was fiercely opposed but eventually passed in 1947 in very different circumstances.\n\nWith MacDonald's health failing, he retired as Prime Minister in June 1935, to be succeeded by Baldwin.\n\nIncreasingly foreign affairs were coming to dominate political discourse and in November Baldwin led the government to victory in the 1935 general election on a platform of support for the League of Nations and sanctions against Italy for invading Abyssinia. The following month a massive storm developed when it emerged that the new Foreign Secretary, Sir Samuel Hoare, had negotiated the Hoare-Laval Pact which proposed to cede most of Abyssinia to Italy. Many were outraged, including many government MPs, and the agreement was dropped and Hoare sacked, though he later returned to government. The government sponsored a series of conferences to enable more home rule in India and other colonies.\n\nBaldwin's last years in office were seen as a period of drift, but in late 1936 he achieved a notable triumph in resolving the Edward VIII abdication crisis without major repercussions. Baldwin took the opportunity of George VI's coronation as an opportune moment to retire.\n\nNeville Chamberlain was seen by many as the only possible successor to Baldwin, and his appointment as Prime Minister was widely credited with bringing a new dynamism to the government. With a strong track record as a radical Minister of Health and competent Chancellor of the Exchequer many expected Chamberlain to provide a strong lead in domestic affairs and here the government had a number of successes, such as over the nationalisation of coal mining royalties, the curtailing of excess working hours by the Factory Act and much slum clearance. Another success was the 1938 Holidays with Pay Act, which gave a fortnight's paid holiday a year to workers, starting in 1939. The school leaving age was also to be increased from Autumn 1939, but was deferred as war loomed. Further reforms were curtailed by the increased international tension which came to occupy most of his time.\n\nIn foreign affairs, the government sought to increase Britain's armaments, while maintaining the unity of the Empire and Dominions and preventing any one power from becoming dominant on the continent of Europe. These proved increasingly difficult to reconcile, as many Dominions were reluctant to support Britain in the event of her going to war, and so military action risked splitting the Empire. Chamberlain took a strong personal lead in foreign affairs and sought to bring about peaceful revision of European frontiers in areas where many commentators had long-acknowledged grievances. In this, he received much popular support at the time, but the policy has been much attacked since. The most prominent point in the policy of appeasement came in September 1938, when the Munich Agreement was negotiated. Following the agreement, the government sped up the re-armament process in the hope of being ready for war when it came. At the same time, it took a tougher line in foreign affairs, including making a guarantee to defend Poland against Germany.\n\nWhen Germany invaded Poland in September 1939, Britain declared war in tandem with France, supported by all of the Dominions except Ireland. For some time there had been calls to expand Chamberlain's war ministry by bringing in members of the official Labour and Liberal parties but the latter refused to join. For the first few months of war Britain saw comparatively little action apart from at sea, but the failure of the Norwegian campaign led to a massive outcry in Parliament.\nOn 7 and 8 May 1940, a two-day debate took place in Parliament, known to history as the Norway Debate. Initially a discussion of what had gone wrong in that field, it soon turned into a general debate on the conduct of the war with fierce criticism expressed by all sides of the House. The government won the debate, albeit with a reduced majority, but over the next two days it became increasingly clear that Labour and the Liberals would have to be brought into government and that Chamberlain was unable to achieve this. On 10 May 1940, Germany invaded the Low Countries and Chamberlain finally bowed to pressure and resigned, bringing the life of the National Government to a close. It was succeeded by an all-party coalition headed by Winston Churchill.\n\nIn May 1945, following the defeat of Germany the coalition government broke up and Churchill formed a new administration, including Conservatives, Liberal Nationals and various non-party individuals who had been previously appointed to Ministerial posts. However, significantly, with the exception of the Earl of Rosebery, there were no other Liberal Nationals in the Cabinet, excluding even the Lord Chancellor Lord Simon. This government nevertheless used the title National Government and could be seen as the heir to the 1930s governments, even though the personnel were very different. The government fought the 1945 general election as a National Government but lost.\n\nFollowing the defeat, elements of the old National Government 'all party coalition' idea continued with Sir John Anderson (elected as a National MP) and Gwilym Lloyd-George, a former Liberal MP who now sat as an Independent Liberal, occupying important positions in Churchill's Shadow Cabinet team. In addition the Liberal Nationals (National Liberals from 1947–48 onwards) also kept a semi-separate existence and did not finally disappear until 1968, the last political legacy of what happened in the crisis of August 1931.\n\n"}
{"id": "16085524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16085524", "title": "Netherlands Institute for Multiparty Democracy", "text": "Netherlands Institute for Multiparty Democracy\n\nThe Netherlands Institute for Multiparty Democracy (NIMD; Dutch: \"Nederlands Instituut voor Meerpartijendemocratie\") works to promote peaceful, just and inclusive politics worldwide. NIMD's approach is characterized by dialogue, which it facilitates for actors across the political spectrum at the local, national and regional level. The organization's values are based on inclusiveness, pluralism and equality, and it supports joint initiatives of political parties and other stakeholders to improve the functioning of multiparty democracies around the world.\n\nThe institute was founded in 2000 by seven parties across the Dutch political spectrum (CDA, PvdA, VVD, Groenlinks, Democrats 66, Christen Unie and SGP). Former Dutch Minister of Defence, Eimert van Middelkoop, is Chair of the Supervisory Council of NIMD.\n\nNIMD currently works with over 150 political parties from more than 20 countries in Africa, Latin America, the MENA region, Southeast Asia and Eastern Europe. The Institute promotes interparty dialogue between politicians, providing the opportunity to build trust and create mutual relationship among political parties. Moreover, interparty dialogue can create consensus and help to find solutions to challenges. NIMD also uses dialogue to create a safe meeting space for politicians and parties to meet and adopt policies to reform their nations.\n\nA core part of NIMD's work is its Democracy Schools. The organization sets up Democracy Schools around the world, which run courses for young and aspiring politicians who want to gain knowledge and skills on democratic theory and governance. The schools also provide specialized training for established politicians seeking learn about areas such as legislative drafting, debate techniques and internal party democratization. Some alumni of NIMD's Democracy School programmes have later entered public office and passed legislation in areas such as campaign finance transparency and the prevention of violence against women. \n\nThrough all its programmes, NIMD aims to promote the political participation of youth and women. NIMD strives to give these and other marginalized groups a seat at the table by, for example, promoting gender parity in its activities, and helping parties to break down internal barriers to the participation of minorities. \n\n"}
{"id": "5462391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5462391", "title": "Netroots Nation", "text": "Netroots Nation\n\nNetroots Nation is a political convention for American progressive political activists, originally organized by readers and writers of Daily Kos, a liberal political blog. It was previously called YearlyKos.\n\nNetroots Nation 2019 will be held July 11-13 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania at the Pennsylvania Convention Center.\n\nThe first YearlyKos was held in Las Vegas, from June 8–11, 2006. It was held at the Riviera Hotel and Casino There were 1,200 attendees, and featured prominent Democrats such as Harry Reid, Howard Dean, and Barbara Boxer, as well as three possible contenders in the 2008 Democratic primary: retired General Wesley Clark, New Mexico governor Bill Richardson, and former Virginia governor Mark Warner.\n\nThe convention also consisted of panels, roundtable discussion groups, and other gatherings of activists, members of the media and elected officials. Democracy for America and the Center for American Progress were among the groups offering training sessions. Many of the panels were broadcast on C-SPAN.\n\nThe convention also received a significant amount of coverage in the traditional media, including a write-up in the New York Times that said this event “seems on its way to becoming as much a part of the Democratic political circuit as the Iowa State Fair.”\n\nGina Cooper served as the Founder and first Director of YearlyKos, later to be Netroots Nation.\n\nThe 2007 YearlyKos was held at the McCormick Place Convention Center in Chicago, Illinois from August 2–5.\n\nSeven of the eight major Democratic Presidential candidates attended the Convention in a debate moderated by bloggers. The candidates were Hillary Clinton, Chris Dodd, John Edwards, Mike Gravel, Dennis Kucinich, Barack Obama, Bill Richardson. The most memorable moment was when Hillary Clinton refused to join John Edwards and Barack Obama's pledge to stop taking money from Washington lobbyists.\n\nBefore and after the debate the candidates held their own break-out sessions.\n\nMedia coverage called out the emergence of the Netroots in current political discourse (“Liberal bloggers can count the ways they are making their presence felt in the presidential race.” –Chicago Tribune) and beyond 2008 (“The Netroots appear to be here to stay. Much of the debate at this year’s conference is aimed not at defining who the group is but rather at on what the group should do in 2008 and beyond.” –Chris Cillizza, Washington Post).\n\nHouse Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid were expected to appear, but were held up in Washington due to various votes. On Saturday night of the Convention, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the controversial FISA legislation to expand George W. Bush's powers.\n\nAfter rebranding to Netroots Nation to better reflect the growing influence and membership of the netroots as a whole rather than just Daily Kos, the 2008 convention was held in Austin, Texas at the Austin Convention Center from July 17–20. Prominent speakers in 2008 included Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, who was joined on stage by a surprise guest, former Vice President Al Gore.\n\nOther prominent speakers included Gov. Howard Dean, Harold Ford, Lawrence Lessig, Rep. Donna Edwards and Van Jones.\n\nOn Saturday night, Gina Cooper announced the end of her tenure as Director of Netroots Nation.\n\nIn 2009, Netroots Nation was held at Pittsburgh's David L. Lawrence Convention Center, on August 13–16. Pittsburgh was chosen in part because it is a leader in LEED Certified green building technology; it has more square footage of green buildings than any other city in the country. Another reason was Pittsburgh's rich labor union history. Prominent speakers included President Bill Clinton, Valerie Jarrett, former Vermont Gov. Howard Dean, SEIU's Anna Burger, former New Jersey Governor Jon Corzine and Dean Baker. There was also a debate between Pennsylvania Senate candidates Rep. Joe Sestak and Sen. Arlen Specter.\n\nThe keynote speaker was former US President Bill Clinton. The event captured international headlines when the Democratic Congressional leadership seemingly abandoned the \"public option\" during the Health Care debate and Howard Dean spoke forcefully that the party would reconsider this issue and not compromise on it. Former President Bill Clinton also made headlines in Pittsburgh when responding to a question shouted at him during his speech, concerning gay rights and the military. Clinton quipped at a shouting audience member, \"You know you should go to one of those Congressional health care meetings,\" and went on to say that the implementation of the policy was not what he envisioned or how it was originally defined and that it was ridiculous that $150,000 was spent \"to get rid of an Arabic translator\" and that 130 servicemen and -women known to be gay were allowed to serve in the first Gulf War until \"they kicked them out.\"\n\nThe 2010 Netroots Nation conference was held in the Las Vegas Valley at the Rio All Suite Hotel and Casino. About 2,200 attended the conference. More than 200 media covered this year's conference including CNN, Univision, AP, Politico and many others.\n\nThere were 70 panels, screening series and a Campaign Academy with 30 hands-on training sessions. These trainings, organized with the help of Democracy for America, featured professionals from dozens of organizations and publications in the progressive movement. Along with the panels and trainings there were seven keynote sessions. Two of the keynotes were question-and-answer sessions: Ask the Speaker with Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Ask the Leader with Majority Leader Harry Reid.\nA memorable moment came when Reid made an on-stage promise to Lt. Dan Choi to repeal Don't Ask, Don't Tell.\n\nProminent speakers included Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Majority Leader Harry Reid, Sen. Al Franken, Elizabeth Warren, Gov. Brian Schweitzer, Ed Schultz, Sen. Jeff Merkley, Sen. Ben Cardin, Sen. Tom Udall, Rep. Alan Grayson, Rep. Raul Grijalva, Rep. Jared Polis, Rep. Donna Edwards, Rep. Jerrold Nadler, Van Jones, Rich Trumka, Tim Wise, Lizz Winstead, Majora Carter, Markos Moulitsas, Tarryl Clark, Bill Halter, Phaedra Ellis-Lamkins, Gerald McEntee and Eliseo Medina. During his speech, Sen. Franken (D-MN) argued against media consolidation and for net neutrality laws. He said, in part, \"If we don't protect Net Neutrality now, how long do you think it will take before Comcast-NBC Universal, or Verizon-CBS Viacom or AT&T-ABC-DirecTV or BP-Haliburton-Walmart-Fox-Domino's-Pizza start favoring its content over everyone else's?\"\n\nThe 2011 Netroots Nation was held June 16–19 in Minneapolis, Minnesota, and drew 2,400 people. Prominent featured speakers included Rep. Debbie Wasserman-Schultz, former Senator Russ Feingold, Minneapolis mayor R. T. Rybak, former Vermont governor Howard Dean, Van Jones, White House Communications Director Daniel Pfeiffer, John Aravosis, Shannon Augare, Senator Mark Begich, Senator Ben Cardin, Rep. Judy Chu, Lt. Dan Choi, Rep. Keith Ellison, Tarryl Clark, Dr. Heidi Cullen, Rep. Donna Edwards, Maj. Gen. Paul Eaton, Laura Flanders, Sen. Al Franken, Rep. John Garamendi, Rep. Luis Gutierrez, Jane Hamsher and Montana State Rep. Ellie Hill.\n\nNetroots Nation 2011 also had an international presence, with bloggers and activists from 24 countries—including Germany, Morocco, Yemen, Iran, Kyrgyzstan, Afghanistan and China—participating. The conference culminated with the first ever Freedom from Fear Awards program, which highlighted fearless immigration activism and featured an original song from Jill Sobule.\n\nNetroots Nation 2012 was held June 7–10 in Providence, Rhode Island at the Rhode Island Convention Center.\n\nProminent featured speakers included Rebuild the Dream co-founder Van Jones, NAACP President Benjamin Jealous, Congressman David Cicilline (RI-01), winner of the Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel and NY Times op-ed columnist, Paul Krugman, Carol Shea-Porter, AFL-CIO’s Rich Trumka, President of AFT Randi Weingarten, soon-to-be elected senators Elizabeth Warren, Mazie Hirono and Tammy Baldwin, Ai-jen Poo - National Domestic Workers Alliance director, and Rhode Island State Representatives Teresa Tanzi and Chuck Rocha.\n\nNetroots Nation 2013 was held June 20–23 in San Jose, California and was attended by about 3,000 activists, its largest crowd ever. Jeff Merkley held the opening keynote speech. On June 22, Nancy Pelosi participated in a Q&A session and was booed by the audience for saying that Edward Snowden had broken the law by revealing information about the NSA’s surveillance programs and for defending Barack Obama on the issue.\n\nNetroots Nation 2014 was held at Cobo Center in Detroit, Michigan on July 17–21, 2014. Keynote speakers included Senator Elizabeth Warren, Vice-President Joe Biden and Rev. Dr. William Barber II. Actor Mark Ruffalo also attended the event after the Detroit Water and Sewerage Department stopped water service for more than 15,000 households in the city that had not paid their water bill.\n\nThe Netroots Nation 2015 conference was scheduled for mid-summer July 16 in Phoenix, Arizona. The 2015 convention was one of the most diverse events to date. A majority of panelists were people of color (62%) and women (63%). This also was a year where the focus of convention was Latinx and immigration issues. A record 280 scholarships for DREAMers and organizers of color were distributed, helping them gain access to activist trainings throughout the event. The Netroots community also participated in a large demonstration against Sheriff Joe Arapaio.\n\nRepresentative Donna Edwards was the opening keynote speaker. Senator Elizabeth Warren was also among those that gave riveting keynote addresses.\n\nOn July 18, 2015, former Maryland Governor Martin O'Malley was interrupted while answering questions at the conference by protestors associated with the Black Lives Matter movement. Black Alliance for Just Immigration staffer and Coordinator of the Black Immigration Network Tia Oso took the stage with O'Malley as the protest group chanted \"Black Lives Matter\" and \"Say Her Name\" while calling out the names of black women killed in police custody. Pressed to address his position on the Black Lives Matter movement, O'Malley stated, \"Black lives matter, White lives matter, All lives matter,\" drawing boos from the crowd.\n\nUpon Martin O'Malley's exit, Senator Bernie Sanders stepped onto the stage to make his remarks. When protest chants erupted again, Senator Sanders could be heard speaking to the host, saying \"It's fine\" if the conference hosts wanted to yield the floor to the protestors, but that he didn't want to play a game of shouting over one another. Sanders went on to make his remarks and give a brief Question & Answer period.\n\nNetroots Nation was held in St. Louis, Missouri, from July 14–17, 2016. The Convention kicked off with a keynote hosted by This Week In Blackness with hosts Elon James White, L. Joy Williams, and Sonya Renee Taylor interviewed many notable activists including: Jamala Rogers of Organization for Black Struggle; Rika Tyler of Hands Up United; Elle Hearns of Black Lives Matter; Rev. Sekou, Pastor, Author, Theologian and fellow at the Martin Luther King Institute at Stanford; Tef Poe, hip hop artist and co-leader of Hands Up United; CeCe McDonald; Brittany Ferrell and Alexis Templeton of Millennial Activists United.\n\nFriday's keynote included discussion about the intersection of climate change and environmental justice. Speakers included Tom Steyer, president of NextGen Climate; Jacqui Patterson, director of the NAACP’s Environmental and Climate Justice Program; Michelle Romero of Green for All; and Anthony Rogers-Wright, Policy and Organizing Director for Environmental Action. Friday also featured a plenary roundtable discussion on digital culture shifting and increasing racial justice. Speakers included leaders on the frontlines of the 21st century movement for racial justice and civil rights, such as Color of Change’s Rashad Robinson, Linda Sarsour of MPower, Autumn Marie of Black Lives Matter, Malkia Cyril of the Center for Media Justice, and Joe Torres of Free Press. The session was moderated by Samhita Mukhopadhyay of Mic.\n\nSaturday's morning keynote included discussions on the state of abortion access and reproductive justice, including speakers Lizz Winstead of Lady Parts Justice, Pamela Merritt of ReproAction, Laura Jimenez of California Leaders for Reproductive Justice, Aimee Thorne-Thomsen of SisterSong and Representative Jan Schakowsky.\n\nThe closing keynote on Saturday included speakers like Representative Keith Ellison and New York Times bestselling author Steve Phillips, who spoke about the importance of fighting together for equality and progress (and against Donald Trump). Attendees also heard from Equality Florida’s Carlos Guillermo Smith, who shared stories and experiences from his hometown of Orlando. Joseph Geevarghese and Brittany Butler with Good Jobs Nation talked about ways American workers can stand up for their economic values. In a video message, Hillary Clinton proposed an amendment to the United States Constitution to reverse the \"Citizens United v. FEC\" Supreme Court decision, as well as call for more funding to deal with implicit bias. Angel kyoto Williams closed out the 2016 convention with an uplifting meditation.\n\nThe 2017 Netroots Nation was held on August 10–13, 2017 in Atlanta, Georgia at the Hyatt Regency Atlanta. This convention was the most diverse event to date, with 69 percent of selected speakers and moderators being people of color. Panels featured activists from across the country, members of Congress, top digital practitioners, and those at the forefront of the latest Resistance efforts. A sampling of panel topics include: Making Congress Listen: How to Transform Trump Anger and Movement Energy into Victories on Capitol Hill, Resistance Through the Courts: Our First Line of Defense Against Trump’s Agenda, Pivoting Left: How We Win by Standing Up for Working Families and Embracing Progressive Values, States Resisting: Working with State Lawmakers to Fight the Conservative Agenda, and Leaving It All on the Field: The Midterm Elections in the Resistance Era. As the conference ended, many participants, led by labor organizer Dolores Huerta and others, took to the street to march to the State Capitol Building in protest over the right-wing violence in Charlottesville, VA shortly before which resulted in the death of Heather Heyer.\n\nNetroots Nation 2018 was held August 2–4 in New Orleans, Louisiana; attendance estimated at 3,000. Speakers included Sens. Elizabeth Warren, Cory Booker and Kamala Harris, as well as newcomer candidates Cynthia Nixon, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, and Idaho gubernatorial candidate Paulette Jordan, who gave the closing keynote.\n\nNetroots Nation has been featured in numerous references in popular culture, primarily in cable news. After Bill O'Reilly compared Yearly Kos to Nazis, \"The Colbert Report\" on August 7, 2007 and The Daily Show aired clips.\n\n"}
{"id": "3653350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3653350", "title": "Oleo Strut (coffeehouse)", "text": "Oleo Strut (coffeehouse)\n\nThe Oleo Strut was a GI Coffeehouse located in Killeen, Texas, from 1968 to 1972. Like its namesake, a shock absorber in the landing gear of most large aircraft and many smaller ones, the Oleo Strut’s purpose was to help GIs land softly. Upon returning from Vietnam to Fort Hood, shell-shocked soldiers found solace amongst the Strut’s regulars, mostly fellow soldiers and a few civilian sympathizers. The GIs turned the Oleo Strut into one of Texas’s anti-war headquarters, publishing an underground anti-war newspaper, organizing boycotts, setting up a legal office, and leading peace marches.\n\nThe coffeehouse was an organizing center for the support of the Fort Hood 43, a group of Black soldiers who had been disciplined for refusing to perform riot control duty at the Democratic National Convention in Chicago. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102987", "title": "Paddle (spanking)", "text": "Paddle (spanking)\n\nA spanking paddle is an implement used to strike a person on the buttocks. The act of spanking a person with a paddle is known as \"paddling\". A paddling may be for punishment (normally of a student at school in the United States), or as an initiation or hazing ritual.\n\nA paddle has two parts: a handle and a blade. Most paddles are designed to be held with one hand, but a giant paddle may be designed to be held with two hands. The blade is typically 3 to wide, 1/4-inch thick, and 1 to in length.\n\nIn the great majority of cases, the paddle is aimed at the recipient's buttocks. Less commonly, the back of the thighs might also be targeted.\n\nPaddles for use in schools are made of wood, or occasionally plastic. Paddles used for school punishments may be roughly hewn from commonly available wood. Occasionally, paddles may have holes drilled into them, so there is less air drag when the paddle approaches the buttocks, and produces more sting. The paddles used for fraternity and sorority initiation ceremonies are often professionally made and engraved with organizational symbols and slogans.\n\nThe paddle may have been originally invented for the punishment of slaves as a way of causing intense pain without doing any permanent damage to the recipient. It is not only in former slave states that the paddle has been used in schools. It is not known why or exactly when it became the normal implement for corporal punishment in US schools. There are however instances of paddling using similar implements with individuals who were not slaves.\n\nPaddling was mainly used in many parts of the United States (and still is, in a few areas) as a means to discipline misbehaving school students. Paddling has also been used in some homes to punish children. The results of a national household survey indicate that paddling is a discipline technique that 10% of parents are \"very likely to use\". The percentage of parents who say that they are very likely to paddle increases to 12% when involving teenagers.\n\nThe paddle is the almost invariable implement in US schools that still allow corporal punishment for student misconduct. Some paddles have traditionally had holes bored in them for aerodynamic effect, but many schools nowadays prohibit the use of such paddles.\n\nPaddling typically causes a slight reddening of the skin but in some cases can cause bruises that are \"visible for approximately two weeks\". Whether or not particular bruises constitute evidence of \"serious injury\" or \"abuse\" or \"child maltreatment\" depends on individual circumstances and can ultimately be settled only by a court of law.\n\nThere have been cases in the past when paddling was administered incorrectly or excessively. Partly in order to avoid this danger, in the majority of U.S. schools, paddling is more strictly regulated than in the past, many schools publishing detailed rules in their student handbooks. It is usually a requirement that a professional witness be present. Currently, there is often a maximum of three swats (or \"licks\" or \"pops\"). In the past, paddlings of up to 30 licks were not unknown, especially in rural schools. Practice has gradually moved from paddlings in the classroom or hallway to paddlings administered out of the sight of other students, typically in the principal's office. \"Hallway\" paddlings could typically be seen by other students, administrators or even outsiders visiting the school.\n\nIn 1981, a 17-year-old student claimed bleeding wounds as a result of a school paddling. It was alleged that the assistant principal who had administered the punishment had held and swung the paddle with \"two\" hands. In order to prevent such claims, a school district currently may choose to require the handle of a spanking paddle to be \"just large enough for a normal one-hand grip\". Or a rule might provide that the handle shall not be more than long (just large enough to be held with one hand).\n\nIn 1982, a nine-year-old student was hit with a wooden paddle that was cracked. This caused a bleeding wound that became a permanent scar. To avoid this, nowadays some school districts have adopted rules which prohibit using paddles that have cracks in them. For example, the policies of Bloomfield School District provide that, \"Corporal punishment will be administered by spanking the buttocks of a student with a flat-surfaced paddle which is smoothly sanded and has no cracks or holes and that will cause no more than temporary pain and not inflict permanent damage to the body.\"\n\nA paddling is typically administered with two or more school employees present. The student may be ordered to bend over a chair or desk and, in that position, receive the prescribed number of strokes of the paddle. Paddling usually occurs in an office but may sometimes occur in a hallway. The punishment is delivered across the seat of the student's trousers or skirt.\n\nIn order to avoid allegations of sexual abuse, many school districts require that a female teacher be present during the paddling of a female student. A school might also \"recommend\" \"that female staff members administer corporal punishment to female students (middle and high school)\". Or a school board might \"prescribe\" that a \"female principal(s) or designee shall spank or paddle female students\" and that a \"male principal(s) or designee shall spank or paddle male students.\"\n\nAs of April 2011, 19 states allow corporal punishment in public schools. See School corporal punishment in the United States for further information.\n\n\nThe paddle is also a favorite implement for non-disciplinary \"fun\" spankings such as \"birthday spankings,\" as also for paddle games (such as trading blows) or a spanking pyramid or paddle machine. A paddle machine can be used in conjunction with a spanking bench. Numerous celebrities, including Jessica Jaymes, Jennifer Krum, Haydn Porter, Tabitha Stevens and Victoria Zdrok, have mounted Howard Stern's spanking bench to be paddled by his paddle machine, the \"Robospanker\". Paddles are also used by practitioners of erotic spanking.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51366402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51366402", "title": "Papuan unification", "text": "Papuan unification\n\nThe unification (or re-unification) of Papua New Guinea (or East Papua), an independent state, and West Papua (or Western New Guinea), a territory of Indonesia, both parts of the New Guinea island, has been raised since the second half of the 20th century.\n\nWest Papuans have conducted various protests and ceremonies raising their flag for independence or federation with Papua New Guinea\n\n"}
{"id": "2058731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058731", "title": "Partition (law)", "text": "Partition (law)\n\nA partition is a term used in the law of real property to describe an act, by a court order or otherwise, to divide up a concurrent estate into separate portions representing the proportionate interests of the owners of property. It is sometimes described as a forced sale. Under the common law, any owner of property who owns an undivided concurrent interest in land can seek such a division. In some cases, the parties agree to a specific division of the land; if they are unable to do so, the court will determine an appropriate division. A sole owner, or several owners, of a piece of land may partition their land by entering a deed poll (sometimes referred to as \"carving out\").\n\nForced sales generally occur because owners of property are unable to agree upon certain aspects of the ownership. The owners may disagree on how to use the property, on the amount of money to invest into the property, or on their right to occupy and use the whole of the property. If the parties cannot come to an agreement, the case moves to court through a petition to partition action. As the number of co-habitants increases in the United States, the petition to partition action has become more common as a remedy to divide real and personal property.\n\nProperty may be owned by more than one person either as joint tenants, tenants in common, and in some states tenants by the entirety. The choice of which tenancy to enter into is made by the parties at the time of purchase. With each type of tenancy, each owner has the right to occupy the whole. That means that an owner is not allowed to designate certain rooms as their own and so on. Each element of the property is enjoyed fully by all parties.\n\nThere are three kinds of partition which can be awarded by court: \"partition in kind\", \"partition by allotment\", and \"partition by sale\".\n\nA provision in a deed completely prohibiting partition will not be given effect, but courts will enforce a provision that temporarily restricts partition, as long as the restriction is reasonable.\n\nThe Ontario Partition Act, R.S.O. 1990, c. P.4, states:\n\nFlorida provides for partition actions by statute, Chapter 64, which basically provides that any co-owner of real estate may seek partition. In Florida, there are basically no defenses to a partition action, other than if the parties have agreed not to partition the real estate.\n\nIn D’Arcy v. Buckley, 71 Bucks Co. L. Rep. 167 (1997), two people purchased property as joint tenants with right of survivorship. The plaintiff contributed five times more than the defendant toward the purchase price. In a partition action, the plaintiff sought credit for the full amount of his superior contributions. The Court held that, in the absence of fraud, the working of the deed operated to convey a one-half interest to each of the two joint tenants. The decision relies the authorities of Masgai v. Masgai, 460 Pa. 453, 333 A.2d 861 (1975), and DeLoatch v. Murphy, 369 Pa. Super. 255, 535 A.2d 146 (1987). The plaintiff argued, to no avail, that he did not intend to make a lifetime gift to defendant.\n\nPartition in kind is favored, Cal. Civ. Proc. Code § 872.810, but partition by sale is allowed if a partition by sale maximizes the market value of the subject property(s).\n\nIn many cases, a two-step process may be required: (1) a trial, during which oral and documentary evidence is heard, and either affirms or denies the right of the moving party to effect a partition of the subject property(s), and, if affirmed, results in an interlocutory judgment (sometimes called a \"first interlocutory judgment\"), and (2) particularly in a contested partition, an evidentiary hearing (also a trial), usually after the property(s) have been appraised by experts, and during which trial additional oral and documentary evidence is heard, the property(s) are ordered divided and awarded proportionally where possible, including cash compensation where proportional division is impractical or impossible (sometimes called a \"second interlocutory judgment\"). The division usually requires the employment of experts such as engineers and surveyors, and the preparation of special reports (which include conveyance deeds and easement deeds). As a final act, the court, in a hearing (not a trial), will accept the special reports and order that these be executed by a title company, which will also effectuate \"recordation\" of the conveyance and easement deeds (any cash compensation due any of the parties will also be effectuated within the escrow).\n\nA party seeking a partition must file a partition lawsuit. State codes generally favor physical division (partition in-kind) of the affected property(s) over sale (partition by sale as a unit), particularly if a tenant would be displaced from his or her primary residence by a sale. If in-kind partition is feasible, the property(s) will be divided proportionally. Where small differences in such division are unavoidable, cash compensation for the difference(s) will be awarded to maintain proportionality. If the property(s) cannot be divided and allocated to give each tenant a portion without spoiling the whole, the court will order a sale. A special master (referee) is commonly appointed by the court to execute the partition process. The referee is responsible only to the court, and the referee is limited only by the court's instructions, and applicable state codes. For an in-kind partition, the referee will cause deeds to the adjusted property(s) to be prepared. Where easements are required for access, the referee will employ professionals (engineers, surveyors and other experts) as required to describe the easement(s). The conveyance deeds for the adjusted property(s) and the easement deed(s) will be recorded simultaneously. Often, \"referee's deeds\" (deeds signed by the referee, in the owner's stead) may be employed.\n\nTenants in common (TIC) deeds may or may not be taken in equal shares, but a joint tenants with rights of survivorship (JTWROS) deed must always be taken in equal shares unless specifically and clearly indicated otherwise in the deed language. Therefore, a partition action for those two types of deeds will vary.\n\nWhen a JTWROS property is partitioned, the proceeds must be divided equally among tenants without regard to contribution to purchase price since a JTWROS deed is always taken in equal shares. So with a JTWROS, contributions to purchase price is not an issue during partition. Otherwise, the premise of a JTWROS deed would be invalid and its purpose would be defeated. On the other hand, when a TIC property is partitioned, courts may be at liberty to consider unequal contributions to purchase price and adjust the tenants' distributions accordingly.\n\nIn either partition situation, tenants may request credits for unequal contributions to expenses incurred \"after\" taking deed to the property. Such credits may cover utility and maintenance expenses, and are allocated according to shares. Credits for improvements to the property may be granted if the improvements actually increased the value of the property.\n"}
{"id": "52977129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52977129", "title": "Polska Ludowa", "text": "Polska Ludowa\n\nPolska Ludowa (, \"People's Poland\") was a semi-official reference to the Polish state under Communism. The term was intended to imply the power of the working people in the state. It was a colloquial reference, including official speeches, but was also sometimes used in official documents.\n\nThe official names of the state were:\n"}
{"id": "26105741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26105741", "title": "Promised Day Brigade", "text": "Promised Day Brigade\n\nThe Promised Day Brigade (abbreviated PDB; Arabic: لواء اليوم الموعود \"Liwā‘ al-Yūm al-Maw‘ūd\"), originally called the Muqawimun (Arabic: المقاومون \"al-Muqāwimūn\"; \"Resisters\") was a Shi'a organization and was an insurgent group operating in Iraq during the war. In 2010, it was one of the largest and most powerful of what the US military call \"Special Groups\" in Iraq. The group was created as successor to Muqtada al-Sadr's Mahdi Army, which was Iraq's largest Shi'a militia until its disbanding in 2008, he also called on other Special Groups to join the brigade. Sadr had earlier already talked about the creation of a smaller guerrilla unit which would continue the Mahdi Army's armed activities but for the first time gave the organisation a name in November 2008 when he declared the creation of the Promised Day Brigade. Its activities have particularly increased since May 2009. The group's name is in reference to an alternate term for the Islamic Day of Judgment. The group is alleged to receive Iranian support. A crackdown against the group, in the end 2009, led to the arrest of 18 of its members including several commanders. On November 29, 2009, the group's Basra leader was arrested in al-Amarah.\n\nIn October 2009, the Promised Day Brigade fought a battle with rival Special Group Asa'ib Ahl al-Haq for influence in Sadr City. The Promised Day Brigade reportedly won the battle and even managed to destroy the house of Abdul Hadi al-Darraji, a senior Asa'ib Ahl al-Haq leader. Since then, the PDB has been the most powerful Special Group in the ex-Mahdi Army stronghold of Sadr City and has increased its activity there.\n\nOn July 21, 2010, General Ray Odierno said Iran supports three Shiite groups in Iraq that had attempted to attack US bases: US officials believe that of these three groups, the Promised Day Brigades poses the greatest threat to Iraq's long-term security.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18316053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18316053", "title": "Roemer's law", "text": "Roemer's law\n\nIn health policy, Roemer's Law may be expressed as follows: \"in an insured population, a hospital bed built is a filled bed\".\n\nThis rule was deduced by the American health services researcher Milton Roemer, working at the UCLA School of Public Health. Roemer and colleagues found a positive correlation between the number of short-term general hospital beds available per 1,000 population and the number of hospital days used per 1,000 population.\n\nWhilst clearly Roemer's Law will not always hold true (not every bed that is ever built will be filled), it does provide the underpinning for certificate of need laws and for health planning.\n\nThe law is thought to be a consequence of induced demand i.e. physicians encouraging patients to consume services that the patients would not have chosen had they been fully informed. Health planning and certificate of need laws aim to prevent the waste that would otherwise occur due to Roemer's Law.\n\n\"One problem in this finding is that it could be the case that hospital stays are shorter in lower hospital bed per capita regions because of a deficit in supply (reverse causation). An increased number of beds may be due to patient preference for in-patient (rather than outpatient) care in a region.\"\n\nEnoch Powell who was Minister of Health in the United Kingdom propounded a similar proposition, which he called Parkinson's Law of hospital beds: \"the number of patients always tends to equality with the number of beds available for them to lie in.\" \n"}
{"id": "35705584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35705584", "title": "Rome Declaration on World Food Security", "text": "Rome Declaration on World Food Security\n\nThe Rome Declaration on World Food Security is a document adopted at the 1996 World Food Summit took place in Rome, Italy between 13 and 17 November 1996. The summit was organised by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO). The Declaration reaffirms the right of everyone to have access to safe and nutritious food consistent with the right to adequate food and the fundamental right of everyone to be free from hunger and pledges political will and common and national commitment to achieving food security for all and to an ongoing effort to eradicate hunger in all countries with an immediate view to reducing the number of undernourished people to half their present level no later than 2015. Therefore, the document has important significance in relation to Food security and the Right to food. Signatories commit to the implementation of the World Food Summit Plan of Action.\n\nIn the Declaration, member states stated the following in relation to the right to food:\n\n\"We pledge our political will and our common and national commitment to achieving food security for all and to an ongoing effort to eradicate hunger in all countries, with an immediate view to reducing the number of undernourished people to half their present level no later than 2015.\"\n"}
{"id": "2415569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2415569", "title": "Sarvodaya Shramadana Movement", "text": "Sarvodaya Shramadana Movement\n\nThe Sarvodaya Shramadana Movement is a self-governance movement in Sri Lanka, which provides comprehensive development and conflict resolution programs to villages. It is also the largest indigenous organization working in reconstruction from the tsunami caused by the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake. Founded in 1958 by A. T. Ariyaratne when he took “forty high school students and twelve teachers from Nalanda College Colombo on “an educational experiment” to an outcaste village, Kathaluwa, and helped the villagers fix it up. It is based on Buddhist and Gandhian principles, including sarvodaya from which it got the name and swaraj (self-governance). The word \"shramadana\" means \"a gift of labor\".\n\nAs of 2006, Sarvodaya staff people and programs are active in some 15,000 (of 38,000) villages in Sri Lanka. The organization estimates that 11 million citizens are individual beneficiaries of one of their programs. The group distributes funds from a financial reserve bank of 1.6 billion rupees.\n\nThe Sarvodaya program begins with an invitation from a village for discussion of what is needed and how it can be done. It proceeds in stages through creating a village council, building a school and clinic, setting up family programs, creating economic opportunity so that the village economy becomes self-sustaining, starting a village bank, and offering help to other villages. In addition, Sarvodaya sponsors public meditations in which tens and sometimes hundreds of thousands of Buddhists, Hindus, Muslims and Christians meditate together on each other's welfare, using the Buddhist Brahmavihara (sublime attitude) meditations, which are acceptable within all faiths.\n\nFusion – Sarvodaya ICT4D Movement is the ICT for development (ICT4D) program. As a response to the emerging digital divide issues of rural Sri Lanka, Sarvodaya started setting up telecentres experimentally in 1997. This has led to the pioneering telecentre program in the country. Village Information Centres (popularly known as VICs) are rural libraries, set up by village youth leaders as 'Zero Cost' village initiatives, which prepare disadvantaged, less educated rural communities for the information age. Out of the 172 VICs initiated since early 2000, there are about 21 VICs graduated to their own forms of telecentres by mid-2008.\n\nAuthor John P. Clark has argued that the Sarvodaya Shramadana Movement are anarchist in their organisation and goals, noting their inspiration from the philosophical anarchist Mahatma Gandhi.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4105232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4105232", "title": "South African general election, 1966", "text": "South African general election, 1966\n\nThe 1966 South African general election, on 30 March 1966, resulted in another comprehensive victory for the National Party under Hendrik Frensch Verwoerd.\n\nThe election marked a major strengthening of power for the ruling NP, which gained a two thirds majority in parliament for the first time. The main opposition United Party slightly increased its share of the popular vote, but nevertheless saw its parliamentary representation considerably reduced.\n\nThe number of House of Assembly seats for White voters in South Africa had been increased from 150 to 160 by the Constitution Amendment Act of 1965. In addition, there were six seats for White voters from South-West Africa (now Namibia). There were also four seats reserved for Coloured representatives, who did not have to stand for re-election during 1966.\n\nThe second election for the four coloured representative members had taken place on 4 October 1961, before the (white voters only) general election on 8 October 1961. Under the Separate Representation of Voters Act 1951, the members had been elected to serve until the dissolution of the 1961–1966 Parliament.\n\nThe Progressive Party (PP) won the two seats representing coloured voters on the Cape Provincial Council, at an election in 1965. The National Party (NP) government became concerned at the prospect of four additional Progressive MPs being elected. The opposition United Party (UP) also feared the loss of support, if the existing four UP supported independent members were defeated.\n\nParliament passed the Separate Representation of Voters Amendment Act 1965. This legislation extended the term of the existing coloured representatives until October 1966. Further Separate Representation of Voters Amendment Acts, in 1966 and 1968, extended the term until the dissolution of what turned out to be the 1966–1970 Parliament. The coloured representation in Parliament would then be abolished.\n\nThe South Africa Act 1909 had provided for a delimitation commission to define the boundaries for each electoral division, for general roll voters in the four provinces. The republican constitution continued the arrangements for a commission. The representation by province, under the twelfth delimitation report of 1965, is set out in the table below. The figures in brackets are the number of electoral divisions in the previous (1958) delimitation. If there is no figure in brackets then the number was unchanged.\n\nSouth-West Africa (with six seats) and the coloured representatives (4 seats), were unaffected by the general delimitation provisions.\n\nThe 13th Parliament since the Union of 1910 and the 1st elected after the republic was proclaimed in 1961, was dissolved in 1966. At the time the House of Assembly consisted of two groups of members. White voters were represented by 156 general roll members and coloured voters in Cape Province by four white MPs known at the time as Coloured Representative Members (CRM).\n\nThe general election only affected the representatives of white voters. The other members were elected on a different date (see above).\n\nSince the previous election, the United Party had absorbed the National Union, with which it had had an electoral alliance in 1961.\n\nThe representation by party and province, at the dissolution was:- \n\nThe vote totals in the table below may not give a complete picture of the balance of political opinion, because of unopposed elections (where no votes were cast) and because contested seats may not have been fought by a candidate from all major parties. In all, eighteen candidates were returned unopposed, seventeen representing the National Party and one the United Party. The Progressive Party barely kept its Houghton seat, held by Helen Suzman since her defection from the UP, with a bare 117 votes. \n\n356 candidates were nominated. These represented the following parties: National 154, United 141, Progressive 26, Republican 22, the Front 10, Independents 2, and Conservative National Party 1. The Republican, Front and Conservative National groups were new right-wing parties, which had not contested previous general elections.\n\nThe total registered electorate was 1,901,479. The votes cast were 1,302,151 (including 7,494 spoilt votes).\n\nThe overall composition of the House, after the general election, by province and party is set out in the table below.\n\n"}
{"id": "428738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428738", "title": "Tamil United Liberation Front", "text": "Tamil United Liberation Front\n\nThe Tamil United Liberation Front (, ) is a political party in Sri Lanka which seeks independence for the Tamil-populated areas of Sri Lanka.\n\nOn May 4, 1972 several Tamil political groups, including the All Ceylon Tamil Congress, formed the Tamil United Front (TUF). The Federal Party joined the TUF in 1976. The TUF changed its name to the Tamil United Liberation Front (TULF) and adopted a demand for an independent state to be known as the \"secular, socialist state of Tamil Eelam\".\n\nIn the first general election contested by the TULF, the 21 July 1977 election in which the UNP won by a landslide, the TULF won 6.40% of the popular vote and 18 out of 168 seats in the Sri Lankan parliament, including all 14 seats in the Northern Province.\n\nVotes and seats won by TULF by electoral district\nThe TULF became the official opposition as result of the rout of the SLFP. The TULF's success would lead to riots in which hundreds of Tamils were murdered by Sinhala mobs.\n\nThroughout the 1970s and early 1980s, the TULF was frequently blamed by nationalist Sinhalese politicians for acts of violence committed by militant groups such as the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE). In fact, the TULF represented an older, more conservative generation of Tamils that felt independence could be achieved without violence, more rival than ally to youth groups like the LTTE who believed in armed conflict.\n\nIn October 1983, all the TULF legislators, numbering sixteen at the time, forfeited their seats in Parliament for refusing to swear an oath unconditionally renouncing support for a separate state in accordance with the Sixth Amendment to the Constitution of Sri Lanka.\n\nDuring the 1980s, the LTTE began to see the TULF as a rival in its desire to be considered the sole representatives of the Tamils of the north and east. Over the next two decades, the LTTE has assassinated several TULF leaders, including A. Amirthalingam and Neelan Thiruchelvam.\n\nThe TULF formed an alliance with the three Indian backed paramilitary groups, Eelam National Democratic Liberation Front (ENDLF), Eelam People's Revolutionary Liberation Front (EPRLF) and Tamil Eelam Liberation Organization (TELO), to contest the 15 February 1989 election. The alliance won 3.40% of the popular vote and 10 out of 225 seats in the Sri Lankan parliament.\n\nVotes and seats won by TULF / ENDLF / EPRLF / TULF alliance by electoral district\nIn the 16 August 1994 election in which the People's Alliance led by Chandrika Kumaratunga came to power after 17 years of UNP rule, the TULF won 1.60% of the popular vote and 5 out of 225 seats in the Sri Lankan parliament.\n\nVotes and seats won by TULF by electoral district\nIn the 10 October 2000 election in which the People's Alliance led by Ratnasiri Wickremanayake retained to power, the TULF won 1.23% of the popular vote and 5 out of 225 seats in the Sri Lankan parliament.\nVotes and seats won by TULF by electoral district\nTULF President V. Anandasangaree, a critic of the Tamil Tigers, left the Tamil National Alliance when it took a pro-Tamil Tigers stance at the 2004 general election. Anandasangaree gained control of the TULF after a legal battle, forcing the TULF members who wanted to remain in the TNA to resurrect the Illankai Tamil Arasu Kachchi, which is now a constituent party of the TNA.\n\nThe legal battle over the control of TULF meant that the TULF led by V. Anandasangaree contested as an independent group and only in one electoral district in the 2 April 2004 parliamentary election, winning 0.06% of the popular vote and no seats in the Sri Lankan parliament.\n\nVotes and seats won by TULF by electoral district\nIn the 8 April 2010 parliamentary election in which the United People's Freedom Alliance led by President Rajapaksa retained power, the TULF led by V. Anandasangaree won 0.11% of the popular vote and no seats in the Sri Lankan parliament.\n\nVotes and seats won by TULF by electoral district\n"}
{"id": "33336961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33336961", "title": "Technological dualism", "text": "Technological dualism\n\nTechnological dualism was proposed by Benjamin Higgins. He was the Ritchie Professor of Economics at the University of Melbourne in the late 1940s. His theory explains the causes of unemployment in the underdeveloped economies. Developing countries of today are often characterized by dualistic economies. One is the modern (or formal) sector while the other is the traditional (informal) sector. Their relation has been explained by Higgins in his theory explained below.\n\nThe theory of technological dualism comes under the subject of development economics. This theory was propounded by Benjamin Higgins in place of Social dualism theory by Professor Boeke. In the words of Prof Higgins \"dualism is the situation in which productive employment opportunities are limited not because of lack of effective demand but because of resource and technological constraints in the two sector\". The two sector here means the traditional rural sector and modern sector.\nThis theory is prevalent in less developed countries. According to Prof Higgins this is the cause of unemployment and underemployment in these less developed countries. The traditional rural sector and the modern sector both use different production function and have different resource endowments and this is the reason for technological dualism in these less developed economies.\n\nThere are two fundamental basis of technological dualism\n\nThere are differences in the production function in the two sectors. There are fixed technical coefficients in the modern sector whereas in case of traditional sector the technical coefficients are variable. This duality is analyzed by Higgins in the context of Factor Proportions. Prof Eckaus offers a detailed explanation of this feature. This will be explained later on in this topic. This concept of Factor Proportion is used by Higgins for the analysis of the unemployment in the underdeveloped countries.\n\nThere is a difference in availability of labour and capital this forms the fundamental basis of technological dualism. In the modern sector more amount of capital than labour is observed so therefor capital intensive techniques would be used. In the traditional sector more of labour is present than capital. So here labour-intensive techniques will be incorporated. Thus two distinct techniques of production can be observed in these two sectors.\n\nAs mentioned above in case of technological dualism the economy is divided into traditional sector and modern sector. Following are some characteristics of these sector.\n\n1) Agriculture, cottage industries and small industries are the main occupations of this sector.\n\n2) Different techniques and combinations are used in this sector. It has variable technical coefficients of production. As technical coefficients are variable the products can be produced with a wide range of techniques and combinations of labour and capital.\n\n3) As it is a traditional sector and factor endowment is such that labour-intensive technique is dominating in this sector as compared to capital intensive technique of production.\n\n1) Large-scale industries, plantation, transport, oil fields are the main occupation in this sector.\n\n2) As it is the modern Sector hence capital intensive production is prevalent.\n\n3) Different techniques and combination are not used. The technical coefficients in this sector is fixed due to this different techniques or combination cannot be used.\n\n4) There is a limited degree of technical substitutability of factors and the production is characterized by fixed technical coefficients.\n\nTwo factors of production (labour and capital) and two goods is the assumption taken to show the technological dualism in the two sectors.\n\nThe production function in the industrial sector is shown. The horizontal axis depicts Labour and the vertical axis is Capital. The curves which are isoquants show the combination of labour and capital at some given level of output. The higher the curve the higher the levels of output i.e. O1 level of output is least and as you go to O2, O3, O4 the output level increases. The dotted line Pi shows the expansion path of the modern sector. From the figure 1 we can see that the production process is capital intensive. For instance, to get an output of O1 then OC1 amount of capital will be used and OL1 units of labour will be employed. If OL2 units are available the excess supply of labour would not have any effect on production techniques and L1L2 (excess labour) will remain unemployed or will try to seek employment in the traditional sector. This proves that only when the capital increases more labour will be taken in and output will be expanded. In this case the labour and capital have to be used in fixed proportion to get any output. As we know the production process is capital intensive. Figure 1 shows that OC1 units of capital is used and OL1 units of labour is employed to get Q1 units of output. if the availability of capital increases the producer would shift to the higher isoquant curve showing higher level of output. Huggins argues that the technical coefficients are not as rigidly fixed and therefore the small slanting dotted lines where two isoquants meet in the figure above show that they are somewhat flexible.f there are very large differences in the factor endowments such as given by CoLn the entrepreneurs would probably think of using more labour-intensive technique. The slope of the expansion path (Pi) shows that despite the increase in capital and output there is no significant improvement in the employment.\n\nThe technical coefficients in the traditional sector is variable. The unemployed labour in the industrial sector will have no option but to look for employment in the traditional sector. As traditional sector is labour-intensive therefore the inflow in labour can be absorbed in this sector as the technical coefficients are variable.\n\nInitially this absorption takes place by getting more land under cultivation so as to keep the ratio of labour to land constant. For sometime the capital and labour combination remain constant as the output rises from O1 to O3 as given in Figure 2. As resources are not unlimited the good land tends to become scarce and due to inflow of labour the ratio of labour to capital in the sector rises and hence the techniques tend to become increasingly labour-intensive. When the point On is reached all the available land has already been cultivated due to the high intensive labour techniques used and the marginal productivity of labour falls below zero. Disguised unemployment starts making an appearance at this point. Under these condition there is no incentive for farmers to or small industries to make an investment in this sector even if they have the money to invest. Nor will they be interested in introducing labour saving innovations even if they knew about them. Since labour supply is in excess therefore labour as a group is not interested in increasing their efforts. Thus methods of production remain labour-intensive and economic and social welfare remain low.\n\nHiggins notes that the problem of disguised unemployment has become more and more serious in the rural sector during the last two centuries. This happened as technological progress took a form of capital intensive sector and not technological progress took place in agriculture, handicrafts. The technological progress has been rapid in modern sector. Particularly after the second world war both he trade union activity and direct government intervention has led to increase in the industrial wage rates in certain countries but these policies have had no effect on the rural wage rate. As a result, the tendency towards technological dualism has increased.\n\nAs mentioned earlier in this topic we will discuss the factor proportion problem as incorporated by Prof Higgins in his theory. This problem was discussed by Prof Eckaus in detail in his study.\nProf Eckaus begins with a simple case where one good is produced in the economy, national product, with two factors of production labour and capital. It is assumed by him that the factors given are used in fixed proportions. Eckaus finds out that the relatively abundant factor i.e. labour faces structural unemployment. This happens even if the technique used is labour-intensive. So from his study it showed that structural unemployment of labour exists even when labour-intensive technique is used.\nIn the next step the national product is divided into two goods-one is output of local enterprises which are relatively more labour-intensive and output of western enterprises which are relatively more capital intensive. Again the result is the same very high capital-labour ratio results in structural unemployment of labour. This cannot be removed even if prce is adjusted, or by creation of increased effective demand.\nThis conclusion remains unchanged even if variable coefficients replace the fixed coefficients in the more labour-intensive field of employment.\nSome of the reasons for aggravation of these structural employment is\n1) If the technological progress takes a form of capital intensive sector.\n2) If the rate of population growth is higher than the rate of capital accumulation in the labour sector.\n3) If government policies or the trade union are able to increase the wages to a higher level.\n\nHiggins in his theory of technological dualism shows us that technological dualism in underdeveloped countries is the cause of unemployment and disguised unemployment. He thinks that the development in the modern sector can take place if foreign capital is present in the economy. As a result of this industrialization in these economies do not cause capital formation instead they are associated with ever increase in population. This is the reason for unemployment in these under developed economies.\n\nProf Higgins' theory is more realistic as compared to the Boeke theory of social dualism. His theory clearly explains the reasons for unemployment in the underdeveloped countries. Higgins' theory is not free of criticism; some of the criticisms are given below:\n\n1) Higgins fails to offer an explanation of nature and growth of unemployment in the traditional sector in the dual society\n\n2) It is questionable to assume that development of the industrial sector is dependent entirely on imported technology.\n\n3) He gives importance to only technical factors affecting labour and capital whereas social and psychological factors are completely ignored.\n\n4) His theory is based on the assumption that technical coefficients are fixed in the modern sector. However a little degree of elasticity cannot be ruled out completely. This makes his assumption questionable.\n\n5) The theory explains the underemployment in the traditional sector but it does not provide a solution.\n\n"}
{"id": "1440697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1440697", "title": "The Culture of Critique series", "text": "The Culture of Critique series\n\nThe Culture of Critique series is a trilogy of books by psychology professor Kevin B. MacDonald claiming that evolutionary psychology provides the motivations behind Jewish group behavior and culture, asserting Jewish behavior and culture are central causes of antisemitism and of alleged Jewish control and influence in government policy and political movements. While the first and second book received some positive reviews, later works have been mostly rejected and condemned by academics and journalists as being scientifically unsupportable, academically sloppy, and antisemitic. \n\nThe trilogy includes:\n\nThe first books constitute what is known as MacDonald's \"trilogy.\" In this trilogy he describes Judaism as a \"group evolutionary strategy\" to enhance the ability of Jews to out-compete non-Jews for resources. He argues that Judaism fosters in Jews a series of marked genetic traits, including above-average verbal intelligence and a strong tendency toward collectivist behavior. MacDonald also notes a negative shift in tone from the first book to the third, and attributes it to having learned more, read more, and \"changed greatly\" in that time. MacDonald's trilogy has been described as significant for \"its potential to forge a standardized anti-Semitic critique in the far right.\"\n\nThe trilogy was followed by additional writings on the topic published by the \"Occidental Quarterly\", a periodical MacDonald currently edits:\n\nMacDonald describes Judaism as having or being a \"group evolutionary strategy\" aimed at limiting exogamy, enforcing cultural segregation, promoting in-group charity and economic cooperation, and regulating in-group marriage and births to achieve high levels of intelligence, ability to acquire resources, parenting care, and group allegiance. He examines evidence from Jewish history, culture, and genetics supporting his thesis, arguing that Judaism is based on a strong -- and possibly genetically based -- predisposition to ethnocentrism characteristic of Middle Eastern cultures generally but exacerbated as a result of selective effects resulting from Jewish cultural practices. He considers the use of the complex and extensive Jewish scriptures and the high prestige of Rabbinic learning as eugenic mechanisms for promoting Jewish verbal intelligence and dexterity.\n\nDeveloping his work in \"A People that Shall Dwell Alone\", MacDonald examines antisemitism as a test case for an evolutionary analysis of ethnic conflict in general, applying social identity theory to three critical periods of institutionalized antisemitism: the Roman Empire in the fourth century; the Iberian inquisitions from the fourteenth century; and German Nazism in the period 1933-45. He argues that antisemitism can be analysed as a consequence of resource competition between groups in which each group is rationally pursuing its own interests, rather than as a manifestation of irrational malice by non-Jewish out-groups, and asserts that Jews, particularly strongly identified Jews, will be relatively prone to self-deception by ignoring or rationalizing negative information about themselves and their in-group. Finally, he discusses whether Judaism has ceased to be an evolutionary strategy because of the current levels of intermarriage among some groups of diaspora Jews, arguing that it has not ceased to be so and that it continues to flourish.\n\nMacDonald examines , political radicalism, psychoanalysis, the Frankfurt School, and The New York Intellectuals, arguing that Jews dominated these intellectual movements and that a strong sense of Jewish identity was characteristic of the great majority of the individuals in these movements. He argues that these individuals were pursuing a Jewish ethnic agenda in establishing and participating in these movements, while writing that the Jewish community does not constitute a unified movement and that only a small and elite minority of that community participated in these movements.\n\nHe claims Jewish efforts to shape United States immigration policy were in opposition to what he sees as the interests of the peoples of non-Jewish European descent, particularly the peoples of Northern and Western Europe. He concludes the book by claiming that intellectual movements he examines are movements that are either \"Jewish\" by nature or Jewish-controlled, with baleful results: \"the result has been a widening gulf between the cultural successes of Jews and Gentiles and a disaster for society as a whole.\"\n\nDescribing the evolution of his thinking over the course of his writing the trilogy, MacDonald says in his preface to the 2002 paperback edition of \"The Culture of Critique\":\nI think there is a noticeable shift in my tone from the first book to the third simply because (I'd like to think) I knew a lot more and had read a lot more. People often say after reading the first book that they think I really admire Jews, but they are unlikely to say that about the last two and especially about \"CofC\". That is because by the time I wrote \"CofC\" I had changed greatly from the person who wrote the first book.\n\nWith introduction by white nationalist political writer Samuel T. Francis, \"Understanding Jewish Influence\" outlines what MacDonald claims are the \"background traits\" of Jewish influence. To MacDonald these traits consist of:\n\n\nHe goes on to assert the influence of these traits upon current events concerning Zionism, neoconservatism, immigration, and Middle Eastern warfare waged by Western powers.\n\n\"Slate\" magazine carried an article by Judith Shulevitz, then Art and Entertainment editor of the Culturebox, entitled \"Evolutionary Psychology's Anti-Semite,\" continuing the discussion followed by an extended rebuttal by MacDonald. According to Shulevitz, MacDonald's arguments are prescriptive: \"Toward the end of the third book, MacDonald lays out his solution for restoring what he calls 'parity' between the Jews and other ethnic groups: systematic discrimination against Jews in college admission and employment and heavy taxation of Jews 'to counter the Jewish advantage in the possession of wealth'\". MacDonald replied that in the actual passage from \"The Culture of Critique\" quoted by Shulevitz, he was speaking hypothetically of the consequences of competition between ethnic groups of differing abilities.\n\nMark Potok of the Southern Poverty Law Center has said of MacDonald that \"he put the anti-Semitism under the guise of scholarly work... Kevin MacDonald’s work is nothing but gussied-up anti-Semitism. At base it says that Jews are out to get us through their agenda... His work is bandied about by just about every neo-Nazi group in America.\"\n\nThe Anti-Defamation League has included MacDonald in its list of American extremists, \"Extremism in America\", and has written a report on his views and ties. According to the ADL, MacDonald's views on Jews mimic those of antisemites from the late 19th and early 20th centuries.\n\nIn a letter to \"Slate\" magazine, Harvard University psychology professor Steven Pinker wrote:\n\nMacDonald's ideas, as presented in summaries that would serve as a basis for further examination, do not pass that threshold, for many reasons: <br>\n\n1. By stating that Jews promulgate scientific hypotheses because they are Jewish, he is engaging in \"ad hominem\" argumentation that is outside the bounds of normal scientific discourse and an obvious waste of time to engage. MacDonald has already announced that I will reject his ideas because I am Jewish, so what's the point of replying to them? <br>\n\n2. MacDonald's main axioms – group selection of behavioral adaptations, and behaviorally relevant genetic cohesiveness of ethnic groups – are opposed by powerful bodies of data and theory, which Tooby, Cosmides, and many other evolutionary psychologists have written about in detail. Of course any assumption can be questioned, but there are no signs that MacDonald has taken on the burden of proof of showing that the majority view is wrong. <br>\n\n3. MacDonald's various theses, even if worthy of scientific debate individually, collectively add up to a consistently invidious portrayal of Jews, couched in value-laden, disparaging language. It is impossible to avoid the impression that this is not an ordinary scientific hypothesis. <br>\n\n4. The argument, as presented in the summaries, fails two basic tests of scientific credibility: a control group (in this case, other minority ethnic groups), and a comparison with alternative hypotheses (such as Thomas Sowell's convincing analysis of \"middlemen minorities\" such as the Jews, presented in his magisterial study of migration, race, conquest, and culture).\n\nA paper by David Lieberman, a Holocaust researcher at Brandeis University, alleges that MacDonald has distorted evidence and chosen evidence selectively for rhetorical purposes.\n\nJohn Tooby, past president of the Human Behavior and Evolution Society and a professor of anthropology at the University of California, Santa Barbara, insists that MacDonald is not an evolutionary psychologist, and that he advocates a generally discredited view of natural selection. Tooby, the founder of MacDonald's field of evolutionary psychology, criticized MacDonald in an article for the \"Salon\" website in 2000: \"MacDonald's ideas—not just on Jews—violate fundamental principles of the field\".\n\nReviewing MacDonald's \"A People That Shall Dwell Alone: Judaism as a Group Evolutionary Strategy\" in \"The Jewish Quarterly Review\", Sander Gilman, professor of the Liberal Arts and Medicine at the University of Illinois at Chicago describes MacDonald's arguments about a Jewish group evolutionary strategy as \"bizarre\". According to Gilman, \"MacDonald recasts all of the hoary old myths about Jewish psychological difference and its presumed link to Jewish superior intelligence in contemporary sociobiological garb\". Gilman also charges that \"MacDonald manipulates his sources rather shamelessly\", including Gilman's own work. Gilman concludes that MacDonald's book \"is the most recent chapter in the continued myth-building concerning Jewish superior intelligence and achievement. It is, like the numerous earlier works, of interest in how positive images turn into the means by which Jewish difference is stressed and Jewish acculturation is shown to be pathological\".\n\nReviewing Macdonald's \"A People That Shall Dwell Alone\" in the \"Journal for the Scientific Study of Religion\", Eugen Schoenfeld, Professor Emeritus of Sociology at Georgia State University, commented that \"the book is controversial, not only because of its theoretical approach, but also, and perhaps primarily, because of sloppy scholarship\". Schoenfeld writes that Macdonald \"selects historical incidents that can be used to support his thesis and conveniently omits others that challenge his thesis\". Schoenfeld points to what he sees as Macdonald's \"unfamiliarity with both the sociological frame of reference and historical knowledge\", and as an example, notes that Macdonald's comparison of Jewish collectivism during the biblical period with eighteenth- and nineteenth-century English individualism \"indicates a total ignorance of the impact of industrialization on Western societies\".\n\nReviewing Macdonald's \"Separation and Its Discontents\" in the \"American Jewish Society Review\" in 2000, Zev Garber, Professor of Jewish Studies at Los Angeles Valley College, wrote that MacDonald works from the assumption that the dual Torah is the blueprint of the eventual Jewish dominion over the world and that he sees contemporary antisemitism, the Holocaust, and attacks against Israel as \"provoked by Jews themselves. In this scenario, Jews imagine themselves as innocent victims of hatred and violence.\" Garber concludes that Macdonald's \"rambling who-is-who-isn't roundup of Jews responsible for the 'Jewish Problem' borders on the irrational and is conducive to misrepresentation\".\n\nDaniel Kriegman, an evolutionary psychologist, produced a 50-page analysis criticizing MacDonald's work as \"pseudo-scientific theorizing\", although it does not appear that he ever published it: he did send it to MacDonald, who has since responded. He wrote that MacDonald \"believes his own nonsense\". Kriegman remarked in an email, \"MacDonald is not the first person to avoid the narcissistic injury of having his ideas rejected by concluding that there was a conspiracy against him rather than becoming aware of the substandard nature [as evidenced in his trilogy] of his thinking.\"\n\nA history professor at MacDonald's university, Don Schwarz, called MacDonald's claims about Jewish history \"unsupportable\". Philosophy Professor Warren Weinstein said that MacDonald's work was not science at all, but \"something else, masquerading as science\": and that \"It is in the great tradition of Nazi and Stalinist science which clearly and scientifically proved that their respective insanities were objectively true and defensible.\"\n\nAcademic Jaff Schatz has accused MacDonald of misrepresenting and misusing his work.\n\nJohn Hartung, the former associate editor of the \"Journal of Neurosurgical Anesthesiology\" and an associate professor of anesthesiology at the State University of New York, said that MacDonald's \"The Culture of Critique\" was \"quite disturbing, seriously misinformed about evolutionary genetics, and suffering from a huge blind spot about the nature of Christianity\".\n\nIn a 2000 review in the journal \"Shofar\", reviewer Jefferson A. Singer wrote that he considered the book to be \"written out of a deep and destructive hatred for Jews\", and questioned the editorial policy of the books' publisher, Praeger, in \"bringing a book of such dubious scientific merit to a larger audience and in giving it an air of legitimacy it does not deserve\".\n\nIn March 2018, Nathan Cofnas of the University of Oxford published a critique of MacDonald's theory in the journal \"Human Nature\" where he concluded that MacDonald relied \"on systematically misrepresented sources and cherry-picked facts\". Cofnas and Jonathan Anomaly wrote a follow-up article in \"Quillette\" where they argued that the recent history of persecution was also a factor that influenced Jews to support liberal movements.\n\nOther responses have been favorable. Laurence Loeb of the University of Utah (writing for the \"Jewish Folklore and Ethnology Review\") called \"A People That Shall Dwell Alone\" a \"tour-de-force\" and a \"watershed contribution to the understanding of Judaism and Jewish life\" based on a \"cautious, careful assembling of evidence\". MacDonald's first books received positive reviews from others including Hans Eysenck, John Hartung, Richard Lynn, and Roger D. Masters; while positive reviews of \"The Culture of Critique\" include those by Kevin Hannan in \"Nationalities Papers\", and by Frank Salter in \"Human Ethology Bulletin\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48687473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48687473", "title": "The Standing March", "text": "The Standing March\n\nThe Standing March is a collaborative art installation by the French artist JR and the American filmmaker Darren Aronofsky. The artwork, which depicts more than 500 people, was projected onto the facade of the National Assembly building during the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris.\n\n"}
{"id": "29683181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29683181", "title": "United States Ambassador to the United Nations Human Rights Council", "text": "United States Ambassador to the United Nations Human Rights Council\n\nThe United States Ambassador to the United Nations Human Rights Council is the diplomatic representative of the United States to the United Nations Human Rights Council. The position is located within the United States Mission to the United Nations and Other International Organizations located at Geneva, Switzerland. A formal title for the position is United States Representative to the United Nations Human Rights Council, with rank of Ambassador.\n\nUp until 2006, the position was commonly known as the United States Ambassador to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, as it was associated to a predecessor organization, the United Nations Commission on Human Rights. It was more formally called United States Representative to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, and did not at first have ambassadorial rank but subsequently attained it.\n\nThe U.S. Delegation to the Human Rights Council is a part of the U.S. Mission Geneva, and other U.S. ambassadors stationed in Geneva are the United States Ambassador to United Nations and Other International Organizations in Geneva (head of the overall mission, and not to be confused with the more well-known United States Ambassador to the United Nations stationed in New York), the United States Ambassador to the World Trade Organization, and the United States Ambassador to the Conference on Disarmament.\n\nThe United Nations Commission on Human Rights was formed in April 1946 on a preliminary basis and then in January 1947 on a permanent basis. Former First Lady of the United States Eleanor Roosevelt was chosen as its first chair on both occasions. She played a major role in the formation and 1948 adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. She also served as the U.S. representative to the commission. In 1951 she relinquished the chair but stayed on as the U.S. representative to it.\n\nAs with regular ambassadorial posts, nominations are made by the President of the United States and confirmation by the United States Senate is required. Commentary on people holding the post has often been linked with perceptions that the Commission on Human Rights was anti-U.S. and especially anti-Israel. The United States was voted off the commission for a period beginning in 2001. Later, the United States withdrew from the council in 2018.\n\nBesides Eleanor Roosevelt, the position has attracted some well-known Americans, including four past members of the United States Congress, one of whom, Geraldine Ferraro, had been her party's nominee for vice president. The most recent person holding the position was Keith Harper, from June 2014 to January 2017.\n\nThe following is a chronological list of those who have held the position, under its various names. \n(It is unclear exactly when ambassadorial rank happened, but scattered references to the representatives as ambassadors can be found throughout the 1970s.) The position has gone vacant at times when the Commission was not in session, or when no presidential appointment had been made or confirmed, or when the United States was not a member of the body. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12742430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12742430", "title": "Vali (governor)", "text": "Vali (governor)\n\nWāli or vali (from Arabic والي \"Wāli\") is an administrative title that was used during the Caliphate and Ottoman Empire to designate governors of administrative divisions. It is still in use in some countries influenced by Arab or Muslim culture. The division that a Wāli governs is called Wilayah, or, in the case of Ottoman Turkey, \"Vilayet\".\n\nIn Algeria, a \"wāli\" is the \"governor\" and administrative head of each of the 48 provinces of the country, and is chosen by the president.\n\nIn Iran the term is known as Vāli and refers to the governor-general or local lord of an important province. During the Safavid reign 1501-1722 the former rulers of the then subordinated provinces of the Georgian Kartli and Kakheti kingdom, the Kurdish emirate of Ardalan, the chiefs of Lorestān Province and of Khuzestan Province in western Iran were regarded as hereditary governor-generals titled \"Vāli\" equal to the Beylerbeylik (Safavid Persia). These \"lords of the marches\" should protect Iran's western borders against foreign powers. During the Qajar rule 1785-1925 the kingdom of Georgia was lost to Russia and the hereditary lords were replaced by officials of the central power. Mainly these officials came from the group of imperial princes and royal notables and were made Vāli of important provinces. For example, the crown prince bore traditionally the title of Vāli of Azerbaijan (Iran).\n\n\"Vali\" was the title in the Ottoman Empire of the most common type of Ottoman governor, in charge of a vilayet (in Ottoman Turkish), often a military officer such as a pasha; see Subdivisions of the Ottoman Empire.\n\nIn Turkey (the main successor state to the Ottoman Empire), a \"wāli\" (spelled as \"vali\") is the \"governor\" and administrative head of each of the 81 provinces of the country, and is appointed by the government.\n\nThe Sultanate of Oman, when it ruled Mombasa, Kenya, appointed a \"wali\" for the city known locally as \"LiWali\". The term is still used today to denote settlements of Oman, such as the \"Wilayat Madha,\" a settlement which intersects the road between Madam in Sharjah and Hatta in Dubai in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Many Rulers of the Trucial States (also called Trucial Oman in the past) appointed \"walis\" to look after towns on their behalf, including employing slaves for that purpose.\n\nSince 1997 regionalisation reform, a \"Wāli\" is the governor of one of the sixteen regions of Morocco.\n\nIn Pakistan, the rulers of the former princely state of Swat were given the title of \"Wali\".\n\nIn the Philippines, the term \"Wali\" is the proposed name for the titular head of Bangsamoro, a proposed, autonomous political entity in the large southern island of Mindanao. The Bangsamoro, which is intended to give devolved powers to Filipino Muslims, is intended to supersede Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao. The \"Wali\" (analogous to the present Governor of the ARMM) will have ceremonial functions and powers such as moral guardianship of the territory and convocation and dissolution of its proposed legislature.\n\n"}
{"id": "40666078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40666078", "title": "Wartime Measure Act of 1918", "text": "Wartime Measure Act of 1918\n\nWartime Measure Act of 1918 was United States federal legislation deeming wartime travel as an unlawful act when touring without an United States passport.\n\nThe passport has long been used as an instrument of international travel, not only in the United States, but also all throughout the world. On August 18, 1856, Congress resolved that passports were reserved for citizens of the United States alone. Congress also gave the Secretary of State \"sole authority to issue passports and made it illegal for any other authority to issue a passport or a document in the nature of a passport.\" The first instance of strict regulations on passport travel in the United States was during the Civil War, attributable to Secretary of State William Seward. These regulations required that anyone entering or exiting the United States have a passport, including immigrants, who had to have their documentation signed by a U.S. minister or consul. There was contention centered upon the 1856 Act that drew from three main components: passports were only issued to citizens of the United States, the authority to issue passports was vested in the Secretary of State, and that very authority came with incredible discretion. Further, problems arose in the verification of one's citizenship, as \"government officials and applicants often sought to turn the vagaries of citizenship to their advantage.\"\n\nOn July 26, 1917, the State and Labor Departments issued a joint order that attempted to \"legally control the entry of aliens to the United States,\" by requiring them to have visas issued by a United States consul. However, the Attorney General later determined that the executive branch, namely the President, did not have the authority to implement such regulations. This led to the second instance in which strict regulations were placed on passport travel for citizens of the United States. On May 22, 1918 the Wartime Measure Act, also known as the Travel Control Act, was signed by Woodrow Wilson just one year following the United States' entrance into World War I. Following the Act, the continued discretion of passport officials made it nearly \"impossible to travel in the 1920s and 1930s without securing the necessary documents.\" The necessity of this Act stemmed primarily from the \"unregulated flow of people across borders\" during the war, which was seen as a potential national security threat for countries around the world, including the United States.\n\nWhat is most commonly referenced from the Act is Section II containing the passport restriction condition. However, the Act itself has many other provisions as well.\n\nThe 65th United States Congress approved the Act on May 22, 1918 in Session 2, as Chapter 81. The primary objective was to \"prevent in time of war departure from or entry into the United States contrary to the public safety.\" It vested power in the President to impose restrictions on the entry and departure of persons within the jurisdiction of the United States when at war. Essentially, the Act was open-ended: \"If the President shall find that the public safety requires that restrictions and prohibitions in addition to those provided otherwise than by this Act…it shall, until otherwise ordered by the President or Congress, be unlawful\":\n\n\nMost commonly known and referenced, this section required that any citizen of the United States obtain a passport for travel to and from the United States.\n\nThis section outlined the punishments faced should anyone violate any of the components of the Act. If convicted, one could face a fine not exceeding $10,000, or if a natural citizen, they could face no more than 20 years imprisonment, or both. Additionally, any \"officer, director or agent of any corporation\" convicted of a violation could be punished by such fine or imprisonment, or both. Any \"vehicle or vessel, together with its or her appurtenances, equipment, tackle, apparel, and furniture, concerned in any such violation, shall be forfeited to the United States.\"\n\nThe United States is defined as including the Canal Zone, and all territories and their respective waters, \"continental or insular.\" A person is defined as any \"individual, partnership, association, company, or other unincorporated body of individuals, or corporation, or body politic.\"\n\nAn article from the New York Times, published August 26, 1919, quoted President Woodrow Wilson's request to Congress to extend the passport provision for one more year. His rationale was that a lift on travel restrictions to and from the United States would welcome an increase in immigrants, including those \"undesirable, from the point of view of becoming future citizens,\" and those whose \"origin and affiliations make it inadvisable that they should be permitted to enter\" the country. The extension, necessitating a $750,000 appropriation, would, according to President Wilson, maintain a necessary system of passport control.\n\nAnother New York Times article headlined \"Enemy Aliens Need No Permit Now to Quit the United States,\" also discussed the issue of travel control during this time. The President amended a previous Executive Order, so that \"hostile or enemy aliens\" that wished to leave the United States no longer needed permission for departure, unless stated by the Secretary of State. A passport from their country of origin was sufficient, so long as it was dated within one year prior to the desired date of departure.\n\n"}
{"id": "42222777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42222777", "title": "White Cross Army", "text": "White Cross Army\n\nThe White Cross Army was an organisation set up in 1883 by philanthropist Ellice Hopkins with help from the Bishop of Durham, to promote \"social purity\". The recruits – all of them men – pledged to show a \"chivalrous respect for womanhood\", to apply ideas of purity equally to men and women, and not to indulge in foul language or indecent behaviour. It was renamed the White Cross League in 1891, and merged with the Church of England Purity Society, which had been formed by Edward White Benson.\n\nThe organisation was Christian in ethos but, at the insistence of Hopkins and somewhat unusually for a purity association, it was non-denominational in practice. Its name was symbolic: \"White\" denoted purity, \"Cross\" referred to the campaign being for Christ, and \"Army\" reflected its disciplined nature. It adopted as its motto the words of Sir Galahad:\nThe army based its structure on that of the temperance movement. Its target audience was mostly working-class men, who were exhorted to pledge their support for its aims by speakers at mass meetings. In lectures delivered by the organisation, the pledge of \"purity\" was defined for married men as the practice of sexual restraint, while young and unmarried men were expected to practice chastity and renounce masturbation. As with the Church of England Purity Society, whose goals were similar but aimed at upper-class men, the Army believed that it was men who should be responsible for sexual virtue.\n\nThere were 102 affiliated branches in Britain within a year of formation, and branches in Australia, Canada, Germany, India and the United States. The British branches had attracted 2000 pledge-takers in that time and were mostly in the industrialised regions of The Midlands and North England.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "675283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=675283", "title": "Works council", "text": "Works council\n\nA works council (very rarely called \"work council\") is a \"shop-floor\" organization representing workers that functions as a local/firm-level complement to trade unions but is independent of these at least in some countries. Works councils exist with different names in a variety of related forms in a number of European countries, including Britain (\"joint consultative committee or employees’ council\"); Germany and Austria (\"Betriebsrat\"); Luxembourg (\"comité mixte\", \"délégation du personnel\"); the Netherlands and Flanders in Belgium (\"ondernemingsraad\"); Italy (\"comitato aziendale\"); France (\"comité d'entreprise\"); Wallonia in Belgium (\"conseil d'entreprise\") and Spain (\"comité de empresa\").\n\nOne of the most commonly examined (and arguably most successful) implementations of this institution is found in Germany. The model is basically as follows: general labour agreements are made at the national level by national unions (e.g. IG Metall) and national employer associations (e.g. Gesamtmetall), and local plants and firms then meet with works councils to adjust these national agreements to local circumstances. Works council members are elected by the company workforce for a four-year term. They don't have to be union members; works councils can also be formed in companies where neither the employer nor the employees are organized.\n\nWorks council representatives may also be appointed to the board of directors.\n\nAs with co-determination, there are three main views about why works councils primarily exist: to reduce workplace conflict by improving and systematising communication channels; to increase bargaining power of workers at the expense of owners by means of legislation; and to correct market failures by means of public policy.\n\nOn 22 September 1994, the Council of the European Union passed a Directive (94/45/EC) on the establishment of a European Works Council (EWC) or similar procedure for the purposes of informing and consulting employees in companies which operate at European Union level.\n\nThe EWC Directive applies to companies with at least 1,000 employees within the EU and at least 150 employees in each of at least two Member States.\n\nEuropean Works Councils were created partly as a response to increased transnational restructuring brought about by the Single European Act. They give representatives of workers from all European countries in big multinational companies a direct line of communication to top management. They also make sure that workers in different countries are all told the same thing at the same time about transnational policies and plans. Lastly, they give workers’ representatives in unions and national works councils the opportunity to consult with each other and to develop a common European response to employers’ transnational plans, which management must then consider before those plans are implemented.\n\nThe EWC Directive was revised by the Council and the European Parliament in May 2009. The changes contained in the new (\"Recast\") Directive must be transposed into national law by 5 June 2011, and have important implications for all companies in scope of the legislation, both those with an existing European Works Council and those yet to have set one up.\n\nA comité d’entreprise (works council) is mandatory in any company with 50 employees or more. Members of the C.E. are elected by all the employees, and have 20 hours of delegation. The main role of the C.E. is being the interface between the employees and the members of the board which is constituted of the Chairman and the HR. The number of members depends of the number of people in the company. All members of the C.E. have a monthly meeting with the board, in which very specific points are dealt with.\n\nWorks councils in Germany have a long history, with their origins in the early 1920s in the post World War I Weimar Republic, established by the Betriebsverfassungsgesetz or Works Council Act. Initially, unions were very skeptical of works councils, seeing them as a way for management to negotiate with employees without employing collective bargaining, but eventually they developed clearly defined responsibilities with works councils not allowed to organize strikes or enforce a wage increase. In recent years with a decline in union membership, works councils have come to be seen as a way for unions to recruit members, specifically by having works councils campaign for people to join them.\n\nIn Germany, they serve two functions. The first is called co-determination, through which works councils elect members of the board of directors of German companies. The second is called participation, and means that works councils must be consulted about specific issues and have the right to make proposals to management. One of the most impressive achievements of the councils is producing incredibly harmonious relations between management and workers, leading to a situation with strong unions and an incredibly low strike rate. This also allows for a lot of coordination between the firm and the workers, resulting in, for example, the ability of many German firms to dramatically scale back the hours of each worker without large scale layoffs during the 2008 financial crisis, and then slowly scaling back up as the recovery took effect. This was all assisted by the Kurzarbeit, a fund that helps workers who have had their hours reduced.\n\nWorks councils in Germany have been correlated with a number of positive effects. They promote higher wages, even more than collective bargaining (although situations with both will promote wages the highest), they make firms more productive (although the degree to which they increase productivity can be hard to measure). and they don’t inhibit investment or innovation. Works councils have also been shown to help women, East German, and foreign workers at a higher rate compared to West German men. However, they are correlated lower profitability, likely since they tend to bring higher wages, and there may not be as much benefit in smaller companies as there is in larger ones.\n\nIn the United States, the National Labor Relations Board has held that works councils must be elected, and without interference by the employer, in order to be lawful. The simplest method is that the recognized labor union organizes the elections for works councils. A company union, organized, funded or influenced by the employer, is prohibited under section 8(a)(2) of the National Labor Relations Act This theory has been upheld in the courts; the controlling case is \"Electromation, Inc. v. NLRB\" (1994).\n\n\n\n"}
