{"id": "20761754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20761754", "title": "6th parallel south", "text": "6th parallel south\n\nThe 6th parallel south is a circle of latitude that is 6 degrees south of the Earth's equatorial plane. It crosses the Atlantic Ocean, Africa, the Indian Ocean, Southeast Asia, Australasia, the Pacific Ocean and South America.\n\nStarting at the Prime Meridian and heading eastwards, the parallel 6° south passes through:\n\n"}
{"id": "29174339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29174339", "title": "Ada Estate", "text": "Ada Estate\n\nAda Estate is a primarily residential suburb of Dar es Salaam (Tanzania). In this suburb there are several embassies, including the French embassy; the American embassy was also in Ada Estate before being transferred after the 1998 United States embassy bombings. The suburb also includes some of the most advanced hospitals in Dar es Salaam, including the Tanzania Heart Institute (the only Tanzanian hospital specialized in cardiology).\n\n"}
{"id": "28298424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28298424", "title": "Aethiopian Sea", "text": "Aethiopian Sea\n\nAethiopian Sea, Æthiopian Ocean or Æthiopic Ocean ( or \"Oceanus Æthiopicus\"; ) was the name given to the southern part of the Atlantic Ocean in classical geographical works. The name appeared in maps from ancient times to the turn of the 19th century.\n\nThe Ethiopian Sea, Ethiopic Ocean or Ethiopian Ocean (Okeanos Aithiopos), is an old name for what is now called the South Atlantic Ocean. It is separated from the North Atlantic Ocean by a narrow region between Natal, Brazil and Monrovia, Liberia. The term Ethiopian Ocean appeared until the mid-19th century, for example on the map \"Accuratissima Totius Africae in Lucem Producta\", engraved by Johann Baptist Homann and Frederick de Wit and published by Jacob von Sandrart in Nürnberg in 1702.\n\nThe name Aethiopian Sea to refer to the ocean was related to referring to large swathes of the continent of Africa as Aethiopia. Nowadays the classical use of the term has become obsolete, as the modern nation of Ethiopia is located in the northeastern area of Africa and not near the actual Ethiopic Ocean. \n\nAncient Greek historians Diodorus and Palaephatus mentioned that the Gorgons lived in the Gorgades, islands in the Aethiopian Sea. The main island was called Cerna and, according to Henry T. Riley, these islands may correspond to Cape Verde.\n\nOn 16th century maps, the name of the Northern Atlantic Ocean was \"Sinus Occidentalis\", while the central Atlantic, southwest of present-day Liberia, appeared as \"Sinus Atlanticus\" and the Southern Atlantic as \"Mare Aethiopicum\". \n\nBy the 17th century John Seller divided the Atlantic Ocean in two parts by means of the equator. He named the northern portion of the Atlantic \"Mar del Nort\" and the southern part \"Oceanus Æthiopicus\" in his \"Atlas Maritimus\" published in 1672. Edward Wright did not label the North Atlantic at all but called the portion south of the equator the \"Aethiopian Sea\" in a map that was published posthumously in 1683. John Thornton used the term in \"A New Map of the World\" from 1703.\n\nDecades after the terms Ethiopian Ocean or Ethiopian Sea had fallen into disuse to refer to the Southern Atlantic Ocean, botanist William Albert Setchell (1864–1943) used the term for the sea around certain islands close to Antarctica.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38985636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38985636", "title": "Benoît Antheaume", "text": "Benoît Antheaume\n\nBenoît Antheaume (born 1946) is a French geographer, specialising in the South Pacific region. He holds a doctorate in geography and is research director at the scientific institute ORSTOM. He has undertaken numerous research missions in Oceania, including in New Caledonia and New Zealand, and has written numerous scientific articles, as well as an \"Atlas of New Caledonia\" and an \"Atlas of the Islands and States of the Pacific\" with Joel Bonnemaison.\n\n"}
{"id": "38191842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38191842", "title": "Bibliography and Index of Geology", "text": "Bibliography and Index of Geology\n\nThe Bibliography and Index of Geology is divided into \"Bibliography and index of North American geology\" and \"Bibliography and index of geology exclusive of North America\". These, and other print publications, are now available electronically in the GeoRef database.\n\nIn 1896, the United States Geological Survey released N.H. Darton's 1045-page \"Catalogue and index of contributions to North American geology, 1732-1891\" and also commenced an incremental publication of Fred Boughton Weeks' serial work \"Bibliography and index of North American geology, paleontology, petrology, and mineralogy for 1892 and 1893\". This was followed the same year by individual volumes for 1894 (141 pages) and 1895 (130 pages), then the volume for 1896 was released in 1897 with 152 pages. This continued until in 1909, it became the \"Bibliography of North American geology for 1906 and 1907, with a subject index\" by Weeks and J.M. Nickles. In 1933, the Geological Society of America began publication of \"Bibliography and Index of Geology\", and in 1969 it became a joint publication with the American Geological Institute.\n\n"}
{"id": "59078802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59078802", "title": "Bichvinta-Miuseri Strict Nature Reserve", "text": "Bichvinta-Miuseri Strict Nature Reserve\n\nBichvinta-Miuseri Strict Nature Reserve () is a protected area in the Gagra District and Gudauta District of Abkhazia formerly Abkhazia region of Georgia.\nReserve main goal is protecting Bichvinta's relic and colonized flora and fauna.\nBichvinta-Miuseri Strict Nature Reserve is located on the Black Sea coast of Abkhazia and has three sections: Myussera (215 hectares), Lidzava (165 hectares) and Pitsunda (1296 hectares). \n\nBichvinta-Miuseri Strict Nature Reserve famous for groves of Pitsundian pine (Pinus brutia var. pityusa). There are also Buxus colchica, Caucasian walnut (Pterocarya fraxinifolia), yew (Taxus baccata), Colchic figs (Ficus colchica), and Diospyros lotus which are typical for landscapes around the Mediterranean Sea.\n"}
{"id": "137795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=137795", "title": "Bluefield, Virginia", "text": "Bluefield, Virginia\n\nBluefield is a town in Tazewell County, Virginia, United States, located along the Bluestone River. The population was 5,444 at the 2010 census. It is part of the Bluefield WV-VA micropolitan area which has a population of 107,342. The micropolitan area is the 350th largest statistical population area in the United States.\n\nBluefield is located at (37.244195, −81.274926).\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, the town has a total area of 8.0 square miles (19.6 km²), all land.\n\nAs of the census of 2000, there were 5,078 people, 2,134 households, and 1,423 families residing in the town. The population density was 669.9 people per square mile (258.7/km²). There were 2,349 housing units at an average density of 309.9 per square mile (119.7/km²). The racial makeup of the town was 92.30% White, 4.86% African American, 0.32% Native American, 1.42% Asian, 0.12% from other races, and 0.98% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 0.41% of the population.\n\nThere were 2,134 households out of which 21.8% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 56.3% were married couples living together, 8.4% had a female householder with no husband present, and 33.3% were non-families. 30.3% of all households were made up of individuals and 16.5% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.23 and the average family size was 2.77.\n\nIn the town, the population was spread out with 18.0% under the age of 18, 10.2% from 18 to 24, 22.2% from 25 to 44, 27.3% from 45 to 64, and 22.3% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 45 years. For every 100 females, there were 86.1 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 81.5 males.\n\nThe median income for a household in the town was $32,157, and the median income for a family was $44,000. Males had a median income of $34,167 versus $18,875 for females. The per capita income for the town was $21,755. About 3.9% of families and 7.6% of the population were below the poverty line, including 9.6% of those under age 18 and 8.8% of those age 65 or over.\n\nBluefield has not always borne the name Bluefield. The town developed around a small post office named \"Pin Hook\" in the 1860s, named for a small creek that ran through the community. For a brief time it was known as the community of Harman, named after a Civil War hero from the area who had been shot during the Battle of Cloyd's Mountain in Pulaski County, Virginia.\n\nLater, after coal was discovered and a company was formed to build a railroad to the coalfields, the community's name was changed again to \"Graham\" to honor Col. Thomas Graham, a Philadelphia capitalist. The town was first chartered by the Commonwealth of Virginia as the town of Graham in 1884. The Norfolk and Western railroad chose Bluefield, West Virginia over Graham out as the place to build its regional headquarters and main docking yards for the Pocahontas region. As a result, Bluefield, West Virginia grew at a much faster rate than did Graham.\n\nGraham operated under that name until a referendum on June 10, 1924, voted to change its name to Bluefield, Virginia. The name change was celebrated in a mock marriage ceremony held in the city park between officials of Bluefield, Virginia, and Bluefield, West Virginia, to celebrate the renaming of Graham. Its community had borders then that are roughly the same as the downtown area alongside the railroad of today's Bluefield, Virginia.\n\nGraham continued to hope for development as a major city in the region; it tried to attract a steel refining industry alongside the railyards. The Great Depression of the 1930s caused development in the region to come to a halt. The current Bluefield did not start to expand beyond the downtown area until the 1950s, when it annexed the small town of West Graham, Virginia to the west. It also began to develop land in the more open rural foothills to the south of the city.\n\nAs the largest town in Tazewell County, Virginia, Bluefield has expanded since the 1990s and the first decade of the new millennium. After a series of devastating floods in the early 21st century, the town has relocated its town council chambers and police department from the flood-prone historic downtown area to the southernmost point in the city at the foot of East River Mountain. The area has been developed with a Super Wal-Mart and numerous strip malls, and a medical center operating along U.S. Route 460.\n\nBluefield's most prominent residents are Bill Dudley, an NFL Hall of Famer; New York Giants RB Ahmad Bradshaw; Mike Davis of MTV's television show \"The Real World\", from the Bluefield area; and the widow of actor Lorne Greene, who previously lived in a mansion atop a hill overlooking the Sanders house. This is considered one of the most significant historic homes in the city. The Sanders House is now operated as the Tazewell County Visitors Center.\n\nThe Walter McDonald Sanders House and Alexander St. Clair House are listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\n\nEducational institutions include Graham High School and Bluefield College.\n\nThe Bluefield Blue Jays, a minor league baseball team, play their home games at Bowen Field, a stadium in the city park that serves both Bluefield and its neighbor of the same name in West Virginia. Although the park is operated by the West Virginia city, the stadium lies entirely within Virginia.\n\nBluefield College hosts many sports programs, including basketball, soccer, baseball, and now football.\n\n"}
{"id": "143335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=143335", "title": "Celestial navigation", "text": "Celestial navigation\n\nCelestial navigation, also known as astronavigation, is the ancient and modern practice of position fixing that enables a navigator to transition through a space without having to rely on estimated calculations, or dead reckoning, to know their position. Celestial navigation uses \"sights\", or angular measurements taken between a celestial body (e.g. the Sun, the Moon, a planet, or a star) and the visible horizon. The Sun is most commonly used, but navigators can also use the Moon, a planet, Polaris, or one of 57 other navigational stars whose coordinates are tabulated in the nautical almanac and air almanacs.\n\nCelestial navigation is the use of angular measurements (sights) between celestial bodies and the visible horizon to locate one's position in the world, on land as well as at sea. At a given time, any celestial body is located directly over one point on the Earth's surface. The latitude and longitude of that point is known as the celestial body's geographic position (GP), the location of which can be determined from tables in the nautical or air almanac for that year.\n\nThe measured angle between the celestial body and the visible horizon is directly related to the distance between the celestial body's GP and the observer's position. After some computations, referred to as sight reduction, this measurement is used to plot a line of position (LOP) on a navigational chart or plotting work sheet, the observer's position being somewhere on that line. (The LOP is actually a short segment of a very large circle on Earth that surrounds the GP of the observed celestial body. An observer located anywhere on the circumference of this circle on Earth, measuring the angle of the same celestial body above the horizon at that instant of time, would observe that body to be at the same angle above the horizon.) Sights on two celestial bodies give two such lines on the chart, intersecting at the observer's position (actually, the two circles would result in two points of intersection arising from sights on two stars described above, but one can be discarded since it will be far from the estimated position—see the figure at example below). Most navigators will use sights of three to five stars, if available, since that will result in only one common intersection and minimizes the chance of error. That premise is the basis for the most commonly used method of celestial navigation, referred to as the 'altitude-intercept method'.\n\nThere are several other methods of celestial navigation that will also provide position-finding using sextant observations, such as the noon sight, and the more archaic lunar distance method. Joshua Slocum used the lunar distance method during the first recorded single-handed circumnavigation of the world. Unlike the altitude-intercept method, the noon sight and lunar distance methods do not require accurate knowledge of time. The altitude-intercept method of celestial navigation requires that the observer know exact Greenwich Mean Time (GMT) at the moment of his observation of the celestial body, to the second—since for every four seconds that the time source (commonly a chronometer or, in aircraft, an accurate \"hack watch\") is in error, the position will be off by approximately one nautical mile.\n\nAn example illustrating the concept behind the intercept method for determining one’s position is shown to the right. (Two other common methods for determining one’s position using celestial navigation are the longitude by chronometer and ex-meridian methods.) In the adjacent image, the two circles on the map represent lines of position for the Sun and Moon at 1200 GMT on October 29, 2005. At this time, a navigator on a ship at sea measured the Moon to be 56 degrees above the horizon using a sextant. Ten minutes later, the Sun was observed to be 40 degrees above the horizon. Lines of position were then calculated and plotted for each of these observations. Since both the Sun and Moon were observed at their respective angles from the same location, the navigator would have to be located at one of the two locations where the circles cross.\n\nIn this case the navigator is either located on the Atlantic Ocean, about west of Madeira, or in South America, about southwest of Asunción, Paraguay. In most cases, determining which of the two intersections is the correct one is obvious to the observer because they are often thousands of miles apart. As it is unlikely that the ship is sailing across South America, the position in the Atlantic is the correct one. Note that the lines of position in the figure are distorted because of the map’s projection; they would be circular if plotted on a globe.\n\nAn observer in the Gran Chaco point would see the Moon at the left of the Sun, and an observer in the Madeira point would see the Moon at the right of the Sun.\n\nAccurate angle measurement evolved over the years. One simple method is to hold the hand above the horizon with one's arm stretched out. The width of the little finger is an angle just over 1.5 degrees elevation at extended arm's length and can be used to estimate the elevation of the sun from the horizon plane and therefore estimate the time until sunset. The need for more accurate measurements led to the development of a number of increasingly accurate instruments, including the kamal, astrolabe, octant and sextant. The sextant and octant are most accurate because they measure angles from the horizon, eliminating errors caused by the placement of an instrument's pointers, and because their dual mirror system cancels relative motions of the instrument, showing a steady view of the object and horizon.\n\nNavigators measure distance on the globe in degrees, arcminutes and arcseconds. A nautical mile is defined as 1852 meters, but is also (not accidentally) one minute of angle along a meridian on the Earth. Sextants can be read accurately to within 0.2 arcminutes, so the observer's position can be determined within (theoretically) 0.2 miles, about 400 yards (370 m). Most ocean navigators, shooting from a moving platform, can achieve a practical accuracy of 1.5 miles (2.8 km), enough to navigate safely when out of sight of land.\n\nPractical celestial navigation usually requires a marine chronometer to measure time, a sextant to measure the angles, an almanac giving schedules of the coordinates of celestial objects, a set of sight reduction tables to help perform the height and azimuth computations, and a chart of the region. </small> With sight reduction tables, the only calculations required are addition and subtraction. Small handheld computers, laptops and even scientific calculators enable modern navigators to \"reduce\" sextant sights in minutes, by automating all the calculation and/or data lookup steps. Most people can master simpler celestial navigation procedures after a day or two of instruction and practice, even using manual calculation methods.\n\nModern practical navigators usually use celestial navigation in combination with satellite navigation to correct a dead reckoning track, that is, a course estimated from a vessel's position, course and speed. Using multiple methods helps the navigator detect errors, and simplifies procedures. When used this way, a navigator will from time to time measure the sun's altitude with a sextant, then compare that with a precalculated altitude based on the exact time and estimated position of the observation. On the chart, one will use the straight edge of a plotter to mark each position line. If the position line indicates a location more than a few miles from the estimated position, more observations can be taken to restart the dead-reckoning track.\n\nIn the event of equipment or electrical failure, taking sun lines a few times a day and advancing them by dead reckoning allows a vessel to get a crude running fix sufficient to return to port. One can also use the Moon, a planet, Polaris, or one of 57 other navigational stars to track celestial positioning.\n\nLatitude was measured in the past either by measuring the altitude of the Sun at noon (the \"noon sight\"), or by measuring the altitudes of any other celestial body when crossing the meridian (reaching its maximum altitude when due north or south), and frequently by measuring the altitude of Polaris, the north star (assuming it is sufficiently visible above the horizon, which it is not in the Southern Hemisphere). Polaris always stays within 1 degree of the celestial north pole. If a navigator measures the angle to Polaris and finds it to be 10 degrees from the horizon, then he is about 10 degrees north of the equator. This approximate latitude is then corrected using simple tables or almanac corrections to determine a latitude theoretically accurate to within a fraction of a mile. Angles are measured from the horizon because locating the point directly overhead, the zenith, is not normally possible. When haze obscures the horizon, navigators use artificial horizons, which are horizontal mirrors of pans of reflective fluid, especially mercury historically. In the latter case, the angle between the reflected image in the mirror and the actual image of the object in the sky is exactly twice the required altitude.\n\nLongitude can be measured in the same way. If the angle to Polaris can be accurately measured, a similar measurement to a star near the eastern or western horizons will provide the longitude. The problem is that the Earth turns 15 degrees per hour, making such measurements dependent on time. A measure a few minutes before or after the same measure the day before creates serious navigation errors. Before good chronometers were available, longitude measurements were based on the transit of the moon, or the positions of the moons of Jupiter. For the most part, these were too difficult to be used by anyone except professional astronomers. The invention of the modern chronometer by John Harrison in 1761 vastly simplified longitudinal calculation.\n\nThe longitude problem took centuries to solve and was dependent on the construction of a non-pendulum clock (as pendulum clocks cannot function accurately on a tilting ship, or indeed a moving vehicle of any kind). Two useful methods evolved during the 18th century and are still practised today: lunar distance, which does not involve the use of a chronometer, and use of an accurate timepiece or chronometer.\n\nPresently, lay-person calculations of longitude can be made by noting the exact local time (leaving out any reference for Daylight Saving Time) when the sun is at its highest point in the sky. The calculation of noon can be made more easily and accurately with a small, exactly vertical rod driven into level ground—take the time reading when the shadow is pointing due north (in the northern hemisphere). Then take your local time reading and subtract it from GMT (Greenwich Mean Time) or the time in London, England. For example, a noon reading (1200 hours) near central Canada or the US would occur at approximately 6 pm (1800 hours) in London. The six-hour differential is one quarter of a 24-hour day, or 90 degrees of a 360-degree circle (the Earth). The calculation can also be made by taking the number of hours (use decimals for fractions of an hour) multiplied by 15, the number of degrees in one hour. Either way, it can be demonstrated that much of central North America is at or near 90 degrees west longitude. Eastern longitudes can be determined by adding the local time to GMT, with similar calculations.\n\nThe older method, called \"lunar distances\", was refined in the 18th century and employed with decreasing regularity at sea through the middle of the 19th century. It is only used today by sextant hobbyists and historians, but the method is theoretically sound, and can be used when a timepiece is not available or its accuracy is suspect during a long sea voyage. The navigator precisely measures the angle between the moon and the sun, or between the moon and one of several stars near the ecliptic. The observed angle must be corrected for the effects of refraction and parallax, like any celestial sight. To make this correction the navigator would measure the altitudes of the moon and sun (or star) at about the same time as the lunar distance angle. Only rough values for the altitudes were required. Then a calculation with logarithms or graphical tables requiring ten to fifteen minutes' work would convert the observed angle to a geocentric lunar distance. The navigator would compare the corrected angle against those listed in the almanac for every three hours of Greenwich time, and interpolate between those values to get the actual Greenwich time aboard ship. Knowing Greenwich time and comparing against local time from a common altitude sight, the navigator can work out his longitude.\n\nThe considerably more popular method was (and still is) to use an accurate timepiece to directly measure the time of a sextant sight. The need for accurate navigation led to the development of progressively more accurate chronometers in the 18th century (see John Harrison). Today, time is measured with a chronometer, a quartz watch, a shortwave radio time signal broadcast from an atomic clock, or the time displayed on a GPS. A quartz wristwatch normally keeps time within a half-second per day. If it is worn constantly, keeping it near body heat, its rate of drift can be measured with the radio and, by compensating for this drift, a navigator can keep time to better than a second per month. Traditionally, a navigator checked his chronometer from his sextant, at a geographic marker surveyed by a professional astronomer. This is now a rare skill, and most harbourmasters cannot locate their harbour's marker.\n\nTraditionally, three chronometers were kept in gimbals in a dry room near the centre of the ship. They were used to set a hack watch for the actual sight, so that no chronometers were ever exposed to the wind and salt water on deck. Winding and comparing the chronometers was a crucial duty of the navigator. Even today, it is still logged daily in the ship's deck log and reported to the Captain before eight bells on the forenoon watch (shipboard noon). Navigators also set the ship's clocks and calendar.\n\nThe celestial line of position concept was discovered in 1837 by Thomas Hubbard Sumner when, after one observation, he computed and plotted his longitude at more than one trial latitude in his vicinity – and noticed that the positions lay along a line. Using this method with two bodies, navigators were finally able to cross two position lines and obtain their position – in effect determining both latitude and longitude. Later in the 19th century came the development of the modern (Marcq St. Hilaire) intercept method; with this method the body height and azimuth are calculated for a convenient trial position, and compared with the observed height. The difference in arcminutes is the nautical mile \"intercept\" distance that the position line needs to be shifted toward or away from the direction of the body's subpoint. (The intercept method uses the concept illustrated in the example in the “How it works” section above.) Two other methods of reducing sights are the longitude by chronometer and the ex-meridian method.\n\nWhile celestial navigation is becoming increasingly redundant with the advent of inexpensive and highly accurate satellite navigation receivers (GPS), it was used extensively in aviation until the 1960s, and marine navigation until quite recently. However; since a prudent mariner never relies on any sole means of fixing his position, many national maritime authorities still require deck officers to show knowledge of celestial navigation in examinations, primarily as a backup for electronic/satellite navigation. One of the most common current usages of celestial navigation aboard large merchant vessels is for compass calibration and error checking at sea when no terrestrial references are available.\n\nThe U.S. Air Force and U.S. Navy continued instructing military aviators on celestial navigation use until 1997, because:\n\nThe United States Naval Academy announced that it was discontinuing its course on celestial navigation (considered to be one of its most demanding non-engineering courses) from the formal curriculum in the spring of 1998. In October 2015, citing concerns about the reliability of GPS systems in the face of potential hostile hacking, the USNA reinstated instruction in celestial navigation in the 2015–16 academic year.\n\nAt another federal service academy, the US Merchant Marine Academy, there was no break in instruction in celestial navigation as it is required to pass the US Coast Guard License Exam to enter the Merchant Marine. It is also taught at Harvard, most recently as Astronomy 2.\n\nCelestial navigation continues to be used by private yachtsmen, and particularly by long-distance cruising yachts around the world. For small cruising boat crews, celestial navigation is generally considered an essential skill when venturing beyond visual range of land. Although GPS (Global Positioning System) technology is reliable, offshore yachtsmen use celestial navigation as either a primary navigational tool or as a backup.\n\nCelestial navigation was used in commercial aviation up until the early part of the jet age; early Boeing 747s had a \"sextant port\" in the roof of the cockpit. It was only phased out in the 1960s with the advent of inertial navigation and doppler navigation systems, and today's satellite-based systems which can locate the aircraft's position accurate to a 3-meter sphere with several updates per second.\n\nA variation on terrestrial celestial navigation was used to help orient the Apollo spacecraft en route to and from the Moon. To this day, space missions such as the Mars Exploration Rover use star trackers to determine the attitude of the spacecraft.\n\nAs early as the mid-1960s, advanced electronic and computer systems had evolved enabling navigators to obtain automated celestial sight fixes. These systems were used aboard both ships and US Air Force aircraft, and were highly accurate, able to lock onto up to 11 stars (even in daytime) and resolve the craft's position to less than . The SR-71 high-speed reconnaissance aircraft was one example of an aircraft that used a combination of automated celestial and inertial navigation. These rare systems were expensive, however, and the few that remain in use today are regarded as backups to more reliable satellite positioning systems.\n\nIntercontinental ballistic missiles use celestial navigation to check and correct their course (initially set using internal gyroscopes) while flying outside the Earth's atmosphere. The immunity to jamming signals is the main driver behind this seemingly archaic technique.\n\nX-ray pulsar-based navigation and timing (XNAV) is an experimental navigation technique whereby the periodic X-ray signals emitted from pulsars are used to determine the location of a vehicle, such as a spacecraft in deep space. A vehicle using XNAV would compare received X-ray signals with a database of known pulsar frequencies and locations. Similar to GPS, this comparison would allow the vehicle to triangulate its position accurately (±5 km). The advantage of using X-ray signals over radio waves is that X-ray telescopes can be made smaller and lighter. On 9 November 2016 the Chinese Academy of Sciences launched an experimental pulsar navigation satellite called XPNAV 1. SEXTANT (Station Explorer for X-ray Timing and Navigation Technology) is a NASA-funded project developed at the Goddard Space Flight Center that is testing XNAV on-orbit on board the International Space Station in connection with the NICER project, launched on 3 June 2017 on the SpaceX CRS-11 ISS resupply mission.\n\nCelestial navigation trainers for aircraft crews combine a simple flight simulator with a planetarium.\n\nAn early example is the Link Celestial Navigation Trainer, used in the Second World War. Housed in a high building, it featured a cockpit accommodating a whole bomber crew (pilot, navigator and bombardier). The cockpit offered a full array of instruments which the pilot used to fly the simulated aeroplane. Fixed to a dome above the cockpit was an arrangement of lights, some collimated, simulating constellations from which the navigator determined the plane's position. The dome's movement simulated the changing positions of the stars with the passage of time and the movement of the plane around the earth. The navigator also received simulated radio signals from various positions on the ground. Below the cockpit moved \"terrain plates\" – large, movable aerial photographs of the land below – which gave the crew the impression of flight and enabled the bomber to practise lining up bombing targets. A team of operators sat at a control booth on the ground below the machine, from which they could simulate weather conditions such as wind or cloud. This team also tracked the aeroplane's position by moving a \"crab\" (a marker) on a paper map.\n\nThe Link Celestial Navigation Trainer was developed in response to a request made by the Royal Air Force (RAF) in 1939. The RAF ordered 60 of these machines, and the first one was built in 1941. The RAF used only a few of these, leasing the rest back to the US, where eventually hundreds were in use.\n\n"}
{"id": "24769645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24769645", "title": "City marketing", "text": "City marketing\n\nCity marketing (related to city branding) is the promotion of a city, or a district within it, with the aim of encouraging certain activities to take place there. It is used to alter the external perceptions of a city in order to encourage tourism, attract inward migration of residents, or enable business relocation. A significant feature of city marketing is the development of new landmark, or 'flagship', buildings and structures. The development of cities as a marketable product has led to competition between them for inward investment and government funding. It is often manifested in the attempts by cities to attract international sporting events, such as the Olympic Games. Competition between cities exists at the regional, national and international level; and is an effect of globalisation.Some places are associated with certain brands and build on each other, but sometimes the commercial brand is so powerful that eclipses the place brand. An example of this is Maranello, Italy, which uses the Ferrari headquarters as a primary attraction for tourists.\n\nCity marketing can occur \"strategically\" or \"organically\". An example of strategic city marketing is Las Vegas. The city is promoted through a variety of efforts with the strategic intent of acquiring cultural and economic bonuses. A case of organic city marketing is Jerusalem. The city is marketed without a grand strategy, as disorganized stakeholders over the course of centuries have glorified the city and encouraged pilgrimage, yielding cultural and economic bonuses. Both cases demonstrate city marketing, each with varying strategic and organic involvement. Generally, organic marketing occurs alongside strategic marketing, as the perception of the city is impossible to solely construct with strategic efforts. \n\nAccording to Scott Cutlip, \"one of the first, if not the first, municipal promotion programs\" was led by Erastus Brainerd for the city of Seattle beginning in 1896. Seattle was in competition with Portland and Victoria as the preferred city in which to get supplied for the Klondike Gold Rush. A Bureau of Public Information was established within the city’s Chamber of Commerce.\n\nLike with any successful marketing effort, cities must be willing to commit to a long-term plan in order for their identity and message to be communicated effectively. A shared vision between stakeholders will help develop a cohesive overarching strategy for a city's image.\n\nThe City Brand Index is released biannually and ranks the image of 50 cities on 6 components: presence, place, potential, pulse, people, and prerequisites. In the 2015 report, Paris took the top spot, with London, New York, Sydney, and Los Angeles taking the 2nd–5th spots respectively. \n\n"}
{"id": "6312276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6312276", "title": "Cityscape of Huntington, West Virginia", "text": "Cityscape of Huntington, West Virginia\n\nHuntington, West Virginia's central business district is located to the south of the Ohio River, east of the Robert C. Byrd Bridge, and west of Hal Greer Boulevard. Broad avenues and streets dominate the streetscape, creating for the most part an even grid pattern. Another business district is in Old Central City, known for its numerous antique shops and Heiner's Bakery.\n\nSeveral major industries line the river, from the Steel of West Virginia industrial complex next to Marshall University to Special Metals, located along the Guyandotte River in the Altizer neighborhood. The proximity of the Ohio River played an important role in the development of heavy industry in the 19th and 20th centuries. The Rust Belt deindustrialization era of the 1970s led to a decline in the industrial base and, subsequently, Huntington's population.\n\nThe saving grace, in terms of employment, has been the steadily growing service sector. Two major hospitals, St. Mary's and Cabell-Huntington, have seen major expansion projects that have doubled their footprints during the past twenty years.\n\nThe city's architecture contains a wealth of historic structures, most built during the boom of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad and the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway. Notable structures include the 12-story St. James Building (housing The First State Bank), with its huge Doric columns presenting a grand entrance to the ornate lobby. The West Virginia Building is a deep-red brick structure that looms over 4th Avenue. At the time of its completion, it was the tallest tower in the state, but it has since fallen to 18th, behind the office towers of Charleston. Numerous other notable buildings are scattered throughout the downtown, ranging from the beautifully restored Guaranty Bank and Trust Building to the high-rise Coal Exchange Building. Grand residential homes and mansions line Ritter Creek and the steep hills that loom behind it, many built by the railroad barons of the past.\n\nDuring the 1960s and 1970s, major urban renewal projects began in Huntington. Four square blocks between 3rd Avenue and what is now Veterans Memorial Boulevard were demolished. One block was utilized for the construction of the Huntington Civic Center, while another featured a Wendy's fast-food restaurant and an apartment building. Two square blocks remained a vast parking lot for the greater part of 30 years, bordered by 8th Street, Veterans Memorial Boulevard, 10th Street, and 3rd Avenue, and was nicknamed the Superblock. The inclusion of a Chi-Chi's Mexican restaurant on a small corner parcel in the early 1990s was the only development along the Superblock. The urban renewal effort of the past also produced the Radisson Hotel complex along 3rd Avenue, a new Mack and Dave's storefront, and Heritage Station. It also spawned the pedestrian-only 9th Street Plaza.\n\nA new Holiday Inn hotel complex was constructed in 1998 between 8th and 9th streets. In 2004, construction began on Pullman Square, a lifestyle center, which consumed the remainder of the Superblock. It opened later that year.\n\nIn July 2006, work began on the improved 9th Street Plaza, which features sidewalks, outdoor seating for restaurants, two travel lanes, and center angled parking. Brick pedestals were constructed that hold two spires from the former 6th Street Bridge, installed at the entrances to the plaza at 3rd and 5th avenues. The new 9th Street Plaza reopened on December 1, 2006, and creates a symbolic link between the Pullman Square district and the remainder of downtown.\n\nAs a result of much needed downtown investment, numerous properties have been renovated or are in the process of renovations, and new storefronts and lofts are being constructed. One of the spin-offs from the construction of Pullman Square was the renovation of the 900 block of 3rd Avenue, which was nearly all vacant. The renovation of numerous facades elsewhere, such as the removal of metal sheathing over brickwork, have been ongoing. During the construction of Pullman Square, the renovations along the 900 block of 3rd Avenue commenced, with most storefronts now being rented out. On the Friday after Thanksgiving in 2007, Le Cook Store opened across from Pullman Square; the Marshall Community and Technical College's Culinary Institute, which offers cooking classes and sample food tastings, also opened. Another tenant, C.F. Reuschlein Jewelers, opened during the same month along the block.\nOn June 5, 1999, a study was unveiled for streetscape improvements, some of which was later incorporated as part of the Pullman Square and 9th Street Plaza projects. The study reported that the \"old downtown of department stores\" was gone and that successful downtowns of today need to attract \"residential development in upper stories\" in which retail stores would follow, and then offices and restaurants. Some of the recommendations included:\n\nDuring the height of the urban renewal projects of the 1960s and 1970s, community and local leaders became involved with the fund-raising efforts of the Cabell-Wayne Historical Society and the Collis P. Huntington Railroad Historical Society. The goal was to create a unique downtown shopping, dining, and entertainment complex with a mix of historical structures relocated from other sites in Huntington. Although it is now considered a \"lifestyle center\", it was at the time a rather novel idea in a push to get traffic into the downtown area.\n\nHeritage Village (now Heritage Station) was completed on September 2, 1977. It features the 1892 Baltimore and Ohio Railroad passenger station, a 1911 B&O Railroad freight house, and the 1871 Bank of Huntington building. The railroad structures from the B&O became obsolete in 1965 with the consolidation of its operations into the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad in Huntington. The C&O Railroad donated two boxcars, and the railroad historical society donated a steam engine and a Southern Railway sleeping car, also called a Pullman.\n\nLocated at the corner of Veterans Memorial Blvd and 11th Street in Downtown Huntington, Heritage Station is now a well-attended lifestyle center, with lots eclectic, locally owned shops offering a variety of unique gifts including an artisan gift shop, a local market, a coffee shop and bakery, a wine bar, a fine cigar store, a beer and cheese shop,the first Craft Beer bar in town and a vintage clothing and jewelry shop, and others.\n\nPullman Square is a lifestyle center in downtown Huntington between 8th and 10th streets and 3rd Avenue and Veterans Memorial Boulevard. It is located on what was known as the \"Superblock\", a large urban renewal project that saw the demolishing of four city-square blocks in 1970. The collection of one- and two-story structures includes the 16-screen movie theater, Marquee Cinemas. It also includes numerous retail establishments and restaurants.\n\nThe Old Main Corridor project, envisioned originally as a streetscape redevelopment of 4th Avenue between Hal Greer Boulevard to 6th Street in downtown Huntington, was revamped and unveiled on October 31, 2006, at the Memorial Student Center of Marshall University. The goal is to connect the downtown and the university by \"building off the success of Pullman Square.\"\n\nThe original plan, designed in 2003, entailed the construction of gardens and a public plaza along Hal Greer Boulevard at 4th and 5th avenues adjacent to Marshall University, along with the streetscape improvements. The gardens and public plazas were eliminated from the revamped plans due to cost. The new design is estimated to cost $2.5 million. Funding has been secured for the project between 9th and 10th streets along 4th Avenue with construction beginning in 2007. $350,000 has been requested in a federal transportation enhancement grant that would cover the cost of streetscape improvements between Hal Greer Boulevard and 12th Street; construction on that section could begin in 2008.\n\nThe final result will include the repaving of 4th Avenue and the reduction of lanes from four to two—one lane in each direction with left-turn lanes at each intersection—and the addition of bike lanes from Hal Greer Boulevard to 6th Street; on-street parking will not be affected. New trees and street lights, similar to what was installed along 3rd Avenue near Pullman Square and along 9th Street, will be installed along 4th Avenue. Other safety improvement projects and traffic calming features, such as the replacing of sidewalks and curb extensions, will enhance pedestrian safety.\n\nKinetic Park is a technology park being developed along Interstate 64 in Huntington. There are two sections of Kenetic Park. The lower section of the park will be used for commercial businesses, and the upper section of the park will be used for technology startups and corporations. Currently, there are three commercial and eleven technology lots available.\n\nThe lower level of Kinetic Park has over available for commercial uses that will complement the Technology Park area. Intended uses include restaurants, lodging, banking, personal services and other retail businesses that can conveniently serve employees of the Technology Park and surrounding area. Currently only two tenants occupy the commercial level, a Bob Evans restaurant and a TownePlace Suites by Marriott.\n\nThe upper level of Kinetic Park consists of nearly available for businesses that desire a signature location within a state-of-the-art high technology equipped office park. The first tenants, Huntington Dermatology and Sullivan Webb, were to move into a new structure in spring 2007. Amazon.com began construction on a new customer support call center at the site in July 2011, to replace the call center it had located in downtown Huntington. Work on the building was completed the following October and was opened soon afterwards.\n\nThere are numerous historical and modern buildings at Marshall University. The tallest of these are the Twin Towers, and the oldest is Old Main. In 2007, construction was expected to begin on the Health and Wellness Center, which includes two new dormitories and a parking garage.\n\n"}
{"id": "9358100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9358100", "title": "Congo Pedicle", "text": "Congo Pedicle\n\nThe Congo Pedicle (at one time referred to as the Zaire Pedicle; in French \"\", meaning 'Katanga boot') refers to the southeast salient of the Katanga Province of the Democratic Republic of Congo which sticks into neighbouring Zambia, dividing it into two lobes. In area, the pedicle is similar in size to Wales or New Jersey. 'Pedicle' is used in the sense of 'a little foot'. 'Congo Pedicle' or 'the Pedicle' is also used to refer to the Congo Pedicle road which crosses it.\n\nThe Congo Pedicle is an example of the arbitrary boundaries imposed by European powers on Africa in the wake of the Scramble for Africa, which were \"drawn by Europeans, for Europeans, and, apart from a some localized detail, paid scant regard to Africa, let alone Africans.\"\n\nCecil Rhodes's British South Africa Company approached Katanga from the south, the Belgian King Leopold II's Congo Free State (CFS) approached from the northwest. Southeast Katanga was controlled by the Yeke or Garanganze kingdom of Msiri based at Bunkeya (see map), and the BSAC and CFS competed to sign treaties with him, while he tried to play the one off against the other. For more detail and the story of how a CFS expedition led by a Canadian killed Msiri in December 1891, see the article on Msiri.\n\nAfter Msiri's death the CFS was faster off the mark to consolidate their claim to Msiri's territory called 'Garanganza', and later Katanga, west up to the Luapula. Since 1885 they already had claimed land north of the Congo-Zambezi watershed. The BSAC were left with the land south of the watershed and east of the Luapula. The 1884–5 Berlin Conference was organised by Germany to resolve the outcome of the Scramble for Africa. It did not set the actual boundaries but agreed areas of influence, including the CFS's control over the Congo. Detailed borders were left to bilateral negotiations.\nThe main problem of both the Belgian and British sides over the southeast Katanga border was the lack of an obvious geographical feature for the border to follow, as the Congo-Zambezi watershed and the Luapula do not meet. There is a gap between them and, separated by a distance of 70 to 150 km they run in an arc curving northeast, running almost parallel but gradually getting closer, and would reach the highlands between Lakes Tanganyika and Nyasa if the Chambeshi River were accepted as being the same river as the Luapula.\n\nFrom the British point of view, the obvious choice for the border is the base of the salient, a southwest to northeast line from the watershed to the Luapula. Failing agreement on that, a second option would be to continue southwards the line of the Luapula-Lake Mweru valley (longitude 28° 35' E) which forms the longest north-south part of border, until it intersects the Congo-Zambezi watershed. So all of the country immediately east of a north-south line through Ndola would then be in Northern Rhodesia. But the Belgians hoped for access to the rich game areas of the Bangweulu wetlands and pressed for the borders to stick to the river and watershed. In negotiations for a treaty some 'trading' of territories was involved in northeast Congo, Sudan and Uganda. There was also the question of how far east into the Bangweulu swamps and floodplain the Pedicle should extend. The King of Italy was called in to adjudicate and he drew a north-south line (a line of longitude) through a point on the map where the Luapula was thought to exit from the Lake Bangweulu swamps, and finally the Pedicle was born: 70 to 100 km wide and about 200 km long.\n\nThe agreement was incorporated into this larger treaty which dealt mainly with Equatoria.\n\nIt became apparent as the region was more closely surveyed that on the ground there were a number of problems. The Luapula does not always flow in a single channel, there are islands, swamps, multiple channels and the main channel may change according to the river height. It is particularly confusing south of Bangweulu, where there is not one single clear channel exiting the swamps but a tangled mass of channels in swamps and floodplains tens of kilometres wide, and the Italian King's line of longitude crossed them at multiple points.\n\nAn Anglo-Belgian Boundary Commission was established in 1911 to survey the boundaries on the ground, resolve the problems and mark the border with posts and timber towers used for triangulation. The Italian King's ruler was moved west to a point where it did cut a clearly defined channel in one place. Finally the work was complete in 1914.\n\nAs a consequence of Katanga attaining the Pedicle, it gained a toehold in the Bangweulu wetlands and potential mineral resources, although as it turned out, the division of the main copper ore body between the Congo and Northern Rhodesia was determined by the Congo-Zambezi watershed and would not have been affected by the existence or otherwise of the Pedicle. It was the BSAC's failure to get Msiri to sign up Garanganza as a British Protectorate which lost the Congolese Copperbelt to Northern Rhodesia, and some in the BSAC complained that the British missionaries Frederick Arnot and Charles Swan could have done more to help, although their Plymouth Brethren mission had a policy of not being involved in politics. Once Msiri was killed by the CFS it was too late to try again, and consequently the leader of CFS expedition responsible, Canadian Captain William Stairs was viewed by some in Northern Rhodesia as a traitor to the British Empire.\n\nThe problems for Zambia did not emerge for another 50 years, with the Katanga crisis of 1960-63. The Pedicle cuts off the Luapula Province and the western part of the Northern Province from the country's industrial and commercial hub of the Copperbelt. This is exacerbated by the fact that at the Pedicle's toetip, where the Luapula ostensibly flows out of the Bangweulu system, the river swamps are at least 6 km wide and the floodplain is 60 km wide, making a road impossible with the resources available for most of the 20th century. The most southerly road possible into Luapula keeping to Zambian territory was pushed, by these circumstances, another 200 km north, going around Lake Bangweulu.\n\nStrategically the Congo Pedicle is an issue for Zambia, though not for DR Congo. As well as affecting communication for about one-quarter of the country with the centre and west, it potentially exposes a greater part of Zambia, which has generally enjoyed peace for more than 100 years, to conflict in Katanga, which has not. Zambia has witnessed violence in Katanga between armed factions and by the military against civilians which occasionally has spilled over into Zambia, or which has affected Zambians travelling on the Pedicle road. At times, it has been closed to them making the huge detour around the north and east of Bangweulu the only option. Secondly, cross-border crime and arms smuggling has been a problem in the Copperbelt, as has poaching in the Bangweulu wetlands.\n\n"}
{"id": "5495419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5495419", "title": "Daïra", "text": "Daïra\n\nA daïra or daerah ( \"circle\"; plural \"dawaïr\") is an administrative division in Algeria and Western Sahara in West Africa, as well as Brunei, Indonesia and Malaysia in Southeast Asia. It is commonly translated in English as \"district\".\n\n\"Daïra\" is the primary spelling variant used in Algeria and Western Sahara. It is a subdivision of wilayah in both countries.\n\n\"Daerah\" is an Arabic loanword in Malay and Indonesian, which is cognate with \"daïra\".\n\nA daerah or district is the primary subdivision of Brunei. There are four , namely Belait, Brunei-Muara, Temburong and Tutong. A daerah is subdivided into mukims (equivalent to subdistricts) and subsequently villages ().\n\nIn Indonesia, \"daerah\" is used as in the term , which refers to the Special Regions or provinces with special status. There are five Special Regions, namely Aceh, Jakarta, Special Region of Yogyakarta, Papua and West Papua.\n\nA daerah or district is a type of state administrative divisions in Malaysia. It is the primary subdivision of the states in Peninsular Malaysia, where as in Sabah and Sarawak in Malaysian Borneo, it is the secondary subdivision which is below divisions. Regardless, any daerah may be subdivided into mukim.\n"}
{"id": "670504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=670504", "title": "Districts of Brunei", "text": "Districts of Brunei\n\nDistricts () are the principal administrative divisions of Brunei. The country is divided into four districts, consisting of Brunei-Muara, Belait, Tutong and Temburong. Each district is headed by a District Officer (). Temburong is an exclave; it is physically separated from the other three districts by Limbang, a district in the Malaysian state of Sarawak. Each district has a town as its administrative and main economic centre, with the exception of Brunei-Muara, where Bandar Seri Begawan, apart from being the capital city of Brunei, is also the district's principal centre.\n\nEach district is administered by a District Office (), where District Offices are government departments under the Ministry of Home Affairs. The head of each department is a District Officer () and appointed by the government.\n\nA district is further divided into mukims (equivalent to 'subdistricts'), and subsequently each mukim consists of several villages (). Each District Office manages the mukims and villages which are within its district.\n\n"}
{"id": "2884986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2884986", "title": "Ex-meridian", "text": "Ex-meridian\n\nEx-meridian is a celestial navigation method of calculating an observer’s position on Earth. The method gives the observer a position line on which the observer is situated. It is usually used when the Sun is obscured at noon, and as a result, a meridian altitude is not possible. The navigator measures the altitude of the Sun as close to noon as possible and then calculates where the position line lies.\n\nThis method uses an assumed longitude and calculates the latitude that a position line crosses it. The position line obtained is actually part of a small circle, as opposed to great circle, where any observer can stand and the heavenly object would have the same altitude in the sky. When plotting the small segment of this circle on a chart it is drawn as a straight line, the resulting tiny errors are too small to be significant.\n\nThe assumed longitude is usually obtained from the DR or Dead Reckoning position run up from a morning sight taken at around 9.00 am. This is worked out by applying the distance from that position either by log or by the estimated speed over time with the course steered. A sight is taken, that is the distance above the horizon of a heavenly object, in this case nearly always the sun, is measured with a sextant and the exact time noted in UTC. The sextant angle obtained is corrected for dip (the error caused by the observers height above the sea) and refraction to obtain the true altitude of the object above the horizon. This is then subtracted from 90° to obtain the angular distance from the position directly above, the zenith. This is referred to as the True Zenith Distance. The true zenith distance of the object is also the distance (in arc) on the Earth's surface from the observer to where that object is overhead, the geographical position of the object.\n\nUsing a nautical almanac, the declination (celestial latitude), and the Greenwich hour angle (celestial longitude) are obtained of the observed object for the time of observation. The assumed longitude is now added or subtracted to the Greenwich Hour Angle of the object to obtain the local hour angle, that is the difference in longitude between the DR position and the geographical position of the object.\n\nWith this information it is possible using the haversine formula to calculate the latitude where the position line crosses the assumed longitude. The formula is:\n\nformula_1\n\nWhere\n\nformula_2 = Meridian Zenith Distance\n\nformula_3 = True Zenith Distance\n\nformula_4 = Local Hour Angle\n\nformula_5 = DR Latitude\n\nformula_6 = Declination\n\nOnce the value of the Meridian Zenith Distance is obtained the algebraic sum of it with the declination of the object gives the latitude of a point where the position line crosses the meridian of DR longitude.\n\nTo draw the position line on a chart the azimuth or bearing of the heavenly object must be known. It is usually calculated but could have been observed. A line at right angles to the azimuth is drawn through the calculated position which is where the calculated latitude and the DR longitude cross. The observer is somewhere on this line.\n\nTo obtain a fix (a position) this line must be crossed with another position line either from another sight or from elsewhere. In the case of ex-meridian the position line is usually crossed with the position line obtained earlier which has been run up.\n\nThe first of these tables applies corrections to the altitude taken with the argument of \"Change of Altitude in one minute from Meridian Passage\". Two other tables apply more corrections until the correct latitude is arrived at. \n\nThe Ex-Meridian method of calculating sights is at its most accurate when the azimuth of the object is near to south or north. As the azimuth changes towards the east or west the cross of the position line with the assumed longitude becomes more and more oblique and the position obtained is therefore less accurate. For this reason it is a less versatile method of calculating sights than the intercept method which can be used for all azimuths. The tables are a quick and easy way to correct the altitude when the object is fairly low in the sky and the observer has only missed noon by a few minutes but if noon has been missed by more than that or the sun is high in the sky it is better to work out a sight by the intercept method.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "716457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=716457", "title": "Flags and arms of cantons of Switzerland", "text": "Flags and arms of cantons of Switzerland\n\nEach of the 26 modern cantons of Switzerland has an official flag and a coat of arms.\nThe history of development of these designs spans the 13th to the 20th centuries.\n\nThe cantons are listed in their order of precedence given in the federal constitution. This reflects the historical order of precedence of the Eight Cantons in the 15th century, followed by the remaining cantons in the order of their historical accession to the confederacy.\n\n\"Standesfarben\" were used to identify the (historical) cantons when the full banner was not available for display, although there is overlap; Unterwalden and Solothurn share the same colours, as do Basel and Appenzell, and with the accession of the modern cantons, Valais and Basel-City, and St. Gallen and Thurgau.\n\nOf the 26 cantons since 1999 (22 cantons in 1848, accession of Jura in 1979, three half-cantons designated \"canton\" in 1999):\n\nDistinctively, Swiss cantons use square flags.\n\nHistorically, the number of cantons was:\n\nNidwalden and Obwalden form traditional subdivisions of Unterwalden. Basel-Stadt and Basel-Landschaft, as well as Appenzell Inner- and Ausserrhoden, are half cantons, resulting from the division of Basel and Appenzell, respectively.\nThe Swiss Federal Constitution of 1999 abandoned the use of the term \"half-canton\" as an official designation, so that the official number of cantons became 26 - the former half-cantons being now referred to as \"cantons with half a cantonal vote\" officially, even though they are still commonly referred to as\" half-cantons\".\n\nWith the exception of Lucerne, Schwyz and Ticino, the cantonal flags are simply transposed versions of the cantonal coats of arms. In case of Lucerne and Ticino, whose flags consist of fields of different colours divided per fess (horizontally), the coats of arms are of the same colours divided per pale (vertically). The coat of arms of Schwyz has the cross moved from the (hoist) canton to the sinister canton with respect to the flag.\nThe coats of arms of the Thirteen Cantons are based on medieval signs, originating as war flags and as emblems used on seals.\nFor war flags, a distinction was made between \"Banner\" and \"Fähnlein\", the former was the large war flag used only in the case of a full levy of cantonal troops for a major operation. The latter was a smaller flag used for minor military expeditions. The \"Banner\" was considered a sacred possession, usually kept in a church. Losing the banner to an enemy force was a great shame and invited mockery from other cantons.\n\nPope Julius II in recognition of the support he received from Swiss mercenaries against France \nin 1512 granted the Swiss the title of \"Ecclesiasticae libertatis defensores\" and gave them two large banners, besides a blessed sword and hat. Papal legate Matthias Schiner in addition gave to the Swiss cantons and their associates a total of 42 costly silk banners with \naugmentations, the so-called \"Juliusbanner\". \nSome of these banners survive, of the cantonal ones notably those of Zürich and Solothurn.\n\nThe fashion of arranging cantonal insignia in shields (\"escutcheons\") as coats of arms arises in the late 15th century.\nThe \"Tagsatzung\" in Baden was presented with stained glass representations of all cantons in ca. 1501.\nIn these designs, two cantonal \"escutcheons\" were shown side by side, below a shield bearing the Imperial Eagle and a crown, flanked by two banner-bearers.\nBased on these, there arose a tradition of representing cantonal arms in stained glass (\"Standesscheiben\"), alive throughout the early modern period and continued in the modern state.\n\nThe flag of Zürich is derived from a blue-and-white design attested since the 1220s, the diagonal division of the flag is first attested 1389.\n\nThe flag of Zürich was adorned by a red Schwenkel since 1273. This was regarded as a mark of sovereignty and honour by the people of Zürich, but the Schwenkel was otherwise used as a mark of \"shame\", identifying replacement flags used after a real flag was captured by an enemy\nThis led to a misunderstanding after the Battle of Nancy, when the Duke of Lorraine removed the Schwenkel from the Zürich flag, stating that with the present victory, Zürich had \"erased its shame\". The perplexed Zürich troops later quietly re-attached the Schwenkel.\n\nZürich attached the Swiss cross in the red Schwenkel rather than in the main flag, and this may have contributed to the development of the flag of Switzerland (placing the white cross in a red field by default).\nThe city of Bern is a Zähringer foundation of 1160. In the 13th century, its flag showed a black bear in a white field, changed to the current red-and-yellow diagonal arrangement in 1289.\nBern also had a war flag with a simple red-and-black horizontal division. The cantonal colours remain red and black.\n\nThe blue-and-white flag is attested from 1386.\nThe vertical division of the coat or arms has been explained as due to a gonfalon type of banner used by Lucerne, hung from a horizontal crossbar, which was also used as a flagstaff, so that the flag was turned by 90 degrees when carried in battle.\n\nThe flag originates in the 13th century. It was carried in the battles of Morgarten (1315) and Laupen (1339). One 14th century flag is preserved in the town hall of Altdorf.\n\nSchwyz used a solid red war flag (Blutbanner) from 1240.\n\nFrom the 14th century, a depiction of the crucifixion was sometimes shown on the flag.\n\nPope Sixtus IV confirmed this addition in 1480, stating explicitly that the crown of thorns and the nails (Arma Christi) should be shown.\nThe coat of arms remained solid red throughout the 16th to 18th centuries, but from the 17th century in depictions in print (in black and white), the cross was sometimes shown.\n\nThe modern design of flag and coat of arms with the cross in one corner dates to 1815. The precise definition of the proportions of the cross dates to 1963.\n\nThe flag Unterwalden, as the canton itself, has a complicated history, on one hand due to the rivalry of the constituent half-cantons Obwalden and Nidwalden, and on the other because its historical flag was identical to that of Solothurn.\n\nThe war flag of Obwalden was plain red and white, first recorded in 1309.\nNidwalden tended to be dominated by Obwalden and usually fought under the same banner.\n\nA single key was used in the seal of Nidwalden from the mid 13th century.\nThis seal was used for both Obwalden and Nidwalden (i.e. the united canton of Unterwalden) during the early 14th century. The addition et vallis superioris \"and the upper valley\" was scratched into the seal to reflect this.\nAt this point, there was a seal (with the key) and a war flag (red-and-white), but no coat of arms.\nFrom ca. 1360, Obwalden and Nidwalden were separated into two independent territories, while keeping a single vote in the confederate diet. Because of the \"and the upper valley\" addition scratched into the seal, Nidwalden began using a new seal of its own, and the seal of Unterwalden, formerly the seal of Nidwalden, now was used by Obwalden. The seal of Nidwalden now showed St. Peter with his keys.\n\nNidwalden began using the double-key as a design on its war flag from the early 15th century.\nThe red-and-white flag of Unterwalden was now also the flag of Obwalden if both half-cantons were to be represented separately.\nThis was the situation as the fashion of coats of arms was introduced in the late 15th century.\nThe early Standesscheiben of the first decade of the 16th century show\nthe double-key as the coat of arms and flag of Nidwalden, while Obwalden has the red-and-white design in both its flag and its coat of arms.\n\nDuring the 17th and 18th centuries, the coat of arms of the combined canton of Unterwalden came to be depicted as a superposition of the red-and-white flag of Obwalden and the double-key of Nidwalden.\n\nOnly in the mid 18th century does the single-key symbol (taken from the 13th-century seal) appear occasionally in coats of arms of Obwalden.\nThis design was introduced as the official coats of arms of Obwalden in 1816, and the same design came gradually into use also for the flag of Obwalden, which also resolved the problem of the Obwalden flag being identical to that of Solothurn.\n\nThe flag of Glarus ultimately goes back to a banner of Saint Fridolin used in the Battle of Näfels in 1388, because the former banner of Glarus had been captured by the people of Rapperswil in a previous raid.\n\nAfter this, Glarus used the image of the saint in its banners. During the 15th and 16th century, these images varied considerably. Only by the beginning 17th century a standard design was established, showing the Saint as a pilgrim in silver on a red field.\nThe modern design shows the pilgrim in black, inspired by a banner shown in Glarus claimed as the original banner of 1388.\nThe current official design dates to 1959.\nFirst recorded in 1319.\n\nThe oldest seal of the city dates to 1225 and shows the Zähringer coat of arms.\nFribourg became independent from the Duchy of Savoy in 1477.\nThe adoption of the black and white banner dates to this period, first recorded in 1478.\nIn the 17th century, the city coat of arms is shown as quartered, with the city's black and white \nin the 1st and 4th quarters, and three towers in white on a blue field in the 2nd and 3rd quarters.\nThe cantonal colours in the 17th and 18th century, and into the early 19th century, are black and blue, while the coat of arms is shown as white and black. \nIn 1830, the canton of Friburg adopts black and white for the cantonal coat of arms and as cantonal colours.\n\n1443 (1394?)\n\nThe peculiar heraldic shape of the crozier (the Baslerstab or \"Basel staff\") dates to the 13th century, used by the Prince-Bishopric of Basel.\nThe flag of the city of Basel was introduced in the early 15th century, as the city gained greater independence from the ruling bishops of Basel\nThe flag and coat of arms of Basel-Landschaft was introduced in 1834, from the coat of arms of Liestal.\n\nThe flag is documented from 1218. The crown was added to the ram in 1512. The ram was originally rampant with only the rear left hoof on the ground, but in the 1940s this was changed to the salient position with both rear hooves on the ground.\n\nThe flag is based on that of the Abbot of St. Gallen, who was the feudal lord of Appenzell until 1403. The flag of the abbey showed a bear on a yellow field, and the independent territory Appenzell changed the field to white for its own flag.\nBefore its independence, Appenzell had a flag of a bear statant (on all fours) on a honeycombed field, attested from 1377.\n\nAppenzell split into its two half-cantons as a result of the Swiss Reformation, in 1597.\nThe letters V and R in the Ausserrhoden flag stand for \"Ussere Rhoden\" \"outer districts\" (V representing /u/).\nThe oldest representation of the letters is found on a flag, presumably of the 17th century and known to have been in use in 1743.\nOn this flag, the bear is facing away from the hoist, with the letters V and R on the hoist side, behind the bear's back. Above the V is the inscription \"SOLI\", corresponding to a lost \"DEO GLORIA\" on the reverse side. Other military flags with the V and R on either side of the bear are known from the late 18th century.\n\nThe coat of arms of the city of St. Gallen like the cantonal coat of arms of Appenzell since the 14th century has shown the bear taken from the flag of the abbot of St. Gall. But the canton of St. Gallen is unrelated to the historical territory of its eponymous capital, having been patched together from eight unrelated territories of other Cantons in 1798.\nThe cantonal arms and flag are an original design by David von Gonzenbach, created in 1803.\nIn the original design, the weapon contained in the fasces was a halberd, but this was changed to the axe in 1843. There were a number of other design changes during the 20th century; from the 1930s until 1951, a black Swiss cross was placed on the axe blade to avoid association with the fasces as used as a symbol of Italian fascism.\n\nThe flag of Graubünden was adopted in 1933.\nFrom 1815 to 1933, the canton had used various combinations of the three coats of arms of the historical Three Leagues. The modern design combines simplified versions of the historical coats of arms.\n\nAargau (Argovia) is the ancient name of the march between Alemannia and Burgundy, but it never was an independent canton historically. Since 1712, the territory of the modern canton had been divided between Zürich and Bern. The canton of Aargau was created as an administrative division of the Helvetic Republic, and its flag is an original design by Samuel Ringier-Seelmatter of Zofingen (1767–1826), dating to 1803.\nThe current official design, specifying the stars as five-pointed, dates to 1930.\n\nLike Aargau, Thurgau was historically a subject territory of the confederacy, and was created as a canton of the Helvetic Republic.\nThe flag design is an ad-hoc creation of 1803, based on the two lions in the coat of arms of the House of Kyburg which ruled Thurgau in the 13th century.\nThe green-and-white were regarded as \"revolutionary\" colours in 1803, also introduced in the coats of arms of St. Gallen and Vaud, but the placement of a yellow lion on white is a violation of heraldic principles, and also creates a visibility problem. There have been suggestions to correct this, including a 1938 suggestion to use a solid green field divided by a diagonal white line, but they were not successful.\n\nThe flag is an 1803 design, but its designer or intended symbolism have not been recorded.\nThe convention of displaying the flag \"per fess\" is apparently inspired by Lucerne.\n\nThe design dates to 1803, based on the flag used in the Vaudois insurrection against Bernese rule in the 1790s, which was green and inscribed with Liberté, Egalité in white lettering. From this, the white and green became the \"revolutionary\" colours of cantons newly created from former subject territories of the confederacy, also used in the flags of the cantons of St. Gallen and Thurgau, and a green flag was also briefly used by Aargau.\nThe lettering in the Vaudois flag was in black or in green during 1803–1819, the gold was introduced with the military flag as Vaud organised its army in 1819. As such, it violates the heraldic rule of tincture which states that gold (or yellow) may not be placed upon silver (or white).\n\nThe Bishop of Sion used a vertically divided red-and-white war flag from ca. 1220. The coat of arms of Valais originates in 1613, as the subject territories of the bishop were united into a republic, the stars representing the individual Dixains. There were six stars in 1613, augmented to seven in 1628. In the 1803 Act of Mediation, Napoleon separated the Valais from the restored Swiss Confederacy, and in 1810 he annexed it into the Department of Simplon. At this point the number of Dixains and the number of stars in the flag was increased to twelve. The thirteenth star was added as the Valais joined the restored Swiss Confederacy in 1815, with the creation of Conthey as the thirteenth Dixain.\n\nThe flag is unrelated to the historical flag of the town of Neuchâtel, which had been in use from 1350, and as cantonal flag from 1815 until 1848, and which remains part of the town's coat of arms.\nThe canton of Neuchâtel was admitted to the restored Swiss Confederacy in 1815, but with the peculiar reservation that it owed nominal fealty to the king of Prussia. This lingering monarchism led to a republican coup in 1848, under the flag that would later become the cantonal flag.\nThe conflict between monarchists by 1856 threatened to devolve into full civil war, but in 1857, Frederick William IV of Prussia renounced all claims to Neuchâtel, and the 1848 revolutionary banner was made the official cantonal flag.\nUse of the flag remained disputed, and during the 20th century there were three unsuccessful attempts to reintroduce the historical flag of 1350 by popular vote.\n\nThe flag of Geneva is the historical flag of the city of Geneva, showing the Imperial Eagle and a Key of St. Peter (symbolizing the status of Geneva as Reichsstadt and as episcopal seat, respectively), in use since the 15th century.\nThe flag of the medieval bishopric of Geneva showed two golden Keys of Peter in the red field of the imperial Blutbanner since 1293.\n\nThe full coat of arms of Geneva includes a crest in the form of half a sun inscribed with JHS (for Jesus Hominum Salvator), and a scroll below the shield with the motto Post Tenebras Lux.\n\nThe coat of arms of the city of Geneva was adopted as the cantonal coat of arms the accession of Geneva as a city-canton to the restored Swiss Confederacy in 1815.\n\nThe separatist movement which eventually led to the canton's creation emerged in the 1940s, and the flag is a design by Paul Boesch, dated to 1943. The crozier symbolizes the former Prince-Bishopric of Basel, the seven stripes represent the seven districts of the Bernese Jura.\nIt was officially recognized as a regional flag by Bern from the early 1950s.\nThe canton of Jura was created in 1979 after a referendum, but only three of the seven districts opted to join. The seven stripes were retained in the cantonal flag regardless, and there remains some irredentism calling for a restored unity of all seven districts.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50085295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50085295", "title": "Garissa–Nuno–Modogashe–Wajir Road", "text": "Garissa–Nuno–Modogashe–Wajir Road\n\nThe Garissa–Nuno–Modogashe–Wajir Road is a road in Kenya, connecting the towns of Garissa, Nuno, Modogashe and Wajir.\n\nThe road starts at Garissa, Garissa County, on the Nairobi–Thika–Garissa–Dadaab–Liboi Road. It travels north-eastwards for about to the settlement of Modikarey. From there, it makes a left turn and heads north to Modogashe, in Isiolo County, a distance of approximately . At Modogashe, it turns north-eastwards and goes for another to Wajir where it ends, a total road distance of .\n\nThis road, is an important trade corridor for traffic headed from Nairobi to Ethiopia via Moyale or Rhamu. Together with the proposed Garsen–Witu–Lamu Highway, is a component of the Lamu-Moyale Highway, part of LAPSSET.\n\nThe government of Kenya upgraded the first of this road, using locally sourced funds. The government then approached the oil-rich Arab countries for loans to upgrade the Nuno–Modogashe section at an estimated cost Sh13.4 billion (approx. US$134.5 million). In March 2013, government received loans and grants from (a) the Kuwait Fund (b) the OPEC Fund (c) the Saudi Fund (d) the Abu Dhabi Fund and the Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa, to fund the upgrade of the Nuno–Modogashe Road.\n\nThe construction work was contracted to Arab Contractors Limited of Egypt. Work was expected to start in 2015 and conclude in 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16676", "title": "Geography of Kiribati", "text": "Geography of Kiribati\n\nThis article describes the geography of the Republic of Kiribati. Kiribati consists of 32 atolls and one island scattered over all four hemispheres in an expanse of ocean equivalent in size to the continental United States. The islands lie roughly halfway between Hawaii and Australia in the Micronesian and Polynesian regions of the South Pacific. The three main island groupings are the Gilbert Islands, Phoenix Islands, and Line Islands. On 1 January 1995 Kiribati moved the International Date Line to include its easternmost islands and make it the same day throughout the country.\n\nKiribati includes Kiritimati (Christmas Atoll; in the Line Islands), the largest coral atoll (in terms of land area, not dimensions) in the world, and Banaba (Ocean Island), one of the three great phosphate rock islands in the Pacific.\n\nOceania, group of islands in the Pacific Ocean, straddling the equator, about one-half of the way from Hawaii to Australia; note – on 1 January 1995, Kiribati unilaterally moved the International Date Line from the middle of the country to include its easternmost islands and make it the same day throughout the country.\n\nThe Phoenix Islands Protected Area constitutes 11.34% of Kiribati’s Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) and with a size of it is the second largest marine protected area (MPA) in the Pacific Ocean.\n\nThe total land area mass total . It includes three island groups - Gilbert Islands, Line Islands, Phoenix Islands. Most of the land on these islands is less than two metres above sea level. Including the amount of water, the total water and land area is 2485 square miles. A 1989 United Nations report identified Kiribati as one of the countries that could completely disappear in the 21st century if steps are not taken to address global climate change.\n\nThe coastline of the islands total 1,143 km (710 mi) in length. Kiribati can claim a sea territory of 12 nautical miles (22 km, 14 mi) with an Exclusive Economic Zone of 22 nm (370 km, 230 mi). The islands are relatively flat. The highest point is 265 feet above sea level.\n\nDue to its location, Kiribati exhibits a maritime climate. Temperatures range between 26-32 °C year-round, with the water temperature sitting on a comfortable year-round 28-29 °C. The dry season is from December to March while the wet season last from February to May and from September to November. In the driest years, the islands have received 150mm of rainfall while its wettest years saw upwards of 4000mm.\n\nThe amount of arable land is at 2.5%. Crop usage stands at about 40% of the available land. A few trees exist and occupy 10% of the land. About 50% of the land is used for housing and commercial use.\n\nMuch of the natural resources have been exhausted before its 1979 independence. On the island of Banaba, the British mined phosphorus, which really was guano, until exhaustion of supply, an event that was before independence.\n\nCyclones can occur any time, but usually November to March; occasional tornadoes; low level of some of the islands make them very sensitive to changes in sea level.The Climate Change in the Pacific Report (2011) describes Kiribati as having a low risk of cyclones; however in March 2015 Kiribati experienced flooding and destruction of seawalls and coastal infrastructure as the result of Cyclone Pam, a Category 5 cyclone that devastated Vanuatu.\n\nThe island of Banaba has suffered greatly from the aftereffects of the massive phosphorus mining. Most of the population were forced to evacuate to the island country of Fiji due to its effects. In addition, the atoll near the island of Tarawa is vulnerable to the effects of solid waste disposal. A report by the United Nations say the wildlife from the region are endangered. The islands are very sensitive to the damaging effects.\n\nThe country signed the Convention on Diversity on 6 August 1994.\n\nIt also signed conventions on the Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection.\n\nThis is a list of the extreme points of Kiribati, the points that are farther north, south, east or west than any other location.\n\n"}
{"id": "58876005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58876005", "title": "Geology of Laos", "text": "Geology of Laos\n\nThe geology of Laos includes poorly defined oldest rocks. Marine conditions persisted for much of the Paleozoic and parts of the Mesozoic, followed by periods of uplift and erosion. The country has extensive salt, gypsum and potash, but very little hydrocarbons and limited base metals. <ref></ref >\n\nThe Precambrian and Paleozoic are poorly attested in the Laotian rock record. Some areas in the northwest, northeast and southeast are believed to have high-grade metamorphic rocks from the Proterozoic. No Cambrian rocks have been verified, although some may be represented by metasedimentary rocks underlying Ordovician strata. Shale with graptolite fossils in the northeast belong to the Early Ordovician. Marines sedimentation took place during the Ordovician, Silurian and Devonian. Continuous sedimentation went on in the east into the Carboniferous, but elsewhere a marine regression brought erosion. The Permian and Carboniferous brought renewed marine deposition of sandstone, shale and limestone as well as some terrestrial deposits like coal found near Vietiane and Saravane. The limestone forms a prominent karst topography in the north and east. \n\nMarine sedimentation only continued in a few sedimentary basins during the Triassic at the start of the Mesozoic, such as the Sam Neua area. Volcanic rocks that erupted primarily in the Permian, but into the Triassic are situated in northern Laos in the Pak Lay-Luang Prabang area and northwest to the border with Myanmar. They correlate with similar rocks in Thailand inferred to be the result of subduction-related volcanism. Dacite and rhyolite are common in the Sam Neua area while rhyolite and tuff covers much of the Sekong Valley and along the Cambodian border in the south.\nAlmost all Jurassic and Cretaceous rocks are terrestrial, except for marine rocks in the southern Sekong Valley from the Early Jurassic. A mountainous terrane formed due to Triassic uplift, which brought intense erosion. By the Middle Cretaceous, the land surface was heavily worn down leaving silt, clay and mud interspersed with evaporites, which underlie the plains around Vietiane and east of Savannakhet. \n\nPaleogene deposits from the Cenozoic are absent in Laos, but Neogene freshwater sediments settled in small valleys between mountain ranges, made up of shale, sandstone, marl and lignite. Because of a lack of coarse sediments which typically erode off of steep neighboring mountains, geologists have interpreted these basins as the down-dropped remnants of older, wider basins. Highlands uplifted during the Pliocene and Pleistocene and immediately experienced intense erosion. The Plain of Jars has extensive gravel and silt terraces from the Quaternary, including loess and volcanic ash. The Mekong River which transported the eroded material may have followed a different course because sediments are primarily shallow and Holocene in age beneath the present course of the river. Thick basalt lavas extruded onto Mesozoic sandstone at the Bolovens Plateau east of Pakse during the Pleistocene. \n\nThe Truong Son and Luang Prabang structures converge in northern Laos, bordered by northwest trending fault-bounded structures such as Phu Hoat Massif. The Song Ma Anticlinorium near Vietnam exposes Proterozoic basement rock at the surface. The Yunnan-Malay fold belt originated from closure of two sedimentary basins and is a prominent feature. Only a few major intrusions are known such as Early Triassic granodiorite near Pak Lay and gabbro near Sayaboury. \n\nLaos has small amounts of tin, gypsum, limestone and coal and previously has alluvial sapphire, copper and salt mining. The country has extensive salt and gypsum deposits as well as potash near Vientiane, possible bauxite on the Bolovens Plateau and some iron deposits. Laterite deposits contain some cassiterite. \n"}
{"id": "50516563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50516563", "title": "Harrestrup Å", "text": "Harrestrup Å\n\nHarrestrup Å is an approximately 20 km long stream through the western suburbs of Copenhagen, Denmark. It rises at Harrestrup Mose in Vestskoven woodland on the border between Albertslund and Ballerup and flows through Damhus Lake and several parks on its way to the Øresund at Kalvebod Beach in Valby Park.\n\nThe stream rises at Mønterne/Herstedhøje just south of Harrestrup Mose and this first, short section is called Rogrøften. Harrestrup Mose is also fed by Ballerup-Skovlunde Skolerende from the north and Bymoserenden from the south.\n\nHarrestrup Å then flows east and is joined by Sømose Å from the north before passing under the Vestvolden on its way to the Kagsmose bog which is also fed by Kagsmose Å from the north.\n\nFrom Kagsmosen, Harrestrup Å continues south through Krogebjergparken and Damhuengen to the Damhus Lake.\n\nThe section from Damhus Lake to the sea is also called Damhusåen. It runs through first the Vigerslev Park and then the Valby Park and follows the boundary between Copenhagen and Hvidovre municipalities.\n\nIn 2013, it was decided to invest DKK 450 mio. in restoring the natural environment in the stream. The project is a collaboration between nine municipalities and the HOFOR utility company.\n\n"}
{"id": "23887174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23887174", "title": "Historical regions of Armenia", "text": "Historical regions of Armenia\n\nHistorical Armenia () had 15 provinces. The provinces were called \"ashkharh\" (), which means \"world\" in Armenian.\n\n"}
{"id": "48312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48312", "title": "Iguazu Falls", "text": "Iguazu Falls\n\nIguazú Falls or Iguaçu Falls ( ; ; ) are waterfalls of the Iguazu River on the border of the Argentine province of Misiones and the Brazilian state of Paraná. Together, they make up the largest waterfall system in the world. The falls divide the river into the upper and lower Iguazu. The Iguazu River rises near the heart of the city of Curitiba. For most of its course, the river flows through Brazil; however, most of the falls are on the Argentine side. Below its confluence with the San Antonio River, the Iguazu River forms the boundary between Argentina and Brazil.\n\nThe name \"Iguazú\" comes from the Guarani or Tupi words \"y\" , meaning \"water\", and \"\"ûasú\" \", meaning \"big\". Legend has it that a deity planned to marry a beautiful woman named Naipí, who fled with her mortal lover Tarobá in a canoe. In a rage, the deity sliced the river, creating the waterfalls and condemning the lovers to an eternal fall. The first European to record the existence of the falls was the Spanish Conquistador Álvar Núñez Cabeza de Vaca in 1541.\n\nThe staircase character of the falls consists of a two-step waterfall formed by three layers of basalt. The steps are 35 and 40 m in height. The columnar basalt rock sequences are part of the 1000 m thick Serra Geral Formation within the Paleozoic-Mesozoic Paraná Basin. The tops of these sequences are characterized by 8-10 m of highly resistant vesicular basalt and the contact between these layers controls the shape of the falls. Headwater erosion rates are estimated at 1.4-2.1 cm/year. \n\nThe Iguazu Falls are located where the Iguazu River tumbles over the edge of the Paraná Plateau, upriver from the Iguazu's confluence with the Paraná River. Numerous islands along the edge divide the falls into many separate waterfalls and cataracts, varying between high. The number of these smaller waterfalls fluctuates from 150 to 300, depending on the water level. About half of the river's flow falls into a long and narrow chasm called the Devil's Throat ( in Spanish or in Portuguese). \n\nThe Devil's Throat canyon is 80-90 wide and 70-80 m deep. Left of this canyon, another part of the river forms 160-200 individual falls, which merge into a single front during flood stage. The largest falls are named San Martín, Adam and Eva, Penoni, and Bergano.\n\nAbout of the length does not have water flowing over it. The water of the lower Iguazu collects in a canyon that drains into the Paraná River, a short distance downstream from the Itaipu Dam. The junction of the water flows marks the border between Brazil, Argentina, and Paraguay. Some points in the cities of Foz do Iguaçu, Brazil, Puerto Iguazú, Argentina, and Ciudad del Este, Paraguay, have access to the Iguazu River, where the borders of all three nations may be seen, a popular tourist attraction for visitors to the three cities.\n\nThe Iguazu Falls are arranged in a way that resembles a reversed letter \"J\". The Argentina–Brazil border runs through the Devil's Throat. On the right bank is the Brazilian territory, which is home to more than 95% of the Iguazu River basin but has just over 20% of the jumps of these falls, and the left side jumps are Argentine, which makes up almost 80% of the falls.\n\nTwo international airports are close to Iguazú Falls: the Argentine Cataratas del Iguazú International Airport (IGR) and the Brazilian Foz do Iguaçu International Airport (IGU). Bus and taxi services are available from and to the Airport-Falls. Aerolíneas Argentinas and LATAM Argentina have direct flights from Buenos Aires to Iguazu International Airport Krause. Azul, GOL, and LATAM Brasil offer services from main Brazilian cities to Foz do Iguaçu.\n\nThe falls may be reached from two main towns, with one on either side of the falls: Foz do Iguaçu in Brazil and Puerto Iguazú in Argentina, as well as from Ciudad del Este, Paraguay, on the other side of the Paraná River from Foz do Iguaçu. The falls are shared by the Iguazú National Park (Argentina) and Iguaçu National Park (Brazil). The two parks were designated UNESCO World Heritage Sites in 1984 and 1987, respectively.\n\nThe first proposal for a Brazilian national park aimed at providing a pristine environment to \"future generations\", just as \"it had been created by God\" and endowed with \"all possible preservation, from the beautiful to the sublime, from the picturesque to the awesome\" and \"an unmatched flora\" located in the \"magnificent Iguaçu waterfalls\". These were the words used by André Rebouças, an engineer, in his book \"Provinces of Paraná, Railways to Mato Grosso and Bolivia\", which started up the campaign aimed at preserving the Iguaçu Falls in 1876. At this time, Yellowstone National Park in the U.S., the first national park in the world, was four years old.\n\nOn the Brazilian side, a walkway along the canyon has an extension to the lower base of Devil's Throat. Helicopter rides offering aerial views of the falls have been available from Brazil, but Argentina has prohibited such helicopter tours because of the adverse environmental impact on the flora and fauna of the falls. From Foz do Iguaçu airport, the park may be reached by taking a taxi or bus to the entrance of the park. Their park has an entrance fee on both sides. Once inside, free and frequent buses are provided to various points within the park. The town of Foz do Iguaçu is about away, and the airport is between the park and the town.\nThe Argentine access, across the forest, is by a Rainforest Ecological Train very similar to the one in Disney's Animal Kingdom. The train brings visitors to the entrance of Devil's Throat, as well as the upper and lower trails. The \"Paseo Garganta del Diablo\" is a trail that brings visitors directly over the falls of Devil's Throat, the highest and deepest of the falls. Other walkways allow access to the elongated stretch of falls across the forest on the Argentine side and to the boats that connect to San Martin Island. Also on the Argentine side, inflatable boat services take visitors very close to the falls.\n\nThe Brazilian transportation system aims at allowing the increase in the number of visitors, while reducing the adverse environmental impact, through an increase in the average number of passengers per vehicle inside the park. The new transportation system has 72-passenger capacity and panoramic-view, double-deck buses. The upper deck is open, which enables visitors a broad view of the flora and fauna during the trip to the falls. The bus combustion systems are in compliance with the CONAMA (phase VII) and EURO (phase V) emissions and noise requirements. The reduction in the number of vehicles, of noise levels, and speed, is enabling tourists to observe increasing numbers of wild animals along the route. Each bus has an exclusive paint scheme, representing some of the most common wild animals found in the Iguaçú National Park, including the spotted jaguars, butterflies, raccoons, prego monkeys, coral snakes, toucans, parrots, and yellow-breasted caimans.\n\nUpon seeing Iguazu, the United States First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt reportedly exclaimed, \"Poor Niagara!\" (which, at 50 m or 165 feet, are a third shorter). Often, Iguazu also is compared with Victoria Falls in Southern Africa, which separates Zambia and Zimbabwe. Iguazu is wider, but because it is split into roughly 275 distinct falls and large islands, Victoria has the largest curtain of water in the world, at more than wide and over in height (in low flow, Victoria is split into five by islands; in high flow it may be uninterrupted). The only wider falls are extremely large rapid-like falls, such as the Boyoma Falls (Stanley Falls).\n\nWith the flooding of the Guaíra Falls in 1982, Iguazu currently has the sixth-greatest average annual flow of any waterfall in the world, following number five Niagara, with an average rate of . Its maximum recorded flow was in 9 June 2014. By comparison, the average flow of Niagara Falls is , with a maximum recorded flow of . The average flow at Victoria Falls is , with a maximum recorded flow of .\n\nThe Iguazu Falls experience a humid subtropical climate (\"Cfa\", according to the Köppen climate classification) with abundant precipitation and high temperatures year-round. During the summer of 2006, a severe drought caused the Iguazu River to become diminished, reducing the amount of water flowing over the falls to until early December. This was unusual, as dry periods normally last only a few weeks.\n\nIguazu Falls have been featured in several TV shows and movies, including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26726634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26726634", "title": "Importance of religion by country", "text": "Importance of religion by country\n\nThis page charts a list of countries by importance of religion.\n\nThe table below is based upon global Gallup Poll in 2009 research which asked \"Is religion important in your daily life?\". Percentages for \"yes\" and \"no\" answers are listed below; they often do not add up to 100% because some answered \"don't know\" or did not answer.\n\n\nGeneral:\n"}
{"id": "6947013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6947013", "title": "In-Gall", "text": "In-Gall\n\nIn-Gall (var. In Gall, I-n-Gall, In-Gal, Ingal, Ingall) is a town in the Agadez Region, Tchirozerine Department of northeast Niger, with a year-round population of less than 500. Known for its oasis and salt flats, In-Gall is the gathering point for the Cure Salee festival of Tuareg and Wodaabe pastoralists to celebrate the end of the rainy season each September. During the festival, InGall's population grows to several thousand nomads, officials, and tourists. As of 2011, the commune had a total population of 47,170 people.\n\nInGall had been a stop on the main roads between the capital of Niger, Niamey (600 km to the southwest), and the mining town of Arlit (200 km to the northeast, 150 km from the Algerian border) or the provincial capital Agadez (100 km to the east). In the 1970s, the main road was repaved to transport uranium from the French-owned mines in Arlit, but the new road bypassed InGall, ending its use as a waystation. Since then, its population has dropped from almost 5,000 to less than 500.\n\nDuring the Tuareg insurgency of the 1990s, InGall was a prime fortification of the Niger armed forces, and when peace was concluded in 2000 the old fort was reportedly abandoned.\n\"InGall, an oasis town in a semi-desert zone that forms the gateway to the Sahara. InGall is a conglomeration of mud houses, whose gardens, in contrast to the barren landscape in which the town is set, are filled with fruit trees and vegetable patches.\"\n\nThe history, archaeology, and culture of the In-Gall area has been extensively studied, most notably by the French anthropologist and archaeologist couple, Suzanne and Edmond Bernus.\n\nIn-Gall is not only a prominent Tuareg seasonal centre, to which certain clans return each year, but it has a history as a stop in the Trans-Saharan trade, was a western outpost of the Songhay Empire in the 16th century, was an important centre of the Air Sultanate thereafter, and became a French colonial fort in an often hostile region in the early 20th century.\n\nArchaeological evidence shows the area as a centre of prehistoric populations dating back some eight thousand year to when it sat in the midst of a now dry Azawagh river valley, fed by the Aïr Massif and flowing south to the Niger River. Of particular note have been thousands of pre-common era stone burial mounds which suggest a common culture in the area. Archeologists have also found in the In-Gall region many of the earliest mosques in Niger, dating back to early Berber occupations before 1000CE.\nIn-Gall is intimately linked with the nearby salt industry at Teguidda-n-Tessoumt, around 15 km to the north. Teguidda, on the site of an ancient lake bed, floods as water washes down from the Aïr Massif to the east each year, producing natural salt ponds. The population of In-Gall maintain and harvest from evaporation ponds here, sending labourers from the local clans to work the salt and transport it back to In-Gall at the end of the season. In-Gall is near enough that, unlike the oasis town of Fachi where plots are owned by Agadez based Tuareg clans and worked by a permanent population, the workers at Teguidda return to In-Gall for the remainder of the year. Teguidda also lacks a stable oasis, which provides In-Gall with market gardens and date palm farming on a year-round basis. Prior to its decline in the 20th century—because of the smaller scale of the In-Gall salt markets as well as its easy access by road—In-Gall was once a destination of the Azalai salt caravans in which Tuareg merchants transported salt from the markets here across the Sahel for agricultural and medicinal uses.\n\nIn 2004, a Canadian corporation was granted a government license to mine for uranium in the area. Northwestern Mineral Ventures was awarded the Irhazer and Ingall concessions, each in size. Mines will reportedly be \"open pit\" strip mines. More than 100 uranium exploration licenses have been granted in the Azawagh area since 2004 to foreign firms from China (over 40%), Canada, and India Since 2007, Chinese mining consortium, whose license covers an area north of In Gall, has carried out infrastructural work for new uranium mine at Azelik, some 85 km north of in Gall, which includes extending roads from in Gall to the site. Nigerien human rights, environmental and Tuareg groups have argued that mining activities in this region are a threat to scarce water resources, upon which pastoralists depend. The short rainy season in the Azawagh area north and west of in Gall makes the region the northern destination for a cattle and camel herding transhumance cycle which sees communities travel as far south as Burkina Faso during the dry months.\n\nIn-Gall is also famous to outsiders for its palaeontological digs, most notably the Jobaria tiguidensis, and the remains of petrified forests dating back 135 million years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39284545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39284545", "title": "Johann Hübner", "text": "Johann Hübner\n\nJohann Hübner (17 March 1668 – 21 May 1731) was a German geographer and scholar, who taught by the question and answer method.\n\nJohann Hübner attended school in Zittau before studying theology, poetry, rhetoric, geography and history at the University of Leipzig. In 1694 he became rector of the Gymnasium in Merseburg.\n\nWith his \"Questions and Answers to Geography\" book, published in 1693, the subject of geography began to be taught in schools.\n\nIn 1704 he wrote the preface to the \"Reales Staats-, Zaitungs- und Conversations-Lexikon\" compiled by Philipp Balthasar Sinold von Schütz.\n\nIn 1711 he became rector of the Gelehrtenschule des Johanneums in Hamburg.\n\nHis children's Bible \"Biblische Historien\" (1714) was designed for use in schools. It went through 270 editions and was translated into 15 European languages, making it \"the most popular and longest selling Bible of its type\". For clarification, he adapted biblical stories to more recent stories to teach values. One modern historian, noting his credulity, has described him as \"not very talented, but very widely read\".\n\n\nLiteratur\n\n"}
{"id": "13045828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13045828", "title": "Kežovica", "text": "Kežovica\n\nThe Kežovica mineral spa () is situated near the southern Štip suburb of Novo Selo in the Republic of Macedonia, just after the canyon that the river Bregalnica forms when exiting the city. The water temperature is at the source and is slightly radioactive, which is used for medicinal purposes. There is a thermal bath built in the vicinity of the main spring, as well as a hospital unit, specializing in physiotherapy performed in pools filled with water from the mineral springs.\n\nThere is a secondary mineral hot spring in the suburb of Novo Selo itself called L'dzhite, which is regularly used by the local residents. This spring is also considered to be part of the Kežovica system. The area in east-central Republic of Macedonia between the cities of Štip and Kratovo is a site of many dormant and extinguished volcanoes, and the greater area has high seismic risk.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18540261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18540261", "title": "Knowledge Oasis Muscat", "text": "Knowledge Oasis Muscat\n\nKnowledge Oasis Muscat (KOM) is a 20,000 square meter technology park located near Muscat International Airport, Oman. KOM neighbours Rusayl Industrial Estate - the Sultanate's largest industrial park - and SQU. For start-up companies that require a total support package, KOM created The Knowledge Mine (TKM) a business incubator program that offers tenants a combination of subsidized offices and utilities in addition to a variety of business support program services. KOM is also home to the Middle East College and the Waljat Colleges of Applied Sciences. Currently, the KOM campus boasts an undergraduate population of approximately 3,000 students.\n\nKOM was built to support technology-focussed startup enterprises as well as corporate entities such as Ericsson, Oracle Corporation, Hewlett Packard, Motorola, Microsoft, Oman TradaNet llc, NCR, Wipro Gulf LLC and Huawei. It also host Oman's ITA which is the body that is responsible of managing the e-governance project in Oman.\n\nOfficial website\n"}
{"id": "924082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=924082", "title": "Komárom County", "text": "Komárom County\n\nKomárom county (in Latin: \"comitatus Comaromiensis\", in Hungarian: \"Komárom (vár)megye\", in Slovak: \"Komárňanský komitát / Komárňanská stolica / Komárňanská župa\", in German: \"Komorner Gespanschaft / Komitat Komorn\") was an administrative county (comitatus) of the Kingdom of Hungary that lay in the present-day southern Slovakia (1/2) and north-western Hungary (1/2) on both sides of the Danube river.\n\nKomárom County shared borders with the counties of , , , , , , and . The rivers Danube Vág and Nyitra ran through the county. It also covered the eastern part of the island between the Danube and the Little Danube (Slovak translates as English: \"Rye Island\", Hungarian: ). Around 1910 its area was .\n\nThe capital of the county was the Komárom Castle and later the town of Komárom (the town was divided into Komárom-Komárno).\n\nThe Komárom comitatus arose in the 11th century as one of the first comitatus' of the Kingdom of Hungary. It was situated within a radius of about 20 km around Komárom. \n\nIn 1920 the Treaty of Trianon assigned the part of Komárom county north of the Danube to Czechoslovakia (Komárno region). The southern part stayed in Hungary and merged with the southern part of Esztergom county to form Komárom-Esztergom county. \n\nIn 1938, the Czechoslovak part became part of Hungary by the First Vienna Award. Komárom county was recreated, which included, besides the territory of pre-1920 Komárom County, most of the Rye Island. After World War II, the pre-war situation was reestablished, except that the name of the Hungarian part became Komárom County again. This county was renamed to Komárom-Esztergom County in 1992. The part of the former county north of the river Danube is now in Slovakia, is part of the Nitra region and is largely identical with the Komárno district.\n\nIn 1900, the county had a population of 180,024 people and was composed of the following linguistic communities:\n\nTotal:\n\n\nAccording to the census of 1900, the county was composed of the following religious communities:\n\nTotal:\n\n\nIn the early 20th century, the subdivisions of Komárom county were: \n\nKomárno, Zemianska Olča, Dvory nad Žitavou and Hurbanovo are now in Slovakia.\n"}
{"id": "54080370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54080370", "title": "Kustošak", "text": "Kustošak\n\nKustošak is a stream passing through the neighbourhoods of Kustošija and Trešnjevka in Zagreb, Croatia. It is located on the western part of Medvednica Mountain's southern slope. The stream's upper basin is not easily accessible due to suburban development, but public walkways have been built along its lower basin. Before the urbanisation of Trešnjevka, Kustošak used to flow directly into Sava River, but due to the river's meandering only a sharp remains of the stream's former mouth. Further downstream, Kustošak discharges into the Vrapčak stream. Parts of the stream were covered in the course of the city's expansion, and several retention basins have been built.\n\nIn May 2013 and March 2014, the stream was polluted by a fluorescent green liquid, which caused a dying of frogs. The authorities determined that the cause of the 2013 discoloration was deliberate waste dumping. The stream is listed as having category II water quality. It is also classified as a water flow with a protective corridor.\n\n"}
{"id": "24042359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24042359", "title": "Lieutenant Governor of the Isle of Man", "text": "Lieutenant Governor of the Isle of Man\n\nThe Lieutenant Governor of the Isle of Man ( or \"Lhiass-chiannoort Vannin\") is the British sovereign's official personal representative in the Isle of Man. He has the power to grant royal assent and is styled \"His Excellency\". \n\nIn recent times the governor has been either a retired diplomat or a senior military officer. No Manx-born person has ever been appointed lieutenant governor, although Manx-born First Deemsters (\"ex officio\" deputy governors) have taken on the role temporarily during an interregnum between governors, and during periods when the lieutenant governor is off-island.\n\nThe official residence of the governor is Government House, Governor's Road, Onchan.\n\nIn the past, the lieutenant governor wielded judicial, fiscal and executive power on the island, and around 1900 had more power than any other governor in the British Empire. However, he lost his role as Head of the Judiciary in 1921, as Head of Government in 1961, as President of the Legislative Council in 1980 and finally as President of Tynwald in 1990. Today the role of lieutenant governor is essentially ceremonial, although certain powers under Isle of Man legislation do still fall to the governor or governor-in-council (a decision on the advice, and with the approval of, the Council of Ministers).\n\nIn October 2005 Tynwald sought to change the title of the lieutenant governor to Crown Commissioner. This proposal was sent to the British Department of Constitutional Affairs for submission to the Lord of Mann Elizabeth II for approval. However, in April 2006, after much public disapproval, Tynwald rejected their own proposal and withdrew their request for Royal Assent. Thus the lieutenant governor has remained as previously titled.\n\nBefore 2010 the lieutenant governor was appointed by the Crown on the advice of a panel led by the Government of the United Kingdom. In July 2010 the Government of the Isle of Man announced that the next lieutenant governor would be appointed on advice of an entirely local panel, comprising the Chief Minister, President of Tynwald and the First Deemster. The new procedure was used for the first time a few months later to choose Sir Paul Haddacks' successor.\n\nOn 16 November 2010 the Isle of Man Government announced the appointment by the Crown of former UK diplomat Adam Wood as the next lieutenant governor of the Isle of Man. His term was scheduled to start on 4 April 2011; he was officially sworn into office on 7 April 2011 at Castle Rushen in Castletown.\n\nA question was often posed as to what was the proper title of the chief executive of the island, and whether there were any words in the Commissions of the lieutenant governors which suspended their functions during the presence in the island of the Lord of Mann or a governor of the Isle of Man. \n\nSuch a question was considered in 1877 by the eminent Manx advocate Sir James Gell, who referred to a search he undertook at the Rolls Office, the results of which are included in a list of 83 appointments of governors between 1595 and 1863. Not all appointments during that period are listed in this article as it was difficult to trace appointments prior to 1639, about which time the practice began of keeping a distinct book for the enrolment of commissions. In addition, after that date certain commissions were also omitted to be enrolled. For instance no record of the appointment of John Murray, 4th Duke of Atholl as governor in 1793 could be traced.\n\nHistorically the designations governor, lieutenant (that is the King's/Queen's or Lord of Mann's lieutenant) and captain were synonymous. Only one reference to deputy lieutenant is made, that of Governor Horton's appointment in 1725.\n\nIn some commissions expressions designating the office, such as governor; captain general and commander-in-chief; chief governor and commander-in-chief; chief governor; and governor-in-chief and captain general; may well imply the conferring of powers, civil and military, though the designation given may possibly affect the rank of the person appointed, as between himself and others holding similar or analogous appointments.\n\nIf the sovereign intended not to bestow the full powers of a governor on a specific person, then the limitations had to be expressed on the face of the commission. However no record of such an amendment exists, and although any legal power exercised could not be questioned as to its legality by any subject, a governor as between himself and the Crown, would be controlled as to the exercise of his powers by his instructions and would therefore be accountable for any injudicious use of them.\n\nA lieutenant governor or deputy governor having a commission with powers no express limitation to their powers, could perform all the functions of a governor while his powers were in force.\n\nSir James Gell twice held the office of Governor of the Isle of Man: first during the illness of Lord Henniker, Sir James being appointed deputy and presiding at Tynwald; and second during the interregnum between the death of Lord Henniker and the appointment of Lord Raglan. \n\nWhilst Sir James was appointed deputy governor on the first occasion, he was appointed acting governor in the second instance, an important distinction. The Dukes of Atholl were the last supreme governors of the Isle of Man, until the Isle of Man Purchase Act 1765, also known as the Act of Revestment. All governors since then had been lieutenant governors, but Sir James' appointment as acting governor was on a par with the position of the Duke of Atholl, and he had the right to appoint a lieutenant governor had he so wished. So his office as acting governor carried with it greater authority than that of lieutenant governor; this fact Sir James himself pointed out to the Home Office.\n\nThe term \"lieutenant govern\"or was not used before the Act of Revestment in 1765; the term \"deputy governor\" was used instead. The appointments of Peter Legh (1596), Ratcliffe Gerrard (1639), Roger Nowell (1660), William Sacheverell (1692), Thomas Huddlestone (1700) and Alexander Horne (1713) as deputy governors can therefore be seen as temporary appointments during a vacancy.\n\nLieutenant governors and deputy governors could exercise the powers of a governor of the Isle of Man in one respect: they could appoint deputies. In the cases of Charles Stanley (1702) and Bishop Isaac Barrow (1774) this prerogative was specifically granted; however over time it became common custom amongst successive lieutenant governors. This would allow governors to appoint deputies for specific periods or purposes, such as during the governor's absence on specified occasions, or during his illness when not absent (\"the list below illustrates this and shows the great number of appointments made by governors of deputies during their absence\"). For instance the various appointments of Deemsters McYlrea and Taubman can be seen as examples of appointments for executing judicial functions.\n\nBefore the Act of Revestment, deputies were expressly appointed to act during absence, except in one case: that of Bishop Isaac Barrow in 1664. In this case, the deputy governor, Roger Nowell, acted whilst Governor Barrow was on the island, sometimes along with him and sometimes solely. This was an exceptional case; it was probably not intended that the Bishop have more to do with temporal affairs than was absolutely necessary. \n\nSince Revestment, the appointments of Lieutenant Governors Henry Hope (1773), Richard Dawson (1775 and 1777), Alexander Shaw (1790), Lord Henry Murray (1804) and Cornelius Smelt (1805) were also expressly held during the absence of the governors.\nThe appointments of Lieutenant Governors John Ready (1832), Charles Hope (1845) and Francis Pigott Stainsby Conant (1860), say nothing as to the presence of a governor-in-chief, and these three persons were therefore appointed to be \"merely\" lieutenant governors. It may be the case with the appointment of Colonel Ready that it was not intended for him to take the office of governor-in-chief, and therefore no allusion was made in the commissions of the lieutenant governors to their office. However, it appears that without any words expressly suspending the functions of a lieutenant governor, they would as a matter of course be suspended.\n\n"}
{"id": "22197952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22197952", "title": "List of Azerbaijani flags", "text": "List of Azerbaijani flags\n\nThis is a list of flags used in Azerbaijan.\n"}
{"id": "2865984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2865984", "title": "List of airports by ICAO code: E", "text": "List of airports by ICAO code: E\n\nFormat of entries is:\n\nAll Belgian airports from Aeronautical Information Publication at Belgocontrol except where noted.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Other categories: , , , \"\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAll airports in Luxembourg from Aeronautical Information Publication at Belgocontrol.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "601239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=601239", "title": "List of archbishops of Athens", "text": "List of archbishops of Athens\n\nThis is a list of Bishops, Metropolitans, and Archbishops of Athens. The Church of Athens was created by Paul the Apostle during his second missionary journey, when he preached at the Areopagus, probably in 51 AD. According to the Acts of the Apostles (17:16–34), after the sermon, a number of people became followers of Paul, thus forming the kernel of the Church in Athens. The see of Athens has been unilaterally declared autocephalous on 4 August 1833 (officially recognized by the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople on 11 July 1850), and was elevated to an archbishopric on 31 December 1923. As the head of the Church of Greece, the holder is styled Archbishop of Athens and All Greece (Αρχιεπίσκοπος Αθηνών και πάσης Ελλάδος).\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "36346926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36346926", "title": "List of hoards in the Channel Islands", "text": "List of hoards in the Channel Islands\n\nThe list of hoards in the Channel Islands comprises significant archaeological hoards of coins, jewellery, precious and scrap metal objects and other valuable items discovered in the Channel Islands (Jersey, Guernsey, Alderney, Sark, Herm and associated smaller islands). It includes both hoards that were buried with the intention of retrieval at a later date (personal hoards, founder's hoards, merchant's hoards, and hoards of loot), and also hoards of votive offerings which were not intended to be recovered at a later date, but excludes grave goods and single items found in isolation. The list is subdivided into sections according to archaeological and historical periods.\n\nAt least fifteen hoards have been found in the Channel Islands since the early 18th century, most of them in Jersey, and only one each in Guernsey, Alderney and Sark. Of the known hoards, about a third date to the Bronze Age and are mostly founder's hoards comprising broken tools, weapons and other scrap metal buried with the intention of recovery at a later date for use in casting new bronze items. Another third are hoards of Iron Age Celtic coins, mostly coins called staters cast in debased silver (billon alloy), the majority deriving from Armorica (modern Brittany and Normandy in France), but some deriving from Southern Britain. The remaining hoards comprise Roman coins, some of which may have been buried by Armorican Celts fleeing from Roman armies during the campaigns of Julius Caesar in the mid 1st century B.C. Although the contents of most Iron Age and Roman hoards found in the Channel Islands originated from nearby France or Britain, one hoard that was discovered in Guernsey during the late 19th century comprised Roman coins minted in Alexandria in Egypt during the late 3rd century A.D.\n\nThe table below list hoards that are associated with the Bronze Age, approximately 1300 BC to 700 BC.\n\nThe table below list hoards that are associated with the Iron Age, approximately 8th century BC to the 1st century AD.\n\nThe table below list hoards of Roman artefacts and Roman coins.\n\n"}
{"id": "42405017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42405017", "title": "List of hotels in Chennai", "text": "List of hotels in Chennai\n\nThis article lists the notable hotels in Chennai, India.\n"}
{"id": "51472517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51472517", "title": "List of lighthouses in Saba", "text": "List of lighthouses in Saba\n\nThis is a list of lighthouses in Saba.\n\n"}
{"id": "3098184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3098184", "title": "List of songs about Seattle", "text": "List of songs about Seattle\n\nThis is a list of songs about Seattle.\n"}
{"id": "53716203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53716203", "title": "List of universities in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines", "text": "List of universities in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines\n\nThis is a list of universities in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39653973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39653973", "title": "List of years in Bahrain", "text": "List of years in Bahrain\n\nThis is a list of years in Bahrain. See also the timeline of Bahraini history. For only articles about years in Bahrain that have been written, see .\n\n"}
{"id": "25613844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25613844", "title": "Lopo Homem", "text": "Lopo Homem\n\nLopo Homem (16th century) was a Portuguese cartographer and cosmographer.\n\nIn 1517, King Manuel I of Portugal handed Lopo Homem a charter entitling him the privilege of certifying and amending all compass needles in vessels. This charter was revalidated in 1524 by King John III of Portugal. Anytime another person performed these tasks, they should have paid to the cartographer twenty \"cruzados\". Two years later Lopo Homem participated in the making of the atlas known as \"Lopo Homem-Reineis Atlas\" or \"Miller Atlas\" with cartographer Pedro Reinel and his son, Jorge Reinel. They were considered the best cartographers of their time, with Emperor Charles V wanting them to work for him.\n\nIn 1524, he participated on the Portuguese side in the Conferences of Badajoz-Elvas, established by the Crowns of Portugal and Spain following the so-called \"Moluccas issue\". A letter written by Lopo Homem alluding to the board quarrels over the claims of the two kings on exploration rights remains in Torre do Tombo. In 1531, Lopo Homem was awarded a pension of 20,000 reais for life, increased to 5,000 in 1532. He was the father of Diogo Homem, also a cartographer.\n\nHis earliest known work is a world map, discovered in London in 1930. In Florence there is another world map dated 1554, and Lisbon's National Library has also a navigation chart (which before 1910 was in the Palácio das Necessidades, having belonged to Charles I of Portugal). Scholar Armando Cortesão's \"Cartography and Portuguese cartographers in the fifteenth and sixteenth\" includes an extensive section devoted to Lopo Homem.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3116442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3116442", "title": "Norra Kvill National Park", "text": "Norra Kvill National Park\n\nNorra Kvill is a small national park (established in 1927) near Vimmerby in Kalmar county, Småland, southeastern Sweden. A few kilometers from the park is the Rumskulla oak, Europe's largest English oak with a circumference of about . The oak is thought to be about 1 000 years old.\n\n"}
{"id": "10916830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10916830", "title": "Perlovska", "text": "Perlovska\n\nThe Perlovska () is a small river in the Sofia Valley in western Bulgaria. The river is only long. It takes its source from the foothills of Vitosha, runs through Sofia's South Park, separates the two lanes of Evlogi Georgiev Boulevard, runs through the neighbourhood Poduyane, and finally flows into the Iskar River.\nThe well-known Orlov Most is built over this river.\n"}
{"id": "12978962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12978962", "title": "Plane table", "text": "Plane table\n\nA plane table (plain table prior to 1830) is a device used in surveying and related disciplines to provide a solid and level surface on which to make field drawings, charts and maps. The early use of the name \"plain table\" reflected its simplicity and plainness rather than its flatness.\n\nThe earliest mention of a plane table dates to 1551 in Abel Foullon's \"Usage et description de l'holomètre\", published in Paris. However, since Foullon's description was of a complete, fully developed instrument, it must have been invented earlier.\n\nA brief description was also added to the 1591 edition of Digge's \"Pantometria\". The first mention of the device in English was by Cyprian Lucar in 1590.\n\nSome have credited Johann Richter, also known as Johannes Praetorius, a Nuremberg mathematician, in 1610 with the first plane table, but this appears to be incorrect.\n\nThe plane table became a popular instrument for surveying. Its use was widely taught. Some considered it a substandard instrument compared to other devices such as the theodolite, since it was relatively easy to use. By allowing the use of graphical methods rather than mathematical calculations, it could be used by those with less education than other instruments. The addition of a camera to the plane table, as was done from 1890 by Sebastian Finsterwalder in conjunction with a phototheodolite, established photogrammetry in spatial and temporal surveying.\n\nA plane table consists of a smooth table surface mounted on a sturdy base. The connection between the table top and the base permits one to level the table precisely, using bubble levels, in a horizontal plane. The base, a tripod, is designed to support the table over a specific point on land. By adjusting the length of the legs, one can bring the table level regardless of the roughness of the terrain. \n\nIn use, a plane table is set over a point and brought to precise horizontal level. A drawing sheet is attached to the surface and an alidade is used to sight objects of interest. The alidade, in modern examples of the instrument a rule with a telescopic sight, can then be used to construct a line on the drawing that is in the direction of the object of interest.\n\nBy using the alidade as a surveying level, information on the topography of the site can be directly recorded on the drawing as elevations. Distances to the objects can be measured directly or by the use of stadia marks in the telescope of the alidade.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "808986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=808986", "title": "Polytunnel", "text": "Polytunnel\n\nA polytunnel (also known as a polyhouse, hoop greenhouse or hoophouse, grow tunnel or high tunnel) is a tunnel typically made from steel and covered in polythene, usually semi-circular, square or elongated in shape. The interior heats up because incoming solar radiation from the sun warms plants, soil, and other things inside the building faster than heat can escape the structure. Air warmed by the heat from hot interior surfaces is retained in the building by the roof and wall. Temperature, humidity and ventilation can be controlled by equipment fixed in the polytunnel or by manual opening and closing of vents. Polytunnels are mainly used in temperate regions in similar ways to glass greenhouses and row covers. Besides the passive solar heating that every polytunnel provides, every variation of auxiliary heating (from hothouse heating through minimal heating to unheated houses) is represented in current practice. The nesting of row covers and low tunnels inside high tunnels is also common.\n\nPolytunnels can be used to provide a higher temperature and/or humidity than that which is available in the environment but can also protect crops from intense heat, bright sunlight, winds, hailstones, and cold waves. This allows fruits and vegetables to be grown at times usually considered off season; market gardeners commonly use polytunnels for season extension. Beyond season extension, polytunnels are also used to allow cold-hardy crops to overwinter in regions where their hardiness isn't quite strong enough for them to survive outdoors. Temperature increases of only 5° to 15° above outdoor ambient, coupled with protection from the drying effect of wind, are enough to let selected plant varieties grow slowly but healthily instead of dying. The effect is to create a microclimate that simulates the temperatures of a location several hardiness zones closer to the equator (and protects from wind as well).\n\nEvery factor influencing a crop can be controlled in a polytunnel. Polytunnels are often used in floriculture and plant nurseries, as the revenue value of the plants can justify the expense.\n\nIn recent years the true adaptability of polytunnel structures has been realised by adapting them to suit livestock housing. Its now common place in the UK to see polytunnels used for housing sheep, alpacas, goats, calves and poultry.\n\nPolytunnels are mainly used in temperate regions in similar ways to greenhouses and cloches (row covers). Modern designs allow sowing and harvesting machines to move inside the structures so as to automate production. Polytunnels have had a significant effect on the production of strawberries in the United Kingdom. Other soft fruits such as raspberries and blackberries are also cultivated in the same way.\n<nowiki> </nowiki>In a tropical climate, temperatures are prone to soar above all normal levels. In such cases, foggers/misters are used to reduce the temperature. This does not increase the humidity levels in the poly house as the evaporated droplets are almost immediately ventilated to open air.\n\nHigh-tech poly houses even have space-heating systems as well as soil-heating systems to purify the soil of unwanted viruses, bacteria, and other organisms. The recent Indo-Israel collaboration at Gharunda, near Karnal is an excellent example of Polyhouse farming taking place in a developing country.\n\nIf developing countries were to develop a special incentive program solely for fruit-and-vegetable farmers, especially in demographically large nations like India, then the migration rate from rural to urban areas (as well as the loss of horticultural and fruit/vegetable farmers) to urban areas may be reduced. This brings a huge potential to improve the farming sector, which is key to long-term economic stability. The small polytunnels used by each farmer in each village promote the cultivation of vegetables both on-season and off-season, and would actually help to moderate the market rate for fruit and vegetables in long run, on a year-round basis, and would help to satisfy local market needs.\n\nFor example, in India, the inability to grow tomatoes generates price spikes during the monsoon season. This is seen as an ideal time to grow tomatoes in polytunnels, since they providing the ideal climate for the crop. In India, the Abhinav Farmers Club grows flowers and organic vegetables in polytunnels.\n\nHoophouses have existed at least since the 1940s, but they are much more commonly used with each passing decade, and their design continues to evolve. Because of the wide variety of constantly changing designs, in reality there is an entirely continuous spectrum from high tunnels through low tunnels to the simplest row covers, although they are often thought about as discrete steps. Major themes of continuing development are (1) achieving the same results with lighter construction and less cost and (2) making hoophouses easily movable. The advantages of mobile hoophouses include greater return on investment (with the same unit of investment getting greater use per year across different crops in different months) and more flexibility on crop rotation without ever having to bother to dig the soil out of a stationary house (or use soil steam sterilization) to cure greenhouse soil sickness.\n\nA US Department of Agriculture program is helping farmers install polytunnels. The program was announced at the US White House garden in December, 2009.\n\nFarmers in Iraq are building these in increasing number and adding drip irrigation to grow tomatoes.\n\n"}
{"id": "7127489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7127489", "title": "Riffle-pool sequence", "text": "Riffle-pool sequence\n\nIn a flowing stream, a riffle-pool sequence (also known as a pool-riffle sequence) develops as a stream's hydrological flow structure alternates from areas of relatively shallow to deeper water. This sequence is present only in streams carrying gravel or coarser sediments. Riffles are formed in shallow areas by coarser materials, such as gravel deposits, over which water flows. Pools are deeper, calmer areas whose bed load (in general) is made up of finer material such as silt. Streams with only sand or silt laden beds do not develop the feature. The sequence within a stream bed commonly occurs at intervals of from 5 to 7 stream widths. Meandering streams with relatively coarse bed load tend to develop a riffle-pool sequence with pools in the outsides of the bends and riffles in the \"crossovers\" between one meander to the next on the opposite margin of the stream. The pools are areas of active erosion and the material eroded tends to be deposited in the riffle areas between them.\n\n"}
{"id": "42326605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42326605", "title": "The Vanishing of Ethan Carter", "text": "The Vanishing of Ethan Carter\n\nThe Vanishing of Ethan Carter is a 2014 horror adventure video game developed and published by The Astronauts for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One.\n\n\"The Vanishing of Ethan Carter\" is set in an open world environment, in which the player can roam around and explore at will. The player can use paranormal abilities in order to solve crimes, such as sensing where important objects are located and reassembling the timeline of events tied to a certain death.\n\nIn 1973, Paranormal investigator Paul Prospero receives a fan letter from 12-year-old Ethan Carter, inspiring him to journey to Ethan's hometown of Red Creek Valley, Wisconsin. Upon arrival, he begins encountering unsettling paranormal phenomena, as well as evidence of recent violence in the tiny mining village.\n\nAs his investigation progresses, Prospero learns the Carter family's dark secret: Ethan had released a malevolent spirit known as the Sleeper, threatening their lives. When his uncle and mother tried to sacrifice him to appease the Sleeper, Ethan escaped with the help of his father, who committed suicide in an effort to not become a vessel of the Sleeper as Ethan's older brother Travis now was. Travis turns on Ethan, forcing his grandfather Ed to kill Travis. Ethan and Ed try to destroy the Sleeper's chambers, but Ed traps Ethan inside the chamber and waits to die outside as Ethan sets a fire within. Prospero finds Ethan, but he suddenly vanishes after they both realise Prospero was too late.\n\nUsing an elaborate mural created by Ethan, Prospero discovers that he is in fact a figment of Ethan's imagination. The cult of the Sleeper was an invention, as were the deaths of the family members during Prospero's investigation. Ethan had built a sanctuary inside a mansion in town to escape his family, particularly his overbearing mother, and abusive brother and uncle. When his mother accidentally sets the mansion on fire, trapping Ethan in the room with no way to save himself, he summons Prospero to provide comfort as he's consumed by the smoke by enacting a fictitious series of events. Having fulfilled his purpose, Prospero tells Ethan to let go, and that a new story awaits before both of them fade from the world.\n\nThe game was developed by three former People Can Fly employees, who had previously, with the company, worked on first-person shooter video games. The team was interested in moving into more story-heavy games. They almost released one, titled \"Come Midnight\", as a collaboration with THQ, although ultimately this was canceled. Upon forming their own company, The Astronauts, the team had the freedom they needed to work on such a game.\n\nFrom the start the game was always going to be focused on horror. In dissecting the genre, lead designer, Adrian Chmielarz, discovered the genre of weird fiction and from there the story \"An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge\" which he took inspiration from. Although he stated that he had the basic idea in mind prior to reading it, the story helped certify the concept in Chmielarz mind.\nFeeling that settings in games inherently felt \"a bit artificial\", the team instead were inspired by nature to create a more natural-feeling world. The setting in particular takes inspiration from the Polish Karkonosze mountains with Chmielarz describing the game as being \"shot\" there. The team used photogrammetry technology in order to create the in-game environment and make it look like the mountain range.\n\n\"The Vanishing of Ethan Carter\" received positive reviews. Aggregating review websites GameRankings and Metacritic gave the PlayStation 4 version 82.46% based on 26 reviews and 81/100 based on 32 reviews and the Microsoft Windows version 81.27% based on 41 reviews and 82/100 based on 65 reviews. The game sold 60,000 copies in its first month on sale. As of December, 2017, the game has sold over a million copies.\n\nJulian Aidan from \"Hardcore Gamer\" praised its well-designed open-world, visuals and story, but criticized the gameplay for being too linear, as well as finding the narrative aspect of the game weak. Shaun McInnis from GameSpot praised the simple yet enjoyable puzzle-solving, captivating story, outstanding graphics and breathtaking environments, but criticized its weird and vague auto-save system. Christopher Livingston from \"PC Gamer\" also criticized the save system, but praised the decent voice acting, enjoyable puzzle-solving, as well as the intriguing, satisfying, and wonderfully restrained story.\n\n\"The Vanishing of Ethan Carter\" received the Best Game Innovation Awards at 2015's British Academy Games Awards (BAFTA).\n\n\"The Vanishing of Ethan Carter\" was ported to Unreal Engine 4, and was released for the PlayStation 4 on July 15, 2015. The Unreal Engine 4 port was released for the PC on September 11, 2015, under the title \"Vanishing of Ethan Carter Redux\". Apart from the new engine, the revised version includes a new save system, and eliminates the backtracking from the ending sequence of the game.\n"}
{"id": "42557803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42557803", "title": "UFO sightings in outer space", "text": "UFO sightings in outer space\n\nUFO sightings in outer space are sightings of unidentified flying objects reported by astronauts while in space that they could not explain at the time. These sightings have been claimed as evidence for alien visits by ufologists. Some of the alleged sightings never occurred: science fiction writer Otto Binder perpetuated a hoax claiming Apollo 11 Commander Neil Armstrong had encountered UFOs during the Apollo mission. UFO proponents see comments by astronauts or photos processed by NASA as one of the \"strongest bodies of evidence\" because they are considered to be of high trustworthiness; however, NASA Assistant Administrator for Legislative Affairs, Robert F. Allnut, concluded in a 1970 letter, \"after fifteen years of manned space voyages including space stations and landing on the Moon, spacemen have brought back not a shred of evidence -- verbal, photographic, or otherwise -- for the existence of extraterrestrial spacecraft, or 'UFOs'.\"\n\nIn 2009, footage from NASA was posted on YouTube by ufologists which \"renew[ed] UFO conspiracy theories that the government is hiding knowledge about its interactions with intelligent life\" by relying on a \"lack of context\" to promote a \"collection of indistinct imagery and allegations\". A number of the incidents were collected for an episode of the 2014 television series \"Are We Alone?\".\n\nSome incidents where sightings involving astronauts or NASA include:\n\nDuring the Gemini 4 mission, pilot Jim McDivitt spotted an object that he described as a \"white cylindrical shape with a white pole sticking out of one corner of it.\" He took two pictures of it. His partner, Ed White, was asleep at the time. McDivitt maintains that it was some unknown but man-made piece of debris, while James Oberg argues that it was most likely the Titan II second stage of the craft.\n\nIn a transcript of Gemini 7 mission, the astronauts mention a \"bogey\" which ufologists have claimed was a reference to a UFO. Oberg, based on his trajectory analysis of the mission, describes the astronauts' comments about a \"bogey\" as referring to booster-associated debris, and not a reference to some sort of UFO. The astronaut who made the comments, Frank Borman, later confirmed that what he saw was not a UFO, and that when he offered to go on the television show \"Unsolved Mysteries\" to clarify, the producers told him, \"Well, I'm not sure we want you on the program.\"\n\nWithin the UFO community, stories have spread that Neil Armstrong was reported to have witnessed multiple UFOs during Apollo 11. An explanation was that the sightings could have been attributed to jettisoned components. Additional stories were accredited to a hoax spread by science fiction writer Otto Binder. Buzz Aldrin says his words were taken out of context from an interview in 2005 about the incident.\n\nDuring a 2005 spacewalk outside the International Space Station, astronaut Leroy Chiao reported seeing lights in a formation he described as \"in a line\" and \"almost like an upside-down check mark\". The incident was promoted as a possible UFO sighting in the television series \"Are We Alone?\". Chiao later identified the lights as being from fishing boats \"hundreds of miles below\".\n\nIn August 2013, according to NASA TV, astronaut Christopher Cassidy saw a UFO float past the International Space Station near its Progress 52 cargo ship. It was soon identified by Russian flight controllers as an antenna cover from the Zvezda service module.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30865207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30865207", "title": "Water quality modelling", "text": "Water quality modelling\n\nWater quality modeling involves the prediction of water pollution using mathematical simulation techniques. A typical water quality model consists of a collection of formulations representing physical mechanisms that determine position and momentum of pollutants in a water body. Models are available for individual components of the hydrological system such as surface runoff; there also exist basinwide models addressing hydrologic transport and for ocean and estuarine applications. Often finite difference methods are used to analyse these phenomena, and, almost always, large complex computer models are required.\n\nWater quality is modeled by one or more of the following formulations:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10496506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10496506", "title": "Western Palaearctic", "text": "Western Palaearctic\n\nThe Western Palaearctic or Western Palearctic is part of the Palaearctic ecozone, one of the eight ecozones dividing the Earth's surface. Because of its size, the Palaearctic is often divided for convenience into two, with Europe, North Africa, northern and central parts of the Arabian Peninsula, and part of temperate Asia, roughly to the Ural Mountains forming the western zone, and the rest of temperate Asia becoming the Eastern Palaearctic. Its exact boundaries differ depending on the authority in question, but the \"Handbook of the Birds of Europe, the Middle East, and North Africa: The Birds of the Western Palearctic)\" (\"BWP\") definition is widely used, and is followed by the most popular Western Palearctic checklist, that of the Association of European Rarities Committees (AERC). The Western Palearctic ecozone includes mostly boreal and temperate climate ecoregions.\n\nThe Palaearctic region has been recognised as a natural zoogeographic region since Sclater proposed it in 1858. The oceans to the north and west, and the Sahara to the south are obvious natural boundaries with other ecozones, but the eastern boundary is more arbitrary, since it merges into another part of the same ecozone, and the mountain ranges used as markers are less effective biogeographic separators. The climate differences across the Western Palearctic region can cause behavioral differences within the same species across geographical distance, such as in the sociality of behavior for bees of the species \"Lasioglossum malachurum\".\n"}
{"id": "55949736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55949736", "title": "Yukon Ice Patches", "text": "Yukon Ice Patches\n\nThe Yukon Ice Patches are a series of dozens of ice patches in the southern Yukon discovered in 1997, which have preserved hundreds of archaeological artifacts, with some more than 9,000 years old. The first ice patch was discovered on the mountain Thandlät, west of the Kusawa Lake campground which is west of Whitehorse, Yukon. The Yukon Ice Patch Project began shortly afterwards with a partnership between archaeologists in partnership with six Yukon First Nations, on whose traditional territory the ice patches were found. They include the Carcross/Tagish First Nation, the Kwanlin Dün First Nation, the Ta’an Kwäch’än Council, the Champagne and Aishihik First Nations, the Kluane First Nation, and the Teslin Tlingit Council.\n\nCryologists, describe how ice patches, such the rare Yukon alpine region ice patches, differ from glaciers. The latter are constantly moving; they gradually build up mass over time until they reach a certain size, when they slowly flow downhill. Unlike glaciers, ice patches do not move. As some of the snow remaining from winter accumulation melts, the rest is gradually compressed into ice. Ice patches do not achieve enough mass to flow downhill so any artifacts within are preserved intact without being crushed.\n\nIn the 1990s \"during a period of extremely warm summer temperatures\" with ice patches melting, the Yukon Ice Patch Project began. In September 1997, Gerald W. Kuzyk discovered the first of the Yukon ice patches artifacts, a atlatl dart fragment, on mountain Thandlät at an elevation of .\n\nThe Yukon Ice Patches are studied by archaeologists in partnership with six Yukon First Nations, on whose traditional territory the ice patches were found. They include the Carcross/Tagish First Nation, the Kwanlin Dün First Nation, the Ta’an Kwäch’än Council, the Champagne and Aishihik First Nations, the Kluane First Nation, and the Teslin Tlingit Council.\n\nThe 43 Yukon Ice Patches in southern Yukon included \"more than 207 archaeological objects and 1700 faunal remains have been recovered from 43 melting ice patches in the southern Yukon. The artifacts range in age from a 9000-year-old (calendar) dart shaft to a 19th-century musket ball...Of particular interest is the description of three different techniques for the construction of throwing darts and the observation of stability in the hunting technology employed in the study area over seven millennia. Radiocarbon chronologies indicate that this period of stability was followed by an abrupt technological replacement of the throwing dart by the bow and arrow after 1200 BP.\" The artifacts are curated by the Yukon Archaeology Program, Government of Yukon.\n\nIn the Kusawa Lake area, there are no longer any caribou, but in her 1987 interviews, Elder Mary Ned (born 1890s-) spoke about caribou being “all over this place.” Evidence of this was proven by the nearby discovery of the Ice Patch artifacts...Oral history tells us that a corral, or caribou fence was located on the east side of the lake, between the lake and the mountain.\"\n"}
{"id": "47457951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47457951", "title": "Zadeni (crater)", "text": "Zadeni (crater)\n\nZadeni is a large crater in the southern hemisphere of the dwarf planet Ceres, located at 70.36° S, 38.34° E. It has a diameter of . The crater is named after Zaden, or \"Zadeni\", the Kartli (Georgian) god of fruitfulness. The International Astronomical Union (IAU) Working Group for Planetary System Nomenclature (WGPSN) assigned the name after the crater's discovery during the Dawn mission.\n\nToday, Zadeni is among the southernmost named craters on Ceres and, as of August 26, 2017, it remains the southernmost on the planet, with its southern rim further south than Attis.\n\nProminent craters nearby are Mondamin, just west of the crater rim, Sintana further north, and both Hamori and the recently named Ratumaibulu to the northeast.\n\nA number of smaller craters are within the perimeter of Zadeni, some bordering the rim, a tiny crater to the east, two small ones to the northwest, and another to the west, close to Mondamin. It is one of a couple of craters on the planet featuring a central peak. West of this peak is a small crater which now has got the name Thrud.\n"}
