{"id": "17613692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17613692", "title": "750 7th Avenue", "text": "750 7th Avenue\n\n750 Seventh Avenue is a 615 ft (187m) tall Class-A office skyscraper in New York City. It was completed in 1989 in the postmodern style and has 36 floors. Kevin Roche John Dinkeloo & Associates designed the building, and it is owned by Hines, a Texas based real estate investment company. The building's continuous helix design, culminating in a chimney-like extension, was caused by the New York City Building Code, which requires setbacks. The 84 exterior column transfers exist because of the owner's requirement for a column-free space. It is tied with the New York Life Building for the 74th tallest building in New York City. It is also LEED certified.\n\nIn April 2011, Fosterlane Management from Kuwait announced they would be purchasing the building from Hines for $485 million.\n\n"}
{"id": "36191062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36191062", "title": "Alok Dixit", "text": "Alok Dixit\n\nAlok Dixit is a journalist turned social activist, fighting for the freedom of internet in India. He is the founder member of 'Save Your Voice’, a movement against internet censorship in India and 'Stop Acid Attacks' Campaign, a campaign to raise voices against acid violence.\n\nHis works includes campaigning against the censorship on the online media and to help acid survivors to live a life free of violence. With his demand of free and open internet, Alok is creating a nationwide awareness among the youth through his writings and peaceful protests. He is advocating for the protection of freedom of expression and human rights by engaging communities and supporting people’s voices around the world. He is also working hand in hand with government, donors, media, NGOs, celebrities and students to help acid survivors rebuild their lives and to prevent further attack.\n\nAlok Dixit is born in a Brahmin family in Kanpur in 1988. He is an alumnus of Indian Institute of Journalism & New Media, Bangalore, India.\n\nAlok joined Indian Air Force in 2007 and served till Mar 2009. He resigned from the service and became a fellow of IIJNM, Bangalore. After a short service as a reporter in TV9 News channel in Mumbai, he switched to Jagran Prakashan Limited and worked for portal Inext Live.\n\nAlok works with the survivors of acid attacks in India. In the last two years, Dixit built a campaign across the country called \"Stop Acid Attacks\". This organization, made up mainly of acid attack victims, makes it a point to visit the victims and help them in whatever way possible.\n\nAlok Dixit, set out to fight against the scourge of acid attacks in India. Along the way, the issue consumed him and he found himself in a relationship with acid attack survivor turned activist and TV Anchor, Laxmi. The 24-year-old Laxmi from Delhi, who is also a winner of a 2014 Women of Courage award, underwent seven major surgeries to try and reduce the burns to her skin, told to People Magazine, ‘'After the attack, I never thought I would ever find a soulmate. I had lost hope. She said: 'Someone asked me the question of what if the attacker still offered to marry me? I said, he has changed my face, but he has failed to change my mind”. Afterward,I never wanted to find love. I mean there was no hope in any case because of the scars\".\n\nBut after meeting Dixit, that all changed and she says she learned to love again. “But in Alok, I couldn't have found anyone better. He understood the kind of pain I was in. He understood what I had been going through\".\n\nAlok says, “Just like anyone falls in love, I fell in love with Laxmi”.\n“Yes, she is the victim of an acid attack, and it shows, but that did not come in the way of our relationship. I liked her courage and the fact that she boldly faced the world without trying to hide within four walls\".\n\nBoth decided not to get married and instead be in a live-in relationship. Alok writes in one of his blogs on Aljazeera, “Marriage in our situation can bring with it lots of pressure on us. Relatives will attend the wedding for the curiosity value rather than any real concern for our happiness.” He says, “I am not going to follow the norms that the society approves of. We will prove that our love does not need a name. Our love is about understanding and support\".\n\n'We have decided to live together until we die. But we are challenging the society by not getting married. We don’t want people to come to our wedding and comment on my looks. The looks of a bride are most important for people. So we decided not to have any ceremony' says Laxmi.\n\nTheir families have accepted the relationship and also their decision not to have a ceremonial wedlock. They now have a daughter named Pihu.\n\nAlok Dixit along with his friend Aseem Trivedi and Arpit Gupta and Chirag Joshi started Save Your Voice, which soon became a public movement in India. His campaigning against the government and intermediaries has gained international media attention. A debate on the issue of internet censorship has been started after the creative protests of Save Your Voice. Langada March was a big success of his campaigns in the initial days. Sibal’s Day Campaign and Freedom in the Cage involved young bloggers, writers, journalists and students to its campaign.\n\nWhile reporting on the Sibal’s Day campaign, a reporter writes in Wall Street Journal, \" Although Save Your Voice is relatively small; it is gaining popularity on social media.\" The Hindu observes Freedom in the cage as the idea which portrays that artistes inside a cage playing the guitar or painting a canvas was equal to the government's IT rules that have \"caged\" the freedom of the people granted by the Constitution of India.\n\nWith his reservations on the Intermediary Guidelines of the Information Technology Act, 2011 of India, Alok Dixit along with his colleague Aseem Trivedi started a hunger strike at Jantar Mantar to support the annulment motion in Rajya Sabha. Foreign Policy considers this fast as the ‘most colorful highlights’ from the internet freedom movements in India.\n\nThe former CNN journalist and co-founder of Global Voices Online, Rebecca MacKinnon writes, \"A lively national Internet freedom movement has grown rapidly across India since the beginning of this year. The most colorful highlight so far was a seven-day Gandhian hunger strike, otherwise known as a \"freedom fast,\" held in early May on a New Delhi sidewalk by political cartoonist Aseem Trivedi and activist-journalist Alok Dixit.\" The Hindu quotes Alok on the fourth day of the Hunger strike, \"The empowerment that social media provides has begun to be seen as threatening. This is an attempt to clamp down on an individual’s right to dissent and his freedom of expression. Alok and his friend ended their Anshan after their health deteriorated and Police forcefully admitted them to the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in New Delhi.\" Reporters Without Borders criticized Indian Government in their press release saying, “Two of the movement’s campaigners, the cartoonist Aseem Trivedi and the citizen journalist Alok Dixit, were forced today to end a hunger strike they began on 2 May. Their health had deteriorated considerably and they were hospitalized.”\n\nMasked members of Save Your Voice held a protest at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi against Indian government's attempts to restrict freedom on the Internet. The protest in India was spearheaded by 'Save Your Voice' and 'Anonymous' at various historic monuments in 16 cities, of India. Alok took active part in the networking between the International hacking group and Indian members of Save Your Voice.\nThe protest has resulted in access being denied to a host of websites that carry illegal copies of films and albums among other legal content, including isohunt.com and pastebin.com. The website of one of the Save Your Voice members, Aseem Trivedi, was also blocked by BigRock and against which the members protested and campaigned throughout India. \"The government is bringing censorship through the back door and we will oppose it,\" says Alok in one of his interviews with The Asian Age. To register their protest, campaigners have also hacked the website of state-run telecom provider MTNL and pasted the logo of the Anonymous group, the mask of 17th century British revolutionary Guy Fawkes, on mtnl.net.in. MTNL's corporate website could not be accessed for over four hours, following the attack, but its individual city-specific websites (for Delhi and Mumbai)remained unaffected.\n\nPolice in Maharashtra state arrested Aseem Trivedi, a political cartoonist and the co-founder of Save Your Voice campaign, on Saturday, 9 September 2012. He faced charges of sedition, violating Internet security laws, and insulting national honor for publishing cartoons mocking national symbols and criticizing corruption on his website, Cartoons Against Corruption. After the Trivedi’s arrest, Alok run a nationwide campaign against the arrest of the cartoonist under the banner of Save Your Voice. The campaign got huge public support from civil society groups and artist communities across borders. Mahesh Bhatt, a prominent Bollywood figure and film director, joined the press conference at Mumbai Press Club with activist Alok Dixit and offered every possible support in Trivedi’s case. Alok has also mediated between the Home Minister RR Patil and cartoonist Aseem Trivedi when cartoonist refused to take bail. Dixit is now working closely with the prominent activists like Binayak Sen, Arvind Kejriwal, Arundhati Roy and Aseem Trivedi to repeal the Sedition Law.\n\nAfter repeated misuse of sec 66 A of the IT Act Alok Dixit with his colleague from Save Your Voice, Aseem Trivedi decided to sit on an indefinite hunger (Anshan) strike against this draconian law. This got a bigger public attention when activist turned politician Arvind Kejriwal joined this campaign and promised to make it a nationwide agenda. He and his colleague Trivedi ended the fast after Kejriwal requested him not to waste his life and rather work towards ‘uprooting the UPA government’. To support the hunger strike, Anonymous hacked the Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) website. BSNL home page showed an image of cartoonist Trivedi with text that read \"Hacked by Anonymous India. Support Aseem trivedi (cartoonist) and Alok Dixit on the hunger strike. Remove IT Act 66 A databases of all 250 bsnl site has been d Hacked by Anonymous India (sic)\".\n\n"}
{"id": "39316873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39316873", "title": "Awn Access to Justice Network in Gaza Strip", "text": "Awn Access to Justice Network in Gaza Strip\n\nIt used to call \"Network of Legal Aid Providers Awn\", in March 2013 the member of the network change the name to \"Awn Access to Justice Network in Gaza Strip\" AJ Net. Also known as \"Awn Network\" (), many people in Gaza prefer to call it Legal Clinics (), it was established by UNDP/PAPP – Gaza in ِApril-2011. It’s comprised primarily from organizations that are non-public, non-state civil society actors that are politically unaffiliated.\n\nThe members of Awn Network are; the , human right organizations, community-based organizations and academic institutions, the permanent secretariat of the Awn Network is within the Palestinian Bar Association. In 2012 network members provided legal aid services (awareness, consultation and representation) to more than 23,000 people, of whom 72% were women.\nAwn Net has invested heavily in coordination and cooperation within the 20 members of the network by supporting dialogue meetings (including the Legal Task Force), referral mechanisms, the case management system and the legal aid database, while continuing to provide capacity development support to individual network members and working to ensure sustainability of the network.\nAwn Network has provided legal services to mainly poor and vulnerable people, to strengthen their access to justice and solve their legal problems at the lowest and simplest level possible.\n\nLegal services start with legal information and education, giving people knowledge that they have rights under the law and how to exercise them. Such knowledge and confidence can help in solving legal problems without recourse to the courts, a cost-effective and empowering strategy. Where legal remedies are available, this can be the cheapest and simplest form of legal aid, and the one where the greatest resources should be applied.\nLegal advice (explaining what the law means and how to exercise it in relation to a concrete problem) is often less costly than providing assistance – understood as helping a person to take legal steps to protect their rights.\nFree judicial representation by Awn Network’s legal aid lawyers is only limited to poor individuals who can’t afford paying courts fees or lawyers’ costs.\n\nStatistics for people Benefited from Awn Access to Justice Network in Gaza Strip, From April 2011 to May 2013.\n\nThe Awn Network oversees 14 legal aid clinics. There are two types of legal clinics, university/in-campus legal clinics and community legal aid clinics. The community legal aid clinics are based at civil society organizations and aims at providing free of charge legal services to needy people and enhancing access to justice. The purpose of in-campus legal clinics is to encourage students’ engagement with the issues and concerns of the community. In addition, students are exposed to hands-on legal experience and they receive high-quality training on legal skills\n\nThe Secretary-General for Awn net is Mr Salama Bseiso 2011-2013, the following NGOs are the main members of the net:\n\n"}
{"id": "7504377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7504377", "title": "Baptist Joint Committee for Religious Liberty", "text": "Baptist Joint Committee for Religious Liberty\n\nThe Baptist Joint Committee for Religious Liberty (BJC) is an education and advocacy association in the United States with a number of Baptist denominations. It states that it seeks to promote religious liberty for all and to uphold the principle of church-state separation. It has, for example, joined with other religious organizations in opposing government-sponsored displays of the Ten Commandments.\n\nThe BJC defines itself in the following terms: \n\nThe mission of the Baptist Joint Committee for Religious Liberty is to defend and extend God-given religious liberty for all, furthering the Baptist heritage that champions the principle that religion must be freely exercised, neither advanced nor inhibited by government.\n\nThe BJC strives to avoid language of speaking \"for\" Baptists or \"representing\" Baptists. It is the firm belief of BJC staffers that, in the words of a former Executive Director of the organization, \"You don't speak \"for\" Baptists. You only speak \"to\" Baptists.\"\n\nThe BJC restricts its activities to a small number of issues relating to religious liberty and the separation of church and state: church electioneering, civil religion, free exercise, government funding, political discourse, public prayer, and religious displays. On all of these issues, the organization supports a balanced approach that broadly interprets both the free exercise and no establishment clauses of the First Amendment.\n\nTo promote its positions on these issues, the organization uses the strategies of education, legislation, and litigation. They publish a wide array of materials relating to church-state separation, from self-published historical pamphlets to significant coalition statements.\n\nOne of the most effective educating tools in recent years was \"Religion in the Public Schools: A Joint Statement of Current Law.\" Drafted and endorsed by a number of leading organizations spanning the political spectrum, from the National Association of Evangelicals and the Christian Legal Society to the American Civil Liberties Union and the National Council of Churches, the document was a resource for parents, students, teachers, and administrators throughout the United States. In fact, this document was later condensed and mailed to schools across the country by President Bill Clinton because of its accuracy and reliability. The Baptist Joint Committee was a member of the drafting committee for this document.\n\nIn addition to education, the Baptist Joint Committee participates in legislative activities geared towards advocating for the passage or defeat of various bills within the U.S. Congress. Most of these activities revolve around speaking directly to members of Congress concerning legislation, but occasionally the general counsel or executive director will be called upon to testify before Congress. Brent Walker, the current Executive Director, has testified before Congress on a number of occasions, most notably being on October 25, 1995, on the issue of the Religious Equality Amendment. Speaking before the Senate Judiciary Committee, Walker said, \"The best government can do is to get out of religion's way; the worst it can do is to get behind and push. The present constitutional language requires the former; the proposed amendments would allow the latter. Persons of faith who treasure religious liberty don't need or want an amendment.\"\n\nA significant part of the BJC's work to protect religious liberty has been its participation in religious liberty cases that are considered by various courts, particularly in the Supreme Court. The BJC engages in litigation by filing \"amicus curiae\" briefs, a term that means \"friend of the court.\" Those briefs are filed to assist the court by providing support for specific points at issue in the dispute. Throughout the BJC's history, the organization has filed more than 120 legal briefs in court cases.\n\nServing 15 Baptist bodies, the BJC is a non-profit 501(c)(3) education and advocacy organization that has worked for more than 75 years promoting religious liberty for all and upholding the principle of church-state separation. It is supported by the following Baptist organizations:\n\n\nIn addition to receiving support from Baptist organizations, the BJC also receives support from individuals who identify with the cause of religious liberty and church-state separation.\n\nBaptist involvement in public affairs began formally on Saturday, May 16, 1936, when the Southern Baptist Convention (SBC) created the Committee on Public Relations. The committee had the following charge:\n\n... as situations arise, in which agencies of this Convention are compelled to confer, to negotiate, to demand just rights that are being threatened or to have other inescapable dealings with the American or other Governments, this Committee shall function, when so requested by any existing board or agency of this body, as the representative of Southern Baptists and shall report in detail to the Southern Baptist Convention the results of such conferences and negotiations.\n\nThis \"first incarnation\" of the Baptist Joint Committee (BJC) was soon joined by a similar body chartered by the Northern Baptist Convention (NBC) on May 25, 1937. Soon after, the Conventions began discussing the possibility of a joint venture, and both committees often worked jointly on issues of mutual concern. The NBC in 1937 and 1939 summarily passed resolutions promoting the combination of the committees, but the SBC resisted formal operational cooperation until 1941, when a resolution was finally passed that supported organizational merger. With the adoption of a precisely similar resolution from the NBC's Committee on Public Relations, the Joint Conference Committee on Public Relations was officially created.\n\nThe resolutions of both the SBC and the NBC included provisions for joint endeavor with the Committee on Public Relations of the National Baptist Convention, USA and the National Baptist Convention of America, and the reports to the SBC and NBC indicate that these two major black Baptist conventions were included in the cooperation surrounding the combination.\n\nIn 1946 the committee established offices in Washington, D.C., and became the Baptist Joint Committee on Public Affairs. Joseph Martin Dawson was elected the organization's first full-time Executive Director, a position he held until his retirement at age seventy-five on October 13, 1953.\n\nDawson's leadership led to a number of significant changes within the organization. One of the first was the introduction of the \"Report from the Capital\", a periodical containing news and opinions of interest to politically minded Baptists. The first issue appeared in October, 1946, and the Baptist Joint Committee has published the \"Report\" ever since as a primary source for its opinions and views on church-state issues.\n\nIn addition to publishing the \"Report\", the organization gained office space through the generous support of the Baptist World Alliance and the District of Columbia Baptist Association. Dawson also expanded the organization's base of support to include the Seventh Day Baptists, and the North American Baptist General Conference. Overtures were made to the various organizations of General Baptists, although such efforts were largely unsuccessful.\n\nOne of the final changes wrought by Dawson's tenure was the preparation of the BJC's first constitution. This constitution was one of the factors which led to the narrowing focus of the Baptist Joint Committee on issues related primarily to church-state separation. The constitution stated:\n\nIn 1979, a shift occurred when the Southern Baptist Convention elected Adrian Rogers to the convention presidency.\n\nThe relationship with the Convention got rockier throughout the 1980s. Prior to these years, resolutions had passed the annual meetings regularly expressing near-unanimous support to the BJC and its stands. But as the eighties brought charges of liberalism among the BJC staff on a variety of issues, James Dunn, who assumed his duties as Executive Director in 1980 at the beginning of the controversy, responded:\n\nThroughout the controversy, significant leadership among the conservative faction were attacking Dunn repeatedly. an example comes from Paige Patterson: \"[Dunn] hobnobs with the liberal establishment in the house and Senate ... That doesn't make us very happy either.\" In that same year, the convention defeated a motion to cut off funding for the BJC at their Kansas City meeting.\n\nIn 1986, relations seemed to improve when a special study committee formed by the Executive Committee to study a motion to cut off funding recommended maintaining ties with the BJC. An exhaustive report by Dr. Hugh Wamble of Midwestern Baptist Theological Seminary also delivered a positive recommendation, and the Convention allocated a record budget donation to the BJC in that year. In return, the SBC share of board members in the BJC was increased to 18 from 15, giving them one-third of the seats on the Committee. These members were authorized to function as a separate \"Public Affairs Committee\" (PAC), and proceeded to pass a number of resolutions on matters they knew could not be supported by the BJC, such as the Bork nomination.\n\nThe PAC then requested to conduct a two-day evaluation of the staff. Instead, the BJC executive committee, composed of other denominational representatives and the PAC, voted to conduct a thorough evaluation that would serve the interests of all represented denominations, the PAC requested a number of documents related to staff expenses and compensation. The BJC complied on a number of requests, but refused to provide access to confidential staff correspondence and individual expense accounts. After these meetings and losing these critical votes, the PAC voted separately to cut ties with the BJC.\n\nAlthough the PAC protested that they merely were trying to exercise accountability, C.J. Malloy Jr., of the Progressive National Baptist Convention, had this to say about the PAC effort:\n\nIn 1988, at the fall meeting of the SBC Executive Committee, the group recommended in a 42 to 27 vote that a competing Religious Liberty Commission be established in Washington. James Dunn, who was not invited to the hearing, called the process \"shabby, unfair, unethical, and improper,\" He asserted that the BJC would not compromise their principles for what he termed \"a mess of politically tainted pottage.\"\n\nIn 1989, a motion failed by 6,034 to 5,198 to give $350,000 of the BJC's funding to the Southeastern Baptist Theological Seminary. At the same meeting, there was a tense exchange between James Dunn and the PAC chairman, Samuel T. Currin. Currin charged the BJC as soliciting $100,000 to $200,000 in funding outside their constitution. Dunn replied: \n\nThere are those whose mentality is so conspiratorial, so dark and manipulatively political that they cannot imagine the groundswell of support that has come to the Baptist Joint Committee simply because our funding was cut in San Antonio last year ... They didn't ask if they could, if they should, if we would take it. But I am just like anybody who has an agency responsibility—I haven't sent a single check back. But I have not been soliciting funds.\n\nIn the same space, Dunn indicated that the Committee could be provided with a list of their new contributors arranged by category, but they would not name individual donors to prevent them from being added to the SBC leadership's \"hit list.\n\nIn 1990, the SBC reduced the BJC budget to $50,000, an 87% decrease over its previous levels of funding. A year later, at the 1991 annual meeting, all funding to the BJC was abolished in an amendment from Fred Minix of Virginia.\n\nAfter the SBC withdrew its financial support, the Baptist Joint Committee received donations directly from several Southern Baptist state conventions, local churches, and individuals. The agency's other supporting bodies also helped make up the financial difference.\n\nIn 2005, the BJC name was changed to the \"Baptist Joint Committee for Religious Liberty\" to more accurately reflect their singular focus on religious liberty issues.\n\nThe Baptist Joint Committee celebrated its 75th anniversary in 2011 and released a special edition of \"Report from the Capital\" highlighting the history of the organization.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45157727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45157727", "title": "Bile Beans", "text": "Bile Beans\n\nBile Beans was a laxative and tonic first marketed in the 1890s. The product supposedly contained substances extracted from a hitherto unknown vegetable source by a fictitious chemist known as Charles Forde. In the early years Bile Beans were marketed as \"Charles Forde's Bile Beans for Biliousness\", and sales relied heavily on newspaper advertisements. Among other cure-all claims, Bile Beans promised to \"disperse unwanted fat\" and \"purify and enrich the blood\".\n\nAlthough the manufacturer claimed that the formula for Bile Beans was based on a vegetable source known only to Aboriginal Australians, its actual ingredients, which included cascara, rhubarb, liquorice and menthol, were commonly found in pharmacies of the period. A court case initiated in Scotland in 1905 found that the Bile Bean Manufacturing Company's business was based on a fraud and conducted fraudulently, but Bile Beans continued to be sold until the 1980s nevertheless.\n\nCharles Edward Fulford (1870–1906) and Ernest Albert Gilbert (1875–1905) first sold Bile Beans in Australia in late 1897, marketed as \"Gould's Bile Beans\". Fulford was a Canadian who had travelled to Australia to sell Dr. Williams' Pink Pills for Pale People for his uncle, George Taylor Fulford.\n\nFulford and Gilbert established the Bile Bean Manufacturing Company in Leeds, England, in 1899. It was claimed that the formula for Bile Beans was created by an Australian scientist Charles Forde in 1898, based on research he had conducted on a vegetable source known only to Aboriginal Australians. In reality, Charles Forde did not exist; the name was used as an alias for Charles Fulford, who had no scientific training. The beans were initially manufactured in America by Parke Davis & Co. of Detroit, until the Bile Bean Manufacturing Company set up a production facility in Leeds, England, trading under the name of C. E. Fulford Limited, which also sold other patent medicines, including the Zam-Buk ointment, Pep pastilles and later Vitapointe hair conditioner.\n\nThe product sold by Fulford and Gilbert was not the first patent medicine marketed as \"Bile Beans\". A different type of Bile Beans was invented by James F. Smith, a chemist from Texarkana, Texas, in the 1870s or 1880s, and J.F. Smith & Co traded out of St Louis, Mo. The firm also produced a product called \"Smith's Blood Beans\", claimed to \"purify the blood\" and was \"put up in packages similar to Bile Beans\" with \"sugar coating blood red in color\", and a \"wrapper [...] lithographed in red ink instead of black\". In 1902 the Bile Bean Manufacturing Company acquired the trade mark of \"J. F. Smith's Bile Beans\" in the UK, which had been registered in 1887.\n\nAccording to a 1903 report published in the \"British Medical Journal\", the chief ingredients of Bile Beans were cascara, rhubarb, liquorice and menthol, packaged as a gelatine-coated pill, all ingredients commonly found in pharmacies of the period. It was not until 1941 that English companies were legally required to disclose the active ingredients in their non-prescription drugs. By the 1940s, the ingredients included various purgatives, cholagogues, and carminatives, including aloin (aloe), Podophyllum, cascara, scammony, jalap, colocynth, leptandrin, saponis (soap), cardamom, capsicum, ginger, peppermint oil, and gentian, mixed with liquorice, powdered gum (acacia or tragacanth) and glucose, coated with black charcoal or carbon powder to form ovoid pills.\n\nIn 1905 the Bile Beans Manufacturing Company initiated a passing off court case in Scotland against an Edinburgh chemist, George Graham Davidson, who sold \"Davidson's Bile Beans\", seeking to prevent him from selling any product using the name \"bile beans\" except that supplied by the company. The presiding judge, Lord Ardwall, rejected the case, as he considered that the plaintiff's business was \"founded on, and conducted by fraud\", there being no secret ingredient and no connection with any plant found in Australia. The Court of Session dismissed an appeal, because it considered that the Bile Bean Manufacturing Company had deliberately defrauded the public by making false factual statements about the product, concluding that it was not entitled to any legal protection against the use of the term \"bile beans\".\n\nAfter setting up in England in 1899 the company spent about £60,000 a year in advertising its products, and according to Birmingham University Professor of Medicine Robert Saundby, \"created a demand by flooding the country with advertisements, placards, pamphlets and imaginary pictures.\" Early newspaper promotions usually took the form of testimonials proclaiming \"miraculous life changing cures\". Often illustrated, they included letters from customers cured of lost appetites, severe headaches, indigestion and biliousness. A half-page advertisement in the \"Sheffield Evening Telegraph\" on 12 October 1900 featured a lady who had been cured by Bile Beans after ten doctors had failed to successfully treat her condition; copies of signed affidavits from neighbours were also printed. The level of advertising was not curtailed despite the adverse comments made by the judges in the court ruling.\nAmong the more unusual marketing promotions undertaken by the Bile Beans Manufacturing Company was the \"Bile Bean March\", composed by Charles Fulford's older brother Frank Harris Fulford and first published in 1898. The music was described as \"a bold, spirited composition\" in a 1902 newspaper report. Readers could apply to receive a free copy of the sheet music by sending their address details to the company. Another marketing ploy was the production of a cookery book, which was also made widely available free of charge. A \"Bile Bean Puzzle Book\" was published during the early 1930s and also freely distributed. By that time advertising for Bile Beans had become increasingly targeted at women, promising them health, bright eyes and a slim figure if taken regularly.\n\nWhen Radio Luxembourg started longwave commercial radio broadcasts in English in 1933, its first advertisers were Fulford's Bile Beans and Zam-Buk.\n\nDuring the 1940s newspaper advertising was supplemented by a poster campaign. Aimed at maintaining high levels of purchasing by women, the posters featured young ladies dressed to participate in various activities, including horse riding, swimming and hiking; the designs were the work of S. H. Benson, a London advertising agency whose clients included Bovril and Guinness. \"The Bulletin of the North Carolina State Board of Health\" hypothesised in 1916–17 that many provincial newspapers relied heavily on the revenues generated by advertisements from manufacturers of suspect remedies, and it speculated that editorial control had been applied to restrict extensive reporting of the Bile Beans court case. Similar suspicions had been raised almost ten years earlier by medical director Eric Pritchard who went on to highlight a clause showing newspaper advertising contracts could be revoked if the publication carried any material considered \"detrimental to the Company's interest\".\nGilbert died in 1905 and Charles Fulford the following year in Australia, aged 36, after which the business was run by Charles's older brother, Frank Harris Fulford. Charles's estate was valued at £1.3 million, around £ today. He made several bequests which included the gift of twenty per cent of the company shares to the British charity Barnardo's, although this conditional donation sparked consternation. The clauses stipulated the charity must set up a limited company that would only sell Bile Beans and patent medicines manufactured by Fulford's businesses; additionally, Barnardo's were forbidden to sell any of the shares. A writer in the British Medical Journal suggested the bequest presented the charity with an ethical dilemma as it enjoyed the patronage from both medical and religious professions so to trade in products described by a judge as fraudulent would be perpetuating the deception. Initially Barnardo's refused the gift but eventually accepted an unconditional lump sum.\n\nDespite the Bile Beans Manufacturing Company having lost the Scottish court case in 1906, Bile Beans remained popular through the 1930s, and continued to be sold until the 1980s. The business was so successful that Frank Fulford was able to purchase Headingley Castle in Leeds in 1909, and to donate artworks to the museum at Temple Newsam.\n\n"}
{"id": "24067680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24067680", "title": "Blasphemy law in the United Arab Emirates", "text": "Blasphemy law in the United Arab Emirates\n\nThe United Arab Emirates (UAE) has Islam as its official religion, and the federation regards blasphemy as a very serious matter. The UAE uses the school system as well as censorship and control of the press and the broadcast media to prevent blasphemy. When blasphemy occurs, the Emirates have two court systems to mete out punishment.\n\nCitizens make up twenty percent of the Emirates' population. Of the citizens, eighty-five percent are Sunni; the remainder are Shia. The Constitution provides for freedom of religion subject to established customs.\n\nThe Emirates make the study of Islam compulsory in government schools and compulsory for Muslim students in private schools. Children whose passports identify them as Muslim (though their parents may be Bahai or Druze) must study Islam. Private schools must not teach subjects or use textbooks that offend Islam, defame any religion, or contravene the country's moral sensibilities.\n\nThe Emirates have a system of Sharia courts and a system of secular courts. Both systems handle criminal and civil cases. The secular courts are usually part of the federal system and are answerable to the Federal Supreme Court in Abu Dhabi. The Sharia courts are administered by each emirate, but they are answerable to the Federal Supreme Court. The court systems in the emirates of Dubai and Ras al Khaimah are independent of the federal system, but they apply the Civil Procedure Code. Each court system has a multilevel appeals process, and verdicts in all capital cases are appealable to the President. The nature of a case determines which court system hears it, but most cases fall under the jurisdiction of the secular courts. Due-process rights are uniform under both Sharia and civil court procedure. The courts operate on a presumption of innocence. The Federal Supreme Court ruled in 1993 that Sharia punishments may not be imposed on non-Muslims. Extrajudicial punishment of alleged wrongdoers is not unknown.\n\nAll English and Arabic newspapers published in the UAE receive government subsidies. Foreign and domestic publications are subject to censorship. The Censorship Department of the Ministry of Information and Culture reviews all imported newspapers, periodicals, books, films, and videos, and bans items considered pornographic, violent, derogatory to Islam, favorable to Israel, unduly critical of friendly countries, or critical of the Government or the ruling family. Religious books and audio/video tapes containing blasphemy are prohibited. The government does not own all the television and radio stations in the UAE, but it ensures that they all further the government's policies. In 2009, the Emirates were considering a media law which would give the government authority to regulate who can work as an editor, reporter, correspondent, or producer in the country. The government blocks access to websites which promote a secular or democratic point of view or which do not promote Islam.\n\nIn 1993, after an appeal, two of ten Indian expatriates convicted in 1992 of blasphemy for producing and performing in a play that was critical of Islam and Christianity had their sentences extended from six years to ten years.\n\nIn 2008, three Filipino workers were jailed in the Emirate of Sharjah allegedly for ripping a page out of the Quran and scribbling on the page. The allegation arose during a dispute between the workers and their employer. The government revoked the workers' permits to work.\n\nIn 2012, a French businessman was arrested for defacing the Quran by spitting on it before he assaulted and threatened to kill a new British Muslim convert after she refused to marry him. The Frenchman spat on the Quran and insulted Islam and all its prophets. He also threw on the floor a separate book that contained collections of Hadith. He was arrested and jailed for two years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25588468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25588468", "title": "Cambridge Law Journal", "text": "Cambridge Law Journal\n\nThe Cambridge Law Journal () is a peer-reviewed academic law journal published by Cambridge University Press. It is the principal academic publication of the Faculty of Law of the University of Cambridge. Founded in 1921 it is the longest running university law journal in the United Kingdom . Its current editor is John Bell. Based on the outcomes of the 2001 Research Assessment Exercise a 2006 analysis ranked the journal as overall the 7th most influential in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Cambridge Law Journal was founded as a student publication by the Cambridge University Law Society. As it gained recognition for quality, its management was taken over by the Faculty of Law, University of Cambridge.\n"}
{"id": "4355665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4355665", "title": "Canada (Minister of Justice) v Borowski", "text": "Canada (Minister of Justice) v Borowski\n\nCanada (Minister of Justice) v Borowski, [1981] 2 S.C.R. 575 is a landmark Supreme Court of Canada decision on the standard for allowing public interests to gain standing to challenge a law. The Court developed what is known as the Borowski test for public interest standing.\n\nJoseph Borowski was a prominent pro-life activist in Saskatchewan who wanted to challenge the abortion provisions under section 287 of the Criminal Code as violations to right to life in the Canadian Bill of Rights.\n\nIn a seven to two decision the Court found that Borowski had standing to challenge the law.\n\nJustice Martland, wrote the decision for the majority. Martland's reasoning was largely based on the previous decision of \"Thorson v. Attorney General of Canada\", [1975] 1 S.C.R. 138. He stated that a plaintiff seeking a declaration to invalidate a law must show that they are directly affected by it, or have a genuine interest as a citizen and there be no reasonable and effective alternative means to challenge the law.\n\nBorowski was found to meet this requirement as it would be difficult to bring such an issue to court without having an interest group make a challenge.\n\nThe test was later re-articulated more narrowly in the decision of \"Canadian Council of Churches v. Canada (Minister of Employment and Immigration)\", [1992] 1 S.C.R. 236.\n\n"}
{"id": "23890663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23890663", "title": "Chrometa", "text": "Chrometa\n\nChrometa is a product of the software company Chrometa LLC, which is based in Sacramento, California. It is a Microsoft Windows and Mac OS X application designed for professionals that captures PC-based work time without user data entry. The product can also track time away from the PC through automated and manual timers and reminders. This approach is generally referred to as time capture.\n\nComparison of time-tracking software\n\n"}
{"id": "3519850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3519850", "title": "Conscience clause (medicine)", "text": "Conscience clause (medicine)\n\nConscience clauses are legal clauses attached to laws in some parts of the United States and other countries which permit pharmacists, physicians, and/or other providers of health care not to provide certain medical services for reasons of religion or conscience. In many cases, the clauses also permit health care providers to refuse to refer patients to unopposed providers. Those who choose not to refer or provide services may not be disciplined or discriminated against. The provision is most frequently enacted in connection with issues relating to reproduction, such as abortion, sterilization, contraception, and stem cell based treatments, but may include any phase of patient care.\n\nThe earliest national conscience clause law in the United States, which was enacted immediately following the Supreme Court's decision in \"Roe v. Wade\", applied only to abortion and sterilization. It was sponsored by Senator Frank Church of Idaho. The Church Amendment, passed by the Senate on a vote of 92-1, exempted private hospitals receiving federal funds under the Hill-Burton Act, Medicare and Medicaid from any requirement to provide abortions or sterilizations when they objected on “the basis of religious beliefs or moral convictions.” Nearly every state enacted similar legislation by the end of the decade—often with the support of legislators who otherwise supported abortion rights. Supreme Court Justice Harry Blackmun, the author of the Roe v. Wade majority opinion, endorsed such clauses “appropriate protection” for individual physicians and denominational hospital.\n\nConscience clauses have been adopted by a number of U.S. states. including Arkansas, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Mississippi, Pennsylvania, and South Dakota. There are some recent comprehensive reviews of federal and state conscience clause laws across the United States and in select other countries.\n\nAn informed consent clause, although allowing medical professionals not to perform procedures against their conscience, does not allow professionals to give fraudulent information to deter a patient from obtaining such a procedure (such as lying about the risks involved in an abortion to deter one from obtaining one) in order to impose one's belief using deception. These principles were reaffirmed in the Utah Supreme Court's decision in \"Wood v. University of Utah Medical Center\" (2002). Commenting on the case, bioethicist Jacob Appel of New York University wrote that \"if only a small number of physicians intentionally or negligently withhold information from their patients significant damage is done to the medical profession as a whole\" because \"pregnant women will no longer know whether to trust their doctors.\"\n\nThe Right of Conscience Rule was a set of protections for healthcare workers enacted by President George W. Bush on December 18, 2008, allowing healthcare workers to refuse care based on their personal beliefs. Specifically, the rule denied federal funding to institutions that did not allow workers to refuse care that went against their beliefs. In February 2011, President Barack Obama rescinded the Right of Conscience Rule.\n\nStates have historically provided a conscience clause right allowing pharmacists to refrain from participating in abortions. In April 2005, Governor Rod Blagojevich by emergency executive order required all pharmacists to provide Plan B levonorgestrel. In September 2012, the Illinois Appellate Court found the Governor’s order violated Illinois law.\n\nIn June 2006, the Pharmacy Board of the Washington State Department of Health rejected a draft rule proposed by Governor Christine Gregoire to require all pharmacies to begin carrying Plan B. Governor Gregoire responded by releasing a public statement warning the Board members to reconsider or they could be removed. In July 2006, the Washington State Human Rights Commission warned the Board members that they would be personally liable for illegally discriminating against women if they did not pass the Governor’s Plan B rule. In April 2007, the Board approved a final rule prohibiting pharmacies from not stocking Plan B for religious reasons but allowing exemptions for “good faith” business reasons.\n\nWhen Ralph’s Thriftway, a grocery store in Olympia, Washington, refused for religious reasons to carry Plan B, it was widely boycotted, leading Gregoire to cancel the grocer’s longstanding account with the Washington Governor's Mansion. The only complaints for violating the Plan B rule were filed against the grocer. Half of Washington’s hospitals are Catholic. The grocer sued but, instead of alleging violations of the broader Constitution of Washington, its attorneys at the Alliance Defending Freedom and the Becket Fund for Religious Liberty only filed under the Free Exercise Clause of the United States Constitution. The case is known as \"Stormans, Inc. v. Wiesman\".\n\nOn November 8, 2007, U.S. District Judge Ronald B. Leighton granted the grocer a preliminary injunction blocking the rule. On May 1, 2008, United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit Judges Thomas G. Nelson and Jay Bybee denied the state a stay of the injunction pending appeal, over a dissent by Judge A. Wallace Tashima. However, on July 8, 2009, Circuit Judge Kim McLane Wardlaw, joined by Richard Clifton and N. Randy Smith reversed the preliminary injunction.\n\nOn February 22, 2012, after four years of discovery and a twelve-day bench trial, Judge Leighton issued a permanent injunction blocking the Plan B rule as unconstitutional. On July 23, 2015, Circuit Judge Susan P. Graber, joined by Judges Mary H. Murguia and Richard Clifton reversed. The grocer’s petition for certiorari from the Supreme Court of the United States was denied on June 28, 2016. Justice Samuel Alito, joined by Chief Justice John Roberts and Justice Clarence Thomas, dissented, writing that “the rules challenged here reflect antipathy towards religious beliefs that do not accord with the views of those holding the levers of government power.”\n\nIn 2014 and 2016, Senator Cory Booker introduced the “Access to Birth Control Act” bill, which would require all pharmacists in the United States to provide emergency contraception.\n\nHealth care providers opposed to abortion or contraception support the clauses because they believe that disciplinary or legal action for refusing to perform services obliges providers to supply services which their moral or religious principles forbid.\n\nReproductive rights organizations, such as Planned Parenthood and NARAL Pro-Choice America, oppose the provision because they maintain that pharmacists, doctors, and hospitals have a professional duty to fulfill patients' legal medical needs, regardless of their own ethical stances. Opponents see conscience clauses as an attempt to limit reproductive rights in lieu of bans struck down by Supreme Court rulings such as \"Roe v. Wade\".\n\nAs a result, the term \"conscience clause\" is controversial and primarily used by those who support these provisions. Those who oppose them often prefer to use the term \"refusal clause,\" implying that those who exercise the clauses are refusing to treat a patient.\n\nThe conscience clause is widely invoked in Catholic universities, hospitals, and agencies because the Catholic Church opposes abortion, contraceptives, sterilization, and embryonic stem cell treatments. Opponents of related FOCA legislation have interpreted the possible end of the conscience clause as a demand to either \"do abortions or close.\" Archbishop Dolan has said, \"“In effect, the president is saying we have a year to figure out how to violate our consciences.\" However, conscience clauses are sometimes interpreted differently and their use will often depend on the given context.\n\nPublic health specialists have questioned whether \"conscience clauses\" are ethical, observing in an article on the danger to miscarrying patients created by hospital anti-abortion policies that \"in some Catholic-owned hospitals, the private patient–physician relationship, patient safety, and patient comfort are compromised by religious mandates that require physicians to act contrary to the current standard of care in miscarriage management.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39120190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39120190", "title": "Creative Sector Tax Relief", "text": "Creative Sector Tax Relief\n\nCreative Sector Tax Relief is a programme of tax incentives implemented in the United Kingdom in 2012 which encompass new incentives aimed at supporting the animation, high-end television and video games industries, in addition to the existing relief available for film production. The new reliefs are designed to promote culturally-relevant productions in the UK, to incentivise investment into UK productions that would otherwise take place outside the UK, and to support the necessary critical mass of infrastructure and skills in the UK for both today and in the longer term.\n\nThe government announced in the March 2012 Budget that it would introduce corporation tax reliefs from April 2013 for the video-games, animation and high-end television industries, subject to State aid approval and following consultation. These new reliefs were confirmed in Budget 2013 and the draft Finance Bill 2013.\nUp to this point, the creative industries had struggled to access existing technology tax relief because the qualifying definitions of schemes such as R&D Tax Relief have fallen outside the creative sectors, even though companies in these sectors are often pioneers in new and advanced technologies.\nThe reliefs will bring the UK’s creative sector tax regime into line with other countries such as Canada and Japan which already have specific tax reliefs for the creative industries.\n\nProduction companies in all three industries are able to claim an additional deduction worth 100 per cent of UK qualifying production expenditure (where qualifying expenditure is a maximum of 80 per cent of total production expenditure) and, if they are loss-making, they will be able to surrender such losses for a payable tax credit worth 25 per cent of UK qualifying production expenditure (ie. effectively a payable credit of a maximum 20 per cent of total production expenditure).\nThese reliefs are modelled on the existing film tax relief scheme, which has supported over £5 billion of investment into British films and seen a 70 per cent increase in the film production workforce since its introduction in 2007\n\nThe draft Finance Bill 2013 legislation allowed for qualifying expenditure incurred after 1 April 2013 to be eligible for the reliefs subject to State aid approval by the European Commission. The Commission approved the animation tax relief and high-end television production tax relief to start on 1 April 2013 once the regulations come into force with the Royal Assent of the 2013 Finance Act in August 2013. Video game tax relief was given State aid approval by the EU Commission in March 2014, meaning that it came into effect from 1 April 2014.\n\nThe steady state cost, after the initial phasing-in period, of the reliefs is forecast to be approximately £120 million per annum (£55 million for video game tax relief and animation tax relief, plus £65 million for high-end television production tax relief) in terms of corporation tax revenues foregone by HM Treasury. The estimated annual administrative cost for HMRC of running all three new creative industry tax relief regimes will be approximately £500,000). They will also set up a specialist unit to facilitate claims for animation and video game relief (but not high-end tv production).\n\nProductions must be certified by the Department for Culture, Media & Sport (DCMS) as culturally British in order to be eligible for relief, as per the existing Film Tax Relief.\n\nThe cultural tests for each relief were published in the draft Finance Bill 2013 .\n\nThe cultural tests will be handled by the British Film Institute on behalf of DCMS as follows:\n\n\nThe Enterprise Investment Scheme (EIS) and the Seed Enterprise Investment Scheme (SEIS) give generous income and capital gains tax-relief to individuals who invest in small early-stage businesses.\n\nThe government ran a public consultation exercise in summer 2012 on the proposals for Creative Sector Tax Reliefs. Respondents included industry participants (The Walt Disney Company; Channel 4; Electronic Arts; Aardman Animations) the financial services community including large accounting firms (PWC; Deloitte) and independent consultants (MMP Tax); and trade bodies such as The Independent Games Developers Association(TIGA).\n\nThe government also established industry-focused working groups for the animation, high-end television and video games industries to complement wider consultation on the new tax reliefs and to discuss options and proposals in more detail.\n\n"}
{"id": "25485557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25485557", "title": "Cyber Rights", "text": "Cyber Rights\n\nCyber Rights: Defending Free speech in the Digital Age is a non-fiction book about cyberlaw, written by free speech lawyer Mike Godwin. It was first published in 1998 by Times Books. It was republished in 2003 as a revised edition by The MIT Press. Godwin graduated from the University of Texas School of Law in 1990 and was the first staff counsel for the Electronic Frontier Foundation. Written with a first-person perspective, \"Cyber Rights\" offers a background in the legal issues and history pertaining to free speech on the Internet. It documents the author's experiences in defending free speech online, and puts forth the thesis that \"the remedy for the abuse of free speech is more speech\". Godwin emphasizes that decisions made about the expression of ideas on the Internet affect freedom of speech in other media as well, as granted by the First Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\nThe book was received favorably by \"Library Journal\", where it was \"Recommended for anyone concerned about expression on the Internet and democratic society.\" \"Publishers Weekly\" noted Godwin's \"unusually broad view of free speech\", and criticized the author for viewing issues \"filtered through rose-colored screens\". \"The Philadelphia Inquirer\" highlighted \"Cyber Rights\" among \"1998's Best Reading\".\n\nGodwin is a graduate of the University of Texas School of Law. At the time of the book's first publication, Godwin was employed as a staff counsel EFF. He had been hired as EFF's first staff counsel after graduating from law school in 1990. \"Law Library Journal\" noted, \"In this position, he worked on the frontlines of the fight to make sure that freedom of expression is more than tolerated, that in fact it is able to flourish in cyberspace.\"\n\n\"Cyber Rights\" is Godwin's first book. Godwin described himself as a civil libertarian. From 1997 to 1998, Godwin was a fellow of the Media Studies Center. In 2007, he took a research fellowship at Yale University. Godwin became general counsel for Wikimedia Foundation in July 2007.\n\n\"Cyber Rights\" analyzes the legal issues involved with communicating on the Internet, including those relating to Internet privacy and government involvement. The book is written with a first-person perspective: the reader learns of the author's morning ritual, the fact that his cat is named Francie and that he married a woman he met through a Bulletin Board System. Godwin's motivation was to keep the Internet safe from government actions that restrict freedom of speech. He asserts that the First Amendment to the United States Constitution should apply equally to the Internet as it does to other media.\n\nThe book's early chapters ground the reader in principles involving cyberspace and the law. The author provides enough background that a layperson can understand the relevant legal history, including explaining libel and the extent to which copyrighted text may be quoted and used under the fair use principle. Godwin explains his goal is \"to show that striking a balance in favor of individual rights has always been the right decision for us and that it remains so even when technology gives us new ways to exercise those rights. Individual liberty has never weakened us; freedom of speech, enhanced by the Net, will only make us stronger\". He instructs the reader on how to become proficient in dealing with mainstream news media, writing, \"Learn how to hack all the media. Then put that knowledge to good use\".\n\nSubsequent chapters consider traditional challenges to broad free speech in the online context, including: defamation, sexual harassment, copyright and issues involving privacy. He dismisses these issues as less important than freedom of speech. Godwin argues that individuals maintain latitude when communicating over the Internet because \"it's far more likely that they'll do good than otherwise. This is because freedom of speech is itself a good. The framers of the Constitution were right to give it special protection, because societies in which people can speak freely are better off than societies in which they can't\".\n\nThe author discusses influential legal cases including a judgment involving Compuserve, where the court ruled that the Internet service provider should be deemed similar to a bookstore avoiding liability for publishing potentially offensive speech. He recounts \"Steve Jackson Games, Inc. v. United States Secret Service\" which followed a raid by the United States Secret Service in 1990 on Steve Jackson Games and his involvement influencing the media relating to the incident. He cites the LaMacchia case, which dealt with charges of copyright infringement of software subsequently dismissed. An incident at Santa Rosa Junior College which involved issues of free speech and gender discrimination is discussed and analyzed in the book.\n\nGodwin analyzes the effects of a 1995 cover story \"Cyberporn\" in \"TIME\" magazine and writings by Martin Rimm that discussed the effect of Internet pornography. He explains how the theories presented in the article were discredited. Godwin calls the incident following the \"TIME\" article the \"cyber-porn panic\"; noting how the magazine published a cover story on a purported pornography \"study\" and how he and others exposed flaws in the piece.\n\nHe cites the Communications Decency Act of 1996 (CDA) as an example of U.S. government action which cramps free speech. Godwin describes the subsequent attempts to defeat CDA. The Supreme Court of the United States held two sections to be unconstitutional and Godwin recounts how he became emotional over the decision. Throughout the book Godwin emphasizes that \"the remedy for the abuse of free speech is more speech\". \"Cyber Rights\" puts forth the notion that \"virtual communities\" can be fostered on the Internet that serve the values of democracy, writing \"The decisions we make about the Internet don't affect just the Internet – they are answers to basic questions about the relationship each citizen has to the government and about the extent to which we trust one another with the full range of fundamental rights granted by the Constitution,\".\n\n\"Cyber Rights\" was reviewed favorably in \"Library Journal\", where it was described as \"a provocative discussion of the social and legal issues concerning computer online communications\". The review noted that Godwin, \"provides an excellent background to the governmental and privacy dimensions of the Internet, using anecdotal accounts to illustrate web-related legal issues.\" \"Library Journal\" concluded, \"Recommended for anyone concerned about expression on the Internet and democratic society.\" \"Booklist\" observed, \"He wants us to understand that the principles upon which this country is founded are unquestionably worth the risk. He passionately defends, in clear, one-two-three soundbites, the online freedom he wants his daughter to inherit, and he insists that his readers untangle the meanings behind the use of words such as indecency and pornography to frighten and to confuse.\" \"Booklist\" recommended \"Cyber Rights\" be carried in libraries, concluding, \"Most libraries will want copies for both circulating and professional collections.\"\n\n\"Cyber Rights\" received a positive review in \"Salon\", which noted, \"Readers of 'Cyber Rights' will range from those who have never heard of Mike Godwin to those who have tangoed with him online at some point or have at least lurked silently as the debate raged. Whatever the number in the first category, those falling into the second are legion. Godwin has been online so long he's had a celebrated law that predicts the course of online discussions named after him.\" The review observed, \"Throughout 'Cyber Rights,' it becomes clear that what makes Godwin a sometimes unpleasant online sparring partner is precisely what has catapulted him to the front lines in the seemingly endless battles for free speech on the Net. ... his tenacity and his insistence on wrestling every last breath out of his opponents' arguments.\" \"Salon\" characterized the book as, \"an instructional book with an argument to convey – a sort of cross between a dry, textbookish primer and a lively personal history.\"\n\n\"Columbia Journalism Review\" gave the book a favorable review, noting, \"This is a lively, garrulous account by an activist who was deeply involved in turning back the threat of regulation and, at least for the time being, securing rights of free expression online.\" The review described the latter portion of the book as \"a more intense personal chronicle of Godwin's deep involvement in what he calls the 'cyberporn panic' – the push to control Internet content.\" \"Columbia Journalism Review\" concluded, \"Ultimately, Godwin shows, this strong response laid the groundwork for lawsuits that enabled the Supreme Court to declare the 'decency' amendment unconstitutional. He was in the thick of things throughout this effort, and his journal lets the reader relive the tension and uncertainty of trying to halt a media stampede before it crushed everything in its path.\"\n\n\"School Library Journal\" recommended the book for young readers, and commented, \"Teens growing up with the Net aren't likely to find a better roadmap to the issues affecting their First Amendment future there than this book.\" \"The New York Times Book Review\" was critical of Godwin's writing style in the book, and observed, \"He writes in a strong, piercing voice that probably does wonders in a courtroom, but comes off increasingly shrill over several hundred pages of commentary, and at one point fairly warns his reader, 'Subtlety isn't my strong point.'\" The \"Journal of Information Ethics\" wrote, \"This is less an analytic study than a personal survey of situations or occurrences articulated in an informal, colloquial, and anecdotal fashion. It is not aimed at the intelligentsia or legal profession, although members of these groups would certainly benefit from the details.\" The review concluded, \"The details are sometimes overwhelming, but for those who wish to know everything, this is a good place to start.\"\n\n\"The Philadelphia Inquirer\" highlighted \"Cyber Rights\" among \"1998's Best Reading\", and concluded, \"Often reads, as Godwin intends, as a handbook for free-speech activism\". A review in the \"San Antonio Express-News\" concluded, \"'Cyber Rights' is an extremely important book, one that anyone who accesses the Internet should read. Those who support the causes Godwin fights against aren't going to be happy with it, because he pokes some big holes in their arguments. But one of the bedrock freedoms we all enjoy is freedom of speech, and Godwin makes an elegant defense in its behalf.\" \"The Dallas Morning News\" characterized the book as a multifacted legal instructive work, and commented, \"Part philosophical musings, part legal primer, part history and part political analysis, the book touches on just about every facet of how the Internet is transforming free-speech issues.\" The \"Houston Chronicle\" wrote, \"Godwin makes a passionate case for ensuring the online world has the same civil rights as the 'real' world.\" Writing in the book \"Internet and the Law\", author Aaron Schwabach comments, \"The book takes an anticensorship position, but it presents all sides of the various questions fairly and completely.\"\n\n\"CommLaw Conspectus\" of The Catholic University of America noted, \"\"Cyber Rights\" brims with anecdotes and behind-the-scenes looks at the people and organizations struggling with the [reality] and potential of the information superhighway.\" A review of the book in \"The Green Bag\" concluded, \"Overall, Godwin seems to be preaching to the choir, rather than making legal arguments to win over converts. Lower publication costs do increase the possibility of publication, but, standing alone, may not justify replacing the legal regimes developed over time to regulate expression – legal regimes which, for the most part, have endured through previous revolutions in the technology of disseminating information. Theology, which calls on faith, and economics, which calls on reason and empiricism, may not be compatible. But the Internet is about a shift in the economics of expression, not a theological revolution in how the First Amendment affects society, and when the project is getting the legal prescriptions right, all of the implications must be taken seriously.\"\n\n\"Publishers Weekly\" commented that in the book Godwin put forth \"an unusually broad view of free speech\". The review noted that by citing noteworthy legal cases affecting free speech online, \"he frames nicely some of the issues raised by the encounter of the 200-year-old Bill of Rights and the cutting-edge Internet.\" \"Publishers Weekly\" wrote that by the end of the book, \"his arguments have become predictable – or flimsy, as when he implies that the Net poses no new risks with its dissemination of dangerous information, such as bomb-making instructions, because libraries have carried such information for years.\" The review concluded, \"Godwin's book is a thoughtful examination of an important subject, but its thoughts seem too often filtered through rose-colored screens.\"\n\nIn a review of the revised and updated 2003 edition of the book, \"Law Library Journal\" wrote, \"\"Cyber Rights: Defending Free Speech in the Digital Age\" is a book that can help the uninitiated become familiar with the issues and arguments that have shaped the debate over regulating cyberspace.\" The review noted, \"\"Cyber Rights\" was inspired by Godwin's unwavering belief that an uncensored Internet can transform society into a true democracy. It is an exceptionally personal work and resembles an online journal. ... The book, written in the first person, has a casual and conversational style. As the reader is able to 'hear' the author's voice, \"Cyber Rights\" is extremely easy to read.\" \"Law Library Journal\" criticized the book for being repetitive, and for dismissing arguments of his opponents as \"an irrational fear of the unknown (i.e., cyberspace) or as a poor understanding of case law or the Framers' intent\". The review acknowledged, \"\"Cyber Rights\" is a good introduction to the world of cyberspace and the legal issues that affect the Internet. It presents, in a readable style, a passionate perspective on an emerging area of law.\" \"Law Library Journal\" recommended the book for \"large academic law libraries\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13307577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13307577", "title": "Data breach", "text": "Data breach\n\nA data breach is the intentional or unintentional release of secure or private/confidential information to an untrusted environment. Other terms for this phenomenon include unintentional information disclosure, data leak and also data spill. Incidents range from concerted attacks by black hats associated with organized crime, political activist or national governments to careless disposal of used computer equipment or data storage media and unhackable source.\n\nDefinition: \"A data breach is a security incident in which sensitive, protected or confidential data is copied, transmitted, viewed, stolen or used by an individual unauthorized to do so.\"\nData breaches may involve financial information such as credit card or bank details, personal health information (PHI), Personally identifiable information (PII), trade secrets of corporations or intellectual property. Most data breaches involve overexposed and vulnerable unstructured data – files, documents, and sensitive information.\n\nAccording to the nonprofit consumer organization Privacy Rights Clearinghouse, a total of 227,052,199 individual records containing sensitive personal information were involved in security breaches in the United States between January 2005 and May 2008, excluding incidents where sensitive data was apparently not actually exposed.\n\nMany jurisdictions have passed data breach notification laws, requiring a company that has been subject to a data breach to inform customers and takes other steps to remediate possible injuries.\n\nThis may include incidents such as theft or loss of digital media such as computer tapes, hard drives, or laptop computers containing such media upon which such information is stored unencrypted, posting such information on the world wide web or on a computer otherwise accessible from the Internet without proper information security precautions, transfer of such information to a system which is not completely open but is not appropriately or formally accredited for security at the approved level, such as unencrypted e-mail, or transfer of such information to the information systems of a possibly hostile agency, such as a competing corporation or a foreign nation, where it may be exposed to more intensive decryption techniques.\n\nISO/IEC 27040 defines a data breach as: \"compromise of security that leads to the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorized disclosure of, or access to protected data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed\".\n\nThe notion of a trusted environment is somewhat fluid. The departure of a trusted staff member with access to sensitive information can become a data breach if the staff member retains access to the data after termination of the trust relationship. In distributed systems, this can also occur with a breakdown in a web of trust. Data quality is one way of reducing the risk of a data breach, partly because it allows the owner of the data to rate data according to importance and give better protection to more important data.\n\nMost such incidents publicized in the media involve private information on individuals, e.g. social security numbers. Loss of corporate information such as trade secrets, sensitive corporate information, and details of contracts, or of government information is frequently unreported, as there is no compelling reason to do so in the absence of potential damage to private citizens, and the publicity around such an event may be more damaging than the loss of the data itself.\n\nThose working inside an organization are a major cause of data breaches. Estimates of breaches caused by accidental \"human factor\" errors range from 37% by Ponemon Institute to 14% by the Verizon 2013 Data Breach Investigations Report. The external threat category includes hackers, cybercriminal organizations and state-sponsored actors. Professional associations for IT asset managers work aggressively with IT professionals to educate them on best risk-reduction practices for both internal and external threats to IT assets, software and information. While security prevention may deflect a high percentage of attempts, ultimately a motivated attacker will likely find a way into any given network. One of the top 10 quotes from Cisco CEO John Chambers is, \"There are two types of companies: those that have been hacked, and those that don't know they have been hacked.\" FBI Special Agent for Cyber Special Operations Leo Taddeo warned on Bloomberg television, \"The notion that you can protect your perimeter is falling by the wayside & detection is now critical.\"\n\nSome celebrities have found themselves to be the victims of inappropriate medical record access breaches, albeit more so on an individual basis, not part of a typically much larger breach. Given the series of medical data breaches and the lack of public trust, some countries have requiring safeguards to be put in place to protect the security and confidentiality of medical information as it is shared electronically and to give patients some important rights to monitor their medical records and receive notification for loss and unauthorized acquisition of health information. The United States and the EU have imposed mandatory medical data breach notifications.\nAlthough such incidents pose the risk of identity theft or other serious consequences, in most cases there is no lasting damage; either the breach in security is remedied before the information is accessed by unscrupulous people, or the thief is only interested in the hardware stolen, not the data it contains. Nevertheless, when such incidents become publicly known, it is customary for the offending party to attempt to mitigate damages by providing to the victim's subscription to a credit reporting agency, for instance, new credit cards, or other instruments. In the case of Target, the 2013 breach cost Target a significant drop in profit, which dove an estimated 40 percent in the 4th quarter of the year. At the end of 2015, Target published a report claiming a total loss of $290 million to data breach related fees. \n\nThe Yahoo breach disclosed in 2016 may be one of the most expensive today. It may lower the price of its acquisition by Verizon by $1 billion. Verizon later released there renegotiation to Yahoo agreeing to lower the final price from $4.8 to $4.48 billion. Cybercrime cost energy and utilities companies an average of $12.8 million each year in lost business and damaged equipment according to DNV GL, an international certification body and classification society based in Norway. Data breaches cost healthcare organizations $6.2 billion in the last two years (presumably 2014 and 2015), according to a Ponemon study.\n\nIt is notoriously difficult to obtain information on direct and indirect value loss resulting from a data breach. A common approach to assess the impact of data breaches is to study the market reaction to such an incident as proxy for the economic consequences. This is typically conducted through the use of event studies, where a measure of the event’s economic impact can be constructed by using the security prices observed over a relatively short period of time. Several studies such studies have been published with varying findings, including works by Kannan, Rees, and Sridhar (2007), Cavusoglu, Mishra, and Raghunathan (2004), Campbell, Gordon, Loeb, and Lei (2003) as well as Schatz and Bashroush (2017).\n\nNotable incidents include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6203", "title": "Environmental Modification Convention", "text": "Environmental Modification Convention\n\nThe Environmental Modification Convention (ENMOD), formally the Convention on the Prohibition of Military or Any Other Hostile Use of Environmental Modification Techniques is an international treaty prohibiting the military or other hostile use of environmental modification techniques having widespread, long-lasting or severe effects. It opened for signature on 18 May 1977 in Geneva and entered into force on 5 October 1978.\n\nThe Convention bans weather warfare, which is the use of weather modification techniques for the purposes of inducing damage or destruction. The Convention on Biological Diversity of 2010 would also ban some forms of weather modification or geoengineering.\n\nMany states do not regard this as a complete ban on the use of herbicides in warfare, such as Agent Orange, but it does require case-by-case consideration.\n\nThe Convention was signed by 48 states; 16 of the signatories have not ratified. As of January 2018, the Convention has 78 state parties.\n\nThe problem of artificial modification of the environment for military or other hostile purposes was brought to the international agenda in the early 1970s. Following the US decision of July 1972 to renounce the use of climate modification techniques for hostile purposes, the 1973 resolution by the US Senate calling for an international agreement \"prohibiting the use of any environmental or geophysical modification activity as a weapon of war\", and an in-depth review by the Department of Defense of the military aspects of weather and other environmental modification techniques, US decided to seek agreement with the Soviet Union to explore the possibilities of an international agreement.\n\nIn July 1974, US and USSR agreed to hold bilateral discussions on measures to overcome the danger of the use of environmental modification techniques for military purposes and three subsequent rounds of discussions in 1974 and 1975. In August 1975, US and USSR tabled identical draft texts of a convention at the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament (CCD), Conference on Disarmament, where intensive negotiations resulted in a modified text and understandings regarding four articles of this Convention in 1976.\n\nThe Convention was approved by Resolution 31/72 of the General Assembly of the United Nations on 10 December 1976, by 96 to 8 votes with 30 abstentions.\n\nEnvironmental Modification Technique includes any technique for changing – through the deliberate manipulation of natural processes – the dynamics, composition or structure of the earth, including its biota, lithosphere, hydrosphere and atmosphere, or of outer space.\n\nThe Convention contains ten articles and one Annex on the Consultative Committee of Experts. Integral part of the Convention are also the Understandings relating to articles I, II, III and VIII. These Understandings are not incorporated into the Convention but are part of the negotiating record and were included in the report transmitted by the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament to the United Nations General Assembly in September 1976 Report of the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament, Volume I, General Assembly Official records: Thirty-first session, Supplement No. 27 (A/31/27), New York, United Nations, 1976, pp. 91–92.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18622970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18622970", "title": "Federal Tort Claims Act", "text": "Federal Tort Claims Act\n\nThe Federal Tort Claims Act (August 2, 1946, ch.646, Title IV, , and ) (\"FTCA\") is a 1946 federal statute that permits private parties to sue the United States in a federal court for most torts committed by persons acting on behalf of the United States. Historically, citizens have not been able to sue their state—a doctrine referred to as sovereign immunity. The FTCA constitutes a limited waiver of sovereign immunity, permitting citizens to pursue some tort claims against the government.\n\nUnder the FTCA, \"[t]he United States [is] liable . . . in the same manner and to the same extent as a private individual under like circumstances, but [is not] liable for interest prior to judgment or for punitive damages.\" . Federal courts have jurisdiction over such claims, but apply the law of the State \"where the act or omission occurred.\" (b). Thus, both federal and State law may impose limitations on liability. The FTCA exempts, among other things, claims based upon the performance, or failure to perform a \"discretionary function or duty.\" The FTCA also exempts a number of intentional torts. However, the FTCA does not exempt intentional torts committed by \"investigative or law enforcement officers,\" thus allowing individuals aggrieved by the actions of law enforcement officers to have their day in court. The Supreme Court affirmed this so-called \"law enforcement proviso\" in \"Millbrook v. United States\", where a federal prisoner was allowed to bring a claim against the United States for intentional torts committed by federal prison guards in the scope of their employment. Under the FTCA, a tort claim against the United States must be presented in writing to the appropriate federal agency within two years after the claim accrues, or it is time-barred. 28 U.S.C. § 2401(b).\n\nThe Supreme Court of the United States has limited the application of the FTCA in cases involving the military. This is the \"Feres\" doctrine.\n\nFTCA is the \"exclusive means by which a party may sue the United States for money damages . . . in tort\" (28 USC § 2679. Exclusiveness of remedy). Accordingly, an FTCA action \"can be brought only in a United States District Court\" (28 USC § 1346(b)). Regarding the timing of filing, FTCA's § 2401(b) states that the action must be brought \"within two years after the claim accrues,\" or \"within six months after . . . notice of final denial of the claim by the agency . . . .\"\n\nIn addition, under the FTCA, \"Liability is determinable in accordance with the law of the place where the act or omission occurred\" (§1346(b)(1)).\n\nThe \"Federal Tort Claims Act\" was also previously the official short title passed by the Seventy-ninth Congress on August 2, 1946 as Title IV of the \"Legislative Reorganization Act\", 60 Stat. 842, which was classified principally to chapter 20 (§§ 921, 922, 931–934, 941–946) of \"former\" Title 28, \"Judicial Code and Judiciary\".\n\nThat Title IV of the \"Legislative Reorganization Act\" act of August 2, 1946 was substantially repealed and reenacted as sections 1346 (b) and 2671 et seq. of this title by act June 25, 1948, ch. 646, 62 Stat. 982, the first section of which enacted this title (Tort Claims Procedure).\n\nThe Act was passed following the 1945 B-25 Empire State Building crash, where a bomber piloted in thick fog by Lieutenant Colonel William F. Smith, Jr. crashed into the north side of the Empire State Building. As NPR reported, \"Eight months after the crash, the U.S. government offered money to families of the victims. Some accepted, but others initiated a lawsuit that resulted in landmark legislation. The Federal Tort Claims Act of 1946, for the first time, gave American citizens the right to sue the federal government.\" Although the crash was not the initial catalyst for the bill, which had been pending in Congress for more than two decades, the statute was made retroactive to 1945 in order to allow victims of that crash to seek recovery.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12682317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12682317", "title": "Geek show", "text": "Geek show\n\nGeek shows were an act in traveling carnivals and circuses of early America and were often part of a larger sideshow.\n\nThe billed performer's act consisted of a single geek, who stood in center ring to chase live chickens. It ended with the performer biting the chickens' heads off and swallowing them. The geek shows were often used as openers for what are commonly known as freak shows. It was a matter of pride among circus and carnival professionals not to have traveled with a troupe that included geeks. Geeks were often alcoholics or drug addicts, and paid with liquor – especially during Prohibition – or with narcotics.\n\nThe Online Etymology Dictionary gives the following for \"geek\":\nIn modern usage, the term \"geek show\" is often applied to situations where an audience is drawn to a performance or show where the performance consists of a horrific act that is found distasteful but ultimately entertaining by masses. It may also be used by a single person in reference to an experience which he or she found humiliating but others found entertaining. It is used in derision.\n\n\"Freaks\" (1932) is a horror film with a long history of controversy because it used real carnival performers. In its original release, it became the only M-G-M film ever to be pulled from cinemas before completing its domestic engagements. \n\nIn the film noir classic \"Nightmare Alley\" (1947), based on the novel by William Lindsay Gresham, Tyrone Power plays a sideshow barker in a seedy carnival which includes a geek biting the heads off live chickens. Power's character later succeeds as a charlatan mentalist, but then descends into alcoholism and is reduced to falsely portraying a geek as a means of survival in another sideshow. In one of Gresham's non-fiction books, Monster Midway, he details the process of making an alcoholic or a drug addict perform a geek act in exchange for a fix.\n\nThe artist Joe Coleman bit the heads off white rats as part of his stage act as Doctor Momboozo in the 1980s. He primarily did a 'Human Bomb' show, self-detonating at the end, but also performed with the rodents for his turn as a geek.\n\nThe 1990 Troma film \"Luther the Geek\" revolves around a geek named Luther, who eventually becomes a murderer who bites the heads off his victims.\n\nA geek show figures in the Katherine Dunn novel \"Geek Love\" (1989). Crystal Lil, the debutante mother of the freaks, met their father while performing as a geek during her summer break from university. Aloysius, the proprietor of the traveling circus, comments that college boys often toured as geeks during their summer breaks, but at the sight of the lovely Crystal Lil and her eagerness they made an exception. During a recounting of her time as a geek, Crystal remarks on how damaged her teeth were from biting the heads off chickens.\n\nIn the 1998 \"Simpsons\" episode \"Bart Carny\", Homer and Bart are asked to perform in a geek show to pay off a debt: \"You just bite the heads off the chickens and take a bow\".\n\nBob Dylan's \"Ballad of a Thin Man\", from the 1965 album \"Highway 61 Revisited\", makes a reference to the geek. It is directed at the 'straight' Mr Jones, who is unable to come to terms with the counter culture youth revolution around him:\n\nIn the 1995 \"X-Files\" episode \"Humbug\", real-life sideshow performer The Enigma portrays a mostly-mute geek named \"The Conundrum.\" True to geek form, his willingness to eat anything plays a crucial role in resolving the episode's plot.\n\nIn \"Marvel Noir\", Norman Osborn has his henchmen all employed from various sideshow attractions. Adrian Toomes was a former Geek, and seems to have lost all conscience, as he devoured Ben Parker.\n\nIn the film \"The Wizard of Gore\" there is a show that opens with \"The Geek\" (played by Jeffrey Combs) eating maggots and then biting the head off a rat.\n\nIn the first two episodes of \"\", there is a geek named Meep (played by Ben Woolf) who performs in the Freak Show biting heads off of baby chickens. He is eventually wrongfully arrested and murdered by the other inmates in prison.\n\nIn HBO's \"Carnivàle\", Ben Hawkins' father, Henry Scudder, deserted the French Foreign Legion and fled to America where he eventually succumbed to alcoholism and worked as a sideshow geek at Hyde and Teller's carnival.\n\n"}
{"id": "35825658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35825658", "title": "Green building in Bangladesh", "text": "Green building in Bangladesh\n\nBangladesh is one of the most vulnerable nations in the world due to climate change. As the ninth most populous country and twelfth most densely populated countries in the world, its rising population and limited land space have put tremendous strains on the urban ecosystem. The capital of Dhaka itself underwent severe transformations in recent years to catch up the increased rate of urbanisation. This change was paralleled by a boom in the real estate, construction and housing industry. According to United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), Dhaka is one of the most polluted cities in the world.\n\nUnified measures have been adopted from the national community in an effort to avoid further man made calamities due to climate change and higher emissions. There are six main sectors most likely to be affected by climate change in Bangladesh – water resources and coastal zones, infrastructure and human settlements, agriculture and food security, forestry and biodiversity, fisheries, and human health. Deforestation has resulted in several man made disasters in the country's history. Green buildings assure efficient usage of water and energy and the nation is struggling in the production of electricity and suffering from a shortage of water.\n\nThe first green building in Bangladesh was by EPIC group in May 2011. Since 2008, Sustainable Built Environment Initiative – Bangladesh (later Bangladesh Green Building Council) founder, Sanwar Azam had worked to unify the stake holders towards a greener country, saying that with growing population in a diminishing land and rapid urbanisation to major cities, 'Going green' had become a marketing ploy for various organisations as there were no quantifiable way to judge a structures sustainability. He offered a centralised board to offer Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certifications to interested projects and firms. In addition, he proposed a similar voluntary building rating tool that is much cheaper to attain and one that is much suited to the socio-economic conditions of the country and relevant to its building environment and construction culture.\n\nAzam also stressed the need for educational programs in sustainable designs and various universities in Bangladesh planned to promote Green Building principles in their curriculum, such as in the Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology, American International University-Bangladesh, North South University, BRAC University and Asia Pacific University. Dr. Saleh Uddin was the Events and Education Committee of Bangladesh Green Building Council. Citing that in cramped environment, such buildings and structures would be far more comfortable and satisfying but most importantly directly address some national issues, like conserving water and energy. The Government of Bangladesh in 2009 stopped giving connections to newly constructed buildings meaning that new homes would not have access to energy, and even water due to shortages. Experts agreed that a rating tool would not only facilitate government incentives to sustainable communities but achieve the six-point goals of the by the World Bank as well as the Renewable Energy Policy of 2008 by the Ministry of Power and Energy.\n\nIn an event with Architecture and construction experts, he urged for a national need for sustainable development in the nation's growing building industry and brought a forum together to act as the national GBC of Bangladesh. He stressed reductions of carbon emissions from buildings. National and international energy companies like Energpac and Siemens attended the event to assess the roles of the corporate stakeholders while United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) fellows commented on the global imperative of such an initiative. The first proposed rating tool aimed to fulfill the from the United Nations' Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), as for the first time the council provided support for green building certifications. Initially with minimal government support, the plan was to transform the market with cost effective steps. In another interview with \"The Independent\", Sanwar said \"there is a great misconception regarding the cost effectiveness of the green design and construction,\" and that increased productivity and energy savings of a green building outweighs initial costs. About the feasibility of widespread utilisation of LEED certifications, he said that it is very expensive and the Bangladesh is in the process of developing a green building rating system in the regional context. These activities were also promoted by national and region experts. Prominent national award winning architects such as Mustapha Khalid Palash, the 2010 Holcim Green Built Sustainable Design Competition winner was the Chairman of the Practicing Professionals Committee, and Rafiq Azam, defined BGBC platform as a way for Bangladesh to define 'Green' according to the national circumstances. The Institute of Architects Bangladesh, which works with different government organisation to offer education and government advocacy commented on the adaptability of sustainable principles in the national architecture community in the form of the BGBC rating tool.\n\nIn 2011, BGBC founder pointed out that such green building standards and tools will lead to conservation as buildings would less consumption of electricity and water, and also 'the need for reduction of carbon emissions' in the current building and construction scenario. At the same meeting, the Additional Chief Architect of the Ministry of Housing and Public Works, Bangladesh spoke about the government's role. By 2012, the Ministry of Public Works began working with the World Bank to study energy and water efficiency and emissions reductions through Green Building Codes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32369315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32369315", "title": "Guatemalan constitutional referendum, 1999", "text": "Guatemalan constitutional referendum, 1999\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Guatemala on 16 May 1999. It featured four questions; one on defining the nation and social rights (including those of the indigenous population, workers, military service and an expansion of the social security system) one on reforming Congress, one on reforming the executive (including redefining the role of the military) and one on reforming the judiciary. All four were rejected by voters, although turnout was just 18.6%.\n"}
{"id": "42195854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42195854", "title": "HTTP 451", "text": "HTTP 451\n\nIn computer networking, HTTP 451 Unavailable For Legal Reasons is an error status code of the HTTP protocol to be displayed when the user requests a resource which cannot be served for legal reasons, such as a web page censored by a government. The number 451 is a reference to Ray Bradbury's 1953 dystopian novel \"Fahrenheit 451\", in which books are outlawed. 451 could be described as a more explanatory variant of 403 Forbidden.\nThis status code is standardized in RFC 7725.\n\nExamples of situations where an HTTP 451 error code could be displayed include web pages deemed a danger to national security, or web pages deemed to violate copyright, privacy, blasphemy laws, or any other law or court order.\n\nThe RFC is specific that a 451 response does not indicate whether the resource exists but requests for it have been blocked, if the resource has been removed for legal reasons and no longer exists, or even if the resource has never existed, but any discussion of its topic has been legally forbidden (see superinjunction). Some sites have previously returned HTTP 404 (Not Found) or similar if they are not legally permitted to disclose that the resource has been removed. Such a tactic is used in the United Kingdom by some internet service providers utilising the Internet Watch Foundation blacklist, returning a 404 message or another error message instead of showing a message indicating the site is blocked.\n\nThe status code was formally proposed in 2013 by Tim Bray, following earlier informal proposals by Chris Applegate in 2008 and Terence Eden in 2012. It was approved by the IESG on December 18, 2015. It was published as RFC 7725 in February 2016.\n\nHTTP 451 was mentioned by the BBC's \"From Our Own Correspondent\" program, as an indication of the effects of sanctions on Sudan and the inability to access Airbnb, iOS's App Store, or other Western web services.\n\nAfter introduction of the GDPR in European Economic Area (EEA) many websites located outside EEA started to serve HTTP 451 instead of taking measures to comply with this new privacy law.\n\nWhen an entity blocks access to a resource and returns status 451, it should include a \"Link\" HTTP header field whose value is a URI reference identifying itself. When used for this purpose, the \"Link\" header field must have a \"rel\" parameter whose value is \"blocked-by\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39279960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39279960", "title": "Information Sources in Law", "text": "Information Sources in Law\n\nInformation Sources in Law is a book.\n\nThe first edition was edited by R G Logan and published by Butterworths in 1986. It is part of the series which was then known as Butterworths Guides to Information Sources. It consists of twenty-three chapters attributed to twenty contributors. The subject-matter of these chapters ranges from the general to the specialized. A book on legal research describes \"Information Sources in Law\" as being \"not as useful for present purposes\" as the title promises. \"Information Sources in Law\" is \"detailed\" and its contributors are \"leading experts\".\n\nThe second edition was edited by Jules Winterton and Elizabeth M Moys and published by Bowker-Saur in 1997. The series of which it was part was now known as Guides to Information Sources. It is \"completely revised\". It focuses on Europe, and deals with more than thirty of its jurisdictions.\n\n"}
{"id": "4039177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4039177", "title": "Judges of the African Court on Human and Peoples' Rights", "text": "Judges of the African Court on Human and Peoples' Rights\n\nThe first Judges of the African Court on Human and Peoples' Rights were elected on January 22, 2006 at the Eighth Ordinary Session of the Executive Council of the African Union, held in Khartoum, Sudan. The judges, hailing from 11 of the 53 member states of the African Union, are from varying backgrounds of judicial experience and knowledge of international and human rights law.\n\nEach judge serves for a six-year term, and can be re-elected once. The President and Vice-President are elected to two-year terms and can only be re-elected once.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12704461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12704461", "title": "Kolender v. Lawson", "text": "Kolender v. Lawson\n\nKolender v. Lawson, 461 U.S. 352 (1983), is a United States Supreme Court case concerning the constitutionality of laws that allow police to demand that \"loiterers\" and \"wanderers\" provide identification.\n\nEdward Lawson was a law-abiding black man with suitable knowledge of the U.S. Constitution. Lawson was frequently subjected to police questioning and harassment in San Diego County, California, where he lived when as a pedestrian he walked in so-called \"white neighborhoods.\" He was detained or arrested approximately 15 times by the San Diego Police within 18 months, was prosecuted twice, and was convicted once (the second charge was dismissed).\n\nLawson challenged California Penal Code §647(e),\nwhich required persons who loiter or wander on the streets to identify themselves and account for their presence when requested by a peace officer to do so.\nA California appellate court, in \"People v. Solomon\" (1973), 33 Cal. App.3d 429, had construed the law to require \"credible and reliable\" identification that carries a \"reasonable assurance\" of its authenticity.\n\nWilliam Kolender was an appellant who was acting in his capacity as Chief of Police of San Diego, as was John Duffy who was acting in his capacity as Sheriff of San Diego County.\n\nThe Ninth Circuit, in \"Lawson v. Kolender\", 658 F.2d 1362 (1981), had additionally held that Penal Code §647(e) violated the Fourth Amendment’s prohibition of unreasonable searches and seizures because it \"subverts the probable cause requirement\" by authorizing arrest for conduct that is no more than suspicious. \"Vagrancy statutes cannot turn otherwise innocent conduct into a crime.\" Id. at 1367.\n\nThe Ninth Circuit also noted that \"police knowledge of the identity of an individual they have deemed ‘suspicious’ grants the police unfettered discretion to initiate or continue the investigation of the person long after the detention has ended. Information concerning the stop, the arrest and the individual’s identity may become part of a large scale data bank.\" Id. at 1368.\n\nLawson represented himself up through the conclusion of the Federal Ninth Circuit Court appeal. He was told he could not represent himself before the Supreme Court without a law degree, so he had an ACLU lawyer represent him before the Court.\n\nUsing the construction of the California appellate court in \"Solomon\", the Court held that the law was unconstitutionally vague because it gave excessive discretion to the police (in the absence of probable cause to arrest) whether to stop and interrogate a suspect or leave him alone.\nThe Court hinted that the California statute compromised the constitutional right to freedom of movement.\n\nBecause the U.S. Supreme Court was able to resolve \"Kolender\" on the issue of vagueness, they did not decide the Fourth Amendment issue.\n\n\"Kolender\" was cited in \"Hiibel v. Sixth Judicial District Court of Nevada\", , as an example of a \"stop and identify\" statute the Court had voided on vagueness grounds. In \"Hiibel\", the Court held that a Nevada law\nrequiring persons detained upon reasonable suspicion of involvement in a crime to identify themselves to a peace officer did not violate the Fourth Amendment’s prohibition of unreasonable searches and seizures or the Fifth Amendment’s privilege against self incrimination. Unlike California Penal Code §647(e) as construed in \"Solomon\", the Nevada statute was apparently interpreted by the Nevada Supreme Court as requiring only that persons detained state their names.\n\nCalifornia Penal Code §647(e) was repealed in 2008 at the request of the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "841967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=841967", "title": "Liberal conservatism", "text": "Liberal conservatism\n\nLiberal conservatism is a political ideology combining conservative policies with liberal stances, especially on ethical and social issues, or a brand of political conservatism strongly influenced by liberalism.\n\nLiberal conservatism incorporates the classical liberal view of minimal government intervention in the economy, according to which individuals should be free to participate in the market and generate wealth without government interference. However, individuals cannot be thoroughly depended on to act responsibly in other spheres of life, therefore liberal conservatives believe that a strong state is necessary to ensure law and order and social institutions are needed to nurture a sense of duty and responsibility to the nation. It is a political position which also supports civil liberties along with some social conservative positions and is usually regarded as a centre-right ideology. In western Europe, especially northern Europe, liberal conservatism is the dominant form of contemporary conservatism and has also adopted some socially liberal positions.\n\nAs both \"conservatism\" and \"liberalism\" have had different meanings over time and across countries, the term \"liberal conservatism\" has been used in quite different ways. It usually contrasts with aristocratic conservatism, which rejects the principle of equality as something in discordance with human nature and emphasizes instead the idea of natural inequality. As conservatives in democratic countries have embraced typical liberal institutions such as the rule of law, private property, the market economy and constitutional representative government, the liberal element of liberal conservatism became consensual among conservatives. In some countries (e.g. the United Kingdom and the United States), the term \"liberal conservatism\" came to be understood simply as \"conservatism\" in popular culture, prompting some conservatives who embraced more strongly classical liberal values to call themselves \"libertarians\" instead.\n\nNevertheless, in the United States conservatives often combine the economic individualism of classical liberals with a Burkean form of conservatism that emphasizes the natural inequalities between men, the irrationality of human behavior as the basis for the human drive for order and stability and the rejection of natural rights as the basis for government. However, from a different perspective, American conservatism (a \"hybrid of conservatism and classical liberalism\") has exalted three tenets of Burkean conservatism, namely the diffidence toward the power of the state, the preference of liberty over equality, and patriotism while rejecting the three remaining tenets, namely loyalty to traditional institutions and hierarchies, scepticism regarding progress and elitism. Consequently, in the United States the term \"liberal conservatism\" is not used. American \"modern liberalism\" happens to be quite different from the European brand and occupies the centre-left of the political spectrum, in contrast to many European countries where liberalism is often more associated with the centre-right and social democracy makes up a substantial part of the centre-left. The opposite is true in Latin America, where economically liberal conservatism is often labelled under the rubric of neoliberalism both in popular culture and academic discourse.\n\nFor their part, in their embracement of liberal and free market principles European liberal conservatives are clearly distinguishable from those conservatives who have embraced national conservative views, more socially conservative stances and/or outright populism, let alone a right-wing populist posture. In much of central and northwestern Europe, especially in Germanic and traditionally Protestant countries, a divide between conservatives (including Christian democrats) and liberals persists. On the other hand, in those countries where liberal conservative movements have more recently entered the political mainstream, such as Italy and Spain, the terms \"liberal\" and \"conservative\" may be understood as synonymous. Often this involves stressing free market economics and the belief in individual responsibility together with the defense of civil rights and support for a limited welfare state. Compared to traditional centre-right politics, such as those proposed by Christian democrats, liberal conservatism is less traditionalist and more right-libertarian economically, favouring low taxes and minimal state intervention in the economy. In the modern European discourse, \"liberal conservatism\" usually encompasses centre-right political outlooks that reject at least to some extent social conservatism. This position is also associated with support for moderate forms of social safety net and environmentalism. In this sense, \"liberal conservatism\" has been espoused for instance by Nordic conservative parties (the Moderate Party in Sweden, the Conservative Party in Norway and the National Coalition Party in Finland), which have seen right-wing populist parties emerge to their right and do not comprise Christian democrats who form separate parties and the British Conservative Party under David Cameron, who in an interview shortly after taking office as Prime Minister in 2010 said that he had always described himself as a \"liberal conservative\". In his first speech to a Conservative Party's conference in 2006, Cameron had defined this as believing in individual freedom and human rights, but being skeptical of \"grand schemes to remake the world\".\n\nHistorically, in the 18th and 19th centuries \"conservatism\" comprised a set of principles based on concern for established tradition, respect for authority and religious values. This form of traditionalist or classical conservatism is often considered to be exemplified by the writings of Joseph de Maistre in the post-Enlightenment age. Contemporaneous \"liberalism\" – now recalled as classical liberalism – advocated both political freedom for individuals and a free market in the economic sphere. Ideas of this sort were promulgated by John Locke, Montesquieu, Adam Smith, Jeremy Bentham and John Stuart Mill, who are respectively remembered as the fathers of classical liberalism, the separation of church and state, economic liberalism, utilitarianism and social liberalism.\nAccording to scholar Andrew Vincent, the maxim of liberal conservatism is \"economics is prior to politics\". Others emphasize the openness of historical change and a suspicion of tyrannical majorities behind the hailing of individual liberties and traditional virtues, by authors such as Edmund Burke and Alexis de Tocqueville, as the basis of current liberal conservatism as seen both in the works of Raymond Aron and Michael Oakeshott and the ideological outlook of centre-right parties. However, there is general agreement that the original liberal conservatives were those who combined conservative social attitudes with an economically liberal outlook, adapting a previous aristocratic understanding of natural inequalities between men to the rule of meritocracy – without directly criticizing privileges of birth as long as individual liberties were guaranteed. Over time, the majority of conservatives in the Western world came to adopt free market economic ideas as the Industrial Revolution progressed and the aristocracy lost its power, to the extent that such ideas are now generally considered as part of conservatism. Nonetheless, in most countries the term \"liberal\" is used to describe those with free market economic views. This is the case, for example, in continental Europe, Australia and Latin America.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1976282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1976282", "title": "List of international instruments relevant to the worst forms of child labour", "text": "List of international instruments relevant to the worst forms of child labour\n\nInstruments defining \"worst forms of child labour\" (WFCL) and containing substantive provisions on \"all WFCL\":\n\n\n\n\nThe most comprehensive international instrument focussing on Commercial sexual exploitation of children (CSEC) is the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Sale of Children, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography (2000) \n\nOther instruments are (in chronological order)\n\n"}
{"id": "51248005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51248005", "title": "Media reactions to the Gaza flotilla raid", "text": "Media reactions to the Gaza flotilla raid\n\nMedia reactions to the Gaza flotilla raid on 31 May 2010 ranged from strong support to strong condemnation of Israel. Criticism included the deaths of civilians, the execution of the raid, increased sympathy toward Israel's opponents or enemies, and increased isolation of Israel.\n\nA survey of Israeli Jews published in \"Maariv\" on 2 June showed 94.8 percent agreeing that it was necessary to stop the boats, with 62.7 percent saying it should have been handled in a different manner. Only 8.1 percent thought Netanyahu should resign. The newspaper didn't say how many people were surveyed or give a margin of error.\n\nCriticism within Israel on the flotilla operation has focused largely on the execution of the raid and not the blockade. The\nIsraeli media, which had initially supported the IDF action and corroborated the IDF account of the incident, later criticized the operation as having been badly handled. \"Haaretz\" said that the Israeli army had fallen into a trap set by the flotilla organizers. While Israeli soldiers were supported, the government was chastised for putting Israel in a compromising situation.\n\nThe Israeli newspaper \"Haaretz\" had a headline initially reading \"Botched raid on Free Gaza Flotilla\", the online headline was later changed to \"Israel fears diplomatic backlash in wake of Gaza flotilla deaths\", while \"Maariv\" went with \"Flotilla Fiasco\".\n\nIsraeli journalist Gideon Levy remarked in an opinion article, \"Again Israel will pay a heavy diplomatic price, once which had not been considered ahead of time. Again, the Israeli propaganda machine has managed to convince only brainwashed Israelis, and once more no one asked the question: What was it for? Why were our soldiers thrown into this trap of pipes and ball bearings? What did we get out of it?\"\n\nFerhat Kentel from Taraf, compared the victims of the Gaza flotilla raid to Hrant Dink. Soli Özel, an instructor of international relations at Bilgi University, a columnist for \"Habertürk\" newspaper and a frequent contributor to \"The Washington Post\"s \"Post Global\" in Istanbul said:\nThere is now civilian blood between the two countries. The natural arc of relations will have to change.\n\nCüneyt Ülsever, a commentator in the daily \"Hürriyet\", has criticized the İHH, saying, \"People will understand very soon that the İHH is harming Turkey, and warned that the effect of the crisis would be to persuade the West that Turkey is aligning itself with the likes of Iran, Syria, Hamas and Hezbollah.\"\n\n\"The Washington Post\" and CBS News reported that American lawmakers in both parties expressed support for Israel in the wake of growing international condemnation following the raid. New York Democratic Party Representative Anthony Weiner said \"This was about instigating an altercation and they succeeded.\" Another New York Representative, Gary Ackerman, told the United States House Committee on Foreign Affairs he \"strongly support[s] Israel's right to defend itself, and the right of Israels naval commandos, who were executing a legal mission, to defend themselves by using force when they were brutally attacked\". Politico reports. According to Fox News United States Senator John McCain said pro-Palestinian activists \"wanted to provoke an international crisis ... and they obviously succeeded\", while he also questioned President Obama's commitment to Israeli security in the wake of the current crisis.\n\n\"Los Angeles Times\" asked several questions regarding the responsibility for the clash, while saying there was still much to be learned about the incident. While saying \"As is so often the case with events involving Israelis and Palestinians, the competing narratives allow supporters of almost any position to hear what they want to hear.\" The editorial said, \"This much, however, seems undeniable: Israel has done itself serious damage. [This was because] the decision to deploy armed troops to obstruct what was apparently a nonviolent mission and then, even if you accept Israel's version of events, to allow them to be drawn into a battle that left so many civilians dead, will serve as a further blow to the ailing peace process and as more fodder for those who argue that Israel's 'disproportionate' use of force is evidence of a cavalier attitude toward human life.\" While admitting the raid would not focus new attention on the blockade itself, the editorial also concluded in saying, \"This page supports Israel's right to self-defense. We support reasonable measures to stop cross-border shelling and to keep weapons from illegally entering Gaza by land or sea. We oppose the Hamas government's consistent call for the destruction of Israel. But we also want to see an end to the blockade, which amounts to collective punishment of about 1.5 million Palestinians.\"\n\n\"The New York Times\" quoted a statement allegedly from the flotilla organizers saying \"A violent response from Israel will breathe new life into the Palestine solidarity movement, drawing attention to the blockade.\" They then said \"There can be no excuse for the way that Israel completely mishandled the incident.\" And that the raid turned out to be \"a grievous, self-inflicted wound. It has damaged Israel's ties with Turkey, once its closest ally in the Muslim world; given the Hamas-led government in Gaza a huge propaganda boost; and complicated peace talks with the Palestinian Authority in the West Bank.\" It also asks \"Why did Israel, which has blocked some ships but allowed others to pass, decide to take a stand now? Did it make a real effort to find a compromise with Turkey, which sanctioned the flotilla? [While] Israel has a right to stop weapons from going into Gaza, but there has been no suggestion that the ships were carrying a large cache.\" \"The New York Times\" concludes, \"needs to state clearly that the Israeli attack was unacceptable and back an impartial international investigation. The United States should also join the other permanent members of the United Nations Security Council – Britain, France, Russia and China – in urging Israel to permanently lift the blockade.\" Another editorial said \"Turkey is understandably furious\" but \"Turkish officials have let their anger and rhetoric go way too far... Israel deserves to be criticized for the flotilla disaster. But gratuitously stoking anti-Israeli sentiment is irresponsible and dangerous.\"\n\nThe \"San Francisco Chronicle\" called the raid a \"disaster on every level\". It also contended that Israel's \"enemies could not have scripted a more bungled operation: ... setting off recriminations, policy breaches and deepening isolation for Israel ...\nThe peace process, already in the cryogenic stage, is at full stop ... The episode reruns old stories. Palestinian sympathizers wanted a confrontation over Israel's blockade of Hamas-run Gaza ... and ignored offers to dock in Israeli ports and ship the aid by land... Another horrifying Mideast moment will live on to paralyze progress in the future ... The purpose was clearly to call attention to the blockade, viewed as essential by Israel to cap terrorism, and regarded as harsh and unsuccessful by critics.\" It concluded, \"There is no other course than to admit a serious mistake. Without one, the region is condemned to a future without change or hope.\"\n\nIn an op-ed piece \"The Wall Street Journal\" said \"Israel's actions in boarding the flotilla of ships bound for the Gaza Strip were entirely justified and perhaps even unavoidable.\" Although, they add the caveat, \"Unfortunately they turned into a tactical and strategic fiasco that does further damage to the Jewish State's tattered international reputation.\" A separate \"Wall Street Journal\" article emphasized Israel's need to keep advanced weaponry from getting to Hamas: \"Those who denounce Israel today ought to at least propose how they mean to keep arms from going to Hamas—or else consider the role their denunciations will play in encouraging another war.\" Another article stated \"the more facts that come to light about the flotilla, its passengers and their sponsors, the more it seems clear that Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Ergodan's government, far more so than Israel's, must be held to account for Monday's violent episode.\" After describing the links between the Islamic charity that organized the flotilla and terrorist groups, \"The Wall Street Journal\" states \"No wonder that Israel was not prepared to let this flotilla break its blockade of Gaza... Israel is entirely within its rights to prevent Hamas from linking with groups suspected of supplying arms and money to terrorists. Israel had also gone out of its way to give Turkey fair warning...\" \"The Wall Street Journal\" goes on to note that Turkish foreign policy under Erdogan has become progressively radical and out of line with the U.S.\n\n\"The Washington Post\" said the raid was a \"diplomatic debacle for the government of Binyamin Netanyahu\". And, \"Though the investigations to come will find many to blame, it's already clear that Israel's response to the pro-Palestinian flotilla was both misguided and badly executed.\" The editorial also said, \"We have no sympathy for the motives of the participants in the flotilla... What's plain is that the group's nominal purpose, delivering 'humanitarian' supplies to Gaza, was secondary to the aim of provoking a confrontation.\" While saying \"Yet the threat to Israel was political rather than military. So far there's been no indication the boats carried missiles or other arms for Hamas.\" It continued \"Mr. Netanyahu's aim should have been to prevent the militants from creating the incident they were hoping for. Allowing the boats to dock in Gaza, as Israel had done before, would have been better than sending military commandos to intercept them. The fact that the soldiers who roped down from helicopters to the lead Turkish ferry were unprepared to subdue its passengers without using lethal force only compounded the error.\" It concluded, \"The prime minister (Netanyahu) is in a deepening hole; his only way out is to move to the center.\" Another editorial stated that while \"Western governments have been right to be concerned about Israel's poor judgment ... [they] ought to be at least as worried about the Turkish government ... which ... has shown a sympathy toward Islamic militants and a penchant for grotesque demagoguery toward Israel that ought to be unacceptable for a member of NATO.\" In reference to Turkey's statement, \"Israel had no just cause to clash with 'European lawmakers, journalists, business leaders, and a Holocaust survivor,' the article noted, \"there was no fighting with those people, or with five of the six boats in the fleet. All of the violence occurred aboard the Turkish ferry \"Mavi Marmara\", and all of those who were killed were members or volunteers for the Islamic 'charity' that owned the ship.\" The editorial claimed that the İHH \"is a member of the 'Union of Good,' a coalition that was formed to provide material support to Hamas and that was named as a terrorist entity by the United States in 2008\". It then said, \"The relationship between Mr. Erdogan's government and the İHH ought to be one focus of any international investigation into the incident.\" The article claims, \"In the days since an incident that the İHH admits it provoked [Erdogan] has done his best to compete with Iran's Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and Hezbollah's Hassan Nasrallah in attacking the Jewish state [and calling] Israel's actions 'state terrorism.' [and Israel] merciless, rootless state.\" The editorial labeles Davutoglu's comparison saying \"this attack is like 9/11 for Turkey\" as an \"obscene comparison\". The article attacked Erdogan in saying his \"attempt to exploit the incident comes only a couple of weeks after he joined Brazil's president in linking arms with Mr. Ahmadinejad, whom he is assisting in an effort to block new UN sanctions\". The article mentions that Turkey's moves came despite the Obama administration overtures. \"What's remarkable about his turn toward extremism is that it comes after more than a year of assiduous courting by the Obama administration, which, among other things, has overlooked his antidemocratic behavior at home, helped him combat the Kurdish PKK and catered to Turkish sensitivities about the Armenian genocide. Israel is suffering the consequences of its misjudgments and disregard of U.S. interests. Will Mr. Erdogan's behavior be without cost?\"\n\n\"USA Today\" said \"In practical terms, the argument hardly matters. By opting for an assault on the six-ship convoy trying to break a 3-year-old blockade of Gaza, Israel handed its opponents a victory they could not have achieved by other means and simultaneously left itself, the United States and the struggling Mideast peace process with a huge problem... Israel, however, remained adamant, implausibly casting the flotilla organizers as a mortal threat.\" They drew parallels saying \"The pity is that the Israelis so lacked the same prescience, remarkable in light of their own history. No event was more important to the formation of Israel than the confrontation 63 years ago between the ship Exodus...\" They believed that as a \"smart solution to the current impasse... Israel should allow humanitarian aid into Gaza on the condition that cargo first be inspected for weapons. Palestinians should accept that restriction. The United States and United Nations should try to ensure its enforcement.\"\n\nThe Toronto Sun said the attack damaged Israel's reputation and suggested it \"might have wanted to rethink the orders that led to Monday's fatal clash\". It reasoned that this, along with the Dubai assassination of a Hamas leader, \"left a trail of evidence a mile wide, to put a dent in the reputation of the country's legendary intelligence and security operations. \" Adding, \"For the peace process, this story feels relevant in ways that may not be obvious right away, as though something has shifted. It's not as simple as Israel stumbling into a PR disaster or lost international support, as some would like to make it.\" However, it also said, \"For the Palestinians, it underscored the division between blockaded, Hamas-run Gaza and the West Bank, which has fared better in so many ways for not being Hamas-run Gaza.\"\n\n\"The Times\" published an article by former Spanisn Prime Minister José Maria Aznar saying the world must support Israel because \"if it goes down, we all go down. In an ideal world, the assault by Israeli commandos on the 'Mavi Marmara' would not have ended up with nine dead and a score wounded. In an ideal world, the soldiers would have been peacefully welcomed on to the ship.\" In the article Aznar criticised Turkey, for placing Israel \"in an impossible situation\" in which it would have to either give up its security or face world condemnation. Aznar concluded that Israel is the West's first line of defense, and must be protected.\n\nThe \"Financial Times\" called the attack a \"brazen act of piracy\", that dealt a blow to the legitimacy of Israel's struggle. The paper continued, \"Israel claims the activists had links with extremist groups and that some attacked Israeli soldiers with knives and sticks (and in some accounts the odd light firearm). Even if true, this would not justify the illegal capture of civilian ships carrying humanitarian aid in international waters, let alone the use of deadly force.\"\n\nGünther Nonnenmacher of the editorial board of the \"Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung\" wrote that Israel seems to have lost all sense of proportion and would not pay attention to public opinion. The raid on the convoy would constitute a new level of escalation.\n\nThe Croatian daily \"Jutarnji list\" said Croatia was in an unenviable position because \"On the one hand, the country feels responsibility towards Israel and its politics have always reflected that responsibility. On the other hand, Turkey is an important ally in the region with its influence on the reform processes in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and as a growing trading partner for Croatia.\"\n\n\"The Wall Street Journal\" said that skepticism concerning the IHH version of events on the Mavi Marmara \"appears to have accelerated as a result of unexpected criticism of the IHH's actions from Turkish moderate Islamic leader Fethullah Gülen\". Turkey's Cuneyt Ulsever, a commentator in the daily \"Hürriyet\", wrote, \"People will understand very soon that the IHH is harming Turkey, and warned that the effect of the crisis would be to persuade the West that Turkey is aligning itself with the likes of Iran, Syria, Hamas and Hezbollah.\" \"The Wall Street Journal\" said that skepticism concerning the IHH version of events on the Mavi Marmara \"appears to have accelerated as a result of unexpected criticism of the IHH's actions from Turkish moderate Islamic leader Fethullah Gülen\". The religious conservative daily Vakit published on its front page the names and photographs of eight newspaper columnists who censured the government's handling of the flotilla affair, calling them \"spin doctors who shoot bullets at the aid ship\".\n\nPixies, Gorillaz, and Klaxons were among the bands scheduled to play at Tel Aviv's \"Pic.Nic festival\". According to festival organizers, all three groups cancelled their plans in relation to the naval raid. In addition Gil Scott-Heron cancelled an appearance.\n\nThe Brazilian film maker Iara Lee wrote about her experience on the ship in an article in the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" in which she said \"Israel's powerful navy could have easily approached our boat and boarded it in broad daylight or pursued nonviolent options for disabling our vessel. Instead, the Israeli military launched a nighttime assault with heavily armed commandos... I feared for the lives of my fellow passengers as I heard shots being fired on deck, and I later saw the bodies of several people killed being carried inside... When it was over, the Israeli soldiers commandeered our ships, illegally kidnapped us from international waters, towed us to the port of Ashdod, and arrested all of us on board.\" Concluding, \"What happened to our flotilla is happening to the people of Gaza on a daily basis. It will not stop until international law is applied to all countries, Israel included.\"\n\nMeg Ryan and Dustin Hoffman canceled their appearances in 2010's Jerusalem Film Festival. According to associate director of the festival, Yigal Molad Hayo, neither gave the political climate as a direct reason for canceling their participation in the festival but it became quite clear that was the reason.\n\nLatma TV, an initiative of the Center for Security Policy, a staunchly conservative organization located in Washington, D.C., produced a video titled \"We Con the World\" and set to the tune of the 1985 hit, \"We Are the World\". The video, which is published on the internet, satirizes the political intentions of the activists aboard the \"MV Mavi Marmara\" with up to a dozen members of the so-called \"Flotilla Choir\"— some wearing a variation of traditional Arab dress—sing satirical verses, such as: \"There's no people dying, so the best that we can do is create the biggest bluff of all.\" The Israeli government's press office later apologized for circulating a link to the video that mocked activists on board, and clarified that it does not represent Israel's official stance. The creation of the film was initiated by Caroline Glick, the deputy managing director and columnist for the Jerusalem Post.\n\nFollowing upon the event and the various video clips presented by both Turkey and Israel, Iranian filmmaker Saeed Faraji created \"Freedom Flotilla\", a 56-minute documentary film about the event as his first feature length film project. The film aired in three parts on November 16, 17 and 18, 2010 and on Iran Television Channel 1 and Channel 4.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "110381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=110381", "title": "Medium wave", "text": "Medium wave\n\nMedium wave (MW) is the part of the medium frequency (MF) radio band used mainly for AM radio broadcasting. For Europe the MW band ranges from 526.5 kHz to 1606.5 kHz, using channels spaced every 9 kHz, and in North America an extended MW broadcast band ranges from 525 kHz to 1705 kHz, using 10 kHz spaced channels. The term is a historic one, dating from the early 20th century, when the radio spectrum was divided on the basis of the wavelength of the waves into long wave (LW), medium wave, and short wave (SW) radio bands.\n\nWavelengths in this band are long enough that radio waves are not blocked by buildings and hills and can propagate beyond the horizon following the curvature of the Earth; this is called the groundwave. Practical groundwave reception typically extends to 200–300 miles, with greater distances over terrain with higher ground conductivity, and greatest distances over salt water. Most broadcast stations use groundwave to cover their listening area.\n\nMedium waves can also reflect off charged particle layers in the ionosphere and return to Earth at much greater distances; this is called the skywave. At night, especially in winter months and at times of low solar activity, the lower ionospheric D layer virtually disappears. When this happens, MW radio waves can easily be received many hundreds or even thousands of miles away as the signal will be reflected by the higher F layer. This can allow very long-distance broadcasting, but can also interfere with distant local stations. Due to the limited number of available channels in the MW broadcast band, the same frequencies are re-allocated to different broadcasting stations several hundred miles apart. On nights of good skywave propagation, the skywave signals of a distant station may interfere with the signals of local stations on the same frequency. In North America, the North American Regional Broadcasting Agreement (NARBA) sets aside certain channels for nighttime use over extended service areas via skywave by a few specially licensed AM broadcasting stations. These channels are called clear channels, and they are required to broadcast at higher powers of 10 to 50 kW.\n\nInitially, broadcasting in the United States was restricted to two wavelengths: \"entertainment\" was broadcast at 360 meters (833 kHz), with stations required to switch to 485 meters (619 kHz) when broadcasting weather forecasts, crop price reports and other government reports. This arrangement had numerous practical difficulties. Early transmitters were technically crude and virtually impossible to set accurately on their intended frequency and if (as frequently happened) two (or more) stations in the same part of the country broadcast simultaneously the resultant interference meant that usually neither could be heard clearly. The Commerce Department rarely intervened in such cases but left it up to stations to enter into voluntary timesharing agreements amongst themselves. The addition of a third \"entertainment\" wavelength, 400 meters, did little to solve this overcrowding.\n\nIn 1923, the Commerce Department realized that as more and more stations were applying for commercial licenses, it was not practical to have every station broadcast on the same three wavelengths. On 15 May 1923, Commerce Secretary Herbert Hoover announced a new bandplan which set aside 81 frequencies, in 10 kHz steps, from 550 kHz to 1350 kHz (extended to 1500, then 1600 and ultimately 1700 kHz in later years). Each station would be assigned one frequency (albeit usually shared with stations in other parts of the country and/or abroad), no longer having to broadcast weather and government reports on a different frequency than entertainment. Class A and B stations were segregated into sub-bands.\n\nToday in most of the Americas, mediumwave broadcast stations are separated by 10 kHz and have two sidebands of up to ±5 kHz in theory. In the rest of the world, the separation is 9 kHz, with sidebands of ±4.5 kHz. Both provide adequate audio quality for voice, but are insufficient for high-fidelity broadcasting, which is common on the VHF FM bands. In the US and Canada the maximum transmitter power is restricted to 50 kilowatts, while in Europe there are medium wave stations with transmitter power up to 2 megawatts daytime.\n\nMost United States AM radio stations are required by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to shut down, reduce power, or employ a directional antenna array at night in order to avoid interference with each other due to night-time only long-distance skywave propagation (sometimes loosely called ‘skip’). Those stations which shut down completely at night are often known as \"daytimers\". Similar regulations are in force for Canadian stations, administered by Industry Canada; however, daytimers no longer exist in Canada, the last station having signed off in 2013, after migrating to the FM band.\n\nIn Europe, each country is allocated a number of frequencies on which high power (up to 2 MW) can be used; the maximum power is also subject to international agreement by the International Telecommunication Union (ITU). In most cases there are two power limits: a lower one for omnidirectional and a higher one for directional radiation with minima in certain directions. The power limit can also be depending on daytime and it is possible, that a station may not work at nighttime, because it would then produce too much interference. Other countries may only operate low-powered transmitters on the same frequency, again subject to agreement. For example, Russia operates a high-powered transmitter, located in its Kaliningrad exclave and used for external broadcasting, on 1386 kHz. The same frequency is also used by low-powered local radio stations in the United Kingdom, which has approximately 250 medium-wave transmitters of 1 kW and over; other parts of the United Kingdom can still receive the Russian broadcast. International mediumwave broadcasting in Europe has decreased markedly with the end of the Cold War and the increased availability of satellite and Internet TV and radio, although the cross-border reception of neighbouring countries' broadcasts by expatriates and other interested listeners still takes place.\n\nDue to the high demand for frequencies in Europe, many countries operate single frequency networks; in Britain, BBC Radio Five Live broadcasts from various transmitters on either 693 or 909 kHz. These transmitters are carefully synchronized to minimize interference from more distant transmitters on the same frequency.\n\nOvercrowding on the Medium wave band is a serious problem in parts of Europe contributing to the early adoption of VHF FM broadcasting by many stations (particularly in Germany). However, in recent years several European countries (Including Ireland, Poland and, to a lesser extent Switzerland) have started moving away from Medium wave altogether with most/all services moving exclusively to other bands (usually VHF).\n\nIn Germany, almost all Medium wave public-radio broadcasts were discontinued between 2012 and 2015 to cut costs and save energy, with the last such remaining programme (Deutschlandradio) being switched off on 31 December 2015.\n\nStereo transmission is possible and offered by some stations in the U.S., Canada, Mexico, the Dominican Republic, Paraguay, Australia, The Philippines, Japan, South Korea, South Africa, Italy and France. However, there have been multiple standards for AM stereo. C-QUAM is the official standard in the United States as well as other countries, but receivers that implement the technology are no longer readily available to consumers. Used receivers with AM Stereo can be found. Names such as \"FM/AM Stereo\" or \"AM & FM Stereo\" can be misleading and usually do not signify that the radio will decode C-QUAM AM stereo, whereas a set labeled \"FM Stereo/AM Stereo\" or \"AMAX Stereo\" will support AM stereo.\n\nIn September 2002, the United States Federal Communications Commission approved the proprietary iBiquity in-band on-channel (IBOC) HD Radio system of digital audio broadcasting, which is meant to improve the audio quality of signals. The Digital Radio Mondiale (DRM) system standardised by ETSI supports stereo and is the ITU approved system for use outside North America and U.S. territories. Some HD Radio receivers also support C-QUAM AM stereo, although this feature is usually not advertised by the manufacturer.\n\nFor broadcasting, mast radiators are the most common type of antenna used, consisting of a steel lattice guyed mast in which the mast structure itself is used as the antenna. Stations broadcasting with low power can use masts with heights of a quarter-wavelength (about 310 millivolts per meter using one kilowatt at one kilometer) to 5/8 wavelength (225 electrical degrees; about 440 millivolts per meter using one kilowatt at one kilometer), while high power stations mostly use half-wavelength to 5/9 wavelength. The usage of masts taller than 5/9 wavelength (200 electrical degrees; about 410 millivolts per meter using one kilowatt at one kilometer) with high power gives a poor vertical radiation pattern, and 195 electrical degrees (about 400 millivolts per meter using one kilowatt at one kilometer) is generally considered ideal in these cases. Usually mast antennas are series-excited (base driven); the feedline is attached to the mast at the base. The base of the antenna is at high electrical potential and must be supported on a ceramic insulator to isolate it from the ground. Shunt-excited masts, in which the base of the mast is at a node of the standing wave at ground potential and so does not need to be insulated from the ground, have fallen into disuse, except in cases of exceptionally high power, 1 MW or more, where series excitation might be impractical. If grounded masts or towers are required, cage or long-wire aerials are used. Another possibility consists of feeding the mast or the tower by cables running from the tuning unit to the guys or crossbars at a certain height.\n\nDirectional aerials consist of multiple masts, which need not to be of the same height. It is also possible to realize directional aerials for mediumwave with cage aerials where some parts of the cage are fed with a certain phase difference.\n\nFor medium-wave (AM) broadcasting, quarter-wave masts are between and high, depending on the frequency. Because such tall masts can be costly and uneconomic, other types of antennas are often used, which employ capacitive top-loading (electrical lengthening) to achieve equivalent signal strength with vertical masts shorter than a quarter wavelength. A \"top hat\" of radial wires is occasionally added to the top of mast radiators, to allow the mast to be made shorter. For local broadcast stations and amateur stations of under 5 kW, T- and L-antennas are often used, which consist of one or more horizontal wires suspended between two masts, attached to a vertical radiator wire. A popular choice for lower-powered stations is the umbrella antenna, which needs only one mast one-tenth wavelength or less in height. This antenna uses a single mast insulated from ground and fed at the lower end against ground. At the top of the mast, radial top-load wires are connected (usually about six) which slope downwards at an angle of 40–45 degrees as far as about one-third of the total height, where they are terminated in insulators and thence outwards to ground anchors. Thus the umbrella antenna uses the guy wires as the top-load part of the antenna. In all these antennas the smaller radiation resistance of the short radiator is increased by the capacitance added by the wires attached to the top of the antenna.\n\nIn some rare cases dipole antennas are used, which are slung between two masts or towers. Such antennas are intended to radiate a skywave. The medium-wave transmitter at Berlin-Britz for transmitting RIAS used a cross dipole mounted on five 30.5-metre-high guyed masts to transmit the skywave to the ionosphere at nighttime.\n\nBecause at these frequencies atmospheric noise is far above the receiver signal to noise ratio, inefficient antennas much smaller than a wavelength can be used for receiving. For reception at frequencies below 1.6 MHz, which includes long and medium waves, loop antennas are popular because of their ability to reject locally generated noise. By far the most common antenna for broadcast reception is the ferrite-rod antenna, also known as a loopstick antenna. The high permeability ferrite core allows it to be compact enough to be enclosed inside the radio's case and still have adequate sensitivity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4397217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4397217", "title": "Merchant Shipping (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1976", "text": "Merchant Shipping (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1976\n\nMerchant Shipping (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1976 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1976, with the preamble stating:\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to substandard vessels, particularly those registered under flags of convenience...\n\nAs of 2013, the convention had been ratified by 56 states. Of these ratifying states, 21 have subsequently denounced the convention.\n\n"}
{"id": "1791128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1791128", "title": "Mexican labor law", "text": "Mexican labor law\n\nMexican labor law governs the process by which workers in Mexico may organize labor unions, engage in collective bargaining, and strike. Current labor law reflects the historic interrelation between the state and the Confederation of Mexican Workers, the labor confederation officially aligned with the Institutional Revolutionary Party (the Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI), which ruled Mexico under various names for more than seventy years. \n\nWhile the law, on its face, promises workers the right to strike and to organize, in practice it makes it difficult or impossible for independent unions to organize while condoning the corrupt practices of many existing unions and the employers with which they deal.\n\nThe current system originated in the Mexican Revolution of 1910–1920, which produced the Constitution of 1917. Article 123 of that Constitution gave workers the right to organize labor unions and to strike. It also provided protection for women and children, the eight-hour day, and a living wage. \n\nThe Constitution's promised rights, however, remained mere promises until 1931, when the government enacted the Ley Federal de Trabajo or Federal Labor Law. The LFT established Juntas de Conciliación y Arbitraje (the Boards of Conciliation and Arbitration), made up of representatives of the government, employers and labor unions.\n\nIn order to participate in this system, a union must have a legal registration (registro), must have an officially recognized right to negotiate collective bargaining agreements (titularidad), and must periodically re-register its officers and be accepted by the state (toma de nota). This system can be used to hobble independent unions not associated with the CTM or other federations that have established relations with the state, since all three members of these boards often have self-interested reasons for denying or delaying registration to rival unions.\n\nEmployers can also avoid unionization by entering into \"protection contracts\" with \"sindicatos blancos\" or \"white unions\", often before a plant is ever built. Such contracts frequently give the union a closed shop, which authorizes the union to demand that the employer fire a worker who is not a member in the union in good standing; that power can, in turn, be used to single out employees who seek to organize independent unions for termination. Some observers, including the independent Unión Nacional de Trabajadores (http://www.unt.org.mx) or UNT, estimate that between eighty and ninety percent of all collective bargaining agreements in Mexico fall into this category. \n\nEmployees are not always aware that they are covered by a protection contract or that they are represented by a union; while the ghost union may have registered with the Board and filed its contract with it, those records are not made public. An outside union that has filed a petition seeking to organize workers may have its petition dismissed if it is unaware that another union is already recognized or if it does not list the correct name or legal address of the incumbent union.\n\nIf an outside union challenging a recognized union is able to obtain registration, then it must go through an election to oust the incumbent. Local Boards often delay such elections for long periods; when they do take place they are by voice vote, rather than secret ballot, in elections held in the workplace under the supervision of a representative of the labour board, the employer, the official union and the independent union. In recent contested elections workers have been required to pass through a gauntlet of armed representatives of the incumbent union in order to report for work and to vote in their workplace. Even if the independent union wins the election, the original contract remains in place until its expiration. \n\nWhile Mexican labor law gives workers powerful rights to strike, barring employers from hiring replacement workers or operating during a strike, those rights are dependent on official approval from the Board. These local Boards frequently declare strikes to be \"inexistente\" or non-existent, depriving striking workers of all their legal protections. As a result, while labour protests and work stoppages are frequent in Mexico, legal strikes are rare.\n\nThe PRI and Mexican employers' associations started floating proposals to enhance productivity of Mexican industry by allowing it more \"flexibility\" during the late 1980s, when \"technocrats\" such as Miguel de la Madrid, Carlos Salinas de Gortari and Ernesto Zedillo were in command of the PRI. Those proposals made no headway, however, until after the election of Vicente Fox Quesada of the Partido Acción Nacional, or PAN, in 2000. Fox's Secretary of Labor, Carlos Abascal Carranza, a former head of one of the largest employer associations, initiated discussions in 2001 with employer associations and the official and independent union confederations aimed at achieving a consensus proposal for labor law reform.\n\nThe Abascal proposal presented in 2002, however, would tighten government control of unions and collective bargaining, without taking any steps to make information about unions' collective bargaining agreements or their activities available to affected workers or the public or make the organizing process any less cumbersome. On the contrary, the proposed reforms would heighten the risks for workers seeking to organize by requiring independent unions to submit the name and address of each of their members to the local Boards, which would then have the power to investigate the authenticity of their signatures. \n\nThe reforms would also favor existing unions by barring the board from considering more than one election petition at a time and tightening jurisdictional rules defining which labor organization can represent which workers, according to their craft, enterprise and company, making it impossible for some independent unions to challenge incumbents.\n\nOpponents of the law have challenged it under the provisions of the labor side letter to the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). While the CTM originally supported the reforms, some unions within the official labor movement have expressed reservations about it. The proposals are currently at a standstill.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3609484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3609484", "title": "Mobutism", "text": "Mobutism\n\nMobutism, also spelled Mobutuism, was an official party ideology of the Popular Movement of the Revolution (\"Mouvement Populaire de la Revolution\", MPR) as well as the official state ideology in Zaire (now the Democratic Republic of the Congo) during the latter half of the 20th century. Mobutism encompassed and glorified the thoughts, visions, and policies of Zairian president and self-proclaimed \"Father of the Nation,\" Mobutu Sese Seko. The ideology included such major Mobutu initiatives as \"Zairianization.\"\n\nThe Popular Movement of the Revolution (MPR) was entrenched as the single legal political party in a one-party state in Zaire. Originally Mobutu designed the constitution of Zaire to have a figurehead opposition party but later claimed that the constitution only recommended but did not demand this and thus a one-party state was created and all other political parties were banned afterwards in 1966. The ideology laid down in the Manifesto of N'sele, incorporated \"nationalism,\" \"revolution,\" and \"authenticity.\" Revolution was described as a \"truly national revolution, essentially pragmatic,\" which called for \"the repudiation of both capitalism and communism,\" favoured \"national revolution.\" The Manifesto of N'sele also laid out the intentions of the government which included expansion of the national government's authority, a program committed to upgrading labour standards, having the country gain economic independence, and the creation of an \"authentic nationalism\" in Zaire.\n\nMobutu led the MPR and Zaire as a dictator, and denounced the idea of multiple leaders and political parties in the country saying: \"In our African tradition there are never two chiefs….That is why we Congolese, in the desire to conform to the traditions of our continent, have resolved to group all the energies of the citizens of our country under the banner of a single national party.\"\n\nMobutu and the MPR were presented in propaganda as being attributed to the divine and sought to replace Christianity in Zaire with a religious devotion to Mobutu and the MPR with interior minister Engulu Baanga Mpongo once saying to supporters of the MPR: \"God has sent a great prophet, our prestigious Guide Mobutu. This prophet is our liberator, our Messiah. Our Church is the MPR. Its chief is Mobutu. We respect him like one respects a Pope. Our gospel is Mobutuism. That is why the crucifixes must be replaced by the image of our Messiah.\"\n\nMobutu and the MPR pursued a national cultural revival program in Zaire called \"Authenticité\" beginning in 1967 which sought to purge colonial European culture from Zaire and restore local culture, such as by forbidding Christian names and culture while promoting local African names and culture as well as forbidding western suits and creating a state-authorized uniform called the \"abacost\".\n\nThe ideology survives today in such organizations as Nzanga Mobutu's Union of Mobutuist Democrats.\n\n"}
{"id": "31996184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31996184", "title": "Nokku kooli", "text": "Nokku kooli\n\nNokku kooli is an euphimism for extortion by organized labour unions in Kerala under which wages are paid to trade union activists for allowing common householders/ investors/builders to unload belongings/materials using machines or their own labour. This happens with the tacit support of political parties including those in government. In Malayalam, 'nokku kooli', translates into 'gawking wages' or 'wages for (just) looking on'. It had gained widespread notoriety all over Kerala, but the practice has been considerably curtailed in recent times.\n\n\"Nokku kooli\" often enjoys a quasi-statutory status. The wages list finalized by the Head-load Workers Welfare Fund Board in an industrial zone in Kochi shows Rs. 200 per load of ready-mix concrete. This, when the entire process is machine-driven. Similarly, one tipper load (lorry which can mechanically tip the load) fetches Rs. 15 for the union. At least 1,000 tipper lorries are at work in the Vallarpadom container trans-shipment terminal site in Kochi. Yet another example was in Idukki. Recently, the state Power minister A.K. Balan publicly censured head-load workers who took Rs 3,000 each as \"nokku kooli\" while cranes installed some 14 turbines, each weighing 80 tonnes, atop 120-ft towers, for a windmill farm.\n\nThe \"modus operandi\" is usually as follows: At almost every industrial zone and residential area in the state, worker's unions posts \"lookouts\" whose task is to spot vehicles carrying goods. Once a quarry is spotted the news is quickly conveyed to all available union members, who then descend \"en masse\" to the place where the goods are to be offloaded. Heated negotiations then commence. The leaders often demand extortionist rates for doing the work. Their demand for a \"right to work\" is often not matched by an obligation to be efficient. So the usual compromise is for pay the union workers a certain amount for just watching - or gawking - while the work is done mechanically or using in-house workers. The employer, of course, loses both ways while making a double payment for the same work - he pays one group of \"workers\" for not working and another for actually getting it done.\n\nA Malayalam Writer, Paul Zakaria, illustrates Nokku Kooli with the following example:\n\nWidely recognized as an unethical labour practice, it is cited as one of the reasons for poor industrial development in Kerala. Following a recent change of government in the state, the new Labour Minister Shibu Baby John has said attempts to end the menace of ‘nokku kooli' will commence as part of the department's agenda for the 100-day development program of the State government declared by Chief Minister Oommen Chandy. This move by the government has been substantial success and various cities and districts have been declared Nokku Kooli-free.. On 2018 May 1, an official release from the Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan office said that trade unions had offered full support to the state government's move to end 'nokku kooli' in the state and 'Nokku kooli' to become history.\n\nThe Labour Department of the state government of Kerala has taken steps to end this illegal practice; including depriving the workers involved, of their jobs. There were interventions from Kerala High Court stating that case would be filed against those demanding ‘nokku kooli’.\n\nThe state government unified the loading and unloading charges in the state after reviewing and revising the prevailing charges. A scheme was launched allowing the advance remittance of loading/unloading charges through State Bank of Travancore branches. This fare would be claimed by the workers from the bank through \"Headload Workers Welfare Fund Board\" offices.\n\nThis scheme is launched in the capital city Thiruvananthapuram(Trivandrum), which is declared as the first ‘Nokkukooli-free’ city in the state. Government is in the process of launching this scheme all over the state starting with the five municipal corporations in the state. Kochi and Kozhikode was declared ‘Nokkukooli-free’ subsequently.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "310484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=310484", "title": "Patent medicine", "text": "Patent medicine\n\nA patent medicine, also known as a nostrum (from the Latin \"nostrum remedium\", or \"our remedy\") is a commercial product advertised (usually heavily) as a purported over-the-counter medicine, without regard to its effectiveness.\n\nPatent medicines were one of the first major product categories that the advertising industry promoted; patent medicine promoters pioneered many advertising and sales techniques that were later used for other products. Patent medicine advertising often marketed products as being medical panaceas (or at least a treatment for a large number of diseases) and emphasized exotic ingredients and endorsements from purported experts or celebrities, which may or may have not been true. Patent medicines were increasingly constricted in the United States in the early 20th century as the Food and Drug Administration and Federal Trade Commission added ever-increasing regulations to prevent fraud, unintentional poisoning and deceptive advertising. Sellers of liniments, claimed to contain snake oil and falsely promoted as a cure-all, made the \"snake oil salesman\" a lasting symbol for a charlatan.\n\nThe phrase \"patent medicine\" comes from the late 17th century marketing of medical elixirs, when those who found favour with royalty were issued \"letters patent\" authorising the use of the royal endorsement in advertising. Few if any of the nostrums were actually patented; chemical patents did not come into use in the United States until 1925. Furthermore, patenting one of these remedies would have meant publicly disclosing its ingredients, which most promoters sought to avoid.\n\nAdvertisement kept these patent medications in the public eye and gave the belief that no disease was beyond the cure of patent medication. “The medicine man’s key task quickly became not production but sales, the job of persuading ailing citizens to buy his particular brand from among the hundreds offered. Whether unscrupulous or self-deluded, nostrum makers set about this task with cleverness and zeal.”\n\nInstead, the compounders of such nostrums used a primitive version of branding to distinguish their products from the crowd of their competitors. Many extant brands from the era live on today in brands such as Luden's cough drops, Lydia E. Pinkham's vegetable compound for women, Fletcher's Castoria and even Angostura bitters, which was once marketed as a stomachic. Though sold at high prices, many of these products were made from cheap ingredients. Their composition was well known within the pharmacy trade, and druggists manufactured and sold (for a slightly lower price) medicines of almost identical composition. To protect profits, the branded medicine advertisements emphasized brand names, and urged the public to \"accept no substitutes\".\n\nWith the rising popularity of patent medicine in advertising, The Kellogg Company of Canada adopted similar tactics, publishing a book named \"A New Way of Living\" that would show readers \"how to achieve a new way of living; how to preserve vitality; how to maintain enthusiasm and energy; how to get the most out of life because of a physical ability to enjoy it.\" It touted the All-Bran cereal as the secret to leading \"normal\" lives free of constipation.\n\nAt least in the earliest days, the history of patent medicines is coextensive with scientific medicine. Empirical medicine, and the beginning of the application of the scientific method to medicine, began to yield a few orthodoxly acceptable herbal and mineral drugs for the physician's arsenal. These few remedies, on the other hand, were inadequate to cover the bewildering variety of diseases and symptoms. Beyond these patches of evidence-based application, people used other methods, such as occultism; the \"doctrine of signatures\" – essentially, the application of sympathetic magic to pharmacology – held that nature had hidden clues to medically effective drugs in their resemblances to the human body and its parts. This led medical men to hope, at least, that, say, walnut shells might be good for skull fractures. Homeopathy, the notion that illness is binary and can be treated by ingredients that cause the same symptoms in healthy people, was another outgrowth of this early era of medicine. Given the state of the pharmacopoeia, and patients' demands for something to take, physicians began making \"blunderbuss\" concoctions of various drugs, proven and unproven. These concoctions were the ancestors of the several nostrums.\n\nTouting these nostrums was one of the first major projects of the advertising industry. The marketing of nostrums under implausible claims has a long history. In Henry Fielding's \"Tom Jones\" (1749), allusion is made to the sale of medical compounds claimed to be universal panaceas:\n\nWithin the English-speaking world, patent medicines are as old as journalism. \"Anderson's Pills\" were first made in England in the 1630s; the recipe was allegedly learned in Venice by a Scot who claimed to be physician to King Charles I. Daffy's Elixir was invented about 1647 and remained popular in Britain and the USA until the late 19th century. The use of \"letters patent\" to obtain exclusive marketing rights to certain labelled formulas and their marketing fueled the circulation of early newspapers. The use of invented names began early. In 1726 a patent was also granted to the makers of \"Dr. Bateman's Pectoral Drops\"; at least on the documents that survive, there was no Dr. Bateman. This was the enterprise of a Benjamin Okell and a group of promoters who owned a warehouse and a print shop to promote the product.\n\nA number of American institutions owe their existence to the patent medicine industry, most notably a number of the older almanacs, which were originally given away as promotional items by patent medicine manufacturers. Perhaps the most successful industry that grew up out of the business of patent medicine advertisements, though, was founded by William H. Gannett in Maine in 1866. There were few circulating newspapers in Maine in that era, so Gannett founded a periodical, \"Comfort\", whose chief purpose was to propose the merits of \"Oxien\", a nostrum made from the fruit of the baobab tree, to the rural folks of Maine. Gannett's newspaper became the first publication of Guy Gannett Communications, which eventually owned four Maine dailies and several television stations. (The family-owned firm is unrelated to the Gannett Corporation that publishes \"USA Today\".) An early pioneer in the use of advertising to promote patent medicine was New York businessman Benjamin Brandreth, whose \"Vegetable Universal Pill\" eventually became one of the best-selling patent medicines in the United States. “…A congressional committee in 1849 reported that Brandreth was the nation’s largest proprietary advertiser… Between 1862 and 1863 Brandreth’s average annual gross income surpassed $600,000…” For fifty years Brandreth’s name was a household word in the United States Indeed, the Brandreth pills were so well known they received mention in Herman Melville's classic novel \"Moby Dick\".\nAnother publicity method – undertaken mostly by smaller firms – was the \"medicine show,\" a traveling circus of sorts that offered vaudeville-style entertainments on a small scale, and climaxed in a pitch for some sort of cure-all nostrum. \"Muscle man\" acts were especially popular on these tours, for this enabled the salesman to tout the physical vigour the product supposedly offered. The showmen frequently employed shills, who stepped forward from the crowd to offer \"unsolicited\" testimonials about the benefits of the medicine. Often, the nostrum was manufactured and bottled in the wagon in which the show travelled. The Kickapoo Indian Medicine Company became one of the largest and most successful medicine show operators. Their shows had an American Indian or Wild West theme, and employed many American Indians as spokespeople such as the Modoc War scout Donald McKay. The \"medicine show\" lived on in American folklore and Western movies long after they vanished from public life.\n\nSome level of exoticism and mystery in the contents of the preparation was deemed desirable by their promoters. Unlikely ingredients such as the baobab fruit in \"Oxien\" were a recurring theme. A famous patent medicine of the period was \"Dr. Kilmer's Swamp Root\"; unspecified roots found in swamps had remarkable effects on the kidneys, according to its literature.\n\nNative American themes were also useful: natives, imagined to be noble savages, were thought to be in tune with nature, and heirs to a body of traditional lore about herbal remedies and natural cures. One example of this approach from the period was \"Kickapoo Indian Sagwa\", a product of the Kickapoo Indian Medicine Company of Connecticut (completely unrelated to the real Kickapoo Indian tribe of Oklahoma), supposedly based on a Native American recipe. This nostrum was the inspiration for Al Capp's \"Kickapoo Joy Juice,\" featured in the comic strip, \"Li'l Abner\". Another benefit of claiming traditional native origins was that it was nearly impossible to disprove. A good example of this is the story behind Dr. Morse's Indian Root Pills, which was the mainstay of the Comstock patent medicine business. According to text on a wrapper on every box of pills, Dr. Morse was a trained medical doctor who enriched his education by travelling extensively throughout Asia, Africa, and Europe. He supposedly lived among the American Indians for three years, during which time he discovered the healing properties of various plants and roots that he eventually combined into Dr. Morse's Indian Root Pills. No one knows if Dr. Morse ever actually existed.\n\nOther promoters took an opposite tack from timeless herbal wisdom. Nearly any scientific discovery or exotic locale could inspire a key ingredient or principle in a patent medicine. Consumers were invited to invoke the power of electromagnetism to heal their ailments. In the nineteenth century, electricity and radio were gee-whiz scientific advances that found their way into patent medicine advertising, especially after Luigi Galvani showed that electricity influenced the muscles. Devices meant to electrify the body were sold; nostrums were compounded that purported to attract electrical energy or make the body more conductive. \"Violet ray machines\" were sold as rejuvenation devices, and balding men could seek solace in an \"electric fez\" purported to regrow hair. Albert Abrams was a well known practitioner of electrical quackery, claiming the ability to diagnose and treat diseases over long distances by radio. In 1913 the quack John R. Brinkley, calling himself an \"Electro Medic Doctor,\" began injecting men with colored water as a virility cure, claiming it was \"electric medicine from Germany.\" (Brinkley would go on to even greater infamy through transplanting goat testicles into men's scrotums as a virility treatment.)\n\nTowards the end of the period, a number of radioactive medicines, containing uranium or radium, were marketed. Some of these actually contained the ingredients promised, and there were a number of tragedies among their devotees. Most notoriously, steel heir Eben McBurney Byers was a supporter of the popular radium water Radithor, developed by the medical con artist William J. A. Bailey. Byers contracted fatal radium poisoning and had to have his jaw removed in an unsuccessful attempt to save him from bone cancer after drinking nearly 1400 bottles of Bailey's \"radium water.\" Water irradiators were sold that promised to infuse water placed within them with radon, which was thought to be healthy at the time.\n\nContrary to what is often believed, some patent medicines did, in fact, deliver the promised results, albeit with very dangerous ingredients. For example, medicines advertised as \"infant soothers\" contained opium, then a legal drug. Those advertised as \"catarrh snuff\" contained cocaine, also legal. While various herbs, touted or alluded to, were talked up in the advertising, their actual effects often came from procaine extracts or grain alcohol. Those containing opiates were at least effective in relieving pain, coughs, and diarrhea, though they could result in addiction. This hazard was sufficiently well known that many were advertised as causing none of the harmful effects of opium (though many of those so advertised actually did contain opium).\n\nUntil the twentieth century, alcohol was the most controversial ingredient, for it was widely recognised that the \"medicines\" could continue to be sold for their alleged curative properties even in prohibition states and counties. Many of the medicines were in fact liqueurs of various sorts, flavoured with herbs said to have medicinal properties. Some examples include:\n\n\nWhen journalists and physicians began focusing on the narcotic contents of the patent medicines, some of their makers began replacing the opium tincture laudanum with acetanilide, a particularly toxic non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug with analgesic as well as antipyretic properties that had been introduced into medical practice under the name \"Antifebrin\" by A. Cahn and P. Hepp in 1886. But this ingredient change probably killed more of the nostrum's users than the original narcotics did, since acetanilide not only caused an alarming cyanosis due to methemoglobinemia but was later discovered to cause liver and kidney damage.\n\nThe occasional reports of acetanilide-induced cyanosis prompted the search for supposedly less toxic aniline derivatives, such as phenacetin. After several conflicting results over the ensuing fifty years, it was ultimately established in 1948 that acetanilide was mostly metabolized to paracetamol (known in the United States as USAN: acetaminophen) in the human body, and that it was this metabolite that was responsible for its analgesic and antipyretic properties. Acetanilide is no longer used as a drug in its own right, although the success of its metabolite – paracetamol (acetaminophen) – is well known.\n\nPatent medicines were supposedly able to cure just about everything. Nostrums were openly sold that claimed to cure or prevent venereal diseases, tuberculosis, and cancer. \"Bonnore's Electro Magnetic Bathing Fluid\" claimed to cure cholera, neuralgia, epilepsy, scarlet fever, necrosis, mercurial eruptions, paralysis, hip diseases, chronic abscesses, and \"female complaints\". William Radam's Microbe Killer, a product sold widely on both sides of the Atlantic in the 1890s and early 1900s, had the bold claim 'Cures All Diseases' prominently embossed on the front of the bottle. Ebeneezer Sibly ('Dr Sibly') in late 18th and early 19th century Britain went so far as to advertise that his Solar Tincture was able to \"restore life in the event of sudden death\", amongst other marvels.\n\nEvery manufacturer published long lists of testimonials that described their product curing all sorts of human ailments. Fortunately for both makers and users, the illnesses they claimed were cured were almost invariably self-diagnosed – and the claims of the writers to have been healed of cancer or tuberculosis by the nostrum should be considered in this light.\n\nMuckraker journalists and other investigators began to publicize instances of death, drug addiction, and other hazards from the compounds. This took some small courage on behalf of the publishing industry that circulated these claims, since the typical newspaper of the period relied heavily on the patent medicines. In 1905, Samuel Hopkins Adams published an exposé entitled \"The Great American Fraud\" in \"Collier's Weekly\" that led to the passage of the first Pure Food and Drug Act in 1906. This statute did not ban the alcohol, narcotics, and stimulants in the medicines; it required them to be labeled as such, and curbed some of the more misleading, overstated, or fraudulent claims that appeared on the labels. In 1936 the statute was revised to ban them, and the United States entered a long period of ever more drastic reductions in the medications available unmediated by physicians and prescriptions. Morris Fishbein, editor of the Journal of the American Medical Association, who was active in the first half of the 20th century, based much of his career on exposing quacks and driving them out of business.\n\nThe patent medicine makers moved from selling nostrums to selling deodorants and toothpastes, which continued to be advertised using the same techniques that had proven themselves selling nostrums for tuberculosis and \"female complaints.\" One survival of the herbal exoticism that once characterized the patent medicine industry is the marketing of shampoos, which are often promoted as containing perfumes such as vetiver or ylang-ylang, and foods such as mangoes, bananas, or honey; consumers are urged to put these ingredients in their hair despite lack of any evidence that these ingredients do anything other than make the hair smell like the ingredients.\n\nIn more recent years, also, various herbal concoctions have been marketed as \"nutritional supplements\". While their advertisements are careful not to cross the line into making explicit medical claims, and often bear a disclaimer that asserts that the products have not been tested and are not intended to diagnose or treat any disease, they are nevertheless marketed as remedies of various sorts. Weight loss \"while you sleep\" and similar claims are frequently found on these compounds (cf., Calorad, Relacore, etc.). Despite the ban on such claims, salesmen still occasionally (and illegally) make such claims; Jim Bakker, a disgraced televangelist, was noted in 2018 for selling a colloidal silver gel that he claimed cured all venereal diseases. One of the most notorious such elixirs, however, calls itself \"Enzyte\", widely advertised for \"natural male enhancement\" – that is, penis enlargement. Despite being a compound of herbs, minerals, and vitamins, Enzyte formerly promoted itself under a fake scientific name \"Suffragium asotas\". Enzyte's makers translate this phrase as \"better sex,\" but it is in fact ungrammatical Latin for \"refuge for the dissipated\".\n\nA number of brands of consumer products that date from the patent medicine era are still on the market and available today. Their ingredients may have changed from the original formulas; the claims made for the benefits they offer have typically been seriously revised. These brands include:\n\nA number of patent medicines are produced in China. Among the best known of these is Shou Wu Chih, a black, alcoholic liquid that the makers claimed turned gray hair black.\n\nSome consumer products were once marketed as patent medicines, but have been repurposed and are no longer sold for medicinal purposes. Their original ingredients may have been changed to remove drugs, as was done with Coca-Cola. The compound may also simply be used in a different capacity, as in the case of Angostura Bitters, now associated chiefly with cocktails.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6327287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6327287", "title": "Permanent establishment", "text": "Permanent establishment\n\nA permanent establishment (PE) is a fixed place of business which generally gives rise to income or value-added tax liability in a particular jurisdiction. The term is defined in many income tax treaties and in most European Union Value Added Tax systems. The tax systems in some civil-law countries impose income taxes and value-added taxes only where an enterprise maintains a PE in the country concerned. Definitions of PEs under tax law or tax treaties may contain specific inclusions or exclusions.\n\nThe concept of permanent establishment emerged in the German Empire after 1845, culminating with the German Double Taxation Act of 1909. Initially the objective was to prevent double taxation between Prussian municipalities and this was extended to the entire German federation. In 1889, the first bilateral tax treaty, including the concept of permanent establishment, was concluded between the Austro-Hungarian Empire and Prussia, marking the first time the concept was used in international tax law. After years of preparatory works, in 1928, the League of Nations developed a model to tackle cross-border double taxation and to counter tax evasion. Since then, an extensive network of bilateral tax treaty was gradually established, particularly through the influence of the OECD Model Tax Convention, where this concept persisted.\n\nIn the OECD Model Tax Convention, essentially three types of PEs can be construed:\nThe UN Model Tax Convention, which gives greater consideration to developing countries, adds what is known by service permanent establishment in article 5(3)b. Some countries, such as Saudi Arabia, have been trying to extend the concept of service PE into a virtual service PE.\n\nUnder the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project being developed by the OECD and endorsed by the G20, a new nexus based on significant digital presence is being considered under Action 1, aimed at \"Addressing the Tax Challenges of the Digital Economy.\"\n\nThe starting point for determination if a permanent establishment exists is generally a fixed place of business. The definition of permanent establishment in article 5 of the OECD Model Income Tax Treaty is followed in most income tax treaties.\n\nThe commentary indicates that a fixed place of business has three components:\n\nThe requirements of what constitutes a \"'permanent establishment\"' within the scope of a particular treaty depend on what interpretation a particular country places on that term, in context of the text of that treaty. As per Article 3 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties, no one is entitled to claim rights under a particular treaty unless otherwise authorised by the contracting state. Therefore, if a particular contracting state places a different meaning on the term 'permanent establishment' than what the taxpayer seeks to place, the taxpayer would be left with virtually no remedy within that state, other than to seek a mutual agreement to that dispute with the other contracting state to that treaty.\n\nThe OECD Model Tax Convention includes a short indicative list of \"prima facie\" permanent establishments. These, however, are not automatically permanent establishments as the requirements set out, namely, for fixed place of business permanent establishment must be met. The list is as follows:\n\nMany treaties explicitly exclude from the definition of PE places where certain activities are conducted. Generally, these exclusions do not apply if non-excluded activities are conducted at the fixed place of business. Among the excluded activities are:\n\nMany treaties provide specific rules with respect to construction sites. Under those treaties, a building site or construction or installation project constitutes a PE only if it lasts more than a specified length of time. The amount of time varies by treaty.\n\nIn addition, the activities of a dependent agent may give rise to a PE for the principal. Dependent agents may include employees or others under the control of the principal. A company is generally not considered an agent solely by reason of ownership of the agent company by the principal. However, activities of an independent agent generally are not attributed to the principal.\n\nSome treaties deem a PE to exist for an enterprise of one country performing services in the other country for more than a specified length of time or for a related enterprise.\n\nIn October 2015, the OECD released the final reports on the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) project. Action 7 was targeted at \"Preventing the Artificial Avoidance of Permanent Establishment Status\" and proposes a large number of changes that are set to be included in the next version of the OECD Model Tax Convention. The OECD expects many of these changes to be applied to currently existing tax treaties through the work based on Action 15 on \"Developing a Multilateral Instrument to Modify Bilateral Tax Treaties\". A large number of countries are involved in the negotiations that are expected to be concluded by the end of 2016.\n\nThe final report on Action 7 proposes substantial changes to the definition of Agency PE and stricter requirements to the exclusions provision:\"These changes will ensure that where the activities that an intermediary exercises in a country are intended to result in the regular conclusion of contracts to be performed by a foreign enterprise, that enterprise will be considered to have a taxable presence in that country unless the intermediary is performing these activities in the course of an independent business. The changes will also restrict the application of a number of exceptions to the definition of permanent establishment to activities that are preparatory or auxiliary nature and will ensure that it is not possible to take advantage of these exceptions by the fragmentation of a cohesive operating business into several small operations; they will also address situations where the exception applicable to construction sites is circumvented through the splitting-up contracts between closely related enterprises.\"\n"}
{"id": "3223242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3223242", "title": "Principal (commercial law)", "text": "Principal (commercial law)\n\nIn commercial law, a principal is a person, legal or natural, who authorizes an agent to act to create one or more legal relationships with a third party. This branch of law is called agency and relies on the common law proposition qui facit per alium, facit per se (Latin \"he who acts through another, acts personally\").\n\nIt is a parallel concept to vicarious liability and strict liability (in which one person is held liable for the acts or omissions of another) in criminal law or torts.\n\nIn a busy commercial world, the smooth flow of trade depends on the use of agents. This may be because in business entities such as:\nIn the majority of cases, it is impossible for agents to seek specific authority for every deal or detail within a deal. Agents must, of necessity, be allowed some degree of discretion in the conduct of routine transactions. But, for the purposes of ascribing legal responsibility to the Principal, when the Agent acts with actual or apparent authority, all the Agent's knowledge will be imputed to the Principal. If Principals were allowed to hide behind their agents' own ignorance, mistakes or failures to communicate, a Principal could, by using an Agent, achieve a better result than if they acted personally. For example, if the particular deal turned out well, the Principal could adopt the transaction. But, if it turned out badly, the Principal could disavow it. Indeed, if not for imputation, there would be a perverse incentive to conduct business through Agents rather than personally. Consequently, the Principal cannot exploit ignorance to their advantage by instructing the Agent to withhold key information or by appointing an Agent known to be secretive.\n\nThis rule in favour of imputation relates to the duties an Agent owes a Principal, in particular the Agent's duty to communicate material facts to the Principal. Since the purpose of the law is to offer protection to Third Parties who have acted in good faith, it is reasonable to allow them to believe that, in most cases, the Agents have fulfilled this duty. After all, the Principal selects the Agents and has the power to control their actions both through express instructions and incentives intended to influence their behaviour which will include laying down routines for how Agents should handle information, and the extent to which Agents will be rewarded for transmitting information of commercial value. The result is a form of strict liability in which the legal consequences of an Agent's acts or omissions are attributed to a Principal even when the Principal was without fault in appointing or supervising the Agent. Borrowing parallel concepts from Tort and Equity, this means that the Principal owes the Third Party a duty of care to ensure that the Agent is honest and efficient, and that a Principal is estopped from denying that an Agent was authorised to act as they did.\nThere are three classes of Principal:\nFor these purposes, the Principal must give, or be deemed to give, the Agent authority to act.\nEven if the Agent does act without authority, the Principal may ratify the transaction and accept liability on the transactions as negotiated. This may be express or implied from the Principal's behaviour, e.g. if the Agent has purported to act in a number of situations and the Principal has knowingly acquiesced, the failure to notify all concerned of the Agent's lack of authority is an implied ratification to those transactions and an implied grant of authority for future transactions of a similar nature.mithun\n\nIf the Agent has acted without actual authority, but the Principal is nevertheless bound because the Agent had apparent authority, the Agent is liable to indemnify the Principal for any resulting loss or damage.\n\nIf the Agent has acted within the scope of the actual authority given, the Principal must indemnify the Agent for payments made during the course of the relationship whether the expenditure was expressly authorized or merely necessary in promoting the Principal’s business.\n\nThe Third Party is liable to the Principal on the terms of the agreement made with the Agent, unless the Principal was undisclosed and there is clear evidence that either the Agent or the Principal knew that the Third Party would not have entered into the agreement if they had known of the Principal's involvement.\n\nThe relationship between a Principal and an Agent is fiduciary which requires the Agent to be loyal to the Principal. This involves duties:\nIn return, the Principal must make a full disclosure of all information relevant to the transactions that the Agent is authorized to negotiate and pay the Agent either the commission or fee as agreed, or a reasonable fee if none were previously agreed on.\n\nThe principal has the following remedies against the agent for breaching his/her fiduciary duty:\n\nIf the agent wrongfully holds property that should be owned or entitled to the principal, the principal can ask the court to deem it a constructive trust—that the agent is holding the property on behalf of the principal.\n\nThe principal can void contracts negotiated by an agent that breached his or her fiduciary duty.\n\nThe principal can sue the agent for liability caused by the agent's wrongful acts, i.e. if a third party obtained a judgment against the principal for wrongful acts caused by the agent, the principal can sue the agent to recover the loss.\n\nA principal can sue for the negligence of an agent who failed to follow instructions, unless it was simply a failure to follow the principal's \"advice\".\n\nAn Undisclosed principal is an unrevealed one, in a situation involving an undisclosed agency. It is \"a person who uses an agent for his/her negotiations with a third party, often when the agent pretends to be acting for himself/herself.\" In a real estate transaction, this could be any \"major party to a transaction, such as a seller or purchaser of property,\" who wishes to remain anonymous.\n\nSome taxing authorities have created rules regarding tax liability for actions of an undisclosed principal. The undisclosed agency may also affect tort liability.\n\nThe Principal can terminate an Agent's authority at any time without having to give notice. If the trust between the Agent and Principal has broken down, it is not reasonable to allow the Principal to remain at risk in any transactions that the Agent might conclude during a period of notice.\n\nThe analysis of principal-agent relationships is an important topic in economics. The main focus of analysis is on the information asymmetry between the agent, who is assumed to be well informed, and the principal who may not be.\n\n"}
{"id": "3416377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3416377", "title": "Rapporteur", "text": "Rapporteur\n\nA rapporteur is a person who is appointed by an organization to report on the proceedings of its meetings.\n\nFor example, Dick Marty was appointed \"rapporteur\" by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to investigate extraordinary rendition by the CIA.\n\nAuthors of reports prepared by committees of the European Parliament are also known as \"rapporteurs\". Authors of reports assisting a rapporteur in preparation of committees of the European Parliament are known as shadow rapporteurs, and may vary in number depending on the scope of the issue.\n\n\nOxford Online Dictionary"}
{"id": "2821917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2821917", "title": "Redistribution of Seats Act 1885", "text": "Redistribution of Seats Act 1885\n\nThe Redistribution of Seats Act 1885 (48 & 49 Vict., c. 23) was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It was a piece of electoral reform legislation that redistributed the seats in the House of Commons, introducing the concept of equally populated constituencies, a concept in the broader global context termed equal apportionment, in an attempt to equalise representation across the UK. It was associated with, but not part of, the Representation of the People Act 1884.\nThe first major reform of Commons' seats took place under the Reform Act 1832. The second major reform of Commons' seats occurred in three territory-specific Acts in 1867–68: \n\nThe latter United Kingdom set of Acts had fallen short of the Chartist aim to enfranchise and to equalise the electorates. Electoral quotas diverged and the gap by 1885 widened; most starkly in the retention of boroughs of dubious size and a limited attempt at creation of new urban boroughs. In reductions these previous reforms halved rather merged into their surroundings those boroughs (historic towns) having fewer than 10,000 inhabitants as at the 1861 census. In a de-radicalising move a few of largest cities were given three MPs, whereby \"no person shall vote for more than two candidates\". As a result, the net partisan impact of these cities tended to be counterbalanced: for example, a borough formerly represented by two Liberals was now usually represented by two Liberals and one Conservative. In a Commons vote on party lines, the Conservative neutralised one of the Liberals, so that the borough counted for one party-based vote albeit having greater and slightly more equalised non-partisan local issue representation. By contrast the mid-size boroughs with two members such as the new creations — wherever they so happened to have two MPs of the same party — produced twice the voting power in the House as such cities.\n\nBy the 1880s, continued industrial growth and resulting population movements had resulted in an increased imbalance between the constituencies in terms of the numbers of MPs and the population.\n\nWilliam Ewart Gladstone, leading a Liberal government, introduced a Representation of the People Bill in 1884, which sought to greatly extend the franchise but not to alter the boundaries of constituencies. The Liberals had a large majority in the House of Commons, and the measure passed through the House easily. The House of Lords, on the other hand, was dominated by the Conservative Party. The Conservative leader, Lord Salisbury, was opposed to the bill. The majority of the Conservative party's MPs were elected by the counties, with the Liberals being electorally strong in the boroughs. He realised that the bill's extension of household suffrage into the counties would enfranchise many rural voters such as coalminers and agricultural labourers who were likely to vote for the Liberals. This, he claimed, would lead to \"the absolute effacement of the Conservative Party\". Salisbury hoped to use the Conservative majority in the Lords to block the bill and force Gladstone to seek a dissolution of Parliament before the reforms could be enacted. The Lords duly rejected the bill and returned it to the Commons, provoking outrage among the Radical wing of the Liberals. A campaign organised around the slogan \"The Peers Against the People\" called for reform or abolition of the Lords if they rejected the bill a second time.\n\nDuring October 1884 Queen Victoria intervened in what was rapidly becoming a constitutional crisis, urging the party leaders to meet and break the deadlock. Negotiations duly started at Salisbury's London home in Arlington Street, Westminster, between the Conservative leader and Sir Charles Dilke, a member of Gladstone's cabinet. Lord Salisbury agreed to allow the reform bill to pass on condition that a bill to redistribute parliamentary seats was also enacted; the two parties reached an agreement, the \"Arlington Street Compact\", whereby the bulk of MPs would be elected in single-member constituencies. He calculated that this would minimise the adverse effect on the Conservatives of the extension of the vote: dividing the counties would allow Liberal-voting and Conservative-voting districts to be separated. The division of boroughs would allow the suburban areas of towns to be represented separately from the inner cities, allowing the growth of \"Villa Toryism\". Dilke, a member of the Radical (socially progressive) wing of the Liberal Party, also favoured the division of boroughs to weaken the influence of the Whig faction in the party. Before 1885 many existing two-member boroughs one Whig and one Radical were nominated by agreement, often leading to uncontested elections.\n\nThree boundary commissions were appointed in late 1884, one for England and Wales, one for Scotland and one for Ireland. Each commission was given similar instructions.\n\nIn dividing the counties they were to use Ordnance Survey maps and other documents in order to determine the boundaries of divisions. In doing so they were to ensure that each division of a county was to have an equal population \"so far as practicable\". In addition they were instructed \"in all those cases where there are populous localities of an urban character to include them in one and the same division, unless this cannot be done without grave inconvenience, and involving boundaries of a very irregular and objectionable character\". Subject to these rules, the divisions were to be as compact as possible and should be based on \"well known local areas\" such as petty sessional divisions or other aggregations of parishes. If necessary, an individual parish or parishes could be added to existing areas in order to equalise population, but under no circumstances was a parish to be divided. The county divisions were to be named after an \"important town or place\" within it, \"preference being given to any merged borough or boroughs, or when it consists mainly of a well-known area, from that area\". When the commissioners had devised a scheme of divisions for a county the details were to be advertised in the local press. A date would then be announced when one of the commissioners would attend at \"a principal town\" in the county to hear objections or proposed alterations.\n\nThe procedure for boroughs (or burghs in Scotland) was similar. Firstly the commissioners were to determine whether the present boundaries, or the boundaries proposed in the bill, embraced \"the whole of the population which ought to be included within the borough\". They could decide if an area formed a \"community of interest\" with the town and should be included within the borough boundaries. Where suburban areas had a sufficiently large population and distinct identity they might form a county division rather than be included in the borough. If boroughs were extended, existing \"well-established\" boundaries were to be used if possible. Where boroughs were to be divided, the population of each division was to be approximately equal, and \"special regard\" was to be had to the \"pursuits of the population\". This was clearly understood as meaning that working class and middle class parts of towns were to be separated where possible.\n\nThe Bill was introduced to the House of Commons by the Prime Minister William Gladstone on 1 December 1884. The Bill was seen as a compromise measure, and did not include proportional representation. This led to unrest among the Liberals. Leonard Courteney, Financial Secretary to the Treasury, felt forced to resign his post and the party whip. Gladstone had held a meeting with Liberal MPs earlier in the day at the Foreign Office, where he defended the bill. He stated that far from being a compromise it was very much a government bill, and that the discussions with the opposition had been conducted with \"no party bias\". The bill received its second reading on 4 December 1884, and was then sent forward to the committee stage, which was to commence on 19 February 1885. The delay was to allow the boundary commissions to complete their work, with the boundaries and names of the new constituencies to be included as the schedules of the final Act.\n\nIn committee few changes were made to the boundaries recommended by the commissioners. However the committee felt that the proposed names for many of the divisions were unfamiliar, and preferred to use what they termed \"geographical\" names incorporating a compass point. A compromise was made where both were incorporated in the names of many of the constituencies: thus the seat officially called the \"Northern or Biggleswade Division of Bedfordshire\" was informally referred to as \"Biggleswade\", the \"Biggleswade Division\", \"Northern Bedfordshire\" or \"North Bedfordshire\".\n\nThe act received Royal Assent on 25 June, and the provisions of both the redistribution and representation acts first came into use at the 1885 general election.\n\nThe Committee's work coupled with the Arlington Street Compact resulted a major redistribution under the Act as follows:\n\nApart from boundary changes, approximately 160 seats were new (or \"liberated\" as Gladstone described it) in England and Wales. The number of seats in Scotland was increased by 12, and the representation of Ireland in Parliament remained at 103 members, even though its population had declined relative to the rest of the United Kingdom, due to emigration which had continued since the famine. This arrangement was described by \"The Times\" as \"...obviously dictated by a somewhat pusillanimous [weak-hearted] calculation that it was better to avoid a struggle with the Parnellite party.\"\n\nThe reduction in the number of two-member constituencies (elected by the bloc vote system) ended cross-party cooperation: before the Act, in many counties and boroughs the two main parties had agreed to nominate one candidate each, and no election was held. Contested elections became the norm after the Act: 657 of 670 seats were contested at the 1885 general election.\n\nThe division of former two-member constituencies had a direct, clear consequence: it hastened the decline of the domination of Parliament by the aristocracy (formed of those who had won Royal and often military favour and their heirs, many of whom were accurately referred to as the 'landed gentry'). After 1885, for the first time, MPs connected to industry and commerce outnumbered those closely related to the gentry. The Lords immediately stood out therefore as non-representative of the electorate; the \"household suffrage\" of 1885 gave the majority of men the vote; and by the end of 1918 all those aged over 21 could vote and some women. \n\nNonetheless the Lords and their sons, grandsons and nephews in the Commons continued to form the greater part of the Cabinet until the Asquith ministry — further, the Lords legally bore equal strength, save for their inability to initiate bills spending public funds since 1407, until Asquith's constitutional Parliament Act 1911. The Lords could veto bills and propose most types of bills.\n\nImmediate expansion of the working class electorate caused the number of 'Lib/Lab' MPs to rise from 2 in 1874 to 13 in 1885. The Act's new seats saw a 1% single-party swing to the Conservatives and so a gain of only 10 seats and a similar gain of 11 seats by Independent Liberals, the latter often slightly more radical (redistributive) than both mainstream parties.\n\nThe sudden balance of power of the seats held or won by Irish Parliamentary Party candidates galvanised those opposed to Home Rule. This third party power of veto coupled with the end of local electoral pacts in a foreseeable way; Disrael and Gladstone needed central control of their members to pursue narrower narratives and promote differing values. The IPP were often labelled particularly by the media and Conservatives as 'Parnellites'. Their power saw Gladstone make Home Rule his touchstone but, in so doing, distance his party from most peers who, until the House of Lords was flooded with Liberal peers in 1911, preferred conservative policies and guarded their near-equal power. Peers of the Whig persuasion flocked to a conservative line given immediate loss of family ties (hence leverage) in the Commons and tide of reformist policies engulfing the Liberal party caused by the Act's generous franchise and loss of their coveted and often sponsored Whig-Radical and Whig-Conservative dual-member seats in the Commons. In short most peers felt change had gone far and fast enough. The opening words of free thought of the Lords, in its reply to the Queen's Speech came from the Duke of Abercorn who said:-\nLiberal MPs opposing Home Rule rapidly formed a new party to stand at the next election in 1886, the Liberal Unionists who were willing to govern with Conservatives. \n\nLiberals were unable to rely on any Lords' majorities (ratification) on their Bills from 1885 until the Parliament Act 1911. The 1911 Act ended the equal power of the House of Lords forever, constitutionally.\n\n132 small areas (\"parliamentary boroughs\") were merged with part or all of their surrounding county constituency, all of which had previously returned two members. Courted for decades with the promise of for social change, religious freedom and free trade by Liberals, often served by a Radical-leaning alongside and a Whig-leaning MP, these boroughs had few Conservative MPs at most elections. Their substitute single-member seats where gaining suburban and wealthy rural parts particularly assisted the Conservative party, which took a position of national \"strength and unity\" in opposing Chamberlain's \"radicalism\" preferring instead education reform and opposing Gladstone's Home Rule \"crusade\" in favour of budgetary concessions and support for unionist Irish businesses. The ensuing Queens Speech showed the Queen was \"...resolutely opposed [to Irish Home Rule]...convinced that I shall be heartily supported by my Parliament and my people.\"\n\nThe Conservative party thinkers and leaders in both houses had now enfranchised the majority of men trusting them to break the deadlock in their favour; in return they had espoused religious freedom and almost completely free trade. The Liberal Party may have won the 1885 General Election however the new Lords heavy antipathy and the Irish question tore the party apart.\n\nThe majority of multi-member seats saw cooperation before 1885 whereas under the new one-MP-per-constituency norm, cooperation as patron and protégé or to attract opposing voters was futile. Whig and the most progressive Radical candidates could now be branded \"weak\", \"divided\" or \"distanced\" from the line of Gladstone and his successors which proved a flaw in the broad congregation of the Liberal Party until the formation of the final splinter group of 1931. Conservatives depicted Gladstone's dogged advancement of Home Rule, notably his failed first and second Irish Home Rule bills in 1886 and 1893, an open dissent from Her Majesty, as the root cause of Liberal Party disintegration. This unorthodoxy combined with heavy defeats on other Commons bills in the House of Lords which began to hemorrhage more Whigs led to electoral landslide victories for the Conservative party in 1886 and 1895 to break the deadlock.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37481949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37481949", "title": "Religious qualifications for public office in the United States", "text": "Religious qualifications for public office in the United States\n\nReligious qualifications for public office in the United States have always been prohibited at the national level of the federal system of government under the Constitution. Article VI of the Constitution of the United States declares that \"no religious test shall ever be required as a qualification to any office or public trust under the United States\". The First Amendment of the Constitution also prevents the Congress of the United States from making any law \"respecting an establishment of religion\" (the Establishment Clause).\n\nNeither the First Amendment nor Article VI, however, were originally applied to the individual states, and individual restrictions were utilized by individual states to prevent Jews, Catholics, and atheists from occupying public offices. State-level requirements for public office were not entirely abolished until 1961, when the Supreme Court of the United States struck down religious qualifications for all public officeholders in its decision in \"Torcaso v. Watkins\", a case concerning an atheist's right to serve as a notary public under a Maryland law requiring public officials to declare they believed in God. However, eight states still have language in their constitutions that requires such qualifications.\n\nThe history of religious qualifications for public office in the United States dates back to the British colonial period. The history of anti-Semitism in Europe dates back to Roman times. The Jews were expelled from England when King Edward I issued the Edict of Expulsion of 1290. While some returned once Lord Protector Oliver Cromwell encouraged Jews to return to Britain in the 1650s, they remained a discriminated minority within the United Kingdom. England experienced multiple waves of strong anti-Catholicism after the Protestant Reformation, and the Anglican faith became the state religion of the English Kingdom after supplanting a period of Catholicism. Ruled by the British Empire until 1776, colonial America was dominated by English political and religious influence. In Maryland, Anglicanism was established as the official religion from 1702. The colony's Catholic subjects were barred from both voting and holding public office, although the right to worship privately was granted in 1712.\n\nReligious requirements for political office in the United States were unconstitutional on the national level of the federal system of government established by the Constitution of the United States since the ratification of the articles of the Constitution in 1788. The No Religious Test Clause of Article VI of the Constitution expressly stated that \"no religious test shall ever be required as a qualification to any office or public trust under the United States\". Additionally, the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment of the United States Constitution, explicitly prohibiting the Congress of the United States from making any law \"respecting an establishment of religion\", was ratified as part of the Bill of Rights only a few years later. Neither protected the civil rights safeguarded by the Constitution from the authorities of the individual states of the United States, as the Constitution was only deemed to apply to the central government of the country. The state governments were therefore able to legally exclude persons from holding public offices on religious grounds.\n\nAs a result of the incorporation of the Bill of Rights after the American Civil War, the protections of the Bill of Rights were extended to the individual states on the basis of the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution. \n\nState requirements for political office were not entirely abolished until 1961, when the Supreme Court of the United States rejected a provision of the Maryland State Constitution requiring all public officeholders to declare a belief in God in the case of \"Torcaso v. Watkins\". Roy Torcaso, an atheist, had filed suit in Maryland to establish his right to become a notary public without swearing his belief in God, as demanded by the Maryland Constitution. After being rebuffed, Torcaso went to the Supreme Court, which ruled unanimously that the state's religious restriction was invalid as a violation of guaranteed constitutional rights.\n\nAlthough the \"Torcaso\" decision dismissed enforcement of religious requirements for office as unconstitutional in the United States, antiquated provisions barring atheists from occupying political offices were not immediately stricken from state legislation. As a result, a number of lawsuits were initiated after 1961 to secure the right to hold public office without conforming to religious requirements. These cases followed the United States Supreme Court's precedent.\n\nIn 1997, the Supreme Court of South Carolina decided the case of \"Silverman v. Campbell\", likewise following the Supreme Court ruling in \"Torcaso v. Watkins\". The court held that Article VI, section 2 of the South Carolina State Constitution (\"No person who denies the existence of the Supreme Being shall hold any office under this Constitution\") and Article XVII, section 4 (\"No person who denies the existence of a Supreme Being shall hold any office under this Constitution\") could not be enforced as articles in conflict with the Constitution of the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46986057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46986057", "title": "Right to family life", "text": "Right to family life\n\nThe right to family life is the right of all individuals to have their established family life respected, and to have and maintain family relationships. This right is recognised in a variety of international human rights instruments, including Article 16 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Article 23 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, and Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights.\n\nThe changing concept of family requires a subjective definition of what family entails. There is no contest that the relationship between husband and wife, unmarried (de facto) partners, parents and children, siblings, and ‘near relatives’ such as between grandparents and grandchildren represents family as required under the right to family life. Challenge exists where modern forms of family relationships have developed that the law has not yet explicitly recognised. The “existence… of family life is a question of fact” and is decided subjectively under each factual scenario. The European Court of Human Rights has stated that when considering what constitutes family relationships the Court “must necessarily take into account developments in society and changes in the perception of social, civil-status and relational issues, including the fact that there is not just one way or one choice in the sphere of leading and living one’s family or private life”. Established family ties can be broken.\n\nThe right to marry is closely related to the right to family life, however the two rights are not identical. The right to marry is explicitly provided for in all human rights instruments, essentially providing that all people have the right to marry and found a family. The right to family life predominantly refers to an individual's right to create and maintain their family relationships. It was clarified in \"X, Y and Z v United Kingdom\" that in the situation where a spouse has been deported from their partner's State due to their nationality, there is no infringement on the right to marry as the individuals are already married, and so the right to family life must be considered.\n\nThe main area of conflict arises between the ability of States to control entry and residence within its borders and the impact this control has over an individual’s right to family life. Within international law the general principle holds that a State has the right to regulate entry and residence within its own territory. When this power of control results in the deportation of an individual, this may cause a breach of an individual's right to stay with their family. This conflict occurs where the immigrant is the spouse, parent or relative of a State's citizen, and the State wishes to remove or refuse entry to the immigrant. When a challenge is brought forward to the Courts or monitoring bodies, a balance must be struck between the rights of the State to enforce immigration laws and maintain public order, and the impact the enforcement of said laws will have on an individual's right to family life. It has been emphasised that it is not the task of monitoring bodies to “supervise the government's immigration policy, but to examine whether the applicant’s right to respect for family life had been ensured without discrimination”.\n\nBoth Article 16 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Article 23 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights provide basis for the right to family life as a fundamental human right.\n\nThe Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 10 December 1948, clarifying universal rights held by all individuals regardless of subjective factors. Arguably the UDHR now represents customary international law, and as such has legally binding force over States.\n\nThe pertinent provision relating to the right to family lies in Article 16(3) of the UDHR:\n\nThe International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on the 16 December 1966, and came into force on the 23 March 1976. As at May 2016 there are 168 State parties to the ICCPR, giving effect to the civil and political rights of individuals within their borders. Articles 17 and 23(1) ICCPR refer to the right to family:\n\nArticle 17:\nArticle 23(1):\nThe Human Rights Committee has noted that the protection of the family and its members is also directly and indirectly guaranteed by other Articles within the Covenant in addition to Articles 17 and 23, such as protection of the child under Article 24.\n\n\"Winata v Australia\" \n\nThis case was based on applications made by Hendrick Winata and So Lan Li under Articles 17, 23(1) and 24(1) of the ICCPR alleging that the removal of Winata and Li from Australia, where their adolescent son held residency, would amount a violation of their fundamental human rights, specifically that of their right to family. Both Winata and Li were living illegally in Australia, and were facing deportation by the State. It was claimed that through either the separation of Winata and Li from their son through deportation, or the forced removal of the whole family unit to Indonesia, there would be interference with the fundamental family unit that was not compatible with the State's protection obligations to the right to family under the ICCPR. Australia argued that the application was inadmissible and incompatible with the provisions of the ICCPR, emphasising the ICCPR provides protection “only [to] a right to family life, not a right to family life in a particular country.” The majority view of the Human Rights Committee found in favour of Winata and Li, holding that while individuals may not have the right to decide where they reside, States are obligated to protect all of the rights within the ICCPR. The Committee recognised the importance of State's control over immigration within their territory, however this discretion is “not unlimited”. It was held that deportation of Winata and Li would constitute a violation of Article 17 and 23(1) ICCPR.\n\nPrior to this case international practice indicated that it was for States to determine who could reside in their territory, even where an infringement of Article 23 would arguably occur. The Committee’s decision in this instance challenges this assumption, indicating that an individual's right to family life receives precedence over States’ ability to control residence within their territory.\n\nThe International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR) was also adopted by the General Assembly on 16 December 1966, however it did not enter into force till nine years after it opened for signature on 3 January 1976. Article 10(1) provides for the right to family:\n\nWithin Europe the European Convention on Human Rights and the European Social Charter stand as foundational human rights instruments.\n\nArticle 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) states:\n\nThe Article imposes both positive and negative obligations on States; not only is the State required to protect its constituents from arbitrary interference in family life by public authorities, it must also provide within its domestic legal system safeguards that allow the development of a “normal family life”. It is clear that Article 8 applies to both “legitimate” and “illegitimate” family, with no distinction between the two qualifications within the Convention.\n\n\"EM (Lebanon) (FC) v. Secretary of State for the Home Department\"\n\nThis case involved a second appeal against a decision of the Secretary of State for the Home Department that EM and her son (AF) must return to Lebanon, the appellant’s country of origin. EM had fled from Lebanon with AF following a violent marriage and resulting divorce. Under Lebanese Shari’a law, the physical custody of the child must be transferred to the father or a male family member once the child reaches seven years of age. AF was over the age of seven, and so would have all custodial rights transferred to his paternal father upon return to Lebanon. EM argued that the forced removal to Lebanon by the United Kingdom would result in a direct breach of both her and AF’s right to family life under Article 8 of the ECHR. The Court held that removal of the appellant and her son to Lebanon would violate both EM and AF’s Article 8 rights, and granted the appeal. This decision is significant, representing the first successful Article 8 claim in a foreign case.\n\nThe European Social Charter (the Charter) is the counterpart to the European Convention on Human Rights, providing for fundamental social and economic rights under a Council of Europe treaty. The Charter also provides for the right to family under Article 16, reaffirming European parties commitment to the right:\n\nThe American Convention on Human Rights is a regional human rights treaty that similarly provides for the right to family life under Article 17(1):\nThe protection of the family and vulnerable groups is specified under the African Charter on Human and People’s Rights in Article 18, stating:\nThe African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights was adopted by the Organisation of African Unity in 1981 and entered into force on 21 October 1986.\n\nWithin the United Kingdom the right to family life is a ‘qualified right’ under the Human Rights Act 1998. This qualification allows a public authority to interfere with the right to family life if it is in protection of others' rights or in the interest of the wider community. On 9 July 2012 new Immigration Rules came into effect within the United Kingdom, affording greater weight to the States' ability to control entry and residence as compared to the individual right to family life. There is a presumption that decisions made under the Immigration Rules will breach Article 8 of the ECHR only in “genuinely exceptional circumstances”. This presumption significantly limits individual’s ability to successfully challenge decisions they believe have breached their fundamental right to family life.\n\n"}
{"id": "22393240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22393240", "title": "Seasilver", "text": "Seasilver\n\nSeasilver is the trademarked name of a commercial dietary supplement produced and sold by the companies Seasilver USA, Inc. and Americaloe, Inc.\n\nThe product was promoted with the false claim that it could \"cure 650 diseases\", resulting in the prosecution and fining of the companies' owners.\n\nIn 2002 the US Food and Drug Administration sent a warning letter to the product's promoters for making unsubstantied health claims.\n\nIn 2003 US$5.6 million worth of product was seized by the FDA and in the following year the company owners were issued with an order banning them for falsely promoting the Seasilver product, and fining them US$120 million, suspended to US$3 million if the fine was paid promptly. Following non-payment and a failed appeal, the full fine of US$120 million was re-affirmed by a ruling in 2008.\n\nThe Seasilver product includes a variety of ingredients including pau d'arco, cranberry and aloe. According to the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, \"no studies have shown the efficacy of this costly product\", and Quackwatch say there is \"no logical reason to use the product\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13804392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13804392", "title": "Self-executing right", "text": "Self-executing right\n\nSelf-executing rights in international human rights law are rights that are formulated in such a way that one can deduce that it was the purpose to create international laws that citizens can invoke directly in their national courts. Self-executing rights, or directly applicable rights, are rights which, from the viewpoint of international law, do not require transformation into national law. They are binding as such and national judges can apply them as such, as if they were national rules. From the viewpoint of national law, it may be required that all international law be incorporated into national law before becoming valid. This depends on the national legal tradition.\n\nIn order to decide whether a rule is self-executing or not, one must only look at the rule in question. National traditions do not count. A rule that says that states should guarantee freedom of expression to its citizens is self-executing. A rule that says that states should take all the necessary measures to create enough employment is not. Non-self-executing rules of international law only impose the obligation on states to take measures and to create or alter legislation. Citizens or national judges cannot invoke these rules (and demand employment as in the previous example) in a national court. This means that international law that is not self-executing must be transformed into national law in order to take effect.\n\nThe priority of international law remains a fact whether this law is or is not self-executing. A state cannot invoke its national law as a reason not to respect its international obligations. In case of non-self-executing rules, it is obliged to change its national law or to take certain measures. It violates international law if it does not do so. In this case, a national judge can only decide that their state should modify national law or take certain measures. They cannot invalidate national law that contradicts non-self-executing international law. They can only declare national law null and void if it contradicts self-executing international rights.\n\nMost human rights contained in the main human rights treaties are self-executing and can be invoked by individuals in a national courtroom, although this is the case more for civil rights than for economic and social rights.\n"}
{"id": "36585679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36585679", "title": "State Institute of Canon Law of the dioceses in Germany", "text": "State Institute of Canon Law of the dioceses in Germany\n\nThe Institut für Staatskirchenrecht der Diözesen Deutschlands (Institute for Church–State Relations of the Dioceses in Germany) is a legal research institution of the Roman Catholic church based in Bonn, Germany. It was founded in 1970 by the German Bishops' Conference and is now run by the Association of German Dioceses.\n\nThe Institute was founded in 1970 by the German Bishops' Conference under the auspices of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Essen. The founding director was the Jesuit Joseph List, supported by Heiner and Karl Eugen Schlief Marré. Since 1975, it has been run by the Association of German Dioceses (German: \"Verband der Diözesen Deutschlands\", or VDD).\n\nThe purpose of the Institute is the academic study of the public law on state–church relations in theory and practice. In addition to providing legal advice to church organizations and providing information on legal developments in the field of state–church relations, the Institute is tasked with observing the development of the relationship between state, religion and the Church. \n\nThe Institute is supported by a scientific advisory board that includes Josef Isensee (Chair) and Christian Starck.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17110325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17110325", "title": "Supreme Court of the Soviet Union", "text": "Supreme Court of the Soviet Union\n\nThe Supreme Court of the Soviet Union () was the highest court of the Soviet Union during its existence. The Supreme Court of the USSR included a Military Collegium and other elements which were not typical of supreme courts found in other countries, then or now.\n\n"}
{"id": "36125372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36125372", "title": "Taus v. Loftus", "text": "Taus v. Loftus\n\nTaus v. Loftus, 151 P.3d 1185 (Cal. 2007) was a Supreme Court of California case in which the court held that academic researchers' publication of information relating to a study by another researcher was newsworthy and subject to protection under the state's anti-SLAPP act. The court noted that the defendants had not disclosed the plaintiff's name and that Nicole Taus had disclosed it herself when she filed the case under her own name. The court did find that Taus had alleged a \"prima facie\" case that Loftus had misrepresented herself during the investigation and that this one count may proceed to trial.\n\nThe case involved the initial research of David Corwin into child sexual abuse and repressed memory in 1997. Elizabeth F. Loftus and Melvin J. Guyer were skeptical of the research and investigated the claims that Corwin made. In 2002, Loftus and Guyer published the results of their inquiry, and Taus filed a defamation and invasion of privacy lawsuit the following year.\n\nAfter winning at the California Supreme Court, Taus settled with Loftus for minimal amount to avoid being liable for attorney fees. Taus remained liable for the attorney fees of the other defendants.\n\nIn 1997, psychiatrists David Corwin and Erna Olafson published a case study known as the Jane Doe case, which became an influential work in regards to child sexual abuse and repressed memory. It was used for educational and research purposes as well as an example in civil and criminal law cases. The study was based on three videotaped interviews conducted in 1984 by Corwin in a child custody case where the father alleged sexual abuse of the then six-year-old child (Jane Doe) by the mother. The study interspersed the interviews with Corwin's analysis and his conclusion that the mother sexually abused Jane and falsely accused the father of sexual abuse. The study also indicated that it had access to and used reports from Child Protective Services, the police, court files and other evaluators. The study also had an interview from eleven years later, in 1995. In the 1995 interview, Jane did not initially remember the 1984 interviews or the alleged abuse. After viewing the videotapes of the 1984 interviews, Jane recalled the alleged abuse more clearly, although there were several inconsistencies. Corwin presented the study as evidence of the recovery of repressed memory.\n\nAfter the case was published, Elizabeth Loftus and Melvin J. Guyer started an investigation about the background of the case, being skeptical about its validity. Using legal databases and public records, they found the people involved and interviewed them, uncovering crucial information that was omitted from the original study. An example of the omitted information was that this was in the middle of a five year custody battle, including court actions from the father's violations of visitation orders. Another example was the fact that Child Protective Services had conducted an investigation but had not removed Jane from her mother's custody, nor were there any reports of abuse from burned feet or hospital visits. Loftus and Guyer were also able to document the background of both the father and his new wife (stepmother) and issues that weighed on their credibility. The conclusion of the research indicated that Jane was probably not abused by her mother, and her memories were result of suggestions and coercion by her father and stepmother, as they were trying to win a custody battle against the biological mother.\n\nEven before the findings were published, Nicole Taus, the \"Jane Doe\" of the study, complained about invasion of privacy to the University of Washington where Loftus worked as a professor. The university started an investigation against Loftus about scientific misconduct and impounded all the files. The procedure lasted twenty-one months, and during this time Loftus was not allowed to discuss or write about the case or give any information about the investigation. Melvin Guyer was also subject of similar investigation at the University of Michigan. When the investigations were over, and the researchers were cleared from the charge of misconduct, the results were published in the \"Skeptical Inquirer\" in 2002 in a two part article.\n\nThe case was filed in the Superior Court for Solano County by Taus in February 2003 against Loftus, Guyer, Carol Tavris, Harvey Shapiro, the University of Washington, and the \"Skeptical Inquirer\". In the complaint, Taus identified herself as a Lieutenant Junior Grade in the United States Navy. Taus sued for infliction of emotional distress, invasion of privacy, fraud, and defamation. The first two claims were filed against all the defendants, fraud was filed against Loftus and the university only, and defamation was filed against Loftus and Tavris only. There were twenty-one causes of action within these four categories. Loftus and the other defendants moved to dismiss the lawsuit on anti-SLAPP grounds, which the trial court approved in part and denied in part. The court denied the motion as to the infliction of emotional distress and invasion of privacy claims for all defendants. It dismissed the fraud action against Loftus, but not the other defendants, and the defamation claim against Tavris. The defendants then appealed.\n\nThe case was then heard by the California Court of Appeals, First District, Division 2. The court noted that the debate in the scientific community was on-going over the validity of repressed memory. The court stated that Taus failed to carry her burden as to the tort of negligent infliction of emotional distress. The court ruled that Taus had made a valid claim against Loftus and Shapiro for invasion of privacy. The court also noted that Taus failed to show that the publication of the article invaded her privacy, but comments made at seminars or conferences were actionable. The court stated that Taus did not prove the falsity of the statements published, but that some of the defamation claim (as to Loftus) was still supportable. Again, the defendants appealed.\n\nThe defense lawyer argued that the suit interfered with constitutional rights as well as hindering research with important implication for public policy. The defendants also argued that the case was a strategic lawsuit against public participation (SLAPP) and offered the defense contained in the state's anti-SLAPP law. Taus argued that she wasn't a public figure and that the defendants had invaded her privacy.\n\nChief Justice Ronald M. George delivered the opinion of the court. George stated that the matter was of public interest and continuing debate, and was therefore covered by the anti-SLAPP statute. This left only one claim against Loftus, allegedly misrepresenting herself while interviewing Taus's foster mother. Out of the twenty-one counts, twenty were dismissed, leaving one claim regarding Loftus misrepresenting herself as Corwin's colleague and supervisor while interviewing Taus's foster mother.\n\nIf Taus lost the last claim, she would have faced a bill of the five years of litigation, which came to $450,578.50, but she made an offer to Loftus to drop the case against her. The lawsuit was settled in August 2007 with an agreement that Taus would withdraw the remaining claim, and Loftus's insurance company would pay a nuisance settlement of $7,500 to Taus. Since Taus has lost the majority of her claims, she was still required to cover the cost of the legal fees ($241,872) of the defendants.\n\nIn 2014, a series of articles discussing \"Taus v. Loftus\" and its implications for case study research in psychology was published in the \"Journal of Interpersonal Violence\", including articles by Nicole Taus Kluemper, Laura S. Brown, Ross E. Cheit, Constance J. Dalenberg, Gerald Koocher, Erna Olafson, and Frank W. Putnam. The article by Taus (Kluemper) recounts her story of the case and concludes: \"If I had one wish, it would not be to go back in time and un-file my lawsuit against Loftus et al., and it would not be to refuse to be the subject of a case report; it would be that no one ever be forced to endure such a violation of confidentiality again, particularly not at the hand of a psychologist.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "12116091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12116091", "title": "The Antitrust Paradox", "text": "The Antitrust Paradox\n\nThe Antitrust Paradox is a 1978 book by Robert Bork that criticized the state of United States antitrust law in the 1970s. A second edition, updated to reflect substantial changes in the law, was published in 1993. It is claimed that the work is the most cited book on antitrust. Bork has credited Aaron Director as well as other economists from the University of Chicago as influences.\n\nBork argues that the original intent of antitrust laws as well as economic efficiency makes consumer welfare and the protection of competition, rather than competitors, the only goals of antitrust law. Thus, while it was appropriate to prohibit cartels that fix prices and divide markets and mergers that create monopolies, practices that are allegedly exclusionary, such as vertical agreements and price discrimination, did not harm consumers and so should not be prohibited. The paradox of antitrust enforcement was that legal intervention artificially raised prices by protecting inefficient competitors from competition.\n\nThe book was cited by over a hundred courts. From 1977 to 2007, the Supreme Court of the United States repeatedly adopted views stated in \"The Antitrust Paradox\" in such cases as \"Continental Television v. GTE Sylvania\", 433 U.S. 36 (1977), \"Broadcast Music Inc. v. Columbia Broadcasting System, Inc.\", \"NCAA v. Board of Regents of Univ. of Oklahoma\", \"Spectrum Sports, Inc. v. McQuillan\", \"State Oil Co. v. Khan\", \"Verizon v. Trinko\", and \"Leegin Creative Leather Products, Inc. v. PSKS, Inc.\", legalizing many practices previously prohibited.\n\n\"The Antitrust Paradox\" has shaped antitrust law in several ways, prominently by focusing the discipline on efficiency and articulating its goal as \"consumer welfare.\" Many lawyers and economists, however, have pointed out that Bork was wrong in his analysis of the legislative intent of the Sherman Act and have criticized him for incorrect economic assumptions and analytical errors. One of the key criticisms focuses on Bork's use of the term \"consumer welfare,\" which became the stated goal of American antitrust law.\n\nBork argues that Congress enacted the Sherman Act as a \"consumer welfare prescription.\" The Supreme Court embraced this view in \"Reiter v. Sonotone Corp.\", 442 U.S. 330 (1979) and in all subsequent decisions. Many scholars, however, have shown that Congress had several motives for the adoption of the Sherman Act, probably none of which was \"consumer welfare.\" Moreover, Bork's use of the term \"consumer welfare\" was inconsistent with its use by economists. When the Supreme Court adopted the view that Congress enacted the Sherman Act as a \"consumer welfare prescription,\" it did not define the meaning of the term, which has remained ambiguous.\n\n"}
{"id": "3926754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3926754", "title": "Timeline of major U.S. environmental and occupational health regulation", "text": "Timeline of major U.S. environmental and occupational health regulation\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23530204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23530204", "title": "Union Pacific Railway Co. v. Botsford", "text": "Union Pacific Railway Co. v. Botsford\n\nUnion Pacific Railway Company v. Botsford, 141 U.S. 250 (1891), was a case before the United States Supreme Court.\n\nA railroad passenger, Clara L. Botsford, sustained permanent injuries to her brain and spinal cord when a berth from a sleeping car fell upon her head. She sued the railroad for negligence in the construction of the railroad car which allegedly caused her injuries. The Union Pacific Railway Company claimed that it was entitled, without her consent, to an opportunity to surgically examine her to determine her diagnosis and the extent of her injuries.\n\nThe court disagreed, holding that there was no authority under the common law or statutory law for the trial court to order such an examination: \"No right is held more sacred, or is more carefully guarded by the common law, than the right of every individual to the possession and control of his own person, free from all restraint or interference of others, unless by clear and unquestionable authority of law.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "77954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77954", "title": "Waqf", "text": "Waqf\n\nA waqf (), also known as habous or \"mortmain\" property, is an inalienable charitable endowment under Islamic law, which typically involves donating a building, plot of land or other assets for Muslim religious or charitable purposes with no intention of reclaiming the assets. The donated assets may be held by a charitable trust. The person making such dedication is known as \"waqif\", a donor. In Ottoman Turkish law, and later under the British Mandate of Palestine, the \"waqf\" was defined as usufruct State land (or property) of which the State revenues are assured to pious foundations. Although based on several hadiths and presenting elements similar to practices from pre-Islamic cultures, it seems that the specific full-fledged Islamic legal form of endowment called \"waqf\" dates from the 9th century CE (see paragraph \"History and location\").\n\nIn Sunni jurisprudence, \"waqf\", also spelled \"wakf\" (, pronounced ; \"plural\" , \"awqāf\"; ) is synonymous with \"ḥabs\" (also called \"ḥubs\" or \"ḥubus\" and commonly rendered \"habous\" in French). \"Habs\" and similar terms are used mainly by Maliki jurists. In Twelver Shiism, \"ḥabs\" is a particular type of \"waqf\", in which the founder reserves the right to dispose of the waqf property. The person making the grant is called \"al-waqif\" (or \"al-muhabbis\") while the endowed assets are called \"al-mawquf\" (or \"al-muhabbas\").\n\nThe term waqf literally means \"confinement and prohibition\" or causing a thing to stop or stand still. The legal meaning of Waqf according to Imam Abu Hanifa, is the detention of a specific thing in the ownership of waqf and the devoting of its profit or products \"in charity of poors or other good objects\".\n\nImam Abu Yusuf and Muhammad say: Waqf signifies the extinction of the waqif's ownership in the thing dedicated and detention of all the thing in the implied ownership of God, in such a manner that its profits may revert to or be applied \"for the benefit of Mankind\".\n\nBahaeddin Yediyıldız defines the waqf as a system which comprises three elements: \"hayrat\", \"akarat\" and \"waqf\". Hayrat, the plural form of\n\"hayr\", means “goodnesses” and refers to the motivational factor behind vakıf organization;\n\"akarat\" refers to corpus and literally means ”real estates” implying revenue-generating sources, such as markets (\"bedesten\"s, \"arasta\"s, \"han\"s, etc.), land, baths; and waqf, in its narrow sense, is the institution(s) providing services as committed in the vakıf deed such as \"madrasa\"s, public kitchens (\"imarets\"), \"karwansaray\"s, mosques, libraries, etc.\n\nThere is no direct injunction of the Qur'an regarding Waqf, which is derived from a number of hadiths (traditions of Muhammad). One says, \"Ibn Umar reported, Umar Ibn Al-Khattab got land in Khaybar, so he came to the prophet Muhammad and asked him to advise him about it. The Prophet said, 'If you like, make the property inalienable and give the profit from it to charity.'\" It goes on to say that Umar gave it away as alms, that the land itself would not be sold, inherited or donated. He gave it away for the poor, the relatives, the slaves, the jihad, the travelers and the guests. And it will not be held against him who administers it if he consumes some of its yield in an appropriate manner or feeds a friend who does not enrich himself by means of it.\n\nIn another hadith, Muhammad said, \"When a man dies, only three deeds will survive him: continuing alms, profitable knowledge and a child praying for him.\"\n\nIslamic law puts several legal conditions on the process of establishing a waqf.\n\nA waqf is a contract, therefore the founder (called \"al-wāqif\" or \"al-muḥabbis\" in Arabic) must be of the capacity to enter into a contract. For this the founder must:\n\nAlthough waqf is an Islamic institution, being a Muslim is not required to establish a waqf, and dhimmis may establish a waqf. Finally if a person is fatally ill, the waqf is subject to the same restrictions as a will in Islam.\n\nThe property (called \"al-mawqūf\" or \"al-muḥabbas\") used to found a waqf must be objects of a valid contract. The object should not be illegal in Islam (e.g. wine or pork). Finally these objects should not already be in the public domain. Thus, public property cannot be used to establish a waqf. The founder cannot also have pledged the property previously to someone else. These conditions are generally true for contracts in Islam.\n\nThe property dedicated to waqf is generally immovable, such as estate. All movable goods can also form waqf, according to most Islamic jurists. The Hanafis, however, also allow most movable goods to be dedicated to a waqf with some restrictions. Some jurists have argued that even gold and silver (or other currency) can be designated as waqf.\n\nThe beneficiaries of the waqf can be persons and public utilities. The founder can specify which persons are eligible for benefit (such the founder's family, entire community, only the poor, travelers). Public utilities such as mosques, schools, bridges, graveyards and drinking fountains can be the beneficiaries of a waqf. Modern legislation divides the waqf as \"charitable causes\", in which the beneficiaries are the public or the poor) and \"family\" waqf, in which the founder makes the beneficiaries his relatives. There can also be multiple beneficiaries. For example, the founder may stipulate that half the proceeds go to his family, while the other half go to the poor.\n\nValid beneficiaries must satisfy the following conditions:\n\nThere is dispute over whether the founder himself can reserve exclusive rights to use waqf. Most scholars agree that once the waqf is founded, it can't be taken back.\n\nThe Ḥanafīs hold that the list of beneficiaries include a perpetual element; the waqf must specify its beneficiaries in case.\n\nThe declaration of founding is usually a written document, accompanied by a verbal declaration, though neither are required by most scholars. Whatever the declaration, most scholars (those of the Hanafi, Shafi'i, some of the Hanbali and the Imami Shi'a schools) hold that it is not binding and irrevocable until actually delivered to the beneficiaries or put in their use. Once in their use, however, the waqf becomes an institution in its own right.\n\nUsually a waqf has a range of beneficiaries. Thus, the founder makes arrangements beforehand by appointing an administrator (called \"nāẓir\" or \"mutawallī\" or \"ḳayyim\") and lays down the rules for appointing successive administrators. The founder may himself choose to administer the waqf during his lifetime. In some cases, however, the number of beneficiaries are quite limited. Thus, there is no need for an administrator, and the beneficiaries themselves can take care of the waqf.\n\nThe administrator, like other persons of responsibility under Islamic law, must have capacity to act and contract. In addition, trustworthiness and administration skills are required. Some scholars require that the administrator of this Islamic religious institution be a Muslim, though the Hanafis drop this requirement.\n\nWaqf is intended to be perpetual and last forever. Nevertheless, Islamic law envisages conditions under which the waqf may be terminated: \n\nThe practices attributed to Muhammad have promoted the institution of waqf from the earliest part of Islamic history.\n\nThe two oldest known \"waqfiya\" (deed) documents are from the 9th century, while a third one dates from the early 10th century, all three within the Abbasid Period. The oldest dated \"waqfiya\" goes back to 876 CE, concerns a multi-volume Qur'an edition and is held by the Turkish and Islamic Arts Museum in Istanbul. A possibly older \"waqfiya\" is a papyrus held by the Louvre Museum in Paris, with no written date but considered to be from the mid-9th century. The next oldest document is a marble tablet whose inscription bears the Islamic date equivalent to 913 CE and states the \"waqf\" status of an inn, but is in itself not the original deed; it is held at the Eretz Israel Museum in Tel Aviv.\nThe earliest pious foundations in Egypt were charitable gifts, and not in the form of a \"waqf\". The first mosque built by 'Amr ibn al-'As is an example of this: the land was donated by Qaysaba bin Kulthum, and the mosque's expenses were then paid by the \"Bayt al-mal\". The earliest known \"waqf\", founded by financial official Abū Bakr Muḥammad bin Ali al-Madhara'i in 919 (during the Abbasid period), is a pond called Birkat Ḥabash together with its surrounding orchards, whose revenue was to be used to operate a hydraulic complex and feed the poor.\n\nEarly references to Wakf in India, can be found in 14th century CE work, \"Insha-i-Mahru\" by Aynul Mulk Ibn Mahru. According to the book, Sultan Muizuddin Sam Ghaor (f. 1195–95 A.D.) dedicated two villages in favor of Jama Masjid, Multan, and, handed its administration to the Shaikhul Islam (highest ecclesiastical officer of the Empire). In the coming years, several more wakfs were created, as the Delhi Sultanate flourished.\n\nAs per Wakf Act 1954 (later Wakf Act 1995\n) enacted by Government of India, Wakfs are categorized as (a) Wakf by user such as Graveyards, \"Musafir Khanas\" (Sarai) and \"Chowltries\" etc., (b) Wakf under \"Mashrutul-khidmat\" (Service Inam) such as \"Khazi\" service, \"Nirkhi\" service, \"Pesh Imam\" service and \"Khateeb\" service etc., and (c) \"Wakf Alal-aulad\" is dedicated by the Donor (\"Wakif\") for the benefit of their kith and kin and for any purpose recognised by Muslim law as pious, religious or charitable. After the enactment Wakf Act 1954, the Union government directed to all the states governments to implement the Act for administering the wakf institutions like mosques, \"dargah\", \"ashurkhanas\", graveyards, \"takhiyas\", \"iddgahs\", \"imambara\", \"anjuman\"s and various religious and charitable institutions. A statutory body under Government of India, which also oversees State Wakf Boards. In turn the State Wakf Boards work towards management, regulation and protect the Wakf properties by constituting District Wakf Committees, Mandal Wakf Committees and Committees for the individual Wakf Institutions. As per the report of Sachar Committee (2006) there are about 500,000 registered Wakfs with land in India, and Rs. 60 billion book value.\n\nThe \"waqf\" institutions were not popular in all parts of the Muslim world. In West Africa, very few examples of the institution can be found, and were usually limited to the area around Timbuktu and Djenné in Massina Empire. Instead, Islamic west African societies placed a much greater emphasis on non-permanent acts of charity. According to expert Illife, this can be explained by West Africa's tradition of \"personal largesse.\" The imam would make himself the collection and distribution of charity, thus building his personal prestige.\n\nAccording to Hamas, all of historic Palestine is an Islamic waqf, which translates as a \"prohibition from surrendering or sharing\".\n\nAfter the Islamic waqf law and madrassah foundations were firmly established by the 10th century, the number of Bimaristan hospitals multiplied throughout Islamic lands. By the 11th century, many Islamic cities had several hospitals. The waqf trust institutions funded the hospitals for various expenses, including the wages of doctors, ophthalmologists, surgeons, chemists, pharmacists, domestics and all other staff, the purchase of foods and medicines; hospital equipment such as beds, mattresses, bowls and perfumes; and repairs to buildings. The waqf trusts also funded medical schools, and their revenues covered various expenses such as their maintenance and the payment of teachers and students.\n\nThe \"waqf\" in Islamic law, which developed in the medieval Islamic world from the 7th to 9th centuries, bears a notable resemblance to the English trust law. Every \"waqf\" was required to have a \"waqif\" (founder), \"mutawillis\" (trustee), \"qadi\" (judge) and beneficiaries. Under both a \"waqf\" and a trust, \"property is reserved, and its usufruct appropriated, for the benefit of specific individuals, or for a general charitable purpose; the corpus becomes inalienable; estates for life in favor of successive beneficiaries can be created\" and \"without regard to the law of inheritance or the rights of the heirs; and continuity is secured by the successive appointment of trustees or \"mutawillis\".\"\n\nThe only significant distinction between the Islamic \"waqf\" and English trust was \"the express or implied reversion of the \"waqf\" to charitable purposes when its specific object has ceased to exist\", though this difference only applied to the \"waqf ahli\" (Islamic family trust) rather than the \"waqf khairi\" (devoted to a charitable purpose from its inception). Another difference was the English vesting of \"legal estate\" over the trust property in the trustee, though the \"trustee was still bound to administer that property for the benefit of the beneficiaries.\" In this sense, the \"role of the English trustee therefore does not differ significantly from that of the \"mutawalli\".\"\n\nPersonal trust law developed in England at the time of the Crusades, during the 12th and 13th centuries. The Court of Chancery, under the principles of equity, enforced the rights of absentee Crusaders who had made temporary assignments of their lands to caretakers. It has been speculated that this development may have been influenced by the \"waqf\" institutions in the Middle East.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29573261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29573261", "title": "Wine shipping laws in the United States", "text": "Wine shipping laws in the United States\n\nWine shipping laws in the United States differ between states. About half of the states permit some form of direct shipping from wineries to consumers, although various regulations apply to these cases, and laws in both the sender's and receiver's jurisdictions may apply. For example, vendors are often limited to 24 nine-liter cases of wine shipped annually to any person for personal use, and shipment of wine to dry counties is illegal.\n\nDirect shipments of wine are generally prohibited in Alabama. However, individual consumers may receive such shipments by obtaining prior written approval from the Alcoholic Beverage Control Board. The shipment must be consigned, with freight charges prepaid, directly to the individual in care of an ABC store.\n\nWine can be shipped from Alaska to all states, except for certain boroughs in-state and certain counties in Massachusetts, Tennessee and West Virginia.\n\nConsumers in Arizona are limited to two cases shipped directly to them annually. Effective September 18, 2003, Arizona has an \"On-Site Law,\" requiring any consumer accepting a direct shipment of wine to have physically visited the winery during the past calendar year, paying for all future orders in person. However, wineries producing fewer than 20,000 gallons of wine per year can apply for a direct-to-consumer permit for unlimited on-site and off-site sales.\n\nDirect shipment of wine is prohibited in Arkansas for off-site sales; consumers may place on-site orders for shipment at wineries.\n\nWine can be shipped from California to all states, except for certain counties in Alaska, Massachusetts, Tennessee and West Virginia. The California Wine Export Program provides electronic reports and documentation on export markets, as well as general information on exporting wine.\n\nSince July 1, 2006, wineries shipping to Colorado are required to obtain a direct shipping permit. There are no limits on the amount of shipments individuals can receive for personal use.\n\nDirect shipment of wine is allowed in Delaware.\n\nSince July 1, 2006, wineries have been required have a permit and pay taxes to ship directly to consumers in Idaho. Wineries must also register with the Idaho Tax Commission and abide by monthly reporting requirements.\n\nCarriers refuse to ship wine directly to Kentucky consumers, due to the difficulty of distinguishing dry areas from \"wet\" ones. Shipping wine to dry areas in Kentucky is a felony offense.\n\nWineries shipping directly to Louisiana consumers must pay sales tax and possess a direct-to-consumer permit from the Louisiana Department of Revenue. In order to qualify for direct-to-consumer shipping, the wine(s) in question must not be distributed by any wholesaler.\n\nGovernor Martin O'Malley signed legislation on May 10, 2011 to legalize direct shipment of wine in Maryland. The law went into effect on July 1, 2011.\n\nOn January 14, 2010, the case of FWC v. Jenkins in Boston struck down limits on wine shipments to Massachusetts. Despite that ruling, wine shipments to Massachusetts were largely impossible until January 1, 2015, when direct shipping from wineries to Massachusetts became allowed by law.\n\nLicensing is required for shippers and there is a yearly limit per customer of 12 cases from each winery.\n\nWineries may ship, for personal use and not for resale, not more than two cases of wine, containing a maximum of nine liters per case, in any calendar year to any resident of Minnesota age 21 or over. Minnesota began allowing direct shipping by all licensed wineries in June 2005.\n\nDirect shipment of wine is prohibited in Mississippi.\n\nCarriers FedEx and UPS do not ship wine to consumers in Montana, because as of October 1, 2001, state law requires consumers to have a connoisseur's license to receive such shipments. Buyers are limited to 12 cases from out of state wineries per year, and wineries must register with the state to ship to connoisseurs.\n\nOn April 12, 2013, the Governor of Montana signed Montana House Bill 402 into law. The new law, which takes effect October 1, 2013, replaces the State's flawed \"Connoisseur License\" system and allows registered wineries to sell and ship wine directly to Montana consumers.\n\nWineries that make less than 250,000 gallons of wine annually, which includes all of the New Jersey's wineries, are allowed to ship up to 12 cases of wine to per year to any person over the age of 21 in New Jersey or any other state that allows wine shipments. However, this law prohibits 90% of wine made in the United States from being shipped to New Jersey residents.\n\nNevada adults are limited to receiving 12 cases of wine annually per household for personal use. Wineries must register with the state, pay additional fees for shipments over 200 cases, and designate a wholesaler for any shipment of 25 cases or more.\n\nConsumers in New Mexico are limited to two cases shipped directly to them annually.\n\nWineries with certain permits may ship no more than two cases of wine monthly to a resident of North Carolina for personal use. Wineries are required to make shipments through a preapproved common carrier and supply a list of brands sold in the state.\n\nConsumers in Ohio may receive up to 24 9-liter cases of wine per household per year, for personal consumption only, from wineries producing less than 250,000 gallons of wine annually. The wineries must obtain the appropriate permit in order to ship to Ohio.\n\nDirect shipment of wine is prohibited in Oklahoma for off-site sales; consumers may place on-site orders for shipment at wineries. On-site orders are limited to 1 liter of wine per month.\n\nWine can be shipped from Oregon to all states, except for certain counties in Alaska, Massachusetts, Tennessee and West Virginia.\n\nPennsylvania residents may receive up to 36 cases (up to nine liters per case) per year of wine shipped by a wine producer licensed by the PLCB as a direct wine shipper. The 36-case annual limit is per direct wine shipper, and wine may be shipped to home or business addresses.\n\nDirect-shipped wine must be for personal use, and anyone who resells direct-shipped wine is subject to fines and criminal penalties.\n\nDirect-shipped wine is subject to state and local sales tax and a $2.50 per gallon wine excise tax.\n\nDirect wine shippers are required to verify proof of age of the recipient of the wine prior to shipping.\n\nAs of August 8, 2016, direct-shipped wine need not be wines not otherwise available for sale by the PLCB.\n\nPermit-holding wineries are allowed to ship no more than 24 bottles of wine monthly to an adult resident in South Carolina, and they must abide by annual reporting requirements.\n\nWineries may ship no more than one case per month, nor three per year, directly to an individual consumer in Tennessee. They must also register with the state.\n\nBefore shipping to a consumer in Texas, wineries must have permits from the state government. Consumers are limited to receiving nine gallons monthly and no more than 36 gallons annually.\n\nDirect shipment of Wine to consumers in Utah is prohibited and classified as a felony. Adult residents returning from foreign country are permitted to bring no more than one quart of wine with them. Individuals moving to the state are not limited to the amount of wine they may bring, as long as the taxes have been paid and cleared by the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control.\n\nConsumers in Virginia are limited to receiving up to two cases of wine per month. Wineries must be licensed with the ABC and abide by monthly reporting requirements.\n\nWine can be shipped from Washington to all states, except for certain counties in Alaska, Massachusetts, Tennessee and West Virginia.\n\nIn order to ship to a resident of West Virginia, a winery must have a license from the state of WV, as well as a Letter of Good Standing from the winery's own state. Licensed wineries are limited to shipping two cases of wine to a consumer per month, and advertising the availability of shipment of wine to West Virginia consumers is prohibited.\n\nAs of July 1, 2001, out of state shippers are permitted to ship a maximum of two cases of wine to a Wyoming household; these wineries must also register with the Department of Revenue Liquor Division and abide by monthly reporting requirements.\n\n"}
{"id": "44491067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44491067", "title": "Witters v. Washington Department of Services for the Blind", "text": "Witters v. Washington Department of Services for the Blind\n\nWitters v. Washington Department of Services for the Blind, 474 U.S. 481 (1986), is a decision by the Supreme Court of the United States in which the Court ruled that the Establishment Clause did not prevent the state of Washington from providing financial vocational assistance to a blind man who sought to study at a Christian college to become a pastor, missionary, or youth pastor. The Court ruled that the Establishment Clause does not prevent financial assistance from a state vocational rehabilitation program from being used for religious instruction.\n\nLarry Witters was eligible under Washington state law to receive financial assistance to pursue vocational instruction. At the time, he was attending a private Bible college with the intent to pursue a career as a pastor, missionary, or youth minister. The Commission for the Blind denied him aid on the basis that the Washington State Constitution barred state funds from being used to assist an individual in pursuit of a career or degree in theology. The Washington Supreme Court sustained the Commission's decision but used the US Constitution as the basis for its decision.\n\nIn a 9-0 holding, the Court ruled in favor of Witters. The Court reasoned that the test established in \"Lemon v. Kurtzman\" was applicable and that aid to Witters would meet the \"Lemon\" test. The Court found that there was a clear secular purpose to the law. Also, the Court ruled that the primary effect of the statute was an effect on Witters, not religion. Finally, the case was ruled to have no entanglement with religion since the decision as to where the aid money would be spent was made solely by the individual, not by any government agency so the Establishment Clause was not violated.\n\nWitters was represented by Michael P. Farris. Timothy R. Malone represented the respondent.\n"}
{"id": "251412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=251412", "title": "Workers' compensation", "text": "Workers' compensation\n\nWorkers' compensation is a form of insurance providing wage replacement and medical benefits to employees injured in the course of employment in exchange for mandatory relinquishment of the employee's right to sue their employer for the tort of negligence. The trade-off between assured, limited coverage and lack of recourse outside the worker compensation system is known as \"the compensation bargain\". One of the problems that the compensation bargain solved is the problem of employers becoming insolvent as a result of high damage awards. The system of collective liability was created to prevent that, and thus to ensure security of compensation to the workers. Individual immunity is the necessary corollary to collective liability.\n\nWhile plans differ among jurisdictions, provision can be made for weekly payments in place of wages (functioning in this case as a form of disability insurance), compensation for economic loss (past and future), reimbursement or payment of medical and like expenses (functioning in this case as a form of health insurance), and benefits payable to the dependents of workers killed during employment.\n\nGeneral damage for pain and suffering, and punitive damages for employer negligence, are generally not available in workers' compensation plans, and negligence is generally not an issue in the case. These laws were first enacted in Europe and Oceania, with the United States following shortly thereafter.\n\nLaws regarding workers compensation vary by country, but the Workers’ Accident Insurance system put into place by Otto von Bismarck in 1881 is often cited as a model for Europe and later the United States.\n\nWorkers' compensation statutes are intended to eliminate the need for litigation and the limitations of common law remedies by having employees give up the potential for pain- and suffering-related awards, in exchange for not being required to prove tort (legal fault) on the part of their employer. The laws provide employees with monetary awards to cover loss of wages directly related to the accident as well as to compensate for permanent physical impairments and medical expenses.\n\nThe laws also provide benefits for dependents of those workers who are killed in work-related accidents or illnesses. Some laws also protect employers and fellow workers by limiting the amount an injured employee can recover from an employer and by eliminating the liability of co-workers in most accidents. US state statutes establish this framework for most employment. US federal statutes are limited to federal employees or to workers employed in some significant aspect of interstate commerce.\n\nThe exclusive remedy provision states that workers compensation is the sole remedy available to injured workers, thus preventing employees from also making tort liability claims against their employers.\n\nIn common law nations, the system was motivated by an \"unholy trinity\" of tort defenses available to employers, including contributory negligence, assumption of risk, and the fellow servant rule.\n\nCommon law imposes obligations on employers to provide a safe workplace, provide safe tools, give warnings of dangers, provide adequate co-worker assistance (fit, trained, suitable \"fellow servants\") so that the worker is not overburdened, and promulgate and enforce safe work rules.\n\nClaims under the common law for worker injury are limited by three defenses afforded employers:\n\n\nAs Australia experienced a relatively influential labour movement in the late 19th and early 20th century, statutory compensation was implemented very early in Australia. Each territory has its own legislation and its own governing body.\n\nA typical example is Work Safe Victoria, which manages Victoria's workplace safety system. Its responsibilities include helping employees avoid workplace injuries occurring, enforcement of Victoria's occupational and safety laws, provision of reasonably priced workplace injury insurance for employers, assisting injured workers back into the workforce, and managing the workers' compensation scheme by ensuring the prompt delivery of appropriate services and adopting prudent financial practices.\n\nCompensation law in New South Wales has recently (2013) been overhauled by the state government. In a push to speed up the process of claims and to reduce the amount of claims, a threshold of 11% WPI (whole person impairment) was implemented.\n\nWorkers' compensation regulators for each of the states and territories are as follows:\n\nEvery employer must comply with the state, territory or commonwealth legislation, as listed below, which applies to them:\n\nThe National Social Insurance Institute (in Portuguese, Instituto Nacional do Seguro Social – INSS) provides insurance for those who contribute. It is a public institution that aims to recognize and grant rights to its policyholders. The amount transferred by the INSS is used to replace the income of the worker taxpayer, when he or she loses the ability to work, due to sickness, disability, age, death, involuntary unemployment, or even pregnancy and imprisonment. During the first 15 days the worker's salary is paid by the employer and after that by the INSS, as long as the inability to work lasts. Although the worker's income is guaranteed by the INSS, the employer is still responsible for any loss of working capacity, temporary or permanent, when found negligent or when its economic activity involves risk of accidents or developing labour related diseases.\n\nWorkers' compensation was Canada's first social program to be introduced as it was favoured by both workers' groups and employers hoping to avoid lawsuits. The system arose after an inquiry by Ontario Chief Justice William Meredith who outlined a system in which workers were to be compensated for workplace injuries, but must give up their right to sue their employers. It was introduced in the various provinces at different dates. Ontario was first in 1915, Manitoba in 1916, and British Columbia in 1917. It remains a provincial responsibility and thus the rules vary from province to province. In some provinces, such as Ontario's Workplace Safety and Insurance Board, the program also has a preventative role ensuring workplace safety. In British Columbia, the occupational health and safety mandate (including the powers to make regulation, inspect and assess administrative penalties) is legislatively assigned to the Workers' Compensation Board of British Columbia WorkSafeBC. In most provinces the workers' compensation board or commission remains concerned solely with insurance. The workers' compensation insurance system in every province is funded by employers based on their payroll, industry sector and history of injuries (or lack thereof) in their workplace (usually referred to as \"experience rating\").\n\nThe German worker's compensation law of 6 July 1884, initiated by Chancellor Otto von Bismarck, was passed only after three attempts and was the first of its kind in the world. Similar laws passed in Austria in 1887, Norway in 1894, and Finland in 1895.\n\nThe law paid indemnity to all private wage earners and apprentices, including those who work in the agricultural and horticultural sectors and marine industries, family helpers and students with work-related injuries, for up to 13 weeks. Workers who are totally disabled get continued benefits at 67 percent after 13 weeks, paid by the accident funds, financed entirely by employers.\n\nThe German compensation system has been taken as a model for many nations.\n\n\"Main article\" : The Workmen's Compensation Act 1923\n\nThe Indian worker's compensation law 1923 was introduced on 5 March 1923. It includes Employer's liability compensation, amount of compensation. Workmen Compensation Insurance covers employees under Workmen Compensation Act, Fatal Accident Act and common law.\n\nWorkers' accident compensation insurance is paired with unemployment insurance and referred to collectively as labour insurance. Workers' accident compensation insurance is managed by the Labor Standards Office.\n\nThe Workmen's Compensation Act 1952 is modelled on the United Kingdom's Workmen's Compensation Act 1906. Adopted before Malaysia's independence from the UK, it is now used only by non-Malaysian workers, since citizens are covered by the national social security scheme.\n\nThe Mexican Constitution of 1917 defined the obligation of employers to pay for illnesses or accidents related to the workplace. It also defined social security as the institution to administer the right of workers, but only until 1943 was the Mexican Social Security Institute created (IMSS). Since then, IMSS manages the Work Risks Insurance in a vertically integrated fashion: registration of workers and firms, collection, classification of risks and events, and medical and rehabilitation services. A reform in 1997 defined that contributions are related to the experience of each employer. Public sector workers are covered by social security agencies with corporate and operative structures similar to those of IMSS.\n\nIn New Zealand, all companies that employ staff and in some cases others, must pay a levy to the Accident Compensation Corporation, a Crown entity, which administers New Zealand's universal no-fault accidental injury scheme. The scheme provides financial compensation and support to citizens, residents, and temporary visitors who have suffered personal injuries.\n\nGreat Britain followed the German model. Joseph Chamberlain, leader of the Liberal Unionist party and coalition with the Conservatives, designed a plan that was enacted under the Salisbury government in 1897. the Workmen's Compensation Act 1897 was a key domestic achievement. It served its social purpose at no cost to the government, since compensation was paid for by insurance which employers were required to take out. The system operated from 1897 to 1946. It was expanded to include industrial diseases by the Workmen's Compensation Act 1906 and replaced by a state compensation scheme under the National Insurance (Industrial Injuries) Act 1946. Since 1976, this state scheme has been set out in the UK's Social Security Acts.\n\nWork related safety issues in the UK are supervised by the Health and Safety Executive (HSE) who provide the framework by which employers and employees are able to comply with statutory rules and regulations.\n\nWith the exception of the following, all employers are obliged to purchase compulsory Employer's Liability Insurance in accordance with the Employer's Liability (Compulsory Insurance) Act 1969. The current minimum limit of indemnity required is £5,000,000 per occurrence. Market practice is to usually provide a minimum £10,000,000 with inner limits to £5,000,000 for certain risks, e.g. workers on oil rigs and acts of terrorism.\n\nThese employers do not require Employer's Liability Insurance:\n\n\"Employees\" are defined as anyone who has entered into or works under a contract of service or apprenticeship with an employer. The contract may be for manual labour, clerical work or otherwise, it may be written or verbal and it may be for full-time or part-time work.\n\nThese persons are not classed as employees and, therefore, are exempt:\n\nEmployees need to establish that their employer has a legal liability to pay compensation. This will principally be a breach of a statutory duty or under the tort of negligence. In the event that the employer is insolvent or no longer in existence, compensation can be sought directly from the insurer under the terms of the Third Parties (Rights against Insurers) Act 2010.\n\nFor the history of worker's compensation in the UK, see Workmen's Compensation Act 1897 and following acts.\n\nIn the United States, some form of workers compensation is typically compulsory in most states (depending upon the features of the organization), with the notable exception of Texas as of 2018. Regardless of compulsory requirements, businesses may purchase insurance voluntarily, and in the United States policies typically include Part One for compulsory coverage and Part Two for non-compulsory coverage. By 1949, every state had enacted a workers' compensation program.\n\nIn most states, workers compensation claims are handled by administrative law judges, who often act as triers of fact.\n\nWorkers compensation statutes which emerged in the early 1900s were struck down as unconstitutional until 1911 when Wisconsin passed a law was not struck down; by 1920, 42 states had passed workers compensation laws.\n\n"}
