{"id": "48732740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48732740", "title": "Akademi Kreyòl Ayisyen", "text": "Akademi Kreyòl Ayisyen\n\nThe (), known in English as the Haitian Creole Academy, is the language regulator of Haitian Creole. It is composed of up to 55scholars under the leadership of Pauris Jean‑Baptiste.\n\nThe Haitian Creole language did not have any regulation until the 1940s, when former Haitian president, Élie Lescot made attempts at standardizing the language. It had an official orthography by the late 1970s, and it was elevated to being the official language in the 1987 Haitian Constitution. The language still lacked an academy to regulate its evolution until about 25 years later.\n\nIn December 2014, the Haitian president and legislation approved of the establishment of the Haitian Creole Academy. 33 scholars came together and formed the organization to form a uniformed syntax, to ensure the Haitian government is able to better communicate with its people, lead the way for more publications of books and various other forms of media, and to end the stigma behind speaking the language. The AKA recently published a new alphabet and \n\nThe allows for anywhere from 33 to 55or members. , they included the following:\n"}
{"id": "18463762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18463762", "title": "Argentine Patriotic League", "text": "Argentine Patriotic League\n\nThe Argentine Patriotic League (\"Liga Patriótica Argentina\") was a \"Nacionalista\" paramilitary group, officially created in Buenos Aires on January 16, 1919, during the Tragic week events. Presided over by Manuel Carlés, a professor at the Military College and the \"Escuela Superior de Guerra\", it also counted among its members the deputy Santiago G. O'Farrell (1861-1926). The League was merged into the Argentine Civic Legion in 1931. The Argentine Patriotic League formed part of a larger movement of patriotic leagues active in Chile and Argentina during the early 20th century.\n\nComposed of wealthy youth, the League assaulted workers' neighborhoods, including the Jewish Once neighborhood of Buenos Aires. It received military training by members of the Argentine Armed Forces, was subsidised by important members of the oligarchy, and supported by the Church. The League worked hand-in-hand with the Bonaerense police forces in the repression of social movements. Some of its members were also members of the Radical Party.\n\nIt quickly extended itself throughout Argentina, on a nationalist, xenophobic, anti-Communist and anti-Semitic program. They attacked in particular Catalans (accused of being anarchists) and Jews (accused of being Bolsheviks).\n\nAt its height in the early 1920s, the League's so-called brigades contained as many as 300,000 members throughout the country.\n\nThe League counted with the official support of the admiral and Minister of Marine Manuel Domecq García.\n\nThe League participated to the events known as \"Patagonia rebelde\" or \"Patagonia Trágica\" (1921-1922), in Río Gallegos, during which 1,500 workers in strike were assassinated.\n\nIt also participated to José Félix Uriburu's 1930 military coup, which initiated the Infamous Decade.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15775663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15775663", "title": "Assassination of Julius Caesar", "text": "Assassination of Julius Caesar\n\nThe assassination of Julius Caesar was the result of a conspiracy by many Roman senators led by Gaius Cassius Longinus, Decimus Junius Brutus Albinus, and Marcus Junius Brutus. They stabbed Caesar (23 times) to death in a location adjacent to the Theatre of Pompey on the Ides of March 15 March 44 BC. Caesar was the Dictator of the Roman Republic, having recently been declared \"dictator perpetuo\" by the Senate of the Roman Republic. This declaration made several senators fear that Caesar wanted to overthrow the Senate in favour of totalitarianism. The conspirators were unable to restore the Roman Republic, and the ramifications of the assassination led to the Liberators' civil war and ultimately to the Principate period of the Roman Empire.\n\nBiographers describe tension between Caesar and the Senate, and his possible claims to the title of king. These events were the principal motive for Caesar's assassination.\nThe Senate named Caesar \"dictator perpetuo\" (\"dictator in perpetuity\"). Roman mints produced a denarius coin with this title and his likeness on one side, and with an image of the goddess Ceres and Caesar's title of \"Augur Pontifex Maximus\" on the reverse. According to Cassius Dio, writing over 200 years later, a senatorial delegation went to inform Caesar of new honours they had bestowed upon him in 44 BC. Caesar received them while sitting in the Temple of Venus Genetrix, rather than rising to meet them.\n\nSuetonius wrote (almost 150 years later) that Caesar failed to rise in the temple, either because he was restrained by Cornelius Balbus or that he balked at the suggestion he should rise. Suetonius also gave the account of a crowd assembled to greet Caesar upon his return to Rome. A member of the crowd placed a laurel wreath on the statue of Caesar on the Rostra. The tribunes Gaius Epidius Marullus and Lucius Caesetius Flavus ordered that the wreath be removed as it was a symbol of Jupiter and royalty. Caesar had the tribunes removed from office through his official powers. According to Suetonius, Caesar was unable to dissociate himself from the royal title from this point forward. Suetonius also gives the story that a crowd shouted to him \"rex\" (\"king\"), to which Caesar replied, \"I am Caesar, not Rex\" (\"Ego caesar, non rex.\"). Also, at the festival of the Lupercalia, while he gave a speech from the Rostra, Mark Antony, who had been elected co-consul with Caesar, attempted to place a crown on his head several times. Caesar put it aside to use as a sacrifice to \"Jupiter Optimus Maximus\".\n\nPlutarch and Suetonius are similar in their depiction of these events, but Dio combines the stories, writing that the tribunes arrested the citizens who placed diadems or wreaths on statues of Caesar. He then places the crowd shouting \"rex\" on the Alban Hill with the tribunes arresting a member of this crowd as well. The plebeian protested that he was unable to speak his mind freely. Caesar then brought the tribunes before the senate and put the matter to a vote, thereafter removing them from office and erasing their names from the records.\n\nSuetonius adds that Lucius Cotta proposed to the Senate that Caesar should be granted the title of \"king\", for it was prophesied that only a king would conquer Parthia. Caesar intended to invade Parthia, a task that later gave considerable trouble to Mark Antony during the second triumvirate.\n\nHis many titles and honors from the Senate were ultimately merely that: honorary. Caesar continually strove for more power to govern, with as little dependence as possible on honorary titles or the Senate. The placating and ennobling of Caesar did not allay ultimate confrontation, as the Senate was still the authority granting Caesar his titles. Formal power resided in them, resulting in tension with Caesar.\n\nBrutus began to conspire against Caesar with his friend and brother-in-law Gaius Cassius Longinus and other men, calling themselves the \"Liberatores\" (\"Liberators\"). Many plans were discussed by the group, as documented by Nicolaus of Damascus:\n\nNicolaus writes that in the days leading up to the assassination, Caesar was told by doctors, friends, and even his wife, Calpurnia, not to attend the Senate on the Ides for various reasons, including medical concerns and troubling dreams Calpurnia had:\nCaesar had been preparing to invade the Parthian Empire (a campaign later taken up by his successor, Mark Antony) and planned to leave for the East in the latter half of March. This forced a timetable onto the conspirators. Two days before the actual assassination, Cassius met with the conspirators and told them that, should anyone discover the plan, they were to turn their knives on themselves. His successors did attempt the conquests of Parthia and Germania, but without lasting results.\n\nOn the Ides of March of 44 BC, a day used by the Romans as a deadline for settling debts, the conspirators staged a game of gladiatorial sport at the Theatre of Pompey. The gladiators were provided by Decimus Brutus in case their services were needed. They waited in the great hall of the theatre's quadriportico. Caesar, however, was late, having received several warnings in the previous days. Therefore, Decimus Brutus was sent to fetch him, and managed to persuade Caesar to attend so as not to disappoint the Senate. Mark Antony, having vaguely learned of the plot the night before from a terrified \"Liberator\" named Servilius Casca, and fearing the worst, went to head Caesar off. The plotters, however, had anticipated this and, fearing that Antony would come to Caesar's aid, had arranged for Trebonius to intercept him just as he approached the portico of the Theatre of Pompey, where the session was to be held, and detain him outside (Plutarch, however, assigns this action to delay Antony to Decimus Brutus). When he heard the commotion from the Senate chamber, Antony fled.\n\nAccording to Plutarch, as Caesar arrived at the Senate, Lucius Tillius Cimber presented him with a petition to recall his exiled brother. The other conspirators crowded round to offer their support. Both Plutarch and Suetonius say that Caesar waved him away, but Cimber grabbed Caesar's shoulders and pulled down Caesar's toga. Caesar then cried to Cimber, \"Why, this is violence!\" (\"Ista quidem vis est!\"). At the same time, Casca produced his dagger and made a glancing thrust at the dictator's neck. Caesar turned around quickly and caught Casca by the arm. According to Plutarch, he said in Latin, \"Casca, you villain, what are you doing?\" Casca, frightened, shouted \"Help, brother!\" in Greek (\", \"adelphe, boethei\"\"). Within moments, the entire group, including Brutus, were stabbing the dictator. Caesar attempted to get away, but, blinded by blood in his eyes, he tripped and fell; the men continued stabbing him as he lay defenseless on the lower steps of the portico. According to Eutropius, sixty or more men participated in the assassination. Caesar was stabbed 23 times. Suetonius relates that a physician who performed an autopsy on Caesar established that only one wound (the second one to his chest that pierced his aorta) had been fatal. This autopsy report (the earliest known post-mortem report in history) describes that Caesar's death was mostly attributable to blood loss from his stab wounds.\n\nCaesar was killed at the base of the Curia in the Theatre of Pompey.\n\nThe dictator's last words are a contested subject among scholars and historians. Suetonius himself says he said nothing, nevertheless, he mentions that others have written that Caesar's last words were the Greek phrase \"\" (transliterated as \"Kai su, teknon?\": \"You too, child?\" in English). Plutarch also reports that Caesar said nothing, pulling his toga over his head when he saw Brutus among the conspirators. The version best known in the English-speaking world is the Latin phrase \"Et tu, Brute?\" (\"You too, Brutus?\"); this derives from William Shakespeare's \"Julius Caesar\" (1599), where it actually forms the first half of a macaronic line: \"\"Et tu, Brute?\" Then fall, Caesar.\" This has no basis in historical fact. Shakespeare was making use of a phrase already in common use at the time.\n\nAccording to Plutarch, after the assassination, Brutus stepped forward as if to say something to his fellow senators not involved in the plot; they, however, fled the building. Brutus and his companions then marched to the Capitol while crying out to their beloved city: \"People of Rome, we are once again free!\". They were met with silence, as the citizens of Rome had locked themselves inside their houses as soon as the rumour of what had taken place had begun to spread. According to Suetonius, all the conspirators made off, and he (Caesar) lay there lifeless for some time, and finally three common slaves put him on a litter and carried him home, with one arm hanging down.\n\nA wax statue of Caesar was erected in the Forum displaying the 23 stab wounds. A crowd who had amassed there started a fire, which badly damaged neighboring buildings. In the ensuing years, the Liberators' civil war resulted in the end of the Republic and the rise of Imperial Rome.\n\nVirgil wrote in the \"Georgics\" that several unusual events took place following Caesar's assassination.\n\nTwo days after the assassination, Mark Antony summoned the senate and managed to work out a compromise in which the assassins would not be punished for their acts, but all of Caesar's appointments would remain valid. By doing this, Antony most likely hoped to avoid large cracks in government forming as a result of Caesar's death. Simultaneously, Antony diminished the goals of the conspirators. The result unforeseen by the assassins was that Caesar's death precipitated the end of the Roman Republic. The Roman lower classes, with whom Caesar was popular, became enraged that a small group of aristocrats had sacrificed Caesar. Antony, who had been drifting apart from Caesar, capitalised on the grief of the Roman mob and threatened to unleash them on the Optimates, perhaps with the intent of taking control of Rome himself. But, to his surprise and chagrin, Caesar had named his grandnephew Gaius Octavius his sole heir, bequeathing him the immensely potent Caesar name as well as making him one of the wealthiest citizens in the Republic. Upon hearing of his adoptive father's death, Octavius abandoned his studies in Apollonia and sailed across the Adriatic Sea to Brundisium. Octavius became \"Gaius Julius Caesar Octavianus\" or Octavian, the son of the great Caesar, and consequently also inherited the loyalty of much of the Roman populace. Octavian, aged only 18 at the time of Caesar's death, proved to have considerable political skills, and while Antony dealt with Decimus Brutus in the first round of the new civil wars, Octavian consolidated his tenuous position. Antony did not initially consider Octavius a true political threat due to his young age and inexperience, but Octavius quickly gained the support and admiration of Caesar's friends and supporters.\n\nTo combat Brutus and Cassius, who were massing an enormous army in Greece, Antony needed soldiers, the money from Caesar's war chests, and the legitimacy that Caesar's name would provide for any action he took against them. With passage of the Lex Titia on 27 November 43 BC, the Second Triumvirate was officially formed, composed of Antony, Octavian, and Caesar's Master of the Horse Lepidus. It formally deified Caesar as Divus Iulius in 42 BC, and Caesar Octavian henceforth became \"Divi filius\" (\"Son of the Divine\"). Seeing that Caesar's clemency had resulted in his murder, the Second Triumvirate brought back proscription, abandoned since Sulla. It engaged in the legally sanctioned murder of a large number of its opponents in order to fund its forty-five legions in the second civil war against Brutus and Cassius. Antony and Octavian defeated them at Philippi.\n\nAfterward, Mark Antony married Caesar's lover, Cleopatra, intending to use the fabulously wealthy Egypt as a base to dominate Rome. A third civil war broke out between Octavian on one hand and Antony and Cleopatra on the other. This final civil war, culminating in the latter's defeat at Actium, resulted in the final ascendancy of Octavian, who became the first Roman emperor, under the name Caesar Augustus, a name that raised him to the status of a deity.\n\nSome forty people joined in the plot, but about half of their names are lost to history and almost nothing is known about some of those whose names have survived. The known members are:\n\nMarcus Tullius Cicero was not a member of the conspiracy and was surprised by it, but later wrote to the conspirator Trebonius that he wished he had been \"invited to that superb banquet\". He believed that the Liberatores should also have killed Mark Antony. The conspirators had decided, however, that the death of a single tyrant would be more symbolically effective, claiming that the intent was not a coup d'état, but tyrannicide.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4950473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4950473", "title": "Baltic Assembly", "text": "Baltic Assembly\n\nThe Baltic Assembly (BA) is a regional organisation that promotes intergovernmental cooperation between Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. It attempts to find a common position in relation to many international issues, including economic, political and cultural issues. The decisions of the assembly are advisory.\n\nThe budget of the BA is funded by the three-member governments. The official languages of the Baltic Assembly are Estonian, Latvian and Lithuanian. The headquarters and secretariat of the organization are located in Riga, Latvia.\n\nEstonia, Latvia, and Lithuania were independent states since 1918 after the fall of the Russian Empire. During the outbreak of World War II, under the Ribbentrop-Molotov Pact, they were illegally annexed by the Soviet Union in 1940 and continued on for fifty years. \n\nUnder Mikhail Gorbachev, the last Soviet leader, the policies of \"glasnost\" and \"perestroika\" has led to the restoration of independence between 1990 and 1991 which led the three countries to break away. The Soviet Union itself recognised the independence of the restored Baltic states on 6 September 1991 before its dissolution later that year.\n\nThe organisation was formed after a decision to establish it was made in Vilnius on 1 December 1990. It works under regulations approved on 8 November 1991 in Tallinn. On 13 June 1994 the three nations agreed to the structure and rules of the organization.\n\nThe BA claims the following as its achievements between 1991 and 2003:\n\nIn 2017 the Baltic Assembly, the Benelux and three of the members of the Nordic Council (Sweden, Denmark and Finland, all EU-member states), sought intensifying cooperation in the Digital Single Market, as well as discussing social matters, the Economic and Monetary Union of the European Union, the European migrant crisis and defense cooperation. Relations with Russia, Turkey and the United Kingdom was also on the agenda.\n\nThe BA comprises sixty members. Each of the parliaments of the three States appoints twenty of its members to the Assembly. Each of the national parliaments appoints two of the members to be head and deputy head of the national delegation. The six head delegates and deputy head delegates form the BA's Presidium. The Chairman of the Praesidium is the head of the national delegation of the country hosting the next session of the BA. The heads of the other two national delegations are Vice Chairmen of the Presidium. The Preasidium controls the BA between sessions. The Chairman acts as the coordinator of the work of the BA, is its representative with other bodies and liaises with the three members’ governments.\n\nMembers of the Assembly:\nThere are ordinary and extraordinary Sessions. The ordinary Session is convened once a year, as a concluding forum of a country's presidency, which proceeds according to a yearly rotation principle in Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. Before 2003 there were two Sessions a year – in spring and autumn, and countries - participants had half a year presidency. \n\nAny national delegation may propose that an extraordinary session is held. On 8-9 February 1998 in Helsinki, Finland, following to the 2nd Joint Meeting of the Nordic Council and the Baltic Assembly, the first Extraordinary Session of the Baltic Assembly took place. The second Extraordinary Session of the Baltic Assembly was held on 27-29 April 2005 in Pärnu, Estonia, following to the 5th Joint Meeting of the Baltic Assembly and the Nordic Council. \n\nThe following are the standing committees: \n\nEach member of the BA participates in at least one committee.\n\nThe 20 members of the BA from each country are chosen so that their political make-up reflects the proportions within their home parliament. The members may then form cross-national party groupings of at least five members from at least two nations.\n\nAs of 2006, the three political groupings are the Conservative-Right Party Group, the Centre Party Group, and the Social Democratic Party Group.\n\nSince 1993, the Baltic Assembly gives out an award annually for achievements in literature, the arts, and science.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42501350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42501350", "title": "Battle of Pfeddersheim", "text": "Battle of Pfeddersheim\n\nThe Battle of Pfeddersheim () was a battle during the German Peasants' War that took place in June 1525 near Pfeddersheim. The peasants of the Palatinate region had previously joined the uprising in southwest Germany against high taxes and attacked, plundered and devastated the estates of the nobility and the monasteries.\n\nThe Battle of Pfeddersheim was part of the Palatine Peasants' War of 1525. The unrest amongst the peasants and townsfolk in and around Worms began before 29 April 1525 and reached its zenith in May that year. They demanded that the town authorities comply with 13 articles and make concessions within four days.\n\nThese articles were related to three areas: first, in the religious sphere, they demanded a clear and unbiased preaching of the Gospel and the free election of priests and preachers by members of the community. Second, in the economic sphere and where applicable, they demanded that interest, pensions and rent paid to the clergy should be cease when they reached three times the principal sum. The peasants also demanded permission to hunt, fish and cut timber from forests and common land.\n\nThe articles, which affected constitutional law, ended by demanding that the treaty of 1519, known as the \"Rachtung\", be repealed and the records destroyed. All privileges of the clergy, even if they were granted by emperors, kings and popes should be declared void. The clergy should now be charged and pay for pasture, guarding (\"Wacht\"), direct taxes (\"Schatzung\") excise tax (\"Ungeld\") and \"Kaufhausgeld\".\n\nAlthough there was no direct contact between the citizens and peasants in April and May 1525, because the Council had forbidden that, both sides were always informed about each other.\n\nIn Pfeddersheim the clergy, nobility and monastery owned over a third of the arable land. However, there appears to be no particular, local reason for the sudden unrest amongst the Pfeddersheim townsfolk. Rather, they seem to have heard about the situation further afield and followed suit. They had no doubt heard of events in southwest Germany, felt a wave of protest growing and were inclined to join the uprising to improve their social and economic situation. Consequently, it was fairly easy for rebellious peasants to take possession of Pfeddersheim. Meanwhile, after the conquest of Würzburg, Elector Louis V of the Palatinate returned with his army as quickly as possible to his territory to bring an end to the uprising there.\n\nThe peasants were armed with lances, morning stars and farm implements. In addition, some peasant mobs had captured firearms. However, in comparison with the prince's troops they were poorly equipped because the most of the weapons they had were those they had captured or stolen. The prince's troops, of course, were able to be issued with weapons from the armouries.\n\nThe Elector's \"Landsknechte\" who, unlike the peasants, had received military training were also better armed. Their weapons included several kartouwes (siege guns), \"scharfmetzes\", \"notschlangen\", culverins, demi-culverins and falconets. Elector Louis also had several so-called \"Fähnchen\"s, cavalry squadrons each comprising about 150 troopers.\n\nAfter the Elector's troops had marched on Pfeddersheim, Marschall von Habern and Schenk Eberhard von Erbach had the artillery and infantry deploy on an eminence to the north only a few metres from the town. Shortly thereafter his artillery began to open fire on the town's defences. The rebels replied with their own artillery. The exchange of fire was indecisive.\n\nWhen the Palatine army failed to overcome the rebels with their artillery, they began to establish observation points in order to ascertain what the peasants might do next. In addition, cannon, which had hitherto played a secondary role in the battle, were set up relatively close around the town. Small mounted \"Fähnleins\" were also formed and posted on some heights southwest of Pfeddersheim in order to observe the peasants.\n\nAfter troops had been deployed both to the north and the southwest and another position established to the west, the encirclement of Pfeddersheim was almost complete. The east was not occupied because, in the view of the commander, it was unnecessary because there was no gate through which the townsfolk to escape. Nonetheless a final disposition outside the circumvallation was made, in which the cook, the food supply wagon and, later, Elector Louis, were based. The \"Knechte\" (infantry) established themselves between this new position and the River Pfrimm. So the various arms of service were all kept separate and not mixed. No fighting took place during this phase.\n\nShortly after the last position had been occupied, a small force of peasants poured out of the west gate of the town. The besiegers suspected that they wanted to advance to the cover of the Georgenberg hill and also that they wanted to attack the horsemen to the south and drive them away. However, neither of these assumptions came to anything because, suddenly, another 7,000 men stormed out of the gate and advanced over the western approaches presumably thinking they could easily defeat the cavalry deployed there. They could not defeat the Prince's cavalry, however, because the latter exceeded the strength and fighting power of the peasants, so they fell back to the hill of Wingartberg, from where they fired on the main body of the cavalry with their guns. Because the Prince's troops did not know where the peasants had gone to when they left the hill, they then waited to see what would happen next. When the peasant bands then stormed the main body of the Prince's army pouring down the southern slopes of the hill, Marshal von Habern went to the aid of the field captain (\"Feldhauptmann\") at his request and placed his troops behind the main body. The artillery grouped around them then immediately fired on the attackers.\n\nAs the peasant force now looked overmatched, they tried to flee to the town. The royal troops sought to prevent their escape behind the town walls and pursued with their squadrons and mounted troops, with the result many farmers failed to reach the safety of the town. A total of 4,000 peasants were cut off and then either stabbed or strangled on the spot. The remaining peasants who were still in front of the town gate, tried to enter the town. Some peasants even tried to escape to Worms. This incident decimated the ranks of the peasants.\n\nAs it was already night when the last peasants had either been killed or escaped into the town, three \"Fähnleins\", 1,500 \"Knechte\" and 1,000 horsemen were deployed around the town for the rest of the night. The next morning, guns were situated near the town began to open fire. After three hours and after 262 shells had been fired, the peasants capitulated and the Prince's army had won the battle.\n\nAlthough both armies were, numerically, roughly the same size, the peasants were defeated primarily for two reasons: first, although the peasants were not poorly armed, because they not only had pitchforks, scythes and flails, but also pikes, guns and cannons, they were still powerless against the cavalry since they themselves had no cavalry - a decisive disadvantage. Second, the peasants did not have a military leader who could have coordinated the troops and their direction, objectives and firepower. There were ringleaders amongst the peasants, but they had no influence beyond the boundaries of their home area. At that time, the peasants did not recognize that they would have no chance of success against the Prince without a united approach.\n\nOn 25 June, all peasants who were not Palatinate subjects, had to leave the town unarmed. Approximately 3,000 obeyed the command. Although they had been warned not to attempt to escape, many farmers took the first opportunity to escape for fear of punishment. The escape attempt failed, however, and the soldiers initiated a bloodbath that cost the lives of 800 people. Thirty ringleaders were immediately beheaded; the other peasants were released under strict conditions to their homes.\n\nAfter the massacre, the troops occupied the town. The remaining peasants had to gather on the cemetery. 180 ringleaders were detained in the shared church at Pfeddersheim. The Pfeddersheim townsfolk had to guard them. For each peasant who escaped, they were warned that a citizen had to lose his life. The inhabitants had to hand over all those they had hidden by the next morning. 24 leaders were executed. All the other peasants were allowed to go free for a fee. \n\nBut the Pfeddersheim townsfolk were severely punished. Four of their leaders were beheaded. Heavy penalties were imposed on the town: they had to pay high levels of duty, hand over all their weapons and give up their letters of freedom.\n\nEven today a road that runs northwards towards Mörstadt - \"Georg Scheu Straße\" - is known locally as \"Bluthohl\" (\"blood hollow\"). The name comes from the accounts that the battle had raged on the nearby fields that were at a higher level and that the blood of the fallen ran down this road into the town.\n\n"}
{"id": "6761603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6761603", "title": "Black helicopter", "text": "Black helicopter\n\nBlack helicopters is a term which became popular in the United States militia movement and associated political groups in the 1990s as a symbol and warning sign of an alleged conspiratorial military takeover of the United States, though it has also been associated with UFOs, men in black, and similar conspiracies. Rumors circulated that, for instance, the United Nations patrolled the US with unmarked black helicopters, or that federal agents used black helicopters to enforce wildlife laws. \n\nMetonymic use of the phrase \"black helicopters\" sometimes occurs in reference to conspiracy theories in general.\n\nStories of black helicopters first appeared in the 1970s, and were linked to reports of cattle mutilation. It is possible that the idea originated in Hal Lindsey's book \"The Late, Great Planet Earth\", published in 1970 and popular among conspiracy theorists. Lindsey theorized that the locust-like creatures referenced in the Book of Revelation in the New Testament were actually helicopters, which John had never seen and thus did not know how to describe.\n\nJim Keith wrote two books on the subject: \"Black Helicopters Over America: Strikeforce for the New World Order\" (1995), and \"Black Helicopters II: The End Game Strategy\" (1998).\n\nMedia attention to black helicopters increased in February 1995, when first-term Republican northern Idaho Representative Helen Chenoweth charged that armed federal agents were landing black helicopters on Idaho ranchers' property to enforce the Endangered Species Act. \"I have never seen them,\" Chenoweth said in an interview in \"The New York Times\". \"But enough people in my district have become concerned that I can't just ignore it. We do have some proof.\"\n\nBelievers in UFO conspiracy theories often claim unmarked black helicopters are seen in the vicinity of UFO sightings, the theory being that the choppers belong to an alleged secretive government department who cover up evidence of alien visits and UFOs from the general public.\n\nThe black helicopters theory resonates well with the belief held by some in the militia movement that troops from the United Nations might invade the United States. The John Birch Society published an article in \"The New American\" detailing how the existence of the covert aircraft was mostly the product of possible visual errors and a tendency towards overabundant caution.\n\nThe following organizations and government agencies are known to operate black and/or unmarked helicopters in the United States for unclassified uses:\n\n\nThe term has also been used to ridicule other conspiracy theories or conspiracy theorists. For instance, a \"Slate\" article on basketball refereeing, said: \"In the wake of this scandal, every game will be in question, and not only by fans disposed to seeing black helicopters outside the arena.\" Vice President Joe Biden had recourse to the term in a speech responding to the National Rifle Association during the 2013 White House campaign for background checks on all gun purchasers, saying, \"The black helicopter crowd is really upset. It's kind of scary, man.\" When the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) proposed a database to monitor the activities of journalists, bloggers and other “media influencers,” and some people raised concerns, DHS's spokesman said, \"Despite what some reporters may suggest, this is nothing more than the standard practice of monitoring current events in the media. Any suggestion otherwise is fit for tin foil hat wearing, black helicopter conspiracy theorists.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "106544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106544", "title": "Bumiputera (Malaysia)", "text": "Bumiputera (Malaysia)\n\nBumiputera or Bumiputra (Jawi: بوميڤوترا) is a Malaysian term to describe Malays and other indigenous peoples of Southeast Asia, i.e. the Malay world, used similarly as in Indonesia and Brunei. The term comes from the Sanskrit and later absorbed into the classical Malay word \"bhumiputra\", which can be translated literally as \"son of the land\" or \"son of the soil\".\n\nIn the 1970s, the Malaysian government implemented policies which \"The Economist\" called \"racially discriminatory\" designed to favour bumiputras (including affirmative action in public education) to create opportunities, and to defuse interethnic tensions following the extended violence against Malaysian Chinese in the 13 May Incident in 1969. These policies have succeeded in creating a significant urban Malay and Native Bornean middle class as well. They have been less effective in eradicating poverty among rural communities. Some analysts have noted a backlash of resentment from excluded groups, in particular the sizeable Chinese and Indian Malaysian minorities.\n\nThe concept of a bumiputra ethnic group in Malaysia was coined by Abdul Razak Hussein. It recognised the \"special position\" of the Malays provided in the Constitution of Malaysia, in particular Article 153. However, the constitution does not use the term bumiputra; it defines only \"Malay\" and \"indigenous peoples\" (Article 160(2)), \"natives\" of Sarawak (161A(6)(a)), and \"natives\" of Sabah (Article 161A(6) (b)). Definitions of \"bumiputra\" in public use vary among different institutions, organisations, and government departments and agencies.\n\nIn the book \"Buku Panduan Kemasukan ke Institusi Pengajian Tinggi Awam, Program Pengajian Lepasan SPM/Setaraf Sesi Akademik 2007/2008\" (Guidebook for entry into public higher learning institutions for SPM/equivalent graduates for academic year 2007/2008), the Malaysian Higher Education Ministry defined bumiputra as follows, depending on the region of origin of the individual applicant:\n\n\nIn addition to the interpretation given above, a broader definition of bumiputra include groups such as native Indonesians, Malaysian Siamese, Muslim Indian Malaysians, Peranakan and the Kristang people of Portuguese-Eurasian descent. Most of these encompass communities that were established in southeast Asia prior to the arrival of the British colonialists who forever altered the demographics of Malaysia. Others favour a definition encompassing all children of Bumiputra; there have been notable cases of people with one Bumiputra parent and one non-Bumiputra parent being dismissed as non-Bumiputra.\n\nAt the time of Malaya's independence from the British in 1957, the population included many first or second-generation immigrants who had come to fill colonial manpower needs as indentured labourers. Chinese legal immigrants, who typically settled in urban areas, played a significant role in the commercial sector after the Indians left the country to return to India, many of the commercial sectors were sold to the Chinese immigrants. The Communities Liaison Committee (CLC), comprising leading politicians from different racial backgrounds, supported the promotion of economic equality for the Malays, conditional on political equality for the non-Malays. CLC member E.E.C. Thuraisingham later said, \"I and others believed that the backward Malays should be given a better deal. Malays should be assisted to attain parity with non-Malays to forge a united Malayan Nation of equals.\" \n\nArticle 153 of the Constitution states that,\n\nArticle 160 defines a Malay as being one who \"professes the religion of Islam, habitually speaks the Malay language, conforms to Malay customs and is the child of at least one parent who was born within the Federation of Malaysia before independence of Malaya on 31 August 1957, or the issue (off-spring) of such a person.\"\n\nArticle 8 of the Constitution, states that all Malaysian citizens shall be equal under the law, and \"Except as expressly authorised by this Constitution, there shall be no discrimination against citizens on the ground only of religion, race, descent or place of birth in any law or in the appointment to any office or employment under a public authority or in the administration of any law relating to the acquisition, holding or disposition of property or the establishing or carrying on of any trade, business, profession, vocation or employment.\" Article 153 itself expressly forbids particular forms of discrimination; clause 5 states that \"All persons of whatever race in the same grade in the service of the Federation shall, subject to the terms and conditions of their employment, be treated impartially,\" while clause 9 states: \"Nothing in this Article shall empower Parliament to restrict business or trade solely for the purpose of reservations for Malays.\"\n\nThe term of the Bumiputras' special position has been disputed. The Reid Commission, which drafted the Constitution, initially proposed that Article 153 expire after 15 years unless renewed by Parliament. This qualification was struck from the final draft. After the 13 May Incident in 1969, representatives within the government argued over whether the special position of the bumiputras ought to have a sunset clause.\n\nIsmail Abdul Rahman argued that \"the question be left to the Malays themselves because ... as more and more Malays became educated and gained self-confidence, they themselves would do away with this 'special position'.\" Ismail believed the special position was \"a slur on the ability of the Malays.\" In 1970, however, one member of the Cabinet said that Malay special rights would remain for \"hundreds of years to come.\"\n\nIn the 1970s, the government implemented the New Economic Policy (NEP), designed to be a more aggressive form of affirmative action for the Bumiputra than Article 153. Article 153 provides specifically for the use of quotas in the granting of scholarships, positions in the civil service, and business licences, as well as native reservations of land. Policies under the rubric of the NEP include subsidies for real estate purchases, quotas for public equity shares, and general subsidies to Bumiputra businesses.\n\nFormer Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi and his predecessor Dr. Mahathir bin Mohamad have both suggested that Malays should depend less on government assistance. Many observers believe full abolition of bumiputra privileges is unlikely, especially in view of the constitutional issues involved, although successive administrations since Mahathir have attempted to reform the system of government aid for the bumiputra. Some bumiputra groups believe further affirmative action is necessary.\n\nParliament began to use the term \"bumiputra\" in 1965. Following debate of the act to create the Majlis Amanah Rakyat (MARA), the government founded an agency to preserve bumiputra interests.\n\nIn July 2017, Prime Minister Najib Razak said that the government would consider the request of the Muslim Indian community to be recognized as Bumiputera, in what is seen as a move to woo voters in the lead-up to the upcoming general election.\n\nCertain but not all pro-bumiputra policies exist as affirmative action for bumiputras, for NEP is racial-based and not deprivation-based. For instance, all Bumiputra, regardless of their financial standing, are entitled 7 percent discount on houses or property, including luxurious units; whilst a low-income non-Bumiputra receives no such financial assistance. Other preferential policies include quotas for the following: admission to government educational institutions, qualification for public scholarships, marking of universities exam papers, special bumiputras-only classes prior to university's end of term exams, for positions in government, and ownership of businesses. Most of the policies were established in the Malaysian New Economic Policy (NEP) period. Many policies focus on trying to achieve a bumiputra share of corporate equity, comprising at least 30% of the total. Ismail Abdul Rahman proposed this target after the government was unable to agree on a suitable policy goal.\n\nIn a report titled 2012 Investment Climate Statement - Malaysia published by the Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs (US Department of State), under the heading \"Ethnic Preferences\", part of a paragraph succinctly describes the reality of such Bumiputra policy as follows:\"Many of the preference policies are opaque, with details of implementation largely left to the various ministries and civil servants within those ministries. Policies and practices vary greatly. Some practices are explicit and contained in law or regulation, while others are informal, leaving much ambiguity for potential investors. The civil service itself is subject to Bumiputra hiring preferences. The NEM [New Economic Model] proposes reforming ethnic preferences in business ownership and social safety net programs. Some conservative Bumiputra groups have voiced strong opposition to any significant changes to the extensive preferences.\"\n\nExamples of such policies include:\n\nAs a result of these policies, many bumiputera with good connections quickly became millionaires. According to Tan Sri Rafidah Aziz, former Minister of Trade and Industry, the policy was to create \"Towering Malays\". In 2005 she gave a speech that stated: \"If there are young Malay entrepreneurs whose companies are successful, then we appreciate their success, we want Towering Malays of glokal (global and local) standard\". She also said that the policy of Approved Permits (APs) had produced many bumiputera entrepreneurs in the automotive industry.\n\nSince 2000, the Government has discussed phasing out certain affirmative action programs and reinstating \"meritocracy\". In 2003 it began the system of \"Malaysian model meritocracy\" for university admission. Admission to public universities was not based upon a common examination such as the SAT or A-Levels, but rather upon a two parallel systems of either a one-year matriculation course or a two-year STPM (Malaysian Higher School Certificate) programme. Bumiputras compose an overwhelming majority of entrants to the matriculation programme. It is a commonly-held belief that the public university entry requirements are easier for matriculation students and disproportionately difficult for STPM students.\n\nQuotas also exist for Public Services Department (JPA) scholarships, full scholarships offered to students to study in leading universities worldwide. These scholarships are given on the basis of SPM (Malaysian Education Certificate, the equivalent of O-Levels) results, ethnic group, and certain quotas. The JPA scholars are sent to selected pre-university programmes offered by the government — from there, they apply to universities.\n\nIn the 1965 session of Parliament, Singapore's Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew (who was also a Member of that Parliament) questioned the implementation of Malay rights as proposed. Lee asked, \"How does the Malay in the \"kampung\" find his way out into this modernised civil society? By becoming servants of the 0.3 per cent who would have the money to hire them to clean their shoe, open their motorcar doors?\" and \"How does telling a Malay bus driver that he should support the party of his Malay director (UMNO) and the Chinese bus conductor to join another party of his Chinese director (MCA) — how does that improve the standards of the Malay bus driver and the Chinese bus conductor who are both workers in the same company?\"\n\nLee closed with \"Meanwhile, whenever there is a failure of economic, social and educational policies, you come back and say, oh, these wicked Chinese, Indian and others opposing Malay rights. They don't oppose Malay rights. They, the Malay, have the right as Malaysian citizens to go up to the level of training and education that the more competitive societies, the non-Malay society, has produced. That is what must be done, isn't it? Not to feed them with this obscurantist doctrine that all they have got to do is to get Malay rights for the few special Malays and their problem has been resolved.\"[\n\nAt the 2004 annual general assembly of the United Malays National Organisation, which is the largest member of the governing coalition, deputy chair Badruddin Amiruldin cautioned against questioning the Bumiputras' special rights, which met with approval from the delegates: \"Let no one from the other races ever question the rights of Malays on this land. Don’t question the religion because this is my right on this land.\" In 2004, Mohd. Johari Baharum, parliamentary secretary of the Prime Minister's Department, stated that the PSD scholarships would remain quota based. He added that there were no plans to convert this to a merit based system, and that the total value of the PSD scholarship since 1996 was 2.4 billion Ringgit.\n\nAnother controversial aspect is that the Orang Asli of peninsular Malaysia are not considered Bumiputra under the Federal constitution. As their settlement predates that of the Malays, this is considered by many, that Bumiputra is about the promotion one religion over another, especially since Orang Asli are much worse off than Muslim Malays. Others argue that the Orang Asli are in fact considered Bumiputra.\n\nOn 1 March 2009, Datuk Nik Aziz Nik Mat, the spiritual leader of the opposition Pan-Malaysian Islamic Party stated that the term “bumiputera” is racist and the policy prevented other races from receiving government aid. Nik Aziz’s remarks were made in response to the criticisms and threats made by UMNO against Democratic Action Party’s Dr Boo Cheng Hau, the opposition leader in Johor when Dr Boo was reported to have compared “bumiputeraism” with state apartheid.\n\nOn 1 February 2015, Swiss academic Dr Tariq Ramadan addresses on how the non Muslims have been treated as second class citizens. He stated: “I’m sorry but some of your fellow citizens in this country who are not Muslims are facing this discrimination, they are facing injustices.”\n\nIn 2006, the then Minister of Higher Education, Mustapa Mohamad, has stated that he wants public universities to recruit more non-bumiputra academic staff to \"strive for world-class institutions\", which may signal a move toward less racial profiling in academia.\n\nHowever, the manufacturing sector is exempted from the Foreign Investment Committee (FIC) Guidelines and the mandatory 30% Bumiputera equity and restrictions in market entry have been removed for all (manufacturing) sub-sectors.\n\nMalaysia requires citizens to carry a national identification card called MyKad. Smart Cards identify citizens as Muslims or Non-Muslims. Any Malaysian citizen can proclaim themselves to be Muslim but the National identification card does not specify whether or not the holder is a bumiputera.\n\n"}
{"id": "9959633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9959633", "title": "Butterfly Peace Garden", "text": "Butterfly Peace Garden\n\nThe Butterfly Peace Garden (BPG) is a non-governmental organization established in Batticaloa Sri Lanka in 1996. Since that time the BPG has provided counseling and support to children traumatized by civil conflict in the region. In late 2004 the BPG also became a centre for helping victims of the tsunami which devastated the Batticaloa area. The BPG and its staff have been supported by a variety of local and international agencies and charities, including the governments of Canada and the Netherlands, WarChild International and Ashoka International, which named BPG co-founder Paul Hogan a fellow in 2003. \n\nChildren are brought to the BPG each day from surrounding villages in groups that are mixed with respect to gender and ethnicity (e.g. children from Tamil and Muslim villages). A typical program cycle runs one day a week for nine months and involves activities drawn from a range of visual, dramatic and musical arts. Activities are conducted by adult animators skilled in one or more artistic discipline, who have in many cases experienced psychological wounds similar to those of the children who come to the BPG. The BPG has for several years served as a model for innovative and effective programs for war-affected children, families and communities. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "6589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6589", "title": "COINTELPRO", "text": "COINTELPRO\n\nCOINTELPRO (Portmanteau derived from COunter INTELligence PROgram) (1956–1971) was a series of covert, and at times illegal, projects conducted by the United States Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) aimed at surveilling, infiltrating, discrediting, and disrupting domestic political organizations. FBI records show that COINTELPRO resources targeted groups and individuals that the FBI deemed subversive, including the Communist Party USA, anti-Vietnam War organizers, activists of the civil rights movement or Black Power movement (e.g. Martin Luther King Jr., Nation of Islam, and the Black Panther Party), feminist organizations, the American Indian Movement (AIM), independence movements (such as Puerto Rican independence groups like the Young Lords), and a variety of organizations that were part of the broader New Left. The program also targeted white supremacist groups including the Ku Klux Klan and nationalist groups including Irish Republicans and Cuban exiles. The FBI also financed, armed, and controlled an extreme right-wing group of former members of the Minutemen anti-communist para-military organization, transforming it into a group called the Secret Army Organization that targeted groups, activists, and leaders involved in the Anti-War Movement, using both intimidation and violent acts.\n\nThe FBI has used covert operations against domestic political groups since its inception; however, covert operations under the official COINTELPRO label took place between 1956 and 1971. COINTELPRO tactics are still used to this day, and have been alleged to include discrediting targets through psychological warfare; smearing individuals and groups using forged documents and by planting false reports in the media; harassment; wrongful imprisonment; and illegal violence, including assassination. The FBI's stated motivation was \"protecting national security, preventing violence, and maintaining the existing social and political order.\"\n\nBeginning in 1969, leaders of the Black Panther Party were targeted by the COINTELPRO and \"neutralized\" by being murdered, assassinated, imprisoned, publicly humiliated or falsely charged with crimes. Some of the Black Panthers affected included Fred Hampton, Mark Clark, Zayd Shakur, Geronimo Pratt, Mumia Abu-Jamal, and Marshall Conway. Common tactics used by COINTELPRO were perjury, witness harassment, witness intimidation, and withholding of evidence.\n\nFBI Director J. Edgar Hoover issued directives governing COINTELPRO, ordering FBI agents to \"expose, disrupt, misdirect, discredit, or otherwise Neutralize\" the activities of these movements and especially their leaders. Under Hoover, the agent in charge of COINTELPRO was William C. Sullivan. Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy personally authorized some of the programs. Although Kennedy only gave written approval for limited wiretapping of Martin Luther King's phones \"on a trial basis, for a month or so\", Hoover extended the clearance so his men were \"unshackled\" to look for evidence in any areas of King's life they deemed worthy.\n\nRecently, documents show that the FBI still engages in COINTELPRO behavior by surveilling Black Lives Matter.\n\nCentralized operations under COINTELPRO officially began in August 1956 with a program designed to \"increase factionalism, cause disruption and win defections\" inside the Communist Party USA (CPUSA). Tactics included anonymous phone calls, Internal Revenue Service (IRS) audits, and the creation of documents that would divide the American communist organization internally. An October 1956 memo from Hoover reclassified the FBI's ongoing surveillance of black leaders, including it within COINTELPRO, with the justification that the movement was infiltrated by communists. In 1956, Hoover sent an open letter denouncing Dr. T.R.M. Howard, a civil rights leader, surgeon, and wealthy entrepreneur in Mississippi who had criticized FBI inaction in solving recent murders of George W. Lee, Emmett Till, and other African Americans in the South. When the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC), an African-American civil rights organization, was founded in 1957, the FBI began to monitor and target the group almost immediately, focusing particularly on Bayard Rustin, Stanley Levison, and eventually Martin Luther King Jr.\nAfter the 1963 March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom, Hoover singled out King as a major target for COINTELPRO. Under pressure from Hoover to focus on King, Sullivan wrote:\n\nIn the light of King's powerful demagogic speech. ... We must mark him now if we have not done so before, as the most dangerous Negro of the future in this nation from the standpoint of communism, the Negro, and national security. \n\nSoon after, the FBI was systematically bugging King's home and his hotel rooms, as they were now aware that King was growing in stature daily as the most prominent leader of the civil rights movement.\n\nIn the mid-1960s, King began to publicly criticize the Bureau for giving insufficient attention to the use of terrorism by white supremacists. Hoover responded by publicly calling King the most \"notorious liar\" in the United States. In his 1991 memoir, \"Washington Post\" journalist Carl Rowan asserted that the FBI had sent at least one anonymous letter to King encouraging him to commit suicide. Historian Taylor Branch documents an anonymous November 21, 1964 \"suicide package\" sent by the FBI that contained audio recordings, which were obtained through tapping King's phone and placing bugs throughout various hotel rooms over the past two years was created two days after the announcement of King's impending Nobel Peace Prize. The tape, which was prepared by FBI audio technician John Matter documented a series of King's sexual indiscretions combined with a letter telling him \"There is only one way out for you. You better take it before your filthy, abnormal, fraudulent self is bared to the nation\". King was subsequently informed that the audio would be released to the media if he did not acquiesce and commit suicide prior to accepting his Nobel Peace Award. When King refused to satisfy their coercion tactics, FBI Associate Director, Cartha D. DeLoach, commenced a media campaign offering the surveillance transcript to various news organizations including \"Newsweek\" and \"Newsday\". And even by 1969, as has been noted elsewhere, \"[FBI] efforts to 'expose' Martin Luther King Jr. had not slackened even though King had been dead for a year. [The Bureau] furnished ammunition to conservatives to attack King's memory, and...tried to block efforts to honor the slain leader.\"\n\nDuring the same period the program also targeted Malcolm X. While an FBI spokesman has denied that the FBI was \"directly\" involved in Malcolm's murder in 1965, it is documented that the Bureau worked to \"widen the rift\" between Malcolm and Elijah Muhammad through infiltration and the \"sparking of acrimonious debates within the organization,\" rumor-mongering, and other tactics designed to foster internal disputes, which ultimately led to Malcolm's assassination. The FBI heavily infiltrated Malcolm's Organization of Afro-American Unity in the final months of his life. The Pulitzer Prize-winning asserts that most of the men who plotted Malcolm's assassination were never apprehended and that the full extent of the FBI's involvement in his death cannot be known.\n\nAmidst the urban unrest of July–August 1967, the FBI began \"COINTELPRO–BLACK HATE\", which focused on King and the SCLC as well as the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC), the Revolutionary Action Movement (RAM), the Deacons for Defense and Justice, Congress of Racial Equality (CORE), and the Nation of Islam. BLACK HATE established the Ghetto Informant Program and instructed 23 FBI offices to \"disrupt, misdirect, discredit, or otherwise neutralize the activities of black nationalist hate type organizations\".\n\nA March 1968 memo stated the program's goal was to \"prevent the coalition of militant black nationalist groups\"; to \"Prevent the RISE OF A 'MESSIAH' who could unify...the militant black nationalist movement\"; \"to pinpoint potential troublemakers and neutralize them before they exercise their potential for violence [against authorities].\"; to \"Prevent militant black nationalist groups and leaders from gaining RESPECTABILITY, by discrediting them to...both the responsible community and to liberals who have vestiges of sympathy...\"; and to \"prevent the long-range GROWTH of militant black organizations, especially among youth.\" Dr. King was said to have potential to be the \"messiah\" figure, should he abandon nonviolence and integrationism, and Stokely Carmichael was noted to have \"the necessary charisma to be a real threat in this way\" as he was portrayed as someone who espoused a much more militant vision of \"black power.\" While the FBI was particularly concerned with leaders and organizers, they did not limit their scope of target to the heads of organizations. Individuals such as writers were also listed among the targets of operations. \nThis program coincided with a broader federal effort to prepare military responses for urban riots, and began increased collaboration between the FBI, Central Intelligence Agency, National Security Agency, and the Department of Defense. The CIA launched its own domestic espionage project in 1967 called Operation CHAOS. A particular target was the Poor People's Campaign, a national effort organized by King and the SCLC to occupy Washington, D.C. The FBI monitored and disrupted the campaign on a national level, while using targeted smear tactics locally to undermine support for the march. The Black Panther Party was another targeted organization, wherein the FBI collaborated to destroy the party from the inside out.\n\nOverall, COINTELPRO encompassed disruption and sabotage of the Socialist Workers Party (1961), the Ku Klux Klan (1964), the Nation of Islam, the Black Panther Party (1967), and the entire New Left social/political movement, which included antiwar, community, and religious groups (1968). A later investigation by the Senate's Church Committee (see below) stated that \"COINTELPRO began in 1956, in part because of frustration with Supreme Court rulings limiting the Government's power to proceed overtly against dissident groups.\" Official congressional committees and several court cases have concluded that COINTELPRO operations against communist and socialist groups exceeded statutory limits on FBI activity and violated constitutional guarantees of freedom of speech and association.\n\nThe program was secret until 1971, when the Citizens' Commission to Investigate the FBI burgled an FBI field office in Media, Pennsylvania, took several dossiers, and exposed the program by passing this material to news agencies. The boxing match, known as the Fight of the Century, between Muhammad Ali and Joe Frazier in March 1971 provided cover for the activist group to successfully pull off the burglary; Muhammad Ali was himself a COINTELPRO target due to his involvement with the Nation of Islam and the anti-war movement. Many news organizations initially refused to publish the information. Within the year, Director J. Edgar Hoover declared that the centralized COINTELPRO was over, and that all future counterintelligence operations would be handled on a case-by-case basis.\n\nAdditional documents were revealed in the course of separate lawsuits filed against the FBI by NBC correspondent Carl Stern, the Socialist Workers Party, and a number of other groups. In 1976 the Select Committee to Study Governmental Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities of the United States Senate, commonly referred to as the \"Church Committee\" for its chairman, Senator Frank Church of Idaho, launched a major investigation of the FBI and COINTELPRO. Many released documents have been partly, or entirely, redacted.\n\nThe Final Report of the Select Committee castigated the conduct of the intelligence community in its domestic operations (including COINTELPRO) in no uncertain terms:\n\nThe Church Committee documented a history of the FBI exercising political repression as far back as World War I, through the 1920s, when agents were charged with rounding up \"anarchists, communists, socialists, reformists and revolutionaries\" for deportation. The domestic operations were increased against political and anti-war groups from 1936 through 1976.\n\nThe intended effect of the FBI's COINTELPRO was to \"expose, disrupt, misdirect, or otherwise neutralize\" groups that the FBI officials believed were \"subversive\" by instructing FBI field operatives to:\n\n1. Create a negative public image for target groups by surveiling activists and then releasing negative personal information to the public.\n\n2. Break down internal organization by creating conflicts by having agents exacerbate racial tensions, or send anonymous letters to try to create conflicts.\n\n3. Create dissension between groups by spreading rumors that other groups were stealing money.\n\n4. Restrict access to public resources by pressuring non-profit organizations to cut off funding or material support.\n\n5. Restrict the ability to organize protest.\n\n6. Restrict the ability of individuals to participate in group activities by character assassinations, false arrests, surveillance.\n\nAt its inception, the program's main target was the Communist Party.\n\nIn an interview with the BBC's Andrew Marr in February 1996, Noam Chomsky—a political activist and MIT professor of linguistics—spoke about the purpose and the targets of COINTELPRO, saying:\n\nCOINTELPRO was a program of subversion carried out not by a couple of petty crooks but by the national political police, the FBI, under four administrations... by the time it got through, I won't run through the whole story, it was aimed at the entire new left, at the women's movement, at the whole black movement, it was extremely broad. Its actions went as far as political assassination.\n\nAccording to the Church Committee:\nWhile the declared purposes of these programs were to protect the \"national security\" or prevent violence, Bureau witnesses admit that many of the targets were nonviolent and most had no connections with a foreign power. Indeed, nonviolent organizations and individuals were targeted because the Bureau believed they represented a \"potential\" for violence—and nonviolent citizens who were against the war in Vietnam were targeted because they gave \"aid and comfort\" to violent demonstrators by lending respectability to their cause.\n\nThe imprecision of the targeting is demonstrated by the inability of the Bureau to define the subjects of the programs. The Black Nationalist program, according to its supervisor, included \"a great number of organizations that you might not today characterize as black nationalist but which were in fact primarily black.\" Thus, the nonviolent Southern Christian Leadership Conference was labeled as a Black Nationalist-\"Hate Group.\"\n\nFurthermore, the actual targets were chosen from a far broader group than the titles of the programs would imply. The CPUSA program targeted not only Communist Party members but also sponsors of the National Committee to Abolish the House Un-American Activities Committee and civil rights leaders allegedly under Communist influence or deemed to be not sufficiently \"anti-Communist\". The Socialist Workers Party program included non-SWP sponsors of anti-war demonstrations which were cosponsored by the SWP or the Young Socialist Alliance, its youth group. The Black Nationalist program targeted a range of organizations from the Panthers to SNCC to the peaceful Southern Christian Leadership Conference, and included every Black Student Union and many other black student groups. New Left targets ranged from the SDS to the InterUniversity Committee for Debate on Foreign Policy, from Antioch College (\"vanguard of the New Left\") to the New Mexico Free University and other \"alternate\" schools, and from underground newspapers to students' protesting university censorship of a student publication by carrying signs with four-letter words on them.\n\nExamples of surveillance, spanning all presidents from FDR to Nixon, both legal and illegal, contained in the Church Committee report:\n\n\nGroups that were known to be targets of COINTELPRO operations include:\n\n\nThe COINTELPRO operators targeted multiple groups at once, and encouraged splintering of these groups from within. In letter writing campaigns (wherein false letters were sent on behalf of members of parties), the FBI ensured that groups would not unite in their causes. For instance they, launched a campaign specifically to alienate the Black Panther Party from the Mau Maus, Young Lords, Young Patriots and SDS. These racially diverse groups had been building alliances, in part due to charismatic leaders such as Fred Hampton and his attempts to create a \"Rainbow Coalition\". The FBI was concerned with ensuring that groups could not gain traction through unity, specifically across racial lines. One of the main ways of targeting these groups was to arouse suspicion between the different parties and causes. In this way the bureau took on a divide and conquer offensive.\n\nThe COINTELPRO documents show numerous cases of the FBI's intentions to prevent and disrupt protests against the Vietnam War. Many techniques were used to accomplish this task. \"These included promoting splits among antiwar forces, encouraging red-baiting of socialists, and pushing violent confrontations as an alternative to massive, peaceful demonstrations.\" One 1966 COINTELPRO operation tried to redirect the Socialist Workers Party from their pledge of support for the antiwar movement.\n\nThe FBI has said that it no longer undertakes COINTELPRO or COINTELPRO-like operations. However, critics have claimed that agency programs in the spirit of COINTELPRO targeted groups such as the Committee in Solidarity with the People of El Salvador, the American Indian Movement, Earth First!, the White Separatist Movement, and the Anti-Globalization Movement.\n\nAccording to attorney Brian Glick in his book \"War at Home\", the FBI used five main methods during COINTELPRO:\n\nThe FBI specifically developed tactics intended to heighten tension and hostility between various factions in the black power movement, for example between the Black Panthers and the US Organization. For instance, the FBI sent a fake letter to the US Organization exposing a supposed Black Panther plot to murder the head of the US Organization, Ron Karenga. They then intensified this by spreading falsely attributed cartoons in the black communities pitting the Black Panther Party against the US Organization. This resulted in numerous deaths, among which were San Diego Black Panther Party members John Huggins, Bunchy Carter and Sylvester Bell. Another example of the FBI's annonymous letter writing campaign is how they turned the Blackstone Rangers head, Jeff Fort, against former ally Fred Hampton, by stating that Hampton had a hit on Fort. They also were instrumental in developing the rift between Black Panther Party leaders Eldridge Cleaver and Huey Newton, as executed through false letters inciting the two leaders of the Black Panther Party.\n\nDhoruba Bin Wahad a former Black Panther, reflects on how these tactics made him feel, saying he had a combat mentality and felt like he was at war with the government. When asked about why he thinks the Black Panthers were targeted he said, \"In the United States, the equivalent of the military was the local police. During the early sixties, at the height of the civil rights movement, and the human rights movement, the police in the United States became increasingly militaristic. They began to train out of military bases in the United States. The Law Enforcement Assistance Act supplied local police with military technology, everything from assault rifles to army personnel carriers. In his opinion, the Counterintelligence Program went hand-in-hand with the militarization of the police in the Black community, with the militarization of police in America.\"\n\nThe FBI also conspired with the police departments of many U.S. cities (San Diego, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Oakland, Philadelphia, Chicago) to encourage repeated raids on Black Panther homes—often with little or no evidence of violations of federal, state, or local laws—which resulted directly in the police killing many members of the Black Panther Party, most notably Chicago Black Panther Party Chairman Fred Hampton on December 4, 1969. Before the death of Hampton long-term infiltrator, William O'Neal, shared floor plans of his apartment with the COINTELPRO team. He then gave Hampton a dose of secobarbital that rendered Hampton unconscious during the raid on his home.\n\nIn order to eliminate black militant leaders whom they considered dangerous, the FBI is believed to have worked with local police departments to target specific individuals, accuse them of crimes they did not commit, suppress exculpatory evidence and falsely incarcerate them. Elmer \"Geronimo\" Pratt, a Black Panther Party leader, was incarcerated for 27 years before a California Superior Court vacated his murder conviction, ultimately freeing him. Appearing before the court, an FBI agent testified that he believed Pratt had been framed, because both the FBI and the Los Angeles Police Department knew he had not been in the area at the time the murder occurred.\n\nSome sources claim that the FBI conducted more than 200 \"black bag jobs\", which were warrantless surreptitious entries, against the targeted groups and their members.\n\nIn 1969 the FBI special agent in San Francisco wrote Hoover that his investigation of the Black Panther Party had concluded that in his city, at least, the Panthers were primarily engaged in feeding breakfast to children. Hoover fired back a memo implying the agent's career goals would be directly affected by his supplying evidence to support Hoover's view that the Black Panther Party was \"a violence-prone organization seeking to overthrow the Government by revolutionary means\".\n\nHoover supported using false claims to attack his political enemies. In one memo he wrote: \"Purpose of counterintelligence action is to disrupt the Black Panther Party and it is immaterial whether facts exist to substantiate the charge.\"\n\nIn one particularly controversial 1965 incident, white civil rights worker Viola Liuzzo was murdered by Ku Klux Klansmen, who gave chase and fired shots into her car after noticing that her passenger was a young black man; one of the Klansmen was Gary Thomas Rowe, an acknowledged FBI informant. The FBI spread rumors that Liuzzo was a member of the Communist Party and had abandoned her children to have sexual relationships with African Americans involved in the civil rights movement. FBI records show that J. Edgar Hoover personally communicated these insinuations to President Johnson.\n\nFBI informant Rowe has also been implicated in some of the most violent crimes of the 1960s civil rights era, including attacks on the Freedom Riders and the 1963 Birmingham, Alabama 16th Street Baptist Church bombing.\n\nAccording to Noam Chomsky, in another instance in San Diego, the FBI financed, armed, and controlled an extreme right-wing group of former Minutemen, transforming it into a group called the Secret Army Organization that targeted groups, activists, and leaders involved in the Anti-War Movement, using both intimidation and violent acts.\n\nHoover ordered preemptive action \"to pinpoint potential troublemakers and neutralize them before they exercise their potential for violence.\"\n\nThe final report of the Church Committee concluded:\n\nToo many people have been spied upon by too many Government agencies and too much information has been illegally collected. The Government has often undertaken the secret surveillance of citizens on the basis of their political beliefs, even when those beliefs posed no threat of violence or illegal acts on behalf of a hostile foreign power. The Government, operating primarily through secret and biased informants, but also using other intrusive techniques such as wiretaps, microphone \"bugs\", surreptitious mail opening, and break-ins, has swept in vast amounts of information about the personal lives, views, and associations of American citizens. Investigations of groups deemed potentially dangerous—and even of groups suspected of associating with potentially dangerous organizations—have continued for decades, despite the fact that those groups did not engage in unlawful activity.\n\nGroups and individuals have been assaulted, repressed, harassed and disrupted because of their political views, social beliefs and their lifestyles. Investigations have been based upon vague standards whose breadth made excessive collection inevitable. Unsavory, harmful and vicious tactics have been employed—including anonymous attempts to break up marriages, disrupt meetings, ostracize persons from their professions, and provoke target groups into rivalries that might result in deaths. Intelligence agencies have served the political and personal objectives of presidents and other high officials. While the agencies often committed excesses in response to pressure from high officials in the Executive branch and Congress, they also occasionally initiated improper activities and then concealed them from officials whom they had a duty to inform.\n\nGovernmental officials—including those whose principal duty is to enforce the law—have violated or ignored the law over long periods of time and have advocated and defended their right to break the law.\n\nThe Constitutional system of checks and balances has not adequately controlled intelligence activities. Until recently the Executive branch has neither delineated the scope of permissible activities nor established procedures for supervising intelligence agencies. Congress has failed to exercise sufficient oversight, seldom questioning the use to which its appropriations were being put. Most domestic intelligence issues have not reached the courts, and in those cases when they have reached the courts, the judiciary has been reluctant to grapple with them.\n\nWhile COINTELPRO was officially terminated in April 1971, domestic espionage continued. Between 1972 and 1974, it is documented that the Bureau planted over 500 bugs without a warrant and opened over 2,000 pieces of personal mail. More recent targets of covert action include the American Indian Movement (AIM), Earth First!, and Committees in Solidarity with the People of El Salvador. Documents released under the FOIA show that the FBI tracked the late David Halberstam—a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist and author—for more than two decades. \"Counterterrorism\" guidelines implemented during the Reagan administration have been described as allowing a return to COINTELPRO tactics. Some radical groups accuse factional opponents of being FBI informants or assume the FBI is infiltrating the movement. COINTELPRO survivor Filiberto Ojeda Rios was killed by the FBI's hostage rescue team in 2005, his death described as an assassination by a United Nations special committee.\n\nAuthors such as Ward Churchill, Rex Weyler, and Peter Matthiessen allege that the federal government intended to acquire uranium deposits on the Lakota tribe's reservation land, and that this motivated a larger government conspiracy against AIM activists on the Pine Ridge reservation. Others believe COINTELPRO continues and similar actions are being taken against activist groups. Caroline Woidat says that, with respect to Native Americans, COINTELPRO should be understood within a historical context in which \"Native Americans have been viewed and have viewed the world themselves through the lens of conspiracy theory.\" Other authors argue that while some conspiracy theories related to COINTELPRO are unfounded, the issue of ongoing government surveillance and repression is real. FBI Agent Richard G. Held is known to have increased FBI support for the Guardians of the Oglala Nation (GOON) squads accused of the assault and murder of hundreds of AIM supporters. The Bureau refused to investigate the 64 cases of homicide directly linked to GOON, but committed its resources overwhelmingly to prosecute AIM.\n\nIn April 2018, the \"Atlanta Black Star\" characterized the FBI as still engaging in COINTELPRO behavior by surveilling the Black Lives Matter movement. In 2014, the FBI tracked an activist of the movement using tactics which \"The Intercept\" found \"reminiscent of a rich American history of targeting black Americans,\" including \"FBI's notorious COINTELPRO program,\" which \"was aimed at disrupting and infiltrating civil rights and black nationalist movements from 1956 to 1971.\" This practice, along with the imprisonment of black activists for their views, has been associated with the new FBI designation of \"Black Identity Extremists.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22705087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22705087", "title": "Calmfors–Driffill hypothesis", "text": "Calmfors–Driffill hypothesis\n\nThe Calmfors–Driffill hypothesis is a macroeconomic theory in labour economics that states that there is a direct relationship between the degree of collective bargaining in an economy and the level of unemployment. Specifically, it states that the relationship is roughly that of an 'inverted U': as trade union size increases from nil, unemployment increases, and then falls as unions begin to exercise monopoly power. It was advanced by Lars Calmfors and John Driffill.\n\nThe rationale is related to Mancur Olson's idea, from \"The Rise and Decline of Nations\", that organised interests are at their most harmful when they do not internalise significant amounts of the costs they impose on society, but become less harmful as their interest becomes encompassing enough to suffer the costs.\n"}
{"id": "12545698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12545698", "title": "Certified Emission Reduction", "text": "Certified Emission Reduction\n\nCertified Emission Reductions (CERs) are a type of emissions unit (or carbon credits) issued by the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) Executive Board for emission reductions achieved by CDM projects and verified by a DOE (Designated Operational Entity) under the rules of the Kyoto Protocol. \n\nCERs can be used by Annex 1 countries in order to comply with their emission limitation targets or by operators of installations covered by the European Union Emission Trading Scheme (EU ETS) in order to comply with their obligations to surrender EU Allowances, CERs or Emission Reduction Units (ERUs) for the emissions of their installations. CERs can be held by governmental and private entities on electronic accounts with the UN. \n\nCERs can be purchased from the primary market (purchased from an original party that makes the reduction) or secondary market (resold from a marketplace).\n\nAt present, most of the approved CERs are recorded in CDM Registry accounts only. It is only when the CER is actually sitting in an operator's trading account that its value can be monetized through being traded. The UNFCCC's International Transaction Log has already validated and transferred CERs into the accounts of some national climate registries, although European operators are waiting for the European Commission to facilitate the transfer of their units into the registries of their Member States.\n\nTemporary CERs and Long CERs are special types of CERs issued for forestry projects. They are two ways of accounting for non-permanence in forestry CDM project activities. Temporary CER or tCER is a CER issued for an afforestation or reforestation project activity under the CDM which expires at the end of the commitment period following the one during which it was issued. Long-term CER or lCER is a CER issued for an afforestation or reforestation project activity which expires at the end of its crediting period.\n\nIn August 2008 prices for CERS were $20 a tonne. By September 2012, prices for CERS had collapsed to below $5. This was in response to the Eurozone debt crisis reducing industrial activity and the over-allocation of emission allowances under the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme. \"The Economist\" described the Clean Development Mechanism as a \"complete disaster in the making\" and \"in need of a radical overhaul\". \"The Guardian\" also reported the prolonged downward trend in the price of CERs, which had been traded for as much as $20 (£12.50) a tonne before the global financial crisis to less than $3. In October 2012, CER prices fell to a new low of 1.36 euros a tonne on the London ICE Futures Europe exchange. In October 2012 Thomson Reuters Point Carbon calculated that the oversupply of units from the Clean Development Mechanism and Joint Implementation would be 1,400 million units for the period up to 2020. Point Carbon predicted that CER prices would to drop from €2 to 50 cents. On 12 December 2012 CER prices reached another record low of 31 cents.\n"}
{"id": "227295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227295", "title": "Courtier", "text": "Courtier\n\nA courtier (; ) is a person who is often in attendance at the court of a monarch or other royal personage. The earliest historical examples of courtiers were part of the retinues of rulers. Historically the court was the centre of government as well as the residence of the monarch, and the social and political life were often completely mixed together.\n\nMonarchs very often expected the more important nobles to spend much of the year in attendance on them at court. Not all courtiers were noble, as they included clergy, soldiers, clerks, secretaries, agents and middlemen with business at court. All those who held a court appointment could be called courtiers but not all courtiers held positions at court. Those personal favourites without business around the monarch, sometimes called the camarilla, were also considered courtiers. As social divisions became more rigid, a divide, barely present in Antiquity or the Middle Ages, opened between menial servants and other classes at court, although Alexandre Bontemps, the head valet de chambre of Louis XIV, was a late example of a \"menial\" who managed to establish his family in the nobility. The key commodities for a courtier were access and information, and a large court operated at many levels: many successful careers at court involved no direct contact with the monarch.\n\nThe largest and most famous European court was that of the Palace of Versailles at its peak, although the Forbidden City of Beijing was even larger and more isolated from national life. Very similar features marked the courts of all very large monarchies, including in India, Topkapı Palace in Istanbul, Ancient Rome, Byzantium or the Caliphs of Baghdad or Cairo. Early medieval European courts frequently travelled from place to place following the monarch as he travelled. This was particularly the case in the early French court. But, the European nobility generally had independent power and was less controlled by the monarch until around the 18th century, which gave European court life greater complexity.\n\nThe earliest courtiers coincide with the development of definable courts beyond the rudimentary entourages or retinues of rulers. There were probably courtiers in the courts of the Akkadian Empire where there is evidence of court appointments such as that of Cup-bearer which was one of the earliest court appointments and remained a position at courts for thousands of years. Two of the earliest titles referring to the general concept of a courtier were likely the \"ša rēsi\" and \"mazzāz pāni\" of the Neo-Assyrian Empire.. In Ancient Egypt we find a title translated as high steward or great overseer of the house. \n\nThe courts influenced by the court of the Neo-Assyrian Empire such as those of the Median Empire and the Achaemenid Empire had numerous courtiers After invading the Achaemenid Empire Alexander the Great returned with the concept of the complex court featuring a variety of courtiers to the Kingdom of Macedonia and Hellenistic Greece.\n\nThe imperial court of the Byzantine Empire at Constantinople would eventually contain at least a thousand courtiers. The court's systems became prevalent in other courts such as those in the Balkan states, the Ottoman Empire and Russia. Byzantinism is a term that was coined for this spread of the Byzantine system in the 19th century.\n\n\nIn modern English, the term is often used metaphorically for contemporary political favourites or hangers-on.\n\nIn modern literature, courtiers are often depicted as insincere, skilled at flattery and intrigue, ambitious and lacking regard for the national interest. More positive representations include the role played by members of the court in the development of politeness and the arts.\n\nExamples of courtiers in fiction:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51552534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51552534", "title": "Data activism", "text": "Data activism\n\nData activism is a specific type of activism which is enabled and constrained by the data infrastructure. It can use the production and collection of digital, volunteered, open data to challenge existing power relations. It is a form of media activism; however, this is not to be confused with slacktivism. It uses digital technology and data politically and proactively to foster social change. Forms of data activism can include digital humanitarianism and engaging in hackathons. Data activism is a social practice that is becoming more well-known with the expansion of technology, open-sourced software and the ability to communicate beyond an individual's immediate community. The culture of data activism emerged from previous forms of media activism, such as hacker movements. A defining characteristic of data activism is that ordinary citizens can participate, in comparison to previous forms of media activism where elite skill sets were required to participate.\n\nData activism can be the act of providing data on events or issues that individuals feel have not been properly addressed by those in power. For example, the first deployment of the Ushahidi platform in 2008 in Kenya visualized the post-electoral violence that had been silenced by the government and the new media. The social practice of data activism revolves around the idea that data is political in nature. Data activism allows individuals to quantify a specific issue. By collecting data for a particular purpose, it allows data activists to quantify and expose specific issues. As data infrastructures and data analytics grow, data activists can use evidence from data-driven science to support claims about social issues.\n\nA twofold classification of data activism has been proposed by Stefania Milan and Miren Gutiérrez, later explored more in-depth by Stefania Milan, according to the type of activists' engagement with data politics. 'Re-active data activism' can be characterized as motivated by the perception of massive data collection as a threat, whereas 'pro-active data activism' sees the increasing availability of data as an opportunity to foster social change. These differentiated approaches to datafication result in different repertoires of action, which are not at odds with each other, since they share a crucial feature: they take information as a constitutive force capable of shaping social reality and contribute to generate new alternative ways of interpreting it. Examples of re-active data activism include the development and usage of encryption and anonymity networks to resist corporate or state surveillance, while instances of pro-active data activism include projects in which data is mobilized to advocate for change and contest established social narratives. \n\nIt was discovered that in the United States between 180,000 and 500,000 rape kits were left unprocessed in storage in forensic warehouses. Registration and entry of criminal DNA had been inconsistent, which caused this large backlog in date rape kits. The delay in analysing these DNA samples would approximately be six months to two years. The information from rape kits was mean to be entered into the forensic warehouse database, but there was a disconnect between the warehouse system and the national DNA database Combined DNA Index System (CODIS) that left these rape kits unexamined. Testing these rape kits is important in identifying and prosecuting offenders, recognizing serial rapists, and providing justice for rape victims. The Ending the Backlog Initiative brought attention to this issue by demanding that the data from these rape kits be processed. It was this initiative that brought this issue to the attention of the United States government, who began stated that this was unacceptable and put $79 million in grants would be used to help eliminate the backlog of rape kits. The quantification of this data changed the ways in which the public perceived the process of analysing rape kits. This data was then used to gain the attention of politicians.\n\nWhile data activists may have good intentions, one criticism is that by allowing citizens to generate data without training or reliable forms of measurement, the data can be skewed or presented in different forms.\n\nAfter the Fukushima nuclear disaster in 2011, Safecast was an organization established by a group of citizens that were concerned about high levels of radiation in the area. After receiving conflicting messages about levels of radiation from different media sources and scientists, individuals were uncertain which information was the most reliable. This brought about a movement where citizens would use Geiger counter readings to measure levels of radiation and circulate that data over the internet so that it was accessible by the public. Safecast was developed as a means of producing multiple sources of data on radiation. It was assumed that if the data was collected by similar Geiger counter measurements in mass volume, the data produced was likely to be accurate. Safecast allows individuals to download the raw radiation data, but Safecast also visualizes the data. The data that is used to create a visual map is processed and categorized by Safecast. This data is different from the raw radiation data because it has been filtered, which presents the data in a different way than the raw data. The change in presentation of data may alter the information that individuals take from it, which can pose a threat if misunderstood.\n\n"}
{"id": "21775255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21775255", "title": "Federal Desktop Core Configuration", "text": "Federal Desktop Core Configuration\n\nThe Federal Desktop Core Configuration is a list of security settings recommended by the National Institute of Standards and Technology for general-purpose microcomputers that are connected directly to the network of a United States government agency.\n\nThe FDCC is a list of agreed upon Microsoft Windows operating system common core system functions, applications, files, and services that are changed in their configuration around which a framework for a more secure, and security-reliable MS Windows operating system was created. The standards were then made mandatory for every federal government computer effective Feb 1, 2008. If you wanted to connect to a federal office computer network your system had to meet or exceed the FDCC standard or you were denied access.\n\nFDCC applied only to Windows XP and Vista desktop and laptop computers and was replaced by the United States Government Configuration Baseline (USGCB), which included settings for Windows 7 and Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5.\n\nFor Windows 7, the NIST changed the naming convention to the US Government Computer Baseline (USGCB ver 2.0). In addition to un-classifying a general Windows settings guide, the NIST also publishes guides specifically for Windows Firewall, Internet Explorer, and a guide (Vista-Energy, for example) created to capture settings that adhere to energy conservation policies.\n\nOn 20 March 2007 the Office of Management and Budget issued a memorandum instructing United States government agencies to develop plans for using the Microsoft Windows XP and Vista security configurations. The United States Air Force common security configurations for Windows XP were proposed as an early model on which standards could be developed.\nThe FDCC baseline was developed (and is maintained) by the National Institute of Standards and Technology in collaboration with OMB, DHS, DOI, DISA, NSA, USAF and Microsoft, with input from public comment. It applies to Windows XP Professional and Vista systems only—these security policies are not tested (and according to the NIST, will not work) on Windows 9\"x\"/ME/NT/2000 or Windows Server 2003.\n\nMajor Version 1.1 (released 31 October 2008) had no new or changed settings, but expanded SCAP reporting options. As with all previous versions, the standard is applicable to general-purpose workstations and laptops for end users. Windows XP and Vista systems in use as servers are exempt from this standard. Also exempt are embedded computers and \"special purpose\" systems (defined as specialized scientific, medical, process control, and experimental systems), though still recommends that FDCC security configuration be considered \"where feasible and appropriate\".\n\nThe FDCC settings, generally speaking, block open connections in operating systems, disables functions, disables rarely used applications in the SOHO environment, disables unnecessary services, changes permissions on items, changes the way log files are collected and recorded, affects Group Policy Object (GPO) settings, and alters entries in the Windows system registry.\n\nInfoWeek introduced the FDCC to mostly administrators and engineers with the article titled ‘The Feds Don’t Allow It. Should You?’ written by Kelly Jackson Higgins of DarkReading.com and published on February 4, 2008.\n\nDue to the complexity of the guidelines response initially was slow. Implementation took time while the settings were internally researched by both government and enterprise implementation techs. The NIST and the NSA published guidelines in hundreds-of-page texts and introduced what they called SCAP files for applications. (See Wikipedia SCAP page)\n\nThe Windows platform was built for easy interoperability and networking and therefore left opportunities within the operating systems for all types of auto- and semi-automatic connections to other computers. These weren’t flaws or programming mistakes, it was purposefully built that way. An example of this can be found by looking at the Windows Remote Connection program which is \"enabled by default\" after a typical Windows operating system installation. The FDCC/USGCB configuration, for instance, reverses that setting so that you have to manually re-enable to allow remote connections.\n\nOrganizations required to document FDCC compliance can do so by using SCAP tools.\n\nThere are 600+ settings in the average FDCC/USGCB document – but not all of them are usable for the average small or home office (SOHO) computer. For instance, released on 20 June 2008, FDCC Major Version 1.0 specifies 674 settings. For example, \"all wireless interfaces should be disabled\". In recognition that not all recommended settings will be practical for every system, exceptions (such as \"authorized enterprise wireless networks\") can be made if documented in an FDCC deviation report.\n\nStrict implementation of all of the recommended settings has been known to cause usability issues. The NIST publishes a list of known issues and it can be found here (<nowiki>https://usgcb.nist.gov/usgcb/microsoft_content.html</nowiki>). There are a few third-party software vendors that have emerged that claim to have tested settings in a SOHO environment however, at this time, the general public still remains relatively unaware of the FDCC and USGCB security settings developed and put forward by the NIST.\n"}
{"id": "49215811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49215811", "title": "Federal Lezgian National and Cultural Autonomy", "text": "Federal Lezgian National and Cultural Autonomy\n\nFederal Lezgian National and Cultural Autonomy is the largest public organization in Russia, founded in 1999 in Moscow. It is headquartered in the capital, and the responsibilities of the organization cover the entire country.\n\n"}
{"id": "48783240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48783240", "title": "History of the franchise in Ireland", "text": "History of the franchise in Ireland\n\nThe basic law of the electoral franchise in the Republic of Ireland is Article 16 of the Constitution of Ireland, which states who can vote for Dáil Éireann, the lower house of the Oireachtas or parliament. Irish citizens who are Dáil electors have the right to vote in all other elections, though not conversely.\n\nThe relevant parts of the Constitution state:\nIn the pre-1801 Irish House of Commons, the forty-shilling freehold was used in county constituencies, while borough constituencies were mostly rotten boroughs with closed electorates. Roman Catholics were explicitly disenfranchised from the Disenfranchising Act of 1727 to 1793, although earlier penal laws had effectively prevented Catholics from voting: the 1703 Popery Act required an oath of abjuration which most found incompatible with their faith, and a 1716 act required this oath at least six months before an election.\n\nFrom the Act of Union 1800 to the 1922 creation of the Irish Free State, Irish electoral law was largely the same as contemporary British law. One difference was that voter registration was every eight years in Ireland instead of annually. The Roman Catholic Relief Act 1829, which allowed Catholics to stand for Parliament, also increased the freeholder qualification from forty shillings (two pounds) to ten pounds, reducing the county constituencies electorate from c.216,000 to c.37,000. This was a quid-pro-quo to secure support from Protestants afraid of being overwhelmed by votes of less well-off Catholics. The Irish Reform Act 1832 was vaguely worded and provoked numerous court cases, although the ancillary Representation of the People (Ireland) Act 1832 increased the total electorate from c.75,000 to c.90,000. In the wake of the Great Famine, the Representation of the People (Ireland) Act 1850 quadrupled the electorate.\n\nFrom 1836, members of the Royal Irish Constabulary (RIC) and Dublin Metropolitan Police (DMP) were not allowed to vote. This was to preserve the impression of the forces' political impartiality. While police in England and Wales were enfranchised from 1887, this did not extend to Ireland.\n\nWomen's suffrage developed as in Great Britain. In England and Wales, an 1894 act allowed women to vote for the local authorities established in 1888; the Local Government (Ireland) Act 1898 replicated both the 1888 authorities and the 1894 suffrage in Ireland. The Representation of the People Act 1918 allowed all men over 21 and most women over 30 to vote in parliamentary elections. The Second Dáil resolved to hold a general election in June 1922 for an assembly which would be both the Third Dáil of the soon-to-be-defunct Irish Republic and a Provisional Parliament for the nascent Irish Free State. The republican minority wanted the franchise for this election to be equal for men and women, but the pro-Free State majority argued it was impractical and unlawful to change the 1918 franchise. Both sides were motivated by the belief that young women tended to be republican. The Second Dáil did agree that, if the post-election government, which was responsible to the new assembly, were to collapse, the consequent election would be on \"Adult Suffrage\".\n\nThe 1922 Constitution of the Irish Free State reduced the voting age for women in elections for Dáil Éireann (the lower house) from 30 to 21, the same as for men. This was retained by the 1937 Constitution of Ireland. The Seanad (upper house) voting age was 30 for both sexes from its establishment in 1922 until 1928, when direct election was abolished. The only direct election was in 1925. \n\nUniversity constituencies, where graduates vote for legislators, existed in the lower house until 1937, and have been in the Seanad since its recreation in 1938. Dublin University was enfranchised in the pre-Union Commons in 1613, and the National University of Ireland at Westminster in 1918. In 1979, the Seventh Amendment of the Constitution allowed for the franchise to be extended to graduates of other Irish third-level institutions, but this has not been invoked. One of the arguments made in support of the rejected 2013 proposal to abolish the Seanad was the elitism of giving graduates an extra legislative vote; some proposals for Seanad reform would give non-graduates a vote for the Vocational panel senators instead.\n\nIn 1935, the voting age for women was reduced from 30 to 21 for local elections In 1960, members of the Garda Síochána were allowed to vote; the 1923 electoral act had carried forward the previous ban on RIC and DMP members voting for parliament, though they could vote in local elections. In 1972, the Fourth Amendment of the Constitution reduced the voting age to 18.\n\nIn 1985, UK citizens gained the right to vote in Dáil elections, reciprocating Irish citizens' right to vote in UK elections under the Ireland Act 1949. The Ninth Amendment of the Constitution was passed in 1984 to allow for this. The Electoral Amendment Bill 1983 had purported to allow UK citizens to vote, but was ruled to be unconstitutional by the Supreme Court. The 1985 change, restated in 1992, allows the Dáil franchise to be similarly extended on a reciprocal basis to citizens of other countries. this has not been applied.\n\nSince 2006, prisoners have been able to vote. They were never explicitly prohibited from voting, but the lack of postal voting and inability to travel to an external polling station effectively disenfranchised them.\n\nThere is no right of Irish expatriates to vote, except for Seanad university seats. Proposals to extend the right to the Seanad more generally, and to Presidential elections, have been made at intervals since the 1990s.\n"}
{"id": "991147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=991147", "title": "Human Environment Animal Protection", "text": "Human Environment Animal Protection\n\nThe Party Human Environment Animal Protection (, short form: Animal Protection Party, ) is a political party in Germany, founded in 1993. In 2014 one candidate was elected to the European Parliament. As of December 2014 the party has no members in the state parliaments, the European Parliament or the Bundestag.\n\nThe party aspires to turn away from the anthropocentric view of life. Its main goal is the introduction of more animal rights into the German constitution. Those include the right to live and the protection from physical and psychological damages. The Tierschutzpartei also demands prohibition of animal testing, bullfighting, hunting, the production of furs, circus animals and agricultural animal husbandry, as well as the adaptation of the people to veganism. The party supports a ban on genetic engineering and wants a reduction of car traffic and an immediate exit from nuclear energy. Economically it supports more social justice, a stamp duty and a free basic income.\n\nIn the 2014 European parliament elections, the Animal Protection Party received 1.25% of the national vote (366,303 votes in total) and returned one MEP, Stefan Eck, who sits with the EUL-NGL. In December 2014 Eck left the party and became an independent MEP in the EUL-NGL-group.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3163132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3163132", "title": "Human rights in Kazakhstan", "text": "Human rights in Kazakhstan\n\nKazakhstan's human rights situation is uniformly described as poor by independent observers. Human Rights Watch says that \"Kazakhstan heavily restricts freedom of assembly, speech, and religion. In 2014, authorities closed newspapers, jailed or fined dozens of people after peaceful but unsanctioned protests, and fined or detained worshipers for practicing religion outside state controls. Government critics, including opposition leader Vladimir Kozlov, remained in detention after unfair trials. Torture remains common in places of detention.\"\n\nKazakhstan's political structure concentrates power in the presidency. President Nursultan Nazarbayev has been the country's leader since 1989, when he was named First Secretary of the Communist Party of the Kazakh SSR, and was elected the nation's first president following its independence from the Soviet Union in December 1991. No election ever held in Kazakhstan has met international standards.\n\nIn 2012 Kazakhstan was elected as a member of the United Nations Human Rights Council. During the Universal Periodic Review of Human Rights in 2014, national representatives \"commended Kazakhstan’s establishment of a mechanism to prevent torture and of a national human rights institution\" but \"shared concerns about legal restrictions on freedom\".\n\nPolitical expression was reported to be restricted in Kazakhstan in the months leading up to presidential elections in December 2005, according to observers, including Human Rights Watch and Freedom House. Kazakh authorities reportedly attempted to restrict freedom of speech and shut down independent media and civil society groups. In September, the Vremya printing house unexpectedly cancelled contracts with seven newspapers, with no explanation given. Likewise, other printing firms in Kazakhstan's former capital, Almaty, also refused to print the publications. After a week-long hunger strike by the editors of these papers, the Daur publishing house agreed to publish five of the newspapers. Virtually all of Kazakhstan's broadcast media are owned by firms closely associated with the government; newspapers are some of the few sources of independent reporting.\n\nSome outsider observers, including HRW, have noted increasing anxiety in the Kazakh government after recent democratic revolutions in former Soviet states including Georgia, Ukraine and Kyrgyzstan. Efforts to restrict dissent ahead of the 2 December 2005 elections may have indicated the government's attempt to prevent such transformation from occurring in Kazakhstan.\n\nIn 2016 Astana hosted a roundtable discussion on Human Rights Day, December 10. The event brought together Kazakh officials and representatives of international organizations, such as International Organisation for Migration (IOM), EU, United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE).\n\nOn November 10, 2018 Dmitry Senyavskii a trade union leader in Kazakhstan was attacked and viciously beaten up by some unidentified persons and was taken to hospital. The International Labour Organization (ILO) has frequently called on the government of Kazakhstan to modify the restricting trade laws and maintain its commitments with international labor rights.\n\nAccording to a US government report released in 2014, in Kazakhstan:\nIn 1992 after gaining independence Kazakhstan adopted the Law on Freedom of Religion and Religious Associations, which aimed to ensure inter-faith tolerance and religious freedom. As of 2014, there were over 3400 religious organizations in Kazakhstan.\n\nHuman Rights watch however has said that \"Minority religious groups continued to be subjected to fines and short-term detention in 2014 for violating a restrictive religion law\". A UN special rapporteur on freedom of religion recommended \"far-reaching reforms\" to the 2011 religion law, finding, for example, that \"non-registered religious communities ... suffer from serious infringements of their freedom of religion.\"\n\nIn order to promote inter-confessional dialogue and prevent religious conflict worldwide, Kazakhstan hosts regular Congress of the Leaders of World and Traditional Religions. The first congress was held in 2003 and was attended by 17 religious delegations.\n\nIn order to address the threat of religious extremism, the Congress of the Leaders of World and Traditional Religions held international conference, Religions against Terrorism, on May 31, 2016. One day later the Congress held its 15 session in Astana.\n\nOn November 20, 2006, three buses full of riot police, two ambulances, two empty lorries, and executors of the Karasai district arrived at the community in sub-zero weather and evicted the Hare Krishna followers from thirteen homes, which the police proceeded to demolish. The Forum 18 News Service reported, \"Riot police who took part in the destruction threw personal belongings of the Hare Krishna devotees into the snow, and many devotees were left without clothes. Power for lighting and heating systems had been cut off before the demolition began. Furniture and larger household belongings were loaded onto trucks. Officials said these possessions would be destroyed. Two men who tried to prevent the bailiffs from entering a house to destroy it were seized by 15 police officers who twisted their hands and took them away to the police car.\" In response to these events the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe issued a statement: \"It appears that state-sponsored action has been focused upon members of the Hare Krishna community in a manner that suggests they have been targeted on the basis of their religious affiliation.\" Kazakh officials claims that the evictions were legitimate, and that the properties had been acquired illegally.\n\nIn 2008, in line with its \"Strategy for a New Partnership\" with Central Asia, the European Union agreed with the Republic of Kazakhstan to establish an annual human rights dialogue, and its first round was held on 15 October 2008 in Astana.\n\nThese dialogues constitute an essential part of the EU's overall strategy to promote respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, sustainable development, peace and stability. On 12 November 2014 the European Union and Kazakhstan held the sixth round of the annual Human Rights Dialogue in Brussels. The Kazakh delegation was led by Mr Yogan Merkel, First Deputy Prosecutor General, who was accompanied by Mr Vyacheslav Kalyuzhnyy, Director of the National Centre for Human Rights, and other senior officials. The EU delegation was led by Mr Silvio Gonzato, Director for Human Rights and Democracy at the European External Action Service. The dialogue was held in a positive and constructive atmosphere. The EU welcomed Kazakhstan's development of a functioning National Preventive Mechanism for the monitoring of places of detention, and encouraged further steps to strengthen the Office of the Ombudsman and the National Centre for Human Rights. The EU acknowledged Kazakhstan's recent engagement in the second cycle of the Universal Period Review (UPR) process at the UN Human Rights Council, and encouraged the Kazakh authorities to consider accepting a number of UPR recommendations that it initially did not support. \nThe next round of the EU-Kazakhstan Human Rights Dialogue is expected to take place in Astana in 2015.\n\nOSCE and the Kazakhstan International Bureau for Human Rights and Rule of Law conduct joint training programs on human rights.\n\nKazakhstan was ranked 65th in the Rule of Law Index 2015. The country climbed six positions up the rankings compared to the previous year.\n\nIn 2015 Kazakhstan introduced amendments to the law on nongovernmental organisation (NGO) activities. The law guarantees to NGOs free access to public, international and private financing allowing them to actively participate in the social and political development of the country.\n\nIn January 2017 Kazakhstan's President proposed a reform aimed at delegating some of the President's powers to the Parliament. This initiative is expected to create a stronger system of checks and balances in Kazakhstan.\n\nKazakhstan is a member of the Hague Conference on Private International Law (HCCH) since May 2017. The HCCH is aimed at promoting the harmonisation of conflict of laws principles in diverse subject matters within private international law, which contributes to the promotion of rule of law.\n\nKazakhstan supports co-existence of different cultures. The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan supports nearly 200 centres where children and adults can study 30 different languages.\n\nIn 2015, the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan (APK) introduced a Day of Gratitude as a new holiday of Kazakhstan. The proposal to establish it was delivered by President Nursultan Nazarbayev. The Day of Gratitude is celebrated on 1 March and marks the historic past and multi-ethnic unity of the country.\n\n59.2% of the Kazakhstan population is Kazakh, 29.6% is Russian, while 10.2% comprises Germans, Tatars, Ukrainians, Uzbek and Uyghurs. Representatives of more than 140 ethnic groups live in Kazakhstan and some 818 ethnic and cultural associations operate under the auspices of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.\n\nKazakhstan's Human Rights Commissioner for Children's Rights and UNICEF Representative for Kazakhstan adopted a Statement of Intentions on Cooperation. The parties agreed to take necessary actions to develop an independent system of monitoring of ensuring children's rights in Kazakhstan.\n\nThe Kazakhstan 2050 Strategy places high emphasis on the protection of childhood. Kazakhstan adopted over 90 laws and other normative acts aimed at protecting children's rights.\n\nKazakhstan is a party to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child.\n\nThe institution of the Commissioner for human rights (Kazakhstan's Ombudsman) was established on September 19, 2002 by the President’s Decree. The Commissioner and his associated organization, the National Center for Human Rights, are empowered to investigate human rights issues in the government per the decree of President Nazarbayev.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1977603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1977603", "title": "Irish Alliance for Europe", "text": "Irish Alliance for Europe\n\nThe Irish Alliance for Europe was founded in summer 2002 by Professor Brigid Laffan of University College Dublin in order to lead the civil society campaign in favour of the Treaty of Nice at the second Irish referendum. Adrian Langan was recruited as full-time Campaign Director from a similar, voluntary, position in Ireland for Europe. It led all sectors of Irish society, campaigning effectively through the mass media, local canvassing, and postering nationwide. \n\nIn late 2007, the organisation was resurrected by Ruairi Quinn TD and former European Movement Ireland CEO, Brendan Kiely in order to campaign on the Lisbon Treaty referendum..\n\n"}
{"id": "45397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45397", "title": "Jane Goodall", "text": "Jane Goodall\n\nDame Jane Morris Goodall (; born Valerie Jane Morris-Goodall, 3 April 1934), formerly Baroness Jane van Lawick-Goodall, is an English primatologist and anthropologist. Considered to be the world's foremost expert on chimpanzees, Goodall is best known for her over 55-year study of social and family interactions of wild chimpanzees since she first went to Gombe Stream National Park, Tanzania in 1960. She is the founder of the Jane Goodall Institute and the Roots & Shoots programme, and she has worked extensively on conservation and animal welfare issues. She has served on the board of the Nonhuman Rights Project since its founding in 1996. In April 2002, she was named a UN Messenger of Peace.\n\nValerie Jane Morris-Goodall was born in 1934 in Hampstead, to businessman Mortimer Herbert Morris-Goodall (1907–2001) and Margaret Myfanwe Joseph (1906–2000), a novelist from Milford Haven, Pembrokeshire who wrote under the name Vanne Morris-Goodall.\n\nAs a child, as an alternative to a teddy bear, her father gave Goodall a stuffed chimpanzee named Jubilee, and she has said her fondness for this figure started her early love of animals, commenting that \"My mother's friends were horrified by this toy, thinking it would frighten me and give me nightmares.\" Today, Jubilee still sits on Goodall's dresser in London.\n\nGoodall has a younger sister, Judith, who shares the same birthday. The two were born four years apart.\n\nGoodall had always been passionate about animals and Africa, which brought her to the farm of a friend in the Kenya highlands in 1957. From there, she obtained work as a secretary, and acting on her friend's advice, she telephoned Louis Leakey, the notable Kenyan archaeologist and palaeontologist, with no other thought than to make an appointment to discuss animals. Leakey, believing that the study of existing great apes could provide indications of the behaviour of early hominids, was looking for a chimpanzee researcher, though he kept the idea to himself. Instead, he proposed that Goodall work for him as a secretary. After obtaining approval from his wife Mary Leakey, Louis sent Goodall to Olduvai Gorge in Tanganyika (present-day Tanzania), where he laid out his plans.\n\nIn 1958, Leakey sent Goodall to London to study primate behaviour with Osman Hill and primate anatomy with John Napier. Leakey raised funds, and on 14 July 1960, Goodall went to Gombe Stream National Park, becoming the first of what would come to be called The Trimates. She was accompanied by her mother, whose presence was necessary to satisfy the requirements of David Anstey, chief warden, who was concerned for their safety.\n\nLeakey arranged funding and in 1962, he sent Goodall, who had no degree, to Cambridge University. She went to Newnham College, and obtained a PhD degree in ethology. She became the eighth person to be allowed to study for a PhD there without first having obtained a BA or BSc. Her thesis was completed in 1965 under the tutorship of Robert Hinde, titled \"Behaviour of free-living chimpanzees\", detailing her first five years of study at the Gombe Reserve.\n\nGoodall has been married twice. On 28 March 1964, she married a Dutch nobleman, wildlife photographer Baron Hugo van Lawick, at Chelsea Old Church, London, and became known during their marriage as Baroness Jane van Lawick-Goodall. The couple had a son, Hugo Eric Louis (born 1967); they divorced in 1974. The following year, she married Derek Bryceson (a member of Tanzania's parliament and the director of that country's national parks); he died of cancer in October 1980. With his position in the Tanzanian government as head of the country's national park system, Bryceson was able to protect Goodall's research project and implement an embargo on tourism at Gombe while he was alive.\n\nGoodall has expressed fascination with Bigfoot.\n\nWhen asked if she believes in God, Goodall said in September 2010: \"I don't have any idea of who or what God is. But I do believe in some great spiritual power. I feel it particularly when I'm out in nature. It's just something that's bigger and stronger than what I am or what anybody is. I feel it. And it's enough for me.\"\n\nGoodall is best known for her study of chimpanzee social and family life. She began studying the Kasakela chimpanzee community in Gombe Stream National Park, Tanzania, in 1960. Without collegiate training directing her research, Goodall observed things that strict scientific doctrines may have overlooked. Instead of numbering the chimpanzees she observed, she gave them names such as Fifi and David Greybeard, and observed them to have unique and individual personalities, an unconventional idea at the time. She found that, \"it isn't only human beings who have personality, who are capable of rational thought [and] emotions like joy and sorrow.\" She also observed behaviours such as hugs, kisses, pats on the back, and even tickling, what we consider \"human\" actions. Goodall insists that these gestures are evidence of \"the close, supportive, affectionate bonds that develop between family members and other individuals within a community, which can persist throughout a life span of more than 50 years.\" These findings suggest that similarities between humans and chimpanzees exist in more than genes alone, but can be seen in emotion, intelligence, and family and social relationships.\n\nGoodall's research at Gombe Stream is best known to the scientific community for challenging two long-standing beliefs of the day: that only humans could construct and use tools, and that chimpanzees were vegetarians. While observing one chimpanzee feeding at a termite mound, she watched him repeatedly place stalks of grass into termite holes, then remove them from the hole covered with clinging termites, effectively \"fishing\" for termites. The chimps would also take twigs from trees and strip off the leaves to make the twig more effective, a form of object modification which is the rudimentary beginnings of toolmaking. Humans had long distinguished ourselves from the rest of the animal kingdom as \"Man the Toolmaker\". In response to Goodall's revolutionary findings, Louis Leakey wrote, \"We must now redefine man, redefine tool, or accept chimpanzees as human!\".\n\nIn contrast to the peaceful and affectionate behaviours she observed, Goodall also found an aggressive side of chimpanzee nature at Gombe Stream. She discovered that chimps will systematically hunt and eat smaller primates such as colobus monkeys. Goodall watched a hunting group isolate a colobus monkey high in a tree, block all possible exits, then one chimpanzee climbed up and captured and killed the colobus. The others then each took parts of the carcass, sharing with other members of the troop in response to begging behaviours. The chimps at Gombe kill and eat as much as one-third of the colobus population in the park each year. This alone was a major scientific find which challenged previous conceptions of chimpanzee diet and behaviour.\n\nBut perhaps more startling, and disturbing, was the tendency for aggression and violence within chimpanzee troops. Goodall observed dominant females deliberately killing the young of other females in the troop to maintain their dominance, sometimes going as far as cannibalism. She says of this revelation, \"During the first ten years of the study I had believed […] that the Gombe chimpanzees were, for the most part, rather nicer than human beings. […] Then suddenly we found that chimpanzees could be brutal—that they, like us, had a darker side to their nature.\" She described the 1974–1978 Gombe Chimpanzee War in her memoir, \"Through a Window: My Thirty Years with the Chimpanzees of Gombe\". Her findings revolutionised contemporary knowledge of chimpanzee behaviour, and were further evidence of the social similarities between humans and chimpanzees, albeit in a much darker manner.\n\nGoodall also set herself apart from the traditional conventions of the time by naming the animals in her studies of primates, instead of assigning each a number. Numbering was a nearly universal practice at the time, and thought to be important in the removal of one's self from the potential for emotional attachment to the subject being studied. Setting herself apart from other researchers also led her to develop a close bond with the chimpanzees and to become, to this day, the only human ever accepted into chimpanzee society. She was the lowest ranking member of a troop for a period of 22 months. Among those that Goodall named during her years in Gombe were:\n\nIn 1977, Goodall established the Jane Goodall Institute (JGI), which supports the Gombe research, and she is a global leader in the effort to protect chimpanzees and their habitats. With nineteen offices around the world, the JGI is widely recognised for community-centred conservation and development programs in Africa. Its global youth program, Roots & Shoots began in 1991 when a group of 16 local teenagers met with Goodall on her back porch in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. They were eager to discuss a range of problems they knew about from first-hand experience that caused them deep concern. The organisation now has over 10,000 groups in over 100 countries.\n\nDue to an overflow of handwritten notes, photographs, and data piling up at Jane's home in Dar es Salaam in the mid-1990s, the Jane Goodall Institute's Center for Primate Studies was created at the University of Minnesota to house and organise this data. Currently all of the original Jane Goodall archives reside there and have been digitised and analysed and placed in an online database. On 17 March 2011, Duke University spokesman Karl Bates announced that the archives will move to Duke, with Anne E. Pusey, Duke's chairman of evolutionary anthropology, overseeing the collection. Pusey, who managed the archives in Minnesota and worked with Goodall in Tanzania, had worked at Duke for a year.\n\nToday, Goodall devotes virtually all of her time to advocacy on behalf of chimpanzees and the environment, travelling nearly 300 days a year. Goodall is also a board member for the world's largest chimpanzee sanctuary outside of Africa, Save the Chimps in Fort Pierce, Florida.\n\nGoodall credits the 1986 \"Understanding Chimpanzees\" conference, hosted by the Chicago Academy of Sciences, with shifting her focus from observation of chimpanzees to a broader and more intense concern with animal-human conservation. She is the former president of Advocates for Animals, an organisation based in Edinburgh, Scotland, that campaigns against the use of animals in medical research, zoos, farming and sport.\n\nGoodall is a vegetarian and advocates the diet for ethical, environmental, and health reasons. In \"The Inner World of Farm Animals\", Goodall writes that farm animals are \"far more aware and intelligent than we ever imagined and, despite having been bred as domestic slaves, they are individual beings in their own right. As such, they deserve our respect. And our help. Who will plead for them if we are silent?\" Goodall has also said: \"Thousands of people who say they 'love' animals sit down once or twice a day to enjoy the flesh of creatures who have been treated so with little respect and kindness just to make more meat.\"\n\nIn April 2008, Goodall gave a lecture entitled \"Reason for Hope\" at the University of San Diego's Joan B. Kroc Institute for Peace & Justice Distinguished Lecture Series.\n\nIn May 2008, Goodall controversially described Edinburgh Zoo's new primate enclosure as a \"wonderful facility\" where monkeys \"are probably better off [than those] living in the wild in an area like Budongo, where one in six gets caught in a wire snare, and countries like Congo, where chimpanzees, monkeys and gorillas are shot for food commercially.\" This was in conflict with Advocates for Animals' position on captive animals. In June 2008, Goodall confirmed that she had resigned the presidency of the organisation which she had held since 1998, citing her busy schedule and explaining, \"I just don't have time for them.\"\n\nGoodall is a patron of population concern charity Population Matters, and is currently an ambassador for Disneynature.\n\nIn 2011, Goodall became a patron of Australian animal protection group Voiceless, the animal protection institute. \"I have for decades been concerned about factory farming, in part because of the tremendous harm inflicted on the environment, but also because of the shocking ongoing cruelty perpetuated on millions of sentient beings.\"\n\nIn 2012, Goodall took on the role of challenger for the Engage in Conservation Challenge with the DO School, formerly known as the D&F Academy. She worked with a group of aspiring social entrepreneurs to create a workshop to engage young people in conserving biodiversity, and to tackle a perceived global lack of awareness of the issue.\n\nIn 2014, Goodall wrote to Air France executives criticizing the airline's continued transport of monkeys to laboratories. Goodall called the practice \"cruel\" and \"traumatic\" for the monkeys involved. The same year Goodall also wrote to the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to criticize maternal deprivation experiments on baby monkeys in NIH laboratories.\n\nPrior to the 2015 UK general election, she was one of several celebrities who endorsed the parliamentary candidacy of the Green Party's Caroline Lucas.\n\nGoodall is a critic of fox hunting and was among more than 20 high-profile people who signed a letter to Members of Parliament in 2015 to oppose Conservative prime minister David Cameron's plan to amend the Hunting Act 2004.\n\nSome primatologists have suggested flaws in Goodall's methodology which may call into question the validity of her observations. Goodall used unconventional practices in her study, for example, naming individuals instead of numbering them. At the time, numbering was used to prevent emotional attachment and loss of objectivity.\n\nGoodall wrote in 1993: \"When, in the early 1960s, I brazenly used such words as 'childhood', 'adolescence', 'motivation', 'excitement', and 'mood' I was much criticised. Even worse was my crime of suggesting that chimpanzees had 'personalities'. I was ascribing human characteristics to nonhuman animals and was thus guilty of that worst of ethological sins -anthropomorphism.\"\n\nMany standard methods aim to avoid interference by observers, and in particular some believe that the use of feeding stations to attract Gombe chimpanzees has altered normal foraging and feeding patterns and social relationships. This argument is the focus of a book published by Margaret Power in 1991. It has been suggested that higher levels of aggression and conflict with other chimpanzee groups in the area were due to the feeding, which could have created the \"wars\" between chimpanzee social groups described by Goodall, aspects of which she did not witness in the years before artificial feeding began at Gombe. Thus, some regard Goodall's observations as distortions of normal chimpanzee behaviour. Goodall herself acknowledged that feeding contributed to aggression within and between groups, but maintained that the effect was limited to alteration of the intensity and not the nature of chimpanzee conflict, and further suggested that feeding was necessary for the study to be effective at all. Craig Stanford of the Jane Goodall Research Institute at the University of Southern California states that researchers conducting studies with no artificial provisioning have a difficult time viewing any social behaviour of chimpanzees, especially those related to inter-group conflict.\n\nSome recent studies, such as those by Crickette Sanz in the Goualougo Triangle (Congo) and Christophe Boesch in the Taï National Park (Ivory Coast), have not shown the aggression observed in the Gombe studies. However, other primatologists disagree that the studies are flawed; for example, Jim Moore provides a critique of Margaret Powers' assertions and some studies of other chimpanzee groups have shown aggression similar to that in Gombe even in the absence of feeding.\n\nOn 22 March 2013, Hachette Book Group announced that Goodall's and co-author Gail Hudson's new book, \"Seeds of Hope,\" would not be released on 2 April as planned due to the discovery of plagiarised portions. A reviewer for the \"Washington Post\" found unattributed sections lifted from websites about organic tea, tobacco, and \"an amateurish astrology site\", as well as from Wikipedia. Goodall apologised and stated, \"It is important to me that the proper sources are credited, and I will be working diligently with my team to address all areas of concern. My goal is to ensure that when this book is released it is not only up to the highest of standards, but also that the focus be on the crucial messages it conveys.\" The book was released on 1 April 2014, after review and the addition of 57 pages of endnotes.\n\nOne of Gary Larson's \"Far Side\" cartoons shows two chimpanzees grooming. One finds a blonde human hair on the other and inquires, \"Conducting a little more 'research' with that Jane Goodall tramp?\" Goodall herself was in Africa at the time, and the Jane Goodall Institute thought this was in bad taste, and had their lawyers draft a letter to Larson and his distribution syndicate, in which they described the cartoon as an \"atrocity.\" They were stymied by Goodall herself when she returned and saw the cartoon, as she stated that she found the cartoon amusing. Since then, all profits from sales of a shirt featuring this cartoon go to the Jane Goodall Institute. Goodall wrote a preface to \"The Far Side Gallery 5\", detailing her version of the controversy, and the Institute's letter was included next to the cartoon in the complete \"Far Side\" collection. She praised Larson's creative ideas, which often compare and contrast the behaviour of humans and animals. In 1988, when Larson visited Gombe he was attacked by a chimpanzee named Frodo.\n\nGoodall has received many honours for her environmental and humanitarian work, as well as others. She was named a Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire in a ceremony held in Buckingham Palace in 2004. In April 2002, Secretary-General Kofi Annan named Goodall a United Nations Messenger of Peace. Her other honours include the Tyler Prize for Environmental Achievement, the French Legion of Honor, Medal of Tanzania, Japan's prestigious Kyoto Prize, the Benjamin Franklin Medal in Life Science, the Gandhi-King Award for Nonviolence and the Spanish Prince of Asturias Awards. She is also a member of the advisory board of \"BBC Wildlife\" magazine and a patron of Population Matters (formerly the Optimum Population Trust). She has received many tributes, honours, and awards from local governments, schools, institutions, and charities around the world. Goodall is honoured by The Walt Disney Company with a plaque on the Tree of Life at Walt Disney World's Animal Kingdom theme park, alongside a carving of her beloved David Greybeard, the original chimpanzee which approached Goodall during her first year at Gombe. In 2010, Dave Matthews and Tim Reynolds held a benefit concert at DAR Constitution Hall in Washington DC to commemorate Gombe 50: a global celebration of Jane Goodall's pioneering chimpanzee research and inspiring vision for our future.\n\n\n\n\n\nGoodall is the subject of more than 40 films: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "3427226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3427226", "title": "John Tengo Jabavu", "text": "John Tengo Jabavu\n\nJohn Tengo Jabavu (11 January 1859 – 10 September 1921) was a political activist and the editor of South Africa's first newspaper to be written in Xhosa.\n\nIn 1876, Jabavu took over editorship of the \"Isigidimi samaXhosa\" (\"The Xhosa Messenger\"), and by the early 1880s had become an important political force. Jabavu's writings tended to focus on the threat of growing Afrikaner nationalism and his demands for equal rights for South Africa's black population. Tengo Jabavu was also known as a proponent of women's rights as well as public education.\n\nIn recognition of his political influence, a group of prominent Cape Colony political figures approached Tengo Jabavu in 1883 with a request for him to stand for election to the Cape Parliament. They recommended that he represent one of the constituencies of the Cape where Black African voters formed a significant percentage of the electorate, such as Victoria East. However Jabavu declined, citing the possibility that such a move would unite and aggravate reactionary elements in the Cape Parliament and would therefore be counterproductive. Nonetheless, he later lent his powerful support to the more liberal leaders of the Cape's South African Party against the repressive policies of Rhodes's \"Progressives\"\n\nIn 1884, Tengo Jabavu founded his own newspaper, \"Imvo Zabantsundu\" (\"Black Opinion\"); a year later, he married Elda Sakuba, who would die in 1900, leaving four sons. The eldest of these sons, Davidson Don Tengo Jabavu, would become a respected author and activist in his own right; the second eldest, Alexander, succeeded John Tengo Jabavu as editor of \"Imvo Zabantsundu\", following his 1921 death in the home of D.D.T. Jabavu at Fort Hare.\n\nIn the 1890s, Tengo Jabavu's movement \"Imbumba\" (\"The Union\") faced a growing rival, the South African Native National Congress led by Walter Rubusana. While it aspired to unity, Jabavu's movement was still perceived as dominated by Fengu people like Jabavu himself. By contrast, Rubusana's movement was perceived as dominated by Gcaleka. Rivalry was exacerbated by subtle ethnic tensions, but largely came to an end as some degree of unity was achieved under the larger African National Congress, intended finally to lay to rest \"the aberrations of the Xhosa-Fingo feud.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3245768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3245768", "title": "Kukoi Sanyang", "text": "Kukoi Sanyang\n\nKukoi Samba Sanyang (1952 – 18 June 2013) led a 1981 rebellion against the democratically elected Gambian government of President Dawda Jawara.\n\nOn 31 July 1981, while Jawara was abroad, a 12-member National Revolutionary Council (NRC) headed by Sanyang seized control of the country. The leftist NRC accused Jawara's government of being \"corrupt, tribalistic, and despotic\". They also announced the suspension of the country's constitution and proclaimed their intention to establish a \"dictatorship of the proletariat\".\n\nThe attempted coup ended on 5 August when Senegalese troops defeated the rebel forces. Sanyang took refuge in Libya, which had also given him some backing for the coup attempt.\n\nCharles Taylor visited Libya several times, probably between 1986 and 1989. He met with Sanyang and other Gambians who had participated in the 1981 coup attempt. In 1989 “Dr. Manning” was listed by the NPFL as Taylor's vice-president, but was soon edged out by Taylor and retired to manage a bar in Ouagadougou.\n\nIn 1995 the Farafenni army camp was attacked by half a dozen men, who killed some Gambian soldiers and held the camp for several hours. Some of the attackers, later captured, claimed they were Sanyang's collaborators. They have been condemned to death and are awaiting their execution. Another was arrested in 2003, is held in Banjul and is still on trial as to early 2007. In 2003 Sanyang based himself in Senegal and went several times to the Gambia to talk with Gambian President Yahya Jammeh at his Kanilai residence. In August 2003 the negotiations failed and Sanyang returned to Senegal for permanent residence. \n\nIn early June 2006, shortly before the Gambian presidential elections, he was along with some of his men put in detention, “at the house of a military officer in Bissau during a visit to that country”, says \"The Gambia Journal\" on January 30, 2007; “(at the Masuang Military Camp) in maximum military detention”, says The Gambia Echo on May 12, 2007. \"The Gambia Journal\" on January 30, also states that some military officers in Bissau blocked their own government in its attempts to hand Kukoi Sanyang over to the authorities in Banjul. According to \"The Gambia Echo\", That government has spent close to three million US dollars in its attempts at extradition, wanting to arrange for Sanyang's repatriation to Banjul against Casamance hard-line rebel leader being handed over to Senegal. It has been suggested that Sanyang may have been preparing an attack on Yahya Jammeh prealably to the elections, and then seize power. \n\nSanyang, Sheriffba Jobe and Mohammed Sowe escaped on May 11. Their pick up was organized by the UNHCR (United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees) office who got opportunistically alerted to their presence in Bissau's Justice ministry, while the Justice Minister was arguing with the Army Chief's services and refusing the impromptu transfer of the trio to his jurisdiction. Both Jobe and Sowe were accorded refugee status prior to their arrest, and are now under UN jurisdiction.\n\nHe died in Mali in 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "21719242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21719242", "title": "League of Nations Union", "text": "League of Nations Union\n\nThe League of Nations Union (LNU) was an organization formed in October 1918 in the United Kingdom to promote international justice, collective security and a permanent peace between nations based upon the ideals of the League of Nations. The League of Nations was established by the Great Powers as part of the Paris Peace Treaties, the international settlement that followed the First World War. The creation of a general association of nations was the final one of President Woodrow Wilson's Fourteen Points. The LNU became the largest and most influential organisation in the British peace movement. By the mid-1920s, it had over a quarter of a million registered subscribers and its membership eventually peaked at around 407,775 in 1931. By the 1940s, after the disappointments of the international crises of the 1930s and the descent into World War II, membership fell to about 100,000.\n\nThe LNU was formed on 13 October 1918 by the merger of the League of Free Nations Association and the League of Nations Society, two older organisations already working for the establishment of a new and transparent system of international relations, human rights (as then understood) and for world peace through disarmament and universal collective security, rather than traditional approaches such as the balance of power and the creation of power blocs through secret treaties.\n\nChapters of the LNU were set up in the dominions and in allied nations, including in the capital cities of all of the states of Australia.\n\nThe headquarters of the LNU were located variously at Buckingham Gate and Grosvenor Crescent, Belgravia. In the 1940s, it moved to smaller premises in St Martin's Lane, WC2, for reasons of economy.\n\nIts top organ of administration was the General Council, which met twice a year and was responsible for LNU policy under its 1925 Royal Charter of Incorporation. Beneath the General Council sat the Executive Committee, which met every two weeks and co-ordinated all activities, such as the LNU's campaigns and educational programmes; received reports from branches; monitored the output of specialist sub-groups and had responsibility for the LNU's staff.\n\nLNU branches had their own independent management structures.\n\nThe LNU played an important role in inter-war politics. According to one source it had been successful in converting the mainstream of British society, including labour, the churches and the principal newspapers, to the cause of the League of Nations. It also carried great influence in traditional political circles and particularly in the Liberal Party. One historian has gone so far as to describe the LNU as \"a key Liberal pressure group on foreign policy\" and to call Liberal Party members the \"true believers\" of the LNU. Its first president was Edward Grey the Liberal foreign secretary during the First World War. Other leading Liberal lights in the LNU included Geoffrey Mander Liberal MP for Wolverhampton East from 1929 to 1945 and Professor Gilbert Murray, who was this Vice-President of the League of Nations Society from 1916 and Chairman of the LNU after 1923. The recruitment of Conservative politicians to support the LNU and the League of Nations itself was more problematic for the LNU, but they pursued it to demonstrate the cross-party nature of the Union, which was important for the credibility of an organisation active politically in pursuit of international goals. High-profile Conservatives then came into the LNU, notably Lord Robert Cecil and Austen Chamberlain who were both members of the LNU Executive Committee. However, most Conservatives were deeply suspicious of the LNU's support for pacifism and disarmament, an analogous position being the opinions held by Conservatives in the 1980s in respect of the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament. Even Austen Chamberlain remarked that the Executive Committee contained \"some of the worst cranks I have ever known\". Winston Churchill said of the Union: \"What impresses me most about them is their long suffering and inexhaustible gullibility\".\n\nOne example of the significance of the political impact the LNU could have was its organisation of the Peace Ballot of 1935, when voters were asked to decide on questions relating to international disarmament and collective security. The Peace Ballot was not an official referendum, but more than eleven million people participated in it, representing strong support for the aims and objectives of the League of Nations, influencing policy makers and politicians. The results of the Peace Ballot were publicised worldwide. It has been suggested that one outcome was the interpretation of the result by the Axis powers as an indication of Britain's unwillingness to go to war on behalf of other nations although the vote for military action against international aggressors, as a matter of last resort, was almost three-to-one.\n\nThe LNU's other main activities were education and awareness raising. It provided publications, speakers and organised courses. Some of its programmes had a lasting impact on British schools.\n\nThe failure of the League of Nations to ensure collective security during the international crises of the 1920s and 1930s in prominent conflicts such as Manchuria, the Italian invasion of Abyssinia, the Spanish Civil War and the Russian invasion of Finland diminished public faith in the League and its principles. In addition the withdrawal, exclusion or expulsion of key nations from its counsels (the US refused to join, Germany and Japan left in 1933, Italy went in 1937 and the Soviet Union was expelled in 1939) made clear the limitations of collective security without full and active participation of all the powers.\n\nIt was plain a new international settlement would be needed after the Second World War and in 1948, the United Nations Association (UNA) was founded to promote the work of the United Nations Organisation, which was established in 1945 after the previous year's Dumbarton Oaks Conference. Ass a result, the LNU arranged for the transfer of its complete organisation and membership to the UNA. However, under the provisions of its Royal Charter, the LNU was able to continue until the mid-1970s in a limited capacity to handle bequests and administer the payment of pensions to former employees.\n\nThe papers, records, minute books, pamphlets, reports and leaflets of the LNU are deposited at the British Library of Political and Economic Science at the London School of Economics in Westminster.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33503481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33503481", "title": "List of films that depict class struggle", "text": "List of films that depict class struggle\n\nThis is a list of films in which the theme of class struggle is a prominent element.\n"}
{"id": "57661761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57661761", "title": "List of international trips made by Kim Jong-un", "text": "List of international trips made by Kim Jong-un\n\nThe following is a list of international trips made by Kim Jong-un during his tenure as Chairman of the Workers' Party of Korea, Chairman of the State Affairs Commission and Chairman of the Central Military Commission of the Workers' Party of Korea. He has made five foreign trips to three countries since he took office as Supreme leader of North Korea in 2011. His first international state visit was to China in March 2018.\n\nThe number of visits per country where he travelled are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41878548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41878548", "title": "List of purged members of the Romanian Academy", "text": "List of purged members of the Romanian Academy\n\nIn 1948, the new Romanian Communist regime undertook a political purge of the members of the Romanian Academy. In all, 113 members were removed that June, representing over two-thirds of the total membership at the beginning of the year. Fifty-five members of the \"old\" academy, mainly scientists, were admitted into the \"new\" one. In 1990 and 1994, following the Romanian Revolution, 97 of the purged members were restored to the academy, post-mortem. This list presents the names of the purged members, along with the names of those who died in prison and those who spent time in prison.\n\n"}
{"id": "54445890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54445890", "title": "Ma Man-fai", "text": "Ma Man-fai\n\nMa Man-fai (; 1905–1994) was a Hong Kong politician and social activist active in the 1950s and 1960s. He was the founder and the chairman of the United Nations Association of Hong Kong (UNAHK) from its establishment in 1953 to 1983.\n\nHe was born in Hong Kong in 1905 into a merchant family of Ma Ying-piu, an Australian Chinese who founded the Sincere Department Store in Hong Kong in 1900, and his wife Fok Hing-tong. Ma Ying-piu also a supporter of the anti-Qing revolution and funded Sun Yat-sen's revolutionary activities. Ma attributed his father and his time in London as a buyer of his father's company as the inspirations of his liberal values. His mother was a social reformer, founder of the Chinese YWCA of Hong Kong and an anti-mui tsai movement leader. Ma Man-fai was educated at the Lingnan College in Canton and lived in Mainland China during the Japanese occupation of Hong Kong.\n\nIn 1932, he was a director of the Tung Wah Hospital. He also held various public positions including vice-chairman of the Hong Kong City Hall, vice-chairman of the Sports Federation & Olympic Committee of Hong Kong and secretary of the Hong Kong Arts Festival. He was also a founder of various civic organisations including the Sino-British Club of Hong Kong, Hong Kong City Hall Committee, Hong Kong Music Association and Hong Kong Caritas Career Association.\n\nHe served as an interpreter for Governor Alexander Grantham. In January 1949, he co-founded the Reform Club of Hong Kong with other expatriates to push for constitutional reform as initiated by the Young Plan and the Hong Kong Chinese Reform Association with a Chinese-oriented membership. In 1953, he founded the United Nations Association of Hong Kong (UNAHK) to promoted the United Nations values to Hong Kong residents, especially the rights of self-government of the colonised people. He also held the \"Hyde Park Forum\" and the \"Public Opinion Forum\" weekly at the City Hall.\n\nIn 1963, he and other self-government advocates founded the Democratic Self-Government Party of Hong Kong to call for the internal self-government in Hong Kong. He was soon squeezed out from the party leadership. Without any result, the self-government party became less active in the 1970s.\n\nIn 1983, his position in the UNAHK was squeezed out and replaced by a pro-Beijing leadership. Afterwards, he left the association. He continued to hold the \"Hyde Park Forum\" at the City Hall until his death in 1994. He was remembered with his iconic long beard and cheongsam.\n"}
{"id": "2964756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2964756", "title": "Mexican oil expropriation", "text": "Mexican oil expropriation\n\nThe Mexican oil expropriation () was the nationalization of all petroleum reserves, facilities, and foreign oil companies in Mexico on March 18, 1938. In accordance with Article 27 of the Constitution of 1917, President Lázaro Cárdenas declared that all mineral and oil reserves found within Mexico belong to \"the nation\", i.e., the federal government. This measure caused an international boycott of Mexican products in the following years, especially by the United States, the United Kingdom, and the Netherlands.\n\nThe anniversary, March 18, is now a Mexican civic holiday.\n\nOn August 16, 1935, the Petroleum Workers Union of Mexico (\"Sindicato de Trabajadores Petroleros de la República Mexicana\") was formed and one of the first actions was the writing of a lengthy draft contract transmitted to the petroleum companies demanding a 40-hour working week, a full salary paid in the event of sickness, and the payment of 65 million pesos towards benefits and wages. The foreign oil companies refused to sign the agreement, and counter offered with a payment of 14 million pesos toward wages and benefits.\n\nOn November 3, 1937, the union demanded that the companies sign the collective agreement and on May 17, the union summoned a strike in case their demands were not met. On May 28 the strike became effective throughout the country.\n\nThe petroleum workers' struggle was well regarded by the President and the population despite problems caused by the petroleum shortage. Due to these problems, the union accepted a lift of the strike on June 9, after the president urged them to present their case before the General Arbitration and Conciliation Board (\"Junta General de Conciliación y Arbitraje\"). In July, as instructed by the arbitration board, a commission of financial experts was formed that investigated the petroleum companies' finances, concluding that their profits easily permitted them to cover the demands of the workers. The report stated that just one company (El Aguila) had received annual profits of over 55 million pesos. The arbitration board concluded that the oil companies should pay 26 million pesos for wages and benefits to the workers. \nThe companies, however, insisted the demands would cripple production and bankrupt them, and refused to pay. The president once again intervened to mediate between the parties, and met with oil company representatives at the National Palace on September 2. In this meeting, one of the El Aguila representatives took issue with the description of it being a foreign company, and stated that El Aguila was a Mexican company. In response, Jesus Silva Herzog (present in the meeting) responded with a financial newspaper from London that cited a report from the Royal Dutch Shell of 1928: \"Our Mexican subsidiary, Oil Company El Aguila, has obtained good returns during the last fiscal cycle.\" It was also explained that El Aguila de Mexico would set the price of an oil barrel at 1.96 when sold to The Eagle Shipping company. This price was below the market value of 3.19 USD per barrel. This way profits would be hidden to the Mexican treasury, and taxes were saved.\n\nBut, on December 8, the companies hired other unemployed workers and had not responded to the arbitration board. On December 18, 1937, the board gave a verdict in favor of the union by means of a \"laudo\" (binding judgment in arbitration) which demanded that the companies fulfil the requirements of the petitions and pay 26 million pesos in lost salaries. The petroleum companies initiated a lawsuit on January 2, 1938 before the Mexican Supreme Court to protect their property from the labor union and arbitration board, which denied the request.\n\nConsequently, the foreign companies rebelled against the imposed contract, and the maximum Judicial Authority responded by rendering a decision on March 1, giving the companies until March 7 to pay the 26 million pesos penalty.\n\nIn 1935, all companies in the business of extraction, processing, and exporting of oil in Mexico were foreign companies with foreign capital. These companies attempted to block the creation of labor unions and used legal and illegal tactics to do so. However, the creation of individual unions within each company was made possible, but work conditions differed from one another.\n\nOn December 27, 1935, the Sindicato Único de Trabajadores Petroleros was created, despite the legal opposition in the states of Tamaulipas and Veracruz. On January 29, 1936, this union joined the Comité de Defensa Proletaria (\"Committee of Proletarian Defense\") which would become in February the Confederation of Mexican Workers (CTM). On July 20, the union celebrated its first convention, in which it was proposed a project of general contracts for each oil company and it was decided on a strike to push towards an agreement.\n\nLázaro Cárdenas intervened between the union and the oil companies in order to force an agreement on the contract. The strike was delayed for six months, but the companies never agreed to the contract and on May 28, the strike took place. The entire country was paralyzed for 12 days, with consumers unable to buy gasoline. Cárdenas convinced the union to end the strike until a decision by the companies could be made. However, the companies declared themselves unable to meet the demands because of financial problems. Cárdenas ordered an investigation and on August 3, and the findings were that the Mexican oil industry produced higher returns than the U.S. oil industry.\n\nAfter the publication of the findings, the oil companies threatened to leave Mexico and take all of their capital with them. The government entity in charge of the conflict between these companies and the union, the Junta Federal de Conciliación y Arbitraje (Federal Conciliation and Arbitration Board), was not able to make a decision quickly and the union declared a 24-hour strike in protest on December 8.\n\nOn December 18, the Arbitration Board declared in favor of the union. The oil companies had to pay 26 million pesos of wages lost because of the strike, but they appealed to the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court then rejected the appeal and ordered them to raise salaries and improve working conditions for the union members. The oil companies protested this decision and President Cárdenas mediated a compromise; the union would accept 26 million. Cárdenas offered to end the strike if the oil companies paid the sum. According to witnesses of this meeting, representatives of the oil companies asked the President \"Who can guarantee that the strike will be over\", to which the President replied \"I, the President of the Republic.\" After the businessmen asked with sarcasm \"You?\" President Cárdenas ended the meeting saying \"Sirs, we are finished!\".\n\nAs a result, Cárdenas decided to expropriate the oil industry and create a national oil company.\n\nOn March 18, 1938 President Cárdenas embarked on the expropriation of all oil resources and facilities by the state, nationalizing the U.S. and Anglo-Dutch (Mexican Eagle Petroleum Company) operating companies. Two hours before informing his cabinet of his decision, he made the announcement on the radio to the rest of the country. Five days later, a crowd of 100,000 (according to the press) rallied in support of Cárdenas (see photo).\n\nOn April 12, 1938, a crowd of thousands of women gathered in front of the Palacio de Bellas Artes to make donations to pay the debt to foreign companies. Donations varied from chickens to jewelry, since the women encompassed all social classes.\n\nOn June 7, 1938, President Cárdenas issued a decree creating Petróleos Mexicanos (PEMEX), with exclusive rights over exploration, extraction, refining, and commercialization of oil in Mexico. On June 20, PEMEX started operations.\n\nIn retaliation, the oil companies initiated a public relations campaign against Mexico, urging people to stop buying Mexican goods, and lobbying to embargo US technology to Mexico. Many foreign governments closed their markets to Mexican oil, hoping that PEMEX would drown in its own oil. However, the U.S. government of Franklin Delano Roosevelt had issued the Good Neighbor Policy, aiming to recalibrate U.S.-Latin American relations; the U.S. government did not intervene to aid U.S. oil companies affected by the Mexican expropriation. Mexican finances suffered due to the boycott, the Mexican peso was devalued, and an immediate 20% increase in prices was suffered by the Mexican population. In a trip to NY to negotiate with oil companies, Mexican treasury minister, Suarez, serendipitously met an American intermediate, William Rhodes Davis from Davis Oil Company, who had a refinery in Europe, and asked for a collaboration. Davis mediated between Mexico and Germany to a barter agreement where Mexico would give crude oil to Davis, who then would provide refined oil products to Germany in exchange for machinery to Mexico. By 1940, Mexico had an agreement with the American Sinclair Oil Corporation to sell crude oil to the U.S, and the full-scale war in Europe guaranteed that Mexican oil would have international customers. PEMEX developed into one of the largest oil companies in the world and helped Mexico become the world's seventh largest oil exporter.\n\n, a \"cacique\" from San Luis Potosí and former Secretary of Agriculture, showed the strongest opposition to Cárdenas's measures. Cedillo had in the past supported Cárdenas in a conflict with ex-President Plutarco Elías Calles, but disagreed with his plan of reforms. On May 15 of the same year, the state congress of San Luis Potosí issued a decree where it refused to recognize Cárdenas as President and declared that the \"expropiación petrolera\" did not benefit the economy of Mexico. Cárdenas did not consider this a serious threat and minimized efforts to suppress the rebellion, instead choosing persuasion. The US government did not support the rebellion because it was more concerned that fascist and communist movements from Europe would spread to Mexico.\n\nThe key to the success of the measures taken by Cárdenas was not just to control the opposition, but to keep afloat an industry in the absence of qualified personnel. The government had to depend on the Sindicato de Trabajadores Petroleros de la República Mexicana (STPRM, or the Union of Oil Workers of the Mexican Republic) to resolve disagreements over the management of oil resources, and deal with threats of strikes and sabotage. In spite of these and technical challenges, local workers who replaced the foreign technicians were successful in making the new nationalized oil industry work. Josephus Daniels, U.S. ambassador to Mexico, explained to President Franklin D. Roosevelt and Secretary of State Cordell Hull that Cárdenas' reforms could not be undone, since his position as president and the position of PEMEX were secure.\n\nCritics of the expropriation point out that since Pemex took control of the nation's petroleum, the company has been rife with corruption through every administration since that of Cárdenas, including both the PRI (Partido Revolucionario Institucional) and the PAN (Partido Accion Nacional). In addition, the \"casus belli\" of the expropriation was a wage hike of 26 million pesos. In fact, in the aftermath, not only was the promised wage hike postponed indefinitely, wages were actually cut.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8980282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8980282", "title": "Ministry of Agriculture, Irrigation and Livestock (Afghanistan)", "text": "Ministry of Agriculture, Irrigation and Livestock (Afghanistan)\n\nThe Afghan Minister of Agriculture, Irrigation & Livestock ( / ) is the Government of Afghanistan Cabinet officer responsible for managing Afghanistan's agriculture policy.\n\nAmong other matters, the Ministry oversees the work of the Helmand and Arghandab Valley Authority.\n\n"}
{"id": "20910751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20910751", "title": "Ministry of War of the Russian Empire", "text": "Ministry of War of the Russian Empire\n\nMinistry of War of the Russian Empire, (, \"Military Ministry\") was an administrative body in the Russian Empire from 1802 to 1917.\n\nIt was established in 1802 as the \"Ministry of ground armed forces\" () taking over responsibilities from the College of War during the Government reform of Alexander I. It was renamed to the \"Ministry of War\" in 1815.\n\nAt the end of 19th century Ministry of war had following structure.\n\nThe Ministry was initially accommodated in Count Zakhar Chernyshyov's former palace on Moika River Embankment, which was bought by the State Treasury for the Military Collegium in 1795 (later it was rebuilt and transformed into the Mariinsky Palace). \n\nIn 1824, the mezzanine and the first floor of the Lobanov-Rostovsky Residence (12 Admiralteysky Avenue) were rented for the Ministry of War for 63,000 roubles a year. On 23 June 1828, the entire building was bought by the State Treasury for one million roubles, and in 1829-1830 it was renovated to meet the Ministry's needs. It housed the principal establishments of the Ministry until its dissolution in 1918. The main entrance is guarded by white marble Medici lions.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "62289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=62289", "title": "Monosodium glutamate", "text": "Monosodium glutamate\n\nMonosodium glutamate (MSG, also known as sodium glutamate) is the sodium salt of glutamic acid, one of the most abundant naturally occurring non-essential amino acids. Glutamic acid is found naturally in tomatoes, grapes, cheese, mushrooms and other foods.\n\nMSG is used in the food industry as a flavor enhancer with an umami taste that intensifies the meaty, savory flavor of food, as naturally occurring glutamate does in foods such as stews and meat soups. It was first prepared in 1908 by Japanese biochemist Kikunae Ikeda, who was trying to isolate and duplicate the savory taste of \"kombu\", an edible seaweed used as a base for many Japanese soups. MSG as a flavor enhancer balances, blends, and rounds the perception of other tastes.\n\nThe U.S. Food and Drug Administration has given MSG its generally recognized as safe (GRAS) designation. A popular misconception is that large doses of MSG can cause headaches and other feelings of discomfort, known as \"Chinese restaurant syndrome,\" but double-blind tests fail to find evidence of such a reaction. The European Union classifies it as a food additive permitted in certain foods and subject to quantitative limits. MSG has the HS code 29224220 and the E number E621.\nGlutamic acid was discovered and identified in 1866 by the German chemist Karl Heinrich Ritthausen, who treated wheat gluten (for which it was named) with sulfuric acid. Kikunae Ikeda of Tokyo Imperial University isolated glutamic acid as a taste substance in 1908 from the seaweed \"Laminaria japonica\" (\"kombu\") by aqueous extraction and crystallization, calling its taste \"umami\". Ikeda noticed that \"dashi\", the Japanese broth of \"katsuobushi\" and \"kombu\", had a unique taste not yet scientifically described (not sweet, salty, sour, or bitter). To verify that ionized glutamate was responsible for \"umami\", he studied the taste properties of glutamate salts: calcium, potassium, ammonium, and magnesium glutamate. All these salts elicited \"umami\" and a metallic taste due to the other minerals. Of them, sodium glutamate was the most soluble, most palatable, and easiest to crystallize. Ikeda called his product \"monosodium glutamate\", and submitted a patent to produce MSG; the Suzuki brothers began commercial production of MSG in 1909 as .\n\nIt has been suggested that a fear of MSG may reflect anti-Asian racism, with MSG being seen as an alien arrival in Western cooking, likely to be dangerous. Food critic Jeffrey Steingarten argued that fear of MSG should be seen as a Western-centric mindset, lacking awareness of its common use in Far Eastern cooking without apparent problems: \"If MSG is a problem, why doesn't everyone in China have a headache?\"\n\nPure MSG is reported to not have a pleasant taste until it is combined with a savory aroma. The basic sensory function of MSG is attributed to its ability to enhance savory taste-active compounds when added in the proper concentration. The optimum concentration varies by food; in clear soup, the pleasure score rapidly falls with the addition of more than one gram of MSG per 100 mL.\n\nThe sodium content (in mass percent) of MSG, 12%, is about one-third of that in sodium chloride (39%), due to the greater mass of the glutamate counterion. Although other salts of glutamate have been used in low-salt soups, they are less palatable than MSG.\n\nMSG is safe to consume. A popular belief is that MSG can cause headaches and other feelings of discomfort but double-blind tests have found no good evidence to support this. MSG has been used for more than 100 years to season food, with a number of studies conducted on its safety. Consumption and manufacture of high-salt and high-glutamate foods, which contain both sodium and glutamate, stretch back far longer, with evidence of cheese manufacture as early as 5,500 BCE. International and national bodies governing food additives currently consider MSG safe for human consumption as a flavor enhancer. Under normal conditions, humans can metabolize relatively large quantities of glutamate, which is naturally produced in the gut in the course of protein hydrolysis. The median lethal dose (LD) is between 15 and 18 g/kg body weight in rats and mice, respectively, five times the LD of sodium chloride (3 g/kg in rats). The use of MSG as a food additive and the natural level of glutamic acid in foods are not toxicological concerns in humans.\n\nA 1995 report from the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology (FASEB) for the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) concluded that MSG is safe when \"eaten at customary levels\" and, although a subgroup of otherwise-healthy individuals develop an MSG symptom complex when exposed to 3 g of MSG in the absence of food, MSG as a cause has not been established because the symptom reports are anecdotal.\n\nAccording to the report, no data support the role of glutamate in chronic disease. A controlled, double-blind, multiple-location clinical trial failed to demonstrate a relationship between the MSG symptom complex and actual MSG consumption. No statistical association has been demonstrated, and the few responses were inconsistent. No symptoms were observed when MSG was administered with food.\n\nAdequately controlling for experimental bias includes a double-blind, placebo-controlled experimental design (DBPC) and administration by capsule, because of the unique aftertaste of glutamates. In a study by Tarasoff and Kelly (1993), 71 fasting participants were given 5 g of MSG and then a standard breakfast. One reaction (to the placebo, in a self-identified MSG-sensitive individual) occurred. A study by Geha \"et al.\" (2000) tested the reaction of 130 subjects with a reported sensitivity to MSG. Multiple DBPC trials were performed, with subjects exhibiting at least two symptoms continuing. Two people out of the 130 responded to all four challenges. Because of the low prevalence, the researchers concluded that a response to MSG was not reproducible.\n\nStudies exploring MSG's role in obesity have yielded mixed results.\n\nAlthough several studies have investigated anecdotal links between MSG and asthma, current evidence does not support a causal association. Since glutamates are important neurotransmitters in the human brain, playing a key role in learning and memory, ongoing neurological studies indicate a need for further research.\n\nA hypothetical MSG symptom complex, named \"Chinese restaurant syndrome\", attracted attention in the period after 1968, when Robert Ho Man Kwok reported symptoms he felt after an American-Chinese meal. Kwok suggested possible reasons for his symptoms, including alcohol (from cooking with wine), sodium, and MSG; however, a number of symptoms have become associated with MSG.\n\nFood Standards Australia New Zealand (FSANZ) MSG technical report concludes, \"There is no convincing evidence that MSG is a significant factor in causing systemic reactions resulting in severe illness or mortality. The studies conducted to date on Chinese restaurant syndrome (CRS) have largely failed to demonstrate a causal association with MSG. Symptoms resembling those of CRS may be provoked in a clinical setting in small numbers of individuals by the administration of large doses of MSG without food. However, such effects are neither persistent nor serious and are likely to be attenuated when MSG is consumed with food. In terms of more serious adverse effects such as the triggering of bronchospasm in asthmatic individuals, the evidence does not indicate that MSG is a significant trigger factor.\"\n\nHowever, the FSANZ MSG report says that although no data are available on average MSG consumption in Australia and New Zealand, \"data from the United Kingdom indicates an average intake of 590 mg/day, with extreme users (97.5th percentile consumers) consuming 2330 mg/day\" (Rhodes \"et al.\" 1991). In a highly seasoned restaurant meal, intakes as high as 5000 mg or more may be possible (Yang \"et al.\" 1997). When very large doses of MSG (>5 g MSG in a bolus dose) are ingested, plasma glutamate concentration will significantly increase. However, the concentration typically returns to normal within two hours. In general, foods providing metabolizable carbohydrate significantly attenuate peak plasma glutamate levels at doses up to 150 mg/kg body weight. Two earlier studies—the 1987 Joint FAO/WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives (JECFA) and the 1995 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology (FASEB)—concluded, \"there may be a small number of unstable asthmatics who respond to doses of 1.5–2.5 g of MSG in the absence of food\". The FASEB evaluation concluded, \"sufficient evidence exists to indicate some individuals may experience manifestations of CRS when exposed to a ≥3 g bolus dose of MSG in the absence of food\".\n\nMSG has been produced by three methods: hydrolysis of vegetable proteins with hydrochloric acid to disrupt peptide bonds (1909–1962); direct chemical synthesis with acrylonitrile (1962–1973), and bacterial fermentation (the current method). Wheat gluten was originally used for hydrolysis because it contains more than 30 g of glutamate and glutamine in 100 g of protein. As demand for MSG increased, chemical synthesis and fermentation were studied. The polyacrylic fiber industry began in Japan during the mid-1950s, and acrylonitrile was adopted as a base material to synthesize MSG.\n\nCurrently (2016), most global MSG is produced by bacterial fermentation in a process similar to making vinegar or yogurt. Sodium is added later, for neutralization. During fermentation, \"Corynebacterium\" species, cultured with ammonia and carbohydrates from sugar beets, sugar cane, tapioca or molasses, excrete amino acids into a culture broth from which L-glutamate is isolated. The Kyowa Hakko Kogyo Company developed industrial fermentation to produce L-glutamate.\n\nThe conversion yield and production rate (from sugars to glutamate) continues to improve in the industrial production of MSG, keeping up with demand. The product, after filtration, concentration, acidification, and crystallization, is glutamate, sodium, and water.\n\nThe compound is usually available as the monohydrate, a white, odorless, crystalline powder. The solid contains separate sodium cations and glutamate anions in zwitterionic form, OOC-CH()-()-COO. In solution it dissociates into glutamate and sodium ions.\n\nMSG is freely soluble in water, but it is not hygroscopic and is insoluble in common organic solvents (such as ether). It is generally stable under food-processing conditions. MSG does not break down during cooking and, like other amino acids, will exhibit a Maillard reaction (browning) in the presence of sugars at very high temperatures.\n\nMSG is one of several forms of glutamic acid found in foods, in large part because glutamic acid (an amino acid) is pervasive in nature. Glutamic acid and its salts may be present in a variety of other additives, including hydrolyzed vegetable protein, autolyzed yeast, hydrolyzed yeast, yeast extract, soy extracts, and protein isolate, which must be specifically labeled. Since 1998, MSG cannot be included in the term \"spices and flavorings\". The ribonucleotide food additives disodium inosinate and disodium guanylate are usually used with monosodium glutamate-containing ingredients. However, the term \"natural flavor\" is used by the food industry for glutamic acid (chemically similar to MSG, lacking only the sodium ion). The Food and Drug Administration does not require disclosure of components and amounts of \"natural flavor.\"\n\nThe FDA considers labels such as \"no MSG\" or \"no added MSG\" misleading if the food has ingredients which are sources of free glutamate, such as hydrolyzed protein. In 1993, it proposed adding \"contains glutamate\" to the common names of certain hydrolyzed proteins with substantial amounts of glutamate.\n\nStandard 1.2.4 of the Australia and New Zealand Food Standards Code requires MSG to be labeled in packaged foods. The label must have the food-additive class name (e.g. \"flavour enhancer\"), followed by the name of the additive (\"MSG\") or its International Numbering System (INS) number, 621.\n\nPunjab Food Authority banned MSG from being used in food products in January 2018.\n\nThe following are alternative names for MSG:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14806022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14806022", "title": "Moravané", "text": "Moravané\n\nMoravané () is a small non-parliamentary political party in Moravia in the Czech Republic.\n\nIt arose in 2005 through a merger of two older local parties: \"Hnutí samosprávné Moravy a Slezska – Moravské národní sjednocení\" (\"The Movement of Autonomous Moravia and Silesia - Moravian National Union\") and \"Moravská demokratická strana\" (\"the Moravian Democratic Party\"). Pavel Dohnal became the party chairman. The party first participated in the nationwide parliamentary election in June 2006 and won 0.23% of the national popular vote, falling below the minimum threshold to gain any seats. \"Moravané\" is a member party of the European Free Alliance. A youth wing of the party (\"Mladí Moravané\" - Young Moravians) also operates.\n\nIn March 2009, party leadership passed to Jiří Novotný.\n\nThe main goal of the party is as follows: \"\"On the principle of the right of self-determination of the Moravian nation, \"Moravané\" advocates for the independence of Moravia via restoration of the Moravian legislative parliament within the territorial scope of the Moravian ecclesiastical province.\"\" The party strongly disfavours state centralism, and expresses anti-Czech (Bohemian) sentiment; \"Prague\" (both the city and Czech government) is blamed for \"suppressing Moravian culture, traditions and language\" and for \"pauperising of Moravia\".\n\nAccording to \"Moravané\", the future of the Europe lies in dismantling the modern European nation-states and establishing new states on historical territorial boundaries. Moreover, the party supports the codification and recognition of the Moravian language, traditionally considered a dialect of Czech by linguists and the public.\n\nThe party organises open air actions, meetings and sit-ins, \"candle marches\" (founded at 2005) in Brno and Olomouc, \"pilgrimages to the Morava river spring\", demonstrations against \"Bohemiazation\" etc.\n\nDuring a 'candle march' on 27 February 2010, forty party members decorated with numerous Moravian flags marched through the historical part of Brno to the pre-war Moravian Diet building, which \"Moravané\" claims to be occupied by a \"foreign state\", and the Moravian Square. The protest was poorly received by passers-by, with one on-looker noting \"at this rate, the [Moravian people] will be looked on as fools\". The march was not registered with the Police and was later halted. On 25 July 2010, \"Moravané\" participated in a demonstration in Moravský Krumlov to attempt to halt a collection of Alfons Mucha paintings named \"The Slav Epic\" from being returned to Prague.\n\n"}
{"id": "570703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=570703", "title": "Natural rate of unemployment", "text": "Natural rate of unemployment\n\nThe natural rate of unemployment is the name that was given to a key concept in the study of economic activity. Milton Friedman and Edmund Phelps, tackling this 'human' problem in the 1960s, both received the Nobel Prize in economics for their work, and the development of the concept is cited as a main motivation behind the prize. A simplistic summary of the concept is: 'The natural rate of unemployment, when an economy is in a steady state of \"full employment\", is the proportion of the workforce who are unemployed'. Put another way, this concept clarifies that the economic term \"full employment\" does not mean \"zero unemployment\".\nIt represents the hypothetical unemployment rate consistent with aggregate production being at the \"long-run\" level. This level is consistent with aggregate production in the absence of various temporary frictions such as incomplete price adjustment in labor and goods markets. The natural rate of unemployment therefore corresponds to the unemployment rate prevailing under a classical view of determination of activity. It is mainly determined by the economy's supply side, and hence production possibilities and economic institutions. If these institutional features involve permanent mismatches in the labor market or real wage rigidities, the natural rate of unemployment may feature involuntary unemployment. The natural rate of unemployment is a combination of frictional and structural unemployment that persists in an efficient, expanding economy when labor and resource markets are in equilibrium.\n\nOccurrence of disturbances (e.g., cyclical shifts in investment sentiments) will cause actual unemployment to continuously deviate from the natural rate, and be partly determined by aggregate demand factors as under a Keynesian view of output determination. The policy implication is that the natural rate of unemployment cannot permanently be reduced by demand management policies (including monetary policy), but that such policies can play a role in stabilizing variations in actual unemployment.\nReductions in the natural rate of unemployment must, according to the concept, be achieved through structural policies directed towards an economy's supply side. According to multiple surveys, two-thirds to three-quarters of economists generally agree with the statement, \"There is a natural rate of unemployment to which the economy tends in the long run.\"\n\nWhile Friedrich von Hayek had argued attempts to create full employment might trigger uncontrollable inflation, and Hume noted that increases to the money supply would raise the price of labour as early as 1752, the classic statement regarding the \"natural rate\" appeared in Milton Friedman's 1968 Presidential Address to the American Economic Association:\n\nHowever, this remained a vision – Friedman never wrote down a model with all of these properties. When he illustrated the idea of the Natural Rate he simply used the standard text-book labor market demand and supply model that was essentially the same as Don Patinkin's model of full employment. In this there is a competitive labor market with both labor supply and demand depend on the real wage and the natural rate is simply the competitive equilibrium where demand equals supply. Implicit in his vision is the notion that the natural rate is \"Unique\": there is only one level of output and employment that is consistent with equilibrium.\n\nMilton Friedman argued that a natural rate of inflation followed from the Phillips curve. This showed wages tend to rise when unemployment is low. Friedman argued that inflation was the same as wage rises, and built his argument upon a widely believed idea, that a stable negative relation between inflation and unemployment existed. This belief had the policy implication that unemployment could be permanently reduced by expansive demand policy and thus higher inflation.\n\nFriedman and Phelps opposed this idea on theoretical grounds, as they noted that if unemployment were to be permanently lower, some real variable in the economy, like the real wage, would have changed permanently. That this should be the case because inflation was higher appeared to rely on systematic irrationality in the labor market. As Friedman remarked, wage inflation would eventually catch up and leave the real wage, and unemployment, unchanged. Hence, lower unemployment could only be attained as long as wage inflation and inflation expectations lagged behind actual inflation. This was seen to be only a temporary outcome. Eventually, unemployment would return to the rate determined by real factors independent of the inflation rate. According to Friedman and Phelps, the Phillips curve was therefore vertical in the long run, and expansive demand policies would only be a cause of inflation, not a cause of permanently lower unemployment.\n\nMilton Friedman emphasized expectations errors as the main cause of deviation in unemployment from the natural rate. For Friedman, the notion that there was a unique Natural rate was equivalent to his assertion that there is only one level of unemployment at which inflation can be fully anticipated (when actual and expected inflation are the same). Edmund Phelps focused more in detail on the labor market structures and frictions that would cause aggregate demand changes to feed into inflation, and for sluggish expectations, into the determination of the unemployment rate. Also, his theories gave insights into the causes of a too high natural rate of unemployment (i.e., why unemployment could be structural or classical).\n\nThe major criticism of a \"natural rate\" is that there is no credible evidence for it, as Milton Friedman himself said we \"cannot know what the “natural” rate is\". The natural rate hypothesis makes the fundamental assumption that there exists a unique equilibrium level of unemployment. Importantly, Milton Friedman himself never wrote down an explicit model of the natural rate (in his Nobel Lecture, he just uses the simple labor supply and demand model). Others have argued that there might be multiple equilibria: for example due to search externalities as in the Diamond coconut model or that there might exist a \"natural range\" of unemployment levels rather than a unique equilibrium.\n\nAccording to Roger Farmer of UCLA, the assumption that, after a shock, the unemployment rate returns to its so called “natural rate' does not hold in the data.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36239386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36239386", "title": "Operation Ngatipedzenavo", "text": "Operation Ngatipedzenavo\n\nOperation Ngatipedzenavo (), was a large scale Zimbabwean government assassination plot intended to eliminate the MDC leadership and punish those who supposedly voted for the Movement for Democratic Change in the 2008 presidential election rather than for ZANU-PF. \n\nHowever, the campaign met with harsh condemnation from Zimbabwean opposition parties, church groups, non-governmental organizations, and the wider international community. Also people were beaten thoroughly, forced to sit on hot plate stoves, cut fingers, cut arms and skinned alive that intimidated individuals.\n\nThere has been much documentation of those who have carried out the assaults, beatings and murders on Zimbabwean citizens. These include Modesta Mushambi, Kenneth Dzemba, Cephas Chikomo, Itai Kandemire. \n\n"}
{"id": "15419823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15419823", "title": "Permanent campaign", "text": "Permanent campaign\n\nPermanent campaign is a political science theory and phrase.\nThe concept of a permanent campaign also describes the focus which recent presidents have given to electoral concerns during their tenures in office, with the distinction between the time they have spent governing and the time they have spent campaigning having become blurred. Political observers who bolster the opinion that a permanent campaign has had a significant impact on recent presidencies argue that decisions by presidents have increasingly been made with considerations to their impact on voter approval. Political observers consider the rise in presidential fundraising as a symptom of the permanent campaign. \n\nThe disproportionately large amounts of time that presidents have spent visiting key electoral states (and comparatively small amount of they have spent visiting states that pose little electoral importance to them) has been pointed to as evidence of ulterior electoral motives influencing presidential governance, demonstrating the blurred lines between campaigning and governance in the White House.\n\nPatrick Caddell conceived the \"permanent campaign\" as a theory of political science. Caddell was then a young pollster for U.S. President Jimmy Carter, wrote a memo on December 10, 1976 entitled \"Initial Working Paper on Political Strategy\".\n\n\"Essentially,\" Caddell wrote, \"it is my thesis governing with public approval requires a continuing political campaign.\" \n\nThe phrase \"the permanent campaign,\" its concept and history, were first defined by journalist and later presidential senior adviser Sidney Blumenthal in his 1980 book, \"The Permanent Campaign\". In it, he explained how the changes in American politics from old-style patronage and party organization to that based on the modern technology of computer driven polling and media created a fundamentally new system. \nHe explained that political consultants had replaced the party bosses and brought with them a new model by which campaigning became the forms of governing.\n\nBlumenthal's work resolved the problem in political science of \"critical realignment.\" According to Walter Dean Burnham, the leading political scientist of realignment theory, \n\nStrategies of this nature have been in active development and use since Lyndon Johnson, where priority is given to short term tactical gain over long term vision. The frenzied, headline grabbing atmosphere of presidential campaigns is carried over into the office itself, thus creating a permanent campaign that limits the ability of policies to deviate from the perceived will of the people (hence, intensive polling). \n\nThe permanent campaign is frequently associated with Bill Clinton, stretching from his long political career, first as Governor of Arkansas, then President of the United States, and his continued prominence on the national stage as a former President and surrogate for his wife Hillary Clinton. \n\nA famous example that illustrates just how strongly this mind-set has come to influence politics was during the Clinton Administration when pollster Dick Morris asked voters to help decide where Bill Clinton would go on vacation. In the words of columnist Joe Klein, \"The pressure to 'win' the daily news cycle—to control the news—has overwhelmed the more reflective, statesmanlike aspects of the office.\" \n\nRobert Reich has suggested that Bill Clinton is in a state of \"permanent election\", due to the impeachment proceedings during his presidency and his continuing support in the campaigns of his wife Hillary Clinton.\n\nScott McClellan, former White House Press Secretary for U.S. President George W. Bush, wrote in his 2008 memoir \"What Happened: Inside the Bush White House and Washington's Culture of Deception\" that the Bush White House suffered from a \"permanent campaign\" mentality, and that policy decisions were inextricably interwoven with politics.\n\nBush's presidency offers an example of how presidential travel can disproportionately target states of electoral importance. George W. Bush embarked on 416 domestic trips during his first three years in office. This was 114 more than his predecessor had in his first three years. In his first year, 36% of Bush's domestic trips were to the 16 states that were considered swing states after having been decided the closest margins during the 2000 election. In his second year, 45% of his domestic travel was to these states, and his third year 39% of his domestic travel was to these states. \n\n"}
{"id": "4707857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4707857", "title": "Private intelligence agency", "text": "Private intelligence agency\n\nA private intelligence agency (PIA) is a private sector (non-governmental) or quasi-non-government organization devoted to the collection, analysis, and exploitation of information, most commonly through the evaluation of public sources (OSINT or Open Source INTelligence) and cooperation with other institutions. Some private agencies make their services available to governments as well as individual consumers; however, most of these agencies sell their services to large corporations with an interest or investment in the category (e.g. crime, disease, corruption, etc.) or the region (e.g. Middle East, Vietnam, Prague, etc.). \n\nThe private intelligence industry has boomed due to shifts in how the U.S. government is conducting espionage in the War on Terror. Some US$56 billion or 70% of the US$80 billion national intelligence budget of the United States was in 2013 earmarked for the private sector according to the New York Times' Tim Shorrock. Functions previously performed by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), National Security Agency (NSA), and other intelligence agencies are now outsourced to private intelligence corporations.\n\nPrivate intelligence agencies have also been seen in fiction. \"Rubicon\", a TV series from AMC, was devoted to the intelligence consultancy American Policy Institute (API). In the \"Kingsman\" franchise, we see the inner workings of Kingsman, a private intelligence service of which main character Eggsy is a member.\n\n"}
{"id": "960697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=960697", "title": "Ross McKitrick", "text": "Ross McKitrick\n\nRoss McKitrick (born 1965) is a Canadian economist specializing in environmental economics and policy analysis. He is a professor of economics at the University of Guelph, and a senior fellow of the Fraser Institute.\n\nMcKitrick has authored works about environmental economics and climate change issues, including co-authoring the book \"Taken By Storm: The Troubled Science, Policy and Politics of Global Warming\", published in 2002. He is the author of \"Economic Analysis of Environmental Policy\" published by the University of Toronto Press. His background in applied statistics has also led him to collaborative work across a wide range of topics in the physical sciences including paleoclimate reconstruction, malaria transmission, surface temperature measurement and climate model evaluation. Professor McKitrick has made many invited academic presentations around the world, and has testified before the US Congress and committees of the Canadian House of Commons and Senate.\n\nMcKitrick gained his doctorate in economics in 1996 from the University of British Columbia, and in the same year was appointed Assistant Professor in the Department of Economics at the University of Guelph, Ontario. In 2001 he received an Associate Professorship and has been a full Professor since December 2008. He has also been a Senior Fellow of the Fraser Institute since 2002. He is a member of the academic advisory board of the Global Warming Policy Foundation.\n\nMcKitrick has authored works about environmental economics and climate change issues. The book \"Taken By Storm\", co-authored with Christopher Essex in 2002, was a runner-up for the Donner Prize. The book \"Economic Analysis of Environmental Policy\" was published by University of Toronto Press in 2011. McKitrick was one of the most prominent figures to help promote the Hockey stick graph controversy.\n\nMcKitrick has said, \"It has become a commonplace to refer to the 'environmental crisis.' But I find the crisis rather hard to locate. On specific issues there is a continuum, ranging from non-issues, situations of concern, problems, and onward up to actual crises. Not everything is a crisis, just as not everything is a non-issue. Things mostly fall in between\"\n\nMcKitrick was a participant of the International Workshop on Econometric Applications in Climatology in June 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58049305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58049305", "title": "SGT STAR", "text": "SGT STAR\n\nSGT STAR, also known as Sgt. Star or Sergeant Star, is a chatbot operated by the United States Army to answer questions about recruitment.\n\nAfter the September 11 attacks, traffic increased significantly to chatrooms on the U.S. Army's website, goarmy.com, increasing costs of staffing the live chatrooms. As a cost-cutting measure, the SGT STAR project was initiated as a partnership between the United States Army Accessions Command and Next IT, a Spokane, Washington-based company specializing in \"intelligent virtual assistants,\" using software called ActiveAgent. Testing began in 2003, and SGT STAR launched to the public in 2006. \"STAR\" is an acronym for \"strong, trained and ready.\"\n\nSGT STAR was launched in a chat interface on goarmy.com, but has since been developed as a mobile application, as well as a life-size animated projection that has appeared live at public events. SGT STAR can also interact with users on Facebook.\n\nIn 2013, the Electronic Frontier Foundation filed a Freedom of Information Act request to learn more about SGT STAR, including input and output patterns (questions and answers), usage statistics, contracts, and privacy policies. They received these records in April 2014, after coverage from various media outlets and a tongue-in-cheek campaign to \"Free Sgt. Star.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "25145227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25145227", "title": "Sand dam", "text": "Sand dam\n\nSand dams are a simple, low-cost and low-maintenance, replicable rainwater harvesting technology. They provide a clean, local water supply for domestic and farming use and are suited to semi-arid areas of the world.\n\nA sand dam is a reinforced concrete wall (or a similarly robust and impermeable weir) built 1–5 metres high across a seasonal sand river.\n\nWhen it rains the dam captures soil laden water behind it – the sand in the water sinks to the bottom, whilst the silt remains suspended in the water. \n\nResearch on Kenyan dams shows that only 1 to 3% of rainwater is retained behind any individual dam, the remainder continues its natural flow towards the ocean. Eventually the dams fill with sand - sometimes after only one rainfall or over 1 – 3 seasons. 25 to 40% of the volume of the sand held is actually water. \n\nA mature sand dam can store millions of litres of water – refilling after each rainfall providing a year round supply of clean water to over 1,000 people.\n\nThe highest concentration of sand dams with the strongest track record is found in Kenya although examples are found throughout world’s semi-arid regions from Angola to Zimbabwe. Further examples are recorded in Japan, India, Thailand, SW USA and Brazil.\n\nSand dams can be built in the upper and middle courses of seasonal sandy river valleys (also known as wadis). Typically, sand dams are built in the transition zone between hills and plains where the gradient of the river bed is between 0.2 - 4%, but in extreme cases sand storage dams have been constructed on slopes of 10-16% (Nilsson 1988). Dams must be built on bed rock or highly compacted sub-soil. For the obvious reason of economy on materials and labour, the stream must be reasonably narrow with well defined and stable river banks and the bedrock or impermeable subsoil within a few metres of the stream bed. Rocky banks and gorges are the most apt features. Further advice on the siting, design and construction of sand dams is available from the organisations and in the manuals listed below\n\nThere are two simple ways:\n\n\n\nOn a global scale climate change and effects there of have exerted tremendous pressure on the biophysical, economic, political and social systems that govern the sustenance of a majority of African populations. (Zierrogel et al, 2009)\n\n“Climate Change is expected to intensify existing problems and create new combinations of risks, particularly in Africa where there is widespread poverty and dependence on the natural environment.” (Zierrogel et al. 2009)\n\nKitui is a region in Eastern Kenya, East Africa, where the sand dam project has been relatively more successful in comparison to other regions that adopted the same or similar systems. The Kitui region has approximately five hundred functional sand dams that help with water storage for subsistence and commercial purposes for example irrigation, domestic use and for feeding and sustaining livestock. (Maurits, 2008)\n\nEffectiveness of Sand Dams in Kitui\n\nWith the setup of over 500 dams in the region there is no question to how these sand dams are a major community requirement. The image below shows an overview of the multiple uses of sand dams in the Kitui region. (Lasagne, 2008)\n\nImage 2.0: Table showing Sand Dams use in Kitui (Lasagne, 2008)\n\nHuman welfare:- these dams provide water security during the dry season and numerous rivers an wells dry up due to the harsh conditions of the region. (Lasagne, 2008)\n\nQuality of Nature:- The dams provide water to the ecosystem by feeding the water table hence trees and flora are able to thrive in the surrounding areas. (Lasagne, 2008)\n\nFood Capacity:- Due to access to water reserves numerous individuals engage in subsistence and semi-commercial farming which creates a source of income and livelihood for the Kitui People. (Lasagne, 2008)\n\nIndustrial Use:- On a larger Sale these dams provide water for industrial capacity as individuals are able to engage on economic activities such as Charcoal production, Basket making and brick laying which creates a semi-stable source of income for the locals. (Lasagne, 2008)\n\nHindrances to the sand dam project\n\nThere are numerous obstacles to the sand dam projects but the major ones that stand out are irregularity of the rainy seasons, slow funding, lack of communal platforms to run the projects and maintain them. (Lasagne, 2008)\n\nConclusion\n\n“The average income of farmers using sand dams rose with 9000 KSh. (USD 120), while less than 3% of total runoff is used. It is estimated that in 10 years time, more than 100,000 people have better access to water through low cost measure at an investment of about 35 USD per capita.” (Lasagne, 2008) If these projects had more government, Non-governmental participation and an increased community involvement, Kitui could be a world renown model for the ability of rural communities to combat drought , famine and other effects of climate change.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "947625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=947625", "title": "Schießbefehl", "text": "Schießbefehl\n\nThe German term Schießbefehl (\"order to fire\") was the common term to refer to a standing order that instructed East German border guards stationed along the inner German border to use all means, including lethal force, to prevent unauthorised crossings of the border from East Germany in the direction of West Germany. \n\nWhile many national borders throughout history have been militarised for the purpose of stopping would-be migrants \"entering\", the significance of the \"Schießbefehl\" was that East Germany's own citizens were thereby prevented from \"leaving\" their country, in violation of Article 13 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. That any citizen of communist East Germany would voluntarily defect to the capitalist West was a source of embarrassment to successive East German governments, and preventing such defections was a longstanding political objective. Over the 28 years when the Berlin Wall was in place, the number of East Germans shot dead by their own border guards was in the hundreds. After the reunification of Germany, the Berlin District Court indicted East German Chancellor Erich Honecker on charges of mass murder stemming from the \"Schießbefehl\", but his failing health along with legal disputes over jurisdiction caused his trial to be abandoned.\n\nThe GDR border troops (Grenztruppen der DDR), who were not formally integrated into the regular armed forces (the Nationale Volksarmee), typically carried Kalashnikov assault rifles or SKS semiautomatic carbines, and were instructed to follow certain rules of engagement when encountering persons moving illegally within the border strip:\n\n\nThe border troops were told to avoid shooting in the direction of the territory of West Berlin and West Germany.\n\nAfter stopping a potential escape attempt, the shooter would be rewarded and granted a special leave. All occurrences at border outposts were kept secret. Often the soldier would be transferred to another military unit and ordered to keep silent. By contrast, when a fugitive was successful and crossed the border into West Germany, disciplinary measures taken against those border guards who had failed to prevent this \"Grenzverletzung und Republikflucht\" (border violation and desertion from the Republic), which often included prison terms in the infamous military prison at Schwedt. Many soldiers tried to let fugitives escape while deflecting such accusations by deliberately shooting off-target. \n\nEach attempted or successful escape was followed by a formal investigation by the military prosecution authority and the \"Ministerium für Staatssicherheit\" (MfS, or \"Ministry for State Security\", better known as the \"Stasi\"). When would-be escapees were killed, strict regulations were imposed on the family regarding the funeral; for instance, no obituaries were to be printed in the local newspapers. \n\nEast German law only allowed crossing the border at so called \"Grenzübergangsstellen\" (\"checkpoints\"), such as the famous Checkpoint Charlie. Checkpoint Charlie was special, since this was one of the few border crossing points in Berlin where foreigners could enter East Berlin. Elsewhere, warning signs were posted telling people not to enter the border zone. Any violation was considered a criminal act. However, these are only the formal aspects of the law. After construction of the Berlin Wall in 1961, authorized travel by East Germans into West Germany and West Berlin was very limited; many young people were motivated to attempt a desperate flight over the inner German border. Overall, a total of about 260 people were killed attempting to cross at the Berlin Wall, at the main East-West border, or via the Baltic Sea (though the exact number of fatalities is difficult to estimate; see \"Inner German border deaths\"). In Berlin alone, 190 people were killed in the course of 28 years. An unknown number were heavily wounded and later arrested. The last victim of the Berlin Wall was Chris Gueffroy. On 6 February 1989, \"Schießbefehl\" was formally abolished.\n\nThe victims of this system also include border police soldiers who were shot by fugitives.\n\nTo avoid negative press, the \"Schießbefehl\" was suspended for public holidays or state visits. Border occurrences were recorded by the \"Bundesgrenzschutz\" (\"BGS\" or \"Federal Border Guard\", the West German border guards), the West Berlin police, and by the military police of the Allied Forces. Files were collected in the central registration office at Salzgitter.\n\nAfter German reunification, the \"Todesschützen\" (\"death shooters\": soldiers who allegedly killed those attempting to escape East Germany) were brought to trial in the federal courts in what were known as the \"Mauerschützen-Prozesse\" (Berlin Wall shooters trials). Also, high-ranking officers of the border police and of the \"Nationale Verteidigungsrat\" (National Defense Council of the GDR) were charged in court. The verdicts generally agreed that even the common soldier should have and must have recognised that the GDR border laws were so fundamentally in conflict with the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which the GDR had signed and ratified, that they were not law at all but formalized injustice, and thus the soldiers ought to have disobeyed their commanding officers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8551108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8551108", "title": "Social union", "text": "Social union\n\nSocial union is the integration of social policy among several nations or states.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34316004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34316004", "title": "South African Party (Republic of South Africa)", "text": "South African Party (Republic of South Africa)\n\nThe South African Party was a small political party in South Africa from 1977 to 1980.\n\nIt was formed by six self-described centrists MPs who had been expelled from the United Party on 19 January 1977 for refusing to accept the party's decision to accept the Marais plan to create a new united opposition party, which became the New Republic Party. \n\nThe six constituted themselves as the Independent United Party. The party renamed itself the South African Party (SAP) and elected MP Myburgh Streicher as its leader at its founding conference held in Pretoria on 27 and 28 May 1977. The new party committed itself to a federal or confederal solution to the country's political future and to the maintenance of separate group identities under white leadership with the rejection of power-sharing at every level.\n\nThe party contested the 1977 general election and won three seats in the House of Assembly, however, Streicher was defeated in his Cape Town constituency of Wynberg. \n\nJohn Wiley became the party's new leader following the election. In parliament, the SAP supported the government during the 1979 Muldergate Scandal. \n\nOn 13 June 1980, SAP leader John Wiley announced that his party was disbanding and that its three MPs were joining the ruling National Party. Wiley served as Minister of Environmental Affairs and Tourism in P.W. Botha's government, and was the only cabinet minister of English descent, until his death in 1987 of a gunshot wound to the head. Wiley's death remains an unsolved case, although suicide had not been ruled out. His son, Mark Wiley, is a Democratic Alliance legislator in Western Cape province. Streicher was returned to the House of Assembly in 1981 as a National Party MP. He served from 1986 to 1989 as deputy minister of transportation and from 1994 to 1997 chairman of the National Party caucus in parliament.\n"}
{"id": "3318217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3318217", "title": "South African Students' Organisation", "text": "South African Students' Organisation\n\nThe South African Students' Organisation (SASO) was a body of South African students who resisted apartheid through political action. The organisation was formed in 1968, spearheaded by Steve Biko, and played a major role in the Black Consciousness Movement.\n\nUp until SASO's formation, the National Union of South African Students (NUSAS) considered multi-racialism to be the solution to racism and apartheid. The SASO differed from this viewpoint, advocating a black identity separate from any white or multi-racial identity, and succeeded in attracting large numbers of black, coloured, and Indian youths.\n\nIn 1974, nine leaders from SASO were arrested and tried for conspiring to overthrow the state by unconstitutional means. The so-called \"SASO Nine\" were Saths Cooper, Strini Moodley, Aubrey Mokoape, Mosiuoa Lekota, Nkwenkwe Nkomo, Zithulele Cindi, Muntu Myeza, Pandelani Nefolovhodwe and Kaborone Sedibe. After a 17-month trial, the nine were convicted and sentenced to between five and 10 years on Robben Island.\n\nOn 19 October 1977, the organisation was banned, and any association with it became illegal. No efforts were made for this group to be turned into an underground movement, however it did inspire future groups such as AZAPO and SANSCO.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "635340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=635340", "title": "Strategic Hamlet Program", "text": "Strategic Hamlet Program\n\nThe Strategic Hamlet Program ( SHP; ) was a plan by the governments of South Vietnam and the United States during the Vietnam War to combat the communist insurgency by pacifying the countryside and reducing the influence of the communists among the rural population.\n\nIn 1962, the government of South Vietnam, with advice and financing from the United States, began the implementation of the Strategic Hamlet Program. The strategy was to isolate the rural population from contact with and influence by the National Liberation Front (NLF), more commonly known as the Viet Cong. The Strategic Hamlet Program, along with its predecessor, the Rural Community Development Program, played an important role in shaping of events in South Vietnam during the late 1950s and early 1960s. Both of these programs attempted to create new communities of \"protected hamlets.\" The rural peasants would be provided protection, economic support, and aid by the government, thereby strengthening ties with the South Vietnamese government (GVN). It was hoped this would lead to increased loyalty by the peasantry towards the government.\n\nThe Strategic Hamlet Program was a failure, alienating more rural Vietnamese than it helped and contributing to the growth in influence of the Viet Cong. After President Ngo Dinh Diem was overthrown in a coup in November 1963, the program was cancelled. Peasants moved back into their old homes or sought refuge from the war in the cities. The failure of the Strategic Hamlet and other counterinsurgency and pacification programs were causes that led the United States to decide to intervene in South Vietnam with air strikes and ground troops.\n\nIn 1952, during the First Indochina War ( 19 December 1946 — 1 August 1954 ) French commander François de Linares, in Tonkin began the construction of \"protected villages,\" which the French later named agrovilles. By constructing quasi-urban amenities, the French designed the agrovilles to attract peasants away from their villages. This policy was known as \"pacification by prosperity.\" In addition to offering social and economic benefits, the French also encouraged villagers to develop their own militias, which the French trained and armed. \"Pacification by Prosperity\" had some success, but it was never decisive, because the settlers felt insecure, a feeling which the numerous French guard posts along the perimeter could do little to dispel so long as the Viet Minh operated at night, anonymously, and intimidated or gained the support of village authorities.\n\nBetween 1952 and 1954, French officials transplanted approximately 3 million Vietnamese into \"agrovilles\", but the project was costly. To help offset the cost, the French relied partially on American financial support, which was \"one of the earliest objects of American aid to France after the outbreak of the Korean War.\" According to a private Vietnamese source, the U.S. spent about \"200,000 dollars on the 'show' \"agroville\" at Dong Quan.\" After visiting the villages of Khoi Loc in Quang Yen Province and Dong Quan in Ha Dong Province, noted Vietnam War correspondent Bernard Fall stated that, \"the French strategic hamlets resembled British [Malayan] prototypes line for line.\" However, in contrast to the British, the French were reluctant to grant Vietnam its independence, or allow the Vietnamese a voice in government affairs; therefore, the agroville program had little effect.\n\nThe First Indochina War terminated and the Geneva Conference (1954) partitioned Vietnam into communist (north) and non-communist (south) parts and the terms North Vietnam and South Vietnam became the common usage.\n\nBeginning in 1954, Viet Minh sympathizers in the South were subject to escalating suppression by the Diem government, but by December 1960 the National Liberation Front of Southern Vietnam had been formed and soon rapidly achieved de facto control over large sections of the South Vietnamese countryside. At the time, it is believed that there were approximately 10,000 Communist insurgents throughout South Vietnam.\n\nIn February 1959, recognizing the danger that the guerrillas posed if they had the support of the peasants, President Diem and his brother, Ngo Dinh Nhu, made a first attempt at resettlement. A plan was put forth to develop \"centers of agglomeration\". Through force and/or incentives, peasants in rural communities were separated and relocated. The primary goal of the centers was to concentrate the villagers, so they were not able to provide aid, comfort, and information to the Viet Cong.\n\nThe Government of Vietnam (GVN) developed two types of centers of agglomeration. \n\nThe second type of relocation center, qui ap, relocated into new villages those families that supported the South Vietnamese government but lived outside the realm of government protection and were susceptible to Viet Cong attacks. \nBy 1960, there were twenty-three of these centers, each consisting of many thousands of people.\n\nThis mass resettlement created a strong backlash from peasants and forced the central government to rethink its strategy. A report put out by the Caravelle group, consisting of eighteen signers, leaders of the Cao Dai and Hoa Hao sects, the Dai Viet, and dissenting Catholic groups described the situation as follows:\n\nTens of thousands of people are being mobilized… to take up a life in collectivity, to construct beautiful but useless agrovilles which tire the people, lose their affection, increase their resentment and most of all give an additional terrain for propaganda to the enemy.\n\nIn late 1961, President Kennedy sent Roger Hilsman, then director of the State Department's Bureau of Intelligence and Research, to assess the situation in Vietnam. There Hilsman met Sir Robert Thompson, head of the British Advisory Mission to South Vietnam (BRIAM). Thompson was a veteran of the Malayan counter-insurgency effort and a counter-insurgency advisor to the Diem government. Thompson shared his revised system of resettlement and population security, a system he had proposed to Diem that would eventually become the Strategic Hamlet Program. Thompson's proposal, adopted by Diem, advocated a priority on winning control of the South Vietnamese rural population rather than killing insurgents. The police and local security forces would play an important role coupled with anti-insurgent sweeps by the South Vietnamese army (ARVN).\n\nAfter his meetings with Thompson, on 2 February 1962 Hilsman described his concepts of a Strategic Hamlet Program in a policy document entitled \"A Strategic Concept for South Vietnam\", which President Kennedy read and endorsed. Hilsman proposed heavily fortified strategic hamlets. \"Each strategic village will be protected by a ditch and a fence of barbed wire. It will include one or more observation towers...the area immediately around the village will be cleared for fields of fire and the area approaching the clearing, including the ditch, will be strewn with booby-traps...and other personal obstacles.\n\nHilsman proposed that each strategic hamlet be protected by a self-defense group of 75 to 100 armed men. The self-defense group would, in addition to defending the hamlet, be responsible for \"enforcing curfews, checking identity cards, and ferreting out hard-core Communists.\" The objective was to separate, physically and politically, the Viet Cong guerrillas and supporters from the rural population.\n\nThe first step in the establishment of a strategic hamlet would be a census carried out by the South Vietnamese government. Next, villagers would be required to build fortifications and the members of the self-defense force identified and trained. The villagers would be registered and be given identity cards and their movements would be monitored. Outside the fortifications would be a free fire zone.\n\nThe South Vietnamese government on its part would provide assistance to the strategic hamlet and build an \"essential socio-political base\" that would break old habits and orient the residents toward identification with the country of South Vietnam.\n\nPresident Diem in an April 1962 speech outlined his hopes for the Program:\n... strategic hamlets represented the basic elements in the war undertaken by our people against our three enemies: communism, discord, and underdevelopment. In this concept they also represent foundation of the Vietnamese society where values are reassessed according to the personalist revolution where social, cultural, and economic reform will improve the living conditions of the large working class down to the remotest village.\n\nThe U.S. military commander in Vietnam, General Lionel C. McGarr, was initially skeptical of the Strategic Hamlet Program, especially because it emphasized police and local security forces rather than military action against insurgents. The U.S. military also objected to the proposed focus of the program on the most populated areas of South Vietnam; the U.S. wished to focus on areas where communist influence was greatest. After compromises were made to secure U.S. agreement, the Strategic Hamlet Program began implementation in March 1962.\n\nOperation Sunrise began on 19 March 1962 in Binh Duong province, bordering the city of Saigon on the North. The province was heavily influenced by the Viet Cong, especially in the Iron Triangle, a Viet Cong stronghold. The selection of Binh Duong was contrary to Thompson's advice to choose a more secure area for the initial phase of the Strategic Hamlet Program. The United States Agency for International Development provided $21 per family to compensate farmers for their loss of property when forced to move into a strategic hamlet. Of the first 210 families relocated, 140 were reported to have been moved at gunpoint. South Vietnamese soldiers burned their former villages. By May, South Vietnam's government-owned newspaper reported that only 7 percent of 38,000 rural dwellers in the target area had been relocated either voluntarily or by force.\n\nAlthough many people in both the U.S. government and the government of South Vietnam (GVN) agreed that the Strategic Hamlet Program was strong in theory, its actual implementation was deficient on several grounds. Roger Hilsman himself later claimed that the GVN's execution of program constituted a \"total misunderstanding of what the [Strategic Hamlet] program should try to do.\"\n\nThe speed of the implementation of the Program was one of the main causes for its eventual failure. The Pentagon Papers reported that in September 1962, 4.3 million people were housed in 3,225 completed hamlets with more than two thousand still under construction. By July 1963, over eight and a half million people had been settled in 7,205 hamlets according to figures given by the Vietnam Press. In less than a year, both the number of completed hamlets and its population had doubled. Given this rapid rate of construction, the GVN was unable to fully support or protect the hamlets or its residents, despite funding by the United States government. Vietcong insurgents easily sabotaged and overran the poorly defended communities, gaining access to the South Vietnamese peasants. Only twenty percent of the hamlets in the Mekong Delta area were controlled by the GVN by the end of 1963. In an interview, a resident of a hamlet in Vinh-Long described the situation: \"It is dangerous in my village because the civil guard from the district headquarters cross the river to the village only in the daytime…leaving the village unprotected at night. The village people have no protection from the Viet Cong so they will not inform on them to the authorities.\"\n\nThere are several other important problems that the GVN faced in addition to those created by the failure to provide basic social needs for the peasants and over-extension of its resources. One of these was wide public opposition to the Program stemming partly from an aggressive propaganda campaign by the Viet Cong, but also brought about by the inability of the committee to choose safe and agriculturally sound locations for the hamlets. However, according to the Pentagon Papers, the most important source of failure was the inflexible nature of the ruling Ngo family.\n\nIn 1962, Ngo Dinh Nhu, President Diem's brother, headed the Strategic Hamlet Program, attempting to build fortified villages that would provide security for rural Vietnamese. The objective was to lock the Viet Cong out so that they could not operate among the villagers. Colonel Phạm Ngọc Thảo supervised these efforts, and when told that the peasants resented being forcibly removed from their ancestral lands and put into forts they were compelled to build, he advised Nhu it was imperative to build as many hamlets as fast as possible. The Ngôs were unaware Thảo, ostensibly a Catholic, was in fact a communist double agent acting to turn the rural populace against Saigon. Thảo helped to ruin Nhu's scheme by having strategic hamlets built in communist strongholds. This increased the number of communist sympathizers who were placed inside the hamlets and given identification cards. As a result, the Viet Cong were able to more effectively penetrate the villages to access supplies and personnel.\n\nIn the best case scenario, restructuring peasant villages to create a defensible perimeter would require the forced relocation of some of the peasants on the outskirts of the existing villages. To ease the burden, those forced to move were supposed to be financially compensated, but they were not always paid by the GVN forces. To make matters worse, their old homes were often burned before their eyes. These people were forced to build new ones with their own labor and at their own expense. Compounding these traumas were the long days of compulsory labor the South Vietnamese government forced on the peasants, leading Noam Chomsky to compare the hamlets to \"virtual concentration camps.\" \n\nPresident Diem and his brother Nhu, who oversaw the program, decided -— contrary to Hilsman's and Thompson's theory—that in most cases they would relocate entire villages rather than simply restructuring them. This decision led to large-scale forced relocation that was deeply unpopular among the peasantry. The mostly-Buddhist peasantry practiced ancestor worship, an important part of their religion that was disrupted by being forced out of their villages and away from their ancestors' graves and their ancestral homes. Some who resisted resettlement were summarily executed by GVN forces.\n\nPromised compensation for resettled peasants was not always forthcoming and instead found its way in the pockets of South Vietnamese government officials. Peasants were promised wages for their labor building the new villages and fortifications; some corrupt officials kept the money for themselves. Wealthier peasants sometimes bribed their way out of working on construction, leaving more labor for the poorer peasants. Although the U.S. provided materials like sheet metal and barbed wire, corrupt officials sometimes forced the locals to buy the materials intended to provide them with protection.\n\nPerhaps the greatest shortcoming of the Strategic Hamlet Program was its failure to provide the basic security envisioned by its proponents. This failure was partly due to poor placement of the hamlets. Ignoring the \"oil-blot\" principle (establish first in secure areas, then spread out), the South Vietnamese government began building strategic hamlets as quickly as possible and seemingly without considering \"geographical priorities,\" according to a U.S. official. The randomly placed hamlets were isolated, not mutually supporting, and tempting targets for the Vietcong.\n\nEach hamlet was given a radio with which to call for South Vietnamese army ARVN support, but in fact ARVN forces were unreliable in responding to calls for help, especially when attacks occurred after nightfall. The villagers were also given weapons and training, but were only expected to hold out until conventional reinforcements arrived. Once it became clear that ARVN could not be relied upon, many villagers proved unwilling to fight even small Vietcong detachments, which could then capture the villagers' weapons. \"Why should we die for weapons?\" asked one Vietnamese peasant.\n\nDespite the Diem government's attempt to put a positive spin on the Strategic Hamlet Program, by mid-1963 it was clear to many that the program was failing. American military advisors such as John Paul Vann criticized the program in their official reports. They also expressed concerns to reporters who began to investigate more closely. David Halberstam's coverage of the Strategic Hamlet Program's shortcomings caught the eye of President Kennedy.\n\nThe Strategic Hamlet Program was exposed as an almost complete failure in the aftermath of the November 1, 1963 coup that left Diem and his brother Nhu murdered. US officials discovered, for example, that only 20% of the 8600 hamlets that the Diem regime had reported \"Complete\" met the minimum American standards of security and readiness. The situation had passed the point of possible recovery. The program officially ended in 1964.\n\nOn the ground in Vietnam, the demise of the program was visible. By the end of 1963, empty hamlets lined country roads, stripped of valuable metal by the Vietcong and the fleeing peasants. According to Neil Sheehan, \"The rows of roofless houses looked like villages of play huts that children had erected and then whimsically abandoned.\"\n\nIn his book \"Vietnam: a History\" (Viking,1983) Stanley Karnow describes his observations: \n\nYears later Roger Hilsman stated his belief that the strategic hamlet concept was executed so poorly by the Diem regime and the GVN \"that it was useless.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "38876833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38876833", "title": "Telugu language policy", "text": "Telugu language policy\n\nTelugu language policy is an issue in the Indian states of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, with 84 percent of the population reporting Telugu as their first language in Andhra Pradesh prior to the secession of Telangana. Telugu-language advocates note a lack of incentivisation and government support for the language, and press for their linguistic rights for Telugu's greater official in the recognition and promotion.\n\nTelugu and English are the two dominant languages of instruction in the schools of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, while there are also schools who use other regional languages such as Urdu as the medium of instruction. Telugu is a compulsory subject in schools in both states, with fluency in the language being a requirement for matriculation.\n\nThe government in Andhra Pradesh is working to increase the number of English medium schools state schools, with some proposals calling for English to be the only medium of instruction in state schools, claiming that this policy reflects the growing desire of parents and that the state sector is losing pupils due to its inability to meet the increased demand for English medium schools. In Telangana, the government has issued plans to mandate English-medium education in all the private schools in the state. The trend towards English-medium education has caused alarm among some Telugu-language activists who claim that the state governments are placing the language in an inferior position and depriving Telugu-speakers of their language rights. Passions have been further inflamed by anecdotal reports of students in English-language schools being punished for speaking Telugu.\n\nMany educated Telugu people began travelling around the world in search of knowledge-based jobs, and have observed that many countries are prospering faster than India by imparting education in their native languages without depending on English. Throughout India, native-language advocates are demanding less reliance on English.\n\nIn 2012 the Andhra Pradesh official-language commission resumed its activities, and was tasked with organizing the fourth World Telugu Conference (WTC) after a 22-year hiatus. The conference was a success, with 5,000 Telugu delegates from all over the world meeting in Tirupati.\n\n\n\nPrint and visual Telugu media have taken steps to reduce English in Telugu programs, using appropriate alternate Telugu words. The Andhra Cricket Association has translated the National Cricket Academy's (NCA) coaching manuals into Telugu.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "247874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=247874", "title": "Terra nullius", "text": "Terra nullius\n\nTerra nullius (, plural \"terrae nullius\") is a Latin expression meaning \"nobody's land\", and is a principle sometimes used in international law to describe territory that may be acquired by a state's occupation of it.\n\n\"Terra nullius\" stems from the Roman law term \"res nullius\", meaning \"nobody's thing\". According to the Roman law \"res nullius\", or things without an owner, such as wild animals (\"ferae beastiae\"), lost slaves and abandoned buildings could be taken as property by anyone by seizure.\n\nA part of the debate over the history of \"terra nullius\" is when the term itself was first used. According to historian of ideas Andrew Fitzmaurice, \"territorium nullius\" and \"terra nullius\" were two different, albeit related, legal terms. He claims that \"territorium nullius\" was first used in a meeting of the Institut de Droit International in 1888 where the legal principles of the Berlin conference discussed and that \"terra nullius\" was introduced twenty years later during legal disputes over the polar regions. Historian Michael Connor on the other hand, argues that \"territorium nullius\" and \"terra nullius\" are the same thing. Both scholars are active in the Australian history wars debate.\n\nThere is considerable debate among historians about how and when the \"terra nullius\" concepts were used. The debate has been especially prevalent in Australia where it was ignited by the history wars caused by the Mabo case in 1992. The history wars caused Australian historians to reevaluate the country's history, the dispossession of Aborigines and whether the land should best be characterized as having been \"settled\" or \"conquered\". A part of this debate concerned whether \"terra nullius\" as a concept was ever used by England and other European powers to justify territorial conquest.\n\nOn one side of the debate are historians such as Alan Frost and Henry Reynolds who claims that in the 15th and 16th century, European writers adopted the \"res nullius\" concept for territorial conquest. Frost writes:\n\nHistorians debate whether \"first discovery and effective occupation\" was applied to territory inhabited by indigenous people that European empires sought to acquire or not. According to Frost:\n\nOn the other side of the debate are historians which claim that \"terra nullius\" is a much younger concept, which did not become formalized before the end of the 19th century. Historian Merete Borch writes:\n\nThese historians claim instead that territorial conquest was justified from natural law — that which has no owner can be taken by the first taker. Michael Connor in his book \"The Invention of Terra Nullius\" takes an even more extreme view and argues that no one in the 19th century thought of Australia as being \"terra nullius\". He calls the concept a legal fiction, a straw man developed in the late 20th century:\n\nFew territories are currently considered \"terra nullius\".\n\nBir Tawil is an example of a territory often claimed to be \"terra nullius\". Between Egypt and Sudan is the landlocked territory of Bir Tawil, which was created by a discrepancy between borders drawn in 1899 and 1903. One border placed Bir Tawil under Sudan's control and the Hala'ib Triangle under Egypt's; the other border did the reverse. Both countries assert the border that lets them claim Hala'ib, which is significantly larger and next to the Red Sea, with the side effect that Bir Tawil is unclaimed by either nation. The area is, however, under the \"de facto\" control of Egypt, although it is not shown on official Egyptian maps. Bir Tawil has no settled population but the land is used by Bedouins who roam the area.\n\nWhile several countries have made claims to parts of Antarctica in the first half of the 20th century, the remainder, including most of Marie Byrd Land (the portion east from 150°W to 90°W), has not been claimed by any sovereign nation. Signatories to the Antarctic Treaty of 1959 agreed not to make such claims, except the Soviet Union and the United States, who reserved the right to make a claim.\n\nSeveral territories have been claimed to be \"terra nullius\". In a minority of those claims, international and domestic courts have ruled on whether the territory is or was \"terra nullius\" or not.\n\nAustralian Aborigines had inhabited Australia for over 65,000 years before European settlement, which commenced in 1788. Indigenous customs, rituals and laws were unwritten. It has been claimed that Australia was considered \"terra nullius\" at the time of settlement.\n\nIn 1971, in the controversial case of \"Milirrpum v Nabalco Pty Ltd\", popularly known as the Gove land rights case, Justice Richard Blackburn ruled that Australia had been considered \"desert and uncultivated\" (a term which included territory in which resided \"uncivilized inhabitants in a primitive state of society\") before European settlement, and therefore, by the law that applied at the time, open to be claimed by right of occupancy, and that there was no such thing as native title in Australian law. The concept of \"terra nullius\" was not considered in this case, however. Court cases in 1977, 1979, and 1982 – brought by or on behalf of Aboriginal activists – challenged Australian sovereignty on the grounds that \"terra nullius\" had been improperly applied, therefore Aboriginal sovereignty should still be regarded as being intact. The courts rejected these cases, but the Australian High Court left the door open for a reassessment of whether the continent should be considered \"settled\" or \"conquered\". Later, on 1 February 2014, the traditional owners of land on Badu Island received freehold title to 10,000 hectare in an act of the Queensland Government.\n\nIn 1982, Eddie Mabo and four other Torres Strait Islanders from Mer (Murray Island) started legal proceedings to establish their traditional land ownership. This led to \"Mabo v Queensland (No 1)\". In 1992, after ten years of hearings before the Queensland Supreme Court and the High Court of Australia, the latter court found that the Mer people had owned their land prior to annexation by Queensland.\nThe ruling thus had far-reaching significance for the land claims of both Torres Strait Islanders and other Indigenous Australians.\n\nThe controversy over Australian land ownership erupted into the so-called \"history wars\". The 1992 Mabo decision overturned the doctrine of \"terra nullius\" in Australia.\n\nScotland or Great Britain, the Netherlands, and Denmark–Norway all claimed sovereignty over the archipelago of Svalbard in the seventeenth century, but none permanently occupied it. Expeditions from each of these polities visited Svalbard principally during the summer for whaling, with the first two sending a few wintering parties in the 1620s and 1630s.\n\nDuring the 19th century, both Norway and Russia made strong claims to the archipelago. In 1909, Italian jurist Camille Piccioni described Spitzbergen, as it was then known, as \"terra nullius\":\n\nThe territorial dispute was eventually resolved by the Svalbard Treaty of 9 February 1920 which recognized Norwegian sovereignty over the islands.\n\nNorway occupied and claimed parts of (then uninhabited) Eastern Greenland in 1931, claiming that it constituted \"terra nullius\" and calling the territory Erik the Red's Land.\nThe Permanent Court of International Justice ruled against the Norwegian claim. The Norwegians accepted the ruling and withdrew their claim.\n\nThe Philippines and the People's Republic of China both claim the Scarborough Shoal or Panatag Shoal or Huangyan Island (黄岩岛), nearest to the island of Luzon, located in the South China Sea. The Philippines claims it under the principles of \"terra nullius\" and EEZ (Exclusive Economic Zone). China's claim refers to its discovery in the 13th century by Chinese fishermen. The former Nationalist government on the Chinese mainland had also claimed this territory after the founding of the Republic of China in 1911. However, despite China's position of non-participation based on the UNCLOS, the 2016 PCA denied the lawfulness of China's \"Nine Dash Line\" claim. Despite this, China continues to build artificial islands in the South China Sea and Scarborough Shoal is a prime location for another one. Chinese ships have been seen in the vicinity of the shoal. Observers of the photos have concluded that the ships lack dredging equipment and therefore represent no imminent threat of reclamation work.\n\nIn 1840, Lieutenant William Hobson, following instructions of the British government, pronounced the southern island of New Zealand to be uninhabited by civilized peoples, which qualified the land to be \"terra nullius\", and therefore fit for the Crown's political occupation.\nHobson's decision was also influenced by a small party of French settlers heading towards Akaroa on Banks Peninsula to settle in 1840.\n\nJoseph Trutch, the first Lieutenant Governor of British Columbia, insisted that First Nations had never owned land, and thus could safely be ignored. It is for this reason that most of British Columbia remains unceded land.\n\nIn \"Guerin v. The Queen\", a Supreme Court of Canada decision on aboriginal rights, the Court stated that the government has a fiduciary duty toward the First Nations of Canada and established aboriginal title to be a sui generis right. Since, there has been a more complicated debate and a general narrowing of the definition of \"fiduciary duty\".\n\nThe Guano Islands Act of 18 August 1856 enabled citizens of the U.S. to take possession of islands containing guano deposits. The islands can be located anywhere, so long as they are not occupied and not within the jurisdiction of other governments. It also empowers the President of the United States to use the military to protect such interests, and establishes the criminal jurisdiction of the United States.\n\nA disputed archipelago in the East China Sea, the uninhabited Senkaku Islands, are claimed by Japan to have become part of its territory as \"terra nullius\" in January 1895, following the First Sino-Japanese War. However, this interpretation is not accepted by the People's Republic of China (PRC) and the Republic of China (Taiwan), both of whom claim sovereignty over the islands.\n\nA narrow strip of land adjacent to two territorial markers along the Burkina Faso–Niger border was claimed by neither country until the International Court of Justice settled a more extensive territorial dispute in 2013. The former unclaimed territory was awarded to Niger.\n\nThe sovereignty of Clipperton Island was settled by arbitration between France and Mexico. King Victor Emmanuel III of Italy rendered a decision in 1931 that \" 'the sovereignty of Clipperton Island belongs to France from the date of November 17, 1858.' The Mexican claim was rejected for lack of proof of prior Spanish discovery and, in any event, no effective occupation by Mexico before 1858, when the island was therefore \"territorium nullius\", and the French occupation then was sufficient and legally continuing.\"\n\nAccording to Ian Mitchell, Rockall was \"terra nullius\" until it was claimed by the United Kingdom in 1955. It was formally annexed in 1972.\n\nOne of the few micronations to control a physical location, the Principality of Sealand has existed de facto since 1967 on an abandoned British anti-aircraft gun tower in the North Sea. At the point when it was taken over, the tower had been abandoned by the Royal Navy and was outside British territorial waters. Paddy Roy Bates, who styled himself Prince, claimed that it was \"terra nullius\". Despite rejecting this claim on the basis that the tower is an artificial structure, the British government has never attempted to evict the Sealanders, and a court in 1968 confirmed that at that point, the tower was outside British jurisdiction.\n\nAt the request of Morocco, the International Court of Justice in 1975 addressed whether Western Sahara was \"terra nullius\" at the time of Spanish colonization in 1885. The court found in its advisory opinion that Western Sahara was not \"terra nullius\" at that time.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55989623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55989623", "title": "Tommy Cheung (student leader)", "text": "Tommy Cheung (student leader)\n\nTommy Cheung Sau-yin (; born 16 April 1994) is a Hong Kong activist. He is the former spokesman of Scholarism, president of the Student Union of the Chinese University of Hong Kong and the standing committee of the Hong Kong Federation of Students (HKFS).\n\nHe was a core member of Scholarism which was formed in 2011 to launch campaigns against the proposed Moral and National Education which was seen as biased pro-Communist curriculum and became the spokesman of the group. The campaign successfully mobilised the thousands in protest and led to the turndown of the curriculum by the government in September 2012.\n\nCheung was later enrolled to the Chinese University of Hong Kong, studying Politics and Public Administration. He became the president of the Student Union in 2014 and the member of the Hong Kong Federation of Students (HKFS). He was actively involved in the massive Occupy protests in 2014 against the Beijing's decision on the framework of the 2017 Chief Executive election. He became one of the nine leading figures arrested in 2017 for initiating the illegal assembly.\n\nHe led the seven-member \"Student United 2017\" running in the Election Committee subsector elections in December 2016 on the capacity of the former member of the Chinese University’s Senate but his candidacy was barred by the Returning Officer of the Electoral Affairs Commission because of his \"insufficient connection\" with the Higher Education subsector.\n\nIn the 2018 New Territories East by-election, Cheung announced his candidacy and joined the pro-democracy primary, running against Gary Fan of Neo Democrats and Kwok Wing-kin of the Labour Party.\n"}
{"id": "58102418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58102418", "title": "Vladimir Despotuli", "text": "Vladimir Despotuli\n\nVladimir Mikhailovich Despotuli (; ; Kerch 1885 - Rhineland 1977) was a Russian of Greek origin. He was the publisher of Russian language newspaper \"Novoye Slovo\".\n\nHe was born in a family of Russian Greeks. He participated as an officer in the Russian expeditionary in the Persian campaign, where he served as adjunant lieutant of General Nikolai Baratov and served as commander of Tehran for a period of time. After the Bolsheviks prevailed, he settled in Germany as an Émigré.\n\nIn Germany he worked as a journalist, initially as editor and then as publisher of the Russian-language newspaper \"Novoye Slovo\" (New Word) . After 1934 the newspaper became the only Russian-speaking newspaper. Novoye Slovo was funded by the Nazi party's foreign affairs office, initially with anti-Semitic and anti-Soviet reports, and after the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact with reports against Western allies. \n\nAccording to a written report by Despotuli he had a conversation with Andrei Vlasov on May 24, 1943, the latter had stated, in the interview published in the same month, that he was sad that Russian Liberation Army exists only in papers. In the same year, Gestapo arrested him for suspicion of a relations with English spy networks and, after interogate him, he was in house arrest. After the defeat of the Germans, he was arrested by the Red Army and sent to a Gulag prison for 11 years.\n\nHe was released and lived in Germany, where he died in 1977. His comrade Constantine Kromiadi then wrote a text in Memoriam.\n\nArchives of newspaper Novoye Slovo from National Library of Russia.\n\nArchives of newspaper Novoye Slovo from Berlin State Library.\n"}
{"id": "33416160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33416160", "title": "We the People (petitioning system)", "text": "We the People (petitioning system)\n\nWe the People, launched September 22, 2011, was a section of the whitehouse.gov website (under President Barack Obama) for petitioning the administration's policy experts. Petitions that met a certain threshold of signatures were typically reviewed by Administration officials who prepared and issued official responses, however, this was not always the case. Criminal justice proceedings in the United States and other processes of the federal government are not subject to White House website petitions. We the People, rather, served as a public relations device for the Obama administration to provide a venue for citizens to express themselves. On August 23, 2012, the White House Director of Digital Strategy Macon Phillips released the source code for the platform. The source code is available on GitHub, and lists both public domain status as a work of the U.S. federal government and licensing under the GPL v2. On December 19, 2017, the Trump administration announced its intention to shut down the website and replace it with a \"new platform would save taxpayers more than $1m a year.\" As of May 2018, the site is operating as it was before it shut down.\n\nUsers who wish to create a petition are required to register a free whitehouse.gov account. To sign a petition, users only need to provide their name and their email address, and they will receive an email with a link that they must click to confirm their signature. It is not necessary to have a whitehouse.gov account to sign a petition.\n\nUnder the Obama administration's rules, a petition had to reach 150 signatures (Dunbar's Number) within 30 days to be searchable on WhiteHouse.gov, according to Tom Cochran, former director of digital technology. It had to reach 100,000 signatures within 30 days to receive an official response. The original threshold was set at 5,000 signatures on September 1, 2011, was raised to 25,000 on October 3, 2011, and raised again to 100,000 as of January 15, 2013. The White House typically would not comment when a petition concerned an ongoing investigation.\n\n\"It's unclear whether Trump's advisors will make a tradition of publicly responding to petitions from the American people,\" Dell Cameron wrote for the Daily Dot on the day that Trump was inaugurated, noting that the Trump administration that same day \"archived\" (that is, deactivated) all petitions in progress on the 'We the People' site. New petitions were created, but only two petitions—both created on Inauguration Day—soared above the 100,000-signature threshold within the Trump administration's first week, while other petitions created subsequently seemed not to count signatures at all. The website was later fixed to count signatures but the Trump administration did not respond to any of the petitions until March 2018.\n\nIn November 2012, a petition was created urging the government to create a Death Star as an economic stimulus and job creation measure gained more than 25,000 signatures, enough to qualify for an official response. The official (tongue-in-cheek) response released in January 2013 noted that the cost of building a real Death Star has been estimated at $852 quadrillion and at current rates of steel production, would not be ready for more than 833,000 years. The response also noted that \"the Administration does not support blowing up planets\" and questions funding a weapon \"with a fundamental flaw that can be exploited by a one-man starship\" as reasons for denying the petition.\n\nFollowing the spree shooting in Newtown, Connecticut on December 14, 2012, a petition for new gun-control measures achieved 100,000 signatures within 24 hours.\n\nIn February 2013, a petition started by OpenSignal co-founder and digital rights activist Sina Khanifar reached the 100,000-signature threshold required for a response from the White House. Two weeks later, the Obama administration issued a response urging the FCC and Congress to take and legalize cell phone unlocking. A year later, Congress passed the Unlocking Consumer Choice and Wireless Competition Act, the first piece of legislation driven by an online petition. The bill was signed into law by President Obama on August 1, 2014.\n\nIn March 2015, as the United States and the P5+1 group were negotiating with Iran on an agreement to restrain Iran's nuclear program, 47 Republican Senators sent an open letter to the leaders of Iran strongly suggesting that a future president or Congress could nullify any such agreement. This action was widely construed as deliberate interference with the negotiations, and possibly a violation of the Logan Act. In response, several similar petitions were posted on March 9, 2015. One petition, entitled \"File charges against the 47 U.S. Senators in violation of the Logan Act in attempting to undermine a nuclear agreement\", passed the 100,000-signature threshold within one day. The petition had reached the number 1 spot, garnering more than 320,000 signatures by April 8, 2015, more than three times the number of signatures required to qualify for a response from the White House. For a variety of reasons, however, pundits, news analysts and legal scholars are largely skeptical that the petition will receive a favorable response leading to the requested prosecutions.\n\n\"Within hours\" of President Donald Trump's inauguration on January 20, 2017, two petitions had been started on the site. One, for the release of his taxes, \"with all information needed to verify emoluments clause compliance\" reached the 100,000 signature threshold within twenty-four hours. Another, for the President to divest himself of his assets or put them in a blind trust, had some seventy-seven thousand. On January 22, Presidential aide Kellyanne Conway declared that the tax returns will not be released. On January 27, the petitions had over 385,000 and 119,000 signatures, respectively, with the former being a record number of signatures for any petition on the site. By the February 17 deadline to reach 100,000 signatures, it had exceeded one million signatures, making it the first petition on the site to do so.\n\nIn August 2017, a petition requesting that \"AntiFa\" be classified by the Pentagon as a terrorist organization was launched. The petition had over 100,000 signatures within three days. The final count before White House responded was 368,423. The originator of the \"AntiFa\" petition, who goes by the pseudonym \"Microchip\", remarked to \"Politico\" that getting conservatives to share and discuss the petition was the entire point, rather than prompting any concrete action by the government. The White House responded to the petition, stating \"Although Federal law provides a mechanism to designate and sanction \"foreign\" terrorist organizations and foreign state sponsors of terrorism, there is currently no analogous mechanism for formally designating \"domestic\" terrorist organizations. Nonetheless, law enforcement has many tools at its disposal to address violent individuals and groups.\" (emphasis added)\n\nConcerns about the efficacy of We the People have been raised since before the first White House responses were published.\n\nOn August 13, 2013, the \"Washington Post\" website published an article about 30 petitions that had been left unanswered for an average of 240 days despite each having met the signature goals. The article refers to the website www.whpetitions.info for taking \"its own tally and highlights petitions that have received enough signatures but have not received responses.\"\n\nAs of 16 October 2016, 323 White House petitions have met their signature thresholds. The White House has responded to 321 of them (99%) with an average response time of 117 days. Average waiting time so far for two unanswered petitions: 23 days, according to whpetitions.info. The total number of petitions created and percent that have reached an actionable level beyond a response are unable to be determined at this time.\n\nCriticism has been directed at the choice of administration official to answer the petitions regarding the legalization of marijuana. Gil Kerlikowske, the Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy, was chosen to craft the administration's response. The criticism stems from the Office of National Drug Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 1998, which states that the Director must oppose all attempts to legalize the use of illicit drugs in any form.\n\nOther discussions of We the People have focused on its technical glitches, democratic rationale, and political dilemmas. There is criticism about the willingness of the administration to answer petitions that meet the threshold for response, when several qualifying petitions have been unanswered for months or years. In addition, the digital divide means that poor communities will have difficulty participating equally in We The People.\n\nDuring the first weeks of the presidency of Donald Trump, \"The Independent\" and \"The A.V. Club\" reported that many popular petitions did not appear to be receiving any signatures. Additionally, certain URLs to the petitions led to error pages. Macon Phillips, the man behind \"We the People\", told \"BuzzFeed News\" that the issue stemmed from issues with its cache. He also thought that Trump's administration \"is still trying to get their heads around how it works\".\n\n"}
