{"id": "10639053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10639053", "title": "1685 in art", "text": "1685 in art\n\nEvents from the year 1685 in art.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2152", "title": "All Quiet on the Western Front", "text": "All Quiet on the Western Front\n\nAll Quiet on the Western Front () is a novel by Erich Maria Remarque, a German veteran of World War I. The book describes the German soldiers' extreme physical and mental stress during the war, and the detachment from civilian life felt by many of these soldiers upon returning home from the front.\n\nThe novel was first published in November and December 1928 in the German newspaper \"Vossische Zeitung\" and in book form in late January 1929. The book and its sequel, \"The Road Back\" (1930), were among the books banned and burned in Nazi Germany. \"All Quiet on the Western Front\" sold 2.5 million copies in 22 languages in its first 18 months in print.\n\nIn 1930, the book was adapted as an Academy-Award-winning film of the same name, directed by Lewis Milestone. It was adapted again in 1979 by Delbert Mann, this time as a television film starring Richard Thomas and Ernest Borgnine.\n\nThe English translation by Arthur Wesley Wheen gives the title as \" All Quiet on the Western Front\". The literal translation of \"Im Westen nichts Neues\" is \"In the West Nothing New,\" with \"West\" being the Western Front; the phrase refers to the content of an official communiqué at the end of the novel.\n\nBrian Murdoch's 1993 translation would render the phrase as \"there was nothing new to report on the Western Front\" within the narrative. Explaining his retention of the original book-title, he says:\nAlthough it does not match the German exactly, Wheen's title has justly become part of the English language and is retained here with gratitude.\nThe phrase \"all quiet on the Western Front\" has become a colloquial expression meaning stagnation, or lack of visible change, in any context.\n\nThe book tells the story of Paul Bäumer who belongs to a group of German soldiers on the Western Front during World War I. The patriotic speeches of his teacher Kantorek had led the whole class to volunteer for military service shortly after the start of World War I. His class was \"scattered over the platoons amongst Frisian fishermen, peasants, and labourers.\" Bäumer arrives at the Western Front with his friends and schoolmates (Leer, Müller, Kropp and a number of other characters). There they meet Stanislaus Katczinsky, an older soldier, nicknamed Kat, who becomes Paul's mentor. While fighting at the front, Bäumer and his comrades have to engage in frequent battles and endure the treacherous and filthy conditions of trench warfare.\n\nAt the beginning of the book, Remarque writes, \"This book is to be neither an accusation nor a confession, and least of all an adventure, for death is not an adventure to those who stand face to face with it. It will try simply to tell of a generation of men who, even though they may have escaped (its) shells, were destroyed by the war.\" The book does not focus on heroic stories of bravery, but rather gives a view of the conditions in which the soldiers find themselves. The monotony between battles, the constant threat of artillery fire and bombardments, the struggle to find food, the lack of training of young recruits (meaning lower chances of survival), and the overarching role of random chance in the lives and deaths of the soldiers are described in detail. They had been forced into the army.\n\nThe battles fought here have no names and seem to have little overall significance, except for the impending possibility of injury or death for Bäumer and his comrades. Only pitifully small pieces of land are gained, about the size of a football field, which are often lost again later. Remarque often refers to the living soldiers as old and dead, emotionally drained and shaken. \"We are not youth any longer. We don't want to take the world by storm. We are fleeing from ourselves, from our life. We were eighteen and had begun to love life and the world; and we had to shoot it to pieces.\"\n\nPaul's visit on leave to his home highlight the cost of the war on his psyche. The town has not changed since he went off to war; however, he finds that he does \"not belong here anymore, it is a foreign world.\" He feels disconnected from most of the townspeople. His father asks him \"stupid and distressing\" questions about his war experiences, not understanding \"that a man cannot talk of such things.\" An old schoolmaster lectures him about strategy and advancing to Paris while insisting that Paul and his friends know only their \"own little sector\" of the war but nothing of the big picture.\n\nIndeed, the only person he remains connected to is his dying mother, with whom he shares a tender, yet restrained relationship. The night before he is to return from leave, he stays up with her, exchanging small expressions of love and concern for each other. He thinks to himself, \"Ah! Mother, Mother! How can it be that I must part from you? Here I sit and there you are lying; we have so much to say, and we shall never say it.\" In the end, he concludes that he \"ought never to have come [home] on leave.\"\n\nPaul feels glad to be reunited with his comrades. Soon after, he volunteers to go on a patrol and kills a man for the first time in hand-to-hand combat. He watches the man die, in pain for hours. He feels remorse and asks forgiveness from the man's corpse. He is devastated and later confesses to Kat and Albert, who try to comfort him and reassure him that it is only part of the war.\nThey are then sent on what Paul calls a \"good job.\" They must guard a supply depot in a village that was evacuated due to being shelled too heavily. During this time, the men are able to adequately feed themselves, unlike the near-starvation conditions in the German trenches. In addition, the men enjoy themselves while living off the spoils from the village and officers' luxuries from the supply depot (such as fine cigars). While evacuating the villagers (enemy civilians), Paul and Albert are taken by surprise by artillery fired at the civilian convoy and wounded by a shell. On the train back home, Albert takes a turn for the worse and cannot complete the journey, instead being sent off the train to recuperate in a Catholic hospital.\nPaul uses a combination of bartering and manipulation to stay by Albert's side. Albert eventually has his leg amputated, while Paul is deemed fit for service and returned to the front.\n\nBy now, the war is nearing its end and the German Army is retreating. In despair, Paul watches as his friends fall one by one. It is the death of Kat that eventually makes Paul careless about living. In the final chapter, he comments that peace is coming soon, but he does not see the future as bright and shining with hope. Paul feels that he has no aims or goals left in life and that their generation will be different and misunderstood.\n\nIn October 1918, Paul is finally killed on a remarkably peaceful day. The situation report from the frontline states a simple phrase: \"All quiet on the Western Front.\" Paul's corpse displays a calm expression on its face, \"as though almost glad the end had come.\"\n\nOne of the major themes of the novel is the difficulty of soldiers to revert to civilian life after having experienced extreme combat situations. Remarque comments in the preface that \"[This book] will try simply to tell of a generation of men who, even though they may have escaped its shells, were destroyed by the war.\" This internal destruction can be found as early as the first chapter as Paul comments that, although all the boys are young, their youth has left them. In addition, the massive loss of life and negligible gains from the fighting are constantly emphasized. Soldiers' lives are thrown away by their commanding officers who are stationed comfortably away from the front, ignorant of the daily terrors of the front line.\n\nKropp was in Paul's class at school and is described as the clearest thinker of the group as well as the smallest. Kropp is wounded towards the end of the novel and undergoes a leg amputation. Both he and Bäumer end up spending time in a Catholic hospital together, Bäumer suffering from shrapnel wounds to the leg and arm. Though Kropp initially plans to commit suicide if he requires an amputation, the book suggests he postponed suicide because of the strength of military camaraderie. Kropp and Bäumer part ways when Bäumer is recalled to his regiment after recovering. Paul comments that saying farewell was \"very hard, but it is something a soldier learns to deal with.\"\n\nHaie is described as being tall and strong, and a peat-digger by profession. Overall, his size and behavior make him seem older than Paul, yet he is the same age as Paul and his school-friends (roughly 19 at the start of the book). Haie, in addition, has a good sense of humour. During combat, he is injured in his back, fatally (Chapter 6)—the resulting wound is large enough for Paul to see Haie's breathing lung when Himmelstoß (Himmelstoss) carries him to safety.\n\nMüller is about 18 and a half years of age, one of Bäumer's classmates, when he also joins the German army as a volunteer to go to the war. Carrying his old school books with him to the battlefield, he constantly reminds himself of the importance of learning and education. Even while under enemy fire, he \"mutters propositions in physics\". He became interested in Kemmerich's boots and inherits them when Kemmerich dies early in the novel. He is killed later in the book after being shot point-blank in the stomach with a \"light pistol\" (flare gun). As he was dying \"quite conscious and in terrible pain\", he gave his boots which he inherited from Kemmerich to Paul.\n\nKat has the most positive influence on Paul and his comrades on the battlefield. Katczinsky was a cobbler (shoemaker) in civilian life; he is older than Paul Bäumer and his comrades, about 40 years old, and serves as their leadership figure. He also represents a literary model highlighting the differences between the younger and older soldiers. While the older men have already had a life of professional and personal experience before the war, Bäumer and the men of his age have had little life experience or time for personal growth.\n\nKat is also well known for his ability to scavenge nearly any item needed, especially food. At one point he secures four boxes of lobster. Bäumer describes Kat as possessing a sixth sense. One night, Bäumer along with a group of other soldiers are holed up in a factory with neither rations nor comfortable bedding. Katczinsky leaves for a short while, returning with straw to put over the bare wires of the beds. Later, to feed the hungry men, Kat brings bread, a bag of horse flesh, a lump of fat, a pinch of salt and a pan in which to cook the food.\n\nKat is hit by shrapnel at the end of the story, leaving him with a smashed shin. Paul carries him back to camp on his back, only to discover upon their arrival that a stray splinter had hit Kat in the back of the head and killed him on the way. He is thus the last of Paul's close friends to die in battle. It is Kat's death that eventually makes Bäumer indifferent as to whether he survives the war or not, yet certain that he can face the rest of his life without fear. \"Let the months and the years come, they can take nothing from me, they can take nothing more. I am so alone, and so without hope that I can confront them without fear.\"\n\nOne of Bäumer's non-schoolmate friends. Before the war, Tjaden was a locksmith. A big eater with a grudge against the former postman-turned corporal Himmelstoß (thanks to his strict \"disciplinary actions\"), he manages to forgive Himmelstoß later in the book. Throughout the book, Paul frequently remarks on how much of an eater he is, yet somehow manages to stay as \"thin as a rake\". He appears in the sequel, \"The Road Back\".\n\nKantorek was the schoolmaster of Paul and his friends, including Kropp, Leer, Müller, and Behm. Behaving \"in a way that cost [him] nothing,\" Kantorek is a strong supporter of the war and encourages Bäumer and other students in his class to join the war effort. Among twenty enlistees was Joseph Behm, the first of the class to die in battle. In an example of tragic irony, Behm was the only one who did not want to enter the war.\n\nKantorek is a hypocrite, urging the young men he teaches to fight in the name of patriotism, while not voluntarily enlisting himself. In a twist of fate, Kantorek is later called up as a soldier as well. He very reluctantly joins the ranks of his former students, only to be drilled and taunted by Mittelstädt, one of the students he had earlier persuaded to enlist.\n\nLeer is an intelligent soldier in Bäumer's company, and one of his classmates. He is very popular with women; when he and his comrades meet three French women, he is the first to seduce one of them. Bäumer describes Leer's ability to attract women by saying \"Leer is an old hand at the game\". In chapter 11, Leer is hit by a shell fragment, which also hits Bertinck. The shrapnel tears open Leer's hip, causing him to bleed to death quickly. His death causes Paul to ask himself, \"What use is it to him now that he was such a good mathematician in school?\"\n\nLieutenant Bertinck is the leader of Bäumer's company. His men have a great respect for him, and Bertinck has great respect for his men. He permits them to eat the rations of the men that had been killed in action, standing up to the chef Ginger who would only allow them their allotted share. Bertinck is genuinely despondent when he learns that few of his men had survived an engagement.\n\nWhen he and the other characters are trapped in a trench under heavy attack, Bertinck, who has been injured in the firefight, spots a flamethrower team advancing on them. He gets out of cover and takes aim on the flamethrower but misses, and gets hit by enemy fire. With his next shot he kills the flamethrower, and immediately afterwards an enemy shell explodes on his position blowing off his chin. The same explosion also fatally wounds Leer.\n\nCorporal Himmelstoss (spelled Himmelstoß in some editions) was a postman before enlisting in the war. He is a power-hungry corporal with special contempt for Paul and his friends, taking sadistic pleasure in punishing the minor infractions of his trainees during their basic training in preparation for their deployment. Paul later figures that the training taught by Himmelstoss made them \"hard, suspicious, pitiless, and tough\" but most importantly it taught them comradeship. However, Bäumer and his comrades have a chance to get back at Himmelstoss because of his punishments, mercilessly whipping him on the night before they board trains to go to the front.\n\nHimmelstoss later joins them at the front, revealing himself as a coward who shirks his duties for fear of getting hurt or killed, and pretends to be wounded because of a scratch on his face. Paul Bäumer beats him because of it and when a lieutenant comes along looking for men for a trench charge, Himmelstoss joins and leads the charge. He carries Haie Westhus's body to Bäumer after he is fatally wounded. Matured and repentant through his experiences Himmelstoß later asks for forgiveness from his previous charges. As he becomes the new staff cook, to prove his friendship he secures two pounds of sugar for Bäumer and half a pound of butter for Tjaden.\n\nDetering is a farmer who constantly longs to return to his wife and farm. He is also fond of horses and is angered when he sees them used in combat. He says, \"It is of the vilest baseness to use horses in the war,\" when the group hears several wounded horses writhe and scream for a long time before dying during a bombardment. He tries to shoot them to put them out of their misery, but is stopped by Kat to keep their current position hidden. He is driven to desert when he sees a cherry tree in blossom, which reminds him of home too much and inspires him to leave. He is found by military police and court-martialed, and is never heard from again.\n\nHamacher is a patient at the Catholic hospital where Paul and Albert Kropp are temporarily stationed. He has an intimate knowledge of the workings of the hospital. He also has a \"Special Permit,\" certifying him as sporadically not responsible for his actions due to a head wound, though he is clearly quite sane and exploiting his permit so he can stay in the hospital and away from the war as long as possible.\n\nA young boy of only 19 years. Franz Kemmerich had enlisted in the army for World War I along with his best friend and classmate, Bäumer. Kemmerich is shot in the leg early in the story; his injured leg has to be amputated, and he dies shortly after. In anticipation of Kemmerich's imminent death, Müller was eager to get his boots. While in the hospital, someone steals Kemmerich's watch that he intended to give to his mother, causing him great distress and prompting him to ask about his watch every time his friends visit him in the hospital. Paul later finds the watch and hands it over to Kemmerich's mother, only to lie and say Franz died instantly and painlessly when questioned.\n\nA student in Paul's class who is described as youthful and overweight. Behm was the only student that was not quickly influenced by Kantorek's patriotism to join the war, but eventually, due to pressure from friends and Kantorek, he joins the war. He is the first of Paul's friends to die. He is blinded in no man's land and believed to be dead by his friends. The next day, when he is seen walking blindly around no-man's-land, it is discovered that he was only unconscious. However, he is killed before he can be rescued.\n\nFrom November 10 to December 9, 1928, \"All Quiet on the Western Front\" was published in serial form in \"Vossische Zeitung\" magazine. It was released in book form the following year to smashing success, selling one and a half million copies that same year. Although publishers had worried that interest in World War I had waned more than 10 years after the armistice, Remarque's realistic depiction of trench warfare from the perspective of young soldiers struck a chord with the war's survivors—soldiers and civilians alike—and provoked strong reactions, both positive and negative, around the world.\n\nWith \"All Quiet on the Western Front\", Remarque emerged as an eloquent spokesman for a generation that had been, in his own words, \"destroyed by war, even though it might have escaped its shells.\" Remarque's harshest critics, in turn, were his countrymen, many of whom felt the book denigrated the German war effort, and that Remarque had exaggerated the horrors of war to further his pacifist agenda. The strongest voices against Remarque came from the emerging Nazi Party and its ideological allies. In 1933, when the Nazis rose to power, \"All Quiet on the Western Front\" became one of the first degenerate books to be publicly burnt; in 1930, screenings of the Academy Award-winning film based on the book were met with Nazi-organized protests and mob attacks on both movie theatres and audience members.\n\nHowever, objections to Remarque’s portrayal of the German army personnel during World War I were not limited to the Nazis. Dr. Karl Kroner () objected to Remarque’s depiction of the medical personnel as being inattentive, uncaring, or absent from frontline action. Dr. Kroner was specifically worried that the book would perpetuate German stereotypes abroad that had subsided since the First World War. He offered the following clarification: “People abroad will draw the following conclusions: if German doctors deal with their own fellow countrymen in this manner, what acts of inhumanity will they not perpetuate against helpless prisoners delivered up into their hands or against the populations of occupied territory?”\n\nA fellow patient of Remarque’s in the military hospital in Duisburg objected to the negative depictions of the nuns and patients, and of the general portrayal of soldiers: “There were soldiers to whom the protection of homeland, protection of house and homestead, protection of family were the highest objective, and to whom this will to protect their homeland gave the strength to endure any extremities.”\n\nThese criticisms suggest that perhaps experiences of the war and the personal reactions of individual soldiers to their experiences may be more diverse than Remarque portrays them; however, it is beyond question that Remarque gives voice to a side of the war and its experience that was overlooked or suppressed at the time. This perspective is crucial to understanding the true effects of World War I. The evidence can be seen in the lingering depression that Remarque and many of his friends and acquaintances were suffering a decade later.\n\nIn contrast, \"All Quiet on the Western Front\" was trumpeted by pacifists as an anti-war book. Remarque makes a point in the opening statement that the novel does not advocate any political position, but is merely an attempt to describe the experiences of the soldier.\n\nThe main artistic criticism was that it was a mediocre attempt to cash in on public sentiment. The enormous popularity the work received was a point of contention for some literary critics, who scoffed at the fact that such a simple work could be so earth-shattering. Much of this literary criticism came from Salomo Friedlaender, who wrote a book \"Hat Erich Maria Remarque wirklich gelebt?\" \"Did Erich Maria Remarque really live?\" (under pen name Mynona), which was, in its turn, criticized in: \"Hat Mynona wirklich gelebt?\" \"Did Mynona really live?\" by Kurt Tucholsky. Friedlaender’s criticism was mainly personal in nature—he attacked Remarque as being ego-centric and greedy. Remarque publicly stated that he wrote \"All Quiet on the Western Front\" for personal reasons, not for profit, as Friedlaender had charged. wrote a parody titled \"Vor Troja nichts Neues\" (\"Compared to Troy, Nothing New\") under the pseudonym \"Emil Marius Requark\".\n\nIn 1930, an American film of the novel was made, directed by Lewis Milestone; with a screenplay by Maxwell Anderson, George Abbott, Del Andrews, C. Gardner Sullivan; and with uncredited work by Walter Anthony and Milestone. It stars Louis Wolheim, Lew Ayres, John Wray, Arnold Lucy, and Ben Alexander.\n\nThe film won the Academy Award for Best Picture in 1930 for its producer Carl Laemmle Jr., the Academy Award for Directing for Lewis Milestone, and the Academy Award for Outstanding Production. It was the first all-talking non-musical film to win the Best Picture Oscar. It also received two further nominations: Best Cinematography, for Arthur Edeson, and Best Writing Achievement for Abbott, Anderson, and Andrews.\n\nIn 2016, it was confirmed that Roger Donaldson will direct a remake of \"All Quiet on the Western Front\" starring Travis Fimmel as Katczinsky.\n\nIn 1979, the film was remade for CBS television by Delbert Mann, starring Richard Thomas of \"The Waltons\" as Paul Bäumer and Ernest Borgnine as Kat. The movie was filmed in Czechoslovakia.\n\nElton John's album \"Jump Up!\" (1982) features the song, \"All Quiet on the Western Front\" (written by Elton and Bernie Taupin). The song is a sorrowful rendition of the novel's story (\"It's gone all quiet on the Western Front / Male Angels sigh / ghosts in a flooded trench / As Germany dies\").\n\nBob Dylan, during his Nobel Laureate lecture, cited this book as one that had a profound effect on this songwriting.\n\nOn November 9, 2008, a radio adaptation of the novel was broadcast on BBC Radio 3, starring Robert Lonsdale as Paul Bäumer and Shannon Graney as Katczinsky. Its screenplay was written by Dave Sheasby, and the show was directed by David Hunter.\n\nIn 2000, Recorded Books released an audiobook of the text, read by Frank Muller.\n\nIn 2010, Hachette Audio UK published an audiobook adaptation of the novel, narrated by Tom Lawrence. It was well received by critics and listeners.\n\nIn 1952, the novel was adapted into comic book form as part of the \"Classics Illustrated\" series.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12810813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12810813", "title": "Alphabet effect", "text": "Alphabet effect\n\nThe alphabet effect is a group of hypotheses in communication theory arguing that phonetic writing, and alphabetic scripts in particular, have served to promote and encourage the cognitive skills of abstraction, analysis, coding, decoding, and classification. Promoters of these hypotheses are associated with the Toronto School of Communication, such as Marshall McLuhan, Harold Innis, Walter Ong and more recently Robert K. Logan; the term \"alphabet effect\" comes from Logan's 1986 work (see the bibliography below which references the 2004 second edition).\n\nThe theory claims that a greater level of abstraction is required due to the greater economy of symbols in alphabetic systems; and this abstraction and the analytic skills needed to interpret phonemic symbols in turn has contributed to the cognitive development of its users. Proponents of this theory hold that the development of phonetic writing and the alphabet in particular (as distinct from other types of writing systems) has made a significant impact on Western thinking and development precisely because it introduced a new level of abstraction, analysis, coding, decoding and classification. McLuhan and Logan (1977) while not suggesting a direct causal connection nevertheless suggest that, as a result of these skills, the use of the alphabet created an environment conducive to the development of codified law, monotheism, abstract science, deductive logic, objective history, and individualism. According to Logan, \"All of these innovations, including the alphabet, arose within the very narrow geographic zone between the Tigris-Euphrates river system and the Aegean Sea, and within the very narrow time frame between 2000 B.C. and 500 B.C.\" (Logan 2004). The emergence of codified law in Sumer as exemplified by the Hammurabic code actually coincided with the reform of the Akkadian syllabic system and is not directly influenced by the alphabet per se but rather by a phonetic writing system consisting of only sixty signs. Also it has to be pointed out that there was a robust scientific tradition in China but that science as practised in ancient China was not abstract but concrete and practical. In fact the impetus for formulating the Alphabet Effect was to explain why abstract science began in the West and not China despite the long list of inventions and technology that first appeared in China as documented by Joseph Needham in his book \"The Grand Titration\" (Needham 1969). The Alphabet Effect provides an alternative explanation to what is known as Needham's Grand Question, namely why China had been overshot by the West in science and technology, despite its earlier successes.\n\nAnother impact of alphabetic writing was that it led to the invention of zero, the place number system, negative numbers, and algebra by Hindu and Buddhist mathematicians in India 2000 years ago (Logan 2004). These ideas were picked up by Arab mathematicians and scientists and eventually made their way to Europe 1400 years later.\n\nPrior to the written word there was a monopoly of knowledge by priests. (Innes: 1991, p. 4) This was because literacy was seen to be very time consuming. Therefore, all literacy was left in the hands of priests. With the priests monopolizing the content of religious texts there would be little or no dissention among the public. Thus the introduction of the alphabet substantially limited the power of the priests and religious texts were now open to society for questioning.\n\nA social ramification of the introduction of the alphabet was the creation of social distinctions within society. Scholar Andrew Robinson supports this point by stating that those who are illiterate within society are seen as being deficient and ‘backward’ (Robinson: 1995, p. 215). Consequently, the development of the alphabet allowed for distinctions to be formed within society between the literate upper class and the illiterate lower class.\n\nThe development of the alphabet and hence the written word has also affected the impact of emotion. This point is also shared by Marshall McLuhan who believes that to translate a beautiful picture into words would be to deprive it of correctly articulating its best qualities (McLuhan: 1964, p. 83). Therefore, the written word has deprived both images and beautiful objects of the correct level of emotion with which to express their exact appearance.\n\nThe fact that the alphabet introduced the idea that a person’s writing could live on long after they died was another social ramification of the alphabet. This argument is also shared by Andrew Robinson. Robinson believes that the need for ‘immortality’ has always been of extreme importance for many authors. (Robinson: 2006, p. 83) As a result, the development of the written word allowed for the ‘immortality’ of authors and their written works.\n\nGrosswiler (2004) notes that many scholars (including former adherents of the theory such as Goody) have pointed out that the theory is based on a particular Hellenocentric account of science, which neglects how different cultures have had hegemony scientifically irrespective of writing system\n\nSeveral scholars have pointed out that the logographic account of Chinese writing is obsolete and incorrect. John DeFrancis suggests the use of the term semasiographic rather than logographic, because the idea of Chinese characters as pictorial in nature is only partially true. From Dominic Yu's account: \n\nIt has been suggested (by e.g. Grosswiler 2004) that Schmandt-Besserat's research into the origin of writing from three-dimensional tokens gives an alternative to the progressivist account of the Alphabet Effect theory. Grosswiler suggests that it is the potential for recording memory, not any one system of it, that propels a culture towards scientific thought.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5457758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5457758", "title": "An Anthropologist on Mars", "text": "An Anthropologist on Mars\n\nAn Anthropologist on Mars: Seven Paradoxical Tales is a 1995 book by neurologist Oliver Sacks consisting of seven medical case histories of individuals with neurological conditions such as autism and Tourette syndrome. \"An Anthropologist on Mars\" follows up on many of the themes Sacks explored in his earlier book, \"The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat\", but here the essays are significantly longer and Sacks has more of an opportunity to discuss each subject with more depth and to explore historical case studies of patients with similar symptoms. In addition, Sacks studies his patients outside the hospital, often traveling considerable distances to interact with his subjects in their own environments. Sacks concludes that \"defects, disorders, [and] diseases... can play a paradoxical role, by bringing out latent powers, developments, evolutions, forms of life that might never be seen, or even be imaginable, in their absence\" (p. \"xvi\").\n\n\nThe 1999 film \"At First Sight\" is based on the fourth essay, \"To See and Not to See\". The Brian Friel play \"Molly Sweeney\" was also inspired by this essay. The 2011 film \"The Music Never Stopped\" is based on the second essay, \"The Last Hippie\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52247136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52247136", "title": "Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army", "text": "Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army\n\nThe Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army (; abbreviated ARSA), also known by its former name Harakah al-Yaqin (meaning \"Faith Movement\" in English), is a Rohingya insurgent group active in northern Rakhine State, Myanmar. According to a December 2016 report by the International Crisis Group, it is led by Ataullah abu Ammar Jununi, a Rohingya man who was born in Karachi, Pakistan, and grew up in Mecca, Saudi Arabia. Other members of its leadership include a committee of Rohingya émigrés in Saudi Arabia.\n\nMyanmar's \"Anti-Terrorism Central Committee\" declared ARSA a terrorist group on 25 August 2017 in accordance with the country's counter-terrorism law. The Burmese government has alleged that the group is involved with and subsidised by foreign Islamists, despite there being no firm evidence proving such allegations. ARSA released a statement on 28 August 2017, calling government allegations against it as \"baseless\" and claiming that its main purpose is to defend the rights of Rohingyas.\n\nAccording to the International Crisis Group (ICG) and a spokesperson for ARSA, the group was formed in 2013, following the 2012 Rakhine State riots, under the name \"Harakah al-Yaqin\" (translated as \"Faith Movement\" in English). A former member of ARSA described how he was recruited by the group's leader, Ataullah abu Ammar Jununi, three years prior to the attacks in October 2016. Ataullah had approached villagers, asking for five to ten recruits to join his group and telling them that the time had come to \"stop the mistreatment of the Rohingya people\". Prior to the October 2016 attacks, ARSA had merely patrolled villages armed with bamboo sticks, making sure that villagers prayed at mosques. According to Rohingya locals and Burmese security officials, the group had again began approaching Rohingya men from various villages for recruitment six months prior to its first attack in October 2016, this time with the intention of training them across the border in Bangladesh for a future attack in Myanmar.\n\nIn October 2016, under the name \"Harakah al-Yaqin\", the group claimed responsibility for attacks on Burmese border posts along the Bangladesh-Myanmar border, which left 9 border officers and 4 soldiers dead. The Tatmadaw (Myanmar Armed Forces) announced on 15 November 2016 that a total of 69 insurgents had been killed by security forces in the recent fighting. The ICG reported on 14 December 2016 that in interviews, the leaders of ARSA claimed to have links to private individuals in Saudi Arabia and Pakistan. The ICG also claimed in unconfirmed reports that Rohingya villagers had been \"secretly trained\" by Afghan and Pakistani fighters.\n\nBurmese state media reported on 22 June 2017 that three insurgents had been killed by security forces in a raid on an insurgent camp supposedly belonging to ARSA, as part of a two-day \"area clearance operation\" by the government. Authorities confiscated gunpowder, ski masks and wooden rifles used for training.\n\nIn July 2017, the Burmese government accused ARSA of murdering 34 to 44 civilians and kidnapping 22 others in reprisal attacks against those ARSA have perceived as government collaborators. ARSA denied the accusations.\n\nOn 25 August 2017, the group claimed responsibility for coordinated attacks on police posts and an attempted raid on an army base. The government announced a death toll of 77 Rohingya insurgents and 12 security forces in northern Maungdaw following the attacks. The government stated that they had attacked a police station in the Maungdaw District with a handmade bomb alongside the coordinated attacks on several police posts. ARSA claimed they were taking \"defensive actions\" in 25 different locations and accused government soldiers of raping and killing civilians. The group also claimed that Rathedaung had been under a blockade for more than two weeks, starving the Rohingya, and that the government forces were preparing to do the same in Maungdaw. Over 4,000 ethnic Rakhines fled their villages on 26 August 2017, as fighting between ARSA and the Tatmadaw escalated. ARSA was also blamed for the Kha Maung Seik massacre on the same day by the Myanmar Army.\n\nIn late August 2017, the Burmese government accused ARSA of killing 12 civilians, including Hindus and Muslims, some of whom were suspected by ARSA of being government informants. On 24 September 2017, Myanmar's military accused ARSA of killing 28 Hindus in Ye Baw Kya village in the previous month after they uncovered their bodies in a mass grave. ARSA released a statement on 28 August 2017, calling government allegations against it as \"baseless\" and stating that ARSA only seeks to defend Rohingyas and their rights. An ARSA spokesman also denied allegations that it was behind the killings and accused Buddhist nationalists of spreading lies to divide Hindus and Muslims. Bangladesh meanwhile has proposed joint military operations with Myanmar against ARSA.\n\nA one-month unilateral ceasefire was declared by ARSA on 9 September 2017, in an attempt to allow aid groups and humanitarian workers safe access into northern Rakhine State. In a statement, the group urged the government to lay down their arms and agree to their ceasefire, which would have been in effect from 10 September until 9 October (the one-year anniversary of the first attacks on Burmese security forces by ARSA). The government rejected the ceasefire, saying that they do not \"negotiate with terrorists\". Zaw Htay, the spokesperson for the State Counsellor's office, stated, \"We have no policy to negotiate with terrorists.\" ARSA responded on 7 October 2017 that they would respond to any peace initiatives proposed by Myanmar's government, but added that their one-month unilateral ceasefire was about to end. Despite the ceasefire ending on 9 October, the government stated that there were no signs of any new attacks.\n\nOn 9 November 2017, Myint Khyine, the Burmese secretary of the Immigration and Population Department, blamed the deaths of 18 village leaders in the last three months on ARSA in Muslim-majority Maungdaw and Buthidaung. The victims were village leaders who helped the Immigration and Population Department issue national verification cards to Rohingya residents.\n\nBangladesh's Minister of Road Transport and Bridges, Obaidul Quader, stated during a reception organised by the nation's deputy high commission in Kolkata that his country was investigating allegations that Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) had established links with ARSA.\n\nARSA claimed responsibility for an ambush carried out on 5 January 2018 in the village of Turaing, which reportedly injured six members of Myanmar's security forces and a civilian driver.\n\nIn late November 2018, Hindu community leaders in Myanmar accused ARSA of warning Hindu refugees in Bangladesh not to return to Rakhine State, after Burmese authorites called for their repatriation.\n\nARSA leader Ataullah abu Ammar Jununi stated in a video posted online, \"Our primary objective under ARSA is to liberate our people from dehumanising oppression perpetrated by all successive Burmese regimes\". The group has consistently insisted that it is an ethno-nationalist insurgent group and have denied being a jihadist group. ARSA has also denied allegations that they are an Islamist group, claiming they are secular and \"have no links to terrorist groups or foreign Islamists\". However, ARSA has attempted to obtain \"fatwas\" (religious rulings) from foreign Muslim clerics in the past, in order to legitimise their actions against the Burmese government.\n\nIn contrast to other insurgent groups in Myanmar, ARSA is not organised like a paramilitary. While other groups have military ranks and uniforms, most members of ARSA have appeared in videos wearing civilian clothes. The group is also ill-equipped; it was reported that during their attacks in Maungdaw District on 25 August, most of ARSA's fighters were armed with machetes and bamboo sticks. The local authorities responded with automatic machine gunfire, heavily outmatching ARSA's weapons.\n\nAnalysts have compared the tactics used by ARSA to those used by insurgent groups fighting in southern Thailand, namely crossing the border from one country to another to launch small scale attacks, then retreating back across the border to a community that shares a similar ethnic and/or religious background.\n\nThe Myanmar government alleged in a statement that ARSA killed four Muslims, including a village head and a government informant, on 25 August 2017. The next day on 26 August, another Muslim village head and a Hindu child were allegedly killed when ARSA insurgents fired at a monastery. In addition, six Hindus were stated to have been killed when the insurgents attacked a Hindu family. The Office of Myanmar's State Counsellor also blamed ARSA for the killings of five Daingnets on 26 August and seven Mro people on 31 August.\n\nThe mass-graves of 28 Hindus were found by Myanmar's security forces on 24 September 2017 near the village of Ye Baw Kya, with 17 more bodies found on the next day. Three relatives of the deceased said that masked men marched 100 Hindus away from the village before slitting their throats and pushing them into a hole. The relatives recognised some of the attackers as Rohingya Muslims, who told their victims they should not be in possession of official identity cards, which were issued by the government to Hindus but not to Muslims. After the discovery of the bodies, the Myanmar government claimed the victims were killed by ARSA insurgents. An ARSA spokesman denied the allegation that it was behind the killings and accused Buddhist nationalists of spreading lies to divide Hindus and Muslims.\n\nOn 9 November, Myint Khyine, the secretary of the Immigration and Population Department, blamed the deaths of 18 village leaders in the past three months in Maungdaw and Buthidaung, on ARSA. The village leaders helped the department to issue national verification cards to Rohingya villagers.\n\nOn 22 May 2018, Amnesty International released a report claiming it had evidence that ARSA rounded up and killed as many as 99 Hindu civilians on 25 August 2017, the same day that ARSA launched a massive attack against Myanmar's security forces. The report alleged that ARSA insurgents armed with guns and swords were responsible for at least one reported massacre of Hindus in northern Rakhine State. Survivors claimed that in the village of Kha Maung Seik, ARSA insurgents killed the men, whilst the women were kidnapped and forced to convert to Islam. It was also alleged in the report that statements given by Hindus immediately after the massacre were false, and that they were threatened by ARSA into blaming Rakhine Buddhists for the killings.\n\nARSA periodically releases press statements online, in documents and videos posted to its Twitter account. Unlike other insurgent groups in Myanmar, most of ARSA's written statements are exclusively in English, rather than in the group's native tongue (in this case, Rohingya).\n\nOn 17 October 2016, ARSA (then under the name Harakah al-Yaqin) released a press statement online. In a roughly five minute video, the group's leader, Ataullah abu Ammar Jununi, flanked by armed fighters reads from a sheet of paper:\n\nSix other videos were released online by the group between 10 and 27 October 2016.\n\nThe group released a press statement on 29 March 2017 under a new name, the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army (ARSA). The document included demands made to the Burmese government and a warning that if they were not met, there would be further attacks.\n\n"}
{"id": "50903538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50903538", "title": "Armenian Golgotha", "text": "Armenian Golgotha\n\nArmenian Golgotha () is a memoir written by Grigoris Balakian about his eyewitness account of the Armenian Genocide. The memoir was released in two volumes. Volume 1, about his life prior to and during the Armenian Genocide, was released in 1922. Volume 2, about his life as a fugitive after the Genocide, was released in 1959. Originally published in Armenian, the memoir was later published in various languages including an English translation by Peter Balakian, Balakian's great-nephew, with Aris Sevag.\n\nUpon the release of the English translation in 2009, many publications reviewed the account. \"The New Yorker\" referred to the account as \"a fascinating first-hand testimony to a monumental crime.\" Elie Wiesel, the author best known for the novel Night, referred to the account as \"heartbreaking\" because he believes that the memory presented by Balakian \"must remain a lesson for more than one generation\". \"The New Republic\" praised the account as \"a powerful and important book\" because \"it takes place as one of the key first-hand sources for understanding the Armenian Genocide\". Writing for \"The Washington Post\", Chris Bohjalian (a second-generation Armenian American) felt personally connected by understanding what happened to his great-grandparents. Bohjalian opined that Balakian's account was \"rich with evidence of the Turkish government's complicity and its leaders' premeditation.\" Bohjalian also hoped that the account would be widely read.\n"}
{"id": "31266337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31266337", "title": "Australian Aboriginal Astronomy Project", "text": "Australian Aboriginal Astronomy Project\n\nThe Australian Aboriginal Astronomy Project is a collaboration of academics, educators, and indigenous elders researching the astronomical traditions and knowledge of Indigenous Australians, commonly termed Australian Aboriginal astronomy. This research in cultural astronomy covers the disciplines of archaeoastronomy, ethnoastronomy, historical astronomy, geomythology, and Indigenous knowledge.\n\n"}
{"id": "200962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200962", "title": "Backstory", "text": "Backstory\n\nA backstory, background story, back-story, or background is a set of events invented for a plot, presented as preceding and leading up to that plot. It is a literary device of a narrative history all chronologically earlier than the narrative of primary interest. \n\nIn acting, it is the history of the character before the drama begins, and is created during the actor's preparation. \n\nIt is the history of characters and other elements that underlie the situation existing at the main narrative's start. Even a purely historical work selectively reveals backstory to the audience.\n\nAs a literary device, backstory is often employed to lend depth or believability to the main story. The usefulness of having a dramatic revelation was recognized by Aristotle, in \"Poetics\".\n\nBackstories are usually revealed, partially or in full, chronologically or otherwise, as the main narrative unfolds. However, a story creator may also create portions of a backstory or even an entire backstory that is solely for their own use.\n\nBackstory may be revealed by various means, including flashbacks, dialogue, direct narration, summary, recollection, and exposition. The original \"Star Wars\" movie and its first two sequels are examples of a work with a preconceived backstory, which was later released as the \"prequel\" second set of three movies.\n\nRecollection is the fiction-writing mode whereby a character calls something to mind, or remembers it. A character's memory plays a role for conveying backstory, as it allows a fiction-writer to bring forth information from earlier in the story or from before the beginning of the story. Although recollection is not widely recognized as a distinct fiction-writing mode, recollection is commonly used by authors of fiction.\n\nFor example, Orson Scott Card observes that \"If it's a memory the character could have called to mind at any point, having her think about it just in time to make a key decision may seem like an implausible coincidence . . . .\" Furthermore, \"If the memory is going to prompt a present decision, then the memory in turn must have been prompted by a recent event.\"\n\nIn a shared universe more than one author may shape the same backstory. The later creation of a backstory that conflicts with a previously written main story may require the adjustment device known as retroactive continuity, informally known as \"retcon\".\n\nActors may create their own backstories for characters, going beyond the sometimes meager information in a script. Filling in details helps an actor interpret the script and create fully imagined characters.\n\n"}
{"id": "359954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=359954", "title": "Book of Abraham", "text": "Book of Abraham\n\nThe Book of Abraham is a work produced in 1835 by Joseph Smith based, he said, on Egyptian papyri purchased from a traveling mummy exhibition. According to Smith, the book was \"a translation of some ancient records [...] purporting to be the writings of Abraham, while he was in Egypt, called the Book of Abraham, written by his own hand, upon papyrus\". Smith said the papyri describe Abraham's early life, his travels to Canaan and Egypt, and his vision of the cosmos and its creation.\n\nThe work was canonized in 1880 by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) as part of its Pearl of Great Price. It thus forms a doctrinal foundation for the LDS Church and Mormon fundamentalist denominations of the Latter Day Saint movement though is not considered a religious text by the Community of Christ. Other groups in the Latter Day Saint movement have differing opinions regarding the Book of Abraham, some rejecting and some accepting the text as inspired scripture. The book contains several doctrines that are unique to Mormonism such as the idea that God organized eternal elements to create the universe (instead of creating it \"ex nihilo\"), the exaltation of humanity, a pre-mortal existence, the first and second estates, and the plurality of gods.\n\nThe Book of Abraham papyri were thought to have been lost in the 1871 Great Chicago Fire. However, in 1966 several fragments of the papyri were found in the archives of the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York and in the LDS Church archives. They are now referred to as the Joseph Smith Papyri. Upon examination by professional Mormon and non-Mormon Egyptologists, these fragments were identified as Egyptian funerary texts, including the \"Breathing Permit of Hôr\" and the \"Book of the Dead\", among others. As a result, the Book of Abraham has been the source of significant controversy. Critics say it is a work of fiction created by Smith, while some Mormon apologists defend its authenticity.\n\nEleven mummies and several papyri were discovered near the ancient Egyptian city of Thebes by Antonio Lebolo between 1818 and 1822. Following Lebolo's death in 1830, the mummies and assorted objects were sent to New York with instructions that they should be sold in order to benefit the bereft heirs of Lebolo. Michael H. Chandler eventually purchased the mummies and artifacts and began displaying them, starting in Philadelphia. Over the next two years Chandler toured the eastern United States, displaying and selling some of the mummies as he traveled.\n\nOn June 30, 1835, Chandler exhibited his collection in Kirtland, Ohio. A promotional flyer created by Chandler states that the mummies \"may have lived in the days of Jacob, Moses, or David\". At the time, Kirtland was the home of the Latter Day Saints, led by Joseph Smith. Smithwho had claimed to have translated the Book of Mormon from golden plates that had been inscribed with \"reformed Egyptian\" texttook an immediate interest in the papyri and soon offered Chandler a preliminary translation of the scrolls. Smith claimed that the scrolls contained the writings of Abraham and Joseph, as well as the tale of an Egyptian princess named \"Katumin\". He wrote:\n\nSmith, Joseph Coe, and Simeon Andrews soon purchased the four mummies and at least five papyrus documents for $2,400 (). In October 1835 he began \"translating an alphabet to the Book of Abraham, and arranging a grammar of the Egyptian language as practiced by the ancients.\" In so doing, Smith worked closely with Cowdery and Phelps. The result of this attempted deciphering was a collection of documents and manuscripts now known as the Kirtland Egyptian papers. One of these manuscripts was a bound book titled simply \"Grammar & A[l]phabet of the Egyptian Language\", which contained Smith's interpretations of the Egyptian glyphs. The first part of the book focuses almost entirely on deciphering Egyptian characters, and the second part deals with a form of astronomy that was supposedly practiced by the ancient Egyptians. The majority of the pages in this tome were penned in July 1835. Most of the writing in the book was written not by Smith but rather by a scribe taking down what Smith said.\n\nThe \"Egyptian Alphabet\" manuscript is particularly important because it illustrates how Smith attempted to translate the papyri. First, the characters on the papyri were transcribed onto the left-hand side of the book. Next, a postulation as to what the symbols sounded like was devised. Finally, an English interpretation of the symbol was provided. Smith's subsequent translation of the papyri takes on the form of five \"degrees\" of interpretation, each degree representing a deeper and more complex level of interpretation.\n\nFollowing the supposed deciphering of the Egyptian alphabet in July and October of 1835, Smith ostensibly translated the majority of the Book of Abraham in November 1835, followed by some minor revisions in March 1842. In translating the book, Smith dictated, and Phelps, Warren Parrish, and Frederick G. Williams acted as scribes. The complete work was first published serially in the Latter Day Saint movement newspaper \"Times and Seasons\" in 1842, and was later canonized in 1880 by the LDS Church as part of its Pearl of Great Price.\n\nThe Book of Abraham tells a story of Abraham's life, travels to Canaan and Egypt, and a vision he received concerning the universe, a pre-mortal existence, and the creation of the world. The book has five chapters. Chapter1 recounts how Abraham's father Terah and his forefathers had turned to \"the god of Elkenah, and the god of Libnah, and the god of Mahmackrah, and the god of Korash, and the god of Pharaoh, king of Egypt\". Chaldean priests then sacrifice three virgins to pagan gods of stone and wood, and one priest attempts to sacrifice Abraham himself before an angel comes to his rescue. The text then examines the origins of Egypt and its government. Chapter2 includes information about God's covenant with Abraham and how it would be fulfilled; in this chapter, Abraham travels from Ur to Canaan, and then to Egypt. In Chapter3, Abraham learns about an Egyptian understanding of celestial objects via the Urim and Thummim. It is in this chapter that Abraham also learns about the eternal nature of spirits [...] pre-earth life, foreordination, the Creation, the choosing of a Redeemer, and the second estate of man.\" Chapters4 and5 contain expansions and modifications of the creation narrative in Genesis. In Chapter4, the gods (there are over 48 references to the plurality of the gods in Chapters4 and5) plan the creation of the earth and life on the earth. In Chapter5, the gods complete creation, and Adam names all living creatures.\n\nNearly half of the Book of Abraham shows a dependence on the King James Version of the Book of Genesis. According to H.Michael Marquardt, \"It seems clear that Smith had the Bible open to Genesis as he dictated this section [i.e., Chapter2] of the 'Book of Abraham.'\" Smith explained the similarities by reasoning that when Moses penned Genesis, he used the Book of Abraham as a guide, abridging and condensing where he saw fit. As such, since Moses was recalling Abraham's lifetime, his version was in the third person, whereas the Book of Abraham, being written by its titular author, was composed in the first person.\n\nThe Book of Abraham text is a source of some distinct Latter Day Saint doctrines, which Mormon author Randal S. Chase calls \"truths of the gospel of Jesus Christ that were previously unknown to Church members of Joseph Smith's day.\" Examples include the nature of the priesthood, an understanding of the cosmos, the exaltation of humanity, a pre-mortal existence, the first and second estates, and the plurality of gods.\n\nThe Book of Abraham expands upon the nature of the priesthood in the Latter Day Saint movement, and it is suggested in the work that those who are foreordained to the priesthood earned this right by valor or nobility in the pre-mortal life. In a similar vein, the Book explicitly denotes that Pharaoh was a descendant of Ham and thus \"of that lineage by which he could not have the right of Priesthood\". This passage is the only one found in any Mormon scripture that bars a particular lineage of people from holding the priesthood. Even though nothing in the Book of Abraham explicitly connects the line of Pharaoh and Ham to black Africans, this passage was used as a scriptural basis for withholding the priesthood from black individuals. Neither Joseph Smith nor Brigham Young used the Book of Abraham to justify the banning blacks from the priesthood. It wasn't until 1900 that George Q. Cannon, a member of the First Presidency, began using the story of Pharaoh as a scriptural basis for the ban. In 1912, the First Presidency responded to an inquiry about the priesthood ban by using the story of Pharaoh. By the early 1900s, it became the foundation of church policy in regards to the priesthood ban. The 2002 \"Doctrine and Covenants Student Manual\" points to Abraham 1:21-27 as the reasoning behind the not giving black people the priesthood until 1978.\n\nChapter 3 of the Book of Abraham describes a unique (and purportedly Egyptian) understanding of the hierarchy of heavenly bodies, each with different movements and measurements of time. In regard to this chapter, Randal S. Chase notes, \"With divine help, Abraham was able to gain greater comprehension of the order of the galaxies, stars, and planets than he could have obtained from earthly sources.\" At the pinnacle of the cosmos is the slowest-rotating body, Kolob, which, according to the text, is the star closest to where God lives. The Book of Abraham is the only work in the Latter Day Saint canon to mention the star Kolob. According to the Book:\nBased on this verse, the LDS Church claims that \"Kolob is the star nearest to the presence of God [and] the governing star in all the universe.\" Time moves slowly on the celestial body; one Kolob-day corresponds to 1,000 earth-years. The Church also notes: \"Kolob is also symbolic of Jesus Christ, the central figure in God's plan of salvation.\"\n\nThe Book of Abraham also explores pre-mortal existence. The LDS Church website explains: \"Life did not begin at birth, as is commonly believed. Prior to coming to earth, individuals existed as spirits.\" These spirits are eternal and of different intelligences. Prior to mortal existence, spirits exist in the \"first estate\". Once certain spirits (i.e., those who choose to follow the plan of salvation offered by God the Father of their own accord) take on a mortal form, they enter into what is called the \"second estate\". The doctrine of the second estate is explicitly named only in this book. The purpose of earthly life, therefore, is for humans to prepare for a meeting with God; the Church, citing notes: \"All who accept and obey the saving principles and ordinances of the gospel of Jesus Christ will receive eternal life, the greatest gift of God, and will have 'glory added upon their heads for ever and ever'.\"\n\nAlso notable is the Book of Abraham's insistence that there are many gods, and that \"the gods\" created the Earth, not \"ex nihilo\", but rather from pre-existing, eternal matter. This shift away from monotheism and towards polytheism occurred c.1838–39, when Smith was imprisoned in the Liberty Jail in Clay County, Missouri (this was after the majority of the Book of Abraham had been supposedly translated, but prior to its publication). Smith noted that there would be \"a time come in the which nothing shall be with held whither there be one god or many gods they shall be manifest all thrones and dominions, principalities and powers shall be revealed and set forth upon all who have indured valiently for the gospel of Jesus Christ\" and that all will be revealed \"according to that which was ordained in the midst of the councyl of the eternal God of all other Gods before this world was.\"\n\nThree images (facsimiles of vignettes on the papyri) and Joseph Smith's explanations of them were printed in the 1842 issues of the \"Times and Seasons\". These three illustrations were prepared by Smith and an engraver named Reuben Hedlock. The facsimiles and their respective explanations were later included with the text of the Pearl of Great Price in a re-engraved format. According to Smith's explanations, Facsimile No.1 portrays Abraham fastened to an altar, with the idolatrous priest of Elkenah attempting to sacrifice him. Facsimile No.2 contains representations of celestial objects, including the heavens and earth, fifteen other planets or stars, the sun and moon, the number 1,000 and God revealing the grand key-words of the holy priesthood. Facsimile No.3 portrays Abraham in the court of Pharaoh \"reasoning upon the principles of Astronomy\".\n\nThe Book of Abraham was canonized in 1880 by the LDS Church, and it remains a part of the larger scriptural work, The Pearl of Great Price.\n\nMore recently the LDS Church has softened its position on the Book of Abraham. An essay on the church's website, titled \"Translation and Historicity of the Book of Abraham,\" explains: \"None of the characters on the papyrus fragments mentioned Abraham’s name or any of the events recorded in the book of Abraham. Mormon and non-Mormon Egyptologists agree that the characters on the fragments do not match the translation given in the book of Abraham, though there is not unanimity, even among non-Mormon scholars, about the proper interpretation of the vignettes on these fragments.\"\n\nThe Community of Christ, formerly known as the Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints, does not accept the Book of Abraham as canonical, although it was referenced in early church publications.\n\nThe Strangite branch of the movement does not take an official position on the Book of Abraham. The branch notes, \"We know that 'The Book of Abraham' was published in an early periodical as a text 'purporting to be the writings of Abraham' with no indication of its translation process (see Times and Seasons, March 1, 1842), and therefore have no authorized position on it.\"\n\nThe Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints holds to the canonicity of the Book of Abraham.\n\nAfter Joseph Smith's death, the Egyptian artifacts were in the possession of his mother, Lucy Mack Smith, and she and her son William Smith continued to exhibit the four mummies and associated papyri to visitors. Two weeks after Lucy's death in May of 1856, Smith's widow, Emma Hale Smith Bidamon, her second husband Lewis C. Bidamon, and her son Joseph Smith III, sold \"four Egyptian mummies with the records with them\" to Abel Combs on May26, 1856. Combs later sold two of the mummies, along with some papyri, to the St. Louis Museum in 1856. Upon the closing of the St.Louis Museum, these artifacts were purchased by Joseph H. Wood and found their way to the Chicago Museum in about 1863, and were promptly put on display. The museum and all its contents were burned in 1871 during the Great Chicago Fire. Today it is presumed that the papyri that formed the basis for Facsimiles2 and3 were lost in the conflagration.\n\nAfter the fire, however, it was believed that all the sources for the book had been lost. Despite this belief, Abel Combs still owned several papyri fragments and two mummies. While the fate of the mummies is unknown, the fragments were passed to Combs' nurse Charlotte Benecke Weaver, who gave them to her daughter, Alice Heusser. In 1918 Heusser approached the New York Metropolitan Museum of Art (MMA) about purchasing the items; at the time, the museum curators were not interested, but in 1947 they changed their mind, and the museum bought the papyri from Heusser's widower husband, Edward. In the 1960s the MMA decided to raise money by selling some of its items which were considered \"less unique\". Among these were the papyri that Heusser had sold to the museum several decades earlier. In May of 1966, Aziz S. Atiya, a coptic scholar from the University of Utah, was looking through the MMA's collection when he came across the Heusser fragments; upon examining them, he recognized one as the vignette known as Facsmile1 from The Pearl of Great Price. He informed LDS Church leaders, and several months later, on November27, 1967, the LDS Church was able to procure the fragments, and according to Henry G. Fischer, curator of the Egyptian Collection at the MMA, an anonymous donation to the MMA made it possible for the LDS Church to acquire the papyri. The subsequent transfer included eleven pieces of papyri, including the original of Facsimile1.\n\nThree of these fragments were designated Joseph Smith Papyrus (JSP) I, X, and XI. Other fragments, designated JSPII, IV, V, VI, VII, and VIII, are thought by critics to be the Book of Joseph to which Smith had referred. Egyptologist John A. Wilson stated that the recovered fragments indicated the existence of at least six to eight separate documents. The twelfth fragment was discovered in the LDS Church Historian's office and was dubbed the \"Church Historian's Fragment\". Disclosed by the church in 1968, the fragment was designated JSPIX. Although there is some debate about how much of the papyrus collection is missing, there is broad agreement that the recovered papyri are portions of Smith's original purchase, partly based on the fact that they were pasted onto paper which had \"drawings of a temple and maps of the Kirtland, Ohio area\" on the back, as well as the fact that they were accompanied by an affidavit by Emma Smith stating that they had been in the possession of Joseph Smith.\n\nSince its publication in 1842, the Book of Abraham has been a source of controversy. Non-Mormon Egyptologists, beginning in the late 19th century, have disagreed with Joseph Smith's explanations of the facsimiles. They have also asserted that damaged portions of the papyri have been reconstructed incorrectly. In 1912, a letter about the Book of Abraham was published by Arthur Cruttenden Mace, Assistant Curator in the Department of Egyptian Art in New York's Metropolitan Museum of Art. He wrote:\n\nI return herewith, under separate cover, the 'Pearl of Great Price.' The 'Book of Abraham,' it is hardly necessary to say, is a pure fabrication. Cuts 1 and 3 are inaccurate copies of well known scenes on funeral papyri, and cut 2 is a copy of one of the magical discs which in the late Egyptian period were placed under the heads of mummies. There were about forty of these latter known in museums and they are all very similar in character. Joseph Smith's interpretation of these cuts is a farrago of nonsense from beginning to end. Egyptian characters can now be read almost as easily as Greek, and five minutes' study in an Egyptian gallery of any museum should be enough to convince any educated man of the clumsiness of the imposture.\nThe controversy intensified in the late 1960s when portions of the Joseph Smith Papyri were located. The translation of the papyri by both Mormon and non-Mormon Egyptologists does not match the text of the Book of Abraham as purportedly translated by Joseph Smith. Indeed, the transliterated text from the recovered papyri and facsimiles published in the Book of Abraham contain no direct references, either historical or textual, to Abraham, and Abraham's name does not appear anywhere in the papyri or the facsimiles. Edward Ashment notes, \"The sign that Smith identified with Abraham [...] is nothing more than the hieratic version of [...] a 'w' in Egyptian. It has no phonetic or semantic relationship to [Smith's] 'Ah-broam.'\" University of Chicago Egyptologist Robert K. Ritner concluded in 2014 that the source of the Book of Abraham \"is the 'Breathing Permit of Hôr,' misunderstood and mistranslated by Joseph Smith\", and that the other papyri are common Egyptian funerary documents like the Book of the Dead. \n\nOriginal manuscripts of the Book of Abraham, microfilmed in 1966 by Jerald Tanner, show portions of the Joseph Smith Papyri and their purported translations into the Book of Abraham. Ritner concludes, contrary to the LDS position, due to the microfilms being published prior to the rediscovery of the Joseph Smith Papyri, that \"it is not true that 'no eyewitness account of the translation survives'\", that the Book of Abraham is \"confirmed as a perhaps well-meaning, but erroneous invention by Joseph Smith\", and \"despite its inauthenticity as a genuine historical narrative, the Book of Abraham remains a valuable witness to early American religious history and to the recourse to ancient texts as sources of modern religious faith and speculation\".\n\nAs noted above, a second untranslated work was identified by Joseph Smith after scrutinizing the original papyri. He said that one scroll contained \"the writings of Joseph of Egypt\". Based on descriptions by Oliver Cowdery, some, including Charles M. Larson, believe that the fragments Joseph Smith Papyri II, IV, V, VI, VII, and VIII are the source of this work.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2421056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2421056", "title": "Bronze Age sword", "text": "Bronze Age sword\n\nBronze Age swords appeared from around the 17th century BC, in the Black Sea region and the Aegean, as a further development of the dagger. They were replaced by iron swords during the early part of the 1st millennium BC.\n\nFrom an early time the swords reached lengths in excess of 100 cm. The technology to produce blades of such lengths appears to have been developed in the Aegean, using alloys of copper and tin or arsenic, around 1700 BC. Bronze Age swords were typically not longer than 80 cm; weapons significantly shorter than 60 cm are variously categorized as \"short swords\" or daggers. Before about 1400 BC swords remained mostly limited to the Aegean and southeastern Europe, but they became more widespread in the final centuries of the 2nd millennium BC, to Central Europe and Britain, to the Near East, Central Asia, Northern India and to China.\n\nBefore bronze, stone (such as flint and obsidian) was used as the primary material for edged cutting tools and weapons. Stone, however, is too brittle for long, thin implements such as swords. With the introduction of copper, and subsequently bronze, knives could be made longer, leading to the sword.\n\nThus, the development of the sword from the dagger was gradual, and in 2004 the first \"swords\" were claimed for the Early Bronze Age (c. 33rd to 31st centuries), based on finds at Arslantepe by Marcella Frangipane, professor of Prehistory and Protohistory of the Near and Middle East at Sapienza University of Rome. A cache of nine swords and daggers was found; they are made of arsenic-copper alloy. Among them, three swords were beautifully inlaid with silver.\n\nThese are the weapons of a total length of 45 to 60 cm which could be described as either short swords or long daggers. Some other similar swords have been found in Turkey, and are described by Thomas Zimmermann.\n\nThe sword remained extremely rare for another millennium, and became more widespread only with the closing of the 3rd millennium. The \"swords\" of this later period can still readily be interpreted as daggers, as with the copper specimen from Naxos (dated roughly 2800 to 2300 BC), with a length of just below 36 cm, but individual specimens of the Cycladic \"copper swords\" of the period around 2300 reach a length up to 60 cm. The first weapons that can unambiguously be classified as swords are those found in Minoan Crete, dated to about 1700 BC, which reach lengths of more than 100 cm. These are the \"type A\" swords of the Aegean Bronze Age.\n\nThe Minoan and Mycenaean (Middle to Late Aegean Bronze Age) swords are classified in types labeled A to H following Sandars (1961, 1963), the \"Sandars typology\".\nTypes A and B (\"Tab-tang\") are the earliest from about the 17th to 16th centuries, types C (\"Horned swords\") and D (\"Cross swords\") from the 15th century, types E and F (\"T-hilt swords\") from the 13th and 12th.\nThe 13th to 12th centuries also see a revival of the \"Horned\" type, classified as types G and H. Type H swords are associated with the Sea Peoples and were found in Anatolia (Pergamon) and Greece.\nContemporary with types E to H is the so-called Naue II type, imported from south-eastern Europe.\n\nOne of the most important, and longest-lasting, types of prehistoric European swords was the Naue II type, named for Julius Naue who first described them and also known as \"Griffzungenschwert\" or \"grip-tongue sword\". It first appears in c. the 13th century BC in Northern Italy (or a general Urnfield background), and survived well into the Iron Age, with a life-span of about seven centuries, until the 6th century BC. During its lifetime the basic design was maintained, although the material changed from bronze to iron. Naue II swords were exported from Europe to the Aegean, and as far afield as Ugarit, beginning about 1200 BC, i.e. just a few decades before the final collapse of the palace cultures in the Bronze Age collapse. Naue II swords could be as long as 85 cm, but most specimens fall into the 60 to 70 cm range.\n\nSwords from the Nordic Bronze Age appear from ca. the 13th century BC, often showing characteristic spiral patterns. The early Nordic swords are also comparatively short; a specimen discovered in 1912 near Bragby, Uppland, Sweden, dated to about 1800 to 1500 BC, was just over 60 cm long. This sword was, however, classified as of the Hajdúsámson-Apa type, and was presumably imported. The Vreta Kloster sword discovered in 1897 (dated 1600 to 1500 BC) has a blade length (the hilt is missing) of 46 cm.\n\nA typical variant for European swords is the leaf shaped blade, which was most common in North-West Europe at the end of the Bronze Age, on the British Isles in particular.\nThe carp's tongue sword is a type of bronze sword that was common to Western Europe during ca. the 9th to 8th centuries BC. The blade of the carp's tongue sword was wide and parallel for most of its length but the final third narrowed into a thin tip intended for thrusting. The design was probably developed in north-western France, and combined the broad blade useful for slashing with a thinner, elongated tip suitable for thrusting. Its advantages saw its adoption across Atlantic Europe. In Britain, the metalwork in the south east derived its name from this sword: the Carp's Tongue complex. Notable examples of this type were part of the Isleham Hoard.\n\nThe Bronze Age style sword and construction methods died out at the end of the early Iron Age (Hallstatt D)), around 600-500 BC, when swords are once again replaced by daggers in most of Europe. An exception is the Xiphos from Greece, the development of which continued for several more centuries.\nThe antenna sword, named for the pair of ornaments suggesting antennae on its hilt, is a type of the Late Bronze Age, continued in early iron swords of the East Hallstatt and Italy region.\n\nSword production in China is attested from the Bronze Age Shang Dynasty, from roughly 1200 BC. The technology for bronze swords reached its high point during the Warring States period and Qin Dynasty (221 BC – 207 BC). Amongst the Warring States period swords, some unique technologies were used, such as casting high-tin edges over softer, lower-tin cores, or the application of diamond shaped patterns on the blade (see the sword of Gou Jian). Also unique for Chinese bronzes is the consistent use of high-tin bronze (17-21% tin), which is very hard and breaks under excess stress, whereas other cultures preferred lower tin bronze (usually 10%), which bends instead. China continued to make both iron and bronze swords longer than any other region; iron completely replaced bronze only in the early Han Dynasty.\n\nSwords have been recovered in archaeological findings of the Ochre Coloured Pottery culture throughout the Ganges-Yamuna Doab region of India, commonly made of copper, but in some instances made of bronze. Diverse specimens have been discovered in Fatehgarh, where there are several varieties of hilt. These swords have been variously dated to periods between 1700-1400 BC, but were probably used more extensively during 1200-600 BC (Painted Grey Ware culture, Iron Age India).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12917227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12917227", "title": "Chaa Creek", "text": "Chaa Creek\n\nChaa Creek is a tributary of the Macal River in the Cayo District in western Belize. One of the official gauging stations of the Macal is located near the confluence with Chaa Creek. \n\nThere are Maya ruins that remain largely unexcavated in the Chaa Creek catchment basin; certain early research was conducted on the archaeology at Chaa Creek in 1997 by Harvard University. Significant pottery finds and other artifacts have been recovered at the Chaa Creek site, which is posited to be a satellite site of Xunantunich.\n\nThe Chaa Creek Nature Reserve is a noted area for birdwatching. Over 300 species of birds have been sighted there.\n\nThe underlying geology of this watershed can be characterised as limestone associations of foothills of the Maya Mountains.\n\n"}
{"id": "7964837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7964837", "title": "Clemencia Rodriguez", "text": "Clemencia Rodriguez\n\nClemencia Rodriguez is a Colombian US-based media and communication scholar recognized for her role in establishing and promoting the field of alternative media studies in English language media studies, notably through her work on 'citizens' media,' a term she coined in her 2001 book \"Fissures in the Mediascape\" and through co-founding and facilitating OURMedia/NUESTROSMedios, a global network of researchers and practitioners of alternative media, community media and citizens' media, currently the biggest network of its kind with over 500 members in over 40 countries.\n\nDr. Rodriguez has conducted research since 1984 on citizens’ media in different international contexts including Nicaragua, Colombia, Spain, Chile, and among Latino communities in the United States. Her current research explores the role(s) of community radio and audiovisual initiatives in regions of armed conflict in Colombia. Her studies focus on the AREDMAG network of community radio stations in Magdalena Medio; the audiovisual school and community radio station (Radio Andaqui) in Belen de los Andaquies, Caqueta; and the Colectivo de Comunicacion de Montes de Maria.\n\nIn 2001, she initiated OURMedia/NUESTROSMedios with Chris Atton, Nick Couldry and John DH Downing and until 2003 was a key organizer of its yearly conferences.\n\n“Various media technologies provide different ways of 'communicating' both in the kinds of information they present and in the ways we experience it”. Clemencia Rodriguez recognises a universal cultural change within the mediascape whereby media users have become media producers. She defines citizens' media as a concept 'that implies a collective embracing of new media and interaction, in a way that contests social codes, legitimised identities and institutionalised social relations, through a means of empowering the community'. Moving away from the original concept of media whereby “communication is sent from one place and received in many places by a large audience”, Citizens’ media’ encourages a two-way media process, reflecting participatory democracy and greater media access through networking, and broadcasting from citizen to citizen.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58120820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58120820", "title": "Dinesh Wadiwel", "text": "Dinesh Wadiwel\n\nDinesh Joseph Wadiwel is an Australian social and political theorist who is presently a Senior Lecturer in Human Rights and Socio-Legal Studies at the University of Sydney. His work addresses critical animal studies, the rights of disabled people, and theoretical perspectives on violence.\n\nWadiwel worked for 15 years in the third sector, including with the Council of Social Service of New South Wales. He completed his doctorate in Political Philosophy and Cultural Studies at the University of Western Sydney in 2006. He subsequently moved to the University of Sydney, where he is now a senior lecturer.\n\nWadiwel is the author of the 2015 monograph \"The War Against Animals\", published by Brill. In the book, he argues that humans are in a state of (literal) war with animals. The primary philosophical influence is the work of Michel Foucault, though other important influences include Giorgio Agamben, Roberto Esposito, and Achille Mbembe. For Wadiwel, mainstream approaches to animal ethics (including the classic works of Peter Singer and Tom Regan, and more recent works of Donna Haraway as well as those of Sue Donaldson and Will Kymlicka) are insufficient for failing to appreciate the near-complete internalisation of a human belief in sovereignty over animals; indeed, he argues that the works reinforce them. Drawing upon Foucauldian notions of biopower, governmentality, and counter-conduct, Wadiwel argues for the existence of, and examines the detail of, the war against animals. He argues that capitalism is complicit in the war, and that the commodification of animals is an inherently violent act. Wadiwel calls for resistance against the war. This resistance includes veganism and other pro-animal practices, but also a truce, even if only (initially) for a day.\n\nWadiwel was a part of The Human Animal Research Network Editorial Collective that edited the 2015 Sydney University Press collection \"Animals in the Anthropocene: Critical Perspectives on Non-human Futures\". He also co-edited the 2016 collection \"Foucault and Animals\" with Matthew Chrulew.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "6900115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6900115", "title": "European Journal of Political Theory", "text": "European Journal of Political Theory\n\nThe European Journal of Political Theory is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal that covers the field of political theory and philosophy. The editors-in-chief are Enzo Rossi (University of Amsterdam) and Matt Sleat (University of Sheffield). It was established 2002 and is published by Sage Publications.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in Current Contents/Social and Behavioral Sciences, Scopus, and Worldwide Political Science Abstracts.\n"}
{"id": "10865355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10865355", "title": "Fine press", "text": "Fine press\n\nFine press printing and publishing comprises historical and contemporary printers and publishers publishing books and other printed matter of exceptional intrinsic quality and artistic taste, including both commercial and private presses. Their dedication to fine printing distinguishes them from other small presses. Fine press publications are often published in limited editions, that are swiftly bought up by book collectors and libraries.\n\nAs part of the Art Nouveau movement in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, the Englishman William Morris wanted to hearken back to a golden age of printing, printmaking, and publishing. One of the books they published was the Kelmscott Chaucer. Soon, fine presses began to spring up in the United States as well. The most prominent was the Roycroft Press. Los Angeles was a center of the fine press movement, particularly centered on the Ward Ritchie press\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5352738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5352738", "title": "Finnish studies", "text": "Finnish studies\n\nFinnish studies is a research area which is part of humanities and social sciences, and usually studies Finnish language, Finnish culture and Finnish history.\n\nIn Canada there are Finnish studies activities in the University of Toronto, and Lakehead University in Thunder Bay. Toronto Chair is occupied by one individual at a time as Lakehead has a rotating position for scholars from Finland. In the United States Finnish studies are available at the Columbia University (New York), at the University of Washington (Seattle), University of Wisconsin (Madison), University of Minnesota (Minneapolis) and at Indiana University (Bloomington). In addition, some Finnish language and culture courses are offered at Finlandia University (Hancock), at University of California (Berkeley), and at the University of Oregon (Eugene).\n\nThe University of Minnesota has held the Government of Finland and David and Nancy Speer Visiting Professorship in Finnish Studies from 1989. The chair was established in with the joint efforts of the Government of Finland, University of Minnesota, and Mr. David Speer. In the early 1990s the chair changed into visiting professorship. The following persons have been visiting in the position in the previous years.\n\n\nFull academic years:\n\n\nVisiting professors on the internet:\n\n"}
{"id": "24168555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24168555", "title": "Fireman's rule", "text": "Fireman's rule\n\nThe fireman's rule (firefighter's rule) also known as the professional rescuers rule is a common law or statutory restriction on tort actions by public safety officials. In general, the fireman's rule bars lawsuits by police officers, firefighters, and in some jurisdictions all professional rescuers from collecting on damages that occur in the course of their duties even in cases of clear negligence by other parties.\n\nAt the most basic, the fireman's rule is based on the notion that public safety officers willingly assume the risks inherent in their duties. Since the very purpose of public safety officers is to confront danger, the public is not liable for injuries incurred while carrying out that function. While the rule is named after the risks and actions by firemen, the relationship between danger and duties is similar in all public safety officers, and other professional rescuers.\n\nThe fireman's rule has been heavily criticized for preventing police officers from suing criminals who intentionally lead them on high-speed car chases. In response to one such case, the California State Legislature enacted California Civil Code Section 1714.9 in 1982, which overrides the fireman's rule where the tortious conduct occurred after the defendant knew or should have known of the plaintiff's presence. In Minnesota peace officers are exempted from the fireman's rule by statute.§ M.S. 604.06\n\nIn certain states, such as Pennsylvania, the courts have not always applied the fireman's rule. In 1995, The Pennsylvania Superior Court ruled that in regards to landowners, firefighters are viewed as \"licensees,\" and are therefore owed the same duty of care that any citizen who is permitted to be on the property would receive. In earlier decisions, such as MULL v. KERSTETTER 373 Pa.Super. 228 (1988), in which a volunteer firefighter was injured after falling into an unmarked and unprotected window well, the court ruled that a police officer entering land in his or her official capacity and in response to a call for assistance is generally considered a licensee. Therefore, the landowner is responsible for warning the licensee of any dangerous hidden conditions on the premises.\n\n"}
{"id": "23179310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23179310", "title": "Fixed book price agreement", "text": "Fixed book price agreement\n\nA fixed book price agreement (FBPA) is a form of resale price maintenance applied to books. It commonly takes the form of an agreement between publishers and booksellers which set the prices at which books were to be sold to the public. An example of an FBPA was the former Net Book Agreement in the United Kingdom. \n\nThe key idea of an FBPA is to promote non-price competition between booksellers in order to promote the sale of little-known, difficult or otherwise culturally interesting books rather than catering only to blockbuster readers. To do so, an FBPA is deemed to ensure that the booksellers that provide the corresponding presale services are able to recoup their higher costs with a guaranteed margin on blockbusters.\n\nA related case is the existence of a fixed book price law (FBPL), where the book prices are kept fixed by law. An example of an FBPL is the current Lang Law in France. \n\nAn FBPA/FBPL, with various provisos, has existed in some developed countries since the beginning of the twentieth century. It remains in force in roughly half the countries of the European Union as well as in some other countries.\n\nThe core idea of the FBP (either by agreement or law) is that a dense network of well-stocked, high quality bookshops is a necessary condition for the publication of a large variety of books, large variety itself deemed desirable for the cultural life of a country . Such bookshops have additional costs that are not borne by discounters, who just stock their shelves with the current blockbusters. Since the latter represent a large proportion of book sales, price competition between high-quality bookshops and discounters reduces bookshops' profitability. \n\nThe FBP allows the publisher to mitigate this competition and thereby guarantees a sufficient margin for high-quality bookshops to operate.\n\nHistorically, most countries with a significant book industry have known an FBPA since the 19th century. The development of competition policy in the 1970s led to a wave of repeals of those agreements (Australia 1972, Sweden 1974, UK 1995) at a time when any form of resale price maintenance was seen with much suspicion. Conversely, other countries (Spain 1975, Greece 1997, Italy 2005) enacted laws making the FBP mandatory.\n\nThe following table gives an overview of the prevalence of FBP in rich countries (sources: European Booksellers Federation and ).\n\nThe assessment of the FBP is a controversial one. On the one hand, most economists ( for an overview, for a specific discussion) are skeptical of the cultural merits of the FBP and underline its distorting effect. On the other hand, other economists ( on the French case, on the German case) and the book industry argue that the FBP is the only tool that allows difficult, high-brow, and culturally significant books to be published. Therefore, they say, the distortion should account for the much larger cultural externalities of meaningful cultural works. As put it,\n\nThe cultural merits ascribed to such agreements have almost reached mythical proportions. No public debate in Europe on the cultural value of books is complete without a discussion of the FBP.\n\nSeveral industrial organization frameworks can be applied to assess the consequences of the FBP. \n\nThe most commonly cited result is . This paper states that when two retailer can engage on tangible presale services, that is can undertake an unobservable costly effort that increases the demand for both of them (advertisement, sessions with authors, thematic weeks), each one has an incentive to free-ride on the other retailer's effort by setting its price slightly below his competitor (which cannot correspondingly cut his price, since he supports the cost of a higher level of effort). This leads to a suboptimal (too low, from the publisher's point of view) level of aggregate effort. By cancelling the possibility of price competition, a FBP makes impossible this kind of opportunistic behaviour and induces both retailers to compete in services.\n\nAccording to , the main idea of FBP (keeping best seller prices high in order to subsidize the sale of less popular books) is unconvincing for several reasons: \n\n\n and provide empirical assessments of FBP comparing countries with and without a FBP (Nordic countries for the former, France and the UK for the latter). According to these authors, the two main effects of a repeal of a FBP is a displacement of small independent bookstores by larger chain outlets and a decrease in the price of bestsellers, compensated by an increase of the price of all other books.\n\nAccording to , the ending of the FBPA in the UK (1995) did not lead to a sharp decrease of the number of bookshops, rather to a displacement of small, independent bookshops by big-chain outlets. He notices however that the former stayed in place where a quality-sensitive demand existed, and that competition between bookshops spurred a reduction of operational costs thanks to better logistics and collection management (an argument also found in ). In a counterfactual manner, shows that in France, the FBP helped to maintain a dense network of independent bookshops, reined in the deployment of chain bookstores and spurred supermarkets to boost their offer of books. Fishwick also shows that while the number of published titles increases as fast as in France, there is no sign of an overall increase of book prices. He shows however that this stability hides a strong distributive effect. Comparison with France show that the FBP leads to an increase of the price of bestsellers relative to non-FBP markets and a decrease of low-selling or long-selling books. He argues that the assessment of this effect is difficult, since the relation between the (un)popularity of a book and its cultural value is unclear, whereas consumers of low-selling books are, on average, wealthier than consumers of bestsellers (making a FBP a subsidy of wealthier people by poorer people).\n\nhttp://eibf-booksellers.org/sites/default/files/press_release/2014-05-26/ipa_report_fbp_pdf_56196.pdf\n"}
{"id": "24183569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24183569", "title": "Formal Semantics in Moscow", "text": "Formal Semantics in Moscow\n\nFormal Semantics in Moscow (FSiM) is an annual academic conference devoted to the formal semantics and pragmatics of natural language.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45363962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45363962", "title": "Founderism", "text": "Founderism\n\nFounderism (being a Founderist) is an intellectual outlook that has a strong \"Reverence for the founders\" of a state. The term is viewed as a pejorative epithet, accusing those so labeled as having a worldview that sacrifices historic accuracy for turning the \"Founding into a fetish\".\n\nThe antonym \"anti-founderism\" is applied to those who \"seem convinced that there was something profoundly wrong with the origins\" of the state.\n\n"}
{"id": "22915983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22915983", "title": "Free Scotland Party", "text": "Free Scotland Party\n\nThe Free Scotland Party was a minor political party in Scotland that stood for an independent Scotland, independent of both the United Kingdom and the European Union.\n\nThe party was founded by Brian Nugent, from Shetland, after he left the Scottish National Party due to disagreements over Europe. The party holds up Norway, a non-EU country, as an example for Scotland.\n\nThe party contested three constituencies in the 2005 general election campaigning on the issue of the fishing industry in Scotland. Maitland Kelly received 183 votes (0.4%) in Ochil and South Perthshire, Nugent received 176 votes (1.0%) in Orkney and Shetland, and Dallas Carter received 384 votes (1.0%) in Motherwell & Wishaw.\n\nThe party also stood in the Scottish Parliament election, 2007, gaining 664 votes (0.24%) in the Mid Scotland and Fife electoral region. Jim Fairlie, a former deputy leader of the SNP and the party's finance spokesman, received 575 votes (1.65%) in Perth.\n\n"}
{"id": "14810107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14810107", "title": "French–Eversole feud", "text": "French–Eversole feud\n\nThe French–Eversole feud occurred primarily from 1887–1894. The events occurred in the mountains of southeastern Kentucky and were mainly situated in Hazard, Perry County. The two instigators of this feud were Joseph C. Eversole and Benjamin Fulton French, who were both merchants and lawyers and at one time were friendly. The war or Feud was a media sensation and was covered by many US papers at the time. The First report was in the Louisville Courier-Journal on June 30, 1886 on Page 1. A listing of the various media reports is included at the end of this article. Ultimately, those media reports became the basis for various books written about the French-Eversole War.\n\nBased on a report by General Sam Hill to Governor Simon Bolivar Buckner, the feud killed more than 20 men. Other historians exaggerated the numbers killed to about 74 deaths attributed to the feud.\n\nJacob Eversole (1760-1840) was one of the first settlers of the area moving from Lancaster County, PA. Originally spelled, 'Ebersohl', six brothers migrated from Europe to Pennsylvania: Abraham, Johannes, Peter, Yost, Carl and Jacob. One of Yost Ebersohl's son's Jacob, moved from Pennsylvania to Eastern Kentucky. When Perry County was created on November 2, 1820 by 'General' Elijah H. Combs he named the small group of streets Hazard as its seat. Both the County and the Town are named after General Oliver Hazard Perry, a hero of the War of 1812. The small town had only one road, scattered buildings, and only a few boards to walk on over the muddy streets. It became the trading center of the county with a population of around 100 during the feud.\n\nJacob Eversole's (1760-1840) son 'Woolery' G. Eversole married the daughter of Jesse Cornett (1761-1836) another founding family of Perry County, Kentucky. Woolery and Lucy (Cornett) Eversole had several children, one of which was Maj. John C. Eversole, USA who lead portions of the 14th Kentucky Cavalry and was assassinated during the Civil War. His son, Joseph C. Eversole was the leader of the Eversole Clan in the French Eversole Feud.\n\nEversole and French were very similar men. They were both lawyers, merchants, and very well off. Joseph Eversole married a woman from another prominent Perry County family, Susan Combs. Susan was the daughter of Judge Josiah Henry Combs, one of the members of the Eversole clan. Susan's Great-grandfather was Elijah H. Combs who founded Hazard. French, however, was not a Kentuckian. He hailed from Tennessee but married a Kentuckian, Susan Lewis and thereby was related to influential families in Breathitt, Leslie and other Counties. Both Joseph C. Eversole and Benjamin Fulton French had competing mercantile stores in Hazard.\n\nThere are two supposed causes of the feud. One is romanticized and probably not true though it is the popular and much more interesting cause. The other is a definite and more reasonable cause for the start of the feud.\n\nCAUSE 1 ('On Account of a Woman'): The popular story for the cause of the feud is a disagreement over a woman. As the story goes a clerk that worked in French's mercantile store was madly in love. One day the clerk saw the woman with Fulton French and he became jealous. He went to the Joseph C. Eversole and told him that he had heard French say he sought to take Joe's life. When Joe questioned the clerk about the allegations he sat silent. Eversole warned him that he was taking his silence as fact that the allegations were true. Initially, Joe Eversole did not believe the clerk. He asked him to sign a sworn affidavit attesting to the plan to murder him. This is what caused Eversole to believe that he needed protection and he reason for begin to gather an armed clan around him. French followed suit closely after and a war was unavoidable. It is believed that this was the clerk's revenge on Fulton French.\n\nCause 2 ('Coal rights'): The more likely story (or a combination of the two) is that the two were businessmen and they came at odds with each other. After the civil war, companies began buying huge amounts of land for the coal underneath the mountains. French worked for one of these companies that was buying coal rights from illiterate farmers while Eversole was a local merchant and had loyalty to long-time citizens (most of whom he was related to). French was worried about getting the land at bottom dollar for the large companies he represented. Eversole saw this practice as cheating illiterate farmers. He began to travel the County and tell farmers that Fulton French was going to try and cheat them with low prices for 'coal rights'. French (as a non-native) has no such considerations regarding the mountain people of Eastern Kentucky. The resentment grew until they eventually raised their armies, which French reportedly paid $2 – $2.50 a day for his hired guns.\n\nAmbush was the favored tactic of this feud rather than standard warfare. It was safer for the concealed perpetrators and responsibility for the attacks was more difficult to determine. Many people lived, justifiably, in fear.\n\nThe Death of Silas Gayheart: The first death of the feud was one of French's friends, Silas Gayheart. A dozen white men and a couple of African-Americans reportedly ambushed and killed Gayheart. The Eversoles denied the killing and many believed it was the cause of a different dispute that Gayheart had. French, however, blamed the Eversole clan.\n\nOne night French left Hazard, possibly to gather more men to attack Eversole. Once Eversole discovered this, he withdrew his forces and left a few men in town. He waited for French to attack the town so he could make a surprise attack of his own. Neither was fooled by these tactical maneuvers and blood was spared. When French finally reentered the town in June 1887 Eversole set out to meet him. The two sides had a shootout in town; only one of French's men was wounded. After a day of shooting at each other, French's forces withdrew.\n\nThis type of cat and mouse scuffle happened throughout the summer of 1887. The cost of paying these men day in and day out began taking their tolls on the businessmen as they almost were bankrupt (or at least were out of cash). Both sides owned most of the large land tracts in Perry County. Both sides agreed to a meeting at Big Creek and a peace was formulated. The written agreements were signed and witnessed. The agreement stated that they could return home, would disband their armies, and surrender their guns. The grudge was still there and, soon after their funds were replenished, French accused Eversole of taking his guns back from Judge Josiah Combs, Eversole's father-in-law. Eversole claimed that French hadn't witnessed that, that he hadn't disbanded his army, and that the deal only called for a partial surrender of arms. The short lived peace crumbled.\n\nThe murder of William 'Bill' Gambriel (AKA William 'Bill' G. Gambrel): The next major incident occurred on September 15, 1887. Joe Eversole and Bill Gambriel, a French supporter and itinerate preacher, began arguing in the street in Hazard. This formed into a scuffle or fist fight. Some of Eversole's men shot at Gambriel and wounded him. While attempting to escape, another man, reportedly an officer, shot him. As Gambriel turned away from his attacker, Joe Eversole pulled his pistol out and shot Gambriel in the head, instantly killing him. One man was tried for the murder. The trial resulted in a hung jury the first time and an acquittal in the second trial. Joe Eversole was not tried because witnesses said that Silas had attacked Joe first.\n\nThe Assassination of Joseph C. Eversole: There was a relative calm throughout the winter until Sunday, April 15, 1888. Joe Eversole, Nick Combs, his brother-in-law, and Judge Josiah Combs were on their way to Hyden for the regular term of the circuit court, of which Joe and Josiah had been members for years. Judge Combs was riding slightly ahead of Joe and Nick with policeman Tom Hollifield, who was transporting a prisoner (Mary Jones) to Hyden, when Josiah heard the gunfire. Josiah turned and saw Joe and Nick fall to the ground. Joe almost instantly died. To read more graphic details of the assassination of Joseph C. Eversole, see his Wikipedia page. After investigating, it appeared the attackers had been camping for days waiting on them. French was accused and indicted but left town with a posse in fear of retaliation. No one was ever convicted of the murders, but seven years later, 'Bad Tom' Smith, a paid French enforcer, would confess while standing on the gallows. He stated that he and Joseph Adkins committed the murders under orders from French.\n\nJohn Campbell takes Over: After Joe Eversole's death, John Campbell took over the war against French. Campbell surrounded the town with guards, had men patrol the streets, and took on scouting the countryside. He feared a French attack so he only let people into town who knew the password. This was his undoing however. One night Campbell found a sleeping guard and startled him. The guard shot Campbell, who died a month later from his wounds.\n\nWhile Campbell was still alive, Shade Combs had an idea that he could end the feud by killing French and a select few of his men. Campbell gave him men and he set out to do the deed. French got wind of the plot and set up an ambush of his own. Combs escaped only to succumb to a successful ambush soon after at his home.\n\nDeath of Elijah Morgan: Elijah Morgan, son-in-law to Judge Josiah Combs, was a French supporter and was the next to be assassinated on October 9, 1888. He was working on an agreement with Frank Grace when he was ambushed. He wanted peace and the Eversole clan told him to meet them in Hazard to discuss a deal. This was all a ploy to lure him in and he was murdered. It is widely believed this was is retaliation for the death of Shade Combs since they occurred so close together.\n\nKentucky Government asked to intervene: Judge Lilly, responsible for the law in Perry along with other counties, had had enough. He dispatched state troops to Hazard, which arrived in early November 1888. He wrote the governor on November 13, 1888, telling him of the need for troops and that he would not conduct court in Perry, along with other counties, without a state guard for fear of shootings. On November 14, 1888 Sam Hill, who was in charge of the state troops, wrote to Governor Buckner that only 35 people remained in town when they arrived. Many came back after the troops arrived and that the juries' ties to the clans or fear of the accused had caused lawlessness. The November 1888 term of court went by with ease since the troops were occupying the town.\n\nThe Battle of Hazard occurred on the fourth court day, November 8, 1889. A supposedly inebriated Campbell was on Graveyard Hill and discharged his gun. A storekeeper saw him shooting, took aim, and killed Campbell with one shot. The people in the courthouse heard the shot, thought it was the feud, and scattered. The Eversole clan took control of the courthouse and French's men captured the jailhouse. Jesse Fields and Bob Profitt, both French men, escaped from the courthouse's second story and made it to the jail. That night they escaped the jailhouse to regroup with the rest of the French party. Jesse Fields and 'Bad' Tom Smith then took the high ground on Graveyard Hill. J. McKnight, an Eversole man, attempted to run across the street with a friend to gain some ground and was shot dead by French's men. The Eversoles retreated across the river after their ammo was exhausted. They left Green Morris and one other along the river bank so they could escape safely. When Jesse Fields and Tom Smith pursued, Morris opened fire and hit Fields in the arm. The Battle of Hazard was over.\n\nFollowing the incidents in Hazard, the courthouse was burned down on July 4, 1890 though the records were saved.\n\nThe death of Robin Cornett: Robin Cornett, an Eversole supporter, finally returned to his home hoping to be done with the feud. He was ambushed and killed in July 1890 when he went to cut a tree in the forest near his home.\n\nThis was the final straw for Judge Lilly. He appeared with state troops for a special August court term in 1890 that would be held in a tent. They quickly brought up each of the accused and sent them to Clark County to be tried. Lilly knew that there is no way any would have a fair trial in Hazard and for fear of another battle. None were allowed bail at first. The jail became so full they had to keep the men in a guarded tent. The \"Blanket Court\" worked well and there was little to no incidents until 1894.\n\nThe Assassination of Judge Josiah Combs: In 1894, Judge Josiah Combs decided to return to the home he loved, hoping the fighting was all over. He was ambushed and killed while having a conversation with friends outside of his house. A large field of corn was growing in Hazard. The killers: Joe Adkins, Jesse Fields, and Boone Frazier hid in the corn and fired at Judge Combs. None of this would have come to life except that 'Bad' Tom Smith had been caught on a different murder and sentenced to death row previously for the murder of Dr. John E. Rader. He gave a gallows confession outlining how Fulton French had organized the plot and that Joe Adkins had fired the fatal shot that killed Judge Combs. French was acquitted of the charges, Frazier was never caught, Fields was sentenced to life then acquitted in a second trial, and Adkins received life in both trials, though he only served 8 years before being released.\n\nThe Murder of B. Fulton French: After the events in Hazard, Fulton French began wearing a bulletproof vest. Years later, in 1913, French came across Susan Eversole, Joe's Widow, and her son Harry Clay Eversole (then 28), sometimes referred to as 'One Arm' Harry since he lost an arm in childhood. Fulton said \"Good Morning, Mrs. Eversole\". Harry took out his pistol and shot him in the spleen. Harry was only charged a $75 disturbing the peace fine. French did die from the shot from 'One Arm' Harry, though it took him over a year to finally succumb from the wound in 1915.\nDuring the period from 1886 when notice arrived of Benjamin Fulton French amassing a private army to assassinate Joseph C. Eversole the public and media followed the twists and turns of the French-Eversole Feud and the various trials, battles, indictments, convictions, re-trials, and death of the participants. This is a list of the newspapers that ran articles about the war in order of appearance:\n\nFirst Notice of Feud\n\n\nThe Peace Treaty\n\n\nAssassination of Joseph C. Eversole\n\n\nBattle of Hazard\n\n\nContinuing Bloodshed\n\n\nBad Tom Smith given Bail\n\n\nContinuing Bloodshed\n\n\nFalse reports that Josiah Combs elderly wife was murdered\n\n\nIndictments, Trials and Acquittals\n\n\nJudge Josiah Combs Targeted and killed\n\n\nMore Trials, More indictments\n\n\nBad Tom Smith Confesses\n\n\nFulton French Charged with Murder over Marcum case\n\n\nFulton French and Mrs. Eversole meet\n\n\nFulton French dies\n\n"}
{"id": "1569208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1569208", "title": "Gesta Francorum", "text": "Gesta Francorum\n\nThe so-called Gesta Francorum (\"The Deeds of the Franks\") or in full \"Gesta Francorum et aliorum Hierosolimitanorum\" (\"The deeds of the Franks and the other pilgrims to Jerusalem\") is a Latin chronicle of the First Crusade written in circa 1100-1101 by an anonymous author connected with Bohemond I of Antioch.\n\nIt narrates the events of the First Crusade from the inception in November 1095 to the Battle of Ascalon in August 1099. The name of the author is unknown, but he was a member of the crusading party, either Norman or Italian, recruited by Bohemond of Taranto in 1096 from the duchy of Apulia. His narrative of the trip to Jerusalem, initially under the leadership of Bohemond and then Raymond of Toulouse, was composed and written during the journey. He had the help of a scribe who made occasional edits of his own, and thus the chronicle provides invaluable viewpoints of a knight who was not a high level leader or cleric.\n\nThe most important historical contribution is the day-to-day events of the journey: tactical operations, provisioning, changing moods of the crusaders, the anti-Greek prejudice, and progress of each day.\n\nTo his literary contemporaries, the anonymous author was a \"rustic\". Guibert of Nogent wrote his \"Dei gesta per Francos\" (1108) based on it, saying the original \"frequently left the reader stunned with its insipid vacuity\". Robert the Monk of Rheims was later commissioned to re-write the entire work for literary and historical improvements while Baudri of Dol also later re-wrote a version of \"this rustic little work\". However the original has persisted and today it remains one of the most valuable contemporary sources of the First Crusade.\n\nSteven Runciman writes of the \"Gesta\":\n\nThe \"Gesta Francorum\" closely parallels the account of the First Crusade by the priest and crusader Peter Tudebode, \"Historia de Hierosolymitano itinere\". Both chronicles have highly similar details and phrasing, but each account also contains minor details not found in the other. Historians and paleographers dispute the relationship between the chronicles and the order in which they appeared; one influential suggestion has been Jay Rubenstein's argument that the texts share a fuller, common source which has since been lost.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42776983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42776983", "title": "History in Africa", "text": "History in Africa\n\nHistory in Africa: A Journal of Method is an annual peer-reviewed academic journal covering the historiography and methodology of African history. It is published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of the African Studies Association. The editor-in-chief is Jan Jansen (Leiden University).\n"}
{"id": "13812116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13812116", "title": "Immigrant language", "text": "Immigrant language\n\nImmigrant languages are languages spoken by immigrant communities. Immigrant languages have arrived to the country or region relatively recently, unlike historical minority languages, which have been spoken in the country for several generations. Historical minority languages also tend to have a certain official status. Immigrant languages should not be confused with foreign or second languages which are different concepts.\n\n"}
{"id": "44722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44722", "title": "Intaglio (burial mound)", "text": "Intaglio (burial mound)\n\nIntaglio (from ) is a term from art applied to burial mounds that refers to a design cut into a hard surface. In this case, the burial mounds have designs cut into the ground, though \"intaglio\" broadly applies to burial mounds which are raised above the natural surface of the terrain. There are much more rare forms where they are left as indents below the natural terrain. These are typically in some effigy shape such as the Panther Intaglio Effigy Mound, which can be seen in Fort Atkinson, Wisconsin, where it is the last remaining intaglio mound in the state.\n\n"}
{"id": "57547002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57547002", "title": "International Gender Champions", "text": "International Gender Champions\n\nInternational Gender Champions (IGC) is a network of female and male leaders of member states, international organizations, and civil society working for gender equality. It is an initiative of Women@TheTable, and was founded in 2015 by Caitlin Kraft-Buchman of Women@TheTable, Ambassador Pam Hamamoto, Permanent Representative of the United States to the United Nations in Geneva, and Michael Møller, the Under-Secretary-General of the United Nations and current Director-General of the United Nations Office at Geneva.\n\nChampions pledge to no longer sit on single sex panels, and commit to implementing two individual institutional commitments for gender equality in their work. According to co-founder Caitlin Kraft-Buchman, International Gender Champions’ strategy is to help make a wide range of organizations make “huge changes through tiny steps” by committing to realistic, achievable transformations for gender equality.\n\nAt the IGC launch in 2015, Møller stated, “With the unique concentration of Member States, international organizations, civil society, research and academic institutions and private sector entities, International Geneva provides an ideal platform to show that leadership in a most practical way. Together, our actions have a truly global impact, making a difference for peace, rights and well-being for all people across the planet. We have a special responsibility to capitalize on this potential for greater gender equality.”\n\nThere are currently over 200 International Gender Champions in Geneva, New York, Vienna, and Nairobi. Champions include UN Secretary General António Guterres, the heads of UN Offices at Geneva, Vienna, and Nairobi, the ILO, WHO, WTO, WIPO, ITU, UNHCR, OHCHR, IPU, and other member states and civil society groups. After joining IGC, Secretary General Guterres stated, “I encourage other senior leaders to be part of this campaign for equality. In a male dominated world, the empowerment of women must be a key priority. Women’s rights are human rights – and attacks on women are attacks on all of us. Our world needs more women leaders. And our world needs more men standing up for gender equality.\"\n\nIGC has organized impact groups, led by Champions which channel sector knowledge in greater detail on Representation, Trade, Change Management, Disarmament, and Standards. On the occasion of the World Trade Organization’s Ministerial Conference in Buenos Aires in December 2017, the IGC Trade Impact Group was joined by 120 WTO members and observers to issue the historic Joint Declaration on Trade and Women’s Economic Empowerment, the first international declaration to explicitly link women’s economic empowerment and trade. Susan Malcorra, who presided over the conference, called the Declaration a “great success… Collectively, we were able to recognize the key role women can play in a fair, just and sustainable international trade system. The fact that so many countries, both members and observers of the WTO, rallied behind women’s empowerment in this field signifies that not everything is lost.”\n\nIn 2017 and 2018, Geneva’s Jet d’Eau was illuminated on International Women’s Day with the turquoise of the International Gender Champions logo.\n"}
{"id": "676833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=676833", "title": "Inuktitut", "text": "Inuktitut\n\nInuktitut (; , ; from , \"person\" + , \"like\", \"in the manner of\"), also Eastern Canadian Inuktitut, is one of the principal Inuit languages of Canada. It is spoken in all areas north of the tree line, including parts of the provinces of Newfoundland and Labrador, Quebec, to some extent in northeastern Manitoba as well as the Northwest Territories and Nunavut. It is one of the aboriginal languages written with Canadian Aboriginal syllabics.\n\nIt is recognised as an official language in Nunavut alongside Inuinnaqtun, and both languages are known collectively as \"Inuktut\". Further, it is recognized as one of eight official native tongues in the Northwest Territories. It also has legal recognition in Nunavik—a part of Quebec—thanks in part to the James Bay and Northern Quebec Agreement, and is recognised in the Charter of the French Language as the official language of instruction for Inuit school districts there. It also has some recognition in Nunatsiavut—the Inuit area in Labrador—following the ratification of its agreement with the government of Canada and the province of Newfoundland and Labrador. The Canadian census reports that there are roughly 35,000 Inuktitut speakers in Canada, including roughly 200 who live regularly outside traditionally Inuit lands.\n\nThe term \"Inuktitut\" is often used more broadly to include Inuvialuktun and thus nearly all the Inuit dialects of Canada. For more information on the relationship between Inuktitut and the Inuit languages spoken in Greenland and Alaska, see \"Inuit languages\".\n\nBefore contact, Inuit learned skills by example and participation. The Inuktitut language provided them with all the vocabulary required to describe traditional practices and natural features. Up to this point, it was solely an oral language. Colonialism brought the European schooling system over to Canada. The missionaries of the Anglican and Roman Catholic churches were the first ones to deliver education to Inuit in schools. The teachers used the Inuktitut language for instruction and developed writing systems.\n\nIn 1928 the first residential school for Inuit opened, and English became the language of instruction. As the government's interests in the North increased, it started taking over the education of Inuit. After the end of World War II, English was seen as the language of communication in all domains. Officials expressed concerns about the difficulty for Inuit to find employment, if they were not able to communicate in English. Inuit were supposed to use English at school, work, and even at the playground. The Inuit themselves viewed Inuktitut as the way to express their feelings and be linked to their identity, while English was a tool for making money.\n\nIn the 1960s, the European attitude towards the Inuktitut language started to change. Inuktitut was seen as a language worth preserving, and it was argued that knowledge, particularly in the first years of school, is best transmitted in the mother tongue. This set off the beginning of bilingual schools. In 1969, most Inuit voted to eliminate federal schools and replace them with programs by the (DGNQ). Content was now taught in Inuktitut, English and French.\n\nInuktitut became one of the official language in the Northwest Territories in 1984. Its status is secured in the Northwest Territories Official Language Act. With the split of the Territory into NWT and Nunavut in 1999, both territories kept the Language Act. Nunatsiavut in Labrador made Inuktitut the official language of the government. In Nunavik, the James Bay and Northern Quebec Agreement recognizes Inuktitut in the education system.\n\nNunavut's basic law lists four official languages: English, French, Inuktitut and Inuinnaqtun, but to what degree Inuktitut and Inuinnaqtun can be thought of as separate languages is ambiguous in state policy. The word \"Inuktitut\" is often used to describe both. A more proper term has been adopted using \"Inuit Languages\" when speaking of Inuinnaqtun and Inuktitut.\n\nThe demographic situation of Inuktitut is quite strong in Nunavut. Nunavut is the home of some 24,000 Inuit, most of whom—over 80% according to the 2001 census—speak Inuktitut, including some 3,500 people reported as monolinguals. 2001 census data shows that the use of Inuktitut, while lower among the young than the elderly, has stopped declining in Canada as a whole and may even be increasing in Nunavut.\n\nThe South Baffin dialect (, ) is spoken across the southern part of Baffin Island, including the territorial capital Iqaluit. This has in recent years made it a much more widely heard dialect, since a great deal of Inuktitut media originates in Iqaluit. Some linguists also distinguish an \"East Baffin\" dialect from either South Baffin or North Baffin, which is an Inuvialuk dialect.\n\nAs of the early 2000s, Nunavut has gradually implemented early childhood, elementary, and secondary school-level immersion programmes within its education system to further preserve and promote the Inuktitut language. , \"Pirurvik, Iqaluit's Inuktitut language training centre, has a new goal: to train instructors from Nunavut communities to teach Inuktitut in different ways and in their own dialects when they return home.\"\n\nQuebec is home to roughly 12,000 Inuit, nearly all of whom live in Nunavik. According to the 2001 census, 90% of Quebec Inuit speak Inuktitut.\n\nThe Nunavik dialect (, ) is relatively close to the South Baffin dialect, but not identical. Because of the political and physical boundary between Nunavik and Nunavut, Nunavik has separate government and educational institutions from those in the rest of the Inuktitut-speaking world, resulting in a growing standardization of the local dialect as something separate from other forms of Inuktitut. In the Nunavik dialect, Inuktitut is called (). This dialect is also sometimes called or ( or ).\n\nSubdialects of Inuktitut in this region include Tarrarmiut and Itivimuit. Itivimuit is associated with Inukjuak, Quebec, and there is a Itivimuit River near the town.\n\nThe Nunatsiavut dialect ( , or often in government documents ) was once spoken across northern Labrador. It has a distinct writing system, created by German missionaries from the Moravian Church in Greenland in the 1760s. This separate writing tradition, and the remoteness of Nunatsiavut from other Inuit communities, has made it into a distinct dialect with a separate literary tradition. The Nunatsiavummiut call their language ().\n\nAlthough Nunatsiavut claims over 4,000 inhabitants of Inuit descent, only 550 reported Inuktitut to be their native language in the 2001 census, mostly in the town of Nain. Inuktitut is seriously endangered in Labrador.\n\nNunatsiavut also had a separate dialect reputedly much closer to western Inuktitut dialects, spoken in the area around Rigolet. According to news reports, in 1999 it had only three very elderly speakers.\n\nThough often thought to be a dialect of Greenlandic, Inuktun or Polar Eskimo is a recent arrival in Greenland from the Eastern Canadian Arctic, arriving perhaps as late as the 18th century.\n\nEastern dialects of Inuktitut have fifteen consonants and three vowels (which can be long or short). Consonants are arranged with five places of articulation: bilabial, alveolar, palatal, velar and uvular; and three manners of articulation: voiceless stops, voiced continuants and nasals, as well as two additional sounds—voiceless fricatives. Natsalingmiutut has an additional consonant , a vestige of the retroflex consonants of Proto-Inuit. Inuinnaqtun has one fewer consonant, as and have merged into . All dialects of Inuktitut have only three basic vowels and make a phonological distinction between short and long forms of all vowels. In —Nunavut standard Roman orthography—long vowels are written as a double vowel.\n\nInuktitut, like other Eskimo–Aleut languages, has a very rich morphological system, in which a succession of different morphemes are added to root words to indicate things that, in languages like English, would require several words to express. (See also: Agglutinative language and Polysynthetic language.) All words begin with a root morpheme to which other morphemes are suffixed. Inuktitut has hundreds of distinct suffixes, in some dialects as many as 700. However, it is highly regular, with rules that do not have exceptions like in English and other Indo-European languages, though they are sometimes very complicated.\n\nOne famous example is the word () meaning \"I'll have to go to the airport\":\n\nInuktitut is written in several different ways, depending on the dialect and region, but also on historical and political factors.\n\nMoravian missionaries, with the purpose of introducing the Inuit peoples to Christianity and the Bible, contributed to the development of an Inuktitut alphabet in Greenland during the 1760s that was based on the Latin script. (This alphabet is distinguished by its inclusion of the letter kra, ĸ.) They later travelled to Labrador in the 1800s, bringing the Inuktitut alphabet with them.\n\nThe Alaskan Yupik and Inupiat (who, in addition, developed their own syllabary) and the Siberian Yupik also adopted Latin alphabets.\n\nEastern Canadian Inuit were the last to adopt the written word when, in the 1860s, missionaries imported the written system they had developed in their efforts to convert the Cree to Christianity. The very last Inuit peoples introduced to missionaries and writing were the Netsilik Inuit in Kugaaruk and north Baffin Island. The Netsilik adopted by the 1920s.\n\nThe \"Greenlandic\" system has been substantially reformed in recent years, making Labrador writing unique to Nunatsiavummiutut at this time. Most Inuktitut in Nunavut and Nunavik is written using a scheme called or Inuktitut syllabics, based on Canadian Aboriginal syllabics. The western part of Nunavut and the Northwest Territories use a Latin alphabet usually called or , reflecting the predispositions of the missionaries who reached this area in the late 19th century and early 20th.\n\nIn April 2012, with the completion of the Old Testament, the first complete Bible in Inuktitut, translated by native speakers, was published.\n\nNoted literature in Inuktitut has included the novels \"Harpoon of the Hunter\" by Markoosie Patsauq, and by Mitiarjuk Nappaaluk.\n\nThe Inuktitut syllabary used in Canada is based on the Cree syllabary devised by the missionary James Evans. The present form of the syllabary for Canadian Inuktitut was adopted by the Inuit Cultural Institute in Canada in the 1970s. The Inuit in Alaska, the Inuvialuit, Inuinnaqtun speakers, and Inuit in Greenland and Labrador use Latin alphabets.\n\nThough conventionally called a syllabary, the writing system has been classified by some observers as an abugida, since syllables starting with the same consonant have related glyphs rather than unrelated ones.\n\nAll of the characters needed for the Inuktitut syllabary are available in the Unicode block Unified Canadian Aboriginal Syllabics. The territorial government of Nunavut, Canada has developed a TrueType font called (ᐱᓄᐊᕐᓂᖅ ) for computer displays. It was designed by Vancouver-based Tiro Typeworks. Apple Macintosh computers include an Inuktitut IME (Input Method Editor) as part of keyboard language options.\n\nIn 2012 Tamara Kearney, Manager of Braille Research and Development at the Commonwealth Braille and Talking Book Cooperative, developed a Braille code for the Inuktitut language syllabics. This code is based on representing the syllabics orientation. Machine translation from Unicode UTF-8 and UTF-16 can be performed using the liblouis Braille translation system which included an Inuktitut Braille translation table. The book (\"The Orphan and the Polar Bear\") became the first work ever translated into Inuktitut Braille and a copy is held by the Nunavut Territorial Library at Baker Lake, Nunavut.\n\n\n\nAlthough as many of the examples as possible are novel or extracted from Inuktitut texts, some of the examples in this article are drawn from \"Introductory Inuktitut\" and \"Inuktitut Linguistics for Technocrats\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4601887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4601887", "title": "Ioannis Kakridis", "text": "Ioannis Kakridis\n\nIoannis Kakridis () (17 November 1901 – 20 March 1992) was a Greek classical scholar.\n\nHe was born in Athens in 1901 and received his PhD at the University of Athens. He went on to become a professor at the universities of Athens, Thessaloniki, Tübingen, Stockholm, Lund and Uppsala. Kakridis was a Homer scholar and one of the most important classicists of twentieth-century Greece. He was also an early and staunch advocate of the adoption of the monotonic system in the Greek language. In 1941, he was denounced by the faculty of the University of Athens for republishing a lecture in the monotonic system, which led to the so-called \"Trial of Accents\" and his suspension and later dismissal from the university.\n\nThe list of his written work is quite extensive. The most important works are a translation into the modern Greek language of the works of Homer, together with Nikos Kazantzakis and a five-volume collection of Greek mythology.\n"}
{"id": "6129491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6129491", "title": "Keith Muckelroy", "text": "Keith Muckelroy\n\nKeith Muckelroy (1951-1980) was a pioneer of maritime archaeology. Instead of the traditional particularist or historiographic approach used by maritime archaeologists, Muckelroy's ideas were new to the field, influenced by the prehistoric and analytical archaeology he learned under Grahame Clark and David Clarke at Cambridge, the tenets of processual archaeology gaining traction in the U.S., and his own experiences on shipwreck sites in British waters, notably the 1664 Dutch East Indiaman Kennemerland, several Spanish Armada wrecks, and the Mary Rose.\n\nIn 1976 he published a paper in which he proposed a theory for the formation of shipwreck sites. He later expanded this and other theories in his seminal publication, a book titled \"Maritime Archaeology\". With his discussion on shipwreck formation processes, he introduced terms such as \"extracting filters\" and \"scrambling devices\" into the lexicon, and used statistical models to clarify large bodies of data in order to discern patterns in the wrecking process, ideas that had never been proposed before. These ideas coincided nicely with processual archaeology’s call for a more scientific, analytic methodology. Muckelroy's shipwreck formation theory became a classic model for interpretation of wreck sites and even today, either his original paper or his later book are referenced regularly in studies on the archaeology of shipwrecks. \n\nMuckelroy's other prominent contribution was a three-part interpretive framework for better understanding the ship in its original social context. The three aspects he proposed were 1. The ship as a machine designed for harnessing a source of power in order to serve as a means of transport; 2. The ship as an element in a military or economic system, providing its basic raison d'être; and 3. The ship as a closed community, with its own hierarchy, customs, and conventions. This basic model has proven useful to many maritime archaeologists seeking to understand the role of ships as part of a greater cultural system. \n\nMuckelroy also edited an atlas of underwater archaeological sites. His research covered the Kennemerland, Bronze age cargoes and trade and terrestrial archaeology. He believed that archaeological research on more recent wrecks, such as early iron vessels and steamships, was a waste of time because more information on them could be gleaned from material in archives and in museums than from artifacts recovered from the seabed. This view is challenged by other maritime archaeologists.\n\nHis career was cut short on 8 September 1980 when he drowned in a diving accident in Loch Tay.\n\nThe Keith Muckelroy award is awarded biennially for the best published work in the preceding two years covering British maritime, nautical or underwater archaeology. Entries are eligible if they address work in Britain, Isle of Man, Jersey, Guernsey or British territorial waters. The award is given for work that best reflects the pioneering ideas and scholarly standards of Keith Muckelroy.\n\nThe award became part of the British Archaeological Awards in 2004 and is sponsored by the Keith Muckelroy Trust, The Maritime Affairs Group of the IFA, the Nautical Archaeology Society and the Maritime Committee of the Association of Local Government Archaeological Officers. Prior to 2004, the award had been given five times during the 1980s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16363904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16363904", "title": "Kesh (Sumer)", "text": "Kesh (Sumer)\n\nKesh was an ancient Sumerian city and religious site, whose patron goddess was Ninhursag. Its location is uncertain; some of the possible sites put forth include Al-Ubaid, near Ur, or Tell al-Wilayah near Adab or Abu Salabikh. Robert D. Biggs suggested it could have just been a variation in the spelling of Kish.\n\nThere is a famous Kesh temple hymn about Ninhursag's temple in Kesh, where she is called Nintud. The goddess Nisaba appears as the temple's caretaker and decision maker.\n"}
{"id": "10424789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10424789", "title": "Konrad Tuchscherer", "text": "Konrad Tuchscherer\n\nKonrad Tuchscherer (born February 16, 1970 in Neenah, Wisconsin) is an educator, scholar, writer, and public intellectual. Tuchscherer currently serves as the Co-Director of the Bamum Scripts and Archives Project in Cameroon and is Associate Professor of History and Director of Africana Studies at St. John's University (New York City).\n\nKonrad Tuchscherer is Associate Professor of History and Director of Africana Studies at St. John's University (New York City). He received his Ph.D. from the School of Oriental and African Studies at the University of London, where he was a Marshall Scholar and Fulbright Scholar, and wrote a thesis on West African scripts. He attended the University of Wisconsin–Madison where he graduated Phi Beta Kappa.\n\nTuchscherer is currently the Co-Director of the Bamum Scripts and Archives Project at the Archives du Palais des Rois Bamoun, Foumban. He has traveled the Bamum Kingdom collecting and photographing threatened documents, created a modern archives for the storage of documents, and helped to create a functional computer font for the Bamum script. He continues to translate and inventory documents with a team of translators and has commenced an initiative to spread literacy among Bamum youth in schools. In 2006 the King of the Bamum, El Hadj Sultan Ibrahim Mbombo Njoya, recognized him for his efforts by awarding him the Bamum title \"Nji\" (\"Master\"). His work on Bamum began as a Fulbright Scholar in 2004. In 2006, Tuchscherer lived and conducted research in Foumban for the year.\n\nTuchscherer's interests include nineteenth and twentieth century West Africa, colonialism in Africa, and Gullah history in South Carolina and Georgia. His important research on the origin, development and spread of writing in Africa has appeared in several leading journals: the Bagam script of Cameroon in \"African Affairs\", the Vai script of Liberia in \"History in Africa\", the Mende script of Sierra Leone in \"African Languages and Cultures\" and \"Journal of African Cultural Studies\", and Egyptian hieroglyphs in \"Africana Bulletin\". Tuchscherer is currently writing a book entitled \"Black Scribes\" that explores the history of the written word in Africa from ancient Egyptian hieroglyphs to modern West African alphabets.\n\n"}
{"id": "530363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=530363", "title": "Lahore Fort", "text": "Lahore Fort\n\nThe Lahore Fort (Punjabi and : \"Shahi Qila\", or \"Royal Fort\"), is a citadel in the city of Lahore,Punjab, Pakistan. The fortress is located at the northern end of walled city Lahore, and spreads over an area greater than 20 hectares. It contains 21 notable monuments, some of which date to the era of Emperor Akbar. The Lahore Fort is notable for having been almost entirely rebuilt in the 17th century, when the Mughal Empire was at the height of its splendour and opulence.\n\nThough the site of the Lahore Fort has been inhabited for millennia, the first record of a fortified structure at the site was in regard to an 11th-century mud-brick fort. The foundations of the modern Lahore Fort date to 1566 during the reign of Emperor Akbar, who bestowed the fort with a syncretic architectural style that featured both Islamic and Hindu motifs. Additions from the Shah Jahan period are characterized by luxurious marble with inlaid Persian floral designs, while the fort's grand and iconic Alamgiri Gate was constructed by the last of the great Mughal Emperors, Aurangzeb, and faces the renowned Badshahi Mosque.\n\nAnd after the fall of the Mughal Empire, the Lahore Fort was used as the residence of Ranjit Singh, founder of the Sikh Empire. The fort then passed to British colonialists after they annexed Punjab following their victory over the Sikhs at the Battle of Gujrat in February 1849. In 1981, the fort was inscribed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site for its \"outstanding repertoire\" of Mughal monuments dating from the era when the empire was at its artistic and aesthetic zenith.\n\nThe fort is located in the northern part of Lahore's old walled city. The fort's Alamgiri gate is part of an ensemble of buildings, which along with the Badshahi Mosque, Roshnai Gate, and Samadhi of Ranjit Singh, form a quadrangle around the Hazuri Bagh. The \"Minar-e-Pakistan\" and Iqbal Park are adjacent to the northern boundary of the fort.\n\nThough the site is known to have been inhabited for millennia, the origins of Lahore Fort are obscure and traditionally based on various myths.\n\nThe first historical reference to a fort at the site is from the 11th century during the rule of Mahmud of Ghazni. The fort was made of mud, and was destroyed in 1241 by the Mongols during their invasion of Lahore. A new fort was constructed in 1267 at the site by Sultan Balban of the Turkic Mamluk dynasty of the Delhi Sultanate. The re-built fort was destroyed in 1398 by the invading forces of Timur, only to be rebuilt by Mubarak Shah Sayyid in 1421, In the 1430s, the fort was occupied by Shaikh Ali of Kabul. and remained under the control of the Pashtun sultans of the Lodi dynasty until Lahore was captured by the Mughal Emperor Babur in 1526.\n\nThe present design and structure of the fort traces its origins to 1575, when the Mughal Emperor Akbar occupied the site as a post to guard the northwest frontier of the empire. The strategic location of Lahore, between the Mughal territories and the strongholds of Kabul, Multan, and Kashmir necessitated the dismantling of the old mud-fort and fortification with solid brick masonry. Lofty palaces were built over time, along with lush gardens. Notable Akbar period structures included the \"Doulat Khana-e-Khas-o-Am\", \"Jharoka-e-Darshan\", and \"Akbari Gate\". Many Akbari structures were modified or replaced by subsequent rulers.\n\nEmperor Jahangir first mentions his alterations to the fort in 1612 when describing the Maktab Khana. Jahangir also added the Kala Burj pavilion, which features European-inspired angels on its vaulted ceiling. British visitors to the fort noted Christian iconography during the Jahangir period, with paintings of the Madonna and Jesus found in the fort complex. In 1606, Guru Arjan of the Sikh faith was imprisoned at the fort before his death.\n\nJahangir bestowed the massive Picture Wall, a by wall which is exquisitely decorated with a vibrant array of glazed tile, faience mosaics, and frescoes. The Mosque of Mariyam Zamani Begum was built adjacent to the forts of eastern walls during the reign of Jahangir. While the mosque likely served as a Friday congregational mosque for members of the Royal Court, it was not financed by Jahangir, although it likely required his approval.\n\nShah Jahan's first contribution to the fort commenced in the year of his coronation, 1628, and continued until 1645. Shah Jahan first ordered the construction of the Diwan-i-Aam in the style of a \"Chehel Sotoun\" - a Persian style 40-pillar public audience hall. Though construction of the Shah Burj commenced under Jahangir, Shah Jahan was displeased with its design and appointed Asif Khan to oversee reconstruction. Shah Jahan's Shah Burj forms a quadrangle with the famous Sheesh Mahal, and Naulakha Pavilion. Both are attributed to Shah Jahan, although the Naulakha Pavilion may be a later addition possibly from the Sikh era. The white marble Moti Masjid, or Pearl Mosque, also dates from the Shah Jahan period.\n\nEmperor Aurangzeb, built the Alamgiri Gate, whose semi-circular towers and domed pavilions are a widely recognised symbol of Lahore that was once featured on Pakistani currency.\n\nThe Mughals lost the fort to the Afghan Durranis, who in turn briefly lost the fort to Maratha forces before being recaptured by the Durranis. The fort was then captured by the Bhangi Misl - one of the 12 Sikh Misls of Punjab that ruled Lahore from 1767 until 1799. The fort fell to the army of Ranjit Singh, who took Lahore from the Bhangi Misl in 1799. Maharaja Duleep Singh was born at the fort's \"Jind Kaur Haveli\" in 1838. Duleep Singh had signed the Treaty of Bhyroval in 1847 that brought the Sikh empire to an effective end. The fort and the city had remained under the control of Ranjit Singh's family until the fall of the Sikh empire in 1849.\n\nDuring their occupation of the fort, the Sikhs repurposed portions of the fort for their own use. Ranjit Singh used the fort's Summer Palace as his own residence. The \"Sehdari\" pavilion, or \"Three-doored\" pavilion, was added to the fort during Sikh rule. The fort's Naag Temple was also constructed during Sikh rule, while the \"Mai Jindan Haveli\" was extensively modified during Sikh rule. The fort's Diwan-i-Aam was destroyed in 1841 when the son of Ranjit Singh, Sher Singh bombarded the fort in his fight against Chand Kaur.\n\nExcavations in 1959 in front of Diwan-i-Am led to the discovery of a gold coin dated 1025 CE belonging to Mahmud Ghaznavi. The coin was unearthed at the depth of from the lawn. The cultural layers were continuous to the depth of indicating that the fort was inhabited by people even before his conquest.\n\nWhile relaying the deteriorated floor of Akbari Gate in April 2007, three floors in the fort were unearthed belonging to the British, Sikh and Mughal period. The floor of the British, Sikh and Mughal periods were constructed with bricks, burnt bricks and pebbles respectively. The latter either built during Jahangir's or Shah Jahan's era was the hallmark of Mughals.\n\nThe fort is divided into two sections: first the administrative section, which is well connected with main entrances, and includes gardens and \"Diwan-e-Khas\" for royal audiences. The second, a private and concealed residential section is divided into courts in the north and accessible through elephant gate. It also contains Sheesh Mahal, spacious bedrooms and small gardens. The exterior walls are decorated with blue Persian Kashi tiles. The original entrance faces the Maryam Zamani Mosque and the larger Alamgiri gate opens towards Hazuri Bagh through the majestic Badshahi mosque. Influence of Hindu architecture is seen in the zoomorphic corbels.\n\nThe Naulakha Pavilion is an iconic sight of the Lahore Fort built in 1633 during the Shah Jahan period that is made of prominent white marble, and known for its distinctive curvilinear roof. It cost around 900,000 rupees, an exorbitant amount at the time. The structure derives its name from the Urdu word for 900,000, \"Naulakha\".\n\nThe Naulakha pavilion served as a personal chamber and was located to the west of the Sheesh Mahal, in the northern section of the fort. The pavilion served as inspiration for Rudyard Kipling, who named his Vermont home Naulakha in honour of the pavilion.\n\nThe structure was originally inlaid with precious and semi-precious stones. It reflects a mixture of contemporary traditions at the time of its construction, with a sloping-roof based on a Bengali style, and a baldachin from Europe, which makes evident the imperial as well as religious function of the pavilion. The marble shades of the pavilion are capped with merlons to hide view from the grounds.\n\nEmperor Jahangir ordered construction of the massive \"Picture Wall', which is considered to be the greatest artistic triumph of the Lahore Fort. Unlike the Red Fort and Agra Fort, Lahore Fort's ramparts were made of brick rather than red stone. The monumental Picture Wall is a large section of the outer wall which is exquisitely decorated with a vibrant array of glazed tile, faience mosaics, and frescoes.\n\nThe embellished wall stretches over much of the fort's northern and western walls and measures approximately by . The wall contains 116 panels, which depict a myriad of subjects, including elephant fights, angels, and polo games that do not form a cohesive narrative; each can be viewed in isolation. Though begun under Jahangir, the Picture Wall was decorated throughout the 1620s, and may have been completed under the reign of his son, Shah Jahan.\n\nThe Picture Wall was badly neglected, and suffered from disrepair and damage. Conservation works at the site began in 2015 by the Aga Khan Trust for Culture and Walled City of Lahore Authority, which together have also restored other Lahore landmarks such as the Wazir Khan Mosque and Shahi Hammam. Detailed documentation of the wall using 3D scanner was completed in July 2016, after which conservation work would start.\n\nThe Sheesh Mahal (\"The Palace of Mirrors\"; ) is located within Jahangir's \"Shah Burj\" block in northern-western corner of the Lahore Fort. It was constructed under the reign of Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan in 1631-32 by Mirza Ghiyas Begh, the grand father of Mumtaz Mahal, and father of Nur Jahan. The ornate white marble pavilion's walls are decorated with frescoes, and are inlaid with pietra dura and complex mirror-work known as \"ayina kari\". It is among the best known monuments of Lahore Fort, and forms the jewel in the fort's crown. The distinctive Shah Jahani style is reflected in the extensive use of white marble, and hierarchical accents of the construction.\n\nSheesh Mahal was reserved for personal use by the imperial family and close aides. During the Sikh Empire, \"Shah Burj\" became Ranjit Singh's favourite place, who built a harem on top of the Sheesh Mahal. This was also the place where he would display his prized possession, the Koh-i-Noor.\n\nLocated directly beneath the Sheesh Mahal and Shah Burj quadrangle is the Summer Palace, also known as the \"Pari Mahal\", or \"Fairy Palace.\" The palace is a labyrinth of chambers that date from the Shah Jahan period. They were used as a residence during hot weather months, as they were cooled by effective ventilation systems that channeled cool breezes into the palace. The palace's flooring system also helped cool the space - its floors were made of two layers that were separated by a layer of water pumped in from the Ravi River. Cool water perfumed by roses flowed through an elaborate system of 42 waterfalls and cascades throughout the palace.\n\nThe palace was historically only accessible from the overlying Sheesh Mahal, though a new entrance was built by the British near Hathi Pul, or \"Elephant Stairs.\" Its walls were decorated with intricate frescoes and marble inlay that have been severely deteriorate by layers of subsequent white-washing and centuries of dampness. Passage tunnels also exist that lead from the palace to the fort's exterior where the River Ravi once flowed, suggesting that it may have been part of an escape tunnel designed to allow occupants to flee in case of attack.\n\nThe Summer Palace remained in use during the Sikh period under the reign of Ranjit Singh. Beginning in World War 2, the Summer Palace was used as a storehouse for the British Civil Defence Department, and remained in use by Pakistan until 1973. The building's structural integrity was affected by its use as a storehouse. As of 2014, the Walled City of Lahore Authority has assumed control of the space in order to undertake restoration works with the Aga Khan Trust for Culture Following its restoration, the space will house the Lahore Fort's museum.\n\n\"Khilwat Khana\" was built by Shah Jahan in 1633 to the east of the Shah Burj Pavilion, and west of the Shah Jahan Quadrangle. It was the residence of the royal ladies of the court. The plinth and door frames are made of marble with a curvilinear roof.\n\nIn the northwest corner of the Khilawat Khana stands the Kala Burj (\"Black Pavilion\"). The pavilion is the most significant of the Jahangir-era additions to the Lahore Fort. The vaulted ceilings in the pavilion feature paintings in a European-influenced style of angels which symbolize the virtuosity of King Solomon, who is regarded as the ideal ruler in the Quran, and a ruler with whom Jahangir identified. Angels directing \"djinns\" are also painted on tiles in the ceiling, which also reference King Solomon. Kala Burj was used as a summer pavilion.\n\nIn the northeast corner of the Khilawat Khana stands the Lal Burj (\"Red Pavilion\"). Like the nearby Kala Burj, the Lal Burj was built during the reign of Jahangir, though finished during the reign of Shah Jahan. Octagonal in shape, the Lal Burj was used as a summer pavilion. It features primary windows that opened to the north to catch cool breezes. The interior frescoes date mostly from the Sikh era, along with the entire upper level that was also added during the Sikh era.\n\nThe collection of buildings surrounding the quadrangle situated between Jahangir's Quadrangle and Khilawat Khana is referred to as Shah Jahan's Quadrangle.\n\nIn contrast to the Diwan-i-Aam, the Diwan-i-Khas served as a hall where the Emperor would attend to matters of the state, and where courtiers and state guests were received. The hall was site of elaborate pageantry, with processions of up to one hour long occurring before each audience session.\n\nKhwabgah was the bedroom of Shah Jahan. It was built by Shah Jahan under the supervision of Wazir Khan in 1634 during his first visit to the city. Five sleeping chambers are aligned in a single row. The chambers feature carved marble screens, and are decorated with inlaid white marble and frescoes, It is the first building built by Shah Jahan in the fort. At present its decorations have vanished except for a trace of the marble which once might have beautified the façade.\n\nJahangir's Quadrangle occupies the northeastern corner of the fort. Though named for Jahangir, construction on the site began during the reign of Akbar, but was completed in 1620 under Jahangir. Akbar's syncretic style is noted in the quadrangle, as it employs column brackets carved in the form of animals. The quadrangle's layout differs from other Mughal quadrangles which are based upon the layout of a Persian paradise garden, and instead is formed by concentric rectangles with a fountain in its centre.\n\nThe Diwan-i-Aam was built by Shah Jahan in 1628 in a prominent part of the fort immediately south of Jahangir's Quadrangle. It was built style of a \"Chehel Sotoun\" - a Persian style 40-pillar public audience hall, in a style similar to the Diwan-i-Aam at the Agra Fort. The Diwan-i-Aam was used a hall for the emperors to hold audience with commoners.\n\nShah Jahan's Diwan-i-Aam was destroyed in 1841 when the son of Maharaja Ranjit Singh, Sher Singh bombarded the fort in his fight against Maharani Chand Kaur, the wife of Mahraja Kharak Singh. The current structure was built by the British in the 1849 after their victory against the Sikhs.\n\nKharak Singh Haveli was the \"haveli\" of Kharak Singh, the heir to Ranjit Singh. It lies in the south-east of the Jahangir's Quadrangle. It was later occupied by the British where the first and the ground floor were used as a Commandant's Quarters and godown and servants house respectively. Currently it houses the archaeological survey office.\n\nThe Jahangir Quadrangle is bordered on its northern edge by Jahangir's sleeping chambers, the \"Bari Khwabgah\", which was largely reconstructed during the British era.\n\nThe Sikh-era \"Sehdari\" pavilion, or \"Three-doored\" pavilion, is located to the east of the \"Bari Khwabgah\". A second \"Sehdari\" pavilion was located to the west of the \"Bari Khwabgah\", but was subsequently destroyed during the British period. The surviving pavilion was used as an office for Faqir Syed Noor-ud-din, a trusted Governor of Ranjit Singh. The architectural style of the \"Sehdari\" pavilion is typical of the Sikh period. Frescoes decorating the pavilion portray floral designs, birds, and Hindu religious themes.\n\nThe Maktab Khana (\"Clerk's Quarters\") originally known as \"Dawlat Khana-e-Jahangir\", was constructed in 1617 under the supervision of Mamur Khan during the reign of Jahangir as a set of cloisters near the Moti Masjid. Designed by Khawaja Jahan Muhammad Dost, it was used as passage to the Audience Hall from the palace buildings to the north. Clerks in the Maktab Khana would also record the entry of guests into the fort. It features iwans in the Persian-Timurid style in each of its four sides. Each iwan is flanked by arches.\n\nThe Moti Masjid (), one of the \"Pearl Mosques\", is a mosque dating from the Shah Jahan Period that is located on the western side of Lahore Fort, closer to Alamgiri Gate. It is situated in the northwestern corner of \"Dewan-e-Aam\". The white marble structure is among his prominent extensions (such as Sheesh Mahal and Naulakha pavilion) to the Lahore Fort Complex. \"Moti\" in Urdu language means \"pearl\", which designates a perceived preciousness to the religious structure. It was an established practice among Mughal emperors to name the mosques after generic names for gemstones. The mosque, built between 1630–35, has three superimposed domes, two aisles of five bays, and a slightly raised central \"pishtaq\", or portal with a rectangular frame. This five-arched facade distinguishes it from other mosques of the similar class with three-arched facades. The interior is simple and plain with the exception of ceilings that are decorated and designed in four different orders, two arcuate, and two trabeated.\n\nAfter the demise of the Mughal Empire, the mosque was converted into a Sikh temple and renamed \"Moti Mandir\" during the period of the Sikh rule under Ranjit Singh's Sikh Confederacy. He later used the building for the state treasury. When the British took over Punjab in 1849, they discovered precious stones wrapped in bits of rags and placed in velvet purses scattered inside the mosque, along with other inventory.\n\nMughal Emperor Akbar built two gates. Akbari Gate was built in 1566 and now called Maseeti Gate.\n\nLocated at the western end of the fort, the Alamgiri Gate is the entrance of the Lahore Fort. It was built by Mughal emperor Aurangzeb in 1674. It has two semi-circular bastions where lotus petal design adorns its base. It opens to the Hazuri Bagh and faces the Badshahi Mosque. The gate is one of Lahore's most iconic monuments, and once featured on Pakistani currency.\n\nThe Naag temple is a Sikh temple built by Chand Kaur, the wife of Kharak Singh, daughter in law of the then ruling Maharaja Ranjit Singh. The temple is square in plan and built on a raised platform. Its exterior walls are covered with fresco paintings. The temple also has a water-melon shaped dome. The site is currently closed to the public in order to prevent further deterioration.\n\n\"Mai Jindan Haveli\" is of unknown origins and believed to be a Mughal structure but attributed to the Mai Jindan, Chand Kaur because of the extensive additions by the Sikhs. It is a two storied building where she is alleged to have been murdered. Presently this building is site of the Sikh Gallery Museum.\n\nIn 1980, Government of Pakistan nominated the fort for inclusion in UNESCO World Heritage Site based on the criteria i, ii, and iii together with the Shalimar. In the fifth meeting session held in Sydney in October 1981, the World Heritage Site committee added both the monuments to the list.\n\nIn 2000, Pakistan sent a letter to the organization to include both the sites in List of World Heritage in Danger and sought help to restore the damaged part of the outer walls and hydraulic works of Shalamar Gardens. In April 2006, it was reported that officials had urged UNESCO to remove the name of the fort from the list of endangered World Heritage Sites because of extensive restoration work funded by Norway, Hong Kong, the United Kingdom and France. Restoration projects included works at the Sheesh Mahal, Alamgiri Gate, and Hazuri Bagh. After years of extensive renovation and restoration work, the fort and Shalimar Gardens were removed from the endangered list in June 2012.\n\nThough in 1990, UNESCO had ordered the Punjab Archaeological Department to bar the use of the Fort for state or private functions on account of historical significance, a wedding reception was held in violation on December 23, 2010. The Antiquities Act of 1975, which prohibits the use of historical places to protect them from damage, was violated in the following month by hosting a dinner in the Diwan-i-Khas.\n\nConservation works at the Picture Wall began in 2015 by the Aga Khan Trust for Culture and Walled City of Lahore Authority. Documentation of the wall using 3D scanner was completed in July 2016, after which conservation work would start.\n\nUnder the new Local Government Act of Punjab, 2013, Shahi Qila also serves as a union council located in the Ravi Zone.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53204918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53204918", "title": "Massimo De Carlo", "text": "Massimo De Carlo\n\nMassimo De Carlo is an Italian art dealer, with gallery spaces in Milan, London, and Hong Kong.\n\nDe Carlo started working as a gallery assistant for Piero Cavellini in Brescia. In 1987 he opened his first gallery in Milan.\n\nIn 2016, he was included in Artnet's list of \"Europe's 10 Most Respected Art Dealers\".\n\nHis gallery represents artists such as Maurizio Cattelan, Rashid Johnson, Dan Colen, Rudolf Stingel, Paola Pivi, Carsten Höller and Paul Chan.\n\nIn 2009 De Carlo opened a gallery at 55 South Audley Street, in Mayfair, London.\n"}
{"id": "859412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=859412", "title": "Ministry (collective executive)", "text": "Ministry (collective executive)\n\nIn constitutional usage in Commonwealth realms and in some other systems, a ministry (usually preceded by the definite article, i.e., the ministry) is a collective body of government ministers headed by a prime minister or premier, and also referred to as the head of government. It is described by the Oxford Dictionary as \"a period of government under one prime minister\". Although the term \"cabinet\" can in some circumstances be a synonym, a ministry can be a broader concept which might include office-holders who do not participate in cabinet meetings. Other titles can include \"administration\" (in the United States) or \"government\" (in common usage among most parliamentary systems) to describe similar collectives.\n\nThe term is primarily used to describe the successive governments of the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia and New Zealand, which share a common parliamentary political heritage. In the United Kingdom, Australia and New Zealand, a new ministry begins after each election, regardless of whether the prime minister is re-elected, and whether there may have been a minor rearrangement of the ministry. For example, after winning the 1979 general election, Margaret Thatcher (as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom) formed the first Thatcher ministry. After being re-elected at the 1983 general election, she formed the second Thatcher ministry, and so on. In Canada, a new ministry is only formed if the government loses an election.\n\nDespite the use of the term \"ministry\" in this sense being rare in Portugal nowadays, until the first half of the 20th century, the term was frequently used in this country to designate the collective body of government ministers. From 1911 to 1933, the official title of the Prime Minister of Portugal was even that of \"President of the Ministry\" (), reflecting his role as the head of the collective ministry.\n"}
{"id": "55545323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55545323", "title": "Museum of Samarra", "text": "Museum of Samarra\n\n\" The Museum of Samarra\" is an under construction museum. It consists of three buildings built on an area of 227,700 square meters, costing 17 billion iraqi dinars\n\nThe construction of the museum started in 2014. It consists of three buildings: the first building consists of a basement and two floors. The second building consists of two parts. The first consists of a basement, a ground floor and a first upper floor, while the second comprises floors without a basement. the third building is an open area that includes architectural works.\n"}
{"id": "38284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38284", "title": "Musician", "text": "Musician\n\nA musician is a person who plays a musical instrument or is musically talented. Anyone who composes, conducts, or performs music is referred to as a musician. A musician who plays a musical instrument is also known as an instrumentalist.\n\nMusicians can specialize in any musical style, and some musicians play in a variety of different styles depending on cultures and background. Examples of a musician's possible skills include performing, conducting, singing, rapping, producing, composing, arranging, and the orchestration of music.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, instrumental musicians performed with soft ensembles inside and loud instruments outdoors. Many European musicians of this time catered to the Roman Catholic Church, and they provided arrangements structured around Gregorian chant structure and Masses from church texts.\n\n\nRenaissance musicians produced music that could be played during masses in churches and important chapels. Vocal pieces were in Latin—the language of church texts of the time—and typically were Church-polyphonic or \"made up of several simultaneous melodies.\" By the end of the 16th century, however, patronage split among many areas: the Catholic Church, Protestant churches, royal courts, wealthy amateurs, and music printing—all provided income sources for composers.\n\n\nThe Baroque period (about 1600 to 1750) introduced heavy use of counterpoint and basso continuo characteristics. Vocal and instrumental \"color\" became more important compared with the Renaissance style of music, and emphasized much of the volume, texture and pace of each piece.\n\n\nClassical music was created by musicians who lived during a time of a rising middle class. Many middle-class inhabitants of France at the time lived under long-time absolute monarchies. Because of this, much of the music was performed in environments that were more constrained compared with the flourishing times of the Renaissance and Baroque eras.\n\n\nThe foundation of Romantic period music coincides with what is often called the \"age of revolutions\", an age of upheavals in political, economic, social, and military traditions. This age included the initial transformations of the Industrial Revolution. A revolutionary energy was also at the core of Romanticism, which quite consciously set out to transform not only the theory and practice of poetry and art, but the common perception of the world. Some major Romantic Period precepts survive, and still affect modern culture.\n\n\nThe world transitioned from 19th-century Romanticism to 20th century Modernism, bringing major musical changes. In 20th-century music, composers and musicians rejected the emotion-dominated Romantic period, and strove to represent the world the way they perceived it. Musicians wrote to be \"...objective, while objects existed on their own terms. While past eras concentrated on spirituality, this new period placed emphasis on physicality and things that were concrete.\"\n\nThe advent of audio recording and mass media in the 20th century caused a boom of all kinds of music—pop, electronic, dance, rock, folk, country and all forms of classical music.\n\n"}
{"id": "4286622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4286622", "title": "Navya-Nyāya", "text": "Navya-Nyāya\n\nThe Navya-Nyāya or Neo-Logical \"darśana\" (view, system, or school) of Indian logic and Indian philosophy was founded in the 13th century CE by the philosopher Gangeśa Upādhyāya of Mithila and continued by Raghunatha Siromani. It was a development of the classical Nyāya \"darśana\". Other influences on Navya-Nyāya were the work of earlier philosophers Vācaspati Miśra (900–980 CE) and Udayana (late 10th century). It remained active in India through to the 18th century.\n\nGangeśa's book \"Tattvacintāmaṇi\" (\"Thought-Jewel of Reality\") was written partly in response to Śrīharśa's \"Khandanakhandakhādya\", a defence of Advaita Vedānta, which had offered a set of thorough criticisms of Nyāya theories of thought and language. In his book, Gangeśa both addressed some of those criticisms and – more important – critically examined the Nyāya \"darśana\" himself. He held that, while Śrīharśa had failed to successfully challenge the Nyāya realist ontology, his and Gangeśa's own criticisms brought out a need to improve and refine the logical and linguistic tools of Nyāya thought, to make them more rigorous and precise.\n\n\"Tattvacintāmani\" dealt with all the important aspects of Indian philosophy, logic, set theory, and especially epistemology, which Gangeśa examined rigorously, developing and improving the Nyāya scheme, and offering examples. The results, especially his analysis of cognition, were taken up and used by other \"darśanas\".\n\nNavya-Nyāya developed a sophisticated language and conceptual scheme that allowed it to raise, analyse, and solve problems in logic and epistemology. It systematised all the Nyāya concepts into four main categories (sense-)perception (\"pratyakşa\"), inference (\"anumāna\"), comparison or similarity (\"upamāna\"), and testimony (sound or word; \"śabda\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2993593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2993593", "title": "Nigel Barley (anthropologist)", "text": "Nigel Barley (anthropologist)\n\nNigel Barley (born 1947 in Kingston upon Thames, England) is an anthropologist famous for the books he has written on his experiences. His reputation was established with his first book, \"The Innocent Anthropologist\" (1983), a witty account of anthropological field work in Cameroon. After working in Africa and writing more books about his time there, he moved to Indonesia, where he wrote in a variety of genres: travel, art, historical biography, and fiction. His first book there, the humorous \"Not a Hazardous Sport\" (1989), described his anthropological experiences in Tana Toraja.\n\nBarley studied modern languages at Cambridge University and completed a doctorate in social anthropology at Oxford University. He held a number of academic positions before joining the British Museum as an assistant keeper in the Department of Ethnography, where he remained until 2003.\n\nBarley's first book, \"The Innocent Anthropologist\" (1983), was a witty and informative account of anthropological field work among the Dowayo people of Cameroon. The anthropologist Tony Waters calls it a memorably written story, and writes that it is the book he gets students to read for an understanding of \"field work, ethnography, and cultural anthropology.\" Waters says he truly admires the book as it gives a realistic idea of field experience, but \"Oddly, I find few anthropologists who have read it, much less heard of it.\"\n\nThis was followed by other books about Africa including \"A Plague of Caterpillars\" (1986) and \"Ceremony\" (1987).\n\nBarley then spent some years in Indonesia, branching out into other genres: travel, art, historical biography, and fiction. His first book based on his time there was the humorous \"Not a Hazardous Sport\" (1989) describing his experiences in Tana Toraja in the mountains of Sulawesi, the non-sport in question again being anthropology.\n\nBarley has been twice nominated for the Travelex Writer of the Year Award. In 2002, he won the Foreign Press Association prize for travel writing.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19068331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19068331", "title": "Ninety from the Nineties", "text": "Ninety from the Nineties\n\nNinety from the Nineties: A Decade of Printing was an exhibition held at the New York Public Library from November 7, 2003 through May 28, 2004.\n\n\"Ninety from the Nineties\" showcased a selection of ninety books made in the 1990s that were chosen on the merit of book arts. Note that the books were not necessarily written in the 1990s; some were older texts that were used to make special books in the 1990s. And, the books were not selected on literary merit.\n\nIn a contemporary review, \"The New York Times\" described the concept of the selection like this: \"books, which we are accustomed to thinking of as containers — and conveyers — of information, are placed in a context in which form is valued over content. Language is less important than the type that impresses it on the page. The paper counts for more than the story told on it. The illustrations and the binding might be the story.\"\n\nThe books were divided into five categories: binding, paper, type, illustration and \"inspiration.\" The exhibition was curated by Virginia Bartow.\n\nFollowing is a list of the ninety books selected and shown in the exhibition. The source for this list is the exhibition catalogue.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3446730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3446730", "title": "Paleo-Arctic Tradition", "text": "Paleo-Arctic Tradition\n\nThe Paleo-Arctic Tradition is the name given by archaeologists to the cultural tradition of the earliest well-documented human occupants of the North American Arctic, which date from the period 8000–5000 BC. The tradition covers Alaska and expands far into the east, west, and the Southwest Yukon Territory.\n\nThe Upward Sun River site, a Late Pleistocene archaeological site associated with the Paleo-Arctic Tradition, located in the Tanana Valley, Alaska has now been dated to around 11,500 BP. Upward Sun River is the site of the oldest human remains discovered on the American side of Beringia.\n\nAround 8000 BC, Alaska was still connected to Siberia with the landbridge, located in the current Bering Strait. People who inhabited this region in Alaska were of the Dyuktai tradition, originally located in Siberia. Eventually, the Dyuktai changed into the Sumnagin culture, a hunting/fishing group, whose culture was defined by possessing a new technology. Other cultures flourished as well, all being placed under the general category of the Paleo-Arctic tradition. \n\nThe Paleo-Arctic is mostly known for lithic remains (stone technology). Some artifacts found include microblades, small wedge-shaped cores, some leaf-shaped bifaces, scrapers, and graving tools. The microblades were used as hunting weapons and were mounted in wood, antler, or bone points. Paleo-Arctic stone specialists also created bifaces that were used as tools and as cores for the production of large artifact blanks. Little evidence remains of the culture's settlement patterns, because many of the settlements were inundated by the rising sea levels of the Holocene; however, remains of stone tools were discovered, giving indirect evidence of settlement sites.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27460908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27460908", "title": "Performance Writing", "text": "Performance Writing\n\nPerformance Writing was pioneered at Dartington College of Arts in Devon, UK as a radical new approach to writing. It is a multi-modal approach which explores through artistic practice how writing interacts with other art forms and practices — visual art, sound art, time-based media, installation, electronic literature, bookworks, and performance art.\n\nPerformance Writing was inaugurated as a Bachelor of Arts undergraduate course at Dartington College of Arts in 1994. The course was written, and the field developed, by a number of self-described Performance Writers and academics including John Hall, Ric Allsopp, Caroline Bergvall, Aaron Williamson, Brigid Mc Leer, Alaric Sumner, Redell Olsen, cris cheek, Peter Jager, Barbara Bridger, Melanie Thompson, Jerome Fletcher, and many others, and enriched by an program of visiting artists from around the world.\n\nAs a result of the merger of DCA and University College Falmouth ( now Falmouth University in 2010, the undergraduate Performance Writing course was relocated to a new performance centre at Tremough Campus (now Penryn Campus) near Penryn, Cornwall. The course ceased taking applications for new students from 2010 onwards pending a reconfiguration of its Performance Writing courses. Recruitment has not resumed.\n\nThe Falmouth University post-graduate Master of Arts course in Performance Writing led by Associate Professor of Performance Writing Jerome Fletcher ran for two years at the Arnolfini in Bristol. Recruitment to the MA Performance Writing was ceased in 2012. Performance Writing continues at the postgraduate and research level at Falmouth University.\n\nThe democratic, inclusive, and above all extensible nature of Performance Writing methodology has led to its adoption and adaptation by both independent and academic researchers, practitioners, pedagogs, and institutions in places as far flung as Oakland, California and The Banff Centre in Canada. In the UK, Performance Writing methodologies and sensibilities have spread – primarily through graduates of the program at Dartington – into a rich diversity of artistic forms and institutional formulations.\n\nAs an emerging field, its definition and limits are the subject of ongoing debate. John Hall's lecture \"Thirteen Ways of Talking about Performance Writing\", explores definition as a process, using playful and precise language to establish the complexity of reflexive descriptions: a performance of writing about writing as such.\n\nAt the symposium launching the field, Performance Writing was described by Caroline Bergvall as exploring \"relationships between textual and text-based work when developed in conjunction with other media and discourses.\", and opening \"the investigation of formal and ideological strategies which writers and artists develop textually in response or in reaction to their own time and their own fields\"\n\nShe also understood it as \"not primarily [a] unified academic discipline [or] one delineated, hybridic artform\", but rather as an \"area of joint practical and critical investigation of the many uses writing and language are being put to and push themselves into.\"\n\nPerformance Writing events so far include two symposia; one at Dartington College of Arts in 1996 and a second at the Theatre School in Utrecht in 1999.\n\nIn May 2010 Bristol's Arnolfini, in collaboration with University College Falmouth, held \"PW10\": a weekend of Performance Writing themed talks, readings, and artistic works exploring interdisciplinary approaches to language and textuality. It was timed to coincide with the exhibition \"Say: \"Parsley\"\" by Performance Writing co-founder Caroline Bergvall and Ciaran Maher. It included works by Allen Fisher, Drew Milne, David Prior (artist), Jason Nelson, J.R. Carpenter. In May 2012 PW12 was held at Arnolfini.\n"}
{"id": "23489390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23489390", "title": "Robert Sheckley short stories bibliography", "text": "Robert Sheckley short stories bibliography\n\nThis article presents an incomplete list of short stories by Robert Sheckley, arranged alphabetically by title.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24223638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24223638", "title": "Sea Turtle Conservancy", "text": "Sea Turtle Conservancy\n\nThe Sea Turtle Conservancy (STC), formerly known as Caribbean Conservation Corporation is an American not-for-profit 501(c)(3) membership organization based in Gainesville, Florida. STC was incorporated, based on an earlier informal organization known as \"The Brotherhood of the Green Turtle\", in 1959 by Mr. Joshua B. Powers in response to renowned ecologist Dr. Archie Carr's award-winning book, \"The Windward Road\", which first alerted the world to the plight of sea turtles. Dr. Carr served as Scientific Director of STC from 1959 until his death in 1987. Since its founding, STC's research and conservation initiatives have been instrumental in saving the Caribbean green sea turtle from immediate extinction, as well as raising awareness and protection for sea turtles across the globe with 50 years of experience in national and international sea turtle conservation, research and educational endeavors. The organization began its work in Costa Rica, but has expanded its research and conservation efforts throughout Central America and the wider Caribbean.\n\nSTC works to enact protective laws and establish refuges for the preservation of sea turtle habitats and coastal environments. The organization was instrumental in creating the Tortuguero National Park in Costa Rica. In the United States, STC worked with other groups and agencies to establish the Archie Carr National Wildlife Refuge in Melbourne, Florida and continues to lobby Congress and government agencies to purchase the lands necessary to complete the refuge. STC's international efforts include advocating for sea turtles at the United Nations Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species, and protecting one of the most important sea turtle nesting beaches in the world by helping prevent off-shore oil-drilling in Costa Rica.\n\nSTC continues the work of Dr. Archie Carr every year on the 35 km black sand beach of Tortuguero, Costa Rica, the nesting site of more endangered green sea turtles than anywhere else in the Western Hemisphere. For more than 40 years, this monitoring program has provided much information on the reproductive ecology and migratory habits of sea turtles. Researchers, who are based at STC's John H. Phipps Biological Field Station, continue to monitor nesting trends, growth rates and reproductive success.\n\nIn 2003, STC began working to protect and restore the once globally significant hawksbill sea turtle nesting population at Chiriquí Beach, Panama. The program consists of intensive monitoring of hawksbill and leatherback sea turtle nesting activity, protection of nesting females and their nests, and public education in the region.\n\nSTC has supported hundreds of research projects on the biology and conservation of sea turtles around the world. Recent studies have focused on impacts of tourism on nesting beaches, the levels of turtle harvesting at feeding grounds, satellite tracking of turtles, and monitoring of juvenile turtles around Bermuda.\n\nSTC also supports a bird banding and monitoring project that was begun in Tortuguero in 1991 as part of the \"Partners in Flight\" program, in association with Costa Rican and North American ornithologists. Resident and neotropical migrant bird species are surveyed in natural and disturbed habitats of the area and vital statistics are collected. The project also seeks to train Latin American wildlife biologists in ornithological field techniques.\n\nSTC works with coastal residents, businesses, conservationists and governments to increase awareness of the threats facing sea turtles, including coastal development, pollution, poaching and accidental capture in nets. STSL developed an educational program that uses the internet to allow school children and others around the world to learn about sea turtles as they follow the movements of turtles being tracked by satellite. More than 300,000 children around the world have been reached by this program already.\n\nIn Tortuguero, Costa Rica, CCC operates the H. Clay Frick Natural History Visitor Center to inform the more than 40,000 people who visit every year about the importance of the region's habitats to the survival of sea turtles, manatees and other tropical wildlife.\n\nThe STC is also a partner in a new environmental education center at the heart of Eastern Florida's Archie Carr National Wildlife Refuge.\n\nSTC provides training in the management and stewardship of sea turtles and coastal ecosystems. Graduates of previous training programs now lead conservation efforts in over 25 countries around the world.\n\nAugust 26, 2009 letter with 300+ Groups Ask Senate for Stronger Climate Bill, included the STC.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1297137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1297137", "title": "Sheep shearing", "text": "Sheep shearing\n\nSheep shearing is the process by which the woollen fleece of a sheep is cut off. The person who removes the sheep's wool is called a \"shearer\". Typically each adult sheep is shorn once each year (a sheep may be said to have been \"shorn\" or \"sheared\", depending upon dialect). The annual shearing most often occurs in a shearing shed, a facility especially designed to process often hundreds and sometimes more than 3,000 sheep per day.\n\nSheep are shorn in all seasons, depending on the climate, management requirements and the availability of a woolclasser and shearers. Ewes are normally shorn prior to lambing, but consideration is typically made as to the welfare of the lambs by not shearing during cold climate winters. Shorn sheep tolerate frosts well, but young sheep especially will suffer in cold, wet windy weather (even in cold climate summers). In this event they are shedded for several nights until the weather clears. Some sheep may also be shorn with stud combs which leave more wool on the animal, giving greater protection.\n\nSheep shearing is also considered a sport with competitions held around the world.\nIt is often done between spring and summers\n\nThe wealth of ancient Knossos, Europe's oldest city, derived from its sheep wool industry. The largest group of Linear B tablets is the great archive principally of shearing records though also of sheep breeding.\n\nThe medieval English wool trade was one of the most important factors in the English economy. The main sheep-shearing was an annual midsummer (June) event in medieval England culminating in the sheep-shearing feast. It had always been conventional practice to wash sheep.\nIn Australia, up until the 1870s, squatters washed their sheep in nearby creeks prior to shearing. Later some expensive hot water installations were constructed on some of the larger stations for the washing. Australian growers were influenced by the Spanish practice of washing their very fine wool after shearing. There were three main reasons for the custom in Australia:\n\n\nThe practice of washing the wool rather than the sheep evolved from the fact that hotter water could be used to wash the wool, than that used to wash the sheep. When the practice of selling wool in the grease occurred in the 1890s, wool washing became obsolete.\n\nAustralia and New Zealand had to discard the old methods of wool harvesting and evolve more efficient systems to cope with the huge numbers of sheep involved. Shearing was revolutionized by the invention of an Australian sheepgrower, Frederick York Wolseley. His machines made in Birmingham England by his business The Wolseley Sheep Shearing Machine Company were introduced after 1888, reducing second cuts and shearing time. By 1915 most large sheep station sheds in Australia had installed machines, driven by steam or later by internal combustion engines.\n\nShearing tables were invented in the 1950s and have not proved popular, although some are still used for crutching.\n\nIn the US, the worldwide shortage of shearers is becoming a consideration for those wanting to expand wool production. With sheep numbers declining in that country the profession sees significantly less interest in becoming a qualified shearer. Importing labour during the Australian off-season has also become problematic because of delays in obtaining work visa and because shearers numbers are limited worldwide.\n\nToday large flocks of sheep are mustered, inspected and possibly treated for parasites such as lice before shearing can start. then shorn by professional shearing teams working eight-hour days, most often in spring, by machine shearing. These contract-teams consist of shearers, shed hands and a cook (in the more isolated areas). Their working hours and wages are regulated by industry awards. A working day starts at 7:30 am and the day is divided into four \"runs\" of two hours each. \"Smoko\" breaks are a half-hour each and a lunch break is taken at midday for one hour. Most shearers are paid on a piece-rate per sheep. Shearers who \"tally\" more than 200 sheep per day are known as \"gun shearers\". Typical mass shearing of sheep today follows a well-defined workflow: \nIn 1984 Australia became the last country in the world to permit the use of wide combs, due to previous Australian Workers' Union rules. Although they were once rare in sheds, women now take a large part in the shearing industry by working as pressers, wool rollers, rouseabouts, wool classers and shearers.\n\nA sheep is caught by the shearer, from the catching pen, and taken to his \"stand\" on the shearing board. It is shorn using a mechanical handpiece (see \"Shearing devices\" below). The wool is removed by following an efficient set of movements, devised by Godfrey Bowen in about 1950 (the \"Bowen Technique\") or the \"Tally-Hi\" method developed in 1963 and promoted by the Australian Wool Corporation. Sheep struggle less using the Tally-Hi method, reducing strain on the shearer and there is a saving of about 30 seconds in shearing each one.\n\nThe shearer begins by removing the belly wool, which is separated from the main fleece by a rouseabout, while the sheep is still being shorn. A professional or \"gun\" shearer typically removes a fleece, without significantly marking or cutting the sheep, in two to three minutes, depending on the size and condition of the sheep—less than two minutes in elite-competitive shearing. The shorn sheep is released and removed from the board via a chute in the floor or in a wall, to an exterior counting-out pen.\n\nThe CSIRO in Australia has developed a non-mechanical method of shearing sheep using an injected protein that creates a natural break in the wool fibres. After fitting a retaining net to enclose the wool, sheep are injected with the protein. When the net is removed after a week, the fleece has separated and is removed by hand. In some breeds a similar process occurs naturally\n\nOnce the entire fleece has been removed from the sheep, the fleece is \"thrown\", clean side down, on to a wool table by a shed hand (commonly known in New Zealand and Australian sheds as a \"rouseabout\" or \"rousie\"). The wool table top consists of slats spaced approximately 12 cm apart. This enables short pieces of wool, the \"locks\" and other debris, to gather beneath the table separately from the fleece. The fleece is then \"skirted\" by one or more wool rollers to remove the sweat fribs and other less desirable parts of the fleece. The removed pieces largely consist of shorter, seeded, burry or dusty wool etc. which is still useful in the industry. As such they are placed in separate containers and sold along with fleece wool. Other items removed from the fleece on the table, such as faeces, skin fragments or twigs and leaves, are discarded a short distance from the wool table so as not to contaminate the wool and fleece.\n\nFollowing the skirting of the fleece, it is folded, rolled and examined for its quality in a process known as wool classing, which is performed by a registered and qualified wool classer. Based on its type, the fleece is placed into the relevant wool bin ready to be pressed (mechanically compressed) when there is sufficient wool to make a wool bale.\n\nIn some primitive sheep (for example in many Shetlands), there is a natural break in the growth of the wool in spring. By late spring this causes the fleece to begin to peel away from the body, and it may then be plucked by hand without cutting – this is known as \"rooing\". Individual sheep may reach this stage at slightly different times.\n\nWhatever device is used, shearers must be careful to keep it clean so as to prevent the spread of disease amongst a flock.\n\nBlade shearing has recently made a resurgence in Australia and the UK but mostly for sport rather than commercial shearing. Some competitions have attracted almost 30 competitors and there have even been shows created just for blade shearers to compete in.\n\nBlade shears consist of two blades arranged similarly to scissors except that the hinge is at the end farthest from the point (not in the middle). The cutting edges pass each other as the shearer squeezes them together and shear the wool close to the animal's skin. Blade shears are still used today but in a more limited way. Blade shears leave some wool on a sheep and this is more suitable for cold climates such as the Canterbury high country in the South Island of New Zealand where approximately half a million sheep are still shorn with blade shears each year. For those areas where no powered-machinery is available blade shears are the only option. In Australia blades are more commonly used to shear stud rams.\n\nMachine shears, known as handpieces, operate in a similar manner to human hair clippers in that a power-driven toothed blade, known as a cutter, is driven back and forth over the surface of a comb and the wool is cut from the animal. The original machine shears were powered by a fixed hand-crank linked to the handpiece by a shaft with only two universal joints, which afforded a very limited range of motion. Later models have more joints to allow easier positioning of the handpiece on the animal. Electric motors on each stand have generally replaced overhead gear for driving the handpieces. The jointed arm is replaced in many instances with a flexible shaft. Smaller motors allowed the production of shears in which the motor is in the handpiece; these are generally not used by professional shearers as the weight of the motor and the heat generated by it becomes bothersome with long use.\n\nAnimal welfare organizations have raised concerns about the abuse of sheep during shearing, and have advocated against the selling and buying of wool products.\n\nIn 2013, an anonymous shearer reported instances of animal abuse by workers, an allegation to which an Australian Worker's Union representative added that he had witnessed \"shearers gouge eyes and break sheep jaws.\" Australian Wool Innovation insisted that animal welfare was a priority among shearers. The following year, the RSPCA began a cruelty investigation following the release of video footage that PETA said was taken in more than a dozen shearing sheds in New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. \"The Guardian\" reported that the video showed, \"sheep being roughly handled, punched in the face and stamped upon. One sheep was beaten with a hammer while another was shown having a deep cut crudely sewn up.\"\nThe Shearing Contractors Association of Australia \"applauded\" the investigation, and Wool Producers Australia president Geoff Fisken said the behavior shown in the video was \"unacceptable and unsupportable\" but that \"we're sure it doesn't portray the 99.9% majority of wool shearers – and those shearers would be appalled by it as well\".\n\nA culture has evolved out of the practice of sheep shearing, especially in post-colonial Australia and New Zealand. The sheep-shearing feast is the setting for Act IV of Shakespeare's \"A Winter's Tale\". Thomas Tusser provides doggerel verse for the occasion:\nWife make us a dinner, spare flesh neither corne,<br>\nMake wafers and cakes, for our sheepe must be shorne,<br>\nAt sheep shearing neighbors none other thing craue,<br>\nbut good cheer and welcome, like neighbors to haue\"\n\n\"Shearing the Rams\", a painting by Australian painter Tom Roberts is like an icon for the livestock-growing culture or \"life on the land\" in Australia. It was parodied in Michael Leunig's \"Ramming the Shears\". The expression that Australia's wealth rode on \"the sheep's back\" in parts of the twentieth century no longer has the currency it once had.\n\nIn 2001, Mandy Francis of Hardy's Bay, Australia, constructed a blackbutt seat for the Street Furniture Project at Walcha, NSW, Australia. This seat was inspired by the combs, cutters, wool tables and grating associated with the craft and industry of shearing.\n\nDuring Australia's long weekend in June 2010, 111 machine shearers and 78 blade shearers shore 6,000 Merino ewes and 178 rams at the historic 72 stand \"North Tuppal\" station. Along with the shearers there were 107 wool handlers and penners-up and more than 10,000 visitors to witness this event in the restored shed. Over this weekend the scene in Tom Robert's \"Shearing of the Rams\" was twice re-enacted for the visitors.\n\nMany stations across Australia no longer carry sheep due to lower wool prices, drought and other disasters, but their shearing sheds remain, in a wide variety of materials and styles, and have been the subject of books and documentation for heritage authorities. Some farmers are reluctant to remove either the equipment or the sheds, and many unused sheds remain intact.\n\nSheep shearing and wool handling competitions are held regularly in parts of the world, particularly Ireland, the UK, South Africa, New Zealand and Australia. As sheep shearing is an arduous task, speed shearers, for all types of equipment and sheep, are usually very fit and well trained. In Wales a sheep shearing contest is one of the events of the Royal Welsh Show, the country's premier agricultural show held near Builth Wells.\n\nThe world's largest sheep shearing and wool handling contest, the Golden Shears, is held in the Wairarapa district, New Zealand.\n\nThe shearing World Championships are hosted by different countries every 2–3 years and eight different countries have hosted the event. The first World Championships were held at the Bath & West showground, England, in 1977, and the first Machine-Shearing winner was Roger Cox from New Zealand. Other countries that have hosted the sheep shearing World Championships have been New Zealand (3 times), England (3 times), Australia (2 times), Wales, Ireland, Scotland, South Africa & Norway. Out of 13 World Championships, New Zealand have won the team Machine contest 10 times, and famous New Zealand sheep-shearer David Fagan has been World Champion a record 5 times.\n\nIn October, 2008 the event was hosted in Norway. It was the first time ever that the event was hosted by a non-English speaking country. The newly crowned World Machine Shearing champion is Paul Avery from New Zealand. New Zealand also won the team event, and the traditional blade-shears World Champion is Ziewilelle Hans from South Africa. A record 29 countries competed at the 2008 event. The next World Championship will be held at the Royal Welsh Show, Llanelwedd, Wales in July, 2010. \n\nWorld Shearing Championships results are\nWorld Blade Shearing has been dominated by South African and Lesotho shearers, Fine Wool machine shearing dominated by Australian shearers, and New Zealand dominating the Strong Wool machine shearing.\n\n\n Sheep shearing information, Training, Competitions, World Shearing Records, World Shearing Championships\n"}
{"id": "1374409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1374409", "title": "Stone row", "text": "Stone row\n\nA stone row (or stone alignment), is a linear arrangement of upright, parallel megalithic standing stones set at intervals along a common axis or series of axes, usually dating from the later Neolithic or Bronze Age. Rows may be individual or grouped, and three or more stones aligned can constitute a stone row.\n\nStone rows can be few metres or several kilometres in length and made from stones that can be as tall as 2m, although 1m high stones are more common. The terminals of many rows have the largest stones and other megalithic features are sometimes sited at the ends, especially burial cairns. The stones are placed at intervals and may vary in height along the sequence, to provide a graduated appearance, though it is not known whether this was done deliberately. Stone rows were erected by the later Neolithic and Bronze Age peoples in the British Isles, parts of Scandinavia and northern France. \n\nThe most famous example is the Carnac stones, a complex of stone rows around Carnac in Brittany. There are a number of examples on Dartmoor including the row at Stall Down and three rows at Drizzlecombe and the Hill O Many Stanes in Caithness. In Britain they are exclusively found in isolated moorland areas. The term alignment is sometimes taken to imply that the rows were placed purposely in relation to other factors such as other monuments or topographical or astronomical features. Archaeologists treat stone rows as discrete features however and alignment refers to the stones being lined up with one another rather than anything else. Their purpose is thought to be religious or ceremonial perhaps marking a processual route. Another theory is that each generation would erect a new stone to contribute to a sequence that demonstrated a people's continual presence.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28222238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28222238", "title": "The Wide World Magazine", "text": "The Wide World Magazine\n\nThe Wide World Magazine was a British monthly illustrated publication which ran from April 1898 to December 1965. \n\nThe magazine was founded by well-known publisher George Newnes, also famous for \"Tit-Bits\", \"The Strand Magazine\", \"Country Life\" and others. It described itself as \"an illustrated magazine of true narrative\" and each month purported to feature \"true-life\" adventure and travel stories gathered from around the world. Its motto was \"Truth is stranger than fiction\".\n\nIn August 1898, it published the first in a number of installments of \"The Adventures of Louis de Rougemont\", billed as \"the most amazing story a man ever lived to tell\", and claiming to be an account of a man who had spent thirty years in the outback of Australia. The story caused a sensation, but was exposed as a hoax by the \"Daily Chronicle\", to the embarrassment of the publisher.\n\nSome famous names occasionally wrote for the magazine (such as Arthur Conan Doyle, Henry Morton Stanley, Douglas Reeman etc.), and it was copiously illustrated with photographs, as well as black and white drawings by such artists as Terence Cuneo, Cecil Stuart Tresilian, Alfred Pearse, Chas Sheldon, Paul Hardy, William Barnes Wollen, John L. Wimbush, Charles J. Staniland, Joseph Finnemore, John Charlton, Warwick Goble, Tom Browne, Ernest Prater, Gordon Browne, Edward S Hodgson, Norman H. Hardy, Inglis Sheldon Williams, and Harry Rountree.\n\nThe May 1913 issue contained the first reports of the death of notorious outlaw Butch Cassidy in Bolivia.\n\n\"The Times\", in retrospect, humorously described the magazine as about \"brave chaps with large moustaches on stiff upper lips, who did stupid and dangerous things\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21512200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21512200", "title": "Theatrical makeup", "text": "Theatrical makeup\n\nTheatrical makeup is makeup that is used to assist in creating the appearance of the characters that actors portray during a theater production.\n\nIn Greek and Roman theatre, makeup was unnecessary. Actors wore various masks, allowing them to portray another gender, age, or entirely different likeness. Thespis, considered to be the first actor, used white lead and wine to paint his face. In medieval Europe, actors altered their appearances by painting their faces a different color. Performers who portrayed God painted their faces white or gold; actors playing angels painted their faces red. During the Renaissance, actors were creative and resourceful when making-over their faces. They used lamb's wool for false beards and flour as face paint.\n\nAdvancements in stage lighting technology required stage makeup to evolve beyond one over-all face color to a multidimensional craft. Originally, theatres used candles and oil lamps; these two sources of light were dim and allowed for crude, unrealistic makeup applications. Once gas lighting, limelight and electric light were introduced to theatres, a need emerged for new makeup materials and more skillful application techniques. In 1873, Ludwig Leichner, a Wagnerian opera singer, began commercially producing a non-toxic greasepaint stick, easing the application of makeup.\n\nThrough the use of makeup, specifically highlighting and shading, the apparent shape of an actor’s face can be changed. By highlighting the face's protruding bones, the features become pronounced; shadowing cavities can add depth. Sagging jowls, forehead wrinkles, eye pouches, and prominent veins can be created by manipulating highlights and shadows. A highlight is a base makeup that is at least two shades lighter than the base. It is applied on the bridge of the nose, cheekbones, and areas under the eyes and below the brows. Using a color two shades deeper than the base provides depth and definition. This depth is commonly used on the eye sockets, to thin the sides of the nose, to shallow the cheeks, and to minimize heaviness under the chin.\n\nLighting controls makeup to a high degree. Makeup can lose its effectiveness due to incorrect stage lighting. Conversely, skillful lighting can greatly aid the art of makeup. Close communication between the lighting director and the makeup artist is crucial for the best possible effect.\n\nUnderstanding light's effect on makeup and various shades and pigments is important when designing a performer’s makeup. The following are among the basic rules of light: nothing has color until light is reflected from it; an object appears black when all of the light is absorbed; an object appears white when all of the light is reflected. If certain rays are absorbed and others are reflected, the reflected rays determine the color.\n\n\nStraight makeup is a style of makeup that provides a natural, clean and healthy glow.\n\nIf a performer’s skin is perfectly toned, makeup spreads smoothly and adheres easily. Dry skin or oily skin is dealt with prior to makeup application; otherwise, the makeup appears blotchy or smeared due to variations in absorption. Performers with dry skin use a moisturizer daily and after their faces have been cleansed following a performance. Performers with oily complexions use a facial toner wipe or astringent to remove the oil and allow a smooth application.\n\nSkin has four basic tones: brown, fair, pink and olive. Individuals with fair, pink, and olive skin tones use olive, beige, or suntan bases. Makeup artist and performers select shades compatible with the natural skin tone, but the base is one to several shades deeper. Performers with predominately pink or ruddy complexions use base colors with cool undertones. The character, size of the theatre, and light intensity will determine the tone depth of the foundation.\n\nA thin layer of base makeup is applied to the neck, ears, and face using a white rubber sponge or fingers. A heavy application of base appears aged and creepy.\n\nFair complexions are enhanced by soft shades of peach and pink, while brown complexions are best accented with coral shades. Moist rouge is applied before powder; dry rouge is used to accent the already powdered makeup.\n\nEyes and eyebrows are the greatest communicative tool in an actor’s arsenal. They are the most expressive feature on the face.\n\nGrease or stick shadow is applied to the eyelids and blended out toward the eyebrow bone before powder is applied; dry eye shadow is used alone or to intensify and touch up the color underneath. Dark eye shadow or grease deepens the eye sockets, creating a skull-like effect. Shades of brown and gray are best for individuals with fair complexions. Individuals with brown complexions use lighter shadows such as toast, mushroom or soft yellows.\n\nLiquid eyeliner, cake eyeliner, or the eyebrow pencil is used to accent and frame the eyes. There are two ways to line the upper lid of the eye: the owl eye or the almond eye. The owl eye is used to widen the eye and involves using a heavier line in the middle of the lid. The almond-shaped eye is created by extending the line out beyond the outer corner of the eye. The lower line is created by using the same tool used on the upper lid. The line begins a quarter-inch from the inner corner of the eye. This extra space is needed to open the eye.\n\nMascara is used to add extra attention to the eyes. Black lash mascara is the most popular and commonly used by women with fair and brown complexions. Very fair individuals and men use brown mascara. The bottom lashes are coated with mascara and to avoid using false lashes, a process of layering powder and mascara is used to provide greater thickness.\n\nA generous amount of powder is needed to reduce unwanted shine. If a performer’s makeup is under-powdered, his skin oils will break through quickly, producing shine and possibly running. After powder is applied to the entire face, starting under and around the eyes, it is gently pressed for thirty seconds. The excess is brushed off with a large soft brush or piece of cotton. A wet natural sponge or cotton is wiped lightly across the face to set the makeup, to remove any visible powder, and to eliminate the masky feeling.\n\nThough the eyes are the most expressive feature of the face, the eyes and ears of the audience follow mouth movements to understand a play’s progression. If a performer’s lips are underdone or overplayed, they will detract from the performer and the performance. A general rule is: the larger the mouth, the deeper the lipstick tone. However, the actor should not appear “all mouth”.\n\nFair complexions use shades of lipstick like pink and coral. Brown complexions are enhanced by coral and orange shades. Red lipsticks are reserved for large theatres and character portrayals. An auburn or brown pencil are used to provide definition to the lips. Lipsticks on men can look doll-like. Men use natural-colored lipsticks, lightly applied.\n\nBecause stage actors are seen from farther away than actors on screen, it is crucial that their makeup is more dramatic and professionally done. Many higher-learning institutions have drama departments where all aspects of theater are taught, including the art of theatrical makeup. Some independent agencies also provide classes in theatrical makeup, and online courses are also available. Through training, makeup artists learn important techniques such as hand-eye coordination, ability to draw straight lines and consistent shapes, creativity, good grooming and personal hygiene habits, etc. Many makeup artists who specialize in theatrical makeup build portfolios to show their clients and employers. Many of them work as freelance makeup artists or work for cosmetics brands in department stores.\n\n"}
{"id": "31557107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31557107", "title": "William Slater Calverley", "text": "William Slater Calverley\n\nThe Rev. William Slater Calverley (1847–1898) was an unassuming rural English vicar who through diligent study and painstaking scrutiny became an extraordinary amateur antiquarian. Although born in Leicestershire, Calverley claimed his fame through interpreting the carved sculptured relics that he and others found in Cumberland churchyards. He made intricate drawings, corresponded with academic authorities, and gave his own interpretation to meaning, which he then relayed to a wider audience. Calverley later reproduced in intricate detail a life-sized reproduction of the famous Gosforth Cross, which now stands in Aspatria churchyard.\n\nWilliam Slater Calverley (1847–1898) was born at Kibworth, Leicestershire in 1847. After completing his formal education he entered New College, Oxford, but left to take up private tuition before attaining his degree. During this period he began to study art at the South Kensington School of Art and according to contemporary reports could have achieved the gold medal but for illness. This period of study proved very useful later in life. Notwithstanding his artistic ability he chose to enter the church. He was ordained deacon by Bishop Goodwin at Carlisle, Cumberland, in 1872 and afterwards became curate of Eskdale parish, South Cumberland. In the following year he took priest's orders and assumed an appointment as curate at Maryport, moving in 1874 to Dearham, where he served three years as curate and eight years as vicar of the same church. Under his guidance the church was restored, the vicarage and church yard enlarged and improved, and the district church at Ellenborough founded. In 1885, he became vicar of St. Kentigern's Church, Aspatria. One important feature of his pastorate of Aspatria was the acquisition of a peal of bells for the church.\n\nCalverley ignited an interest in local and ancient history during the church restorations at Dearham, which brought to light remains of ancient art. Through the study of pre-Norman stones and artefacts he became one of the world's foremost antiquarian scholars. After finding several pre-Norman sculptures he contacted leading authorities, and formed a close working relationship with the English born professor, George Stephens of Copenhagen University. Stephens incorporated and embodied Calverley's discoveries and descriptions into one of the chapters of his book \"Old Northern Runic Monuments\" The communications with Stephens encouraged Calverley to delve deeper into the subject and in 1883 he announced to the Archaeological Institute at Carlisle, his reading of Edda myths on the Christian cross at Gosforth, West Cumberland. The news created a sensation; prior to these discovery authorities held that Christian monuments contained nothing but Christian subjects. Although others had tried to make a connection with Buddhism, Druidism, and Astronomy, Calverley identified the 'Pagan overlap' in English relics. His critics were finally silenced after the Rev. G. F. Browne (later Bishop of Bristol) published his research into the meaning of the Scandinavian legends on the cross at Leeds, and the one at Kirk Andreas, Isle of Man. In February 1891, Calverley interpreted the Völsung myth at Halton in a lecture to the Lancaster Philosophical Society and later that year he read a paper on the same subject to an audience at the Royal Archaeological Institute at Edinburgh.\n\nAs vicar at Aspatria, Calverley began to study the ancient relics of that parish. He made intricate drawings of the 'Standing Cross', which at that time stood in its own rectangular socket in the south side of the churchyard, and compared its markings to other artefacts in the county. He also studied the Saxon hogbacks, the swastikas, the two spiral shafts, the spiral fragments and began to draw conclusions, which related to the age and importance of the site of the ancient church. Having realised the importance of these relics he removed them to the vestry. All of his conclusions remain his testimony today. However, it was his interpretation of the meaning of the spiral markings on the Gosforth Cross which assured his fame. Not content to make sketches of the carvings, Calverley determined to make an exact life-size reproduction a means of understanding the Masonic mystery of the sculpture. Aspatria parish is rich in red freestone and in due course he acquired from the local quarries, a solid piece of rock 2 feet wide, 2 feet thick and 16 feet long. With the aid of a retired master mason he carved out the cross and then proceeded with the carving. He reproduced the markings in intricate detail and the replica cross now stands in its own socket in the east end of Aspatria churchyard, a few feet away from Calverley's final resting place. As to the significance of the Gosforth Cross; Stephens, on visiting the site, pronounced it, \"one of the costliest olden Roods in Europe\" – unique in all his experience, and \"probably of seventh century date.\" In Calverley's opinion it was a Christian monument, not an heathen pillar surmounted by a cross. He described it as an \"elaborately carved Christian cross set in a socket of three Calvary steps.\".\n\nCalverley was elected F.S.A. (Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries) in 1885, and in that capacity served as the Cumberland secretary, reporting new finds. He was also a member of the Royal Archaeological Institute, and a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society. In addition to delivering a large number of technical papers to a variety of Societies and historical organisations he was heavily involved in the excavation of the Hardknott Roman Fort, South Cumberland. He also became one of the committee of experts who superintended the exploration of Hadrian's Wall in northern England. He died before the publication of his \"magnum opus\" entitled \"Notes on the Early Sculptured Crosses, Shrines and Monuments in the Present Diocese of Carlisle\", which was published in 1898 with W. G. Collingwood as editor.\n\nCalverley took a keen interest in the affairs of Aspatria. He occupied a seat on the Local Board, and afterwards the Aspatria Urban District Council. He also had a position on the Aspatria and Brayton School Board.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18501722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18501722", "title": "Y Gaer", "text": "Y Gaer\n\nY Gaer () is a Roman fort situated near modern-day Brecon in Mid Wales, United Kingdom.\nY Gaer is located at (Landranger 160).\n\nY Gaer was built around AD 75 and sits on a crossroads of Roman roads in the valley of the River Usk at a strategic point in Roman Wales, linking South Wales and Mid Wales. It was part of a chain of similar forts, such as Gobannium at Abergavenny, a day's march away down the Usk valley, and larger bases, such as Moridunum (Carmarthen) via Alabum (Llandovery), Cardiff Roman Fort to the south and Isca Augusta, Caerleon, the main base for the Roman legion locally.\n\nThe site was excavated in the 1920s by Sir Mortimer Wheeler, a prominent archaeologist of his day.\n\nThe fort was built for a contingent of up to 500 cavalrymen, recruited originally in Spain from the Vettones, and these Vettonian cavalry would have played a significant part in the conquest of the area held by the Silures.\n\nTheir early stables were wooden and their accommodation basic, protected by clay banks topped with a wooden palisade. This was rebuilt in the 2nd century AD by the Legio II Augusta and also shows signs of being repaired again in the 4th century.\n\nThe site is in the care of Cadw. It lies on private farmland and Cadw provides no signposting to the site, which lies on the further side of the farm buildings at the end of the approach lane.\n\nVisitors can see remnants of stone walls standing in parts to some in height, part of three gatehouses and corner guard towers. Several artifacts have been removed to local museums, such as a tombstone of a young cavalryman called Candidus, held at Brecknock Museum in Brecon.\n\n\n"}
