{"id": "53706661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53706661", "title": "Ahwahnee Principles", "text": "Ahwahnee Principles\n\nThe Ahwahnee Principles are a set of guidelines that emphasize sustainable urban planning practices. These principles have developed alongside the New Urbanism movement, which incorporates mixed-use, walk-able, compact, and transit-oriented elements in community planning. They were developed by the California-based Local Government Commission in 1991, a group of architects and other professionals urban design.. \"Ahwahnee\" is derived from a name for the Yosemite Valley in California. The Ahwahnee Principles have since expanded to other actions such as the Ahwahnee Principles for Economic Development (1997), the Ahwahnee Water Principle (2005), and the Ahwahnee Principles for Climate Change (2008) by the Local Government Commission.\n\nThe following principles, also noted as the Ahwahnee Principles for Resource-Efficient Communities were made by the Local Government Commission in 1991: \n"}
{"id": "7092995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7092995", "title": "Anton Günther", "text": "Anton Günther\n\nAnton Günther (17 November 1783, Lindenau, Bohemia (now part of Cvikov, Czech Republic) – 24 February 1863, Vienna) was an Austrian Roman Catholic philosopher whose work was condemned by the church as heretical tritheism. His work has been described as Liberal Catholicism and Vienna's first Catholic political movement.\n\nHe was born the son of devout Catholic parents at Lindenau (now part of Cvikov) in Bohemia. From 1796 to 1800 he attended the monastic school of the Piarists at Haide and from 1800 to 1803 the gymnasium of Leitmeritz. Subsequently he studied philosophy and jurisprudence at Prague. After completing these studies he became a tutor in the household of Prince Bretzenheim.\nThe religious views of the young man had been sadly shaken during the years of his student life by his study of the modern systems of philosophy (Kant, Johann Gottlieb Fichte, Jacob and Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph Schelling); but his removal in 1811 to Brünn (Brno) near Vienna with the princely family mentioned above brought him under the influence of the parish priest of this place, named Korn, and particularly of Saint Clement Mary Hofbauer, and restored him to firm Catholic convictions. He then took up the study of theology, first at Vienna and afterwards at Raab (Győr) in Hungary, where in 1820 he was ordained to the priesthood. In 1822 he entered the Jesuit novitiate at Starawicz in Galicia, but left it in 1824. For the rest of his life he resided at Vienna as a private ecclesiastic, and until 1848 occupied a position in that city as a member of the State Board of Book Censorship. He died in Vienna.\n\nFrom 1818 Günther was active in the world of letters as contributor to the \"Viennese Literary Chronicle\" (\"Wiener Jahrbücher der Literatur\").\nIn 1828 began to appear the series of works in which he expounded his peculiar system of philosophy and speculative theology: \n\nA new edition of these eight works, collected into nine volumes, appeared at Vienna in 1882 under the title of Günther's \"Gesammelte Schriften\". In addition to these, Günther produced in conjunction with J. E. Veith: \"Lydia, Philosophisches Jahrbuch\" (5 volumes, Vienna, 1849–54). His \"Lentigos und Peregrins Briefwechsel\" was printed in 1857, but was issued only for private circulation. Finally, long after Günther's death, Franz Peter Knoodt published from his posthumous papers \"Anti-Savarese\" (Vienna, 1883).\n\nAbounding in polemic against widely divergent schools of philosophy, of a style aphoristic, often quaintly humorous, and sparkling with flashes of genius, but frequently such in form and tenor as to prove little palatable to the reader, Günther's writings contain only sporadic fragments of his thought. \n\nIn all his scientific work, Günther aimed at the intellectual confutation of the Pantheism of modern philosophy, especially in its most seductive form, the Hegelian, by originating such a system of Christian philosophy as would better serve this purpose than the Scholastic system which he rejected, and would demonstrate clearly, even from the standpoint of natural reason, the truth of positive Christianity. As against this Pantheism, he seeks a speculative basis for Christian \"Creationism\" in the twofold dualism of God and the world, and within the world of spirit and nature; he furthermore strives to demonstrate scientifically that the fundamental teachings of the Christian Faith, and even the mysteries of the Trinity and the Incarnation, at least in their \"raison d'être\" if not in their form, are necessary truths in the mere light of reason. He would thus change faith into knowledge. A systematic and complete development of his ideas is not given in any of his works, not even in his \"Introduction to Speculative Theology\", in which one would most naturally look for it. \n\nThe starting-point of Günther's speculation is his theory of knowledge. Man is endowed with a twofold faculty of thought, the one a logical or conceptual function, which deals with appearances, and the other ontological, ideal, self-conscious, which penetrates through appearances to being; hence it is inferred that there are in man two essentially different thinking subjects. This \"dualism of thought\" establishes the dualism of spirit (\"Geist\") and nature in man, who thus exhibits their synthesis. The subject of the conceptual function is the \"Seele\" 'soul', which belongs to the nature-principle (\"Naturprincip\"). From the \"mind\" must be distinguished the \"Geist\" 'spirit', which differs from the former essentially as the subject of ideal thought.\nThe first result of this ideal thought-process is self-consciousness, the knowledge which man acquires of himself as a real being. The immediate object of inner perception is the conditions or states of the Ego, which make their appearance as the expressions of the two primary functions, \"receptivity\" and \"spontaneity\", when these are called into activity by influences from without. Inasmuch as the soul refers the manifestations of these two forces to the one principle and contradistinguishes itself as a real being from whatever appears before it, it arrives at the idea of the Ego. By this speculative process, which Günther calls a \"metalogical\" or ideal (\"ideell\") inference, as distinct from a logical or conceptual conclusion, the idea of its own being becomes for the soul the most certain of all truths (the Cartesian \"cogito ergo sum\"). Then from the certainty of its own existence the thinking soul arrives at the knowledge of an existence outside itself, since it is confronted by phenomena which it cannot refer to itself as cause, and for which, in line with the ontological inference, it must assign a cause in some real being external to itself. \n\nThus regarding man as a compound of two qualitatively different principles, spirit and nature, he arrives at the knowledge of the real existence of nature. The fact of self-consciousness leads him also to the knowledge of God; and Günther believes that the following proof of the existence of God is the only one that is possible and conclusive: when the soul, once self-conscious, has become certain of the reality of its own existence, it immediately recognizes that existence as afflicted with the negative characteristics of dependency and limitedness; it is therefore compelled to postulate another being as its own condition precedent or its own creator, which being it must recognize, in contradistinction to itself and its own inherent negative characteristics, as absolute and infinite. Wherefore this being cannot be the Absolute Being of Pantheism, which only arrives at a realization of itself with the development of the universe; it must be One Who dominates that universe and, differing substantially from it, is the personal Creator thereof. This is the point at which Günther's speculative theology takes up the thread. Proceeding along purely philosophical lines, and prescinding entirely from historical Divine Revelation, the absolute necessity of which Günther contests, it seeks to make evident the fundamental tenets of positive Christianity by the mere light of reason. Thus, to begin with, the threefold personality of God is, according to him, the consequence of that process which must be supposed to take place in God as well as in the created soul, whereby the differentiation or transition is made from indeterminateness to determinateness, with the difference that this process in God must be thought of as consummated from all eternity. God, according to this theory, first sets up for His own contemplation a complete substantial emanation (\"Wesensemanation\") of His own Being (Thesis and Antithesis: Father and Son); a further total substantial emanation, which issues from both simultaneously, constitutes the third personal Subject (the Holy Ghost), or the Synthesis, in which the opposition of thesis and antithesis disappears and their perfect parity is made manifest. \n\nOn his views concerning the Trinity, Günther builds up his theory of the Creation. Inseparably united with the self-consciousness of God in the three Divine Persons is His idea of the Non-Ego, that is, the idea of the Universe. This idea, in formal analogy to the threefold Divine Being and Life, has likewise a threefold scheme of Thesis, Antithesis and Synthesis. God's love for this world-idea is His motive for realizing it as His own counterpart (Contraposition), and as necessarily entailing all three of its factors, two of which (spirit and nature) are in antithesis to each other, while the third (man) exists as the synthesis of both. This world-reality, which God, by the mere act of His will, has through creation called from nothingness into being, does indeed exist as really as God Himself; its reality, however, is not drawn from the essence of God, but endures as a thing essentially different from Him, since it is indeed the realized idea of non-Divine Being and Life (Dualism of God and Universe). Thus the two antithetical factors of spirit and nature in the created world differ substantially from each other and stand in mutual opposition. The antithetical relation of spirit and nature shows itself in this, that the realm of the purely spiritual is formed of a plurality of substances, of unitary and integral real principles, each of which must ever retain its unity and its integrity; while nature, which was created a single substance, a single real principle, has in its process of differentiation lost its unity for ever, and has brought forth, and still brings forth, a multiplicity of forms or individuals. For this very reason nature, in her organic individual manifestations, each of which is only a fragment of the universal nature-substance, can only attain to thought without self-consciousness. Self-conscious thought, on the other hand, is peculiar to the spirit, since self-consciousness, the thought of the Ego, presupposes the substantial unity and integrity of a free personality. The synthesis of spirit and nature is man. From man's character as a generic being, the result of his participation in the life of nature, Günther deduces the rational basis of the dogmas of the Incarnation and Redemption. And, as this explains why the guilt of the first parent extends to the entire race, so also does it show how God could with perfect consistency bring about the redemption of the race which had fallen in Adam through the God-Man's union with that race as its second Head, Whose free compliance with the Divine will lay the basis of the fund of hereditary merit which serves to cancel the inherited guilt. \n\nGünther was a faithful Catholic and a devout priest. His philosophical labours were at any rate a sincere and honest endeavour to promote the triumph of positive Christianity over those systems of philosophy which were inimical to it. But it is questionable whether he pursued the right course in disregarding the fruitful labours of Scholastic theology and philosophy–of which, like all who scorn them, he had but scanty knowledge–and permitting his thought, particularly in his natural philosophy, and his speculative method to be unduly influenced by those very systems (of Hegel and Schelling) which he combated. The fact is that the desired result was in no wise attained. The schools of philosophy which he thought he could compel, by turning their own weapons against them, to recognize the truth of Christianity, took practically no notice of his ardent contentions, while the Church not only was unable to accept his system as the true Christian philosophy and to supplant with it the Scholastic system, but was finally obliged to reject it as unsound.\n\nAmong Catholic scholars Günther's speculative system occasioned a far-reaching movement. Though he never held a position as professor, he gathered about him through his writings a school of enthusiastic and in some instances distinguished followers, who on the other hand were opposed by eminent philosophers and theologians. At its zenith the school was powerful enough to secure the appointment of some of its members to academic professorships in Catholic philosophy. Günther himself was offered professorships at Munich, Bonn, Breslau and Tübingen; he refused these because he hoped for a like offer from Vienna, but his expectation was never realized. In 1833 he received from Munich an honorary degree of Doctor of Theology, and a similar degree in philosophy and theology was conferred on him by the University of Prague in 1848.\nHis earliest friends and collaborators were: the physician, Johann Heinrich Pabst (died 1838, author of \"Der Mensch und seine Geschichte\", Vienna, 1830; 2nd ed., 1847; \"Gibt es eine Philosophie des positiven Christenthums?\" Cologne, 1832; \"Adam und Christus. Zur Theorie der Ehe\", Vienna, 1835; in collaboration with Günther, the \"Janusköpfe\"); the celebrated homilist Johann Emmanual Veith, a convert (d. 1876, co-editor of the publication \"Lydia\") and Karl Franz von Hock (d. 1869; wrote \"Cartesius und seine Gegner, ein Beitrag zur Charakteristik der philosophischen Bestrebungen unserer Zeit\", Vienna, 1835, and other works; later took an active part in the discussion of political and economical questions).\nOther prominent adherents of Günther were: Johann Heinrich Löwe (professor of philosophy at Salzburg, 1839–51; at Prague, 1851); Johann Nepomuk Ehrlich (d. 1864; from 1836 taught philosophy in Krems; in 1850 became professor of moral theology at Graz, in 1852 at Prague, where in 1856 he became professor of fundamental theology); Jakob Zukrigl (d. 1876; professor of apologetics and philosophy at Tübingen, 1848); Xaver Schmid (d. 1883; in 1856 he became a Protestant); Jakob Merten (d. 1872); professor of philosophy in the seminary of Trier, 1845–68); Karl Werner (d. 1888; professor at St. Pölten, 1847; at Vienna, 1870); Theodor Gangauf, O.S.B. (d. 1875; professor of philosophy at the college of Augsburg, 1841–75, and simultaneously, 1851–59, Abbot of the Benedictine convent of St. Stephen's at the same place); Johann Spörlein (d. 1873; from 1849 professor at the college of Bamberg); Georg Karl Mayer (d. 1868; from 1842 professor at the college of Bamberg); Peter Knoodt (d. 1889; from 1845 professor of philosophy at Bonn); Peter Joseph Elvenich (d. 1886; from 1829 professor of philosophy at Breslau, at first a Hermesian and later a disciple of Günther); Johann Baptista Baltzer (d. 1871; from 1830 professor of dogmatic theology at Breslau, originally a Hermesian); Joseph Hubert Reinkens (d. 1896; from 1853 professor of church history at Breslau; from 1873 Old Catholic bishop at Bonn). Finally, in a younger generation, the most distinguished advocates of the system were pupils of Knoodt, Theodor Weber (d. 1906; professor of philosophy at Breslau, 1872–90; from 1890 vicar-general under Reinkens at Bonn, and from 1896 Old Catholic bishop in that city), whose \"Metaphysik\" (2 volumes, Gotha, 1888–91), containing an independent reconstruction of Günther's speculation, is on the whole the most important work of the Güntherian School; and Ernst Melzer (d. 1899 at Bonn). \n\nAmong the literary opponents of Günther's philosophy the following deserve mention: Johann Hast, Wenzeslaus Mattes, P. Volkmuth, P. Ildephons Sorg, O.S.B., Johann Nepomuk Oischinger, Franz Xaver Dieringer, Franz Jakob Clemens, Friedrich Michelis, Johann Adam Hitzfelder, Joseph Kleutgen and Johannes Katschthaler.\n\nThe Congregation of the Index in Rome began in 1852 an investigation of Günther's doctrines and writings, Günther being invited to appear personally or to send some of his disciples to represent him. This mission was entrusted to Baltzer and Gangauf who arrived at Rome in November, 1853. Gangauf was replaced by Knoodt, a professor of theology at Bonn, in the summer of 1854. The latter and Baltzer laboured together until the end of November in that year, when they submitted their written defence to the Congregation of the Index and returned to Germany. Yet their efforts and the favourable intervention of friends in high station failed to avert the final blow, though they served to defer it for a time.\nCardinal Schwarzenberg and Cardinal von Diepenbrock and Bishop Arnoldi of Trier were friendly to Günther and assisted him at Rome. Even the head of the Congregation of the Index, Cardinal d'Andrea, was well-disposed towards him. On the other hand, Cardinals Johannes von Geissel, Joseph Othmar Rauscher and Carl von Reisach urged his condemnation. By decree of 8 January 1857 the Congregation placed the works of Günther on the \"Index librorum prohibitorum\". The special grounds of this condemnation were set forth by Pius IX in the Brief addressed by him to Cardinal von Geissel, Archbishop of Cologne, on 15 June 1857, which declares that Günther's teachings on the Trinity, the Person of Christ, the nature of man, the Creation and particularly his views on the relation of faith to knowledge, as well as fundamental rationalism, which is the controlling factor of his philosophy even in the handling of Christian dogmas, are not consistent with the doctrine of the Church. \n\nBefore the publication of the Index decree, Günther had been summoned to submit thereto, and in fact had declared his acquiescence, but for him internal submission and rejection of his errors was out of the question. He felt keenly the blow, which he looked upon as an injustice and which embittered him; but subsequently he published nothing. Some of his followers, like Merten, now turned away from Güntherianism, but the greater number held to it obstinately, and for many years it found academic support at Bonn (through Knoodt) and at Breslau (through Elvenich and Weber). After the First Vatican Council most of the Güntherians named above who were still living at the time (with the exception of Veith) joined the Old Catholic movement, in which some of them assumed leading parts. Their hopes of thus imparting new vigour to Güntherianism were not realized, whereas, by their separation from the Church, they brought about the final elimination of Güntherian influence from Catholic thought.\n"}
{"id": "5606012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5606012", "title": "Arya: A Philosophical Review", "text": "Arya: A Philosophical Review\n\nArya: A Philosophical Review was a 64-page monthly periodical written by Sri Aurobindo and published in India between 1914 and 1921. The majority of the material which initially appeared in the \"Arya\" was later edited and published in book-form as \"The Life Divine\", \"The Synthesis of Yoga\", \"The Secret of the Veda\", \"The Foundations of Indian Culture\" and \"The Ideal of Human Unity\" as well as a number of translations of Vedic literature.\n\nThe \"Arya\" was conceived as a joint venture of Sri Aurobindo and Paul Richard, a French national residing at Pondicherry, in the spring of 1914. Sri Aurobindo remarked on more than one occasion that, though he was not adverse to the idea, it was Richard who initially proposed the project of publishing a journal. In a letter to Dilip Kumar Roy dated September 4, 1934, he wrote:\n\nIt was clear to Sri Aurobindo that the proposed journal would represent a medium through which he could give voice to his still-emerging philosophy – both in India and abroad. In a letter to Motilal Roy from June 1914, he wrote:\n\nAlthough it is unknown who was responsible for the choice of \"Arya\" as the title of the journal, Sri Aurobindo explained what he understood the term to represent. In the second issue (September, 1914), he composed an article entitled \"Arya: Its Significance\" in which he set forth the meaning of the term as he intended it. He wrote:\n\nThe \"Arya\" was advertised as \"a review of pure philosophy\" with a twofold object:\n\n\nThe method of the review was described as one of \"realism, at once rational and transcendental; a realism consisting in the unification of intellectual and scientific discipline with those of intuitive experimentation.\"\n\nThe material appearing in the \"Arya\" was organized under four main headings:\n\n\nAlthough Sri Aurobindo and Richard had planned to share the work of writing and editing the material which was to appear in the journal, Richard was ordered by the French Government to leave Pondicherry and return to France in the middle of 1915. As a result, the French edition of the journal (\"Revue de Grande Synthèse\") was discontinued after only seven issues. Subscriptions for \"Arya\" had been sold prior to publication, and Sri Aurobindo was left with the task of completing the outstanding issues. As he remarked in 1934:\n\nExcepting the three contributions made by Richard to the journal (\"The Wherefore of the Worlds\", \"The Eternal Wisdom\" and the short \"Sons of Heaven\"; see below), the bulk of the remainder was composed by Sri Aurobindo himself.\n\nIn 1921, after six and a half years of uninterrupted publication, Sri Aurobindo discontinued the \"Arya\". In a private discussion in 1926, he gave his reasons for this decision:\n\nAlthough Sri Aurobindo had discontinued its publication, there was an increasing demand for back issues of the \"Arya\" after 1921. This led him to have the \"Arya\" reprinted in seven volumes, preserving the order in which the articles had originally appeared. The contents of these seven volumes are as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16838344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16838344", "title": "Association for Applied Psychophysiology and Biofeedback", "text": "Association for Applied Psychophysiology and Biofeedback\n\nThe Association for Applied Psychophysiology and Biofeedback (AAPB) was founded in 1969 as the Biofeedback Research Society (BRS). The association aims to promote understanding of biofeedback and advance the methods used in this practice. AAPB is a non-profit organization as defined in Section 501(c)(6) of the Internal Revenue Service Code.\n\nAAPB aims to advance the development, dissemination and utilization of knowledge about applied psychophysiology and biofeedback to improve health and the quality of life through research, education and practice.\n\nAAPB's aims include:\n\nThe American Psychological Association has named biofeedback as a clinical proficiency.\n\nThe Association for Applied Psychophysiology and Biofeedback (AAPB), the Biofeedback Certification Institution of America (BCIA), and the International Society for Neurofeedback and Research (ISNR) approved the following definition of biofeedback on May 18, 2008:\n\"Applied Psychophysiology and Biofeedback\" is a journal devoted to study of the interrelationship of physiological systems, cognition, social and environmental parameters, and health. Priority is given to original research which contributes to the theory, practice, and evaluation of applied psychophysiology and biofeedback. Other sections are for conceptual and theoretical articles; evaluative reviews; the Clinical Forum, which includes case studies, clinical replication series, treatment protocols, and clinical notes and observations; the Discussion Forum; innovations in instrumentation; letters to the editor, comments on issues raised in articles; and book reviews. \"Applied Psychophysiology and Biofeedback\" is a publication of the Association for Applied Psychophysiology and Biofeedback. Frank Andrasik serves as the journal's editor.\n\n\"\" is a peer-reviewed, quarterly online journal for biofeedback practitioners, educators, health and mental health professionals, and researchers in psychophysiology. \"Biofeedback\" includes reports on advances in biofeedback, neurofeedback, self-regulation strategies, sports physiology, personal and occupational wellness, peak performance in the arts, and scientific psychophysiology.\n\n\"Biofeedback\" also publishes articles on practice standards and ethical principles in research and practice, feature articles on uses of biofeedback, and case studies illustrating use of mind-body therapies and principles. Priority is given to programs of research, innovative clinical programs, and technical advances. The journal also publishes historical and biographical articles on biofeedback and psychophysiology; reviews of the development of biofeedback in international settings; innovations in instrumentation and software; and book reviews. \"Biofeedback: A Clinical Journal\" is an official publication of the Association for Applied Psychophysiology and Biofeedback. Don Moss serves as the journal's editor.\n\nAAPB Teleseminars present findings in topics of interest to biofeedback and neurofeedback professionals like \"Battle Trauma\" and \"Neurons and Neurotransmitters\". Teleseminars are approved by the APA and Nursing Association, and most last 90 minutes, providing 1.5 hours of CE Credit. Telesminars allow professionals to earn all of the CE credits needed for professional licensure and BCIA renewal.\n\nMembership in AAPB is open to professionals interested in the investigation and application of applied psychophysiology and biofeedback, and in the scientific and professional advancement of the field. The AAPB has grown to more than 2,000 members representing the fields of psychology, medicine, nursing, social work, counseling, physical therapy, education, and other health care areas. Corporations can support AAPB through their Corporate Membership. There are many state chapters, and the association has members in several countries.\n\nThe Applied Professionals Section was formed to create an alliance of biofeedback professionals in order to support recognition of unlicensed biofeedback practitioners. Members include biofeedback professionals who are researchers, rehabilitation specialists, educators, stress management counselors, health care specialists, and other biofeedback consultants who are not recognized under a specific license. The Allied Professionals Section accepts unlicensed biofeedback practitioners, regardless of their specialty (EMG, EEG or general).\n\nThe Applied Respiratory Psychophysiology Section promotes scientific and clinical activities in the area of respiratory retraining for treating psychological and physical symptoms, and the management of respiratory diseases. The section fosters research on the causes and effects of hyperventilation and effects of respiratory rhythms on other physiological systems including the body’s homeostatic reflexes.\n\nThe Education Section is the oldest within AAPB. The section focuses on assisting biofeedback professionals as educators and supporting applications of biofeedback in an educational setting.\n\nThe section embarked on a project in 2008 to redefine its mission and function within AAPB. Included in the section’s proposed initiatives is the development of a web-based “link” that will enable the exchange of information between AAPB’s stakeholders. The first phase of implementation for the link project is planned as a component of AAPB’s larger website renovation, and will involve coordinating information about planned educational programs amongst AAPB and its state, regional, and international chapters.\nThe International Section fosters the promotion of scientific research and clinical practice; promotion of high standards of professional practice, peer review, ethics, and education in biofeedback; and dissemination of information about biofeedback to members and the public. Members can be involved in the governance of the section, develop a network of international contacts dealing with similar issues, clarify how AAPB and the section can better meet their needs, and can contribute to the expansion of biofeedback worldwide.\n\nThe purpose of the ISMA-USA Stress Management Section is to promote scientific and clinical activities in the application areas of stress management for treating psychological and physical symptoms and management of stress-related disorders.\n\nMind-body medicine is an area of research funding by the NIH’s National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine (NCCAM) and the Office of Behavioral and Social Sciences Research (OBSSR). The website is at [https://www.aapb.org The goal is to increase participation in AAPB by creative thinkers, teachers, researchers and explorers in meditation, distant healing, prayer, hypnosis and imagery, yoga, intuition and dreams, psychoacoustics, qigong, and related areas.\n\nNeurofeedback Division membership is open to members of AAPB who are interested in research and practice in neurofeedback (EEG biofeedback). The division sponsors activities at the AAPB Annual Meeting, including key speakers and workshops. The Neurofeedback Division Newsletter includes articles on clinical and technical interviews, topics including insurance, ethics, medicolegal issues, and products, systems, and approaches. Articles for the Biofeedback Newsmagazine are also submitted by division members.\n\nBenefits of membership include newsletters and list servs, programs and a dinner at the annual meeting, web-listing opportunities, and access to the AAPB website’s member’s only area. Sustaining Members receive recognition in the Neurofeedback Newsletter, certificate showing support of Division, and free web link in Member’s Only Section of website.\n\nThe Optimal Functioning Section was organized to discuss and explore uses of biofeedback and applied psychophysiology for optimizing health, mental, physical, emotional and spiritual functioning, and peak performance fields. The section holds a meeting in conjunction with the annual conference, and sponsors invite symposia and presentations from recognized experts.\n\nThe Performing Arts Psychophysiology Section is open to anyone interested in psychophysiology for artists. Members possess a background in art. The section was founded on the premise that the physiological effects of stress threaten artists' health and professional careers. It encourages development of clinical applications, validation of therapies which artists utilize, and testing of arts populations with psychophysiological models.\n\nThe Surface EMG Division within AAPB began as the Surface EMG Society of North America (SESNA). The aim is to promote the use of surface electromyography techniques within the context of applied psychophysiology. They provide a track at the AAPB Annual Meeting, workshops, and internet dialogue on members’ interests.\n\n\n\n\nThe Biofeedback Research Society (BRS) was founded in 1969. The BRS was renamed the Biofeedback Society of America (BSA) in 1976 and the Association for Applied Psychophysiology and Biofeedback (AAPB) in 1989.\n\n1969 to 2009 - Francine Butler, PhD, CAE, CMP\n2007 to 2010 - David L. Stumph, IOM, CAE\n\n<poem>\n2008 - Aubrey Ewing\n2007 - Alan Glaros\n2006 - Richard Gevirtz\n2005 - Richard Sherman\n2004 - Steve Baskin\n2003 - Lynda Kirk\n2002 - Paul Lehrer\n2001 - Donald Moss\n2000 - Doil Montgomery\n1999 - Dale Walters\n1998 - Ian Wickramasekera\n1997 - Sebastian Striefel\n1996 - Joel F. Lubar\n1995 - Angele McGrady\n1994 - Michael McKee\n1993 - Frank Andrasik\n1992 - Paula B. Amar\n1991 - Steven L. Wolf\n1990 - J. Peter Rosenfeld\n1989 - Susan Middaugh\n1988 - M. Barry Sterman\n1987 - Mark Schwartz\n1986 - Carol Schneider\n1985 - Patricia Norris\n1984 - Neal Miller\n1983 - John D. Rugh\n1982 - Steven L. Fahrion\n1981 - Bernard T. Engel\n1980 - Edward Taub\n1979 - John Basmajian\n1978 - Elmer Green\n1977 - Charles Stroebel\n1976 - Erik Peper\n1975 - Joe Kamiya\n1974 - Thomas H. Budzynski\n1973 - Gary Schwartz\n1971 to 1972 - Johann Stoyva\n1970 to 1971 - Thomas Mulholland\n1969 to 1970 - Barbara Brown,\n</poem>\nThe AAPB Foundation was formed in 1985 at the urging of then AAPB president, Neal Miller. Miller believed that the organization should encourage the interest and application of work by students to demonstrate the efficacy of biofeedback techniques. Presently, the foundation annually supports travel scholarships to students whose papers have been accepted for presentation at the annual meeting.\n\nThe Foundation for Education and Research in Biofeedback and Related Sciences initiated a program aimed at stimulating biofeedback research at its 2009 Board meeting. The board established funding for three grants at $1,000 each. Eligibility is limited to graduate students doing research in biofeedback and related fields. The award is accompanied by a travel scholarship and a waiver of registration to attend the AAPB annual meeting where the results of the research are presented.\n\n"}
{"id": "56290037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56290037", "title": "At the Existentialist Cafe", "text": "At the Existentialist Cafe\n\nAt the Existentialist Cafe: Freedom, Being, and Apricot Cocktails is a 2016 book written by Sarah Bakewell that covers the philosophy and history of the 20th century movement existentialism.\n\nBakewell structures \"At the Existentialist Cafe\" by focusing each chapter on a particular philosopher or time period within the existentialist movement first starting by introducing the early existentialists Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, Dostoevsky, and Kafka and then moving onto the lives and philosophies of Heidegger, Husserl, Sartre, Beauvoir, Camus, Karl Jaspers, and Merleau-Ponty. \n"}
{"id": "49528276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49528276", "title": "Behavioral plasticity", "text": "Behavioral plasticity\n\nBehavioral plasticity refers to a change in an organism's behavior that results from exposure to stimuli, such as changing environmental conditions. Behavior can change more rapidly in response to changes in internal or external stimuli than is the case for most morphological traits and many physiological traits. As a result, when organisms are confronted by new conditions, behavioral changes often occur in advance of physiological or morphological changes. For instance, larval amphibians changed their antipredator behavior within an hour after a change in cues from predators, but morphological changes in body and tail shape in response to the same cues required a week to complete.\n\nFor many years, ethologists have studied the ways that behavior can change in response to changes in external stimuli or changes in the internal state of an organism. In a parallel literature, psychologists studying learning and cognition have spent years documenting the many ways that experiences in the past can affect the behavior an individual expresses at the current time. Interest in behavioral plasticity gained prominence more recently as an example of a type of phenotypic plasticity with major consequences for evolutionary biology.\n\nBehavioral plasticity can be broadly organized into two types: exogenous and endogenous. Exogenous plasticity refers to the changes in behavioral phenotype (i.e., observable behaviors) caused by an external stimuli, experience, or environment. Endogenous plasticity encompasses plastic responses that result from changes in internal cues, such as genotype, circadian rhythms, and menstruation.\n\nThese two broad categories can be further broken down into two other important classifications. When an external stimuli elicits or \"activates\" an immediate response (an immediate effect on behavior), then the organism is demonstrating contextual plasticity. This form of plasticity highlights the concept that external stimuli in a given context activate neural and hormonal mechanisms or pathways which already exist inside the organism. In contrast, if an organism's current behavior is altered by past experiences, then the animal is said to be exhibiting developmental or \"innate\" behavioral plasticity. This form of plasticity is generally thought to require new neuronal pathways to form.\n\nDevelopmental behavioral plasticity corresponds to the commonly used definition of plasticity: a single genotype can express more than one behavioral phenotype as a result of different developmental routes triggered by differences in past experiences. Developmental plasticity thus includes what is referred to as \"learning\". However, developmental plasticity also includes developmental changes in morphology and physiology relevant to a particular behavior, such as changes in muscles, limbs, or bones that influence foraging or locomotion throughout and organism's life.\n\nA major difference between developmental and contextual plasticity is the inherent trade-off between the time of interpreting a stimuli and exhibiting a behavior. Contextual plasticity is a near immediate response to the environment. The underlying hormonal networks/neuronal pathways are already present, so it is only a matter of activating them. In contrast, developmental plasticity requires internal changes in hormonal networks and neuronal pathways. As a result, developmental plasticity is often, although not always, a slower process than contextual plasticity. For instance, habituation is a type of learning (developmental plasticity) that can occur within a short period of time. One of the advantages of developmental behavioral plasticity that occurs over extended periods of time is that such changes can occur in concert with changes in morphological and physiological traits. In such cases, the same set of external or internal stimuli can lead to coordinated changes in suites of behavioral, morphological and physiological traits.\n\nContextual plasticity is typically studied by presenting the same individual with different external stimuli, and then recording their responses to each stimulus. For instance, ants can rapidly alter their running speed in response to changes in the external temperature. Another example of contextual plasticity occurs when birds change their vocalizations in response to changes in the pitch or intensity of background noise. Contextual plasticity plays a major role in studies of mate preference, in which each subject is exposed to cues from different mates, and its response to each cue is quantified. In this case, a stronger attractive response to a particular cue is assumed to reflect a preference for mates with that cue.\n\nDevelopmental plasticity encompasses the many ways that experiences in an organism's past can affect its current behavior. Developmental plasticity thus includes learning, acclimation, and any situation in which environmental conditions early in life affects the behavior expressed later in life (also called ontogenetic plasticity. Since a given individual can only be raised under one set of conditions, ontogenetic plasticity is studied by dividing matched individuals into two or more groups, and then rearing each group under a different set of conditions. For instance, this experimental design was used to demonstrate that the density at which moth larvae were raised affected the courtship signals that they produced as adults. \nEndogenous plasticity includes circadian rhythms, circannual rhythms, and age-dependent changes in behavior. A good example of endogenous plasticity occurs with zebrafish (\"Danio rerio\"). Larval zebrafish exhibit circadian rhythms in their responsiveness to light. Even when they are maintained under continuous darkness, the fish are much more responsive to changes in light (i.e. higher contextual plasticity) during subjective day than during subjective night. Another example involves the changes in an individual's behavior and hormonal profile around the time of sexual maturity; such changes are affected changes in physiology that occurred months to years earlier in life.\n\nA useful distinction to make when looking at behavioral plasticity is between potential and realized plasticity. Potential plasticity refers to the ability of a given phenotypic trait to vary in its response to variation in stimuli, experiences, or environmental conditions. Thus, potential plasticity is the theoretical range in behavioral plasticity that could be expressed. This value is never truly known, but serves more as a baseline in plasticity models. Realized plasticity, on the other hand, refers to the extent to which a given phenotype actually varies in response to changes in a specific stimulus, experience, or environmental condition.\n\nRecent studies of animals have documented individual differences in virtually all of the different types of behavioral plasticities described above. In addition, behavioral plasticities may themselves be developmentally plastic: individual differences in a type of plasticity that is expressed at a given age may be affected by the conditions to which the subjects were exposed earlier in life. In a variety of species, for instance, social cues during the juvenile period affect the contextual plasticity of responses to cues from potential mates at adulthood. As is the case for many other types of plasticity, researchers studying the development of individual differences in behavioral plasticity have found that genes, prior experiences and interactions between these factors contribute to the individual differences in behavioral plasticity that are expressed at a given age or lifestage. Another question that is currently attracting interest from students of both animal and human behavior is whether different types of behavioral plasticities are correlated with one another across individuals: i.e., whether some individuals are generally more plastic than others. Although there is some evidence that certain types of cognitive traits tend to be positively correlated with one another across individuals (see the g factor in humans), at present there is scant evidence that other types of plasticity (e.g. contextual plasticity and ontogenetic plasticity) are correlated with one another across individuals or genotypes in humans or animals. \nBehavioral plasticity can have major impacts on the evolutionary fitness of an individual. Both developmental and contextual plasticity influence the fitness of an animal in a novel environment by increasing the probability that the animal will survive in that environment. Developmental plasticity is particularly important in terms of survival in novel environments, because trial-and-error processes such as learning (which encompass both phenotype sampling and environmental feedback) have the ability to immediately shift an entire population close to a new adaptive norm. As such, the ability to express some level of behavioral plasticity can be very advantageous. In fluctuating environments, animals that can change how they respond to differences in stimuli would have a leg up over animals that were set in a rigid phenotype. However, this would only be the case if the costs of maintaining the ability to change phenotype was lower than the benefit conferred to the individual.\n"}
{"id": "1700083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1700083", "title": "Cartesian anxiety", "text": "Cartesian anxiety\n\nCartesian anxiety refers to the notion that, since René Descartes posited his influential form of body-mind dualism, Western civilization has suffered from a longing for ontological certainty, or feeling that scientific methods, and especially the study of the world as a thing separate from ourselves, should be able to lead us to a firm and unchanging knowledge of ourselves and the world around us. The term is named after Descartes because of his well-known emphasis on \"mind\" as different from \"body\", \"self\" as different from \"other\". \n\nRichard J. Bernstein coined the term in his 1983 book \"Beyond Objectivism and Relativism: Science, Hermeneutics, and Praxis\".\n"}
{"id": "35759407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35759407", "title": "Collaborative language systems", "text": "Collaborative language systems\n\nCollaborative language systems is a therapeutic approach largely based in contemporary hermeneutics, the study of interpretation as a way to produce understanding, while considering both context and cognition, as well as social constructionism. This approach involves a reciprocal relationship between both the therapist and client, through which the client works through his or her clinical problems using dialogical conversation with the therapist. The therapist and client work together, utilizing their own, individual knowledge and understanding of the issues, to conceptualize and illuminate the client’s problems and provide new context, meaning and comprehension to those problems based on the collaboration.\n\nThe theoretical approach known as collaborative language systems evolved from the traditional basis of collaborative therapy. Together, Harlene Anderson and Harry Goolishian took the core values incorporated into practiced therapeutic techniques involving reciprocal approaches toward the client-patient relationship and applied a cooperative understanding of the use of modern language and the role it plays in the formulation of ideas and perception, as well as Rogerian theory towards the therapeutic relationship. Goolishian and Anderson were later joined by Lynn Hoffman in expanding the application of their ideas. The approach corrected by the collective contributors was eventually expounded upon by Tom Andersen, who thrust the theories into a broader range of practice within the field family systems therapy.\n\nCollaborative therapy emerged as a postmodernist concept rooted in philosophical principles as a way to challenge existing psychotherapeutic approaches. The basic foundations upon which collaborative language systems are based involve the formation of our understanding of events and situations based on the words used to describe them. Through narration and dialogue, it is theorized, we give meaning to situations. This meaning changes given the context of the conversation and how we choose to describe it. Collaborative therapists believe that knowledge and language, and thus the meaning each is given, are interdependent, dynamic processes that change through the exchange of information and ideas.\n\nUnlike traditional psychotherapy, the collaborative therapist plays a more active role in the therapist/patient relationship. As narration is essential to this form of therapy, the therapist constantly invites and facilitates the dialogue in order to sustain a constant exchange of ideas and experience. The therapist’s goal is to gain an understanding of the client’s problems through their narration by attempting to comprehend meaning from the perspective of the client. This process serves as a co-learning experience during which the therapist pays close attention to both what and how things are being said. Any comments or suggestions made by the therapist are used simply as a basis for continued conversation rather than an attempt at guidance or persuasion. The role of a collaborative therapist is to provide a context in which the client can begin to author, edit, and re-edit their own lives through the development and exchange of language. Despite the implicit implications regarding influence during this mutual exchange, the process most closely resembles the ethical practice of re-framing rather than coaching. The collaborative therapist believes that the open exchange of ideas and continuous dialogue will create opportunities for growth and transformation within the client.\n\nCollaborative language systems holds to certain core concepts during the conversational practice of therapy. Those concepts are:\n\n\nThese philosophies attempt to ensure, while working in tandem, the relationship between client and therapist grows in a mutually inclusive way, expounding upon the knowledge and understanding of situations by placing both the parties on the same level, providing the client the ability to share and explore their understanding openly and freely while setting and meeting their goals for therapy based on the end points they set for themselves. In this way, collaborative therapy builds upon the humanistic ideals with the client as the expert. It then builds upon the social constructionist view of identity through open dialogue. This theory involves the creation and understanding of problem an situations based upon the context and exchange in which they are formed. As the client and the therapist build their relationship through dialogical conversation, the context and meaning the client gives to the problems they are facing is altered as new perspectives and alternative viewpoints are offered by the therapist for consideration.\n\n"}
{"id": "311982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=311982", "title": "Divine illumination", "text": "Divine illumination\n\nAccording to divine illumination, the process of human thought needs to be aided by divine grace. It is the oldest and most influential alternative to naturalism in the theory of mind and epistemology. It was an important feature of ancient Greek philosophy, Neoplatonism, medieval philosophy, and the Illuminationist school of Islamic philosophy.\n\nSocrates says in The Apology that he had a divine or spiritual sign that began when he was a child. It was a voice that turned him away from something he was about to do, although it never encouraged him to do anything. Apuleius later suggested the voice was of a friendly demon and that Socrates deserved this help as he was the most perfect of human beings.\n\nThe early Christian philosopher Augustine (354 – 430) also emphasised the role of divine illumination in our thought, saying that \"The mind needs to be enlightened by light from outside itself, so that it can participate in truth, because it is not itself the nature of truth. You will light my lamp, Lord,\" and \"You hear nothing true from me which you have not first told me.\" According to Augustine, God does not give us certain information, but rather gives us insight into the truth of the information we received for ourselves.\n\nAugustine's theory was defended by Christian philosophers of the later Middle Ages, particularly Franciscans such as Bonaventura and Matthew of Aquasparta. According to Bonaventura:\n\nThe doctrine was criticised by John Pecham and Roger Marston, and in particular by Thomas Aquinas, who denied that in this life we have divine ideas as an object of thought, and that divine illumination is sufficient on its own, without the senses. Aquinas also denied that there is a special continuing divine influence on human thought. People have sufficient capacity for thought on their own, without needing \"new illumination added onto their natural illumination\".\n\nThe theory was defended by Henry of Ghent. Henry argued against Aquinas that Aristotle's theory of abstraction is not enough to explain how we can acquire infallible knowledge of the truth, and must be supplemented by divine illumination. A thing has two exemplars against which it can be compared. The first is a created exemplar which exists in the soul. The second is an exemplar which exists outside the soul, and which is uncreated and eternal. But no comparison to a created exemplar can give us infallible truth. Since the dignity of man requires that we can acquire such truth, it follows that we have access to the exemplar in the divine mind.\n\nHenry's defence of divine illumination was strongly criticised by the Franciscan theologian Duns Scotus, who argued that Henry's version of the theory led to scepticism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3323231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3323231", "title": "Enterprise liability", "text": "Enterprise liability\n\nEnterprise liability is a legal doctrine under which individual entities (for example, otherwise legally unrelated corporations or people) can be held jointly liable for some action on the basis of being part of a shared enterprise. Enterprise liability is a form of secondary liability.\n\nSuppose high-risk manufacturing activities are shunted into one corporation, while a second \"marketing\" corporation keeps all the profits. In the case that someone was injured by the manufacturing activity, a court might apply the enterprise liability doctrine to allow recovery from the marketing corporation, which holds all the assets.\n\nThe doctrine emerged from litigation in the wake of the 1977 Beverly Hills Supper Club fire. The doctrine is examined in \"Walkovsky v. Carlton\", 223 N.E.2d 6 (N.Y. 1966).\n\nEnterprise Liability has been used as alternative terminology for Industry-Wide Liability.\n\n\"Sindell v. Abbott Laboratories\", 607 P.2d 924 (Cal. 1980) cites \"Hall v. E.I Du Pont De Nemours & Co., Inc.\", 345 F.Supp. 353 (E.D.N.Y. 1972) to explain Industry-Wide Liability, which was equated to Enterprise Liability:\n\nThe concept of Enterprise Liability is distinguished from Market share liability, a legal doctrine introduced in \"Sindell v. Abbott Laboratories\".\n\nThe idea of enterprise liability was supported by the Court of Appeal in \"DHN Food Distributors Ltd v Tower Hamlets London Borough Council\", a case on piercing the corporate veil.\n\nMore generally in the law of tort, the principle has been argued to have been recognised, albeit indirectly, by cases such as \"Lister v Hesley Hall Ltd\". A general principle of joint liability in tort between different contractors that work in a supply chain was also recognised in \"Viasystems Ltd v Thermal Transfer Ltd\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22105307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22105307", "title": "George Holmes Howison", "text": "George Holmes Howison\n\nGeorge Holmes Howison (29 November 1834 – 31 December 1916) was an American philosopher who established the philosophy department at the University of California, Berkeley and held the position there of Mills Professor of Intellectual and Moral Philosophy and Civil Polity. He also founded the Philosophical Union, one of the oldest philosophical organizations in the United States.\n\nHowison's philosophy is set forth almost entirely in his volume entitled \"The Limits of Evolution, and other essays, illustrating the metaphysical theory of personal idealism\" (1901, 2nd ed.: 1905). Scrutinizing the idea of evolution that had come to the fore, he proved not only that no Person can be wholly \"the product of 'continuous creation'\", evolution, but went on also to show that, rooted in the very same (\"a priori\") reason, fulfilled philosophy necessarily ends in the \"Vision Beatific\", \"that universal circle of spirits which, since the time of the stoics, has so pertinently been called the City of God\".\n\nFriends and former students of Howison established the Howison Lectures in Philosophy in 1919. Over the years, the lecture series has included talks by distinguished philosophers such as Michel Foucault and Noam Chomsky.\n\nGeorge Holmes Howison was born on November 29, 1834, in Montgomery County, Maryland, and died in Berkeley, California on December 31, 1916. His parents were Robert Howison of Virginia and Eliza Holmes Howison of Maryland. These were old and distinguished Southern families, Presbyterians and slaveholders. Howison's biography is eclectic and the basis of Howison's later devotion to pluralism. Howison was the primary originator of philosophical pluralism in America, which was his most enduring contribution to philosophy. Although he was widely recognized during his lifetime, Howison's ideas have spread and come into the present mainly through influence on other notable philosophers whose names have continued to attract attention, especially Josiah Royce, William James, and Borden Parker Bowne. Howison was, by the accounts of those who knew him, a very persuasive philosopher.\n\nWhen Howison was four years of age his parents freed their slaves and moved to Marietta, Ohio, for the improved educational and cultural life it offered at that time. The various Christian sects there had worked out a consensus and ecumenism, creating a co-operative community in which even Protestants and Catholics worked together. This religious pluralism was exceedingly rare in 19th century North America. Howison attended Marietta Academy and later Harmar Academy where he received a classical education, including ancient languages. He entered Marietta College at 14 and studied German. He studied philosophy in his senior year. After graduating, Howison pursued Christian ministry, graduating from Lane Seminary in Cincinnati and being licensed to preach. Howison did not take a church, however, and served as a schoolteacher and principal several Ohio towns. In 1862 he moved to Salem, Massachusetts as a school principal. There he met and married Lois Caswell, an English teacher, who was related to several prominent academic families associated with Yale University and Brown University. Howison continued to educate himself, especially in mathematics.\n\nHaving moved to better and better schools and having made a name for himself as an educator, in 1864 (when he was 30) Howison was offered a post as professor at Washington University in St. Louis. During the following years Howison taught in all the branches of mathematics, including applied fields such as mechanics and astronomy, but also in political economy and Latin. Howison wrote a treatise on analytic geometry (1869) and an algebra primer (1870). In St. Louis Howison also came into contact with a subdivision of the St. Louis Philosophical Society called The Kant Club, which met at the home of William Torrey Harris. With this group he read G. W. F. Hegel's The Phenomenology of Spirit. His association with Harris and the St. Louis Hegelians turned Howison's main interest to philosophy. Harris' The Journal of Speculative Philosophy was started during this time and Howison published an important paper on the relations among the branches of mathematics in one of its early numbers. The Kant Club hosted speeches by both Ralph Waldo Emerson and Bronson Alcott. Washington University offered no opportunity for Howison to pursue philosophy, so he returned to New England to become headmaster at English High School in Boston. In 1872 Howison moved to the new Massachusetts Institute of Technology as its Professor of Logic and Philosophy of Science, remaining until 1878, when financial problems forced M.I.T. to eliminate his position. It was during these years that Howison began writing philosophy. He held various teaching positions and lectured for money between 1878 and 1882, including courses at Harvard Divinity School and the Concord School of Philosophy, where he became better acquainted with Emerson and Alcott.\n\nAlso during these years he attended every two weeks the informal philosophical meetings in the Temple Street rooms of Thomas Davidson with a small group that included William James and Bowne. American philosophical pluralism and American personalism began here. These views were differently articulated and defended by James, Bowne, Davidson, and Howison, but their commonalities are many.\n\nBeginning in 1880 Howison traveled and studied in Europe. In 1881 he enrolled at the University of Berlin, studying Kant with Jules Michelet which moderated Howison's enthusiasm for Hegel and planted a predilection for Kantian thinking in Howison's mind which remained for the rest of his life.\n\nHowison returned to the US in 1882, and hoped to teach at Harvard while James was on sabbatical, but Royce, being younger and very promising, was given preference. Howison taught privately for a year and although he did not want to leave Boston, he accepted a position at the University of Michigan, which turned out to be not to his liking. At this time, the University of California decided to begin a philosophy program and recruited Howison, now 50 and a prominent voice in academia, as the Mills Professor of Mental and Moral Philosophy and Civil Polity, and they invited Howison to create a philosophy program according to his own vision. Howison's extensive administrative experience along with his connections to the eastern and mid-western intellectual lights led to great success. Howison was also an inspiring teacher and so the program attracted students easily. Howison's Philosophical Union became a prominent host for public lectures and even debates, hosting such speakers as James, Royce, and John Dewey.\n\nHowison became a popular and controversial speaker and became the progenitor of the California school of American personalism. His heterodox teachings about the nature of God placed him at odds with the theological community, but his incisive ability to defend it against all challenges and his personal charity and moral excellence kept him safe from serious personal attacks. Despite Howison's dissatisfaction with other contemporary and historical metaphysicians, he did continue to profess Christianity. He recognized that his support of Jesus' position was not accepted as he might have hoped by his Christian peers, but maintained that his theory of personal idealism was in line with Jesus' teaching, particularly as presented by \"the 4th gospeler\", John. He said: \"I feel the strongest assurance that my new interpretation of the name of God is the genuine fulfilment of the highest and profoundest prescience in the historic religious life.\"\n\nWhile he was well known and widely respected in the young professional discipline of philosophy, Howison did not publish prolifically. Most of those who have written on Howsion attribute his reluctance to publish to his perfectionism regarding language and writing. He was exacting, as is indicated by his revision of a widely used dictionary of English synonyms (1892).\n\nHowison was well aware of what the history of philosophy had to offer. In fact, he has classified the contributions into four groups, highlighting the type of error into which each fell. The best of these still fail by their recourse to efficient causation, where Howison notes (p. 394) that \"combating it is like fighting organised civilisation itself.\"\n\nThe core of Howison's philosophy can be captured in four points: “The Limits of Evolution”, “Personalism”, “Pluralism”, and “Idealism”: \n\nThis first point establishes a fundamental limit to the notion of evolution. Experience cannot be the efficient cause of the capacity to experience. An experience involves an organization of information, howsoever primitive, which could never come about without recourse to an \"a priori\" organizing principle. The distinction between that which is presented to the senses (outer and/or inner), that is, phenomena, and that which is prerequisite for such apprehension, and noumenal, firmly establishes complexity in the philosopher's quest. To wit (pp. 17–8):\n\n\"He\" [Kant] suggested that experience may be not at all simple, but always complex, so that the very possibility of the experience which seems to the empiricist the absolute foundation of knowledge may depend on the presence in it of a factor that will have to be acknowledged as \"a priori\".\n\nThis second point establishes the nature and scope of the noumenon. The kernal of the noumenon is Truth which is True whatsoever, with no possibility that it should ever be untrue. For example: Pi is an irrational number, Necessarily. Howison provides arguments not only for the noumenality of time-and-space, but, and most importantly, goes all the way to \"Truth, Beauty, and, finally, the Good, i.e. benignant love.\" This second point shows that the nature of the noumenon, the eternal, the Mind, the continuous copula, is undoubtedly a Person, and firmly establishes personalism in the philosopher's quest. To wit (p. 54):\n\nFulfilled philosophy vindicates our faith in the Personality of the Eternal Ideal, in the reality of God, by vindicating the reality of man the Mind, and exhibiting his legislative relation to Nature and thence to evolution.\n\nThis third point establishes the personal demand for reciprocity, mutual personalism, pluralism. Personality is not only \"a priori\" complex, but also \"a priori\" relational. And, at its best, is in some sense all-inclusive, universal. This point goes so far as to argue that no conception of God which does not rise to this degree of dignity, ultimate and eventual individual parity, in rights and duties, is no conception of God at all. To wit (pp. 338–9):\n\nWe are not to evade, then, the eternity of free beings that is implied in any serious demand for freedom. If the souls of men are really free, they coexist with God in the eternity which God inhabits, and in the governing total of their self-active being they are of the same nature as he, — they too are self-put rational wholes of self-conscious life. As complete reason is \"his\" essence, so is reason \"their\" essence—their nature in the large—whatever may be the varying conditions under which their selfhood, the required \"peculiarity\" of each, may bring it to appear.\n\nThis fourth point secures morality and freedom by confirming that our creative faculty is one of final causation, or idealism. This point is mediated by Howison's argument that freedom and determinism harmonize upon \"definiteness\". It confirms that the proper meaning of a Person's \"eternity\" is that the whole of its being is \"self-supplying\", that it is \"causa sui\". It confirms that a complete definition of freedom dictates that the soul has a \"fund of ultimate resources equal to fulfilling its duty to love as God loves.\" To wit (p. 350-1):\n\nI am to show you, too, that in the world of eternal free-agents, the Divine offices called creation and regeneration not only survive, but are transfigured; that in this transfiguration they are merged in one, so that regeneration is implicit in creation, and becomes the logical spring and aim of creation, while creation itself thus insures both generation and regeneration—the existence of the natural order within the spiritual or rational, and subject to this, and the consequent gradual transformation of the natural into the image of the spiritual: a process never to be interrupted, however devious, dark, or often retrograde, its course may be. I am to show you all this by the light of Final Cause, which is to take the place of the less rational category of Efficient Causation, since—let it be repeated — this last cannot operate to sustain moral relationship, and since moral values, measured in real freedom, are for the conscience and the new theology the measure of all reality.\n\nIn 1897 Josiah Royce gave a talk which, along with the arguments of Sidney Edward Mezes, Joseph LeConte, and Howison (presaging his later definitive opus), and the follow-up replies by Royce Himself, was published in the book entitled \"The Conception of God: A philosophical discussion concerning the nature of the divine idea as a demonstrable reality\" (edited by Howison). Howison's section, entitled \"The City of God, and the True God as its Head\", spans pages 79–132.\n\nHowison characterized Royce's God:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43284143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43284143", "title": "George Khutsishvili", "text": "George Khutsishvili\n\nGeorge Khutsishvili Doctor of Philosophy , Professor (15November 19484October 2013), was a prominent Georgian public figure, one of the founders of conflictology in Georgia and the Caucasian region and a scientist in the field of peace and conflict studies. In 1994 he founded the independent non-for-profit and non-partisan International Center on Conflict and Negotiation (ICCN). Between 1995 and 2013 he was the publisher of \"Peace Times\", \"Conflicts and Negotiations\" and \"Alternatives to Conflict’\" amongst others. For many years he was invited to work as a professor at different leading universities in Georgia and abroad. George Khutsishvili made significant input into study of the essence of theoretical thinking and the problem of the infinite in the light of philosophy and mathematics (1970-80s). From the 1990s to the end of his days he dedicated his life to establishing and developing peace and conflict studies in Georgia.\n\nKhutsishvili was born on 15 November 1948 in Tbilisi to the family of Shota and Sophio (Samiko) Khutsishvili. He quickly developed a professional knowledge of Russian and English, and considered trilingual in English, Russian, Georgian, as well as a basic knowledge of German, Polish and the Italian languages.\n\nIn 1966 Khutsishvili graduated from the Tbilisi I.N.Vekua phys-math secondary school N42, and enrolled in Tbilisi State University, in the department of mechanics and mathematics, from which he graduated in 1971. In 1976, he passed his PhD defense with a thesis on “Infinity and the Problem of its Abstraction in Science” and was awarded the degree of Doctor of Philosophy in 1977. The Supreme Attestation Commission (Moscow) awarded him the title of Professor of Philosophy in 1982. In 1987, he completed an intensive course in “English Language Simultaneous Translations” and was awarded a diploma.In 1991 He was invited to Kiev due to his published work in Russian. In 1991 he was awarded a degree of Doctor of Philosophy by the Ukraine Academy of Sciences, In 1995, he was awarded the Harvard Law School Certificate of Negotiation Training of the Program of Instruction for Lawyers.\n\nIn 1971-1972, he worked as an applied mathematician at the Institute of Management Systems at the Academy of Sciences of Georgia . In 1972-1979 he worked as a researcher and then as a senior researcher at the Institute of Philosophy of the Georgian Academy of Sciences.\n\nIn 1979, Khutsishvili was elected deputy chair of the Methodological Council of the Academy of Sciences, and later was co-chair until 1988 . He was frequently invited to deliver public lectures on democratic reforms, which the Methodological Council was conducting regularly in the period of Gorbachev’s “Perestroika”. In October 1988, on behalf of the East German organization Kulturbund, Olaph Krebe, invited him to several leading Universities in Germany to deliver a series of lectures (the Alexander Humboldt University, East Berlin, the Karl Marx University, and the Leipzig, Halle and Dresden Universities). \nAt the end of the 80s, Khutsishvili started researching various methodologies of finding water, biolocation, and bioenergy. His interest in this field was stirred after meeting with the representatives of American dowsers at a Conference in 1989 in the United States. Later, from the beginning of the 1990s, he became a member of the American Society of Dowsers. In 1989, the Institute of Neotic Sciences invited George Khutsishvili to conduct research and awarded him a membership for one year (1990-1991).\n\nIn 1988-1990 he went on to work as the head of the Department of Social Sciences at the Ministry of Education of Georgia. In 1992, the Tbilisi State Institute of Foreign languages and Pedagogical Sciences elected him full professor. He had earlier since 1981 held the position of associate professor and chair of Philosophy.\n\nThe State Committee for Human Rights and Ethnic Relations, established in 1992, opened the Centre for Conflict Analysis, especially for Professor George Khutsishvili. The Centre functioned for 1 year.\n\nOn 8 January 1993, Khutsishvili was invited to be a Research Fellow to the Centre for International Security and Arms Control, at Stanford University in the United States While there, he received funding from David Packard, The American press at that time spoke about George Khutsishvili as a “Fellowship Brings Unique Georgian Perspective to Stanford”. He was offered work as a consultant the following year in the same Centre, on ethnic conflicts in the post-Soviet space (1994–95).\n\nIn the spring of 1993 he was awarded a NATO Research Fellowship (Democratic Institutions Individual Fellowships Program) grant for “Caucasus Knot of Conflicts in Light of Growing Global Insecurity”. In 1994 he became Associate Professor of Conflict and Peace Studies at the Department of International Law and International Relations, at Iv. Javakhishvili Tbilisi State University, where he worked until 2006.\n\nIn 1995 –1997, he was appointed professor of Sociology at the American University of Hawaii's Tbilisi Campus. In 1995, he was elected Vice - President of the Academy of Georgian Philosophic Sciences. He held this position through 1997. He in 1998, Khutsishvili was invited to the position of professor of Conflict Studies, at the Humanitarian-Technical Department of the Georgian Technical University, where he delivered lectures until 2001 .\n\nFrom 2001-2010, George Khutsishvili had been invited to be a member of several state commissions at different ministries to work on Caucasus oil/gas pipeline projects, public opinion and media, the development of a National Security Concept for Georgia, cooperation with civil society, conflict resolution, elections, and other issues.\n\nIn 2006-2011, he held the position of a full professor at the Georgian University. For many years, he worked as a member of the commission for selecting academic positions, and on the scientific board for granting degrees in the social sciences at Iv. Javakhishvili Tbilisi State University.\n\nIn 2008-2009 he worked as the Chief Investigator of the Multi-track Dialogue for the Georgian-Abkhazian Conflict, in an international programme supported by the European Commission. In 2001-2002, 2009, and 2011-2012, he was invited by the USAID to become a member of conflict assessment mission groups in Georgia. \n\nKhutsishvili developed his interest in conflict resolution from the beginning of the 1990s. At that time, this field did not exist in Georgia, while in the west it was rather well developed. In that period, he worked in the Tbilisi Business School where he first introduced his course of studies in conflictology.\nUpon his return from the United States in 1994, Khutsishvili established the first independent high-profile organization in Georgia, which gave birth to the Georgian educational and scientific programs on conflict and peace studies. George Khutsishvili and 63 other founding members launched their organization at a meeting held on 8 August 1994, where they established “The International Center on Conflicts and Negotiations Strategy”. He was granted status as the founder. This non-profit organization with international status was registered by the Department of Registration of the Ministry of Justice of Republic of Georgia on 3 October 1994.\n\nOn 30 December 1998, the name of the centre was changed to the International Center on Conflict and Negotiation (ICCN) ([www.ICCN.ge]). Khutsishvili headed the Center until the end of his life. The Centre continues its activities and is a powerful, field-oriented NGO in Georgia, as well as in the Caucasian region .\n\nStarting in 1995, he edited and issued trilingual magazines and bulletins which provided relevant expert and educational materials on conflict and peace issues for conflict affected\n\npopulations. With this, he made a valuable contribution to strengthening civil society; (“Conflicts and Negotiations” (1995-2001); “Alternative” (1996-1998); “Monada” (1997-1998); “Alternative to Conflict” (1998-2003); “Peace Times” (2001-2013)).\n\nSince 1995, the foundation has been laid for Georgian-Abkhaz and Georgian-Ossetian dialogues, on the initiative of George Khutsishvili, in the format of public diplomacy. The International Centre on Conflict and Negotiation headed by Khutsishvili was a pioneer to start dialogue process. He addressed the Abkhaz people at the Conference (1995) in Moscow, proposing to start the first dialogue, where he met Manana Gurgulia and Roman Dbar. Kumar Rupesinkhe, who was then a representative of International Alert (IA), London, took an interest in Khutsishvili’s idea, and later the first Georgian-Abkhazian dialogue project was implemented with Rupesinkhe’s support. This project lasted for many years. The first Georgian-Abkhazian dialogue took place in July 1996 . The process of a Georgian–Ossetian dialogue started in 1995 . The famous scientist Roger Fisher contacted professor Khutsishvili and offered his cooperation in the Georgian–Ossetian and Georgian-Abkhazian format (Conflict Management Group (CMG) USA). This is how the Georgian–Ossetian dialogue started with the support and financial aid of the NRC (Norwegian Refugee Council). From the very start, this organization ensured their support to Khutsishvili’s Centre in educational programs for IDPs (Internally Displaced Persons). The first Georgian-Ossetian meeting took place in January 1996, in Oslo, upon the request of the NRC .\n\nIn 1996, Khutsishvili held a joint seminar on “Developing a Regional Security Concept for the Caucasus” with NATO . This seminar attracted the attention of the West with the following message of his organization: “We need to develop the concept of regional security first, rather than the concepts of national security”. The working topic of this seminar was based on George Khutsishvili’s idea, which he had proposed to NATO . In that period, NATO was developing the concept of national security in almost all post–Soviet countries, in order to help the nations. Khutsishvili’s idea, which insisted that national security concepts could not be developed without regional security concepts, was considered, discussed and summarized at the seminar. The results were published in the following book in the Georgian and English languages: “Developing a Regional Security Concept for the Caucasus”, International Conference materials, 4–6 October 1996, Tbilisi, Georgia. Editor–George Khutsishvili, 1997 . Later, NATO introduced the above approach to many other countries. \nIn 2003, he was one of the conveners of a special meeting that founded the “Public Movement against Religious Extremism” to counteract the violent actions of religious extremism that had been gaining momentum in that period. .In 2003-2013, he was a member of the International Steering Group of the Global Partnership for the Prevention of Armed Conflict (GPPAC). Within the format of this network, he participated in the work of groups studying different conflicts all over the world. As well as that, he was a member of special missions for international conflict studies, prevention and resolution. The organization founded by George Khutsishvili continues its membership in the GPPAC network, and is its representative in the Caucasus.\n\nThe first NGO Congress was held in 2006 in Georgia, followed by the Second and Third NGO Congresses, in 2007 and 2008 respectively, in which Georgian NGOs participated extensively.\n\nAfter the Russian-Georgian War in August 2008, the post-war rounds of Georgian-Russian meetings and negotiations started on the initiative of professor George Khutsishvili, which later was called the Istanbul Process, being named so due to it being the first post-war meeting ever, which was held in Istanbul in November 2008 . This very first meeting laid the foundation for expert dialogue, which is still going on within the same format. By means of this dialogue, experts have studied the fundamental reasons of the conflict and the ways towards its resolution, jointly. The materials of this Georgian-Russian dialogue, and the ways discussed of overcoming the crises, have already been published in a book.\n\nG. Khutsishvili was one of the initiators and a founder of the Public Constitutional Commission (PCC), www.konstitucia.ge), which was created in response to the existing political crisis in the country. This PCC united constitutionalists and public figures of the country in 2009-2011 . The Public Constitutional Commission developed a completely revised version of the Constitution for the country, which was free from political and party interests. This version of the Constitution of Georgia, which was developed by the authorship of 17 commission members, was published on 9 April 2010 in a book form (an Expanded Concept of the New Edition of the Constitution of Georgia, Tbilisi, 9 April 2010, ).\n\nGeorge Khutsishvili died unexpectedly on 4 October 2013 during an academic meeting e session of the commission for the selection of academic positions.\n\nThe author of 20 monographs and co-author and/or compiling editor of many others; the author or co-author of more than 200 scientific articles published in Georgian, English and Russian languages, one fiction, and many social and political articles in newspapers.\n\nauthor,co_author, editor,publisher\n\n"}
{"id": "167936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=167936", "title": "Guru", "text": "Guru\n\nGuru (, ; , IAST: \"guru\") is a Sanskrit term that connotes someone who is a \"teacher, guide, expert, or master\" of certain knowledge or field. In pan-Indian traditions, \"guru\" is more than a teacher, in Sanskrit \"guru\" means the one who dispels the darkness and takes towards light, traditionally a reverential figure to the student, with the \"guru\" serving as a \"counselor, who helps mold values, shares experiential knowledge as much as literal knowledge, an exemplar in life, an inspirational source and who helps in the spiritual evolution of a student\". The term also refers to someone who primarily is one's spiritual guide, who helps one to discover the same potentialities that the \"guru\"s already realized. \"Guru\" is also the word for \"teacher\" in Indonesian and Malay language.\n\nThe oldest references to the concept of \"guru\" are found in the earliest Vedic texts of Hinduism. The \"guru\", and \"gurukul\" – a school run by \"guru\", were an established tradition in India by the 1st millennium BCE, and these helped compose and transmit the various Vedas, the Upanishads, texts of various schools of Hindu philosophy, and post-Vedic Shastras ranging from spiritual knowledge to various arts. By about mid 1st millennium CE, archaeological and epigraphical evidence suggest numerous larger institutions of \"gurus\" existed in India, some near Hindu temples, where guru-shishya tradition helped preserve, create and transmit various fields of knowledge. These gurus led broad ranges of studies including Hindu scriptures, Buddhist texts, grammar, philosophy, martial arts, music and painting.\n\nThe tradition of \"guru\" is also found in Jainism, referring to a spiritual preceptor, a role typically served by a Jain ascetic. In Sikhism, the \"guru\" tradition has played a key role since its founding in the 15th century, its founder is referred to as Guru Nanak, and its scripture as Guru Granth Sahib. The guru concept has thrived in Vajrayāna Buddhism, where the tantric guru is considered a figure to worship and whose instructions should never be violated.\n\nIn the Western world, the term is sometimes used in a derogatory way to refer to individuals who have allegedly exploited their followers' naiveté, particularly in certain tantra schools, self-help, hippie and new religious movements.\n\nGuru is not just a person but it is considered as the divine guiding energy which helps humanity to realise its true nature. This energy works through an able person who is pure enough to hold it. This is the reason in Hinduism Guru is considered as God himself.<nowiki></nowiki>\n\nThe word \"\" (Sanskrit: ), a noun, connotes \"teacher\" in Sanskrit, but in Indian traditions it has contextual meanings with significance beyond what teacher means in English. The \"guru\" is more than someone who teaches specific type of knowledge, and includes in its scope someone who is also a \"counselor, a sort of parent of mind and soul, who helps mold values and experiential knowledge as much as specific knowledge, an exemplar in life, an inspirational source and who reveals the meaning of life.\" The word has the same meaning in other languages derived from or borrowing words from Sanskrit, such as Hindi, Marathi, Punjabi, Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, Malayalam, Odia, Bengali, Gujarati and Nepali. The Malayalam term Acharyan or Asan are derived from the Sanskrit word Acharya.\n\nAs a noun the word means the imparter of knowledge (\"jñāna\"; also Pali: \"ñāna\"). As an adjective, it means 'heavy,' or 'weighty,' in the sense of \"heavy with knowledge,\" heavy with spiritual wisdom, \"heavy with spiritual weight,\" \"heavy with the good qualities of scriptures and realization,\" or \"heavy with a wealth of knowledge.\" The word has its roots in the Sanskrit \"gri\" (to invoke, or to praise), and may have a connection to the word \"gur\", meaning 'to raise, lift up, or to make an effort'.\n\nSanskrit \"guru\" is cognate with Latin \"gravis\" 'heavy; grave, weighty, serious' and Greek βαρύς \"barus\" 'heavy'. All three derive from the Proto-Indo-European root \"*gʷerə-\", specifically from the zero-grade form *\"gʷr̥ə-\".\n\nAnother etymological theory considers the term \"guru\" to be based on the syllables \"gu\" () and \"ru\" (), which it claims stands for darkness and \"light that dispels it\", respectively. The guru is seen as the one who \"dispels the darkness of ignorance.\"\n\nReender Kranenborg disagrees, stating that darkness and light have nothing to do with the word \"guru\". He describes this as a folk etymology.\n\nJoel Mlecko states, \"\"Gu\" means ignorance, and \"Ru\" means dispeller,\" with \"guru\" meaning the one who \"dispels ignorance, all kinds of ignorance\", ranging from spiritual to skills such as dancing, music, sports and others. Karen Pechelis states that, in the popular parlance, the \"dispeller of darkness, one who points the way\" definition for \"guru\" is common in the Indian tradition.\n\nIn \"Western Esotericism and the Science of Religion\", Pierre Riffard makes a distinction between \"occult\" and \"scientific\" etymologies, citing as an example of the former the etymology of 'guru' in which the derivation is presented as \"gu\" (\"darkness\") and \"ru\" ('to push away'); the latter he exemplifies by \"guru\" with the meaning of 'heavy'.\n\nThe \"Guru\" is an ancient and central figure in the traditions of Hinduism. The ultimate liberation, contentment, freedom in the form of moksha and inner perfection is considered achievable in the Hindu belief by two means: with the help of \"guru\", and with evolution through the process of karma including rebirth in some schools of Hindu philosophy. At an individual level in Hinduism, the Guru is many things, including being a teacher of skills, a counselor, one who helps in the birth of mind and realization of one's soul, who instils values and experiential knowledge, an exemplar, an inspiration and who helps guide a student's (\"śiṣya\") spiritual development. At a social and religious level, the Guru helps continue the religion and Hindu way of life. Guru thus has a historic, reverential and an important role in the Hindu culture.\n\nThe word \"Guru\" is mentioned in the earliest layer of Vedic texts. The hymn 4.5.6 of Rigveda, for example, states Joel Mlecko, describes the guru as, \"the source and inspirer of the knowledge of the Self, the essence of reality,\" for one who seeks.\n\nThe Upanishads, that is the later layers of the Vedic text, mention \"guru\". Chandogya Upanishad, in chapter 4.4 for example, declares that it is only through \"guru\" that one attains the knowledge that matters, the insights that lead to Self-knowledge. The Katha Upanisad, in verse 1.2.8 declares the guru as indispensable to the acquisition of knowledge. In chapter 3 of Taittiriya Upanishad, human knowledge is described as that which connects the teacher and the student through the medium of exposition, just like a child is the connecting link between the father and the mother through the medium of procreation. In the Taittiriya Upanishad, the \"guru\" then urges a student, states Mlecko, to \"struggle, discover and experience the Truth, which is the source, stay and end of the universe.\"\n\nThe ancient tradition of reverence for the \"guru\" in Hindu scriptures is apparent in 6.23 of the Shvetashvatara Upanishad, which equates the need of reverence and devotion for \"guru\" to be the same as for god,\n\nThe Bhagavad Gita is a dialogue where Krishna speaks to Arjuna of the role of a guru, and similarly emphasizes in verse 4.34 that those who know their subject well are eager for good students, and the student can learn from such a \"guru\" through reverence, service, effort and the process of inquiry.\n\nThe 8th century Hindu text \"Upadesasahasri\" of the Advaita Vedanta philosopher Adi Shankara discusses the role of the guru in assessing and guiding students. In Chapter 1, he states that teacher is the pilot as the student walks in the journey of knowledge, he is the raft as the student rows. The text describes the need, role and characteristics of a teacher, as follows,\n\nAdi Shankara presents a series of examples wherein he asserts that the best way to guide a student is not to give immediate answers, but posit dialogue-driven questions that enable the student to discover and understand the answer.\n\nTraditionally, the \"Guru\" would live a simple married life, and accept \"shishya\" (student, Sanskrit: शिष्य) where he lived. A person would begin a life of study in the Gurukula (the household of the \"Guru\"). The process of acceptance included proffering firewood and sometimes a gift to the guru, signifying that the student wants to live with, work and help the \"guru\" in maintaining the \"gurukul\", and as an expression of a desire for education in return over several years. At the Gurukul, the working student would study the basic traditional vedic sciences and various practical skills-oriented sastras along with the religious texts contained within the Vedas and Upanishads. The education stage of a youth with a \"guru\" was referred to as Brahmacharya, and in some parts of India this followed the Upanayana or Vidyarambha rites of passage.\n\nThe gurukul would be a hut in a forest, or it was, in some cases, a monastery, called a \"matha\" or \"ashram\" or \"sampradaya\" in different parts of India. These had a lineage of gurus, who would study and focus on certain schools of Hindu philosophy or trade, and these were known as guru-shishya \"parampara\" (teacher-student tradition). This \"guru\"-driven tradition included arts such as sculpture, poetry and music.\n\nInscriptions from 4th century CE suggest the existence of \"gurukuls\" around Hindu temples, called \"Ghatikas\" or \"Mathas\", where the Vedas were studied. In south India, 9th century Vedic schools attached to Hindu temples were called \"Calai\" or \"Salai\", and these provided free boarding and lodging to students and scholars. Archaeological and epigraphical evidence suggests that ancient and medieval era gurukuls near Hindu temples offered wide range of studies, ranging from Hindu scriptures to Buddhist texts, grammar, philosophy, martial arts, music and painting.\n\nThe \"Guru (teacher) Shishya (disciple) parampara\" or guru parampara, occurs where the \"knowledge\" (in any field) is passed down through the succeeding generations. It is the traditional, residential form of education, where the Shishya remains and learns with his Guru as a family member. The fields of study in traditional guru-sisya parampara were diverse, ranging from Hindu philosophy, martial arts, music, dance to various Vedangas.\n\nThe Hindu texts offer a conflicting view of whether access to \"guru\" and education was limited to men and to certain \"varna\" (castes). The Vedas and the Upanishads never mention any restrictions based either on gender or on \"varna\". The Yajurveda and Atharvaveda texts state that knowledge is for everyone, and offer examples of women and people from all segments of society who are \"guru\" and participated in vedic studies. The Upanishads assert that one's birth does not determine one's eligibility for spiritual knowledge, only one's effort and sincerity matters.\n\nIn theory, the early Dharma-sutras and Dharma-sastras, such as Paraskara Grhyasutra, Gautama Smriti and Yajnavalkya smriti, state all four varnas are eligible to all fields of knowledge; while verses of Manusmriti state that Vedic study is available only to men of three varnas, unavailable to Shudra and women. In practice, state Stella Kramrisch and others, the guru tradition and availability of education extended to all segments of ancient and medieval society. Lise McKean states the \"guru\" concept has been prevalent over the range of class and caste backgrounds, and the disciples a guru attracts come from both genders and a range of classes and castes. During the bhakti movement of Hinduism, which started in about mid 1st millennium CE, the \"gurus\" included women and members of all \"varna\".\n\nThe Advayataraka Upanishad states that the true teacher is a master in the field of knowledge, well-versed in the Vedas, is free from envy, knows yoga, lives a simple life that of a yogi, has realized the knowledge of the \"Atman\" (Soul, Self). Some scriptures and gurus have warned against false teachers, and have recommended that the spiritual seeker test the guru before accepting him. Swami Vivekananda said that there are many incompetent gurus, and that a true guru should understand the spirit of the scriptures, have a pure character and be free from sin, and should be selfless, without desire for money and fame.\n\nAccording to the Indologist Georg Feuerstein, in some traditions of Hinduism, when one reaches the state of Self-knowledge, one's own soul becomes the \"guru\". In Tantra, states Feuerstein, the guru is the \"ferry who leads one across the ocean of existence.\" A true \"guru\" guides and counsels a student's spiritual development because, states \"Yoga-Bija\", endless logic and grammar leads to confusion, and not contentment. However, various Hindu texts caution prudence and diligence in finding the right \"guru\", and avoiding the wrong ones. For example, in \"Kula-Arnava\" text states the following guidance:\n\nA true guru is, asserts \"Kula-Arnava\", one who lives the simple virtuous life he preaches, is stable and firm in his knowledge, master yogi with the knowledge of Self (soul) and Brahman (ultimate reality). The guru is one who initiates, transmits, guides, illuminates, debates and corrects a student in the journey of knowledge and of self-realization. The attribute of the successful guru is to help make the disciple into another guru, one who transcends him, and becomes a \"guru\" unto himself, driven by inner spirituality and principles.\n\nIn modern neo-Hinduism, Kranenborg states \"guru\" may refer to entirely different concepts, such as a \"spiritual advisor\", or someone who performs traditional rituals outside a temple, or an \"enlightened master\" in the field of tantra or yoga or eastern arts who derives his authority from his experience, or a reference by a group of devotees of a sect to someone considered a god-like \"Avatar\" by the sect.\n\nThe tradition of reverence for \"guru\" continues in several denominations within modern Hinduism, but he or she is typically never considered as a prophet, but one who points the way to spirituality, Oneness of being, and meaning in life.\n\nIn some forms of Buddhism, states Rita Gross, the concept of Guru is of supreme importance.\n\nIn Vajrayana Buddhism's Tantric teachings, the rituals require the guidance of a guru. The guru is considered essential and to the Buddhist devotee, the guru is the \"enlightened teacher and ritual master\", states Stephen Berkwitz. The guru is known as the \"vajra guru\" (literally \"diamond guru\"). Initiations or ritual empowerments are necessary before the student is permitted to practice a particular tantra, in Vajrayana Buddhist sects found in Tibet and South Asia. The tantras state that the guru is equivalent to Buddha, states Berkwitz, and is a figure to worship and whose instructions should never be violated.\n\nThere are Four Kinds of Lama (Guru) or spiritual teacher (Tib. lama nampa shyi) in Tibetan Buddhism:\n\nIn various Buddhist traditions, there are equivalent words for \"guru\", which include \"Shastri\" (teacher), \"Kalyana Mitra\" (friendly guide, Pali: Kalyāṇa-mittatā), \"Acarya\" (master), and \"Vajra-Acarya\" (hierophant). The \"guru\" is literally understood as \"weighty\", states Alex Wayman, and it refers to the Buddhist tendency to increase the weight of canons and scriptures with their spiritual studies. In Mahayana Buddhism, a term for Buddha is Bhaisajya guru, which refers to \"medicine guru\", or \"a doctor who cures suffering with the medicine of his teachings\".\n\n\"Guru\" is the spiritual preceptor in Jainism, and typically a role served by Jain ascetics. The \"guru\" is one of three fundamental \"tattva\" (categories), the other two being \"dharma\" (teachings) and \"deva\" (divinity). The \"guru-tattva\" is what leads a lay person to the other two \"tattva\". In some communities of the Śvētāmbara sect of Jainism, a traditional system of \"guru-disciple\" lineage exists.\n\nThe \"guru\" is revered in Jainism ritually with \"Guru-vandan\" or \"Guru-upashti\", where respect and offerings are made to the \"guru\", and the \"guru\" sprinkles a small amount of \"vaskep\" (a scented powder mixture of sandalwood, saffron, and camphor) on the devotee's head with a mantra or blessings.\n\nIn Sikhism, \"Guru\" is the source of all knowledge which is Almighty. In Chopai Sahib, Guru Gobind Singh states about who is the Guru:\n\nThe Sikh gurus were fundamental to the Sikh religion, however the concept in Sikhism differs from other usages. Sikhism is derived from the Sanskrit word \"shishya\", or disciple and is all about the relationship between the teacher and a student. The concept of Guru in Sikhism stands on two pillars i.e. Miri-Piri. 'Piri' means spiritual authority and 'Miri' means temporal authority. Therefore, Guru in Sikhism is a teacher-leader. Traditionally, the concept of Guru is considered central in Sikhism, and its main scripture is prefixed as a \"Guru\", called Guru Granth Sahib, the words therein called \"Gurbani\".\n\nAs an alternative to established religions, some people in Europe and the USA looked to spiritual guides and gurus from India and other countries. Gurus from many denominations traveled to Western Europe and the USA and established followings.\n\nIn particular during the 1960s and 1970s many gurus acquired groups of young followers in Western Europe and the USA. According to the American sociologist David G. Bromley this was partially due to the repeal of the Chinese Exclusion Act in 1965 which permitted Asian gurus entrance to the USA. According to the Dutch Indologist Albertina Nugteren, the repeal was only one of several factors and a minor one compared with the two most important causes for the surge of all things 'Eastern': the post-war cross-cultural mobility and the general dissatisfaction with established Western values. According to the professor in sociology Stephen A. Kent at the University of Alberta and Kranenborg (1974), one of the reasons why in the 1970s young people including hippies turned to gurus was because they found that drugs had opened for them the existence of the transcendental or because they wanted to get \"high\" without drugs. According to Kent, another reason why this happened so often in the USA then, was because some anti-Vietnam War protesters and political activists became worn out or disillusioned of the possibilities to change society through political means, and as an alternative turned to religious means. Some gurus and the groups they lead attracted opposition. One example of such group was the Hare Krishna movement (ISKCON) founded by A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada in 1966, many of whose followers voluntarily accepted the demandingly ascetic lifestyle of bhakti yoga on a full-time basis, in stark contrast to much of the popular culture of the time.\n\nAccording to Kranenborg (1984), Jesus Christ fits the Hindu definition and characteristics of a guru.\"\n\nGurus and the Guru-shishya tradition have been criticized and assessed by secular scholars, theologians, anti-cultists, skeptics, and religious philosophers.\n\n"}
{"id": "28855353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28855353", "title": "Guy Besse", "text": "Guy Besse\n\nGuy Besse (25 November 1919 – 16 February 2004) was a French philosopher and politician, a member of the executive of the French Communist Party (PCF).\n\nA member of the Responsible du Front National while a student in Lyon under the pseudonym of \"César\", he was part of the Mouvement Jeunes Communistes de France during the Resistance, and was the national secretary of the Union of Communist Students from 1944 to 1945.\n\nAgrégé professor of philosophy, he graduated from lycée in Bourges, then studied at the University of Caen Lower Normandy, the Sorbonne and the French National Centre for Scientific Research.\n\nHe published a number of socialist texts for many years, and in March 1970, replaced Roger Garaudy as the head of the Centre d’études et de recherches marxistes.\n\nA member of the Central Committee of the PCF from 1956, he joined its Political Bureau 11 years later as an alternate member, and was its head in 1970.\n\nHe withdrew from the PCF in February 1985.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22574519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22574519", "title": "Gyalpo spirits", "text": "Gyalpo spirits\n\nGyalpo spirits are one of the eight classes of haughty gods and spirits () in Tibetan mythology and religion. Gyalpo (), a word which simply means \"king\" in the Tibetic languages, in Tibetan mythology is used to refer to the Four Heavenly Kings () and especially to a class of spirits, both Buddhist and Bon, who may be either malevolent spirits or oath-bound as dharmapalas ().\n\nGeoffrey Samuel describes these gyalpo spirits as \"king-spirits\" who are \"the spirits of evil kings or of high lamas who have failed their vows.\" He also states that they are white in color. De Nebesky-Wojkowitz characterizes this type of spirit as generally red in colour and of violent character, harassing mainly lamas and religious people, but also laity and even animals. In fact, gyalpo spirits often have both white (peaceful) and red (wrathful) forms.\n\nIt is believed one can be protected against gyalpo spirits by means of appropriate rituals. In religious meditation instructions texts attributed to Padmasambhava, he warns his disciples against magical displays of this class of spirits.\n\nSome gyalpos are believed to be bound by oath by Padmasambhava, for example Gyalpo Pehar is believed to be the main guardian of Samye, built at the time of Padmasambhava and King Trisong Detsen.\n\nMachig Labdrön enumerated outer, inner and secret ways gyalpo spirits manifest. The outer way are very elegant temples with beautiful ornaments, crystal stupas and many offerings, rich with silver and gold, with well dressed monks giving teachings, full of charisma; their characteristic provocation is nervousness and confusion. Tulku Urgyen Rinpoche (1920–1996) wrote that as very often gyalpos manifest as masters, spiritual teachers and enlightened beings, several highly realised practitioners of the past fell for their tricks.\n\nAccording to Tibetan Buddhist myth, Gyalpo Pehar (] [also spelt: \"pe kar\" & \"dpe dkar\") is the chief spirit belonging to the gyalpo class. When Padmasambhava arrived in Tibet in the eighth century, he subdued all gyalpo spirits and put them under control of Gyalpo Pehar, who promised not to harm any sentient beings and was made the chief guardian spirit of the Samye Temple built at that time. Some Tibetans believe that the protector of Samye sometimes enters the body of a medium (called the \"Dharma Lord of Samye\") and acts as an oracle.\n\nThe Great Dharma King \"(rgyal chen)\" Nechung Dorje Drakden (rdo rje grags ldan) or Nechung Chokyong (chos skyong) is considered to be the chief minister of Gyalpo Pehar or the same as the activity aspect of Gyalpo Pehar. It is the spirit of this deity which possesses the Nechung Oracle or State Oracle of Tibet.\n\n"}
{"id": "20145877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20145877", "title": "Johannite Church", "text": "Johannite Church\n\nThe Johannite Church, properly known by its full name, \"l'Église Johannite des Chrétiens Primitifs\" (The Johannite Church of Primitive Christians), is a Gnostic Christian denomination founded by the French priest Bernard-Raymond Fabré-Palaprat in 1804. The Johannite Church received its full name in 1828 after Fabré-Palaprat's claimed discovery of the \"Levitikon\" gospels. It is \"Johannite\" because it claims a continuity with the primitive Johannine Christianity of the saints John the Baptist and John the Apostle, and the Christian scriptures attributed to John.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26093798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26093798", "title": "Juha Varto", "text": "Juha Varto\n\nJuha Varto (born 27 June 1949) is a Finnish philosopher, considered the most important phenomenologist in Finland, known also for his prolific output on a variety of philosophical themes. Since 1999 he has been professor of research in visual art and education at the Aalto University School of Art and Design, Helsinki. Before that he taught research methodology and acted as director of research in various Finnish universities and polytechnics (1992–1999) and before that taught philosophy at the University of Tampere (1973–1993). During the 1990s Varto produced over 100 programmes for Finnish radio and television, mainly dealing with philosophical questions. He has been awarded an honorary doctorate for theatre and drama by the Theatre Academy Helsinki. Autumn 2016, the president of Aalto University, Tuula Teeri, appointed Varto an Aalto Distinguished Professor in recognition of his significant scientific merits.\n\nJuly 2017, Varto retired from Aalto University.\n\nVarto’s early philosophical interest was in the history of logic; his mentor, professor Raili Kauppi was an internationally known Leibniz scholar and writer in intentional logic. Varto’s doctoral thesis dealt with the subject of 12th century logic. Later he wrote on questions that touch upon the relationship between formal and philosophical in logic. Varto’s main corpus of writing is in Finnish, since during his early career there were only few texts in Finnish in philosophy and even less on phenomenology. His pedagogical interest was in elaborating Plato’s texts as a starting point in philosophy. But he has also dealt with texts on Edmund Husserl, Martin Heidegger, Scheler, Adolf Reinach, Edith Stein, Maurice Merleau-Ponty, Emmanuel Levinas and Michel Henry. He has also studied the writings of Simone Weil and her approach to issues important to every day life. In recent years Varto has published extensive texts on aesthetics and artistic thinking and the methodology of artistic research.\n\nThe so-called ”Tampere School of Phenomenology” emerged around Varto’s scholarship activities in the 1980s. This group included both philosophers and scholars of other areas, such as politics and sociology. Today, many of his former students from that period hold leading positions in Finnish universities, as well as governmental institutions and private enterprises. The group identified itself as the ”Finnish Phenomenological Institute”, but after Varto moved to Helsinki it became known as the ”Society of European Philosophy”. The Institute published 44 volumes of scholarship in phenomenology, ranging from doctoral theses to monographs on individual intellectuals and translations of works by foreign intellectuals. Like Varto himself, the Institute and later the Society has been active in civil and public discussions on issues that previously lacked any intellectual approach. Notably, in 1993 they founded the philosophical journal ”niin&näin”, which became a known discussion forum, not tied to any particular school.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4164248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4164248", "title": "Keith Ward", "text": "Keith Ward\n\nKeith Ward (born 22 August 1938) is a British philosopher, theologian, priest and scholar. He is a fellow of the British Academy and a priest of the Church of England. He was a canon of Christ Church, Oxford until 2003. Comparative theology and the relationship between science and religion are two of his main topics of interest. He was Regius Professor of Divinity at the University of Oxford from 1991 to 2004.\n\nWard graduated in 1962 with a BA from the University of Wales and from 1964 to 1969 was a lecturer in logic at the University of Glasgow. He earned a BLitt from Linacre College, Oxford in 1968. From 1969 to 1971 he was lecturer in philosophy at the University of St Andrews. In 1972, he was ordained as a priest in the Church of England. From 1971 to 1975 he was lecturer in philosophy of religion at the University of London. From 1975 to 1983, he was dean of Trinity Hall, Cambridge. He was appointed the F. D. Maurice Professor of Moral and Social Theology at the University of London in 1982, professor of history and philosophy of religion at King's College London in 1985 and Regius Professor of Divinity at the University of Oxford in 1991, a post from which he retired in 2004.\n\nIn 1992, Ward was a visiting professor at the Claremont Graduate University in California. In 1993–94, he delivered the prestigious Gifford Lectures at the University of Glasgow. He was the Gresham Professor of Divinity between 2004 and 2008 at Gresham College, London.\n\nWard is on the council of the Royal Institute of Philosophy and is a member of the editorial boards of \"Religious Studies\", the \"Journal of Contemporary Religion\", \"Studies in Inter-Religious Dialogue\" and \"World Faiths Encounter\". He is a member of the board of governors of the Oxford Centre for Hindu Studies. He has also been a visiting professor at Drake University, Iowa, and at the University of Tulsa, Oklahoma.\n\nWard has MA and DD degrees from both Cambridge and Oxford universities, and an honorary DD from the University of Glasgow.\n\nOne of Ward's main focuses is the dialogue between religious traditions, an interest which led him to be joint president of the World Congress of Faiths (WCF) from 1992 to 2001. His work also explores concepts of God and the idea of revelation. He has also written on his opinion of a relationship between science and religion. As an advocate of theistic evolution, he regards evolution and Christianity as essentially compatible, a belief he has described in his book \"God, Chance and Necessity\" and which is in contrast to his Oxford colleague Richard Dawkins, a vocal and prominent atheist. Ward has said that Dawkins's conclusion that there is no God or any purpose in the universe is \"naive\" and not based on science but on a hatred of religion. Dawkins's strong anti-religious views originate, according to Ward, from earlier encounters with \"certain forms of religion which are anti-intellectual and anti-scientific ... and also emotionally pressuring.\" He has also been highly critical of materialist philosophers of consciousness such as Daniel Dennett, as well as social scientists such as Sigmund Freud and Karl Marx, arguing that they each attempt to reduce the human person into aspects of their own discipline.\n\nWard has described his own Christian faith as follows:\nI am a born-again Christian. I can give a precise day when Christ came to me and began to transform my life with his power and love. He did not make me a saint. But he did make me a forgiven sinner, liberated and renewed, touched by divine power and given the immense gift of an intimate sense of the personal presence of God. I have no difficulty in saying that I wholeheartedly accept Jesus as my personal Lord and Saviour.\nWard has criticised modern-day Christian fundamentalism, most notably in his 2004 book \"What the Bible Really Teaches: A Challenge for Fundamentalists\". He believes that fundamentalists interpret the Bible in implausible ways and pick and choose which of its passages to emphasise to fit pre-existing beliefs. He argues that the Bible must be taken \"seriously\" but not always \"literally\" and does not agree with the doctrine of Biblical inerrancy, saying that it is not found in the Bible, elaborating that\nThere may be discrepancies and errors in the sacred writings, but those truths that God wished to see included in the Scripture, and which are important to our salvation, are placed there without error ... the Bible is not inerrant in detail, but God has ensured that no substantial errors, which mislead us about the nature of salvation, are to be found in Scripture.\n\nWard is the author of many books including:\n\nBooks about Ward and his theology include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1841990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1841990", "title": "Kinder, Küche, Kirche", "text": "Kinder, Küche, Kirche\n\nKinder, Küche, Kirche (), or the 3 Ks, is a German slogan translated as “children, kitchen, church”. It now has a mostly derogatory connotation, describing what is seen as an antiquated female role model in contemporary Western society. The phrase is vaguely equivalent to the American \"barefoot and pregnant\" or the Victorian \"A woman's place is in the home\".\n\nThe origins of the phrase are normally attributed either to the last German Emperor Wilhelm II, or to his first wife, Empress Augusta Victoria. She is likely to have adopted it from one of several similar German \"sayings by number\". The most suggestive of these is listed in the second volume of \"German proverbs Glossary: A treasure house of the German people\" published in 1870 by Karl Friedrich Wilhelm Wander: \"Vier K gehören zu einem frommen Weib, nemlich, dass sie Achtung gebe auff die Kirche, Kammer, Kuche, Kinder.\" - \"Four K's are requisite of a pious woman, namely, that she keeps regard for church, chamber, kitchen, children.\" Wander refers for the origins of this saying to a 16th-century commentary on Sirach by Johannes Mathesius. He also lists another similar phrase: \"Eine gute Hausfrau hat fünf K zu besorgen: Kammer, Kinder, Küche, Keller, Kleider.\" - \"A good housewife has to take care of five K: chamber, kids, kitchen, cellar, clothes,\" which appeared first in the 1810 collection of the German proverbs \"Die weisheit auf der gasse: oder Sinn und geist deutscher sprichwörter\" - \"The wisdom of the streets; or, meaning and spirit of German proverbs\" by Johann Michael Sailer. In 1844 \"The newspaper for the German Nobility\" published this latter saying in its traditional last page \"feature\" short statements.\n\nThe phrase started to appear in its current form in writing in the early 1890s. \"After Germany, where women apparently take no interest in public affairs, and seem to obey to the letter the young emperor's injunction \"Let women devote themselves to the three K's, -- \"die Küche, die Kirche, die Kinder\"\" (kitchen, church, and children), the active interest and influence of English women on all great questions were refreshing.\" wrote Marie C. Remick in \"A Woman's Travel-notes on England\" in 1892. The phrase then was used multiple times throughout the 1890s in liberal writing and speeches.\n\nIn August 1899 the influential British liberal \"Westminster Gazette\" elaborated on the story, mentioning, as well, the 4th \"K\". A story titled \"The American Lady and the Kaiser. The Empress's four K's\" describes an audience given by the Kaiser to two American suffragettes. After hearing them out, the Kaiser replies: \"I agree with my wife. And do you know what she says? She says that women have no business interfering with anything outside the four K's. The four K's are – Kinder, Küche, Kirche, and Kleider: Children, Kitchen, Church, and Clothing\".\n\n\"Kaiser's 4 K's\" is encountered again in Charlotte Perkins Gilman's 1911 book \"The man-made world\". The \"3 K's\" variation has remained by far more popular and well known.\n\nWhen Hitler came to power in 1933, he introduced a Law for the Encouragement of Marriage, which entitled newly married couples to a loan of 1000 marks (around 9 months' average wages at that time). On their first child, they could keep 250 marks. On their second, they could keep another 250. They reclaimed all of the loan by their fourth child.\n\nIn a September 1934 speech to the National Socialist Women's Organization, Adolf Hitler argued that for the German woman her \"world is her husband, her family, her children, and her home\", a policy which was reinforced by the stress on \"Kinder\" and \"Küche\" in propaganda, and the bestowing of the Cross of Honor of the German Mother on women bearing four or more babies.\n\nDuring this period, women were discriminated against in employment and forced out or bribed with numerous social benefits. Medicine, the law and civil service were occupations reserved for men alone.\n\nIn one of his essays, T. S. Eliot reproduces and then comments upon a column in the \"Evening Standard\" of May 10, 1939 headed Back to the Kitchen' Creed Denounced\":\n\nDuring World War II in Germany, women eventually were put back in the factories because of the growing losses in the armed forces and the desperate lack of equipment on the front lines.\n\nThe phrase continued to be used in feminist and anti-feminist writing in the English-speaking world in the 1950s and 1960s. So, notably, the first version of the classic feminist paper by Naomi Weisstein \"Psychology Constructs the Female\" was titled \"Kinder, Küche, Kirche as Scientific Law: Psychology Constructs the Female\".\n\n"}
{"id": "31093490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31093490", "title": "Koedoe", "text": "Koedoe\n\nKoedoe, subtitled \"African Protected Area Conservation and Science\", is a peer-reviewed open access scientific journal covering biology, ecology, and biodiversity conservation in Africa. It was established in 1958. Koedoe is Afrikaans for Kudu.\n\nFor full information visit the journal website link http://koedoe.co.za/index.php/koedoe/pages/view/about#7\n"}
{"id": "3270889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3270889", "title": "Life and Labor Commune", "text": "Life and Labor Commune\n\nThe Life and Labor Commune was a Tolstoyan agricultural commune founded in 1921 and disbanded as a state run collective farm on January 1, 1939. The commune was founded near Moscow but was later resettled in central Siberia, not far from Novokuznetsk. At its peak, it reportedly had as many as 1,000 participants. Throughout its existence the members of the commune were persecuted by the Bolsheviks, both for refusing to enlist or support their war efforts as well as for organizing themselves communally outside of the approved state structure.\n\nThe Life and Labor Commune was founded on December 31, 1921 with a rental contract with the Moscow District Land Department for the Shestakóvka estate, twelve miles outside of Moscow. The commune was built on land in the Tsarítsyn district of the Moscow region and fell under the village soviet of Troparyovo. The commune was named \"Life and Labor\" after the Tolstoyan and anarchist leanings of its founding members. From the very beginning, all communal meals were strictly vegetarian.\n\nIn 1927 the commune began to come under attack along with the Tolstoy New Jerusalem Commune, which was liquidated by the Soviet government in 1929. Many of the members from there joined the Life and Labor Commune. Leading members of the commune came under legal prosecution by the government, which attempted to revoke their charter. They were defended in court by anarchist Peter Kropotkin, a member of the Public Defender's Office, as well as nephew of Kropotkin.\n\nVladimir Cherkov, who intervened on behalf of conscientious objectors to the Red Army with Lenin and had won them their freedom from impressment, suggested that the Life and Labor Commune resettle along with other followers of Tolstoy to form one large commune. On February 28, 1930 the All-Russian Central Executive Committee issued a decree by the Presidium of the Committee, Protocol 41, Paragraph 5, about \"the resettlement of Tolstoyan communes and cooperatives.\" After a scouting expedition in the spring of 1930, the location of Kuznetsk along the Tom River was chosen. On March 22, 1931, after selling the livestock and donating the farm to an outpatient psychiatric hospital, the inhabitants of the Life and Labor Commune set out for outskirts of Siberia.\n\nIn 1936, the leaders of the commune were arrested, followed by additional waves of arrests in 1937 and 1938. By January 1939, the few remaining women and children were consolidated into a Soviet collective farm. Many of the communards died in labor camps or were executed for refusing to serve in the military.\n\nAleksandr Solzhenitsyn wrote about the persecution of the commune:\nSeveral of the participants in the commune wrote memoirs of their experiences.\n\n"}
{"id": "18746669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18746669", "title": "Manuel Carpio", "text": "Manuel Carpio\n\nManuel Carpio was a relevant writer, theologian, philosopher and doctor of the nineteenth century, and former member of the Mexican Romanticism. Born in the city of Cosamaloapan de Carpio in the State of Veracruz, he died in Mexico City.\n\nHis poetry has been published twice in a collection entitled under the name of Poesías del Sr. Doctor Don Manuel Carpio (1860)\n\n"}
{"id": "53422449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53422449", "title": "Maria Rosa Antognazza", "text": "Maria Rosa Antognazza\n\nMaria Rosa Antognazza (born 1964) is a professor of philosophy at King's College London. She was the winner of the Pfizer Award in 2010. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "35798803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35798803", "title": "Martin Gardner bibliography", "text": "Martin Gardner bibliography\n\nIn a publishing career spanning 80 years (1930-2010), popular mathematics and science writer Martin Gardner (1914-2010) authored or edited over 100 books and countless articles, columns and reviews.\n\nAll Gardner's works were non-fiction except for two novels — \"The Flight of Peter Fromm\" (1973) and \"Visitors from Oz\" (1998) — and two collections of short pieces — \"The Magic Numbers of Dr. Matrix\" (1967, 1985) and \"The No-Sided Professor\" (1987).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThere are fifteen books altogether—what Don Knuth calls \"the Canon\"—that encompass Gardner's \"Mathematical Games\" columns (1956–1981) from \"Scientific American\":\n\nA more detailed list of editions can be found here. An extensive index, by Carl W. Lee, encompassing all 15 books can be found here.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4101113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4101113", "title": "Meaning (non-linguistic)", "text": "Meaning (non-linguistic)\n\nA non-linguistic meaning is an actual or possible derivation from sentience, which is not associated with signs that have any original or primary intent of communication. It is a general term of art used to capture a number of different senses of the word \"meaning\", independently from its linguistic uses.\n\nThe sense that sentient creatures have that the various objects of our universe are linked is commonly referred to as a person's sense of \"meaning\". This is the sense of meaning at work when asking a person when they leave a theater, \"What did that movie mean to you?\" In short, the word \"meaning\" can sometimes be used to describe the \"interpretations\" that people have of the world. Example: \"Chunks are pieces of information linked and bound by meaning. (Remembering details vs. getting an overall meaning) links individual memory traces together, to create conceptual chunks.\" (Dr. Barbara Oakley, A Mind for Numbers, p. 55).\n\nThe field of semantics is often understood as a branch of linguistics, but this is not strictly true. Basic or non-idealized meaning as a type of semantics is a branch of psychology and ethics and reflects the original use of the term \"meaning\" as understood early in the 20th century by Lady Welby after her daughter had translated the term \"semantics\" from French. On the other hand, meaning, in so far as it was later objectified by not considering particular situations and the real intentions of speakers and writers, examines the ways in which words, phrases, and sentences can seem to have meaning. Objectified semantics is contrasted with communication-focused semantics where understanding the intent and assumptions of particular speakers and writers is primary as in the idea that people mean and not words, sentences or propositions. An underlying difference is that where causes are identified with relations or laws then it is normal to objectify meaning and consider it a branch of linguistics, while if causes are identified with particular agents, objects, or forces as if to cause means to influence as most historians and practical people assume, then real or non-objectified meaning is primary and we are dealing with intent or purpose as an aspect of human psychology, especially since human intent can be and often is independent of language and linguistics.\n\nWe are all familiar with how good or bad reputation can encourage or discourage us from reading or studying about certain people, positions, or philosophies even before we have studied them. This is normally called pre-judgment or prejudice. To determine whether a reputation is deserved we normally have to carry out extensive and balanced research into human intent and assumptions in psychology, and in the sphere of language and linguistics where this research tends to focus not only on the differences between denotation and connotation, but especially on the presence and often tenacious character of value connotation, that is, the good or bad associations we make with words. Re-definition can change denotation for some people, but value connotation almost always remains, and is merely re-directed at a different target. Unfortunately, while dictionaries mention the most common denotations or main meanings we associate with words they normally ignore value connotation. Indeed, it is value connotation or the effect of using it which results in denotation becoming prejudicial, even denotation which is imagined to be fair, neutral or objective. Indeed, much rhetoric is based on selecting words more for their value associations than for their denotations, and to expose and correct this bad habit it is normally wise to focus on the most likely intent and assumptions of particular people than to imagine that words have meaning in themselves or that either meaning or language can be genuinely objective, since in that process we are likely to forget the existence and dominating character of value connotation which is subjective in a bad sense, that is, which makes persuasion more an aspect of rhetoric and deception rather than judging people, positions and philosophy more by weight of evidence or legitimate argumentation.\n\nOne way to operationally define the meaningfulness of a stimulus is to look at the slope of the response time versus response probability line (Tarnow, 2007).\n\nIn another sense, the word \"meaning\" can be used to describe the internal workings of the mind, independently of any linguistic activity. This sort of meaning is deeply psychological. If we look for other uses we can find intent, feeling, implication, importance, value, and signification. Since the negative form-- \"meaningless\"—challenges and would deny these uses, experts believe that underlying them all are understanding and understandability.\n\nOne approach to this way of understanding meaning was the psychosocial theorist Erik Erikson. Erikson had a certain perspective on the role of meaning in the process of human bodily development and socialization. Within his model, a \"meaning\" is the external source of gratification associated with the human erogenous zones and their respective modes. See imprinting (psychology) for some related topics.\n\nSome communication by body language arises out of bodily signals that follow directly out of human instinct. Blushing, tears, erections and the startle reaction are examples. This type of communication is usually unintentional, but nevertheless conveys certain information to anyone present.\n\nThis was coined by Paul Grice, and describes associations in the natural world, as in the sentence, \"Those clouds mean rain\", \"mean\" is associating cloud with rain.\n\nAnother example of natural meaning is the weathervane: when it points in a certain direction, that is taken to mean that the wind is blowing in the same direction.\n\nStill another perspective comes courtesy of the Pragmatists, who insist that the meaning of an expression lies in its consequences. Philosopher and polymath Charles Sanders Peirce wrote the following:\nOutside of the Pragmatic tradition was Canadian 20th century philosopher of media Marshall McLuhan. His famous dictum, \"the medium is the message\", can be understood to be a consequentialist theory of meaning. His idea was that the medium which is used to communicate carries with it information: namely, the consequences that arise from the fact that the medium has become popular. For example, one \"meaning\" of the light bulb might be the idea of being able to read during the night.\n\nThe controversial social psychologist and ethicist Thomas Szasz also seemed to hold this view, stating that \"a word means its consequences\" in debate.\n\nSome non-linguistic meaning emerges from natural history as a development over vast periods of time. This is the theory behind autopoiesis and self-organization. Some social scientists use autopoiesis as a model for the development of structural coupling in the family.\n\nA typical example of this kind of relationship is the predator-prey relationship. These relations carry strong intrinsic (life and death) meaning for all living organisms, including people.\n\nObservations of child development and of behavioral abnormalities in some people indicate that some innate capabilities of human beings are essential to the process of meaning creation. Two examples are:\n\n\nIdeasthesia refers to the capability of our minds to experience meaning. When concepts are activated i.e., when the meaning is extracted, the phenomenal experiences are affected. This tight relationship between meaning and experiences is investigated by research on ideasthesia.\n\n"}
{"id": "17627621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17627621", "title": "Merger doctrine (trust law)", "text": "Merger doctrine (trust law)\n\nIn the law of trusts the term \"doctrine of merger\" refers to the fusing of legal and equitable title in the event the same person becomes both the sole trustee and the sole beneficiary of a trust. In such a case, the trust is sometimes deemed to have terminated (with the result that the beneficiary owns the trust property outright).\n\n"}
{"id": "32113932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32113932", "title": "Micheál Ó Mordha", "text": "Micheál Ó Mordha\n\nMicheál Ó Mordha () (c.1639-1723) was an Irish priest, philosopher and educationalist.\n\nÓ Mordha – generally referred to as \"Moore\" or \"Moor\" in contemporary documents – was born in Dublin about 1639. He left Ireland at a young age to be educated in Nantes and Paris, where he taught philosophy and rhetoric at the Collège des Grassins. He was proposed for the position of rector at the University of Paris in June 1677 by a faction who wished to replace the then rector, Nicholas Pieres, but felt compelled to decline the offer.\n\nReturning to Ireland in the early 1680s, he was ordained in 1684. Archbishop of Dublin, Patrick Russell (1683–92) appointed him vicar-general of the Diocese of Dublin.\n\nUpon the flight of the provost of Trinity College, Dublin, in 1689, Ó Mordha became the college's first Catholic provost. He acquired the post via the influence of Richard Talbot, 1st Earl of Tyrconnell (1630–1691), to whom he was chaplain and confessor. The Catholic Encyclopedia states \"The college was seized by the Jacobites, the chapel was made a powder magazine, one portion of the building was turned into a barrack, and another into a gaol for persons suspected of disaffection to the royal cause. .. He {Ó Mordha} upheld the rights of the college, secured it from further pillage, and endeavoured to mitigate the treatment of the prisoners. With the librarian, Father McCarthy, he prevented the soldiery from burning the library, and by preserving its precious collections rendered an incalculable service to letters.\"\n\nHowever, a sermon which Ó Mordha delivered in Christ Church Cathedral concerning King James's ecclesiastical policies so offended the king that he was obliged to resign the post in 1690; after this, he returned to Paris. He moved to Rome in 1691 when King James arrived in Paris, after fleeing Dublin in the wake of the Jacobite defeat at the Battle of the Boyne.\n\nWhile in Rome, Ó Mordha became Censor of Books. He came to the attention and favour of the successive Popes, Innocent XII (1691–1700) and Clement XI (1700–1721). When Cardinal Barbarigo established his college at Montefiascone, he appointed Ó Mordha as rector and professor of philosophy and Greek. The college attracted men of learning, and received from Innocent XII an annual grant of two thousand crowns.\n\nAfter the death of James II in 1701, Ó Mordha returned to France, where – through Cardinal de Noailles – he was appointed Rector of the University of Paris. He remains the only Irishman to hold the post, serving from 10 October 1701 to 9 October 1702. He was also made principal of the Collège de Navarre, and professor of philosophy, Greek, and Hebrew in the Collège de France.\n\nIn 1702 he delivered the annual panegyric on Louis XIV. Ó Mordha joined Dr. Farrelly (Fealy) in purchasing a house near the Irish College for poor Irish students. Blind for some years he had to employ an amanuensis, who took advantage of his master's affliction to steal and sell many hundred volumes of his choice library. What remained, Ó Mordha bequeathed to the Irish College.\n\nHe died in the Collège de Navarre, and was buried in the vault under the chapel of the Irish College.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37476423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37476423", "title": "Mohammed Allal Sinaceur", "text": "Mohammed Allal Sinaceur\n\nMohammed Allal Sinaceur (born 1941) is a Moroccan philosopher, politician and writer. He was the Moroccan Minister for Cultural Affairs.\n\nSinaceur was born in eastern Morocco at Oujda in 1941. He is a member of a well connected Moroccan family. His brother Mohamed Habib Sinaceur, a politician, died in 2000. One of his brothers is a General and another, Jamal Eddine Sinaceur, is a diplomat. He was the Moroccan Minister for Cultural Affairs in 1994.\n\nHe writes on philosophy and Islamic issues for UNESCO and some of his works have been translated into over 30 languages. He is called to expert meetings on Education.\n\nHe has been writing since at least 1977.\n\nHis works include\n"}
{"id": "23401634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23401634", "title": "Norbert Bolz", "text": "Norbert Bolz\n\nNorbert Bolz (born April 17, 1953) is a German philosopher and media theorist. He is a professor at the Technical University of Berlin.\n\nBolz developed a media theory, the \"\", that is influenced by Friedrich Nietzsche, Walter Benjamin and Marshall McLuhan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14393232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14393232", "title": "OneTaste", "text": "OneTaste\n\nOneTaste is a business dedicated to researching and teaching the practices of \"orgasmic meditation\" and \"slow sex\". Though it embraces certain tenets based in Eastern philosophy, OneTaste's central focus is female orgasm and sexuality, especially in a practice called Orgasmic Meditation.\n\nOneTaste was cofounded in San Francisco by Robert Kandell and Nicole Daedone in 2001. OneTaste originally operated two communal-style \"urban retreat\" centers, one in San Francisco’s Soma District and the other on Manhattan’s Lower East Side, but has expanded to include Los Angeles, London, Melbourne, and six other U.S. cities. The organization's stated goal is \"to create a clean, well-lit place where sexuality, relationship, and intimacy could be discussed openly and honestly.\" OneTaste produces media, workshops, weekend retreats, and a coach training program.\n\nOneTaste has drawn international media attention and controversy; several journalists have compared OneTaste to a cult and pyramid scheme, while others have noted a push of orgasmic meditation into the mainstream. Reflecting this push into the mainstream, some journalists have called Orgasmic Meditation a new craze, while online estimates say OneTaste teaches 500 people each month in its \"How to\" classes. In 2014 OneTaste received Inc. 5000 Honors for Top Health companies.\n\nThe organization has often been criticized for its cult-like operations, secretive practices, and pyramid payment and leadership structure similar to groups such as Scientology and the Unification Church.\n\nOrgasmic meditation or \"OMing\" is a term coined by Nicole Daedone and Robert Kandell to signify a mindfulness practice in which the object of meditation is finger to genital contact. OMing is practiced in pairs, with one practitioner stroking the genitals of the other, and both focusing their attention on the sensation with the stated goal of developing connective resonance between them. Although the practitioners can be of either sex, the focus of orgasmic meditation seems to be on the female orgasm through subtle and deliberate stimulation of the clitoris. Both partners, however, are said to share in the sensation and fulfillment via a kind of \"pleasure by proxy.\" Proponents state that orgasmic meditation encompasses more than just orgasm and that it encourages greater emotional awareness, connected relationships, and sense of fulfillment. Others describe the sensation as \"a heady buzz, mixed with equal parts wooziness and intensity of focus.\"\n\nIn press accounts, orgasmic meditation has been compared to tantric practices. \"The idea, similar to Buddhist Tantric sex, is to extend the sensory peak.\" Daedone has stated in interviews that OMing also borrows from other traditions including yoga, and other forms of meditation, and she describes it as a central element of what she terms the \"Slow Sex Movement\". In fact, when asked where she first was exposed to this practice, she states that a \"Buddhist Monk\" introduced her to the practice. She states that OMing brings consciousness to sexuality in the same way that sitting meditation brings consciousness to stillness and yoga brings consciousness to movement. Proponents maintain that the practice leads to more intense and profound orgasms, expands one's capacity to feel pleasure and other sensations, and promotes greater personal awareness and interpersonal connectivity. Others describe more limited effects, such as simply \"getting in touch with one's body.\" Some who have participated in or witnessed the practice report feeling a sense of discomfort or inappropriateness. \"I tried with great futility to make the connection between an austere Zen monastery filled with silent monks meditating on emptiness, and what I had just seen.\"\n\nThe practice of orgasmic meditation is done with a partner. A woman lies down, unclothed from the waist down, while her fully clothed partner sits alongside. The one sitting uses his or her index finger to slowly, deliberately stroke the clitoris of the other. Typically this safe sex practice involves the wearing of gloves. The session is timed and lasts for exactly 15 minutes. Both partners are directed to focus their attention on the point of contact, or \"stroke.\" Practitioners of orgasmic meditation claim that the practice nourishes the limbic system, the part of the brain shared with other mammals and associated with emotion, empathy, and motivation. When the OMing session is over, both partners share their experiences verbally.\n\nDaedone states that the so-called \"resonance\" between two partners is essential to the experience of shared sensation. OM is usually practiced separately from sex and often in a location other than the bedroom; as distinct from foreplay, Daedone describes it as a practice \"designed to keep a woman on a plateau of sensation.\" A visiting UK columnist surmised that \"OM is a form of recalibration that prepares the body for better, more intense sex.\"\n\n\"The New York Times\" portrays Daedone as leading a self-described \"slow sex movement, one that places a near-exclusive emphasis on women’s pleasure — in which love, romance and even flirtation are not required.\" Daedone draws parallels between slow sex and the Slow Food movement associated with chef Alice Waters. With sex as with food, she says, people can overindulge without getting nourishment, or go from one extreme of consuming mindlessly to the other extreme of self-denial.\n\nIn an interview with San Francisco's \"7x7\" magazine, Daedone states that slow sex encompasses orgasmic meditation and mindful sexuality generally. She says that slow sex is not defined by speed or the amount of time spent, but rather these three ingredients: 1) developing attention to what's actually present rather than fixating on a goal, 2) simplicity, a stripping away of extraneous elements down to the level of pure sensation 3) cultivating desire by learning to acknowledge and articulate it.\n\nIn 2011, Daedone published \"Slow Sex: The Art and Craft of the Female Orgasm\", described as elevating \"the female orgasm to a level of religious and spiritual practice.\" A review in \"Salon.com\" explores whether these ideas and practices will appeal only to \"alternative circles\" or to a larger mainstream audience. \"Salon\" notes the demand for \"female Viagra,\" with an estimated market of $2 billion US, and numerous studies that document women's dissatisfaction with sex and low frequency of orgasm. The review concludes \"Daedone's philosophy is a refreshing counterpoint to the porny mainstream, but it's certainly hard to picture Middle America embracing orgasmic meditation.\"\n\nIn \"The Four Hour Body\", a New York Times Best Seller described as \"a lab report on more than a decade of diet, exercise, and sexual trials that Tim Ferriss carried out on himself,\" two chapters are devoted to \"The 15 Minute Female Orgasm\" in which Ferriss describes his quest to learn to facilitate the experience of orgasm in any woman.\n\nIn March 2009, \"The New York Times\" featured OneTaste on the front page of its \"Style\" section. The article describes the organization as \"the latest stop on this sexual underground, weaving together strands of radical individual freedom, Eastern spirituality and feminism.\" An Indiana University sociology professor who has studied San Francisco’s sexual subcultures, Elizabeth A. Armstrong, is quoted as saying “The notion of a San Francisco sex commune focused on female orgasm is part of a long and rich history of women being public and empowered about their sexuality.”\n\nThe article also notes, \"as with many a commune before it, the leader of One Taste, Ms. Daedone, is a polarizing personality, whom admirers venerate as a sex diva, although some former members say she has cult like powers over her followers... Much of the community’s tone revolves around Ms. Daedone, a woman of considerable charm, although detractors regard her as a master manipulator.\" In the \"New York Times\" interview, Ms. Daedone insists she does not aspire to guru status, while acknowledging that \"there’s a high potential for this to be a cult.\"\n\nThe \"New York Times\" article led to several blog and opinion columns. \"Salon.com\" ran an essay that referenced the \"Times\" piece and discussed the merits of women joining a community dedicated to female orgasm, concluding that \"within a mainstream sexual culture defined almost exclusively by dudely desires\" that it might be healthy.\n\nA number of press accounts have since offered different perspectives on the organization including a 2013 Gawker article, also referencing online cult accusations, which documented the reporter's experience at a weekend conference hosted by OneTaste. An article in \"GoodTimes Weekly\", 'The Big OM', refers to \"cult allegations\" by posters on Yelp.com, as did one on Vice and on Salon. A 2016 episode of the podcast Love + Radio is dedicated to the experience of a woman who had increasingly fraught relations with OneTaste. An article in The Cut stated that \"some cult experts have linked Daedone with Victor Baranco,\" the cult leader who ran Lafayette Morehouse, and also suggests that it may be a pyramid scheme. Similarly, an article in The Frisky described OneTaste as \"Landmark Forum for the clitoris.\" A Refinery 29 article cited the organization's \"potentially aggressive sales tactics.\"\n\n\"Playboy Magazine\" compared OneTaste to Scientology and Landmark Forum, saying it had a \"pyramidal pricing structure\"; a week-long training with Nicole Daedone had been advertised at $36,000. It said: \"All I can think about is how easy it is to start a cult. ... the way the volunteers serve the leaders, jumping at their every demand to \"get me water” and “move that stool”... the full-court sales pitch from the minute you walk in... I leave early and I’m furious\". The author implies she was gaslighted when she disagreed with the leaders. She writes that she was re-traumatized \"for weeks\" as memories of her past sexual trauma were triggered by a business promising female empowerment but \"people probably just want your money.\"\n\nThe book \"Sensation\" by Isabel Losada ends with a \"Warning\" about \"'hard sell' techniques... 'One Taste' (like many businesses) offer a wide range of courses which are outside the price range of most bank accounts. I'll say it again. Please don't spend money that you don't have.\"\n\nIn June 2018, \"Bloomberg Businessweek\" published an article chronicling recent training changes and that was critical of how the company treated its employees and consultants, often pressuring them to take expensive courses, programs, and retreats that drove them into debt.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1406382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1406382", "title": "Plum Village", "text": "Plum Village\n\nPlum Village (, ) is a Buddhist meditation center of the Order of Interbeing in the Dordogne, southern France. It was founded by two Vietnamese monastics, Thích Nhất Hạnh (a Zen master and Buddhist monk) and Chân Không (a Buddhist nun), in 1982.\n\nAfter being refused the right to return to Vietnam, Thích Nhất Hạnh formed a small mindfulness community 100 miles southeast of Paris at the village of Fontvannes called \"the Sweet Potato\" after the food that poor Vietnamese people eat. Following Thích Nhất Hạnh's expulsion from Singapore following illegal attempts to rescue Vietnamese boat people, he settled in France and began to lead mindfulness retreats.\n\nIn 1981, the Sweet Potato community held its first summer retreat, which attracted more people than it could accommodate. Thích Nhất Hạnh then traveled south with Chân Không to find a larger site. They found a piece of land in Thénac, Dordogne, which seemed ideal. The landowner, Mr. Dézon, didn't want to sell, so they continued looking. A few days later, on September 28, 1982, Thích Nhất Hạnh purchased a tract of land about away, which is now known as the Lower Hamlet (). Later that year, a hailstorm destroyed the vineyards on Mr. Dézon's property and he was forced to put his land on the market. Nhất Hạnh bought the land and called it Upper Hamlet (). Initially, these two hamlets were named Persimmon Village (), but it soon became clear that plums fared much better on the rocky soil, so it became Plum Village ().\n\nEach year the community hosts a four-week Summer Opening retreat, which has grown increasingly popular in recent years. Attendance has grown from 232 people in total in 1983 to over 800 guests at a time in 2015. In addition, the community hosts a variety of retreats year round, such as the Wake Up Retreat for young adults, the 21-Day Retreat for more experienced laypeople, and the 90-day Winter (Rains) Retreat.\n\nThe following is the schedule for an average day at Plum Village (Làng Mai):\n\nToday, Plum Village is made up of four major residential hamlets. Upper Hamlet houses approximately 65 monks and laymen, as well as being Thích Nhất Hạnh's residence. Lower Hamlet houses over 40 nuns and laywomen. Son Ha Temple houses approximately 20 monks and the New Hamlet, 20 minutes away by bus, houses approximately 40 nuns and laywomen. Non-residential hamlets include Middle Hamlet and West Hamlet, which are used as expansion housing for lay guests during the Summer Opening retreat.\n\nPlum Village has one sister monastery in Europe, the European Institute of Applied Buddhism (EIAB) in Waldbröl, Germany, and three in the United States: Blue Cliff Monastery in Pine Bush, New York, Deer Park Monastery (Tu Viện Lộc Uyển) in Escondido, California, and Magnolia Grove Monastery in Batesville, Mississippi.\n\nThere are also branches in Thailand and Hong Kong.\n\n"}
{"id": "11396381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11396381", "title": "Rogerian argument", "text": "Rogerian argument\n\nRogerian argument (or \"Rogerian Reasoning\") is a conflict-solving technique based on seeking common ground instead of polarizing debate. According to English professor James Baumlin,\nThe writings of American psychotherapist Carl R. Rogers inspired rhetoricians to formulate principles of communication based on empathizing with the views of others and seeking common ground. The rhetoricians proposed trying to understand the adversary's beliefs and emotions, by listening to them, instead of adopting a point of view without considering those factors.\n\nSome rhetoricians have portrayed this form of argumentation as the opposite of Aristotelian argumentation, which they portrayed as an adversarial form of debate, because Rogerian argument attempts to find mutual understanding and compromise between two sides.\n\nRogerian argument can be useful in emotionally charged topics since it defuses emotional reasoning and highlights rational arguments.\n\nYoung, Becker and Pike identified four stages:\n\n"}
{"id": "33422143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33422143", "title": "Rudolf Burger", "text": "Rudolf Burger\n\nRudolf Burger (born December 8, 1938 in Vienna) is an Austrian philosopher.\n\nBurger was born in the year of the occupation and the annexation of Austria into Nazi Germany, called Anschluss. His parents were active communists. He concluded his studies of physics at the Technical University in Vienna and thereafter served as an assistant at the \"Institute of Applied Physics\", where he concluded his doctorate in 1965.\n\nAfter working at the Ludwig Boltzmann Institute for Condensed Matter Physics in Vienna, Burger switched to the Battelle Institute in Frankfurt. There he was part of the team for research plannings. He also joined the Planning Commission of Germanys Federal Ministry of Education and Research in Bonn.\n\nFrom 1973 to 1990 Burger headed the department for research in humanities and social sciences at the Austrian \"Ministry of Science\". In 1979 Burger achieved his habilitation in sociology of scientific knowledge, in 1987 he became a professor at the University of Applied Arts in Vienna, where he was appointed to the chair for philosophy in 1991. From 1995 to 1999 Burger served as rector of this university. In 2007 he retired.\n\nSince the 1980s Burger initiated or participated in several intellectual and political discussions in Austria. His essays are published in the daily newspaper Die Presse, in the weekly profil, as well as in intellectual magazines like FORVM, Leviathan or Merkur.\n\nBurger is well appreciated for his elegant style as an essayist and his avid love for intellectual criticism. His cynicism stirred some controversies, starting in 1990, when he opened the Günther Anders symposium of the city of Vienna by speaking of \"moralistic extortion\", comparing Anders and Heidegger, equating their philosophies, and finally stating:\n\nPhilosopher Konrad Paul Liessmann defended \"Anders\" and responded: \"[...] therefore the circumstances are dancing; but where is the rose?\". In 1992 Burger both criticised Austria's foreign policy at the balkans as \"warmonger\" (in German: kriegsgeil) and at the same time requested to let the parties of the war exsanguinate. These comments caused a nationwide controversy. In 2000 Burger criticised the \"Thursday Demonstrations\" against the Schüssel/Haider coalition as an \"antifascist carnival\" and again unchained a national debate. Finally, in 2001 he angered a lot of critical intellectuals with his request to forget and close the debates on guilt and remembrance. Historian Heribert Schiedel therefore named him \"the black and blue court philosopher,\" black referring to ÖVP, blue to FPÖ.\n\n"}
{"id": "7890739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7890739", "title": "Rıza Tevfik Bölükbaşı", "text": "Rıza Tevfik Bölükbaşı\n\nRıza Tevfik Bey (Rıza Tevfik Bölükbaşı after the Turkish Surname Law of 1934; 1869 – 31 December 1949) was a Turkish philosopher, poet, politician of liberal signature and a community leader (for some members among the Bektashi community) of the late-19th-century and early-20th-century. A polyglot, he is most remembered in Turkey for being one of the four Ottoman signatories of the disastrous Treaty of Sèvres, for which reason he was included in 1923 among the 150 of Turkey, and he spent 20 years in exile until he was given amnesty by Turkey in 1943.\n\nRıza Tevfik was born in 1869 in , today Svilengrad in Bulgaria, to an Albanian father originally from Debar and Çerkeş mother, who died when he was young. He had a brother, Besim, who would later commit suicide in Edirne. Placed in a Jewish school in Constantinople by his father, who was a prefect, Rıza Tevfik learned Spanish and French at an early age. He was remarked as a restless personality during his student years, first in the famed Galatasaray High School, and then in the Imperial School of Medicine (), and he was arrested and incarcerated several times, not falling short of inciting fellow inmates to revolt during his prison months. He could graduate at the age thirty and became a doctor. In 1907, he joined the Committee of Union and Progress (CUP), and was one of that party's deputies for Edirne in the Chamber of Deputies (the popularly elected lower house of the re-established Ottoman Parliament) of 1908. He split with the CUP in 1911, joining for a short while the newly founded opposition Freedom and Accord Party (Liberal Entente), and was vehemently opposed to its entry of the Ottoman Empire into World War I.\n\nRıza Tevfik was named the Minister of Education of the Ottoman Empire () in several cabinets (11 November 1918 – 12 January 1919) formed after the fall of the CUP and the Ottoman Empire's defeat in World War I. He was also appointed to the Senate (the upper house of the Ottoman Parliament) by the sultan, of which he became President twice (24 May – 18 June 1919 and 31 July – 21 October 1920).\n\nHe was one of the four signatories of the stillborn Treaty of Sèvres, being included in the delegation to the Paris Peace Conference by the grand vizier Damat Ferid Pasha, although he occupied no official position at the time of the negotiations, simply being a professor in Istanbul University. Since he was one of the signatories of the abortive treaty, he was included in the 150 persona non grata of Turkey after the Turkish victory in the Turkish War of Independence, and he had to leave Turkey in late 1922.\n\nRıza Tevfik lived in the United States, Cyprus, Hejaz, Jordan (where he was made the director of the National Museum and Library in 1925), and Lebanon during the following 20 years, until he could return to Turkey in the frame of a 1943 amnesty. He adopted the last name Bölükbaşı after the 1934 Surname Law. In the meantime, he had had his collection of poetry published in Nicosia.\n\nHe resumed work as a university professor in Istanbul until his death on 31 December 1949. Aside from his poetry and his articles on philosophy, he is also notable for his translations into Turkish for most of the poems of Omar Khayyam.\n\n"}
{"id": "17215250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17215250", "title": "Sahaj Marg", "text": "Sahaj Marg\n\nSahaj Marg (\"The Natural Path\"), a form of Raja Yoga, is a heart-based meditation system. The essential features of Sahaj Marg are Meditation, Cleaning and Prayer. The cleaning of impressions (called samskaras) is claimed to be unique to this method. Meditation is on the supposition of divine light in one's heart. It is done for one hour every morning. Cleaning is done to remove the accumulated grossness in oneself. \n\nThe daily practice includes:\n\nWeekly practices include the following:\n\nThe organizational body, Shri Ram Chandra Mission (SRCM), was formally registered in 1945 by Shri Ram Chandra of Shahjahanpur. Shri Ram Chandra was born on April 30, 1899 in Shahjahanpur, in a large town in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh, India and attained mahāsamādhi on April 19, 1983, at the age of 83. As part of the Sahaj Marg spiritual practice, Babuji adopted a technique taught by his spiritual master Lalaji using pranahuti.\n\n"}
{"id": "23597330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23597330", "title": "Samuel Maximilian Rieser", "text": "Samuel Maximilian Rieser\n\nSamuel Maximilian (Max) Rieser (1893–1981) was an Austrian-born American lawyer and philosopher.\n\nBorn in Kraków, where he went to school, he began the study of law in Vienna. His studies were interrupted by World War I, during which he lived in Switzerland. After the war he returned to Vienna, completed his law studies and obtained a position at an insurance company. In 1938 he opened a private law practice. Among his clients was Reinhold Hanisch, a childhood friend of Adolf Hitler. Rieser immigrated to the United States in 1939. Here he earned his living by writing under different pseudonyms for the New Yorker Staatszeitung. After World War II he worked for different European newsletters and as a translator for an immigrant service organization. Although he had never studied philosophy, he authored a series of essays, reviews and monographs, which appeared in different American philosophical journals. Among other things, he argued for a version of the Christ myth theory, the view that Jesus never existed.\n\nRieser is occasionally remembered for his book, \"The True Founder of Christianity and the Hellenistic Philosophy\", published in 1979. Here he argues that Christianity was a product of the Hellenistic urban world. Christianity, retroactively set in pre-70 Galilee and Jerusalem, arrived last, not first, in Palestine. It is for this reason that very ancient Christian artifacts are typically found in Rome, but not in Israel. Jesus, the Apostles, and Paul are seen as entirely fictional. The central importance of sacred meals in mystery religions is acknowledged.\n\n"}
{"id": "1363172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1363172", "title": "San Francisco Zen Center", "text": "San Francisco Zen Center\n\nSan Francisco Zen Center (SFZC), is a network of affiliated Sōtō Zen practice and retreat centers in the San Francisco Bay area, comprising City Center or Beginner's Mind Temple, Tassajara Zen Mountain Center, and Green Gulch Farm Zen Center. The sangha was incorporated by Shunryu Suzuki Roshi and a group of his American students in 1962. Today SFZC is the largest Sōtō organization in the West.\n\nOn May 23, 1959, Shunryu Suzuki (then age 55) came from Japan to San Francisco to serve as head priest of Sokoji—a Soto Zen temple then located at 1881 Bush Street in Japantown. He was joined by his wife Mitsu (also from Japan) in 1961. Sokoji—founded by Hosen Isobe in 1934—had been housed in a former Jewish synagogue that is now Kokoro Assisted Living. Upon Suzuki’s arrival at Sokoji, the congregation was composed entirely of members of the Japanese-American population. Unlike his predecessors, Suzuki was a fluent speaker of English who actually wanted to come to the United States. Suzuki's arrival came at the tail end of the Beat movement and just prior to the social movements of the 1960s, both of which had major roots in San Francisco. Before long, Sokoji had non-Japanese Americans — mostly beatniks— coming to the temple to sit zazen with him in the morning. Soon these Westerners participated in regular services, and new non-Asian students came to outnumber the Japanese-American congregation. This change in demography caused a rift in the Sokoji community. The tension was alleviated when Suzuki’s Western students began gathering for separate services, albeit still at Sokoji, in 1961. Some of these students began calling their group City Center, and they incorporated in 1962 as the San Francisco Zen Center.\n\nThe number of practitioners at SFZC grew rapidly in the mid-sixties. Within a couple of years, Suzuki considered founding a monastery to host more intensive practice for those students who were interested. In 1966, Suzuki and Baker scouted Tassajara Hot Springs, located in Los Padres National Forest behind Big Sur, as a possible location for the envisioned monastic center. After a major fundraising effort led by Baker, Zen Center purchased the land—which contained a rundown resort and mineral springs in 1967. Tassajara Zen Mountain Center (\"Zen Mind Temple\" or \"Zenshinji\") was the first Zen Buddhist monastery built in the United States, and the first in the world to allow co-ed practice.\n\n1967 also saw the arrival of Kobun Chino Otogawa of Eiheiji, who served as assistant to Suzuki. Kobun was resident teacher at the Tassajara Zen Mountain Center until 1970. Around 1970, he began sitting regularly with a group in Santa Cruz that went on to form the Santa Cruz Zen Center. In 1971, he became resident priest at Haiku Zen Center, a practice center in Los Altos where Suzuki-roshi had been giving lectures, and soon after the sangha there grew and changed its name to Bodhi. He served as Abbot there until 1978, moving the group to Jikoji in Los Gatos, California in 1979.\nAnother assistant priest at SFZC was Dainin Katagiri-roshi, who served there from 1969 to 1971. Katagiri would go on to establish his own practice center—the Minnesota Zen Center—in 1972 in Minneapolis.\nIn 1969, Sokoji's board of directors asked Suzuki to resign his position as the temple's priest, asserting that he was spending more time with his Western students than the Japanese-American congregation. Months later Suzuki—with the help of his American students—purchased the current (and larger) City Center building, located on 300 Page Street.\n\nIn 1970, Suzuki gave Dharma transmission to Richard Baker, his only American Dharma Heir and chosen successor at SFZC. Suzuki planned to give transmission to Bill Kwong but died before his completion. Kwong's transmission was later completed by Suzuki's son, Hoitsu.\n\nSuzuki died of cancer on December 4, 1971. He was 67 years old. Despite having only had 12 years in the United States, Suzuki had gone a long way toward establishing Soto Zen in America. His death came shortly after the publication of \"Zen Mind, Beginner's Mind\", a collection of lectures translated into numerous languages considered a classic of contemporary Zen literature.\nSuzuki had asked Baker to locate a farm in the area for entire families to live a Buddhist life while working together. Green Gulch Farm (\"Green Dragon Temple\", or \"Soryuji\"), located in Sausalito, California in a valley on the Pacific Ocean, was acquired by SFZC in 1972. The land was purchased from one of the founders of Polaroid, George Wheelwright. Despite hesitance of some members of SFZC due to the size of , Baker felt that acquiring Green Gulch Farm was very important for Buddhism in America. Members soon raised funds for a zendo to be built there, and over time the farm transformed into a monastery and retreat center for residents and guests with an organic farm, flower gardens, a teahouse and a plant nursery.\nIn 1976, SFZC purchased the Gallo Pastry Company to found the Tassajara Bakery, which became popular before being sold to the company Just Desserts in 1992. The bakery was closed altogether in 1999. Tassajara Bakery was a Zen Center venture promoted by Richard Baker as an extension of the baking practices at Tassajara Zen Mountain Center. Tassajara baked bread for student and guest consumption since 1967, and Edward Espe Brown's \"Tassajara Bread Book\", demonstrated consumer interest. The bakery supplied Greens Restaurant and some local grocers.\n\nGreens Restaurant, opened in 1979 in Fort Mason of San Francisco, was another business venture by SFZC under the influence of Baker. A pioneer of gourmet vegetarian cuisine in America, the restaurant's first chefs were Edward Espe Brown and Deborah Madison. The duo published a book of recipes in 1987 titled \"The Greens Cookbook\". Throughout the 1980s Greens, which obtained produce from Green Gulch Farm, was one of the most popular restaurants in San Francisco.\n\nThe center received significant media coverage concerning the 1984 resignation of then abbot Zentatsu Richard Baker, who was ousted after it was alleged that he had been having an affair with the wife of a prominent Zen Center member. In the wake of Baker's resignation, SFZC transitioned to a democratically elected leadership model until in 2010 there was a new introduction of a predesignated slated of board members.\n\nAdditional businesses run by SFZC were the Alaya Stitchery storefront, which made zafus, zabutons and clothing, and Green Gulch Grocery, which sold produce from Green Gulch Farm. Neither business is today operative.\n\nIn 2000 Jiko Linda Cutts was appointed Abbess, having received Dharma transmission from Tenshin Reb Anderson in 1996. In 2003 Paul Haller, who received transmission from Sojun Mel Weitsman in 1993, was installed as co-abbot with her. In 1987 SFZC started the Zen Hospice Project, a volunteer hospice program run out of a guest house on Page Street with five residential beds. Zen Hospice Project also continues to train and coordinate volunteers who provide non sectarian, non-medical care to residents of the hospice and palliative care ward at Laguna Honda Hospital, a skilled nursing facility operated by the City and County of San Francisco. The volunteer project's founding director was Frank Ostaseski, who served until 2004. Zen Hospice Project provides hospice care for individuals of any or no religion who are looking for a compassionate end to their life. Today SFZC is the largest Soto organization with a foothold in the West.\n\nLocated atop a bumpy road which is difficult for some vehicles to climb, Tassajara offers shuttles to and from the retreat for those inclined to forgo trying to make the trek on their own. Visitors can enjoy the springs, go swimming or on hiking trips, and have the opportunity to arrange for practice with the community living at the monastery for a few days. The monastery is closed to outsiders from the months of September through April, then opens to the public by reservation from May through August - offering retreats, seminars, and workshops. Students that come to practice at the monastery from September through April must undergo the tradition known as tangaryo. They will sit for five days or longer in the zendo before they are formally admitted into the monastery—a physically daunting challenge.\n\nThe organic farm at Green Gulch supplies local restaurants and food suppliers and sells flowers, produce and herbs at Ferry Plaza Farmers Market in San Francisco. Guests stay at the Lindisfarne Guest House, a traditional Japanese building with a wood-burning stove as the heating source. Zen practice is not required to stay at Green Gulch, though guests are welcome to participate in zazen or any other activities. Tenshin Reb Anderson-roshi, former abbot of City Zen Center, is senior Dharma teacher at Green Gulch——training priests and laypeople, leading sesshins, giving talks and conducting workshops while also living onsite.\n\nIn March 1983 Baker was accused of engaging in a sexual relationship with the wife of an influential sangha member. Although Baker claimed that his relationship was a love-affair which had not yet been consummated, the outcry surrounding the incident led to accusations of impropriety, including the admissions by several female members of the community that they had had affairs with Baker before or during his tenure as abbot. The community's sense of crisis sharpened when the woman's husband, one of SFZC's primary benefactors, threatened to hold the organization legally responsible for its abbot's apparent misconduct.\n\nThese revelations led Baker to resign as abbot in 1984. San Francisco Zen Center's web site now comments: \"Although the circumstances leading to his resignation as abbot in 1984 were difficult and complex, in recent years, there has been increased contact; a renewal of friendship and dharma relations.\"\n\nIn the 1980s Baker ordained Issan Dorsey as a priest. This was likely prompted by a conversation between Robert Baker Aitken and Baker at San Francisco Zen Center concerning the question of Zen's availability to interested gays, for Dorsey went on to become abbot of the Hartford Street Zen Center.\n\nFollowing Baker's resignation, Dainin Katagiri led the community until 1985. When Katagiri left, Tenshin Reb Anderson assumed Abbotship of the Zen Center—serving until 1995. In the early 1990s the Board of Directors at the Zen Center created the \"Ethical Principles and Procedures for Grievance and Reconciliation\" for its members, for conflict resolution mediation guided by Buddhist precepts. The Board of Directors at SFZC also began election of leaders. In 1995 Zoketsu Norman Fischer was installed as Abbot at SFZC, and in 1996 Zenkai Blanche Hartman was appointed as co-Abbot with him (becoming the first female Abbot in SFZC history).\n\nIn 1983 Tenshin Reb Anderson received shihō from Zentatsu Richard Baker, becoming Baker's first Dharma heir (though Baker disputes this). From 1986 to 1988 he served as abbot of the San Francisco Zen Center, and from 1988 to 1995 he served there as co-abbot with Sojun Mel Weitsman. Anderson became entangled in an incident in 1987 that reached back to 1983— just after Zentatsu Richard Baker had resigned as abbot. While jogging through Golden Gate Park, Anderson deviated from the path to urinate in some bushes. There he found the corpse of a man with a bullet wound to the head and a revolver nearby. Rather than report this to the police, Anderson returned to the body over several days to meditate over the corpse. On one visit he decided to take the revolver home with him. Upon his final visit he found the body no longer there, and a fellow priest in whom he had confided showed him a newspaper article covering the apparent suicide. Five years later (in 1988), roughly fifteen months after Anderson had become abbot of the San Francisco, Anderson was arrested for brandishing this same firearm in public. He reported being mugged at knifepoint by a man just a block away from the San Francisco Zen Center at 300 Page Street. Anderson remembered stowing the revolver away in the San Francisco Zen Center's garage and quickly retrieved it. He then drove after the alleged mugger and followed him into a housing project with the revolver (unloaded) in hand, being arrested minutes later by a police officer with his own gun pointed at him.\n\nThis 1987 incident has had a damaging impact on Anderson's reputation as a teacher, since his arrest received national media coverage. The leadership of San Francisco Zen Center required Anderson to take a leave of absence from his position as abbot. After six months, he returned to his position. Shocked by the series of scandal involving its senior teachers, the organization decided to appoint two abbots, who would share the position at any one time. Zen priest Mel Weitsman served with Anderson as a co-abbot during the remainder of his term, and the tradition of two sitting Abbots continued for the next few decades.\n\nRegarding this ordeal, Anderson wrote:\n\n\"On both a personal and a professional level, I am still dealing with the consequences of this episode. Some people felt that I had committed an irrevocable betrayal of trust, and have discounted me and my teaching ever since. Others were more forgiving, but their trust in me and my integrity was permanently shaken. Even newer students, who come to Zen Center and find out about these incidents, are sometimes confused and question whether I can be their teacher. These events are a helpful reminder—both to me and to others—of my vulnerability to arrogance and inflation. I see how my empowerment to protect and care for the Triple Treasure inflated my sense of personal authority, and thus detracted from and disparaged the Triple Treasure. This ancient twisted karma I now fully avow.\"\n\nSFZC is connected, in an unofficial capacity, to the following Zen Centers:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18408769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18408769", "title": "Scientific Perspectives on Divine Action", "text": "Scientific Perspectives on Divine Action\n\nScientific Perspectives on Divine Action is a five volume set that represents more than a decade of scientific-theological conferences sponsored by the Vatican Observatory and the Center for Theology and the Natural Sciences.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9871104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9871104", "title": "Sharon Beder", "text": "Sharon Beder\n\nSharon Beder is an honorary professor in the Faculty of Arts at the University of Wollongong in New South Wales, Australia. Her research has focused on how power relationships are maintained and challenged, particularly by corporations and professions. She has written 10 books, and many articles, book chapters and conference papers, as well as designing teaching resources and educational websites.\n\nBeder initially trained and worked as a civil engineer before becoming interested in the social, political and philosophical aspects of engineering and then environmental politics. She completed a PhD in Science and Technology Studies at the University of NSW in 1989 based on research into the process of engineering decision-making using a case study on the development of Sydney's sewerage system.\n\nBefore joining the University of Wollongong in 1992, Beder was Environmental Education Co-ordinator at the University of Sydney. She has also been Chairperson of the Environmental Engineering Branch of the Institution of Engineers, Sydney, President of the Society for Social Responsibility in Engineering, and a director of the Earth Foundation Australia.\n\nBeder was included in a list of \"Australia's most influential engineers\", published by \"Engineers Australia\" in 2004. She was also included in \"Bulletin Magazine's\" \"Smart 100\" in 2003. Awards received include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2908997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2908997", "title": "Shunsuke Tsurumi", "text": "Shunsuke Tsurumi\n\nAfter graduating from Harvard University, an A.B., Honors Harvard University in 1942, he was deported on a personnel exchange vessel with his sister Tsurumi Kazuko, Takeda Kiyoko, and Maruyama Masao. Tsurumi taught at Kyoto University. \n\nIn 1946, he started the magazine \"Shiso-no Kagaku\" (\"Science of Thought\") with six other people including those who were onboard the same deportation vessel with him Takeda, Maruyama and his sister Kazuko. He was a member of the anti-Vietnam War group Beheiren.\n\"Shiso no kagaku\" was among numerous magazines popped up post-war period, when common people wanted to express themselves. It was unique as it accepted essays from anybody with no discrimination on the authors' academic or sociological background, not limited to politically active students, and printed those on their pages written by nurses, teachers, or social workers for poor factory areas in Tokyo. Tsutsumi was the chief editor of \"Shiso no kagaku\", which editors freely discussed on their theme and selection of articles for each issue.\n\nHe was one of the first students of Willard Van Orman Quine. He died on July 20, 2015 of pneumonia in Kyoto, Japan.\nAlso thought as a literature and philosophy historian, he wrote several books and articles:\n\n"}
{"id": "37244327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37244327", "title": "Simon Somerville Laurie", "text": "Simon Somerville Laurie\n\nProf Simon Somerville Laurie FRSE LLD (13 November, 1829 – 2 March, 1909) was a Scottish educator. He became Bell Professor of Education at Edinburgh University in 1876. He campaigned energetically and successfully for better teacher training in Scotland.\n\nLaurie also wrote extensively on philosophy, giving the Gifford Lectures in 1905–6.\n\nLaurie was born on 13 November 1829 in Edinburgh, the eldest son of Rev James Laurie or Lawrie and his wife Jean Somerville. His father was a Presbyterian minister and chaplain to the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh. His mother was the daughter of a United Presbyterian church minister at Elgin, Simon Somerville. They lived near the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary at 112 Lauriston Place.\n\nLaurie was educated at Edinburgh High School from 1839 to 1844. To help pay his own school fees, he was already teaching at age 11. He studied Arts at the University of Edinburgh, where he graduated MA at then normal age of 19 in 1849. He then travelled for 5 years in England, Ireland and Europe, with private students.\n\nIn 1855 he became secretary and visitor of schools for the Church of Scotland's education committee, which was then responsible for Scottish parish schools and for teacher training. Laurie held this role for 50 years, in which time he greatly improved the education of teachers in Scotland. He vigorously campaigned to have all teachers educated at university, with the teacher training colleges providing professional training only after that. It took until 1873 for the Scottish board of education to give the training colleges the right to send their best students, at least, to universities to gain full degrees. Laurie went further, campaigning to have day training colleges set up in England, and in 1890 he succeeded in this also, personally inaugurating the teacher training department of University College, Liverpool.\n\nIn 1856 he became visitor and examiner for the Dick Bequest Trust. The trust distributed money to the best school teachers in northeast Scotland (Aberdeen, Banff, and Moray counties) according to Laurie's published reports.\n\nIn 1868, the Merchant Company of Edinburgh and the Heriot Trust both invited Laurie to inspect their Edinburgh schools. The Merchant Company's schools were known as \"hospitals\" and were run in monastic style. His report was critical of these schools, observing that while a larger amount was spent on them than all the parish schools of Scotland, they were not providing adequate moral and intellectual education. Laurie recommended sending the boys to his alma mater, the Edinburgh High School, while a new high school should be opened for day girls. His recommendations were embodied in an 1869 Act of Parliament which abolished the monastic and alms-giving nature of the former \"hospitals\".\n\nIn 1872, Laurie was appointed secretary to the royal commission on Scottish endowed schools. His reports for the commission led to the reorganisation of secondary schooling under Lord Moncrieff (1878) and Lord Balfour (1882–1889).\n\nIn 1876, Laurie became the first Bell Professor of Education at the University of Edinburgh. In his first year there, he had 12 students; the number rose to 120 by the end of his tenure in 1903. He used the position to improve pedagogy in the whole of Britain, not only in Scotland.\n\nAlso in 1876, he became honorary secretary of the Association for Promoting Secondary Education in Scotland, a voluntary campaigning organisation. It was dissolved in 1880 when it achieved its goal with the passing of the Endowed Institutions (Scotland) Act 1878.\n\nIn 1891, as president of the Teachers' Guild of Great Britain and Ireland, Laurie gave evidence before a select parliamentary committee, arguing for the registration and organisation of all state school teachers to improve the quality of teaching. At the same time, he was strongly opposed to centralised bureaucratic control by the board of education, favouring freedom for local education authorities.\n\nHe wrote widely on education and on philosophical topics. Josipa Petrunic describes his philosophical writings as \"often nebulous and obscure\", in contrast to his more practical work on education.\n\nLaurie resigned his chair in 1903, and retired from his work with the Dick Bequest in 1907.\nIn 1905–6, he gave the Gifford Lectures in natural theology, in Edinburgh. He wrote up the lectures in \"Synthetica\" (1905–06), which \"gave Laurie high rank among speculative writers\". The French philosopher Georges Remacle translated and commented on \"Synthetica\".\n\nOn his retirement, Laurie's admirers presented him with the portrait oil painting by George Fiddes Watt (see illustration). The painting is now in the University of Edinburgh Fine Art Collection.\n\nLaurie was given honorary LL.D. degrees by the University of St Andrews in 1887, the University of Edinburgh in 1903, and the University of Aberdeen in 1906. He was a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh.\n\nLaurie married Catherine Ann Hibburd in 1861; they had 4 children together, including the chemist Arthur Pillans Laurie (1861–1949) and the zoologist Malcolm Laurie (1866–1932), both of whom were elected Fellows of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. His sister, Mary Struthers Laurie, married Sir David Orme Masson.\n\nCatherine died in 1895. Laurie then married Lucy Struthers, the daughter of Sir John Struthers, in 1901.\n\nHe died on 2 March 1909 at his house 22 George Square, Edinburgh. He is buried in the Grange Cemetery in Edinburgh. The grave lies in the western extension against the southern wall, close to the south-west corner.\n\n\n\n\n\"This article incorporates edited text from the copyright-free 1912 Supplement to the Dictionary of National Biography, as referenced in the article.\"\n"}
{"id": "53736440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53736440", "title": "Solomon Gonikman", "text": "Solomon Gonikman\n\nSolomon Lvovitch Gonikman (; 1897–1979) was a Russian philosopher.\n\nGonikman, a menshevik-internationalist in 1917, joined the bolshevik party in 1919. From 1923 to 1924 he supported the Left Opposition. Gonikman became director of the Leningrad branch of the Institute of Red Professors. During the Stalinst purges he was expelled from the party on 16 February 1935 and arrested on 7 April 1936. Sentenced to 5 years in the camps. After the war rearrested, he was freed in 1953 and rehabilitated on 18 August 1956.\n\n"}
{"id": "1790730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1790730", "title": "Syntactic Structures", "text": "Syntactic Structures\n\nSyntactic Structures is a major work in linguistics by American linguist Noam Chomsky. It was first published in 1957. It introduced the idea of transformational generative grammar. This approach to syntax (the study of sentence structures) was fully formal (based on symbols and rules). At its base, this method uses phrase structure rules. These rules break down sentences into smaller parts. Chomsky then combines these with a new kind of rules called \"transformations\". This procedure gives rise to different sentence structures. Using this limited set of rules, Chomsky aimed to \"generate\" all and only the grammatical sentences of a given language, which are unlimited in number.\n\n\"Syntactic Structures\" is Chomsky's first book. It is a short monograph of about a hundred pages, written for specialists in linguistics. Chomsky based it on the lecture notes he had prepared for his students at MIT. In it, he mentioned the now-famous sentence \"Colorless green ideas sleep furiously.\" Even though this sentence has no clear meaning, grammar-wise it still seems instinctively correct to a native English speaker. For Chomsky, the study of syntax is thus independent of semantics (the study of meaning).\n\nChomsky wrote \"Syntactic Structures\" when he was still an unknown scholar. Mouton, a small Dutch publisher, released the book. Still, this dense technical work was well received in the beginning. It was even considered a welcome addition to the existing tradition of language study. Yet, established older linguists soon began criticizing it for its bold new views. Unlike them, younger linguists were eager to adopt Chomsky's way of doing research. And so linguistics changed course in the second half of the 20th century. It became normal to build more formal theories with syntax at their center. This way of study valued language's place in the mind over language behavior.\n\n\"Syntactic Structures\" has influenced fields outside linguistics. It had a big impact on the study of knowledge, mind and mental processes. It also had a smaller effect on the research on computers and brain. Some specialists have questioned Chomsky's theory. They think it is wrong to describe language as an ideal system. They also say it gives less value to the gathering and testing of data. Still, going into the 21st century, linguists and non-linguists alike praised the book. They recognized it as one of the most important studies of the 20th century.\n\nChomsky's interest in language started at an early age. When he was twelve, he studied Hebrew grammar under his father. He also studied Arabic in his first year at the University of Pennsylvania. In 1947, he met Zellig Harris, the founder of the college's linguistics department. Harris was an established linguist. He did research in the way laid out by American linguist Leonard Bloomfield. He let Chomsky proofread a copy of his book \"Methods in Structural Linguistics\" (1951). This is how Chomsky came to know a formal theory of linguistics. He soon decided to major in the subject.\n\nFor his thesis, Chomsky set out to apply Harris's methods to Hebrew. Following Harris's advice, he studied logic, philosophy, and mathematics. He found Harris's views on language much like Nelson Goodman's work on philosophical systems. Chomsky was also influenced by the works of W. V. O. Quine and Rudolf Carnap. Quine showed that one cannot completely verify the meaning of a statement through observations. Carnap had developed a formal theory of language. It used symbols and rules that did not refer to meaning.\n\nFrom there on, Chomsky tried to build a grammar of Hebrew. Such a grammar would generate the phonetic or sound forms of sentences. To this end, he organized Harris's methods in a different way. To describe sentence forms and structures, he came up with a set of recursive rules. These are rules that refer back to themselves. He also found that there were many different ways of presenting the grammar. He tried to develop a method to measure how simple a grammar is. For this, he looked for \"generalizations\" among the possible sets of grammatical rules. Chomsky completed his undergraduate thesis \"The Morphophonemics of Modern Hebrew\" in 1949. He then published a revised and expanded version of it as his master's thesis in 1951.\n\nIn 1951, Chomsky became a Junior Fellow at Harvard University. There, he tried to build an all-formal linguistic theory. It was a clear break with the existing tradition of language study. In 1953, Chomsky published his first paper as a scholar. In it he tried to adapt the symbol-based language of logic to describe the syntax of a human language. During his fellowship, Chomsky organized all his ideas into a huge manuscript. It was around 1,000 typewritten pages long. He gave it the title \"The Logical Structure of Linguistic Theory\" (\"LSLT\").\n\nIn 1955, Chomsky found a job at MIT. He worked there as a linguist in the mechanical translation project. The same year he submitted his doctoral dissertation to the University of Pennsylvania. The university granted him a Ph.D. for his thesis \"Transformational Analysis.\" In fact, it was just the ninth chapter of \"LSLT\".\n\nIn 1955, Chomsky had a doctorate in linguistics. Even so, he struggled at first to publish his theory and views on language. He offered the manuscript of \"The Logical Structure of Linguistic Theory\" (\"LSLT\") for publication. But MIT's Technology Press refused to publish it. He also saw a paper promptly rejected by the academic linguistics journal \"WORD\". So he remained an outsider to the field of linguistics. His reviews and articles at the time were mostly published in non-linguistic journals.\n\nMouton & Co. was a Dutch publishing house based in The Hague. They had gained academic reputation by publishing works on Slavic Studies since 1954. Particularly, they had published works by linguists Nicolaas Van Wijk and Roman Jakobson. Soon they started a new series called \"Janua Linguarum\" or the \"Gate of Languages.\" It was intended to be a series of \"small monographs\" on general linguistics. The first volume of the \"Janua Linguarum\" series was written by Roman Jakobson and Morris Halle. It was called \"Fundamentals of Language\", published in 1956. Chomsky had already met Jakobson, a professor at Harvard University, during his fellowship years. Halle was Chomsky's graduate classmate at Harvard and then a close colleague at MIT. In 1956, Chomsky and Halle collaborated to write an article on phonology, published in a festschrift for Jakobson. The festschrift was published by Mouton in 1956.\n\nCornelis van Schooneveld was the editor of the \"Janua Linguarum\" series at Mouton. He was a Dutch linguist and a direct student of Jakobson. He was looking for monographs to publish for his series. Consequently, he visited Chomsky at MIT in 1956. With Morris Halle's (and possibly Jakobson's) mediation, Chomsky showed van Schooneveld his notes for his introductory linguistics course for undergraduate students. Van Schoonefeld took an interest in them. He offered to publish an elaborate version of them at Mouton, to which Chomsky agreed.\n\nChomsky then prepared a manuscript of the right size (no longer than 120 pages) that would fit the series. After revising an earlier manuscript, Chomsky sent a final version in the first week of August in 1956 to van Schooneveld. The editor had Chomsky rename the book's title to \"Syntactic Structures\" for commercial purposes. The book was also pre-ordered in big numbers by MIT. These gave more incentives to Mouton to publish the book. Mouton finally published Chomsky's monograph titled \"Syntactic Structures\" in the second week of February 1957.\n\nSoon after the book's first publication, Bernard Bloch, editor of the prestigious journal \"Language\", gave linguist Robert Benjamin Lees, a colleague of Chomsky's at MIT, the opportunity to write a review of the book. Lees's very positive essay-length review appeared in the July–September 1957 issue of \"Language\". This early but influential review made \"Syntactic Structures\" visible on the linguistic research landscape. Shortly thereafter the book created a putative \"revolution\" in the discipline. As for \"LSLT\", it would be 17 more years before it saw publication.\n\n\"Syntactic Structures\" was the fourth book in the \"Janua Linguarum\" series. It was the series's bestselling book. It was reprinted 13 times until 1978. In 1962, a Russian translation by Konstantin Ivanovich Babisky, titled \"Синтакси́ческие структу́ры\" (\"Sintaksychyeskiye Struktury\"), was published in Moscow. In 1963, Yasuo Isamu wrote a Japanese translation of the book, named \"文法の構造\" (\"Bunpō no kōzō\"). In 1969, a French translation by Michel Braudeau, titled \"Structures Syntaxiques\", was published by Éditions du Seuil in Paris. In 1973, Mouton published a German translation by Klaus-Peter Lange, titled \"Strukturen der Syntax\". The book has also been translated into Korean, Spanish, Italian, Czech, Serbo-Croatian and Swedish languages.\n\nIn \"Syntactic Structures\", Chomsky tries to construct a \"formalized theory of linguistic structure\". He places emphasis on \"rigorous formulations\" and \"precisely constructed models\". In the first chapter of the book, he gives a definition of human language syntax. He then talks about the goals of syntactic study. For Chomsky, a linguist's goal is to build a grammar of a language. He defines grammar as a device which produces all the sentences of the language under study. Secondly, a linguist must find the abstract concepts beneath grammars to develop a general method. This method would help select the best possible device or grammar for any language given its corpus. Finally, a linguistic theory must give a satisfactory description of all the levels of language analysis. Examples of these levels include sounds, words and sentence structures.\n\nThe second chapter is titled \"The Independence of Grammar\". In it, Chomsky states that a language is \"a set ... of sentences, each finite in length and constructed out of a finite set of elements\". A linguist should separate the \"grammatical sequences\" or sentences of a language from the \"ungrammatical sequences\". By a \"grammatical\" sentence Chomsky means a sentence that is intuitively \"acceptable to a native speaker\". It is a sentence pronounced with a \"normal sentence intonation\". It is also \"recall[ed] much more quickly\" and \"learn[ed] much more easily\".\n\nChomsky then analyzes further about the basis of \"grammaticality.\" He shows three ways that do \"not\" determine whether a sentence is grammatical or not. First, a grammatical sentence need not be included in a corpus. Secondly, it need not be meaningful. Finally, it does not have to be statistically probable. Chomsky shows all three points using a nonsensical sentence \"Colorless green ideas sleep furiously.\" He writes that the sentence is instinctively \"grammatical\" to a native English speaker. But it is not included in any known corpus at the time and is neither meaningful nor statistically probable.\n\nChomsky concludes that \"grammar is autonomous and independent of meaning.\" He adds that \"probabilistic models give no particular insight into some of the basic problems of syntactic structure.\"\n\nBritish linguist Marcus Tomalin stated that a version of \"Colorless green ideas sleep furiously\" was suggested decades earlier by Rudolf Carnap. This German philosopher offered in 1934 the pseudo-sentence \"Piroten karulieren elatisch\". According to American linguist Reese Heitner, Carnap's sentence showed the autonomy of both syntactic and phonological structures.\n\nIn the third chapter titled \"An Elementary Linguistic Theory\", Chomsky tries to determine what sort of device or model gives an adequate account of a given set of \"grammatical\" sentences. Chomsky hypothesizes that this device has to be finite instead of infinite. He then considers finite state grammar, a communication theoretic model which treats language as a Markov process. Then in the fourth chapter titled \"Phrase Structure\", he discusses phrase structure grammar, a model based on immediate constituent analysis. In the fifth chapter titled \"Limitations of Phrase Structure Description\", he claims to show that both these models are inadequate for the purpose of linguistic description. As a solution, he introduces transformational generative grammar (TGG), \"a more powerful model ... that might remedy these inadequacies.\"\n\nChomsky's transformational grammar has three parts: phrase structure rules, transformational rules and morphophonemic rules. The phrase structure rules are used for expanding grammatical categories and for substitutions. These yield a string of morphemes. A transformational rule \"operates on a given string ... with a given constituent structure and converts it into a new string with a new derived constituent structure.\" It \"may rearrange strings or may add or delete morphemes.\" Transformational rules are of two kinds: obligatory or optional. Obligatory transformations applied on the \"terminal strings\" of the grammar produce the \"kernel of the language\". Kernel sentences are simple, active, declarative and affirmative sentences. To produce passive, negative, interrogative or complex sentences, one or more optional transformation rules must be applied in a particular order to the kernel sentences. At the final stage of the grammar, morphophonemic rules convert a string of words into a string of phonemes. Chomsky then applies this idea of transformational rules in the English auxiliary verb system.\n\nIn \"Syntactic Structures\", the term \"transformation\" was borrowed from the works of Zellig Harris. Harris was Chomsky's initial mentor. Harris used the term \"transformation\" to describe equivalence relations between sentences of a language. By contrast, Chomsky's used the term to describe a formal rule applied to underlying structures of sentences.\n\nChomsky also borrowed the term \"generative\" from a previous work of mathematician Emil Post. Post wanted to \"mechanically [derive] inferences from an initial axiomatic sentence\". Chomsky applied Post's work on logical inference to describe sets of strings (sequence of letters or sounds) of a human language. When he says a finite set of rules \"generate\" (i.e. \"recursively enumerate\") the set of potentially infinite number of sentences of a particular human language, he means that they provide an explicit, structural description of those sentences.\n\nIn the sixth chapter titled \"On the Goals of Linguistic Theory\", Chomsky writes that his \"fundamental concern\" is \"the problem of justification of grammars\". He draws parallels between the theory of language and theories in physical sciences. He compares a finite corpus of utterances of a particular language to \"observations\". He likens grammatical rules to \"laws\" which are stated in terms of \"hypothetical constructs\" such as phonemes, phrases, etc. According to Chomsky, the criteria for the \"justification of grammars\" are \"external conditions of adequacy\", the \"condition of generality\" and \"simplicity\". To choose the best possible grammar for a given corpus of a given language, Chomsky shows his preference for the \"evaluation procedure\" (which uses the aforementioned criteria). He rejects the \"discovery procedure\" (employed in structural linguistics and supposed to automatically and mechanically produce the correct grammar of a language from a corpus). He also dismisses the \"decision procedure\" (supposed to automatically choose the best grammar for a language from a set of competing grammars). Chomsky thus shows preference for \"explanatory depth\" with some \"empirical inadequacies\" over the pursuit of very detailed empirical coverage of all data.\n\nIn the seventh chapter titled \"Some Transformations in English\", Chomsky strictly applies his just-proposed transformation-based approach on some aspects of English. He treats at length the formation of English negative passive sentences, yes-no and wh- interrogative sentences, etc. He claims in the end that transformational analysis can describe \"a wide variety of ... distinct phenomena\" in English grammar in a \"simple\", \"natural\" and \"orderly\" way.\n\nIn the eighth chapter titled \"The explanatory power of linguistic theory\", Chomsky writes a linguistic theory cannot content itself by just generating valid grammatical sentences. It also has to account for other structural phenomena at different levels of linguistic representation. At a certain linguistic level, there can be two items which can be understood having different meanings but they are structurally indistinguishable within that level. This is called a “constructional homonymity” [sic]. The relevant ambiguity can be resolved by establishing a higher level of linguistic analysis. At this higher level, the two items can be clearly shown having two different structural interpretations. In this way, constructional homonymities at the phonemic level can be resolved by establishing the level of morphology, and so forth. One of the motivation of establishing a distinct, higher level of linguistic analysis is, then, to explain the structural ambiguity due to the constructional homonymities at a lower level. On the other hand, each linguistic level also captures some structural similarities within the level that are not explained in lower levels. Chomsky uses this argument as well to motivate the establishment of distinct levels of linguistic analysis.\n\nChomsky then shows that a grammar which analyzes sentences up to the phrase structure level contains many constructional homonymities at the phrase structure level where the resulting ambiguities need to be explained at a higher level. Then he shows how his newly invented “transformational level” can naturally and successfully function as that higher level. He further claims that any phrase structure grammar which cannot explain these ambiguities as successfully as transformational grammar does must be considered \"inadequate\".\n\nIn the ninth chapter titled \"Syntax and Semantics\", Chomsky reminds that his analysis so far has been \"completely formal and non-semantic.\" He then offers many counterexamples to refute some common linguistic assertions about grammar's reliance on meaning. He concludes that the correspondence between meaning and grammatical form is \"imperfect\", \"inexact\" and \"vague.\" Consequently, it is \"relatively useless\" to use meaning \"as a basis for grammatical description\". To support his point, Chomsky considers a similar relation between semantics and phonology. He shows that in order to build a theory of phonemic distinction based on meaning would entail \"complex\", \"exhaustive\" and \"laborious investigation\" of an \"immense\", \"vast corpus\". By contrast, phonemic distinctness can be easily explained in a \"straightforward\" way and in \"completely non-semantic terms\" with the help of \"pair tests\". Chomsky also claims that a strictly formal, non-semantic framework of syntactic theory might ultimately be useful to support a parallel independent semantic theory.\n\nRandy Allen Harris, a specialist of the rhetoric of science, writes that \"Syntactic Structures\" \"appeals calmly and insistently to a new conception\" of linguistic science. He finds the book \"lucid, convincing, syntactically daring, the calm voice of reason ... [speaking] directly to the imagination and ambition of the entire field.\" It also bridged the \"rhetorical gulf\" to make the message of \"The Logical Structure of Linguistic Theory\" (a highly abstract, mathematically dense, and \"forbiddingly technical\" work) more palatable to the wider field of linguists. In a more detailed examination of the book, Harris finds Chomsky's argumentation in \"Syntactic Structures\" \"multilayered and compelling\". Chomsky not only makes a logical appeal (i.e. logos) to a highly formalized model of language, but also appeals explicitly and tacitly to the ethos of science.\n\nIn particular, Chomsky’s analysis of the complex English auxiliary verb system in \"Syntactic Structures\" had great rhetorical effect. It combined simple phrase structure rules with a simple transformational rule. This treatment was based entirely on formal simplicity. Various linguists have described it as “beautiful”, “powerful”, “elegant”, “revealing”, “insightful”, “beguiling” and “ingenious”. According to American linguist Frederick Newmeyer, this particular analysis won many “supporters for Chomsky” and “immediately led to some linguists’ proposing generative-transformational analysis of particular phenomena”. According to British linguist E. Keith Brown, \"the elegance and insightfulness of this account was instantly recognized, and this was an important factor in ensuring the initial success of the transformational way of looking at syntax.\" American linguist Mark Aronoff wrote that this “beautiful analysis and description of some very striking facts was the rhetorical weapon that drove the acceptance of [Chomsky’s] theory”. He added that in Chomsky’s treatment of English verbs, “the convergence of theory and analysis provide a description of facts so convincing that it changed the entire field”.\n\nRaymond Oenbring, a doctorate in the rhetoric of science, thinks that Chomsky \"overstates the novelty\" of transformational rules. He \"seems to take all the credit for them\" even though a version of them had already been introduced by Zellig Harris in a previous work. He writes that Chomsky himself was \"cautious\" to \"display deference\" to prevailing linguistic research. His enthusiastic followers such as Lees were, by contrast, much more \"confrontational\". They sought to drive a \"rhetorical wedge\" between Chomsky's work and that of post-Bloomfieldians (i.e. American linguists in the 1940s et 1950s), arguing that the latter does not qualify as linguistic \"science\".\n\nIn an early review of the book, American structural linguist Charles F. Voegelin wrote that \"Syntactic Structures\" posed a fundamental challenge to the established way of doing linguistic research. He stated that it had the potential to accomplish \"a Copernican revolution\" within linguistics. Another American linguist Martin Joos called the Chomskyan brand of linguistic theory a \"heresy\" within the Bloomfieldian tradition. These early remarks proved to be prescient. American linguist Paul Postal commented in 1964 that most of the \"syntactic conceptions prevalent in the United States\" were \"versions of the theory of phrase structure grammars in the sense of Chomsky\". By 1965, linguists were saying that \"Syntactic Structures\" had \"mark[ed] an epoch\", had a \"startling impact\" and created a Kuhnian \"revolution\". British linguist John Lyons wrote in 1966 that \"no work has had a greater influence upon the current linguistic theory than Chomsky's \"Syntactic Structures\".\" British historian of linguistics R. H. Robins wrote in 1967 that the publication of Chomsky's \"Syntactic Structures\" was \"probably the most radical and important change in direction in descriptive linguistics and in linguistic theory that has taken place in recent years\".\n\nAnother historian of linguistics Frederick Newmeyer considers \"Syntactic Structures\" \"revolutionary\" for two reasons. Firstly, it showed that a formal yet non-empiricist theory of language was possible. Chomsky demonstrated this possibility in a practical sense by formally treating a fragment of English grammar. Secondly, it put syntax at the center of the theory of language. Syntax was recognized as the focal point of language production, in which a finite set of rules can produce an infinite number of sentences. Subsequently, morphology (i.e. the study of structure and formation of words) and phonology (i.e. the study of organization of sounds in languages) were relegated in importance.\n\nAmerican linguist Norbert Hornstein wrote that before \"Syntactic Structures\", linguistic research was overly preoccupied with creating hierarchies and categories of all observable language data. One of the \"lasting contributions\" of \"Syntactic Structures\" is that it shifted the linguistic research methodology to abstract, rationalist theory-making based on contacts with data, which is the \"common scientific practice\".\n\nThe generative grammar of \"Syntactic Structures\" heralded Chomsky's mentalist perspective in linguistic analysis. Shortly after its publication, in 1959, Chomsky wrote a critical review of B.F. Skinner's \"Verbal Behavior\". Skinner had presented the acquisition of human language in terms of conditioned responses to outside stimuli and reinforcement. Chomsky opposed this behaviorist model. He argued that humans produce language using separate syntactic and semantic components inside the mind. He presented the generative grammar as a coherent abstract description of this underlying psycholinguistic reality. Chomsky's argument had a forceful impact on psycholinguistic research. It changed the course of the discipline in the following years.\n\"Syntactic Structures\" initiated an interdisciplinary dialog between philosophers of language and linguists. American philosopher John Searle called it a \"remarkable intellectual achievement\" of its time. He compared the book \"to the work of Keynes or Freud\". He credited it with producing not only a \"revolution in linguistics\", but also having a \"revolutionary effect\" on \"philosophy and psychology\". Chomsky and Willard Van Orman Quine, a stridently anti-mentalistic philosopher of language, debated many times on the merit of Chomsky's linguistic theories. Many philosophers supported Chomsky's idea that natural languages are innate and syntactically rule-governed. They also believed in the existence of rules in the human mind which bind meanings to utterances. The investigation of these rules started a new era in philosophical semantics.\nWith its formal and logical treatment of language, \"Syntactic Structures\" also brought linguistics and the new field of computer science closer together. Computer scientist Donald Knuth (winner of the Turing Award) recounted that he read \"Syntactic Structures\" in 1961 and was influenced by it. Chomsky's \"Three models\" paper (), published a year prior to the \"Syntactic Structures\" and containing many of its ideas, was crucial to the development of the theory of formal languages within computer science.\nIn 2011, a group of French neuroscientists conducted research to verify if actual brain mechanisms worked in the way that Chomsky suggested in \"Syntactic Structures\". The results suggested that specific regions of the brain handle syntactic information in an abstract way. These are independent from other brain regions that handle semantic information. Moreover, the brain analyzes not just mere strings of words, but hierarchical structures of constituents. These observations validated the theoretical claims of Chomsky in \"Syntactic Structures\".\n\nIn 2015, neuroscientists at New York University conducted experiments to verify if the human brain uses \"hierarchical structure building\" for processing languages. They measured the magnetic and electric activities in the brains of participants. The results showed that \"[human] brains distinctly tracked three components of the phrases they heard.\" This \"[reflected] a hierarchy in our neural processing of linguistic structures: words, phrases, and then sentences—at the same time.\" These results bore out Chomsky's hypothesis in \"Syntactic Structures\" of an \"internal grammar mechanism\" inside the brain.\n\nIn his 1964 presidential address to the Linguistic Society of America, American linguist Charles Hockett considered \"Syntactic Structures\" one of \"only four major breakthroughs in modern linguistics\". But he rapidly turned into a fierce critic of Chomskyan linguistics. By 1966, Hockett rejected \"[Chomsky's] frame of reference in almost every detail\". In his 1968 book \"The State of the Art\", Hockett writes that Chomsky's main fallacy is that he treats language as a formal, well-defined, stable system and proceeds from this idealized abstraction. Hockett believes such an idealization is not possible. He claims that there is no empirical evidence that our language faculty is, in reality, a well-defined underlying system. The sources that give rise to language faculty in humans, e.g. physical genetic transmission and cultural transmission, are themselves poorly defined. Hockett also opposed Chomsky's hypothesis that syntax is completely independent of the study of meaning.\nContrary to Hockett, British linguist Geoffrey Sampson thought that Chomsky's assumptions about a well-defined grammaticality are \"[justified] in practice.\" It brought syntax \"within the purview of scientific description\". He considers it a \"great positive contribution to the discipline\". However, he maintains that Chomsky's linguistics is overly \"intuition-based\". For him, it relies too much on native speakers' subjective introspective judgments about their own language. Consequently, language data empirically observed by impersonal third parties are given less importance. \nAccording to Sampson, \"Syntactic Structures\" largely owes its good fortune of becoming the dominant theoretical paradigm in the following years to the charisma of Chomsky's intellect. Sampson writes that there are many references in \"Syntactic Structures\" to Chomsky's own \"The Logical Structure of Linguistic Theory\" (LSLT) in matters regarding the formal underpinnings of Chomsky's approach, but \"LSLT\" was not widely available in print for decades. Nevertheless, Sampson's argument runs, \"Syntactic Structures\", albeit \"sketchy\", derived its \"aura of respectability\" from \"LSLT\" lurking in the background. In turn, the acceptance of Chomsky's future works rested on the success of \"Syntactic Structures\". In the view of British-American linguist Geoffrey K. Pullum, \"Syntactic Structures\" boldly claims that \"it is impossible, not just difficult\" for finite-state devices to generate all grammatical sentences of English, and then alludes to \"LSLT\" for the \"rigorous proof\" of this. But in reality, \"LSLT\" does not contain a valid, convincing proof dismissing finite-state devices.\nPullum also remarks that the \"originality\" of \"Syntactic Structures\" is \"highly overstated\". For him, it \"does not properly credit the earlier literature on which it draws\". He shows in detail how the approach in \"Syntactic Structures\" goes directly back to the work of the mathematical logician Emil Post on formalizing proof. But \"few linguists are aware of this, because Post's papers are not cited.\" Pullum adds that the use of formal axiomatic systems to generate probable sentences in language in a top-down manner was first proposed by Zellig Harris in 1947, ten years before the publication of \"Syntactic Structures\". This is downplayed in \"Syntactic Structures\".\nIn 1982, Pullum and another British linguist Gerald Gazdar argued that Chomsky's criticisms of context-free phrase structure grammar in \"Syntactic Structures\" are either mathematically flawed or based on incorrect assessments of the empirical data. They stated that a purely phrase structure treatment of grammar can explain linguistic phenomena better than one that uses transformations.\n\nIn 2000, University of Minnesota's Center for Cognitive Sciences compiled a list of the 100 most influential works in cognitive science from the 20th century. In total, 305 scholarly works and one movie were nominated via the internet. \"Syntactic Structures\" was ranked number one on this list, marking it as the most influential work of cognitive science of the century.\n\n\"Syntactic Structures\" was included in \"The 100 Most Influential Books Ever Written\", a book on intellectual history by British literary critic and biographer Martin Seymour-Smith published in 1998.\n\n\"Syntactic Structures\" was also featured in a list of 100 best English language non-fiction books since 1923 picked by the American weekly magazine Time.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53137094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53137094", "title": "The Culture of Nakedness and the Nakedness of Culture", "text": "The Culture of Nakedness and the Nakedness of Culture\n\nThe Culture of Nakedness and the Nakedness of Culture is a book by Gholam-Ali Haddad-Adel, an Iranian scholar and intellectual, criticizing Western culture. The book focuses on the issue of women's rights and the hijab, and argues that Western clothing differs from that of Eastern societies due to the differences in their viewpoints on humankind. It also explains how Japanese clothing became Westernized.\n\nThe book was first published by Sorush Publications in 1980 and its twenty-third reprint was released in 2014. It has been translated into several languages, including an Urdu version translated by Yunus Jaffery.\n\n\"Culture of Nakedness and the Nakedness of Culture\" deals with the issues of women's rights and the wearing of the hijab by Muslim women according to Islamic teachings and traditions. According to Babar Awan, this is a \"controversial subject\" and has various effects both within Islamic societies and the West. It addresses the importance of hijab for Islamic societies and argues that a \"society's culture determines its dress style\". \"The Culture of Nakedness and the Nakedness of Culture\" discusses the effects of various factors on the form and size of clothing, without investigating those effects or discussing the quality and limits of clothing from a religious viewpoint. The relationship between Western clothing and culture, capitalism and clothing, historical backgrounds on nudity, the relationship between the hijab and Islamic culture, and the Westernization of traditional Japanese clothing, are among the subjects discussed in the book. Comparing \"the dress philosophy in post-Renaissance Europe and non-Western societies\", Haddad-Adel argues that \"Western clothes are short and tight\", while Eastern clothing is \"long and loose\", because these societies have \"divergent notions of humankind\".\n\nThe book's launch event was held by the National Language Authority of Pakistan. According to Fateh Malik, Dean of Faculty, Islamic University of Pakistan, the book was much needed in Pakistan’s present socio-cultural environment. The book is described by Zahra Pamela Karimi, a professor of art history at UMass Dartmouth, as one of the best examples articulating the anti \"Western Pahlavi reforms and global influences\" in Iran whose ideas were based on the \"dichotomies of 'public' and 'private' and 'foreign' and 'local'\". Haddad-Adel supports \"the concealment of women's bodies as a way to protect the larger society from the manipulation of capitalism and imperialism\", according to Pamela Karimi. According to Karimi, he tried to \"catch up with modernity and yet indigenize it through Islam\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2623247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2623247", "title": "The Essence of Christianity", "text": "The Essence of Christianity\n\nThe Essence of Christianity (; historical orthography: \"Das Weſen des Chriſtenthums\") is a book by Ludwig Feuerbach first published in 1841. It explains Feuerbach's philosophy and critique of religion.\n\nThe book is often considered a classic of humanism and the author's \"magnum opus\". Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels were strongly influenced by the book, although they criticised Feuerbach for his inconsistent espousal of materialism. Feuerbach's theory of alienation would later be used by Marx in his theory of alienation. Max Stirner directed his \"The Ego and Its Own\" against it. Rather than simply a polemic, Stirner's work uses Feuerbach's idea of God as a human abstraction as the basis of his critique of Feuerbach.\n\nFeuerbach's theme was a derivation of Hegel's speculative theology in which the Creation remains a part of the Creator, while the Creator remains greater than the Creation. When the student Feuerbach presented his own theory to professor Hegel, Hegel refused to reply positively to it.\n\nIn Part I of his book, Feuerbach developed what he calls the \"true or anthropological essence of religion.\" Treating of God in his various aspects \"as a being of the understanding,\" \"as a moral being or law,\" \"as love\" and so on. Feuerbach talks of how man is equally a conscious being, more so than God because man has placed upon God the ability of understanding. Man contemplates many things and in doing so he becomes acquainted with himself. Feuerbach shows that in every aspect God corresponds to some feature or need of human nature. \"If man is to find contentment in God,\" he claims, \"he must find himself in God.\"\n\nThus God is nothing else than man: he is, so to speak, the outward projection of man's inward nature. This projection is dubbed as a chimera by Feuerbach, that God and the idea of a higher being is dependent upon the aspect of benevolence. Feuerbach states that, \"a God who is not benevolent, not just, not wise, is no God\", and continues to say that qualities are not suddenly denoted as divine because of their godly association. The qualities themselves are divine therefore making God divine, indicating that man is capable of understanding and applying meanings of divinity to religion and not that religion makes a man divine.\n\nThe force of this attraction to religion though, giving divinity to a figure like God, is explained by Feuerbach as God is a being that acts throughout man in all forms. God, \"is the principle of [man's] salvation, of [man's] good dispositions and actions, consequently [man's] own good principle and nature\". It appeals to man to give qualities to the idol of their religion because without these qualities a figure such as God would become merely an object, its importance would become obsolete, there would no longer be a feeling of an existence for God. Therefore, Feuerbach says, when man removes all qualities from God, \"God is no longer anything more to him than a negative being\". Additionally, because man is imaginative, God is given traits and there holds the appeal. God is a part of man through the invention of a God. Equally though, man is repulsed by God because, \"God alone is the being who acts of himself\".\n\nIn part 2 he discusses the \"false or theological essence of religion,\" \"i.e.\" the view which regards God as having a separate existence over against man. Hence arise various mistaken beliefs, such as the belief in revelation which he believes not only injures the moral sense, but also \"poisons, nay destroys, the divinest feeling in man, the sense of truth,\" and the belief in sacraments such as the Lord's Supper, which is to him a piece of religious materialism of which \"the necessary consequences are superstition and immorality.\"\n\nA caustic criticism of Feuerbach was delivered in 1844 by Max Stirner. In his book \"Der Einzige und sein Eigentum\" (\"The Ego and Its Own\") he attacked Feuerbach as inconsistent in his atheism. (see External Links)\n\nGerman\n\nEnglish (translated by Marian Evans).\n\nFrench (translated by Joseph Roy)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27280834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27280834", "title": "The Mentor Philosophers", "text": "The Mentor Philosophers\n\nThe Mentor Philosophers was a series of six books each covering a period of philosophical thought, published by the New American Library. Each book was edited by an esteemed contemporary philosophy academic and contained analysis of a group of philosophers from a chosen period.\n\nThe series was very influential during the 1950s and 1960s and went a number of editions in paperback. Literary historian Gilbert Highet called it a \"very important and interesting series\".\n"}
{"id": "17723527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17723527", "title": "The Sound of Zen", "text": "The Sound of Zen\n\nThe Sound of Zen is a 2002 solo shakuhachi album by Atsuya Okuda. The album contains recordings of six honkyoku, the music of Japanese Zen monks, played by Okuda. \n\nOkuda has played shakuhachi since 1985 but until this album he refused to record his playing, believing that only live sound leads to an understanding of jinashi shakuhachi. The CD was published by S-Two Corporation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59041429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59041429", "title": "Wolfe Mays", "text": "Wolfe Mays\n\nWolfe Mays (1912 - 21 January 2005) was a British philosopher. He was the founder of British Society for Phenomenology and the editor of its journal.\nMays is known for his efforts for introducing phenomenology in England. He taught at the University of Manchester from 1946 until his retirement in 1979.\n"}
{"id": "28712524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28712524", "title": "Yuri Samarin", "text": "Yuri Samarin\n\nYuri Fyodorovich Samarin (; May 3, 1819, Saint Petersburg – March 31, 1876, Berlin) was a leading Russian Slavophile thinker and one of the architects of the Emancipation reform of 1861.\n\nHe came from a noble family and befriended Konstantin Aksakov from an early age. An ardent admirer of Hegel and Khomyakov, Samarin attended the Moscow University, where his teachers included Mikhail Pogodin. He came to believe that \"Orthodoxy, and Orthodoxy alone, is a religion which philosophy can recognize\" and that \"the Orthodox church cannot exist apart from Hegel's philosophy\". Samarin's dissertation was a study of Feofan Prokopovich's influence on the Russian Orthodox Church. \n\nHe later joined the government service and settled in Riga, where the well entrenched influence of Baltic German nobility exasperated him to such a degree that he urged the government to step up Russification activities in the region. This outburst of chauvinism led to his brief imprisonment in the Peter and Paul Fortress. (Samarin's Slavophilism passed for Pan-Slavism, which was viewed by Nicholas I as a \"rebellious doctrine\").\n\nIn his latter years, Samarin continued to write copiously on national and \"peasant\" questions, advocating the step-by-step abolition of serfdom. After the January Uprising he advised Nikolai Milyutin to support Polish peasantry as the embodiment of \"the Slavic soul\" of Poland at the expense of \"the forces of Latinism\", i.e., rebellious nobility and Catholic clergy. He died in Berlin of sepsis and was buried next to Khomyakov in the Danilov Monastery.\n"}
{"id": "41518104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41518104", "title": "Đuro Arnold", "text": "Đuro Arnold\n\nĐuro Arnold (24 March 1853 – 22 February 1941) was a Croatian writer and philosopher.\n\nArnold was born as the 19th of 24 children of Ivan, a tax gatherer, and Sofija, née Vukanić. His ancestors arrived from Switzerland during the French Revolution. He was born in Ivanec and spent his early childhood in Krapina. He attended primary school in Zagreb, and high school in Varaždin and Zagreb, where he graduated in 1873.\n\nIn 1874 he enrolled at the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb majoring in philosophy, with a minor in history and geography. During the Bosnian crisis he was recruited, and it was only in 1879 that he was hired as a professor in a Zagreb gymnasium. In 1880 he was promoted as the first PhD in philosophy at the University of Zagreb, with a thesis \"Ethics and history\" (\"Etika i povijest\"), which was published in 1879. He continued his studies at the universities of Göttingen (1880), Berlin and Paris (1881/1882).\n\nSince 1889 he served as the Director of the Royal Teacher's School. In 1894 he was appointed as a professor extraordinarius, and since 1896 as the full professor of theoretical and practical philosophy and pedagogy at the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb. He retired in 1923. He was the dean of the Faculty of Arts in the periods of 1898-1899, and 1912-1913, and also the rector of the University of Zagreb in the period 1899-1900.\n\nHe was appointed as a corresponding member of the Yugoslav Academy of Sciences and Arts in 1891, and as a full member in 1899. He served as the president of Matica hrvatska in 1902–1909. In 1892 he became an honorary member of the Croatian Pedagogic-Literary Society, in 1924 a member of the Society of the Brothers of the Croatian Dragon, and an honorary citizen of Krapina.\n\nAs a writer, his work is a continuation of Croatia's romantic poetry in the tradition of August Šenoa and Franjo Marković. His first appearance as a writer was the song \"Pri povratku\" (\"On the way back\", \"Vienac\", 1873, 49). He mostly published patriotic songs, romances and ballads with themes from Croatian history and folklore (\"Krapinske elegije\", \"Damjan Juda, knez dubrovački\", \"Kata Lovićeva\" etc.), as well as reflexive lyricism in publications such as Vienac (1873-1886, 1888-1891, 1893-1902 ), Hrvatska lipa (1875), Hrvatski dom (1876), Obzor (1898, 1900, 1901, 1904), Prosvjeta (1904–1913), Hrvatsko kolo (1905, 1906, 1908, 1930), Katolički list (1906, 1915, 1916), Hrvatska smotra (1907–1910, 1933), Hrvatsko pravo (1908, 1924), Koledar hrvatskoga katoličkoga narodnoga đaštva (1909, 1910), Serafinski perivoj (1909–1913), Književni prilog (1911, 1912, 1913–1915), Hrvatska (1912, 1914, 1915), Hrvatska prosvjeta (1914–1918), Naša misao (1914, 1915 ), Jeka od Osijeka (1918, 1919), Vijenac (1923, 1925, 1927), Hrvatsko pravo (1924, 1925), Omladina (1924, 1925), Hranilovićeva spomenica (1925), Selo i grad (1928/1929, 1930, 1931), Hrvatski list (1939), Novo doba (1940) and others. He wrote a single short story \"Samo četvrt sata\" (Vienac, 1880, 15–18).\n\nHe signed his works in codes and pseudonyms: \"A.\", \"G. A.\", \"Gj. A.\", \"Gj. A-d\", \"Gj. Ar.\", \"O. D.\", \"R. R.\", \"Ivančanin\", \"Georg Arnold\". He published several books of poems, and the poem \"Domovina\" has gained him popularity. His works were published in many anthologies, calendars and almanacs. The selection of his poetry was translated to Czech, Esperanto, German, Slovak and Italian. He expressed his views on literature in talks at the Matica hrvatska conferences: \"Umjetnost prema znanosti\", \"Može li umjetnost zamijeniti vjeru\", \"Jedinstvena hrvatska narodna kultura\" (Glas Matice hrvatske, 1906, 1908, 1909).\n\nAs a philosopher, he was influenced by Leibniz, Johann Friedrich Herbart and Hermann Lotze, representing the \"spiritualist positivism\" movement and the view that the knowledge of the world can be reached only by the combined efforts of science, art and religion. He wrote on the fundamental questions of philosophy, which he defined as the science of \"final causes and purposes of being\".\n\nIn the treatise \"Zadnja bića\" (\"Last beings\", Rad JAZU, 1888, 93 ) he conceived a world composed from the variety of simple, immutable soullike \"last beings\" that are connected by the feeling of touch and hierarchically arranged according to different levels of awareness, with absolute consciousness, the God, occupying the peak of the hierarchy. According to Arnold, faith represents the supreme stronghold of a man and the basic principle of harmony of his spiritual functions.\n\nAccording to some opinions, in his later works such as \"O psihologiji bez duše\" and \"Monizam i kršćanstvo\" (Rad JAZU, 1909, 176 and 178) Arnold has abandoned his earlier philosophical views. Others such as Pavao Vuk-Pavlović, Stjepan Matičević and Blaženka Despot however maintain that Arnold's philosophical view was uniform and consistent - spiritualist pluralism which doesn't completely exclude spiritualist monism.\n\nArnold is one of the founders of the Croatian philosophical terminology, having authored two influential high school textbooks (\"Logika\" and \"Psihologija\") that were standard textbooks for more than thirty years.\n\nAt Arnold's proposal, in 1896 the Pedagogical Seminar for theoretical and practical training of future secondary school teachers was founded at the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb. As a teacher, organizer of educational system, the first Professor of Pedagogy at the Faculty of Philosophy and the first head of the Pedagogical Seminar, has influenced many generations of teachers.\n\nArnold died in Zagreb.\n\nIn literature:\n\nIn philosophy:\n"}
