{"id": "18333649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18333649", "title": "180-line television system", "text": "180-line television system\n\n180 lines (by modern standards it could be called 169p) is an early electronic television system. It was used in Germany after on March 22, 1935, using telecine transmission of film, intermediate film system, or cameras using the Nipkow disk. Simultaneously, fully electronic transmissions using cameras based on the iconoscope began on January 15, 1936 with a definition of 375 lines.\nThe Berlin Summer Olympic Games were televised, using both closed-circuit 375 lines fully electronic iconoscope-based cameras and 180 lines intermediate film cameras transmitting to Berlin, Hamburg, Munich, Nuremberg and Bayreuth via special Reichspost long distance cables in August 1936. In Berlin, twenty-eight public 180 lines television rooms were opened for anybody who did not own a television set. After February 1937 both 180 and 375 lines systems were replaced by a superior 441-line system.\n\n"}
{"id": "21006141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21006141", "title": "Aunus Radio", "text": "Aunus Radio\n\nAunus Radio was a Finnish radio station operating in an area held by Finland in East Karelia during the continuation war.\n\nFinnish military command was aware of the significant impact radio had on the troops in the front. However, near the eastern border it was impossible to listen to Finnish radio broadcasts due to the distance from the transmitters, and because of Soviet radio jamming. In summer 1941 it was decided that the Army of Karelia should have a radio station of its own.\n\nThe meeting in which Aunus Radio was formed was held on 18 August 1941, in Leppäsyrjä. The newly founded radio station was issued a car and a typewriter. One week later news were circulated about the formation of a new radio station, but due to difficulties with arrangements the opening ceremonies were not held until 1 September 1941, in Vieljärvi. At first, the station only broadcast on Sundays, and the programme was very modest. Yle, the Finnish national broadcasting company, donated 20 records to the new station. When both sides of the records had been played, the station usually broadcast a couple of hours of music.\n\nSoon after being formed Aunus Radio started inviting local talents to host shows. This often meant Finnish soldiers who were singers, humourists or \"seers\". In addition to music, the radio started broadcasting humour and plays. Some speeches were broadcast as well, but these were intentionally kept short to meet the wishes of the front line soldiers. At this time, the station started broadcasting daily up to 15 hours per day, including reports from the front and behind the lines. Overall the programming was aimed at entertaining the troops, with no artistic agenda. Since the station was also intended for the general populace of East Karelia, some of the programs were also broadcast in Vepsian and Karelian. Once Finnish troops conquered Petrozavodsk and renamed it Äänislinna, Aunus Radio moved there.\n\nWhen the war changed into trench warfare, Aunus radio started broadcasting propaganda intended for Soviet troops. The number of staff also increased, and by 1942 the station employed 21 people, including Tauno Palo, nationally famous singer and actor. During the trench warfare Finnish troops were suffering from homesickness, and Aunus Radio successfully relieved this by broadcasting entertainment and information. However, their attempts at propaganda and multi-lingual broadcasts in Vepsian and Karelian were not successful in reaching the target audiences.\n\nOn 16 June 1944 a secret order was issued to the troops in East Karelia to withdraw. Aunus Radio withdrew from Äänislinna with them and settled near Sortavala. However, the station was bombed and the front line came closer, so it was transferred inside the current borders and ended its operations in September 1944.\n\n"}
{"id": "904856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=904856", "title": "Baldur's Gate: Tales of the Sword Coast", "text": "Baldur's Gate: Tales of the Sword Coast\n\nBaldur's Gate: Tales of the Sword Coast is an expansion pack of the fantasy role-playing video game \"Baldur's Gate\". Developed by BioWare and published by Interplay in April 1999, it adds 20 to 30 extra hours of gameplay to the original game, including the addition of four new areas and minor tweaks to some of the mechanics. The expansion consists of four notable quests that take place within the same game world as \"Baldur's Gate\", and sees players taking their character (referred to as the Ward) and their party of companions across the Sword Coast, from travelling to a distant island, to exploring the fortress dungeon of a former dwarf. \"Tales of the Sword Coast\" achieved global sales of 600,000 units by 2003.\n\nWhile the expansion retains the same fundamental gameplay mechanics of \"Baldur's Gate\", and the new areas incorporated into the same world map as the original game, a number of tweaks and improvements were made. These include:\n\n\nIn addition, if the player had completed the original game, the expansion features the option of loading a save game of their player character and their party, placing them within the new settlement of Ulgoth's Beard, where most of the quests begin.\n\n\"Baldur's Gate: Tales of the Sword Coast\" takes place around the same time of the original game, and within the same region of Faerûn. The expansion adds a number of new locations, including the small town Ulgoth's Beard, a mysterious island in the Trackless Sea, the Isle of Ice, and the ruins of Durlag's Tower. While it provides additional side quests, these do not impact the original game's main story, especially if it is ongoing.\n\nTravelling to Ulgoth's Beard, a small town with great adventuring possibilities, a party of adventurers consisting of Gorion's Ward and their companions, meet with a mysterious mage called Shandalar who asks them to recover a cloak of his from the Isle of Ice, before forcefully teleporting them to the island. The Ward's party soon find themselves fighting against those who were trapped on the island's dungeon, eventually recovering the cloak and managing to return with it.\n\nHeading to the town's docks, the party encounters Mendas, a strange man who seeks help for an expedition to track down the ship used by Balduran. After returning with a sea chart that had been found by a local guild in Baldur's Gate, the party travel across the Trackless Sea, only for a storm to shipwreck them on an island. Discovering a village of people living there, the Ward's party learn from the village's chief that they suffer from werewolf attacks, to which the party agree to help deal with them, learning that the creatures reside in the wreck of Balduran's ship. Venturing towards it, the group encounter an elven mage residing in a cave, who reveals the truth behind the incident aboard Baldruan's ship, and that the villagers are not what they seem to be. Defeating what turns out to be wolfweres, the party returns to the village to find that all the villagers were actually werewolves, forcing them to fight through them, including a Loup Garou, in order to escape the island. Returning to Ulgoth's Beard, the group soon learns that Mendas is a werewolf and had sent them out to help him bring back the village chief, his mate, along with the villagers, in order for them to roam free across the Sword Coast. Upon learning of what the Ward did, Mendas transforms into a Loup Garou and attacks the party, but is ultimately defeated.\n\nIn the town's inn, the party encounter a dwarf by the name of Hurgan Stoneblade, who asks them to help him recover an item from the dungeons beneath Durlag's Tower called the Soultaker Dagger. Agreeing to help, the party travel to the ruined tower for a guided tour, just as a powerful Demon Knight claims control over the ruins and its dungeon, forcing the party to fight past several creatures while overcoming the traps and puzzles set up by Durlag, eventually defeating the Demon Knight and recovering the Soultaker. Upon returning to Ulgath's Beard, the group are accosted by a member of a cult, who steals the Soultaker from them. Forced to take it back, the party venture into the cult's hideout, but arrive too late to stop them from summoning demon from the Abyss called Aec' Letec. Bravely fighting it, the party defeat the cult and kill the demon, preventing it from escaping into the rest of the Sword Coast, while ending their final adventure in the town.\n\n\"Tales of the Sword Coast\" went gold on April 26, 1999, and shipped to retailers on May 4.\n\n\"Tales of the Sword Coast\" debuted at #1 on PC Data's computer game sales chart during the May 2–8 period, and held the position the following week, but fell to #6 in its third week. The game remained in the top 10 for the entirety of May, and was the second-best-seller of the month overall, behind \"\". By the week ending June 12, the game had fallen off the weekly charts. However, it finished in 17th place on PC Data's monthly chart for June. In the United States alone, sales of \"Tales of the Sword Coast\" reached 156,000 copies by March 2000.\n\nBy late 2003, global sales of \"Tales of the Sword Coast\" had surpassed 600,000 copies.\n\nThe expansion was critically well received. In the review from \"GameSpot\", the game was found to feature \"some occasionally frustrating battles, adds only minor gameplay enhancements, and takes a few additional liberties with AD&D rules,\" but the new areas and game content were found to be well-designed and interesting. \"Computer Games Strategy Plus\" called it \"a solid add-on to an excellent title\", but complained that glitches occasionally caused the game to crash. According to GameSpy, \"especially for new players, the 'add-in' structure would make an already rich experience richer, improving one's \"Baldur's Gate\" experience immeasurably\".\n\n\"Tales of the Sword Coast\" was a runner-up for \"Computer Games Strategy Plus\"s 1999 \"Add-on of the Year\" and GameSpot's \"Best Expansion Pack\" awards, but lost these prizes to \"\" and \"\", respectively.\n"}
{"id": "42563856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42563856", "title": "Bernardo Neustadt", "text": "Bernardo Neustadt\n\nBernardo Neustadt (pronounced /nɔɪʃtat/) (January 9, 1925 in Iasi, Romania – June 7, 2008 in Martinez, Buenos Aires, Argentina) was an Argentinian journalist born in Romania. For 30 years he was the TV host of the famous \"New Time\" news program.\n\nNeustadt was the first to make political opinion journalism on television in Argentina. During the military dictatorship and democratic governments of Raul Alfonsin and Carlos Menem, he was one of the most influential political journalists in Argentina.\n\nHe was born on January 9, 1925 in Romania, where his father worked at the Argentine Embassy in Bucharest. Six months later, the family settled in Argentina. His was raised as a \"ward\" in Catholic boarding schools.\n\nAt 14 years old, he joined the Editorial Haynes, owner of the newspaper \"El Mundo\". He worked as a sportswriter and directed \"Racing\" magazine.\n\nFor 30 years he was the host of the \"Tiempo Nuevo\" (New Time) news program. His ratings reached 30 points, the highest news program on Argentinian TV. In later years he split with Mariano Grondona and changed the program's name to \"Al Estilo de Bernardo Neustadt\".\n\nNotable interviewees include:\n"}
{"id": "3495354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3495354", "title": "Blackout (broadcasting)", "text": "Blackout (broadcasting)\n\nIn broadcasting, the term blackout refers to the non-airing of television or radio programming in a certain media market.\n\nIt is particularly prevalent in the broadcasting of sports events, although other television or radio programs may be blacked out as well. Most blackout policies serve to protect local broadcasters (primarily regional sports networks) from competition by \"out-of-market\" networks that carry different teams, by only allowing viewers to watch non-national telecasts of teams within their designated markets (with television providers blacking out regional telecasts of teams that are outside their market; in turn, encouraging viewers to purchase subscription-based out-of-market sports packages), and by allowing teams to black out national telecasts of games that are also being shown by a local broadcaster. By contrast, the blackout policies of the National Football League serve to encourage attendance to games instead—by only allowing them to be broadcast on television in a team's designated market if a certain percentage of their tickets are sold prior to the game.\n\nThe term is also used in relation to situations where programming is removed or replaced on international feeds of a television service, because the broadcaster does not hold the territorial rights to air the programs outside of their home country.\n\nPerhaps the most notable non-sports-related blackout in television was the blackout of Canadian federal election coverage. Because there are six time zones across Canada, polls close in different parts of the country at different times. Section 329 of the Canada Elections Act outlawed disseminating election results from other ridings in constituencies where polls were still open, ostensibly to prevent the results from the East from influencing voters in western ridings\n\nHowever, in the federal election in 2000, Paul Charles Bryan published results from Atlantic Canada online despite being told not to by the authorities. Bryan was charged before the Provincial Court of British Columbia, but fought the charges as unconstitutional under section 2 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, which protects freedom of expression and freedom of association. Bryan's victory before the British Columbia Supreme Court meant that voters in British Columbia and the rest of Canada legally learned of election results in other ridings during the federal election in 2004. However, Elections Canada appealed, and Bryan lost his case before the British Columbia Court of Appeal. Bryan further appealed to the Supreme Court of Canada, but in a ruling made on March 15, 2007 (\"R. v. Bryan\"), in a 5-4 ruling, the Court ruled that Section 329 of the Canada Elections Act is constitutional and justified under section 1 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. Stephen Harper, who later became Prime Minister, labelled Elections Canada \"jackasses\" and tried to raise money for Bryan. The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation also supported Bryan, hoping to \"make election night a bigger event that it already is\".\n\nBefore the 2000 election, Elections Canada moved to reduce the effects of the blackout and the influence of unauthorized knowledge of election results in Western ridings by altering the times that polls close, so that polls no longer close at the same local time throughout the country. Polls in Atlantic Canada close at 9 p.m. Atlantic (9:30 in Newfoundland), polls from Alberta to Quebec close an hour later (9 p.m. Eastern, 8 p.m. Central and 7 p.m. Mountain) and finally, polls in British Columbia close an hour after that (7 p.m. Pacific). Historically, the results of the election are often not decisively known until more than an hour after polls close in the Eastern Time Zone, but are usually known within two hours of these polls closing.\n\nProvincial elections are not subject to blackout restrictions – in provinces that have two time zones, the vast majority of the population lives in one time zone or the other. Election laws in these provinces stipulate that all polls are to close at the same time – this time invariably being 8:00 p.m. (or 9:00 p.m. in Ontario beginning with the 2007 provincial election) in the time zone of the majority.\n\nOn August 17, 2011, Elections Canada Chief Electoral Officer Marc Mayrand suggested improvements of the voting system to Parliament; among them were a proposal to remove the blackout rule, citing the expanded use of social media to disseminate results outside radio and television. Mayrand stated that \"the growing use of social media puts in question not only the practical enforceability of the rule, but also its very intelligibility and usefulness in a world where the distinction between private communication and public transmission is quickly eroding. The time has come for Parliament to consider revoking the current rule.\" On January 13, 2012, it was announced that the federal government would introduce legislation that would repeal the blackout rule, citing the increased use of social media. The blackout rule was officially repealed in October 2015, prior to the 2015 Canadian federal election.<\n\nThe Canadian Football League's constitution does provide the option for teams to black out games in their home markets in order to encourage attendance; at one point, the CFL required games to be blacked out within a radius of around the closest over-the-air signal carrying the game, or of the stadium for cable broadcasts (and, for the Saskatchewan Roughriders, the entirety of the province).\n\nThe policy received significant criticism in 2002, when the Hamilton Tiger-Cats' decision to enforce a blackout on a highly anticipated game against the Toronto Argonauts led to it being blacked out across the entire Greater Toronto Area and much of Southern Ontario. The collateral damage was criticized, as the game had major playoff implications, and the range of the blackout was considered too wide for the market.\n\nUnder the league's 2008-2013 contract with TSN, teams were given a cap on the number of blackouts they could impose per-season (with the number varying by media and CFL reports, ranging from 2 for Hamilton and Toronto, and 5 for teams in Western Canada), and final decisions were assigned to the league if at least 90% of tickets were sold out within 48 hours of the game. Although the CFL stated that the league's current contract with TSN (which began in 2014) does allow for blackouts, they have been seldom-used, if not at all.\n\nAs in the U.S., National Hockey League games that are not scheduled as national telecasts by Sportsnet or TVA Sports are broadcast by regional feeds of either Sportsnet, TSN, or RDS (French), and are blacked out for viewers outside the team's home market. Sportsnet's four regional feeds correspond with each of its NHL teams' designated markets; the Ontario and Pacific feeds are designated to the Toronto Maple Leafs, and Vancouver Canucks respectively, while Sportsnet West and its corresponding market (which includes all of Alberta and Saskatchewan) is shared by the Edmonton Oilers and Calgary Flames. Although West is also the main feed for Manitoba, Flames and Oilers games are blacked out there to protect the Winnipeg Jets. As of August 2014, TSN is similarly structured, with the Ottawa Senators on TSN5 (East), Maple Leafs on TSN4 (Ontario), and Jets on TSN3 (Manitoba and Saskatchewan). The Montreal Canadiens were added in 2017 on TSN2 (which was originally promoted as being a secondary national channel). The Canadiens and Senators share the same market, which includes parts of Eastern Ontario (primarily the Ottawa Valley), and the entirety of Quebec and Atlantic Canada, while Saskatchewan is shared by the Jets, Flames, and Oilers.\n\nUntil the 2014-15 season, all French-language broadcasts of the Montreal Canadiens were available nationally on RDS, which was previously the national French-language rightsholder of the NHL in Canada. As RDS was, until 2011, the only French-language cable sports channel in Canada, the team forwent a separate regional rights deal and allowed all of its games to be broadcast as part of the national package. As of the 2014-15 season, Quebecor Media and TVA Sports is the national French rightsholder as part of a sub-licensing agreement with Rogers Communications. RDS negotiated a 12-year deal with the team for regional rights to the Canadiens: games are now blacked out for viewers outside Quebec, Atlantic Canada, and parts of Eastern Ontario.\n\nOut-of-market games can be viewed using the subscription-based NHL Centre Ice and Rogers NHL Live services, although in-market games are blacked out from both services to protect local broadcasters. Rogers NHL Live allows streaming of in-market teams if the user authenticates themselves as a subscriber to Sportsnet and/or TSN.\n\nMany programs carried on Internet television in other parts of the world are not available in Canada because the major broadcast networks in Canada secure the rights to them and prevent Internet television aggregators, one notable example being Hulu, from distributing them in Canada. The National Football League, for example, sold worldwide Internet broadcast rights to a package of its \"Thursday Night Football\" games during the 2016 season to Twitter; however, Rogers Media forced Twitter to block the streams in Canada by virtue of its holding of terrestrial television rights in the country. Numerous organizations have attempted to establish workarounds that route Canadians' Internet traffic through the United States, workarounds that aggregators such as Netflix have actively fought against.\n\nUEFA Article 48.2 and the major association football leagues of the United Kingdom enforce a blackout on all television broadcasts of football between 2:45 p.m. and 5:15 p.m. on Saturday matchdays. This applies to all matches, regardless of whether they are a domestic or international competition. A match which kicks off within the window may be joined in progress after the blackout window ends.\n\nThis policy is ostensibly intended to encourage fans to attend football matches in-person, especially in lower divisions (whose attendance may be cannibalized by the availability of competing top-flight matches on television). The practice originated in the 1960s; Burnley F.C. chairman Bob Lord was opposed to television broadcasts of football matches—going as far as banning the BBC from televising \"Match of the Day\" from Burnley for a time. He pushed the Football League to adopt this stance as an organization-wide policy; it has since been adopted by The FA and the current Premier League (which broke away from the Football League in the 1990s to become the highest level of club football in the UK).\n\nAffected matches can still be broadcast internationally, hence more Premier League matches can be shown outside the United Kingdom by other rightsholders than within. This intricacy created a \"grey market\" for obtaining the broadcasts from alternative sources, such as foreign satellite providers or unofficial online streaming services. The Premier League and other stakeholders have historically considered this practice to be a violation of the copyright of the broadcasts; in 2014, the Premier League briefly restricted MENA region rightsholder beIN Sports to one 3 p.m. match per week on television only, for taking inadequate steps to prevent unauthorized retransmissions from its streaming broadcasts online.\n\nCritics, including Juliane Kokott, have argued that 3 p.m. blackouts are outdated, as its purpose is hindered—especially within the Premier League—by the high demand for the few tickets available to the public, and that there was little evidence that television broadcasts actually affected attendance. To preserve the value of its domestic broadcast rights and allow more games to be televised, the Premier League has added more matches in windows outside of Saturday afternoons, such as weekdays and Sundays—including the final matchday of the season.\n\nIn 2018, after complying by blacking out the first 15 minutes of a Serie A match that saw Cristiano Ronaldo's on-field debut for Juventus F.C., streaming service Eleven Sports UK & Ireland began to defy the ban and show selected Serie A and La Liga matches during this period. On 17 October 2018, Eleven announced that it would cease its telecasts of 3:00 p.m. kickoffs, but argued that the rule was outdated because only the UK and Montenegro have such blackout rules, and that the blackout period encourages illegal streaming. A representative of La Liga has backed Eleven Sports' position.\n\nMajor League Baseball and the National Hockey League have very similar blackout rules. Unlike the National Football League, the blackout of games has nothing to do with attendance, but instead is implemented to protect broadcasters with contracts to air games. Unless a national broadcaster such as Fox or ESPN has exclusive rights to a certain regular season game (as they do on Sunday nights), the local broadcaster of a game (such as a Fox Sports regional network for example) has priority over a national broadcaster—so if Fox Sports 1, MLB Network, or TBS is airing a game that is also being aired by the local broadcaster, the national feed would be blacked out in markets where a local broadcaster is also showing coverage. The blackout rules do not apply during the postseason, as Fox and TBS hold exclusive rights to all games, and there are no regional television broadcasts.\n\nAs of the 2014 MLB season, ESPN's coverage of Monday and Wednesday night games is allowed to co-exist with that of a regional broadcaster, and thus no longer has to be blacked out in the participating teams' markets.\n\nThe NHL utilizes a similar policy of exclusive and non-exclusive national games; NBCSN has an exclusive national window on Wednesday nights (\"Wednesday Night Hockey\"), and the NBC broadcast network typically shows a Sunday-afternoon game of the week during the later portion of the season, along with other marquee games such as the Thanksgiving Showdown (held on the Friday after Thanksgiving) and the NHL Winter Classic and Stadium Series outdoor games. Typically, no other games involving U.S. teams are scheduled to occur at the same time. NHL Network and NBCSN typically broadcast non-exclusive national games outside these windows which are blacked out in the participating teams' markets to protect local broadcasts. All games in the first round of the Stanley Cup playoffs, outside those designated for exclusive broadcast by NBC, are non-exclusive national games. Since 2017, they may now co-exist with national broadcasts on NBCUniversal cable channels and NHL Network.\n\nOut-of-market games can be viewed using the subscription-based MLB Extra Innings, MLB.tv, NHL Center Ice, and NHL.tv services, although in-market games are blacked out from all four services to protect local broadcasters, and they do not offer nationally televised games.\n\nIn Major League Baseball, there are no radio blackouts. However, for many years, the radio networks of the two participating ballclubs in the World Series were not allowed to air games, forcing flagship stations, if they wanted to broadcast the Series, to simulcast the network broadcast.\n\nAs an example, while Boston Red Sox radio flagship WHDH and St. Louis Cardinals flagship station KMOX both broadcast the 1967 World Series, both stations had to simulcast the NBC Radio Network broadcast along with Boston's WCOP and St. Louis's KSD, the nominal NBC Radio affiliates in those cities.\n\nThis changed after 1980, as fans of the Philadelphia Phillies were angry that they could not hear their popular broadcasting team of Harry Kalas and Richie Ashburn call the team's run to the title. Since then, only the flagship stations of the two participating ballclubs can originate coverage, though their broadcasts, as well as the national English and Spanish broadcasts, are also available on Sirius XM. Flagship stations are required to make mention of the presenting sponsor of the national ESPN Radio broadcasts as also sponsoring the team's own broadcasts during the World Series (as of 2016 this is AutoZone). All other network affiliates of the two clubs must carry the feed from MLB's national partner (currently ESPN Radio). If another ESPN Radio affiliate exists in the same market, that station can claim exclusivity, forcing a blackout of the team network affiliate from carrying the game, though this is rarely done as listener pushback against the ESPN Radio affiliate blocking the local play-by-play would likely be untenable (for instance in 2016, ESPN Radio O&O WMVP in Chicago broadcast the national ESPN feed as expected, but made no move to block the official Cubs broadcaster WSCR from carrying local play-by-play, to the point of only mentioning the national coverage existed on their station through promos in national ESPN Radio programming).\n\nAdditionally, radio stations (including flagships) may not include MLB games in the live Internet streams of their station programming. MLB itself offers radio feeds as a pay service via the league and team websites, along with being a part of the monthly premium fee service from streaming provider TuneIn. Some stations will simply stream the station's regularly scheduled programming that is being pre-empted by the game.\n\nThe NHL has no radio blackouts for local broadcasts, although NBC Sports Radio broadcasts are, similarly to some cable broadcasts, not carried within the local markets of participating teams.\n\nPrior to the 1998-99 NBA lockout, the NBA and the WNBA used to black out nationally televised games on cable television within of the home team's market; however, these are now restricted to games on NBA TV, WatchESPN and other streaming providers.\n\nThe NFL has engaged in various blackout policies to protect both local ticket sales, and local rightsholders of specific games.\n\nIn the NFL, any broadcaster that has a signal that hits any area within a radius of an NFL stadium may only broadcast a game if that game is a road game (also known as an away game), or if the game sells out 72 hours or more before the start time for the game. If sold out in less than 72 hours, or is close to being sold out by the deadline, the team can sometimes request a time extension. Furthermore, broadcasters with NFL contracts are required to show their markets' road games, even if the secondary markets have substantial fanbases for other teams (like in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, officially a Baltimore Ravens secondary market, but home to many Pittsburgh Steelers fans). Sometimes if a game is within a few hundred tickets of selling out, a broadcaster with rights to show the nearly sold out game will buy the remaining tickets (and give them to local charities) so it can broadcast the game. Other teams elect to close off sections of their stadium, but cannot sell these tickets for any game that season if they choose to do so. As a result, if the home team's game is a Sunday day game, both networks can air only one game each in that market (until 2000, this rule applied whether or not the game was blacked out; however, this was changed because some markets virtually never aired doubleheaders as a result). Usually, but not always, when each network can show only one game each in a market, the two stations work out between themselves which will show an early game and which will show a late game. This only affects the primary market, and not markets in a radius, which always get a doubleheader each Sunday. For the NFL International Series, the network broadcasting an International Series game will not have the game blacked out for the team's markets as the game is played outside of the United States; however, some blackout regulations do apply.\n\nThere have been two exceptions to the rule, of which one has never been implemented and the other no longer applies. The first is for the Green Bay Packers, which have two overlapping 75-mile blackout zones – one surrounding the team's stadium in Green Bay and another surrounding Milwaukee. The team's radio flagship station is in Milwaukee, and the Packers played part of their home schedule in Milwaukee from 1953 through 1994. However, this policy has never been implemented in the Packers' case, as they have sold out every home game in Green Bay since 1960 and have a decades-long season-ticket waiting list (games in Milwaukee also sold out during this period). The second exception was for the Bills Toronto Series; by a technicality, Rogers Communications (the team's lessee) owned all tickets to those games and resold them to potential fans. Even when Rogers failed to sell all of the tickets, they were still technically defined to be sellouts by the league since Rogers was said to have \"bought\" the tickets. The technicality came into play for both Toronto Series preseason games, and again for the last two regular season games of the series. The Bills Toronto Series was cancelled after the 2013 season, largely due to the aforementioned lackluster attendance.\n\nIn June 2012, NFL blackout regulations were revised in which, for the first time in NFL history, home games would no longer require a total sellout to be televised locally; instead, teams would be allowed to set a benchmark anywhere from 85 to 100 percent of the stadium's non-premium seats. Any seats sold beyond that benchmark will be subject to heavier revenue sharing. However, four teams, the Buffalo Bills, the Cleveland Browns, the Indianapolis Colts and the San Diego Chargers, opted out of the new rules, as it would require the teams to pay a higher percentage of gate fees to the NFL's revenue fund.\n\nIn the 2015 NFL season, the league, after no games were blacked out at all in the 2014 season, voted to \"suspend\" the blackout policy as an experiment. The suspension continued into the 2016 season (a season that included the return of the Rams to the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum on a temporary basis until the new Hollywood Park stadium is built - Memorial Coliseum has had long-standing issues with NFL sell-outs); commissioner Roger Goodell stated that the league needed to further investigate the impact of removing the blackout rules before such a change is made permanent. The suspension quietly continued into the 2017 NFL season as well (which saw the San Diego Chargers also relocate to Los Angeles, temporarily using the 27,000-seat, soccer-specific StubHub Center as an interim venue until the completion of the Hollywood Park stadium, which will be shared with the Rams.\n\nThe suspension came a year after the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) ended a policy that formally forbade multichannel television providers from distributing telecasts of sporting events that had been blacked out by local broadcast television stations. Then-FCC chairman Tom Wheeler considered such policies to be \"obsolete\". The policies are still enforced via contractual agreements between the NFL and its media partners.\n\nPer NFL policies, all games that are exclusively televised on cable channels, including ESPN's \"Monday Night Football\", and \"Thursday Night Football\" games that are only shown on NFL Network, are syndicated to over-the-air broadcasters in the markets of the teams involved, and blacked out on the cable channel in defense of the local simulcast. The local market for these rights is defined as any station within the radius of a team's respective stadium.\n\nThis policy attracted controversy in December 2007, when Hartford, Connecticut CBS affiliate WFSB was refused permission to air the local simulcast of a New England Patriots-New York Giants game on December 29, 2007. The game, which was part of the \"Thursday Night Football\" package on NFL Network, would see the Patriots attempt to become the first NFL team since 1972 and the expansion of the regular season to 16 games, to finish the regular season undefeated. At the time, NFL Network was available only on a sports tier of cable provider Comcast in the immediate viewing areas of the Patriots and Giants. Senator John Kerry and Rep. Ed Markey, both of the state of Massachusetts and fans of the Patriots team, wrote to the NFL as well as Comcast and Time Warner Cable, to request that the Patriots-Giants game be aired at least on basic cable in order to reach the highest possible number of television-viewing fans, citing the \"potentially historic\" nature of the game. Kerry clarified the next week that he did not intend to interrupt current negotiations between the cable operators and NFL.\n\nOn December 19, 2007, representative Joe Courtney (D-CT) and other members of the Connecticut Congressional Delegation wrote to NFL commissioner Roger Goodell to try to have the NFL allow wider broadcast access to the game. Consequently, on December 26, the NFL announced that the game would be additionally aired nationally on CBS and NBC, in addition to WCVB-TV in Boston and WWOR-TV in Secaucus, New Jersey (part of the New York City market).\n\nAlthough NFL Network would later become more established, a goal to increased the perceived profile of the \"Thursday Night Football\" package led the NFL to sub-license a portion of the games, and a co-production agreement for all of them, to CBS in the 2014 season.\n\nFor radio broadcasts, the NFL follows a nearly identical policy to MLB. There are no radio blackouts, but only each team's flagship station can carry local broadcasts during the conference championships or Super Bowl. All other markets must carry the \"NFL on Westwood One\" feed for those games. For all other weeks, within 75 miles of a team's stadium, only stations the team or its flagship station contracts with can carry those games, regardless if the team is home or away. Thus, any competing station that carries Westwood One broadcasts cannot air those games. Like MLB, the NFL makes local broadcasts (except for those of the Tennessee Titans) available on NFL's Game Pass service and Sirius Satellite Radio; as a result, radio stations that carry NFL games, from any source, and stream on the Internet are prohibited from streaming games online, although it seems this provision is loosely enforced in some cases; WBBM in Chicago regularly airs live broadcasts of Chicago Bears games over their Internet stream, as does WTMJ in Milwaukee with the Packers, though both stations went to a desktop-only streaming policy in 2015 due to the introduction of GamePass and the absorption of the NFL Audio Pass streaming system into Game Pass.\n\nMajor League Soccer applies local blackout rights for the broadcasts of the following teams as a part of MLS Direct Kick:\n\nMLS Direct Kick contains MLS games originating from either a regional sports network (RSN) or a local over-the-air station and delivers these games to customers who purchase this subscription. These games are not otherwise available to DirecTV subscribers because they are broadcast outside a subscriber's local area. Further, MLS games shown nationally on ESPN, ESPN2, UniMás and FOX are not included as part of this sports subscription.\n\nThe television broadcast of the Indianapolis 500 is usually blacked out in the Indianapolis area in order to encourage central Indiana residents to attend the race. Thus WTHR, the NBC affiliate in Indianapolis, carries the race tape-delayed in primetime instead.\n\nIn May 2016, as that year's edition neared a complete sell-out, Indianapolis Motor Speedway announced that it would consider lifting the blackout if all tickets were sold out. On May 25, 2016, it was officially announced that all tickets had been sold, and that the race would air live in the Indianapolis market for the first time since 1950. WRTV still carried a primetime encore.\n"}
{"id": "1000685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1000685", "title": "Car chase", "text": "Car chase\n\nA car chase is the vehicular hot pursuit of suspects by law enforcers. The rise of the automotive industry in the 20th century increased car ownership, leading to a growing number of criminals attempting to evade police in their own vehicle or a stolen car. Car chases are often captured on news broadcast due to the video footage recorded by police cars and police and media helicopters participating in the chase. Car chases are also a popular subject with media and audiences due to their intensity and drama and the innate danger of high-speed driving.\n\nCar chases occur when a suspect attempts to use a vehicle to escape from law enforcement attempting to detain or arrest him or her. The assumed offence committed may range from misdemeanours such as traffic infractions to felonies as serious as murder. When suspects realize they have been spotted by law enforcement, they attempt to lose their pursuer by driving away, sometimes at high speed. Generally, suspects whom police spot committing crimes for which long prison terms are likely upon conviction are much more likely to start car chases. In 2002, 700 pursuits were reported in the city of Los Angeles.\n\nLos Angeles television station KCAL reported a quadrupling of ratings when police pursuits aired. Police officials have asked news media to reduce coverage of chases, claiming that they encourage suspects to flee and inciting gawkers to possibly get in the way of the pursuit, while the media responds that coverage of chases provides a public service and provide a deterrent to police brutality.\n\nPolice use a number of techniques to end chases, from pleading with the driver, waiting for the driver's vehicle to run out of fuel, or hoping the driver's vehicle becomes somehow disabled to more forceful methods such as boxing in the vehicle with police cruisers, ramming the vehicle, the PIT maneuver, shooting out the tires, or the use of spike strips, though all efforts, many of which pose risk to all involved as well as bystanders, will be aimed at avoiding danger to civilians. When available, a helicopter may be employed, which in some cases, may follow the vehicle from above while ground units may or may not be involved. The StarChase system as of summer 2009 was in use by the Arizona Department of Public Safety.\n\nThe February 2005 Macquarie Fields riots occurred in Sydney, Australia after a local driver crashed a stolen vehicle into a tree, killing his two passengers following a high-speed police pursuit. The death of university student Clea Rose following a police chase in Canberra sparked major recriminations over police pursuit policies. Ole Christian Bach was found shot and killed in Sweden in a presumed suicide after he had been followed in a car chase by Swedish undercover police.\n\nReality television has combined with the car chase genre in a number of television shows and specials featuring real footage, mostly taken from police cruisers and law enforcement or media helicopters of suspects fleeing police.\n\nOne notable, recorded police chase occurred when an M60 Patton tank was stolen by Shawn Nelson from an Army National Guard armory, on May 17, 1995. Nelson went on a rampage through San Diego, California, with the massive tank crushing multiple civilian vehicles before becoming stuck on a road divider. Police were able to get aboard the tank and open the hatch, killing the suspect when he would not surrender.\n\nOn June 4, 2004, welder Marvin Heemeyer went on a rampage in a heavily modified bulldozer in Granby, Colorado, wrecking 13 buildings including the town hall, the public library, a bank, a concrete batch plant, and a house owned by the town's former mayor, resulting in over $ 7 million in damage. The police were initially powerless, as none of their weapons could penetrate the suspect's vehicle. However, the bulldozer's engine failed and the machine became stuck, so Heemeyer committed suicide by gunshot.\n\nOn July 27, 2007, at exactly 12:46:20 p.m. MST in Phoenix, Arizona, two helicopters crashed in mid air. Both were AS-350 AStar helicopters from KNXV-TV (the area's ABC affiliate) and KTVK (an independent, but was the ABC affiliate until losing it to KNXV in 1995) news stations collided in mid-air above Steele Indian School Park in Phoenix, Arizona while covering a police pursuit. Four people were killed: KTVK pilot Scott Bowerbank and photographer Jim Cox; and pilot Craig Smith and photographer Rick Krolak of KNXV. No one on the ground was injured.\n\nOn September 28, 2012, Fox News aired a live police chase in Arizona which ended in the suspect exiting the vehicle and shooting himself after a short foot chase. Fox News was airing it in a five-second delay instead of a normal ten-second delay, which resulted in the shooting being aired on a live broadcast of the Fox Report. Shepard Smith soon apologized for the broadcast and vowed to never let it happen again.\n\nHigh-speed car chases are recognized as a road safety problem, as vehicles not involved in the pursuit or pedestrians or street furniture may be hit by the elusive driver, who will often violate a number of traffic laws, often repeatedly, in their attempt to escape, or by the pursuing police cars. In the UK, it is estimated that 40 people a year are killed in road traffic incidents involving police, most as a result of a police pursuit. In the United States, chase-related deaths range between 300 and 400 people per year.\n\nKristie's Law is a proposed California law that would restrict immunity for damage (including injuries or deaths) caused by high-speed pursuits, where law enforcement agencies have established, but not followed, written pursuit policies.\n\nIn 2007, the United States Supreme Court held in \"Scott v. Harris\" (550 U.S. 372) that a \"police officer's attempt to terminate a dangerous high-speed car chase that threatens the lives of innocent bystanders does not violate the Fourth Amendment, even when it places the fleeing motorist at risk of serious injury or death.\"\n\nIn most common law jurisdictions, the fireman's rule prevents police officers injured in such pursuits from filing civil lawsuits for monetary damages against the fleeing suspects, because such injuries are supposed to be an inherent risk of the job. Public outrage at such immunity has resulted in statutory exceptions. One example is California Civil Code Section 1714.9 (enacted 1982), which reinstates liability where the suspect knew or should have known that the police were present.\n\nPolicy on what circumstances justify a high-speed pursuit differ by jurisdiction. Some safety advocates want to restrict risky chases to violent felonies. Another option is to use technology to end or avoid the need for such chases. For example, vehicles can be tracked by aircraft or GPS tagging device like StarChase, allowing police agencies to reliably intercept suspects using stationary blockades, lower-speed vehicles, or when the vehicle is parked.\n\nOne particular hazard that is attendant to police pursuits is the problem of multiple law enforcement agencies becoming involved in a car chase that crosses municipal and jurisdictional boundaries. This is often complicated by radio communication incompatibility and policy differences in the various departments involved in a pursuit.\n\nThe city of Dallas, Texas was the first major city in the United States to adopt an \"Inter-Jurisdictional Pursuit Policy\" to address the problems inherent in car chases that involved more that one law enforcement agency. In August 1984, the Dallas Police Department's Planning and Research Division, under the command of Captain Rick Stone, began crafting a policy that more than twenty (20) local law enforcement agencies could agree to abide by when car chases crossed their borders. The result was a model policy that became the standard for use by police departments around the country.\n\nIn Europe, as many national borders no longer have border stations, car chases may sometimes cross national boundaries. States often have agreements in place where the police of one state can continue the chase across the national boundary.\n\nIn film and television, the term \"car chase\" refers to a scene involving one or more automobiles pursuing one another; the chase may or may not involve a police car. Car chases are a staple of the action movie genre, and feature-length films have been built entirely around car chases, often featuring high-powered, exotic vehicles. They are popular because they are fast moving scenes that generate a great deal of excitement and action, due to the speed of the vehicles involved, and the potential collisions and the debris resulting from the wreckage, while not being hugely expensive to stage.\n\nStaging car chase sequences often requires numerous takes and destruction of several vehicles (whether intentional or mishap), giving an incentive for filmmakers to find ways to reduce costs. Hence it is common to use older vehicles are that are 1–2 generations behind the current models on the market, since these can be second-hand acquisitions at low cost due to depreciation. There are some exceptions, if a high-profile vehicle (maybe but not necessarily a halo car) is used and/or if the vehicle manufacturer pays for product placement in a film production (serving as a technical adviser, donating vehicles to be used in filming); examples include the James Bond and Transporter franchises who use current and even concept vehicles.\n\nAlthough car chases on film were staged as early as the motor vehicle itself, the consensus among historians and film critics is that the first modern car chase movie was 1968's \"Bullitt\". The revolutionary 10-minute-long chase scene in \"Bullitt\" was far longer and far faster than what had gone before, and placed cameras so that the audience felt as though they were inside the cars. Even during the most calamitous scenes, the star – Steve McQueen – could be clearly seen at the wheel of the vehicle.\n\n\"The French Connection\" further increased the realism. While previous chases had obviously been filmed on closed roads, isolated highways, or Sunday mornings (including \"Bullitt\"), \"The French Connection\" placed the chase in the midst of busy New York traffic and pedestrians. The producer of both \"Bullitt\" and \"The French Connection\", Philip D'Antoni, went on to direct \"The Seven-Ups\" with yet another trademark chase sequence through New York featuring Roy Scheider from \"The French Connection\" as well as Bill Hickman, one of the drivers who had previously appeared in \"Bullitt\".\n\nAs time went on, so did the expectations of the movie car chase. Since \"Bullitt\", car chases featured in movies have become more advanced and arguably more entertaining. Car crashes have also formed an increasingly important role, with the destruction of any vehicle often coming as a delight to the viewer. An early example of a staged but startling accident in a movie chase can be found in the 1974 movie \"McQ\", which featured an incredible rollover, the first cannon rollover in fact, across a beach. The spectacle came at a cost, however, for stunt driver Hal Needham, who sustained multiple injuries after setting the explosives too high.\n\nEventually this resulted in movies which are not much more than a series of linked car chases, such as the 1974 film \"Gone in 60 Seconds\", which culminated in a 40-minute car chase scene with multiple crashes (some of them unplanned, real accidents) and a 30-foot-high, 128-feet-long airborne jump over crashed cars that block a road.\n\nArguably the most typical car chase is one in which a car is being pursued by police cars. In part because car chases are so common many movie makers try to introduce a new twists to them. One of the most famous variations is from \"The French Connection\" and involves a car chasing an elevated train. Chases involving buses, trucks, snowmobiles, trains, tanks, and virtually every other type of vehicle (with or without wheels) have appeared at some point.\n\nCar chases can also be played for laughs. Films such as \"The Blues Brothers\", \"The Keystone Kops\", W.C. Fields comedies, \"The Three Stooges\", \"It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World\", \"The Shaggy Dog\", \"No Deposit, No Return\", \"Freaky Friday\", \"The Gnome Mobile\", \"The Million Dollar Duck\", \"What's Up, Doc?\", and many others have car chases that are used for comedy.\n\nProbably the most complex type of car chase involves going the wrong way at high speed against moderately congested freeway traffic, most notably in \"To Live and Die in L.A.\" and \"Ronin\" which, by no small coincidence, were directed by William Friedkin (\"The French Connection\") and John Frankenheimer (\"French Connection II\"), respectively.\n\nSeveral films that feature complex large-scale chases involving a lot of vehicles in the pursuit include \"The Blues Brothers\", \"The Transporter\", \"Raiders of the Lost Ark\",\" The Road Warrior\", and \"The Fast and the Furious\" series. Another method of escalating a car chase scene is to have a character move from one vehicle to another and to fight in or on top of a moving vehicle as the Wachowskis employed very effectively in \"The Matrix Reloaded\".\n\nA number of television shows have been built around the popularity of car chases, such as \"CHiPs\", \"The Dukes of Hazzard\", \"Knight Rider\", \"Airwolf\", and most recently, \"Chase\".\n\nIn more modern times, the use of computer-generated imagery is becoming increasingly popular, and, although costly, eliminates any danger level. While impressive at times, it is often argued that it eliminates the realism of the chase scene, which can then in turn damage the established thrill factor. Recent examples of this computer-generated imagery can be found in the Michael Bay films \"Bad Boys II\" and \"The Island\". An example of a lower budget film using computer-generated imagery in a car chase is \"\". \"Driven\" was particularly panned for its CGI car chase sequences. Such criticism has affected recent Hollywood productions; for example, films like \"Ronin\", \"The Bourne Supremacy\", \"The Kingdom\", and \"The Dark Knight\" all had actual live-action chases with minimal use of CGI, if at all.\n\nIn the action comedy film \"Hot Fuzz\", the scene in which Sergeant Angel chases the speeding car has been declared the shortest car chase in film history. The brevity of the scene, as acknowledged in interviews, was itself the joke.\n\nCertain racing computer and video games with police cars have car chase (pursuit) racing/evasion modes. Notable examples of such games include the following:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4971322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4971322", "title": "Charles Coborn", "text": "Charles Coborn\n\nColin Whitton McCallum (4 August 1852 – 23 November 1945), known by his stage name Charles Coborn, was a British music hall singer and comedian. In a long career, Coborn was known largely for two comic songs: \"Two Lovely Black Eyes\", and \"The Man Who Broke the Bank at Monte Carlo.\"\n\nHe was born in Stepney, east London, and adopted his stage name from Coborn Road, near Mile End. He made his music hall debut on the Isle of Dogs in 1872, and by 1879 was being billed at the Oxford Music Hall in London as \"The Comic of the Day\". In 1886, he heard American William J. Scanlan's song \"My Nellie's Blue Eyes\". Liking the melody but not the words, Coborn rewrote it as \"Two Lovely Black Eyes\", and began performing it regularly wearing a faded frock coat, carrying a battered umbrella and with two blackened eyes. He premièred it at the Paragon Theatre, in the Mile End Road, and the song was instantly successful.\n\nIn 1891, he bought the rights to Fred Gilbert's song, \"The Man Who Broke the Bank at Monte Carlo\". When Gilbert first offered the song, Coborn was reluctant to adopt it. In his autobiography he stated: \"[I] liked the tune very much, especially the chorus, but I was rather afraid that some of the phrasing was rather too highbrow for an average music hall audience.\" But when he found that he could not get the chorus out of his head, he changed his mind. The song became a staple of his act, and he performed it on tour in different languages throughout the world. Coborn later estimated that he had performed the song 250,000 times in the course of his career, and could sing it in 14 languages. Coborn confirmed that Gilbert's inspiration was the gambler and confidence trickster Charles Wells, who was reported to have won one-and-a-half million francs at the Monte Carlo casino, using the profits from previous fraud.\n\nCoborn's other, less successful, songs included \"Should Husbands Work?\", in which he took up the music hall tradition of (normally conservative) social comment; \"I've Loved Another Girl Since Then\"; \"He's All Right When You Know Him\"; and \"I've Never Turned Money Away\", which created controversy when Coborn performed it in the stereotyped manner of a Jew in a Jewish-owned theatre. He apologised afterwards, but was banned from appearing at the venue again.\n\nHe toured extensively, and performed in New York City and Toronto in 1900. Described as a 'literate man of high principles', he was never fully accepted by the music hall establishment, but undertook much charitable work in the First World War and later in efforts to improve the conditions of music hall entertainers. He continued to make occasional appearances, including a performance in the 1943 film \"Variety Jubilee\" at the age of 91. He died in London in 1945. He is buried with his wife in Brompton Cemetery, London.\n\nRecordings that he made in the 1920s can be found on the \"Chairman's Choice - Music Hall Greats\" album.\n\nHis eldest son, Major Duncan McCallum, became MP for Argyll.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1693839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1693839", "title": "Cognitive Constraints on Compositional Systems", "text": "Cognitive Constraints on Compositional Systems\n\nFred Lerdahl's \"Cognitive Constraints on Compositional Systems\" cites Pierre Boulez's \"Le Marteau sans Maître\" (1955) as an example of \"a huge gap between compositional system and cognized result,\" though he \"could have illustrated just as well with works by Milton Babbitt, Elliott Carter, Luigi Nono, Karlheinz Stockhausen, or Iannis Xenakis\". (In semiological terms, this is a gap between the esthesic and poietic processes.) To explain this gap, and in hopes of bridging it, Lerdahl proposes the concept of a musical grammar, \"a limited set of rules that can generate indefinitely large sets of musical events and/or their structural descriptions.\" He divides this further into compositional grammar and listening grammar, the latter being one \"more or less unconsciously employed by auditors, that generates mental representations of the music\". He divides the former into natural and artificial compositional grammars. While the two have historically been fruitfully mixed, a natural grammar arises spontaneously in a culture while an artificial one is a conscious invention of an individual or group in a culture; the gap can arise only between listening grammar and artificial grammars. To begin to understand the listening grammar Lerdahl and Ray Jackendoff created a theory of musical cognition, \"A Generative Theory of Tonal Music\" (1983; ). That theory is outlined in the essay. Lerdahl's constraints on artificial compositional grammars are:\n\n\n\n\nHe concludes, \"Some of these constraints seem to me binding, others optional. Constraints 9-12 are essential for the very existence of stability conditions. Constraints 13-17, on the other hand, can be variously jettisoned.\" Examples given are South Indian music, which doesn't modulate and isn't equally tempered (13 & 14), and music such as that of Claude Debussy, Béla Bartók, and others who \"have developed consonance-dissonance patterns directly from the total chromatic\" (14-17).\n\n\nTo these ends he proposes the use of the terms \"complexity\" and \"complicatedness\", complexity being hierarchical structural richness, and complicatedness being \"numerous non-redundant events per unit time.\" On Lerdahl's view complexity has aesthetic value, while complicatedness is neutral. He writes, \"All sorts of music satisfy these criteria — for example, Indian raga, Japanese koto, jazz, and most Western art music. Rock music fails on grounds of insufficient complexity. Much contemporary music pursues complicatedness as compensation for a lack of complexity. In short, these criteria allow for infinite variety but only along certain lines.\"\n\n\"I find this conclusion both exciting and — initially at least — alarming...the constraints are tighter than I bargained for.\"\n\n\"My second aesthetic claim in effect rejects this [\"progressivist\"] attitude in favor of the older view that music-making should be based on \"nature\". For the ancients, nature may have resided in the music of the spheres, but for us it lies in the musical mind.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "7190206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7190206", "title": "Constable Care", "text": "Constable Care\n\nOriginally conceived in 1989, the Constable Care Child Safety Foundation is a not for profit community organisation working in partnership with the Western Australia Police, to educate children and young people in primary and secondary schools across the State about safety, crime prevention, ethics and good decision making. Constable Care is a nationally registered harm prevention charity and utilises theatre-in-education, and in particular applied theatre, to deliver its education messages.\n\nThe Constable Care Child Safety Foundation tours throughout Western Australia delivering interactive theatre workshops, plays and puppet theatre programs. Based in Maylands, Western Australia, the organisation employs professional actors who visit over 700 schools a year including remote indigenous community schools. The performances are supported by curriculum-linked classroom resources and tailored to the learning needs of students from pre-primary to Year 12, covering topics such as bullying, alcohol and drug abuse, protective behaviours, cultural understanding, road safety, violence prevention and mental health. Students' change in knowledge, attitude and behavioural intent towards each topic is measured pre and post performance incursion through teacher-administered surveys developed through Constable Care's ongoing research partnerships.\n\nAs of December 2016, well over 2.5 million Western Australian children had participated in a Constable Care performance, with around 100,000 students taking part each year. The Constable Care brand celebrated its 25th anniversary in 2014 and has now performed for three generations of WA children. In July 2018, the foundation launched a road safety app for students.\n\nIn late 2013 Constable Care launched its youth brand Theatrical Response Group (TRG), a tongue-in-cheek nod to the organisation's long standing connection with WA Police. TRG Theatrical Response Group undertakes theatre workshops in WA's secondary schools using applied theatre techniques to involve students in discussion and problem-solving on serious youth issues such as cyberbullying, relationship violence and alcohol and drug abuse. The organisation uses the Forum theatre approach developed by Brazilian Augusto Boal as its methodology for engaging students, and undertakes a significant number of touring workshops as well as a smaller number of in-residence extended school interventions each year. In September 2014 the organisation commecned delivering this program in remote Aboriginal schools in the Pilbara region, placing indigenous actors and facilitators in classrooms to work with students for up to 2 weeks at a time. The organisation now delivers a significant number of these \"TRG Intensive\" programs in both Perth metropolitan and remote secondary schools each year.\n\nThe Constable Care mascots can be seen at upwards of 60 community events across Perth and Western Australia each year, including Telethon events, the Perth Christmas Pageant, Perth Royal Show, Mandurah Crab Fest, Joondalup Festival and many other metropolitan and regional events. The non-speaking mascot's role is to interact with children and families at events to provide a positive first experience of police for young children. The mascots and a trained helper undertake event walkarounds, stopping for photographs and giving away handouts such as stickers and cardboard police hats. At larger events such as the Telethon Kids Carnival, the mascot takes part in safety-themed song and dance performances on stage with actors from the Constable Care Performance Company. The Constable Care mascot was recognised at a ceremony in June 2014 at the Western Australian Police Academy for 25 years of service to the WA community, receiving the regimental number 12020 and the status of Senior Constable. At a ceremony in August 2014, then Commissioner of WA Police Karl O'Callaghan presented the Constable Care mascot with a 25-year service medal. In May 2016 Western Australia Police filmed a video featuring the Constable Care mascot dancing with uniformed officers as part of the worldwide online Running Man Challenge. The video was published on the WA Police Facebook page and has been watched over 1.3 million times. In September 2017, in recognition of Western Australian Police 100 Years of Women in Policing celebrations, a new female mascot Constable Clare was introduced to complement the existing Constable Care mascot.\n\nThe Constable Care Child Safety Foundation provides lost child services at the Perth Christmas Pageant, Mandurah Crab Fest, City of Perth Skyworks, Perth's Anzac Day ceremonies, Western Australia Day celebrations and many other family-oriented community events in Western Australia. The service distributes contact information stickers or armbands to families arriving at events so they can be quickly reunited with their children should they become separated, and also provides highly visible staffed family meeting points within the event to locate missing children rapidly and with a minimum of trauma.\n\nIn 2014 Constable Care launched a Comfort Packs program in partnership with Western Australia Police. The program aims to supply frontline emergency service workers with care packs to give to children who are being temporarily relocated from their homes due to accident, emergency or increasingly as a result of crimes such as domestic violence. The backpacks are age and gender appropriate and contain necessities such as pyjamas, underwear, toothbrush and paste, soap, shampoo and conditioner, hair brush, story book, teddy bear, etc. They are available at no cost to WA Police, Fire and Emergency Services and Child Protection workers and are delivered wherever required in the State. As of December 2016, the organisation had provided over 1,300 comfort packs to children statewide.\n\nIn 2011, the organisation released \"Constable Care and the A-Grades\" debut single, entitled Merry Christmas, which achieved over 20,000 views on YouTube in its first month. This was the organisation's first foray into film making and was followed by two further Christmas videos in 2012 and 2013. The organisation started working in partnership in 2014 with Edith Cowan University WA Screen Academy on a series of online interactive youth crime prevention films under the banner \"Your Call\", with the first (#Emilywasted) on binge drinking among teenage girls released in June 2015. Three further interactive films on young male aggression (Shirtfront), car theft (Wreck) and mental health and drug use (Pressure) were released in September 2015, December 2015 and January 2016 respectively. In 2016 the organisation introduced a secondary schools' competition process for Year 10-12 students to identify the storyline for each new film, with the winning entry then developed into the interactive film. In 2017 the organisation joined forces with the Western Australia Police SAY student film making contest to run a combined secondary school competition under a new \"Your Say, Your Call\" banner that allows students to create a short film of their own for judging, with the winning entry then developed into the interactive film. The winning film submission for 2017 \"Bottled Up\" was developed by Edith Cowan University WA Screen Academy for both 360 degree virtual reality and traditional film mediums.\n\nConstable Care commenced planning in late 2012 to build and operate a road and transport safety experiential learning centre for children aged 4–11 years at its site in Maylands. Thanks to the support of Lotterywest and a number of corporate sponsors, the 3,500 sqm centre was completed and opened in July 2017 and now provides a fully functioning urban streetscape for practical bike and pedestrian skills education. The centre includes working traffic signalling, rail crossing, school zone and scale buildings, a bus and train, a rail platform and working pedestrian crossing. It also incorporates an augmented reality experience on iPad minis that enables children to identify and resolve pedestrian, bike and public transport safety risks overlaid on the environment, with results tracked in real time and linked to WA curriculum education outcomes. The $1.7 million Constable Care Safety School has been operating for primary school excursion groups since October 2017, and opened for family school holiday bookings in January 2018, with up to 20,000 children and adults expected to attend each year.\n\nConstable Care has three official patrons who attend its events and provide advice and support to the organisation. They are Commissioner of WA Police Chris Dawson, Western Australian Chief Justice Wayne Martin and actor and comedian Peter Rowsthorn.\n\nThe Board of Constable Care constitutes individuals drawn from business, academia, government, education, marketing, media, the arts and community services. The current Board Chair is Professor Carolyn Dickie, Deputy Pro Vice-Chancellor of Curtin University Business School.\n\nDavid Gribble is the chief executive officer of the Constable Care Child Safety Foundation Incorporated. He took over from former CEO Vick Evans in January 2011.\n\nTelevision personality Rove McManus was once a Constable Care performer, as was film actor Mahesh Jadu.\n\nVick Evans was the chief executive officer of the Constable Care Child Safety Foundation Incorporated for 14 years from 1998 to early 2011. He was credited with generating corporate support and securing ongoing government funding for the program. Vick Evans was diagnosed with motor neurone disease in 2010 and died in April 2011. He was succeeded by current CEO, David Gribble.\n\n"}
{"id": "6912622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6912622", "title": "David Copperfield's laser illusion", "text": "David Copperfield's laser illusion\n\nDavid Copperfield's laser illusion is an illusion performed by David Copperfield in several magic shows. The magician or his assistant is cut by a \"laser\" into two or more parts and starts walking.\n\nAs performed during the 2001 TV special \"Copperfield: Tornado of Fire\", Copperfield was \"cut in half\" by his assistant or assistants, wielding the laser beam. Sparks and flames flew where the beam \"hits\" his body. Copperfield then demonstrated to the audience that he was truly in two pieces by lowering the top half of his body onto a chair while the lower half of his body (waist down) remained visibly standing. As the finale, Copperfield, still separated from the waist, held on to his legs as he walked and hopped to the front of the stage, where he lifted the upper half of his body onto the bottom half and \"re-connected\" himself.\n\nThe illusion is not currently featured in the live performances of David Copperfield, who rotates effects in and out of his repertoire as new material evolves and is developed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12828675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12828675", "title": "Diggles: The Myth of Fenris", "text": "Diggles: The Myth of Fenris\n\nDiggles: The Myth Of Fenris (also known as just Diggles in the North American version, and Wiggles in the European version) is a game released by Innonics in Europe on September 27, 2001, and by Strategy First in North America on March 20, 2002. The game is a side-scrolling strategy game which is based on a 3D-engine. You are guiding your dwarves, called \"diggles\" in the English version, \"Wiggles\" in the German version and \"Gnomy\" in the Russian version. The dwarves can manufacture tools, weapons, rooms and other advanced manufacturing shops (as part of a moderately large technology tree). You can set up your workshops and rooms in the caves that your dwarves have been digging. Your mission is to dig down and solve quests which contribute to your global quest, which is to chain Fenris, the fiery dog of Odin. You encounter other clans and creatures on the way, some hostile, some not.\n\nSince your dwarves have a limited lifespan, most of the development is in equipment, while your individual dwarves develop their skills during their lifetime, passing on only a small portion to their offspring. Digging bigger caves also helps you to place the many workshops, rooms and equipment that you will gather.\n\nYour dwarves usually act in automatic planning mode, which means they will figure out themselves how to get stuff done. This means you can both set goals (like \"dig here\" or \"make food\") or you can order individual dwarves around. Your dwarves will get upset if they work too long and don't get enough fun out of their free time, so you will have to provide them with sane working hours and entertainment in their free time.\n\nThe game was published by Innonics GmbH in 2001, while the software was developed by SEK-ost, Berlin.\n\n\nThe game received \"mixed\" reviews according to the review aggregation website Metacritic. Reviewers cited technical/graphic issues, AI/Pathing problems, the user-interface design, slow pace, and excessive micro-management among others. \"Diggles\" failed to sell well. Despite that, the game still has a small fanbase.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "60980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=60980", "title": "Digital Visual Interface", "text": "Digital Visual Interface\n\nDigital Visual Interface (DVI) is a video display interface developed by the Digital Display Working Group (DDWG). The digital interface is used to connect a video source, such as a video display controller, to a display device, such as a computer monitor. It was developed with the intention of creating an industry standard for the transfer of digital video content.\n\nThe interface is designed to transmit uncompressed digital video and can be configured to support multiple modes such as DVI-A (analog only), DVI-D (digital only) or DVI-I (digital and analog). Featuring support for analog connections, the DVI specification is compatible with the VGA interface. This compatibility, along with other advantages, led to its widespread acceptance over competing digital display standards Plug and Display (P&D) and Digital Flat Panel (DFP). Although DVI is predominantly associated with computers, it is sometimes used in other consumer electronics such as television sets and DVD players.\n\nDVI's digital video transmission format is based on panelLink, a serial format developed by Silicon Image that utilizes a high-speed serial link called transition minimized differential signaling (TMDS). Like modern analog VGA connectors, the DVI connector includes pins for the display data channel (DDC). A newer version of DDC called DDC2 allows the graphics adapter to read the monitor's extended display identification data (EDID). If a display supports both analog and digital signals in one DVI-I input, each input method can host a distinct EDID. Since the DDC can only support one EDID, this can be a problem if both the digital and analog inputs in the DVI-I port detect activity. It is up to the display to choose which EDID to send.\n\nWhen a source and display are connected, the source first queries the display's capabilities by reading the monitor EDID block over an I²C link. The EDID block contains the display's identification, color characteristics (such as gamma level), and table of supported video modes. The table can designate a preferred mode or native resolution. Each mode is a set of CRT timing values that define the duration and frequency of the horizontal/vertical sync, the positioning of the active display area, the horizontal resolution, vertical resolution, and refresh rate.\n\nFor backward compatibility with displays using analog VGA signals, some of the contacts in the DVI connector carry the analog VGA signals. To ensure a basic level of interoperability, DVI compliant devices are required to support one baseline video mode, \"low pixel format\" (640 × 480 at 60 Hz). Digitally encoded video pixel data is transported using multiple TMDS links. At the electrical level, these links are highly resistant to electrical noise and other forms of analog distortion.\n\nA single link DVI connection consists of four TMDS links; each link transmits data from the source to the device over one twisted wire pair. Three of the links represent the RGB components (red, green, and blue) of the video signal for a total of 24 bits per pixel. The fourth link carries the pixel clock. The binary data is encoded using 8b10b encoding. DVI does not use packetization, but rather transmits the pixel data as if it were a rasterized analog video signal. As such, the complete frame is \"drawn\" during each vertical refresh period. The full active area of each frame is always transmitted without compression. Video modes typically use horizontal and vertical refresh timings that are compatible with CRT displays, though this is not a requirement. In single-link mode, the maximum pixel clock frequency is 165 MHz that supports a maximum resolution of 2.75 megapixels (including blanking interval) at 60 Hz refresh. For practical purposes, this allows a maximum 16:10 screen resolution of 1920 × 1200 at 60 Hz.\n\nTo support higher-resolution display devices, the DVI specification contains a provision for dual link. Dual-link DVI doubles the number of TMDS pairs, effectively doubling the video bandwidth. As a result, higher resolutions up to 2560 × 1600 are supported at 60 Hz.\n\nThe maximum length recommended for DVI cables is not included in the specification, since it is dependent on the pixel clock frequency. In general, cable lengths up to will work for display resolutions up to 1920 × 1200. Longer cables up to in length can be used with display resolutions 1280 × 1024 or lower. For greater distances, the use of a DVI booster—a signal repeater which may use an external power supply—is recommended to help mitigate signal degradation.\n\nThe DVI connector on a device is given one of three names, depending on which signals it implements:\n\nMost DVI connector types – the exception being DVI-A – contain pins that pass digital video signals. These come in two varieties: single link and dual link. Single link DVI employs a single 165 MHz transmitter that supports resolutions up to 1920 × 1200 at 60 Hz. Dual link DVI adds six additional pins (located in the center of the connector) for a second transmitter increasing the bandwidth and supporting resolutions up to 2560 × 1600 at 60 Hz. A connector with these additional pins is sometimes referred to as DVI-DL (dual link). Dual link should not be confused with \"dual display\" (also known as \"dual head\"), which is a configuration consisting of a single computer connected to two monitors, sometimes using a DMS-59 connector for two single link DVI connections.\n\nIn addition to digital, some DVI connectors also have pins that pass an analog signal, which can be used to connect an analog monitor. The analog pins are the four that surround the flat blade on a DVI-I or DVI-A connector. A VGA monitor, for example, can be connected to a video source with DVI-I through the use of a passive adapter. Since the analog pins are directly compatible with VGA signaling, passive adapters are simple and cheap to produce, providing a cost-effective solution to support VGA on DVI. The long flat pin on a DVI-I connector is wider than the same pin on a DVI-D connector, so even if the four analog pins were manually removed, it still wouldn't be possible to connect a male DVI-I to a female DVI-D. It is possible, however, to join a male DVI-D connector with a female DVI-I connector.\n\nDVI is the only widespread video standard that includes analog and digital transmission options in the same connector. Competing standards are exclusively digital: these include a system using low-voltage differential signaling (LVDS), known by its proprietary names FPD-Link (flat-panel display) and FLATLINK; and its successors, the LVDS Display Interface (LDI) and OpenLDI.\n\nSome DVD players, HDTV sets, and video projectors have DVI connectors that transmit an encrypted signal for copy protection using the High-bandwidth Digital Content Protection (HDCP) protocol. Computers can be connected to HDTV sets over DVI, but the graphics card must support HDCP to play content protected by digital rights management (DRM).\n\n\nGeneralized Timing Formula (GTF) is a VESA standard which can easily be calculated with the Linux gtf utility. Coordinated Video Timings-Reduced Blanking (CVT-RB) is a VESA standard which offers reduced horizontal and vertical blanking for non-CRT based displays.\n\nOne of the purposes of DVI stream encoding is to provide a DC-balanced output link that reduces decoding errors. This goal is achieved by using 10-bit symbols for 8-bit or less characters and using the extra bits for the DC balancing.\n\nLike other ways of transmitting video, there are two different regions: the active region, where pixel data is sent, and the control region, where synchronization signals are sent. The active region is encoded using transition-minimized differential signaling, where the control region is encoded with a fixed 8b/10b encoding. As the two schemes yield different 10-bit symbols, a receiver can fully differentiate between active and control regions.\n\nWhen DVI was designed, most computer monitors were still of the cathode ray tube type that require analog video synchronization signals. The timing of the digital synchronization signals matches the equivalent analog ones, making the process of transforming DVI to and from an analog signal a process that does not require extra (high-speed) memory, expensive at the time.\n\nHDCP is an extra layer that transforms the 10-bit symbols before sending through the link. Only after correct authorization can the receiver undo the HDCP encryption. Control regions are not encrypted in order to let the receiver know when the active region starts.\n\nThe DVI data channel operates at a bit-rate that is 10 times the frequency of the clock signal. In other words, in each DVI clock period there is a 10 bit symbol per channel. The set of three 10 bit symbols represents one complete pixel in single link mode and can represent either one or two complete pixels as a set of six 10 bit symbols in dual link mode.\n\nDVI links provide differential pairs for data and for the clock. The specification document allows the data and the clock to not be aligned. However, as the ratio between clock and bit rate is fixed at 1:10, the unknown alignment is kept over time. The receiver must recover the bits on the stream using any of the techniques of clock/data recovery and find then the correct symbol boundary. The DVI specification allows the input clock to vary between 25 MHz and 165 MHz. This 1:6.6 ratio can make pixel recovery difficult, as phase-locked loops, if used, need to work over a large frequency range. One benefit of DVI over other links is that it is relatively straightforward to transform the signal from the digital domain into the analog one using a video DAC, as both clock and synchronization signals are sent over the link. Fixed frequency links, like DisplayPort, need to reconstruct the clock from the data sent over the link.\n\nThe DVI specification includes signaling for reducing power consumption. Similar to the analog VESA display power management signaling (DPMS) standard, a connected device can turn a monitor off when the connected device is powered down, or programmatically if the display controller of the device supports it. Devices with this capability can also attain Energy Star certification.\n\nThe analog section of the DVI specification document is brief and points to other specifications like VESA VSIS for electrical characteristics and GTFS for timing information. The idea of the analog link is to keep compatibility with the previous VGA cables and connectors. HSync, Vsync and three video channels are available in both VGA and DVI connectors and are electrically compatible. Auxiliary links like DDC are also available. A passive adapter can be used in order to carry the analog signals between the two connectors.\n\nHDMI is a newer digital audio/video interface developed and promoted by the consumer electronics industry. DVI and HDMI have the same electrical specifications for their TMDS and VESA/DDC links. However HDMI and DVI differ in several key ways.\n\n\nTo promote interoperability between DVI-D and HDMI devices, HDMI source components and displays support DVI-D signalling. For example, an HDMI display can be driven by a DVI-D source because HDMI and DVI-D both define an overlapping minimum set of supported resolutions and frame buffer formats.\n\nSome DVI-D sources use non-standard extensions to output HDMI signals including audio (e.g. ATI 3000-series and NVIDIA GTX 200-series). Some multimedia displays use a DVI to HDMI adapter to input the HDMI signal with audio. Exact capabilities vary by video card specifications.\n\nIn the reverse scenario, a DVI display that lacks optional support for HDCP might be unable to display protected content even though it is otherwise compatible with the HDMI source. Features specific to HDMI such as remote control, audio transport, xvYCC and deep color are not usable in devices that support only DVI signals. HDCP compatibility between source and destination devices is subject to manufacturer specifications for each device.\n\n\nIn December 2010, Intel, AMD, and several computer and display manufacturers announced they would stop supporting DVI-I, VGA and LVDS-technologies from 2013/2015, and instead speed up adoption of DisplayPort and HDMI. They also stated: \"Legacy interfaces such as VGA, DVI and LVDS have not kept pace, and newer standards such as DisplayPort and HDMI clearly provide the best connectivity options moving forward. In our opinion, DisplayPort 1.2 is the future interface for PC monitors, along with HDMI 1.4a for TV connectivity\".\n\n"}
{"id": "42390482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42390482", "title": "Elements Music", "text": "Elements Music\n\nElements Music is an independent music publishing and producer management company based in Helsinki, Finland. \n\nElements Music has had a multitude of number one albums and singles domestically as well as internationally and has been awarded the \"Music Publisher of the Year\" prize in 2014, 2015 and 2016 at the annual Industry Awards. International artists who have recorded songs published by Elements Music include Pentatonix, Lost Frequencies, Alle Farben, Jake Miller, Tiffany Gia, Michael Schulte, Jolin Tsai, Kara, Shinee ja Sean Kingston and, for example, Robin, Isac Elliot, Anna Abreu, Antti Tuisku, Mikael Gabriel, Suvi Teräsniska in Finland.\n\nThe company's offices are located at The Grind Studios and is owned and run by the CEO, Tommi Tuomainen and A&R, Eero Tolppanen. The company's housewriter roster currently consists of the following artists, writers and producers:\n\nArtists\n\nWriters\n\nProducers\n"}
{"id": "9492451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9492451", "title": "FM broadcasting in Australia", "text": "FM broadcasting in Australia\n\nFM broadcasting started in Australian capital cities in 1947 on an \"experimental\" basis, using a (monaural) ABC national network feed, consisting largely of classical music and Parliament, as a programme source.\nFM receivers were expensive and the audience consisted largely of hi-fi enthusiasts.\nThe transmitters (operated by the PMG's Dept) were shut down in 1961, as much of the standard FM band (98–108 MHz) was reserved for TV channel 5 (102.250 video carrier).\nIt had been envisaged that FM broadcasting would take place on UHF but this idea was abandoned as impractical and uneconomic, and following a decision by the reformist Whitlam government, in 1975 Australia's FM band was opened, aligned with most of the rest of the world.\n\nDuring the 1980s, much of the band was still occupied by a few television transmitters, but by the 1990s these had been reallocated to other bands, and are now closed, along with all other analog broadcast TV services, following the advent of digital television. As AM/FM portable and car radios displaced AM-only receivers, conversion to FM-stereo became progressively more attractive to broadcasters, and the swing to FM with its superior sound quality and immunity from interference, was under way.\nMany AM stations transferred to FM, with its lower costs, and many new services were opened. Today, as elsewhere in the developed world, most Australian broadcasting is on FM - although AM talk stations are still very popular and high-power AM transmitters, both national and commercial, are valued by travellers and country listeners, and in emergency situations.\n\nThe FM band was potentially susceptible to interference from these TV stations (obsolete; of historic interest only).\n"}
{"id": "49249357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49249357", "title": "Famous (Kanye West song)", "text": "Famous (Kanye West song)\n\n\"Famous\" is a song by American rapper Kanye West. It serves as the lead single from his seventh studio album \"The Life of Pablo\" (2016). The song features uncredited vocals from Barbadian singer Rihanna and ad-libs from American hip hop artist Swizz Beatz, and enlists samples of Jamaican singer Sister Nancy, American singer Nina Simone and Italian band Il Rovescio Della Medaglia.\nThe single was serviced to US urban and rhythmic radio stations on April 1, 2016.\n\nUpon its release, \"Famous\" was met with both critical acclaim and scrutiny for a controversial lyrical reference to American singer Taylor Swift, partially in relation to West's interruption of her 2009 VMA acceptance speech. After West claimed to have obtained Swift's approval over the criticized lyric, Swift denied the claim, criticizing West and denouncing the lyric as \"misogynistic\" in a statement. Several months later, West's wife Kim Kardashian released a video capturing a conversation between Swift and West in which Swift appears to approve the lyric.\n\nIn June 2016, West released a music video for \"Famous\" depicting wax figures of West, Swift, Kardashian, George W. Bush, Donald Trump, Anna Wintour, Rihanna, Chris Brown, Ray J, Amber Rose, Caitlyn Jenner, and Bill Cosby all sleeping nude in a shared bed. It was released to a polarized response. The wax figures used in the video were later exhibited as a sculpture. The song was nominated for Best Rap/Sung Performance and Best Rap Song at the 59th Annual Grammy Awards.\n\n\"Famous\" features a segue from \"braggadocious, bell-ringing hip-hop\" into samples of Sister Nancy's dancehall song \"Bam Bam\" chopped up over the chord progression featured in Nina Simone's \"Do What You Gotta Do\". After the initial release of \"The Life of Pablo\", \"Famous\" was among the several tracks to receive alterations in West's March 2016 update of the album; changes included a different mix and slightly altered lyrics.\n\n\"Famous\" was well received by music critics. For the \"Chicago Tribune\", Greg Kot called the song \"an example of just how brilliant and infuriating West can be at the same time,\" noting its controversial Taylor Swift-referencing lyric while going on to praise the production and Rihanna's guest vocals. Jayson Greene of \"Pitchfork\" wrote that the controversial lyric \"feels like a piece of bathroom graffiti made to purposefully reignite the most racially-charged rivalry in 21st-century pop.\" \"The Guardian\"'s Alexis Petridis described the song's position on \"The Life of Pablo\" as being: 'a flatly fantastic piece of music that may be the best thing on the album'.\n\n\"Time\" staff named \"Famous\" one of the best songs of the year 2016 and wrote of it that: \"Kanye West is a genius musician and a world-class provocateur, and \"Famous\" is yet another piece of proof those two qualities are inextricably intertwined. He weaves \"The Life of Pablo\"s hardest-knocking beat, chords cribbed from Nina Simone, and Sister Nancy's reggae classic \"Bam Bam\" into a vibrant tapestry, and he uses all of that beauty to crack open his long-simmering spat with the biggest pop star on the planet. The court of public opinion won't ever reach a verdict on Taylor [Swift] v. Kanye — did she consent to being mentioned? Did she double-cross Kanye? At least we can all agree that \"Famous\" captures West in all of his complicated, vital glory.\"\n\nThe track was positioned at number 10 on \"Time\"'s list of 2016's best songs. \"HotNewHipHop\" placed it at number 43 on their list of West's 50 best songs.\n\nThe song received Grammy nominations for Best Rap/Sung Performance and Best Rap Song at the 59th Annual Grammy Awards in 2017, but ended up losing both to \"Hotline Bling\" by Canadian rapper and singer Drake.\n\nThe song includes a controversial lyric in reference to West's interruption of singer Taylor Swift's 2009 VMA acceptance speech and its aftermath: \n\"For all my South Side niggas that know me best<br>I feel like me and Taylor might still have sex<br>Why? I made that bitch famous<br>(Goddamn!)<br>I made that bitch famous.\"<br>\n\nUpon the song's release, the lyric was heavily publicized and criticized by media outlets, though West defended the line, saying, \"I called Taylor and had a hour long convo with her about the line and she thought it was funny and gave her blessings.\" In response, Swift's spokesperson adamantly denied that West asked for her approval for the controversial lyric, with an official statement claiming that Swift had only been asked to release West's song on her Twitter page, and had instead \"cautioned him against releasing a song with such a strong misogynistic message.\" In Swift's 2016 Grammy Awards victory speech for Best Album, she seemingly made a veiled reference to West's lyric, referring to \"those people along the way who are going to try to undercut your success or take credit for your accomplishments or your \"fame.\"\"\n\nIn a June 2016 interview with \"GQ\", West's wife Kim Kardashian West claimed the couple possessed a video recording of West's phone call with Swift, in which Swift could be heard amiably discussing and approving the lyrics. She clarified that Swift's camp had threatened legal action should the video be released, and argued that \"I swear, my husband gets so much shit for things [when] he really was doing proper protocol and even called to get it approved.\" In July 2016, Kardashian posted a recording of the phone conversation online, in which Swift can allegedly be heard approving West's lyric, describing it as a \"compliment\" and a show of friendship. Due to the release of this video, Swift has been accused of lying about approving the lyric. In the call, Swift appears to say: Yeah, go with whatever line makes you feel better, it's obviously very tongue-in-cheek either way. And I really appreciate you telling me about it, that's really nice [...] I don't think anyone would listen to that and be like 'that's a real diss, she must be crying.' You've gotta tell the story the way that it happened to you and the way that you experienced it. You honestly didn't know who I was before that. It doesn't matter that I sold 7 million of that album before you did that which is what happened, you didn't know who I was before that. It's fine. [...] If people ask me about it, I think it would be great for me to be like, ‘Look, he called me and told me about the line.'\nWest can be heard telling Swift, \"I just had a responsibility to you as a friend, you know, and thanks for being so cool about it.\"\n\nFollowing the video's release, Swift released a statement stating \"being falsely painted as a liar when I was never given the full story or played any part of the song is character assassination,\" claiming West did not tell her she would be referred to as \"that bitch.\"\n\nOn the same day as the video's release, Kardashian tweeted about National Snake Day, saying \"They have holidays for everybody, I mean everything these days! 🐍\". This tweet was interpreted as being aimed at Swift, and the hashtag #TaylorSwiftIsASnake became trending. In September 2016, Swift started using a filter created by Instagram CEO Kevin Systrom to automatically delete comments using the snake emoji on her profile. By August 2017, Swift was using snakes in promotional material for her 2017 album \"Reputation\". They were worked into merchandise, the music video for its lead single \"Look What You Made Me Do\", and her 2018 Reputation Stadium Tour.\n\nIn October 2016, the demo version leaked, revealing different lyrics on Swift and Amber Rose.\n\nThe song's music video premiered at a Tidal exclusive event at The Forum in Inglewood, California on June 24, 2016. The video begins with a camera passing slowly over the nude, lookalike sleeping bodies of famous personalities. All of the celebrities are synthetic bodies. At the end of the video, the camera pans out to show all of the sleeping bodies at the same time as West wakes up from his slumber. Vincent Desiderio's painting \"Sleep\" is the visual inspiration for the video.\n\nTwo days prior to the video's release, West showed the video to Dirk Standen of \"Vanity Fair\" over Skype while the video was still in its final editing stages. The video was filmed over a period of three months and went through four different versions prior to the finalized version. West did not reveal which of the celebrities' bodies in the video were real and which ones were prosthetic; however he stated that the video was \"not in support or [against] any of [the people in the video]\" and was merely \"a comment on fame\". He also stated that he received his wife Kardashian's permission. Days after its release, \"E! Online\" editor Corinne Heller commented, \"Swift is the main reason the 'Famous' video was so anticipated.\" However, it received \"almost no reactions\" from the celebrities portrayed. Audience response to the video was polarized. The video of the song was uploaded to YouTube on July 1, 2016. West's song \"Father Stretch My Hands Pt. 1\" is also featured in the video.\n\nThe video earned nominations for Best Male Video and Video of the Year at the 2016 MTV Video Music Awards. As well as Best Hip-Hop Video at the 2016 MTV Video Music Awards Japan. German director Werner Herzog expressed admiration for the video, describing it as \"very good stuff\" and admitting he had \"never seen anything like this.\" The sculptures depicted in the music video are on a gallery tour, and some estimates for its sale are as high as $4 million.\n"}
{"id": "1465823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1465823", "title": "Fan-Tan", "text": "Fan-Tan\n\nFan-Tan, or fantan (, literally \"repeated divisions\") is a form of a gambling game long played in China. It has similarities to roulette.\n\nThe game may have arisen during third and fourth centuries, during the period of the Northern and Southern dynasties. It then spread through southern China during the Qing dynasty. \nThe name fantan dates back only to the mid-nineteenth century. Before that time, \"fantan\" was known as \"yanqian\" 掩錢 (literally meaning “covering coins”, \"tanxi\" 攤\n戲, \"tanqian\" 攤錢, \"yiqian\" 意錢. It was prominent during the Republican period, in Canton and the Pearl River Delta region..\n\nAfter 1850, \"fantan\" spread overseas as a side effect of the massive Cantonese emigration. As a rule, in places were a significant number of Cantonese migrants could be found, \"fantan\" was also present. Fan-tan was very popular among Chinese migrants in America, as most of them were of Cantonese origin. Jacob Riis, in his famous book about the underbelly of New York, \"How the Other Half Lives\" (1890), wrote of entering a Chinatown fan-tan parlor: \"At the first foot-fall of leather soles on the steps the hum of talk ceases, and the group of celestials, crouching over their game of fan tan, stop playing and watch the comer with ugly looks. Fan tan is their ruling passion.\" The large Chinatown in San Francisco was also home to dozens of fan-tan houses in the 19th century. The city's former police commissioner Jesse B. Cook wrote that in 1889 Chinatown had 50 fan-tan games, and that \"in the 50 fan tan gambling houses the tables numbered from one to 24, according to the size of the room.\"\n\nFan-tan is no longer as popular as it once was, having been replaced by modern casino games, and other traditional Chinese games such as Mah Jong and Pai Gow. Fan-tan is still played at some Macau casinos.\n\nA square is marked in the center of an ordinary table, or a square piece of metal is laid on it, the sides being marked 1, 2, 3 and 4. The banker puts on the table a double handful of small buttons, beads, coins, dried beans, or similar articles, which he covers with a metal bowl, or \"tan koi\". \n\nThe players then bet on the numbers, setting their stakes on the side of the square which bears the number selected. Players can also bet on the corners, for example between No. 2 and No. 3. When all bets are placed, the bowl is removed and the \"tan kun\", or croupier, uses a small bamboo stick to remove the buttons from the heap, four at a time, until the final batch is reached. If it contains four buttons, the backer of No. 4 wins; if three, the backer of No. 3 wins; if two, the backer of No. 2 wins and if one the backer of No. 1 wins.\n\nAll winning wagers are paid true odds less a house commission, which ranges from 5% to 25% depending on the establishment. For example, assume a bettor has $100 wagered on a 3 to 1 wager; if the bet wins, the bettor is paid $285 ($300 less 5%).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40969472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40969472", "title": "Ginger Cow", "text": "Ginger Cow\n\n\"Ginger Cow\" is the sixth episode in the seventeenth season of the American animated television series \"South Park\". The 243rd episode of the series overall, it first aired on Comedy Central in the United States on November 6, 2013. In the episode, Cartman modifies a cow to make it look like a ginger as a joke. However, various religious groups see this as a prophecy being fulfilled and peace is brought to the Middle East.\n\nAt South Park Elementary, Cartman announces that he wishes to apologize to Kyle, saying that Kyle was correct the previous day when he told Cartman that humans are not the only animals that can have light skin and freckles. Telling them that he has discovered a ginger cow, Cartman takes his classmates to a nearby farm, where he shows them a cow that has been given a red wig and painted white with giant red \"freckles\". Though Kyle sees through this obvious prank, Cartman insists to his credulous classmates that it is real.\n\nNews of the cow spreads across the globe and is widely interpreted as the fulfillment of a Biblical prophecy regarding a red heifer that signals \"the end\", or the end times. Kyle is then called to Mr. Mackey's office, where he is introduced to three Israeli rabbis, who explain the prophecy to him. Kyle tries to convince them that the red heifer is a forgery on Cartman's part, but the farm where the cow is located becomes a pilgrimage site where large numbers of Jews, Muslims, and Christians congregate, each claiming the cow for their respective religions. However, when the three religious sects meet to plan Armageddon, they realize that they are negotiating in a civil manner and that the prophecy may have meant that the cow would signal the end of war, and not the end of the world. The congregants then agree to sacrifice the cow in order to fulfill the prophecy. \n\nPeace is achieved in the Middle East among the three Abrahamic religions, who morph the cross, Star of David, and Islamic crescent moon into a new unifying symbol – the logo of the band Van Halen, which appears on a stage to commence a 10-year concert in Israel. Cartman then appears at Kyle's house and admits that the cow was a forgery and states that he intends to admit this publicly. Realizing that this revelation may ruin the interfaith peace that the forgery achieved, Kyle asks him not to. Cartman agrees to withhold this information, on condition that Kyle do everything that Cartman says, which includes indignities such as insulting his own mother Sheila to her face, performing menial tasks and humiliating himself in public by allowing Cartman to fart in his face and claiming that he enjoys it. \n\nKyle, who is conflicted over the morality of the deception, experiences a vision of a spirit that praises his sacrifice and compels him to shave his head. However, Stan becomes critical of Kyle, telling him that while publicly claiming to like Cartman's farts is his prerogative, the self-righteous manner that he has adopted when doing so is not. Kyle is unmoved, and Stan, noting that Kyle's odd behavior began with the peace in the Middle East, seeks to investigate. \n\nKyle and Cartman travel to Israel, where Cartman intends to further humiliate Kyle by having him endure his farts and claim to enjoy it on a stage before thousands of people. Their demonstration is interrupted, however, by a broadcast hosted by Anderson Cooper, in which Stan intends to expose the truth about Cartman's red cow. Kyle, speaking to Stan privately by cell phone, explains why he has been enduring Cartman's abuse and convinces Stan not to expose the truth, in order to preserve the new peace. Acquiescing to this, Stan instead announces in the broadcast that he saw the cow descend miraculously from heaven. However, the prophecy stated that a fat child with a small penis would disguise a cow to look ginger, not that one would just miraculously fall from the sky. The short-lived peace among the three religions falls apart. Kyle, realizing that the prophecy really has occurred, tries to convince the rabbis that this is precisely what happened, but Cartman refuses to corroborate this.\n\n\"South Park\" co-creators Trey Parker and Matt Stone reveal on the DVD commentary for \"Ginger Cow\" the origin of the episode. Stone had been reading about how the red heifer relates to religions and thought they could make a big story about it; that big story ended up being about peace being brought to the Middle East since the red heifer had significance in several religions.\n\nParker and Stone felt that, in hindsight, this episode should have been a two-part storyline. They said they thought they could have gotten a lot of mileage out of the main premise, with Parker even saying it could have potentially been a film. They were forced to cut a lot of content to condense the episode to the standard runtime of around twenty-one minutes.\n\nMax Nicholson of IGN gave the episode a score of 7.5 out of 10, stating that it \"touches on some great ideas that would have benefited from more time\". \n\nRyan McGee of \"The A.V. Club\" gave the episode a B+ rating, stating: \"'Ginger Cow' comes very close to utterly succeeding on several occasions, but ultimately settles for being fascinating. There are some great ideas here that no amount of screen time would ever sufficiently answer. But those ideas still needed more screen time to sufficiently \"debate\". Still, in a season as subpar as this has been, it’s heartening to see the show can still recapture some of its past heights this late in the game.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "52222979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52222979", "title": "Heta-uma", "text": "Heta-uma\n\nHeta-uma ( or ) is a Japanese underground manga movement started in the 1970 decade with the magazine \"Garo\". \"Heta-uma\" can be translated as \"bad but good\", designating a work which looks poorly drawn, but with an aesthetically conscious quality, opposed to the polished look of mainstream manga.\n\nSome of \"heta-uma\"'s main artists are Teruhiko Yumura (pen name \"King Terry\"), Yoshikazu Ebisu and Takashi Nemoto.\n"}
{"id": "8065964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8065964", "title": "Hiroshima City Asa Zoological Park", "text": "Hiroshima City Asa Zoological Park\n\nAsa Zoological Park opened in 1971 in Asakita-ku, Hiroshima as the 62nd zoo in Japan. The gross area of the zoo is 49.6 ha. There are about 170 varieties of animals including giraffes, lions, black rhinoceroses, lesser pandas, woylies, Japanese giant salamanders and macaws.\n\nThey recruit citizen volunteers to explain the animals in detail and with humor to visitors.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29466325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29466325", "title": "Imperial Wireless Chain", "text": "Imperial Wireless Chain\n\nThe Imperial Wireless Chain was a strategic international communications network of powerful long range radiotelegraphy stations, created to link the countries of the British Empire. The stations exchanged commercial and diplomatic text message traffic transmitted at high speed by Morse code using paper tape machines. Although the idea was conceived prior to World War I, the United Kingdom was the last of the world's great powers to implement an operational system. The first link in the chain, between Leafield in Oxfordshire and Cairo, Egypt, eventually opened on 24 April 1922, with the final link, between Australia and Canada, opening on 16 June 1928.\n\nGuglielmo Marconi invented the first practical radio transmitters and receivers, and radio began to be used for practical ship-to-shore communication around 1900. His company, the Marconi Wireless Telegraph Company, dominated early radio. In the period leading up to World War I, long distance radiotelegraphy became a strategic defense technology, as it was realized that a nation without radio could be isolated by an enemy cutting its submarine telegraph cables, as indeed happened during the war. Starting around 1908, industrialized nations built global networks of powerful transoceanic wireless telegraphy stations to exchange Morse code telegram traffic with their overseas colonies. \nIn 1910 the Colonial Office received a formal proposal from the Marconi Company to construct a series of wireless telegraphy stations to link the British Empire within three years. While not then accepted, the Marconi proposal created serious interest in the concept. \n\nA dilemma faced by Britain throughout the negotiations to establish the Chain was that Britain owned the largest network of submarine telegraph cables. The proposed stations would directly compete with cables for a fixed amount of transoceanic telegram traffic, reducing the revenue of the cable companies and possibly bankrupting them. \n\nParliament ruled out the creation of a private monopoly to provide the service and concluded that no government department was in a position to do so, and the Treasury were reluctant to fund the creation of a new department. Contracting the construction to a commercial \"wireless company\" was the favoured option, and a contract was signed with Marconi's Wireless Telegraph Company in March 1912. The government then found itself facing severe criticism and appointed a select committee to examine the topic. After hearing evidence from the Admiralty, War Office, India Office, and representatives from South Africa, the committee unanimously concluded that a \"chain of Imperial wireless stations\" should be established as a matter of urgency. An Expert Committee also advised that Marconi were the only company with technology that was proven to operate reliably over the distances required (in excess of ) \"if rapid installation and immediate and trustworthy communication be desired\".\n\nAfter further negotiations prompted by Treasury pressure, a modified contract was ratified by Parliament on 8 August 1913, with 221 Members of Parliament voting in favour, 140 against. The course of these events was disrupted somewhat by the Marconi scandal, when it was alleged that highly placed members of the governing Liberal party had used their knowledge of the negotiations to indulge in insider trading in Marconi shares. The outbreak of World War I led to the suspension of the contract by the government. Meanwhile Germany successfully constructed its own wireless chain before the war, at a cost equivalent to two million pounds sterling, and was able to use it to its advantage during the conflict.\n\nWith the end of the war and the Dominions continuing to apply pressure on the Government to provide an \"Imperial wireless system\", the House of Commons agreed in 1919 that £170,000 should be spent constructing the first two radio stations in the chain, in Oxfordshire (at Leafield) and Egypt (in Cairo), to be completed in early 1920 – although the link actually opened on 24 April 1922, two months after the UK declared Egypt independent.\n\nParliament's decision came shortly after legal action initiated by Marconi in June 1919, claiming £7,182,000 in damages from the British Government for breach of their July 1912 contract, and in which they were awarded £590,000 by the court. The Government also commissioned the \"Imperial Wireless Telegraphy Committee\" chaired by Sir Henry Norman (the Norman Committee), which reported in 1920. The Norman Report recommended that transmitters should have a range of 2,000 miles, which required relay stations, and that Britain should be connected to Canada, Australia, South Africa, Egypt, India, East Africa, Singapore, and Hong Kong. However, the report was not acted upon. While British politicians procrastinated, Marconi constructed stations for other nations, linking North and South America, as well as China and Japan, in 1922. In January 1922 the British Chambers of Commerce added their voice to the demands for action, adopting a resolution urging the Government to urgently resolve the matter, as did other organisations such as the Empire Press Union, which claimed that the Empire was suffering \"incalculable loss\" in its absence.\n\nUnder this pressure, after the 1922 General Election, the Conservative government commissioned the Empire Wireless Committee, chaired by Sir Robert Donald, to \"consider and advise upon the policy to be adopted as regards an Imperial wireless service so as to protect and facilitate public interest.\" Its report was presented to the Postmaster-General on 23 February 1924 The committee's recommendations were similar to those of the Norman Committee – that any stations in Great Britain used to communicate with the Empire should be in the hands of the State, that they should be operated by the Post Office, and that eight high-power longwave stations should be used, as well as land-lines. The scheme was estimated at £500,000. At the time the committee was unaware of Marconi's 1923 experiments into shortwave radio transmissions, which offered a much cheaper alternative – although not a commercially proven one – to high-power long-wave transmission system.\n\nFollowing the Donald Report and discussions with the Dominions, it was decided that the high-power Rugby longwave station (announced on 13 July 1922 by the previous government) would be completed since it used proven technology, in addition to which a number of shortwave \"beam stations\" would be built (so called because a directional antenna concentrated the radio transmission into a narrow directional beam). The beam stations would communicate with those Dominions that chose the new shortwave technology. Parliament finally approved an agreement between the Post Office and Marconi to build beam stations to communicate with Canada, South Africa, India and Australia, on 1 August 1924.\n\nFrom when the Post Office began operating the \"Post Office Beam\" services, through to March, 31st, 1929, they had earned gross receipts of £813,100 at a cost of £538,850, leaving a net surplus of £274,250.\n\nEven before the final link became operational between Australia and Canada, it was apparent that the commercial success of the Wireless Chain was threatening the viability of the cable telegraphy companies. An \"Imperial Wireless and Cable Conference\" was therefore held in London in January 1928, with delegates from Great Britain, the self-governing Dominions, India, the Crown Colonies and Protectorates, to \"examine the situation which arose as a result of the competition of the Imperial Beam Wireless Services with the cable services of various parts of the empire, to report upon it and to make recommendations with a view to a common policy being adopted by the various governments concerned.\" It concluded that the cable companies would not be able to compete in an unrestricted market, but that the cable links remained of both commercial and strategic value. It therefore recommended that the cable and wireless interests of the Eastern Telegraph Company, the Eastern Extension, Australasia and China Telegraph Company, Western Telegraph Company and Marconi's Wireless Telegraph Company should be merged to form a single organisation holding a monopolistic position. The merged company would be overseen by an Imperial Advisory Committee, would purchase the Government owned cables in the Pacific, West Indies and Atlantic, and would also be given a lease on the beam stations for a period of 25 years, for the sum of £250,000 per year.\n\nThe conference's recommendations were incorporated into the Imperial Telegraphs Act 1929, leading to the creation of two new companies on 8 April 1929; an operating company Imperial and International Communications, in turn owned by a holding company named Cable & Wireless Limited. In 1934 Imperial and International Communications was renamed as Cable & Wireless Limited, with Cable and Wireless Limited being renamed as Cable and Wireless (Holding) Limited. From the beginning of April 1928 the Beam services were operated by the Post Office as agent for Imperial and International Communications Limited.\n\nThe 1930s saw the arrival of the Great Depression, as well as competition from the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation and affordable airmail. Due to such factors Cable and Wireless were never able to earn the revenue which had been forecast, resulting in low dividends and an inability to reduce the rates charged to customers as much as had been expected. To ease the financial pressure, the British Government finally decided to transfer the beam stations to Cable and Wireless, in exchange for 2,600,000 of the 30,000,000 shares in the company, under the provisions of the Imperial Telegraphs Act 1938. The ownership of the beam stations was reversed in 1947, when the Labour Government nationalised Cable and Wireless, integrating its UK assets with those of the Post Office. By this stage, however, three of the original stations had been closed, after the service was centralised during 1939–1940 at Dorchester and Somerton. The longwave Rugby radio station continued to remain under Post Office ownership throughout.\n\nThe shortwave Imperial Wireless Chain \"beam stations\" operated in pairs; one transmitting and one receiving. Pairs of stations were sited at (transmitters first):\n\nAt Bodmin and Bridgwater, each aerial stretched to nearly half a mile (800 m) long, and consisted of a row of five high lattice masts, erected in a line at intervals and at right angles to the overseas receiving station. These were topped by cross-arm measuring high by wide, from which the vertical wires of the aerial were hung, forming a \"curtain antenna\". At Tetney the antenna for India was similar to those at Bodmin and Bridgwater, while the Australian aerial was carried on three high masts.\n\nElectronic components for the system were built at Marconi's New Street wireless factory in Chelmsford.\n\nDevizes was home to a receiving station until the outbreak of World War One.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "55794165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55794165", "title": "Laos at major beauty pageants", "text": "Laos at major beauty pageants\n\nThis is a list of Laos's representatives and their placements at the Big Four international beauty pageants, considered the most important in the world. The country has not yet win any crown:\n\n\n<br>\n× \"Did not compete\"<br>\n↑ \"No pageant held\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49144047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49144047", "title": "Lazarus (musical)", "text": "Lazarus (musical)\n\nLazarus is a musical with music and lyrics composed by David Bowie, and a book written by Enda Walsh. First performed at the end of 2015, it was one of the last works Bowie completed before his death on 10 January 2016. The musical is inspired by Walter Tevis's novel \"The Man Who Fell to Earth\". Bowie previously starred in the 1976 film adaptation of the same name, directed by Nicolas Roeg.\n\nAs of September 2018 there have been five productions: one each in New York, London, Bremen, Düsseldorf, and Vienna. Six further productions are planned for Leipzig, Hamburg, Linz, Amsterdam, Bielefeld and Göttingen. All of the productions have been box-office successes.\n\nThe musical was staged for a limited run at New York Theatre Workshop in Manhattan, directed by Ivo van Hove. Like Bowie's contemporary album \"Blackstar\" (with which it shares the song \"Lazarus\"), much of the production of the musical was kept secret until its first preview in November 2015. The musical opened on 7 December 2015 with a planned run through 17 January 2016, although the production was extended to 20 January 2016. Tickets to the entire run of the musical sold out within hours of being made available.\n\n\nBowie's last public appearance was at the 7 December 2015 opening night of the production.\n\nNew York City's mayor's office declared the final day of the play's run (20 January 2016) \"David Bowie Day\" in honour of the late artist and presented the proclamation to managing director Jeremy Blocker at the curtain call of the final show.\n\nBen Brantley said in his review of the production in \"The New York Times\" that \"Ice-bolts of ecstasy shoot like novas through the fabulous muddle and murk of \"Lazarus\", the great-sounding, great-looking and mind numbing new musical built around songs by David Bowie.\" \"Rolling Stone\" called the musical a \"tour de force\" and \"theater at its finest.\"\n\nA London production of the musical was announced in July 2016. The London production ran at the Kings Cross Theatre from 8 November 2016 to 22 January 2017, with previews beginning the week of 25 October.\n\nIvo van Hove directed the London production. The London production was produced by Robert Fox Ltd. and Jones/Tintoretto Entertainment.\n\nAdditional cast members:\n\nA performance in London was recorded for a \"Lazarus\" film; the film was shown in New York for one night in May, 2018.\n\n\"Lazarus\" features a number of songs from Bowie's back catalogue as well as four new tracks (\"Lazarus\", \"No Plan\", \"Killing a Little Time\", \"When I Met You\").\n\nOn 21 October 2016, the original cast recording, \"Lazarus\", was released. The album also features three previously unreleased songs from Bowie, among the last he recorded prior to his death.\n"}
{"id": "52070819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52070819", "title": "List of entertainment events at The Forum", "text": "List of entertainment events at The Forum\n\nThis article shows a list of entertainment events that were held at The Forum in Inglewood, California, United States. The busiest music arena in the Los Angeles area has hosted many local, regional and international artists since its opening in late-1967. A list of entertainment events are given in the tables below in a chronological order.\n\nThe Rolling Stones set a record-breaking gross in 1969 from two shows with a total gross of $238,000 which was later surpassed by Elvis Presley in late-1970 with a total gross of $313,000.\n"}
{"id": "4177494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4177494", "title": "Lou Jacobs", "text": "Lou Jacobs\n\nJohann Ludwig Jacob (January 1, 1903 – September 13, 1992), professionally known as Lou Jacobs, was a German-born American auguste clown who performed for Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus for more than 60 years. He was inducted into the International Clown Hall of Fame in 1989. He is credited with popularizing the clown car, which has been a staple of circus clown acts ever since. He is also often cited as the originator of the red rubber ball nose, which is used by many clowns today. He was the first living person to have his portrait appear on an American postage stamp.\n\nLou Jacobs was born in Bremerhaven, Germany. His parents were a song and dance team. Lou was the youngest of their nine children. His original name was Jacob Ludwig. He broke into show business at age seven at a variety hall in Bremen, Germany. In his first performance, he played the hindquarters of an alligator, while his brother played the head and forefeet. He posed as a cherub in a living statue display. At age 11, Lou saw his first clown act and desired to pursue clowning, but his father disapproved. Mr. Ludwig apprenticed Lou to a hand balancer and a tumbler in hopes that this would keep him away from clowning. He went on to study acrobatics, barrel jumping, and contortion techniques after school and at nights.\n\nIn 1923, Lou Jacobs came to the U. S. on a steamship. His older brother Karl, had already made it to the U. S. and worked in the Keith Orpheum Theater as a contortionist. He saved up $150.00 to pay for his brother’s boat fare. When Jacobs arrived in New York, he had only two dollars and could not speak English. Yet, he landed a part in a Belgian acrobatic act that paid $25.00 a week. After almost two years of performing in fairs, outdoor exhibits, and winter vaudeville, Jacobs teamed up with Michael Morris, a British contortionist in late 1924. They did a comedy act that satirized the trapeze acts, a broomstick was their “trapeze.”\n\nFortunately for Jacobs, Morris had a contract with Ringling Brothers and Barnum and Bailey Circus. Morris was able to bring him into the circus with his act for the 1925 campaign. As the year progressed, Jacobs spent more time with the clowns. He eventually got into costume and makeup and worked in some of the production numbers. Starting out as a whiteface clown, he changed to an auguste (clown that has white just around the mouth and eyes) after John Ringling gave him a full-time position as a clown in the 1926 campaign. Jacobs wasted no time in developing his costume. It was a checkered pink and lavender suit with baggy pants and a collar. He wore big shoes and carried a small umbrella attached to a handle.\n\nSome of Jacobs’s early sketches were a satire on the Dempsey-Tunney prizefight, the burning house gag, and the clown wedding. Even though Jacobs excelled in comedy sketches and satires, he was best known for developing several mechanical contraptions. He made himself a one-man band by mounting a bass drum on his back with a pair of sock cymbals on top which crashed on motion. The mallet was attached to the bass drum and activated by a rope connected to Jacobs’s right ankle. He wore a special cap with about bells rigged on it. To top it off, Jacobs played the harmonica while keeping the bass drum, cymbals and bells going.\n\nJacobs’s most notable mechanical device was the midget car. This act took him about four years to perfect. The first prototypes were made in 1944. After going through some difficulty getting the cars to run, George Wallenda, the famed wire walker, advised him to use a washing machine motor. He also helped Jacobs tailor the small car to his folded-up contorted body by helping him build several cardboard mock-ups. Once they began road testing the car, they discovered that Jacobs had a vision problem after he ran into a tree. The midget car finally made its debut in 1946, only to get scrubbed from the program due to stalling problems.\n\nThe act was reentered in the 1947 campaign. Jacobs enhanced the visual contrast between his six-foot-one-inch frame and his tiny twenty-three inch car by making himself a bigger pair of shoes. However, the shoes impaired his vision. He accidentally ran into Jimmy Armstrong, a fellow clown. That collision broke the steering arm to the car, causing another collision into a stage in the center ring. Jacobs could not get out of the car due to the extent of the damage. He had to be towed from the arena while inside the car and was eventually freed with a hacksaw back stage.\nIn 1948, the perfected midget car was reentered and used in a sketch that became an all-time classic. Jacobs opened the act by racing the loud honking car into the center ring. The car would start to sputter and backfire as he pulled up to a makeshift gas station. Watching Jacobs unfold out of the car was an act all by itself. Once he was out, the gas station attendant played by Frankie Saluta insisted that the car was not parked close enough to the pump. Jacobs whacked Frankie over the head with a mallet and a balloon welt rose on his head. The car would sputter and backfire as Jacobs tried to move it closer. He then removed the radiator cap, a snake lunged out and a geyser of water followed. Jacobs sat on the geyser only to have water squirting from the top of his head. When he stopped the flow with his hand, the water squirted out of his mouth. Finally, the car was pushed closer to the pump. Frankie climbed inside the pump and Jacobs threw in a bomb. The explosion sent up a dummy dressed like Frankie and it floated down under a parachute. Jacobs closed the act by making a speedy exit in the midget car in an attempt to evade the pursuing cop played by Jimmy Armstrong.\nIn 1953 he married Jean Rockwell, a former model and circus aerialist. They had two daughters: Dolly, who became a well-known acrobat and trapeze artist, and Lou Ann, an elephant trainer.\nIn 1966 he had the distinction of being the only living American to have his image put on a U.S. postage stamp.\nOn November 11, 1967, Irvin and Israel Feld and Judge Roy Hofheinz, Jr. pooled their money and bought RB&B&B Circus from John Ringling North for 8 million dollars. The official signing and transfer of ownership was ceremoniously carried out at the ruins of the old Coliseum in Rome. Irvin Feld realized the important role clowns played in the overall success of the Circus. When he acquired the Circus, there were only 14, all over fifty. Irvin Feld wanted to infuse some fresh blood into the Clown Alley. He did this by starting a Clown College in the summer of 1968.\n\nAfter the school experienced limited success in its inaugural term, Irvin Feld commissioned Bill Ballantine to direct the next class. The first person Bill wanted on his faculty was Lou Jacobs. Bill was well acquainted with Jacobs because he performed with him as a clown in the 1947 and ’48 campaigns. This was not the first time Jacobs taught clowning. He was James Stewart’s tutor when he played a clown in the 1952 Cecil B. DeMille movie, “The Greatest Show on Earth.” The teaching position at the Clown College had a farther reaching impact because he taught hundreds of young men and women.\n\nBill Ballantine described Jacobs as an “unselfish and a natural-born teacher.” He was known for his patience and brought out the best in his pupils. They called him “Papa Lou.” His method of instruction was to teach the beginner material that had already been written, after the student acquired a feel for the art, he could start writing his own material. Jacobs had an inexhaustible supply of clown sketches for his students. He wrote down every clown sketch he had seen, heard of, or thought of and kept them all in a little black book. There were well over fifty years of material in it.\nIn 1988, after 64 years, Lou Jacobs finally retired from the Circus, but continued teaching at the Clown College. On April 23, 1989, he was one of the first six clowns to be inducted into the recently formed Clown Hall of Fame in Delavan, Wisconsin. His fellow inductees were: Felix Adler, Otto Griebling, Emmett Kelly, Mark Anthony, and Red Skelton. On September 13, 1992, Lou Jacobs died at age 89. He died peacefully in his sleep in Sarasota, Florida. Funeral services were held four days later at Sarasota’a First United Methodist Church. The church was packed with circus people from all over the country. Everyone from riggers to ringmasters came to pay their respects to the Master Clown.\n\nOf all the accomplishments Jacobs made during his circus career, his most significant accomplishment was his family. He married Jean Rockwell, a fashion model and an aerialist in 1953. They had two daughters who became accomplished circus stars in their own right. Lou Ann and Dolly Jean performed as show girls with RB&B&B Circus and Billy Lee’s Sarasota Sailor Circus. Lou Ann trained elephants with Tommy Hanneford’s Royal Hanneford Productions. She is married to animal trainer George Barreda, and they have a daughter named Julia. Dolly is an award winning aerialist and the undisputed “queen” of the Roman Rings. She was also her Dad’s fishing partner.\n\nP. T. Barnum referred to clowns as the pegs of the circus. Irvin Feld said that clowns are as important to the life of a circus as bread is to the life of man. There is no question that Jacobs was a very big peg. In addition to being a peg, he could also be described as a bridge. Jacobs was a part of the old circus when it was under the Big Top and has been billed in the same program with Emmett Kelly, Otto Griebling, and many other circus greats. He played a vital role in helping the circus make its transition to the modern era. He perfected the art of clowning and helped preserve it by teaching the next generation. Lou Jacobs is one of many people who have made a significant contribution in the preservation of the Circus in the 20th century. Because of that, the Circus will be around for children of all ages well into the 21st century.\n\n"}
{"id": "15489912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15489912", "title": "Mike Massey", "text": "Mike Massey\n\nMichael Massey (born April 9, 1947), professionally known as Mike Massey, is an American professional pocket-billiards (pool) player, best known as a trick-shot artist since the late 1970s, who has given substantial visibility to the sport by traveling the globe to perform exhibitions and compete in a variety of disciplines. He has won professional national and international tournaments in trick-shot competition, nine-ball, eight-ball, straight-pool (14.1 continuous), and one-pocket, and he has become even more influential in the sport as an accomplished instructor, consultant, and fund-raiser. From 1989 to 1991 he served as a contributing editor of \"The Snap Magazine\". Massey was born in Loudon, Tennessee, and for several years lived in Chattanooga, Tennessee, where he owned a pool hall. He has the nickname of \"Tennessee Tarzan\", but he now lives in Midway, Utah.\n\nMassey was inducted into the Hall of Fame of the Billiard Congress of America on April 7, 2005. For 2007 he was ranked as #8 in \"Pool & Billiard Magazine\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s poll of the \"Fans' Top 20 Favorite Players\". \n\nIn 1991, Massey took part in the inaugural World Trickshot Championship in the United Kingdom and despite not winning the event, demonstrated his skills in a special \"duel\" against the former World Snooker Champion Steve Davis before a live audience, hosted by TV personality Jeremy Beadle. Massey also demonstrated his ability to impart spin onto a ball with his hand, throwing s from the end of the 12-foot-long snooker table, which would then curve around and travel behind the to (snooker term: ) a placed in front of the righthand pocket, without the cue ball touching a . \nMassey used props and illusion as an integral part of his routine, such as two balls bonded together, magic props and card tricks. In the words of the 1991 World Trickshot Champion Terry Griffiths: \"I feel quite embarrassed to have won actually; Mike Massey is miles ahead of the rest of us. I think it was maybe a touch of nerves that put him off tonight.\" Massey would go on to win the event in later years. \nMassey was also notable for his ability to pick up twice as many pool balls using only one hand than anyone else, a skill he claimed had won him many bets. During the aforementioned Duel with Steve Davis, he managed to pick up 8 balls, with Davis managing to pick up 5. Massey stated that the smaller snooker balls (as compared to U.S. pool balls) made the task more difficult rather than easier. Massey was able to achieve his total of 8 balls by holding a ball between each finger, then picking up 3 more using his palm and thumb muscle.\n\n"}
{"id": "27728267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27728267", "title": "MozartNu (1986–2008)", "text": "MozartNu (1986–2008)\n\nMozartNu (1986–2008) is a contemporary dance performance conceived by the Spanish director, Iago Pericot. It is derived from Pericot's \"MozartNu\", which premiered in 1986. The original 1986 version of \"MozartNu\", inspired by the Coronation Mass of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, showed the beauty of human relationships through the naked bodies of two dancers.\n\nIn \"MozartNu (1986–2008)\", the original version is performed by one couple on one platform, while another couple dances simultaneously on a separate platform on the same stage. These parallel performances reflect the changes that have been the result of these human relationships over time.\n\nThe premiere production of \"MozartNu (1986–2008)\" was April 15–20, 2008 at \"El Mercat de les Flors\" in Barcelona, Spain. The older dancers were the dancers who performed in the original \"MozartNu\" of 1986.\n\n"}
{"id": "6317089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6317089", "title": "Museum of Comic and Cartoon Art", "text": "Museum of Comic and Cartoon Art\n\nThe Museum of Comic and Cartoon Art (MoCCA) is a not-for-profit arts organization and former museum in New York, devoted to comic books, comic strips and other forms of cartoon art. MoCCA sponsored events ranging from book openings to educational programs in New York City schools, and hosted classes, workshops and lectures. MoCCA was perhaps best known for its annual small-press comic convention, known as MoCCA Fest, first held in 2002.\n\nMoCCA was founded by Lawrence Klein in October 2001. It was located at 594 Broadway in New York City.\n\nOn July 9, 2012, MoCCA announced that it would be closing its physical location, effective immediately, due to fundraising difficulties.\n\nOn August 2, 2012, MoCCA announced plans to transfer their assets to the Society of Illustrators, providing MoCCA with a street-level location in the Society's Upper East Side building. It was confirmed that MoCCA Fest would continue to exist.\n\nThe MoCCA Festival (or MoCCA Fest) is an annual fundraiser for the museum (and now for the Society of Illustrators). It is New York's largest independent comics showcase, featuring hundreds of creators and publishers on the main floor, typically accompanied with additional rooms devoted to educational panel discussions, slide shows, and interviews. From its inception in 2002 until 2008 it was held at the Puck Building. From 2009 to 2014, it took place at the 69th Regiment Armory. In 2015, the event was split between two locations, with the exhibitors in Center548, and the programming at the High Line Hotel. Plans to convert Center548 to a residential property forced the Society to find new venues; in 2016 Metropolitan West will host the exhibitors, and programming will take place at Ink48.\n\nFrom 2002 to 2012, the museum presented an award at MoCCA Fest to an artist whose outstanding work elevated the comic art form. Originally known as the MoCCA Art Festival Award, it was renamed the Klein Award in 2009 in honor of MoCCA Founder Lawrence Klein. MoCCA Fest hosted the comics industry's 2004 and 2005 Harvey Awards.\n\nIn 2003, MoCCA opened its art gallery with the debut exhibit \"Gag Art!\", focusing on single-panel magazine cartoons. Subsequent exhibits included the relationship between New York City and cartoonists, an exhibition of women comic-book artists, retrospectives devoted to Stan Lee and Will Eisner, and \"From Richie Rich to Wendy the Good Little Witch: The Art of Harvey Comics\". Their \"The Art of Archie Comics\" exhibit was promoted with a story in \"Archie Digest Magazine\" #260, March 2010. The seven-page story, \"MoCCA Madness,\" was written by Arie Kaplan and drawn by Fernando Ruiz. It featured appearances by MoCCA President Ellen Abramowitz and then-Director Karl Erickson, and was subsequently reprinted in \"Archie: A Celebration of America's Favorite Teenagers\" by Craig Yoe (IDW, 2011).\n\n"}
{"id": "6390783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6390783", "title": "Music on demand", "text": "Music on demand\n\nMusic-on-demand is a music distribution model conceived with the growth of two-way computing, telecommunications and the Internet in the early 1990s. Primarily, high-quality music is made available to purchase, access and play back using software on the Apple Macintosh, Microsoft Windows, set-top boxes and mobile devices from an available distribution point, such as a computer host or server located at a telephone, cable TV or wireless data center facility.\n\nIn 1992, computer modem speeds were limited to less than 28 thousand bits per second (28 kbit/s), compared with uncompressed music on compact disc (CD) that required 150 thousand bytes per second. As a result, additional bandwidth is required to accommodate delivering audio at CD quality standards: 16-bit frame, 44.1 kHz sampling rate, stereophonic (two channel audio). This prompted telephony, CATV, cellular and satellite providers to consider changing standards, assisting in creating the information superhighway, in terms of building higher capacity for existing telecommunications infrastructures.\n\nEarly attempts at designing and developing music-on-demand technology, in accordance with the laws of the United States such as the Home Recording Act of 1992, include Access Media Network (AMN) by inventor Dale Schalow. Schalow, born in Virginia, was an independent audio engineer and programmer in Los Angeles, California, who helped record albums and music scores for David Bowie, Tin Machine, Cypress Hill, House of Pain, Beastie Boys, Interscope, and Warner Brothers. A multiplexed music-on-demand model was deployed using PCM audio sampling devices, Apple IIci, the KERMIT computer file transfer protocol, and SCSI storage systems by Schalow to validate processing 16-bit multi-channel audio from point-to-point in a professional recording studio environment, including his own independently operated Dascha company and 38 Fresh Recordings. The model conceived was introduced by Schalow to Apple Computer in 1992 after he submitted an entry into the \"I Changed the World\" contest, essentially describing how an Apple computer helped shape and change the world forever based upon its usage. Apple acknowledged the \"Accessible Music Network\" (AMN) by awarding Schalow Honorable Mention and sending him a simple gray T-shirt with the Apple logo on it. Stand-alone software created by AMN for consumer-based access was then developed for the Microsoft Windows computer operating system, as well as set-top box design prototypes conceptualized with 3D prototype imaging that required a telephone connector located next to a coaxial cable TV connector to converge low speed data uplinking with high speed downloading interactive communications.\n\nPresently, music-on-demand is still the center of controversy with a focus on illegal music downloading, peer-to-peer file swapping and the lag of legislation for rapidly changing technology on the Internet. Record labels represented by the RIAA, as well as publishers and songwriters, have vigorously defended copyrighted materials and have been successful in enforcing current laws for protecting their intellectual property. As of 2006, the new music industry has seen a rapid growth in overall revenues for legal digital music sales that has resulted in hitting and surpassing one billion dollars annually.\n\n"}
{"id": "939203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=939203", "title": "North (1994 film)", "text": "North (1994 film)\n\nNorth is a 1994 American comedy drama adventure film directed by Rob Reiner. The story is based on the 1984 novel, \"North: The Tale of a 9-Year-Old Boy Who Becomes a Free Agent and Travels the World in Search of the Perfect Parents\" by Alan Zweibel, who wrote the screenplay and has a minor role in the film. The cast includes Elijah Wood in the title role, with Jon Lovitz, Jason Alexander, Alan Arkin, Dan Aykroyd, Kathy Bates, Faith Ford, Graham Greene, Julia Louis-Dreyfus, Reba McEntire, John Ritter, and Abe Vigoda. Bruce Willis narrates and plays several different roles throughout the film, and a 9-year-old Scarlett Johansson appears briefly in her film debut. The film was shot in Hawaii, Alaska, California, South Dakota, New Jersey, and New York. It turned out to be a box office bomb, grossing just $7 million against its $40 million budget.\n\nNorth is a child prodigy, skilled in academics, sports, and drama, admired by many for his good work and obedient attitude, but unappreciated, he feels, by his own parents. One day, while finding solace in a living room display at a mall, he complains to the Easter Bunny—a man in a pink bunny suit—that his parents, alone among all the adults in his neighborhood, seem unable to see his talents. The Easter Bunny recommends that North simply tell his parents how he feels; but North says if they can't appreciate him, they don't deserve him. \n\nWith the help and encouragement of his friend Winchell, who works on the school paper, North devises a plan to \"divorce\" himself from his parents, and hires ambulance-chasing lawyer Arthur Belt to file the papers. The announcement of his divorce takes North's parents completely by surprise, and renders them comatose. They cannot object when Judge Buckle grants North's petition, and gives him one summer to find new parents; if he cannot, he will have to move to an orphanage. \n\nNorth's first stop is Texas, where his parental candidates attempt to fatten him up, to be more like their first son, Buck, who died in a stampede. They then stage a musical number about the other horrible plans they have for him. Gabby, a sharpshooting cowboy, presents North with a souvenir from his act—a silver dollar with a bullet hole shot through its center—and advises him to move on.\n\nHis next stop is Hawaii, where Governor and Mrs. Ho, who cannot have children of their own, are eager to adopt him. North is overjoyed; but the governor unveils a new state campaign to encourage mainlanders to move to Hawaii. North learns, to his horror, that billboards featuring him in a mortifying pose will soon be on view throughout the U.S. On the beach, he meets a tourist with a metal detector who explains that parents should not rely on children for their own personal gain. \n\nIn Alaska he settles into an Inuit village, where his prospective parents send their elderly grandfather out to sea on an ice floe so that he may die with dignity. As the long, dark winter begins to envelop Alaska, North realizes that his summer is almost up. Meanwhile, his real parents, still comatose, are put on display in a museum. North's quest has stimulated children around the world to leave their parents, and to hire Belt and Winchell, who are both now rich and powerful.\n\nNorth’s next family is Amish, but he is quickly discouraged by the size of their family (and the lack of electricity). His experiences in Zaire, China, and Paris are equally fruitless. At last, back in America, he finds the Nelsons, who give North the attention and appreciation he craves; but he still is not happy. \"The Nelsons are good folks,” says a sleigh driver. “They're just not \"your\" folks.\"\n\nIn despair, North finds himself in New York City, where Winchell and Belt, fearing the demise of their lucrative business, plot to assassinate him. On the run, North receives a videotape from his newly revived parents begging him to forgive them and return home. Standup comedian Joey Fingers encourages him to do so: \"A bird in the hand is always greener than the grass under the other guy's bushes.\" At the airport, his path is blocked by a mob of kids who have followed his example, and are angry that he is giving up and going home, so North is forced to ship himself home in a FedEx box. He reaches his house just in time to beat the orphanage deadline; but as he runs toward his parents, an assassin takes aim. As he squeezes the trigger, North awakens in the mall, now empty. The Easter Bunny takes him home, where he is greeted warmly by his parents, who have been worried while he has been gone. It has all been a dream—but in his pocket, North discovers Gabby’s silver dollar with the hole through the middle. North says he has always had it, \"for good luck\".\n\n\nOn review aggregator site Rotten Tomatoes, \"North\" received a rating of 14% based on 34 reviews, with an average rating of 3.2/10. The site's critics' consensus reads, \"Laden with schmaltz and largely bereft of evident narrative purpose, \"North\" represents an early major disappointment from previously sure-handed director Rob Reiner.\"\n\n\"North\" has been called one of the worst films ever made, earning only $7,182,747 on a $40 million budget. Kenneth Turan stated in his review \"The problem overall is not so much that the humor, especially in the parent-tryout situations, is forced, but that it simply is not there at all. So little is going on in this mildest of fantasies that it is hard to even guess what kinds of emotional effects were aimed at in the first place.\" Turan also asked \"How could director Rob Reiner, whose touch for what pleases a mass audience is usually unfailing, have strayed this far?\"\n\n\"North\" was a multiple nominee at the 15th Golden Raspberry Awards in six categories including Worst Picture and Worst Director for Rob Reiner.\n\nIn an interview with Archive of American Television, Reiner defended the film, saying: \n\nFilm critic Roger Ebert seemed especially baffled by \"North\", noting that Wood and especially Reiner had both previously made much better films. He suggested that the film was so poorly written that even the best child actor would look bad in it, and viewed it as \"some sort of lapse\" on Reiner's part. Ebert awarded \"North\" a rare zero-star rating, and even 20 years later it remained on his list of most hated films.\n\nComedian Richard Belzer, who appeared in \"North\", goaded Reiner into reading aloud some of the review at Reiner's roast; Reiner jokingly insisted that \"if you read between the lines, [the review] isn't really that bad.\" An abridged version of the remark quoted above became the title of a 2000 book by Ebert, \"I Hated, Hated, Hated This Movie\", a compilation of reviews of films most disliked by Ebert.\n\nEbert and his co-host on \"Siskel and Ebert\", Gene Siskel, both pronounced it the worst film of 1994 — a decision they each came to independently. In their original review, Ebert called it \"one of the most thoroughly hateful movies in recent years. A movie that makes me cringe even when I'm sitting here thinking about it.\" He later added, \"I hated this movie as much as any movie we have ever reviewed in the 19 years we've been doing this show. I hated it because of the premise, which seems shockingly cold-hearted, and because this premise is being suggested to \"kids\" as children's entertainment and because everybody in the movie was vulgar and stupid, and because the jokes weren't funny and because most of the characters were obnoxious and because of the phony attempt to add a little pseudo-hip philosophy with a Bruce Willis character.\" Siskel continued by saying \"I think you gotta hold Rob Reiner's feet to the fire here. I mean, he's the guy in charge, he's saying this is entertainment, it's deplorable. There isn't a gag that works. You couldn't write worse jokes if I told you to write worse jokes. The ethnic stereotyping is appalling, it's embarrassing, you feel unclean as you're sitting there. It's junk. First class junk!\" and finished his statement with \"Any subject could be done well, this is just trash, Roger.\" Ebert's future co-host on \"Ebert and Roeper\", Richard Roeper, would later go on to list \"North\" as one of the 40 worst movies he's ever seen, stating, \"Of all the films on this list, \"North\" may be the most difficult to watch from start to finish. I've tried twice and failed. Do yourself a favor and don't even bother. Life is too short.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "54824334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54824334", "title": "Orbi Dubai", "text": "Orbi Dubai\n\nOrbi Dubai is an interactive visitor attraction in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, which opened on 7th May 2017. Created by Japanese technology firm SEGA in collaboration with BBC Worldwide and Dubai shopping mall operator Majid Al Futtaim, this is the third Orbi attraction in the world and the first to open outside of Japan.\n\nOrbi Dubai’s official opening event on 7th May 2017 was attended by representatives from SEGA, the BBC and Majid Al Futtaim Leisure and Entertainment, as well as Orbi’s Nature Ambassador, the explorer Nabil Al Busaidi.\n\n"}
{"id": "1559309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1559309", "title": "Pucca", "text": "Pucca\n\nPucca (; ) is a media franchise from the South Korean company VOOZ Character System. The main and titular character, Pucca, is the niece of three Korean noodle house owners. The noodle house, known as the \"Goh-Rong\", is located in Sooga Village, a small village in the mountains. Pucca is also in love with the ninja Garu (가루 ), who is mostly shy to share his feelings back to her. Pucca always seems to beat him in combat and unintentional competition simply by sheer will.\n\nOriginally, Pucca was an \"animated online e-card service\" made in 2000 by the company \"VOOZ\". The popularity of the e-card increased so rapidly in both Korea and the rest of Asia that it was licensed by Jetix in 2004, who also acquired television rights for the service. VOOZ went on to continue working with Jetix, making the original two and a half minute long animated shorts, which were then aired on both the Jetix website and as in-between full cartoon show shorts on the Jetix television channel. Pucca shorts were also often featured on the channel for MTV. Jetix's director of international licensing, Richard Woolf, stated that \"the possibilities with Pucca were immediately apparent, especially because you were left wanting more after watching the original shorts\".\n\nMore episodes were ordered by Jetix after the success of the initial shorts, with Studio B Productions in charge of making them. The new episodes became more fleshed out to depict Pucca as being a real television series, with more extensive plot being involved and some of the non-speaking characters gaining voices, along with the length of the episodes being extended to seven minutes in total. The new episodes were shown on many of Jetix's worldwide channels.\n\nAfter the success of the show in television, Jetix began branching out into accessories and toys in order to bring in further revenue from the, now, franchise. These new products included \"apparel, accessories, housewares, giftware, and stationery\" focused largely on attracting younger teenagers. Since then, the age demographic has expanded to include younger children through the creation of various toy lines and older teenagers through the publishing of video games set in the Pucca universe.\n\nIn 2008, Pucca was licensed out to the Access Licensing Group that involved a \"merchandising license agreement in North America\". This would allow the ALG to begin making Pucca products for sale in the US and it was hoped that Pucca would act as a challenge to the Disney Corporation.\n\nPucca was also licensed out to Warner Bros. Consumer Products (WBCP) in 2009. Utilizing this, WBCP started a promotional activity on Valentine's Day in France and Italy, where \"flowers and Pucca press packs were sent to key journalists.\" A greater amount of advertising has also been started throughout the regions at various trade shows and there are currently plans to expand this to include shows in Germany and Spain.\n\nAdvertising in magazines has also become more prolific through WBCP, with a \"full-page Pucca ad...published in Italian Vanity Fair\". Despite giving away Pucca toys through Burger King and other efforts, the market for Pucca items has been slow to advance in the UK, but has been placed under a \"period of intensive consumer research that will determine the long-term marketing strategy for the brand\" both there and in other markets that have been slow to accept the Pucca franchise.\n\nWarner Bros. Consumer Products also exhibited Pucca merchandise during the 2010 New York Fashion Week. Titled the PUCCA Capsule Collection, it was revealed at Curve Boutique on Robertson Boulevard in Los Angeles. A number of Hollywood celebrities were in attendance for the show, along with the founder of Pucca, Boo Kyoung Kim. A number of different designs from various high-profile fashion designers were exhibited at the showing for the PUCCA Capsule Collection.\n\nA new clothing brand, titled \"EXR Loves PUCCA\", has started in Korea. The Wonder Girls are acting as models for the brand, which will also involve 17 other fashionistas that will be designing the clothing line. The line is a collaboration project between the Pucca franchise and the Korean clothing company EXR.\n\nIn the initial period, Pucca was an online animated series made with Macromedia Flash by original company VOOZ Co., Ltd.. Many of its greeting cards and Flash episodes center around Pucca's comical attempts to steal a kiss from Garu and the competition at times between the two characters. There is little to no dialogue in these Flash cartoons so that fans all over the world can enjoy them.\n\nThere is also an ongoing manhwa series in Korea of Pucca and Garu traveling around the world through an enchanted board game. Their fellow travelers include friends Abyo, Ching, Ssoso, and villains Tobe and the Vagabond Ninja Clan. It has been translated into Chinese, Spanish, and German.\n\nThere is a WiiWare game called \"Pucca's Kisses Game\", which is an action-platformer about Pucca trying to chase Garu around perilous levels and obstacles just to catch Garu and kiss him. This game was developed by Otaboo, and was published by BigBen Interactive. \"Pucca's Kisses Game\" was released in Europe and Australia on February 4, 2011, and in North America on February 14, 2011 for 800 Wii Points. On February 14, 2011, the game was re-released in Europe as a retail disc entitled \"Pucca's Race for Kisses\" for the Wii console.\n\nAnother game, developed for iOS, called \"Pucca n' Friends\", was developed by Mob Crete. The game lets players play as Pucca as she prepares food and serves it to her customers, growing her restaurant as the game continues.\n\nThe game title, \"Pucca Power Up\", was announced by Rising Star Games was released in May 13, 2011 for the Nintendo DS. The game is being made with a partnership between the pre-mentioned game company and the franchise's creator, \"Vooz\". It is set for a release in the UK and, likely, in Australia, but no general European release was initially announced. Later, Rising Star Games announced that the release would be for the entire PAL region, with the game arriving in the UK first. The game was released in Europe on May 13, 2011 and in North America on September 13, 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "698242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=698242", "title": "Red Dragon (2002 film)", "text": "Red Dragon (2002 film)\n\nRed Dragon is a 2002 horror film based on the novel of the same title by Thomas Harris. Anthony Hopkins stars as psychiatrist and serial killer, Dr. Hannibal Lecter. It is a prequel to \"The Silence of the Lambs\" (1991) and \"Hannibal\" (2001). The novel was originally adapted into the film \"Manhunter\" (1986).\n\nThe film was directed by Brett Ratner and written for the screen by Ted Tally, who also wrote the screenplay for \"The Silence of the Lambs\". Hopkins reprises Lecter, a role he played twice before in \"The Silence of the Lambs\" and \"Hannibal\", and Edward Norton as FBI agent Will Graham. The film also stars Ralph Fiennes, Harvey Keitel, Emily Watson, Mary-Louise Parker, and Philip Seymour Hoffman.\n\nIn 1980 Dr. Hannibal Lecter attends an orchestral performance of \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\" in Baltimore, Maryland. He is irritated by a flute player who repeatedly misses his part. Later, he hosts a dinner party in his townhouse for the orchestra's board of directors. During conversation, the disappearance of the flute player is brought up. When one of the guests asks about the dish Lecter made, he responds that if he tells her, she might not try it.\n\nLecter is visited by Will Graham, a gifted FBI agent who has the ability to empathize with psychopaths. Graham has been working with Lecter on a psychological profile of a serial killer. The killer removed edible body parts from his victims, leading Graham to believe him to be a cannibal. During the consultation, Graham discovers evidence implicating Lecter. Lecter immediately attacks Graham with a knife and almost disembowels him, but Graham impales Lecter with several arrows and then empties his handgun into him. Lecter is sentenced to life imprisonment in an institution for the criminally insane. Graham is deeply traumatized by the experience and retires from the FBI.\n\nSix years later, another serial killer, nicknamed The Tooth Fairy, appears. He has stalked and killed two entire families during sequential full moons. Special Agent Jack Crawford seeks a reluctant Graham's assistance in developing the killer's psychological profile. With the death of another family seemingly weeks away on the next full moon, Crawford guilt trips him into agreeing. After visiting the crime scenes and speaking with Crawford, Graham concludes that he must once again consult Lecter.\n\nThe Tooth Fairy is Francis Dolarhyde, who kills at the behest of his alternate personality whom he calls \"The Great Red Dragon\". He is obsessed with the William Blake painting \"The Great Red Dragon and the Woman Clothed in Sun\", and has the painting tattooed on his back. He believes that each victim he \"changes\" brings him closer to \"becoming\" the Dragon. His psychopathology was born from the severe abuse he suffered as a child at the hands of his sadistic grandmother.\n\nMeanwhile, Freddy Lounds, a tabloid reporter, who hounded Graham after Lecter's capture, follows him again for leads on The Tooth Fairy. There is a secret correspondence between Lecter and Dolarhyde. Graham's wife and son are endangered when Lecter gives The Tooth Fairy the agent's home address, forcing them to relocate to a farm owned by Crawford's brother. Hoping to lure out The Tooth Fairy, Graham gives Lounds an interview in which he disparages the killer as an impotent homosexual. This provokes Dolarhyde, who kidnaps Lounds and glues him to an antique wheelchair. Dolarhyde forces Lounds to recant his allegations, bites off his lips, and then sets him on fire outside his newspaper's offices.\n\nLater, at his job in a St. Louis photo lab, Dolarhyde falls in love with Reba McClane, a blind co-worker. He takes her home, where they make love. However, his alternate personality demands that he kill her. Desperate to stop the Dragon's \"possession\" of him, Dolarhyde goes to the Brooklyn Museum, tears apart the original Blake painting, and eats it.\n\nMeanwhile, Graham deduces that the killer knew the layout of his victim's houses from their home videos. He concludes that the killer works for the company that edits the home movies and transfers them to video. He starts searching the company processing plant and asks for the workers' personnel files, overheard by Dolarhyde as he returns from Brooklyn. Dolarhyde then leaves the plant unseen and goes to Reba's house.\n\nDolarhyde finds that she has spent the evening with a co-worker, Ralph Mandy, whom she actually dislikes. Enraged by this apparent betrayal, Dolarhyde kills Ralph, kidnaps Reba, takes her to his house, and then sets it on fire. Finding himself unable to shoot her, Dolarhyde apparently shoots himself. Reba is able to escape the house as the police arrive.\n\nDolarhyde, having used Ralph's corpse to stage his own death, turns up at Graham's home in Florida. He holds Graham's son hostage, threatening to kill him. To save his son, Graham slings insults at the boy, reminding Dolarhyde of his grandmother's abuse. Enraged, Dolarhyde attacks Graham. Both men are severely wounded in a shootout which ends only when Graham's wife kills Dolarhyde. Graham receives a letter from Lecter which praises him for stopping The Tooth Fairy, bids him well, and says they are going to cross paths soon.\n\nSome time later, Lecter's jailer, Dr. Frederick Chilton, tells him that he has a visitor, a young woman from the FBI. Lecter asks her name.\n\nRed Dragon: Original Motion Picture Soundtrack was composed by Danny Elfman, and produced by Mark Helfrich and Brett Ratner. Decca Records released it on September 24, 2002, in the United States and Canada.\n\n\"Red Dragon\" was released on October 4, 2002, and opened in 3,357 theaters in the United States, grossing $13,478,355 on its opening day and $36,540,945 on its opening weekend, ranking #1 with a per theater average of $10,885. On its second weekend, it remained #1 and grossed $17,655,750 – $5,250 per theater. By its third weekend it dropped down to #3 and made $8,763,545 – $2,649 per theater.\n\n\"Red Dragon\" grossed $93,149,898 in the United States and Canada and $116,046,400 overseas. In total, the film has grossed $209,196,298 worldwide.\n\nReview aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes gives a score of 69% based on reviews from 185 critics. The site's consensus says the film is \"competently made, but everything is a bit too familiar\", and it has an average score of 6.4/10, making the film \"fresh\" on the website's rating system. At Metacritic, which assigns a weighted mean rating out of 100 to reviews from mainstream critics, the film received an average score of 60% based on 36 reviews, which indicates \"mixed or average reviews\".\n\nRichard Corliss of \"Time\" gave the film a positive review, stating: \"This darkly seductive, flawlessly acted piece is worlds removed from most horror films. Here monsters have their grandeur, heroes their gravity. And when they collide, a dance of death ensues between two souls doomed to understand each other.\" Todd McCarthy of \"Variety\" also gave the film a positive review, saying that the \"audiences will be excused for any feelings of déjà vu the new film might inspire. That won't prevent them from watching it in rapt, anxious silence, however, as the gruesome crimes, twisted psychology and deterministic dread that lie at the heart of Harris' work are laid out with care and skill.\"\nRoger Ebert of \"Chicago Sun-Times\" gave the film 3 1/2 stars out of four, praising Brett Ratner's directing and the film's atmosphere. He stated: \"To my surprise, Ratner does a sure, stylish job, appreciating the droll humor of Lecter's predicament, creating a depraved new villain in the Tooth Fairy (Ralph Fiennes), and using the quiet, intense skills of Norton to create a character whose old fears feed into his new ones. There is also humor, of the uneasy he-can't-get-away-with-this variety, in the character of a nosy scandal-sheet reporter (Philip Seymour Hoffman).\"\nDavid Sterritt of \"Christian Science Monitor\" gave the film a positive review, stated that \"the most refreshing aspect of \"Red Dragon\" is its reliance on old-fashioned acting instead of computer-aided gizmos. Hopkins overdoes his role at times -- his vocal tones are almost campy -- but his piercing eyes are as menacing as ever, and Ralph Fiennes is scarily good as his fellow lunatic.\"\nDavid Grove of \"Film Threat\", who gave the film four stars out of five, said: \"Is \"Red Dragon\" a better film than \"Manhunter\"? I don't know. I think it stands on its own, but I wonder how much people who are intimately familiar with \"Manhunter\" will be shocked by it, although the ending is altogether different and much more realized, I think\".\nRick Kisonak, also for \"Film Threat\" has, like Grove, gave the film a positive review and three stars out of five, saying: \"The only downside to this delectable third course? The regrettable likelihood that Lecter fans will have to make do without dessert.\"\n\nEdward Guthmann of \"San Francisco Chronicle\", gave the film mixed review, saying that \"in Hollywood, where integrity is rapidly consumed and careers defined by market value, there's trash and there's trash with a pedigree.\" Stephanie Zacharek, for Salon, also gave the film a mixed review, stating: \"If you buy the overprocessed headcheese of the serial killer as refined genius, you'll love \"Red Dragon\". Or maybe not. Even Hannibal Lecter devotees may lose patience with this picture's grandiose, self-serious ponderousness -- that's Lecterese for, 'It's kind of boring in patches, actually.'\"\nWilliam Arnold of \"Seattle Post-Intelligencer\" who gave the film a mixed review, said that the film \"basically lives up to the old adage that the final work in a trilogy is invariably the weakest.\"\nMichael Atkinson of \"The Village Voice\" gave the film a negative review, he stated: \"\"Red Dragon\"s formula is so risible and rote by now that the natural reaction to scenes of peril, torture, and suffering is flippant laughter.\"\n\n\"Red Dragon\" was nominated for 13 awards, and won several, including Empire Award for Best British Actress (Emily Watson) and Young Artist Award for Best Performance in a Feature Film – Young Actor Age Ten or Younger (Tyler Patrick Jones).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28179813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28179813", "title": "Red Ladder Theatre Company", "text": "Red Ladder Theatre Company\n\nRed Ladder Theatre Company is a national touring theatre company, funded by the Arts Council England and Leeds City Council. It is based at the Yorkshire Dance Centre, Leeds.\n\nThe company was founded in London in 1968, during the Vietnam War, as a radical socialist theatre known as \"agitprop\". The company moved to Leeds in the 1970s and is still based in the city. During the 1980s, the company changed its co-operative structure to a hierarchy and became a company that specialised in targeted work for youth audiences.\n\nRed Ladder also hosted the Asian Theatre School, later Freedom Studios, preparing productions including the play \"Silent Cry\" by Madani Younis\npresented at the Theatre Royal, York (2004).\n\nIn 2011, it ran a play called \"Promised Land\", an adaptation of Anthony Clavane's book about Leeds United.\n\nToday the company:\n\nRed Ladder's Arts Council funding will cease from April 2015. In response to a fundraising campaign to save the company, author David Peace has donated the theatre rights to his novel \"The Damned Utd\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3337801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3337801", "title": "Reference Re Alberta Statutes", "text": "Reference Re Alberta Statutes\n\nReference Re Alberta Statutes, also known as the Alberta Press case and the Alberta Press Act Reference, is a landmark reference of the Supreme Court of Canada where several provincial laws, including one restricting the press, were struck down and the existence of an implied bill of rights protecting civil liberties such as a free press was first proposed.\n\nThe province of Alberta, under the Social Credit government of William Aberhart had passed several laws as part of a series of reforms inspired by social credit economic theory. Arising from the 1937 Social Credit backbenchers' revolt, the Legislative Assembly of Alberta passed several Acts to implement the Social Credit agenda, to which royal assent was given:\n\nIn August 1937, the federal government disallowed all three Acts. The Supreme Court of Canada, in answering reference questions posed by the federal government, unanimously ruled that such disallowance was valid.\n\nFollowing the disallowance, the Alberta legislature passed the following bills in October 1937:\n\nAll bills were reserved by Lieutenant-Governor John C. Bowen. As a result, the federal government posed the following reference questions to the Supreme Court as to whether it was \"intra vires\" the provincial legislature to pass any of those measures.\n\nAll six members of the Court declared the subject matter of all the bills as \"ultra vires\" the province. In addition, the Court ruled 5-0 (Cannon J expressing no opinion) that the \"Alberta Social Credit Act\" was unconstitutional as well, as it attempted to intrude on the federal powers relating to currency, banks and banking, and trade and commerce.\n\nAs to the \"Accurate News and Information Act\", five of the six justices stated that, since the press bill was ancillary to the \"Alberta Social Credit Act\" which had been ruled \"ultra vires\", the press bill was automatically as well, while Cannon J considered the subject matter of the bill to be solely under federal jurisdiction. In their concurring opinion for the majority, Duff CJ and Davis J argued that press freedom was too important to be left entirely to the provinces. The three judges argued that the preamble of the \"British North America Act, 1867\", which states that Canada has a constitution similar to that of the United Kingdom, implies that freedom of the press is vital to Canada's democratic system.\n\nThe Board declared that, as the \"Alberta Social Credit Act\" had been subsequently repealed by the Alberta legislature, Bills 8 and 9 could not be brought into operation, as their provisions were contingent on actions of the now-abolished Social Credit Board. Therefore, the question was moot, and they expressed no opinion on them.\n\nAs to Bill 1, the Board agreed with the opinion of Kerwin J (concurred in by Crocket J) that:\n\nAccordingly, the bill was in pith and substance a measure to regulate banking, and was thus \"ultra vires\" the province.\n\nThe SCC ruling was one of the foundation cases leading to the recognition of an Implied Bill of Rights in Canadian constitutional law.\n"}
{"id": "3032904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3032904", "title": "Reframing (filmmaking)", "text": "Reframing (filmmaking)\n\nIn film, reframing is a change in camera angle without a cut and can include changing the focus of the scene. The term has been more often used in film criticism than in actual cinema. Critics of the technique include André Bazin among others.\n\nIn production or post-production, reframing can be used to change a sequence without having to reshoot. For example, zooming in on an actor to edit out nudity for a movie to be broadcast over the air.\n\nTypes of reframing can include: pan, tilt, zoom, crane or boom shot, dolly or trucking shot, handheld shot, tracking shot, and steadycam shot.\n\n"}
{"id": "34321481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34321481", "title": "Robocon India", "text": "Robocon India\n\nRobocon (short for Robotic Contest) is organised by Asia-Pacific Broadcasting Union (ABU), a collection of over 20 countries of Asia Pacific Region. NHK, Japan had already been organising such contests at national level and also became the host of the first ABU Robocon in 2002. Since then, every year one of the member broadcasters hosts this international event. \n\nThe broadcasters of each participant country are responsible for conduct of their national contests to select the team which will represent their country in the International Contest. Teams from Engineering and Technological colleges are eligible for participation. Participating Teams are expected to design and fabricate their own robots and organize their teams including an Instructor, Team Leader, Manual Robot Operator and an Automatic Robot Operator.\n\nDoordarshan, the national public service broadcaster organises National Robocon event every year and the winning team gets an opportunity to represent India at the international competition. First Robocon was held in 2002, in which only 3 teams had participated at IIT Kanpur. Going from strength to strength, this number has reached 66 in Indian National Robocon 2012 and 107 in 2018 held at the Boxing Arena of Shree Shiv Chhatrapati Sports Complex, Balewadi, Pune. \n\nMumbai Kendra of Doordarshan has been organising National Robocon since 2005 with support from co hosts MIT Group of Educational Institutes. The initiative was taken by Mr Mukesh Sharma, the Director of Doordarshan Kendra Mumbai and Dr Sunil Karad, Executive Director of MIT Group of Institutions Pune, with approval of Dr Vishwanath D Karad, Founding Director General of MIT Group Pune.\n\nEvery year finals of Robocon India are held on First Saturday of March. The best engineering institutes across the country compete with each other for the honour of representing Indian National team at the International version of the competition for 3 gruelling days.\nElimination rounds are held on days preceding the First Saturday of March. This routine schedule been fixed in India through mutual consultations of participating colleges and Doordarshan of India. International Contests are held in August every year when the national contests of all the countries have been completed and their representatives selected. The host country has the privilege of fielding two teams. India hosted its first international contest in August 2008 in the MIT Sports grounds, Pune. In 2014 again, India hosted the international contest on August 24. For last four years the National Robotics Championship has been organized in the famous Shree Shiv Chhatrapati Sports Complex, Mahalunge, Balewadi, Pune by a joint collaboration of Doordarshan and Maharashtra Institute of Technology Academy Of Engineering (MITAOE), Alandi, Pune.\n\nBeing the leading broadcaster in India, Doordarshan has been instrumental in providing wide coverage and public reach to Robocon.\n\nThe National ABU Robocon 2018 was held in the Badminton Hall of the Shree Shiv Chhatrapati Sports Complex, Balewadi, Pune on the 1-3 March 2018. The theme for Robocon 2018 declared as \"ném còn\" (throwing shuttlecock). The goal of the game is to throw the shuttlecocks through the ring at height. In Vietnamese culture, the game is about celebration and making friendship.\n\nInstitute of Technology, Nirma University, Ahmedabad won the National ABU Robocon 2018 Contest. Maharashtra Institute of Technology, Pune, was the first runner-up and K J Somaiya Institute of Engineering and Information Technology, Mumbai, was the second runner up. \nL D Engineering College, Ahmedabad won the best idea award. \n\nThe National ABU Robocon 2017 took place in the Shri Shiv Chhatrapati Krida Sankul, Pune on 2–4 March 2017. The contest theme has been declared as \"Asobi : The Landing Disc”. College of Engineering, Pune won the National ABU Robocon 2017 Contest. Maharashtra Institute of Technology, Pune, was the first runner-up.\n\nThe National ABU Robocon 2016 took place in the Shri Shiv Chhatrapati Krida Sankul, Pune on 3–5 March 2016. The theme for Robocon 2016 has been declared as 'Chai-Yo : Clean Energy Recharging the World'. Vadodara Institute of Engineering, Vadodara won the National ABU Robocon 2016 Contest. College of Engineering, Pune, was the first runner-up.\n\nThe National ABU Robocon 2015 took place in the Badminton Hall of the Shree Shiv Chhatrapati Sports Complex, Balewadi, Pune on 7 March 2015. The theme for Robocon 2015 has been declared by Televisi Republik Indonesia (TVRI) as \"Robomintion: Badmintion Robo-Game\". Institute of Technology, Nirma University, Gujarat won the National ABU Robocon 2015 Contest. Krishna Institute Of Engineering And Technology (KIET), Ghaziabad were the first runners-up.Muffakham Jah College of Engineering and Technology (MJCET) stood 3rd in the country and was also awarded the ‘Best Design and Aesthetics’ robot at the Asia Pacific Broadcasting Union Robotics Contest (ABU Robocon) 2015 held at Maharashtra Institute of Technology, Pune.\n\nThe National ABU Robocon 2014 was held in the Badminton Hall of the Shree Shiv Chhatrapati Sports Complex, Balewadi, Pune on the 6, 7 & 8 March 2014. The theme for Robocon 2014 declared by MITAOE was \"A SALUTE TO PARENTHOOD\". Institute of Technology, Nirma University, Gujarat won the National Contest while Veermata Jijabai Technological Institute (VJTI), Mumbai were the First Runner-up. Both these Institutes got the chance to represent India in the International Contest. MIT Robocon Tech Team representing Maharashtra Institute of Technology, Pune were the Second Runner-up.\n\nThe International ABU Robocon 2014 was held in India.Lạc Hồng University, Vietnam won the International ABU Robocon 2014 held at Balewadi, Pune.\n\nThe National ABU Robocon 2013 was held in the Badminton Hall of the Shree Shiv Chhatrapati Sports Complex, Balewadi, Pune. MIT Tech Team from Maharashtra Institute of Technology won the contest and represented India in the international contest.\n\nThe International ABU Robocon 2013 was held in Danang, Vietnam. The Theme for Robocon 2013 declared by VTV was \"The Green Planet\".\nThe International ABU Robocon 2013 was won by Kanazawa Institute of Technology, Japan.\n\nThe National ABU Robocon 2012 was held in the Boxing Arena of The Shree Shiv Chhatrapati Sports Complex, Balewadi, Pune. MIT Tech Team from Maharashtra Institute of Technology won the contest and represented India in the international contest.and L.D College of Engineering won the best inovative design award. \n\nThe Theme for Robocon 2012 declared by Hong Kong, \"Peng On Dai Gat\".\nIt was won by University of Electronic Science and Technology of China.\n\nThe Theme for Robocon 2011 declared by Thailand was Krathong, Lighting Happiness with Friendship. \nIt was won by Institute of Technology, Nirma University and this institute got a chance to represent India at International Robocon 2011.\nThe winner was Dhurakij Pundit University coming from Thailand.\n\nThe Theme for Robocon 2010 declared by Egypt was Robo-Pharaohs Build Pyramids. \nIt was won by MIT Robocon Tech Team from MIT Pune.\n\nTheme of Kago, the traditional Japanese palanquin, carried by human beings replaced by robots.\nIt was won by IIT Madras.\n\nThe Theme for Robocon2008 declared by India was Govinda, a traditional Indian Deity who used to play earthly games by capturing Butter/Cheese from heads of Gopis.\nIt was won by Institute of Technology, Nirma University. Runner-up was MIT Robocon Tech Team from MIT Pune. Both team got to represent India in ABU Robocon as host country gets an opportunity to be represented by two teams.\n\nThe domestic contest was won by IIT Delhi.\n\nThe domestic contest was won by Institute of Technology, Nirma University.\n\nThe domestic contest was won by Institute of Technology, Nirma University.\n\nThe domestic contest was won by Institute of Technology, Nirma University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3192763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3192763", "title": "SelecTV (Australian television)", "text": "SelecTV (Australian television)\n\nSelecTV was an Australian satellite based subscription television broadcasting service. As of January 2011, the service is no longer available. Services were carried on the Intelsat 8 satellite.\n\nSelecTV was created in Melbourne in October 2003 by Jim Blomfield, a former chief executive officer of Foxtel, as i-view Broadcasting Pty, Ltd. It underwent multiple name changes, before finally being renamed as SelecTV Broadcasting Limited in October 2005. The companies focus was to provide comparatively low-cost premium content to specialist market segments, including Australians whose first language was other than English and retirees. In August 2006, WIN Corporation purchased 50.1% of the company for $23 million, acquiring overall company control. By April 2006, the company said it had approximately 2,000 subscribers. WIN Corporation saw opportunity in the companies rapid expansion, and direct competition to the Australian subscription television giant Foxtel, acquiring the remaining 49.9% from Access Providers in October 2006. The company expanded its programming to over 40 television channels consisting of English-language channels, as well as various programming packages comprising foreign-language and special interest channels in Greek, Spanish, Italian, German, and Vietnamese. By 2009, due to low subscription to their language packages, SelecTV discontinued all German and Vietnamese programming.\n\nBy June 2010, the company had approximately 45,000 subscribers, well short of its target of 80,000. Despite expanding their English language services, SelecTV failed to meet subscriber targets. In August 2010, it was reported that the company would cease broadcasting English programming by 15 November 2010. On 20 August 2010, SelecTV signed an agreement allowing its 22,000 English subscribers to voluntarily change to Foxtel and Austars subscription services without additional charges. On 30 August 2010, SelecTV sold their Italian language programming to World Media International and in October their Spanish language programming to UBI World TV.\n\nIn its final days, SelecTV provided subscription packages for Greek programming.\nOn 4 February 2011 SelecTV went into voluntary administration. On 7 February 2011 a creditors meeting was held where the company revealed that it was in debt of $26 million. The channel is no longer available in Australia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "896007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=896007", "title": "Shilparatna", "text": "Shilparatna\n\nShilparatna is a classical text on traditional South Indian representational-performing arts. It is particularly influential in painting and theatrical performance. It was authored by Srikumara in 16th century AD. In this the word \"Shilpa\" (sculptural) \"Ratna\" (Gems) is used as a broad term embodying artistic forms that either uses the body as a medium of expression (like Dance, Drama or Dance-Drama) or that which represents the body as an expression (like Sculptures and mural arts). It ranks only after the Natya Shastra and the Abhinaya Darpana as a text of fundamentals on the performing arts. \n\nIt lays down the tenets of painting such as the proper set of colours and the right combinations which leads to stylized balance and rhythm. It is adhered to as principles in South Indian paintings known as Dravidian mural art or Dravidian mural painting. The text describes yellow, white, red and terreVerte as the pure colours. These colours could be used as single colours or in combinations to make another chroma. \n\nThe shilparatna also lays down principles for stage performance, like the optimal space for a performance. The \"NatyaGriha\" (classical Dance spaces and theatres), \"Natya\" (Postural dance) and \"Griha\" (house) in kerala is made according to these principles and those laid down by the Natya Shastra. It describes the elaborate codified language of \"mudras\" (stylized gestures and symbolic signs by the hands and body posture used in Bharatanatyam and Kathakali) as \"angikabhinaya\" meaning body-expressions.\n"}
{"id": "58115850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58115850", "title": "Society Secrets", "text": "Society Secrets\n\nSociety Secrets is a 1921 American silent satire film, directed by Leo McCarey. It stars Eva Novak, Gertrude Claire, and George Verrell, and was released in February, 1921.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36688381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36688381", "title": "Spurs Sports &amp; Entertainment", "text": "Spurs Sports &amp; Entertainment\n\nSpurs Sports & Entertainment L.L.C. (SS&E) is an American sports & entertainment organization, based in San Antonio, Texas. The company owns and operates several sporting franchises including the 5-time National Basketball Association (NBA) champions San Antonio Spurs, the American Hockey League (AHL)'s San Antonio Rampage, NBA G League's Austin Spurs, and the United Soccer League (USL) club San Antonio FC. SS&E also operates the Bexar County-owned multi-purpose facility, the AT&T Center.\n\nA 2013 \"Forbes\" article called the San Antonio Spurs \"North America's best run professional sports franchise,\" and ESPN named the Spurs as the best sports franchise in all major sports in 2014. It was the third time the Spurs received the ESPN honor, and the franchise has ranked in the Top 10 every year since the survey was introduced in 2003.\n\nThe San Antonio Spurs are an American professional basketball team based in San Antonio, Texas. They are part of the Southwest Division of the Western Conference in the National Basketball Association (NBA). They were NBA champions in 1999, 2003, 2005, 2007, and 2014.\n\nThe Spurs are one of four former American Basketball Association teams to remain intact in the NBA after the 1976 ABA–NBA merger and the only former ABA team to have won an NBA championship. The Spurs' five NBA championships are the fourth most in history behind only the Boston Celtics (17), Los Angeles Lakers (16), and Chicago Bulls (6). The Spurs currently rank first among active franchises for the highest winning percentage in NBA history.\n\nIn their 38 NBA seasons since 1976–1977, the Spurs have won 20 division titles. They have made the playoffs in 24 of the last 25 seasons (since 1989–1990) and have missed the playoffs four times since entering the NBA; they have not missed the playoffs in the 18 seasons since Tim Duncan was drafted by the Spurs in 1997. With their 50th win in the 2014–2015 season, the Spurs extended their record for most consecutive 50+ win seasons to 16 (the 1998/1999 season was shortened to 50 games because of a lockout and based on their win percentage of .740, would have easily surpassed 50 wins in an 82-game season, and thus extend the record by 2 more seasons). Thus, since the 1997/1998 season, the Spurs have had 21 consecutive seasons with a winning percentage of .610 or greater during the regular season which is also an NBA record.\n\nThe AT&T Center is a multi-purpose indoor arena on the east side of San Antonio, Texas. It seats 18,581 for basketball, 16,000 for ice hockey, and up to 19,000 for concerts or religious gatherings, and contains 2,018 club seats, 60 luxury suites and 32 bathrooms.\n\nThe arena was completed in 2002, as the SBC Center. While Bexar County owns the arena, SS&E is partnered with the county to manage the day-to-day operations of the AT&T Center.\n\nThe AT&T Center is undergoing a renovation of more than $100 million, with improvements that include expanded entrances, renovated concourses, new concessions and bar areas, a larger Fan Shop and a new HD video scoreboard. Renovations are scheduled to be completed before the 2015-16 season.\n\nThe San Antonio Rampage are an ice hockey team in the American Hockey League. They are the top affiliate of the Colorado Avalanche of the NHL. The Rampage has played in the AT&T Center in San Antonio, the same arena as the Spurs, since the 2002-03 season.\n\nWhile the Spurs are SS&E's flagship franchise, attendance continues to climb for the Rampage.\n\nThe team set franchise records for wins and points in the 2014-15 season.\n\nSan Antonio FC are an American professional soccer team based in San Antonio, Texas. Founded in 2016, the team debuted in the United Soccer League that same year. It was announced as the league's thirty-first franchise on January 7, 2016. SS&E also operate Toyota Field.\n\nThe Austin Spurs are an American basketball team of the NBA G League based in Austin, Texas.\n\nThe team plays their home games at Cedar Park Center. They have made the postseason 7 out of their 12 seasons in the NBA Development League/G League, winning the D League/G League Championship in twice in the 2012 and 2018 seasons. The team is currently coached by Ken McDonald.\n\nFormer Austin Spurs in the NBA include Danny Green, Cory Joseph, Gerald Green and Alonzo Gee.\n\nSpurs Sports & Entertainment listed the following partners as of October 2014:\nThe nonprofit partner of SS&E is Silver & Black Give Back, a 501(c)(3) that sponsors two key initiatives, Team Up Challenge, a service-based learning program, and youth sports programs such as the Spurs Youth League.\n\nThe San Antonio Stars played in the Western Conference in the Women's National Basketball Association (WNBA). The team was founded in Salt Lake City, Utah as the Utah Starzz before the league's inaugural 1997 season began; the team moved to San Antonio before the 2003 season.\n\nThe Stars qualified for the WNBA Playoffs in seven of their twelve years in San Antonio. The franchise while in San Antonio was home to many high-quality players such as all-star point guard Becky Hammon, solid power forward Sophia Young, two #1 overall draft picks in Ann Wauters and Kelsey Plum, and seven-foot-two-inch center Margo Dydek. In 2008, the Silver Stars went to the WNBA Finals.\n\nOn August 5, 2014, Hammon was hired by the Spurs as an assistant coach, becoming the second female assistant coach in NBA history but the first full-time assistant coach. This also made her the first full-time female assistant coach in any of the four major professional sports in North America.\n\nIn October 2017, multiple media reports indicated that SS&E was nearing completion of the sale of the Stars to a group that would move the team to Las Vegas for the 2018 season and beyond. The team was sold to MGM Resorts International and moved to Las Vegas prior to the 2018 WNBA season, and is now known as the Las Vegas Aces.\n"}
{"id": "57348847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57348847", "title": "The 9/11 Commission Report (film)", "text": "The 9/11 Commission Report (film)\n\nThe 9/11 Commission Report is a 2006 drama film produced by the Asylum. It was written and directed by Leigh Scott and released June 2006.\n\nThe movie is a dramatization of the findings laid out in The 9/11 Commission Report, a document that sought to analyze the circumstances surrounding coordinated terrorist attacks against American civilians on Sept 11 2001. \n\n\nFilm Monthly stated that the film \"has quality, and in spades. “The 9/11 Commission Report” is a surprisingly clever piece of historical dramatization\" \n"}
{"id": "46896047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46896047", "title": "The Bunker (comics)", "text": "The Bunker (comics)\n\n\"The Bunker\" is a comic book written by Joshua Hale Fialkov with artwork by Joe Infurnari.\n\nA pilot television episode was announced to have been written for Lionsgate TV.\n\nThe world population is dying, and those responsible send a bunker back in time to warn their younger selves, in order to prevent it.\n\nIt was highly recommended by Ain't It Cool News. Newsarama gave it a 9 out of 10. Bleeding Cool called it “A beautiful comic.” Comic Vine gave it 5 stars. Kotaku called it \"a great, tense read with a killer twist ending that will have you aching for more.\"\n"}
{"id": "11810593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11810593", "title": "The Entertainment Quarter", "text": "The Entertainment Quarter\n\nThe Entertainment Quarter is an entertainment precinct in the Eastern Suburbs of Sydney, Australia. The Entertainment Quarter sits beside Fox Studios Australia in the suburb of Moore Park, located 3 kilometres south-east of the Sydney central business district and is part of local government area of the City of Sydney.\n\nThe precinct features many specialty shops, bars, cafes, restaurants, two cinemas (both owned by Hoyts), live entertainment venues including a comedy store and function centre, children's playground, parklands and entertainment sporting facilities such as ten pin bowling and an ice rink during winter. \n\nThe Showring hosts a Farmer's Market on Wednesdays and Saturdays and a Merchandise Market on Saturdays and Sundays. Retailers include music retailer Sanity, and fashion stores Esprit and Bay Swiss.\n\nThe Entertainment Quarter and Fox Studios Australia, were originally the site of Royal Agricultural Society of New South Wales Sydney Showground which hosted the annual Sydney Royal Easter Show. The Sydney Showground moved to Homebush Bay in preparation for the 2000 Summer Olympics. Some of the venues built for the Olympic Games are now used for the annual show.\n\nFox Studios Australia and the entertainment precinct opened at Moore Park in 1998. A theme park at this location was closed and some of the facilities have found new uses in 'The Entertainment Quarter'. \n\n"}
{"id": "3134175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3134175", "title": "The Zoo Story", "text": "The Zoo Story\n\nThe Zoo Story is a one-act play by American playwright Edward Albee. His first play, it was written in 1958 and completed in just three weeks. The play explores themes of isolation, loneliness, miscommunication as anathematization, social disparity and dehumanization in a materialistic world. Today, professional theatre companies can produce \"The Zoo Story\" either as a part of \"Edward Albee's at Home at the Zoo\" (originally titled \"Peter and Jerry\"), or as a standalone play. Its prequel, \"Homelife\" written in 2004, however, can only be produced as a part of \"Edward Albee's at Home at the Zoo\".\n\nRejected by New York producers, the play premiered in West Berlin at the Schiller Theater \"Werkstatt\" on 28 September 1959 in a double bill with the German premiere of Samuel Beckett's \"Krapp's Last Tape\".\n\nThe play premiered in the United States Off-Broadway in a production by Theatre 1960 at the Provincetown Playhouse on January 14, 1960 and closed on May 21, 1961. The play was paired with \"Krapp's Last Tape\". Directed by Milton Katselas, the cast was William Daniels (Peter) and George Maharis (Jerry). who was replaced by Peter Mark Richman (then known as Mark Richman) after a week. Daniels and Richman performed to rave reviews for more than nine months. The play won the 1960 Obie Award for Distinguished Play and Distinguished Performance, William Daniels. (Michael Karlan replaced Mark Richman for 6 weeks when Richman left the show to shoot a film.)\n\nThis one-act play concerns two characters, Peter and Jerry, who meet on a park bench in New York City's Central Park. Peter is a wealthy publishing executive with a wife, two daughters, two cats, and two parakeets. Jerry is an isolated and disheartened man, desperate to have a meaningful conversation with another human being. He intrudes on Peter’s peaceful state by interrogating him and forcing him to listen to stories about his life and the reason behind his visit to the zoo. The action is linear, unfolding in front of the audience in “real time”. The elements of ironic humor and unrelenting dramatic suspense are brought to a climax when Jerry brings his victim down to his own savage level.\n\nEventually, Peter has had enough of his strange companion and tries to leave. Jerry begins pushing Peter off the bench and challenges him to fight for his territory. Unexpectedly, Jerry pulls a knife on Peter, and then drops it as initiative for Peter to grab. When Peter holds the knife defensively, Jerry charges him and impales himself on the knife. Bleeding on the park bench, Jerry finishes his \"zoo story\" by bringing it into the immediate present: \"Could I have planned all this. No... no, I couldn't have. But I think I did.\" Horrified, Peter runs away from Jerry, whose dying words, \"Oh...my...God\", are a combination of scornful mimicry and supplication.\n\nAlbee wrote a prequel to \"The Zoo Story\", titled \"Homelife\". \"Homelife\" is written as the first act, with \"The Zoo Story\" as the second act, in a new play called \"Edward Albee's At Home at the Zoo\" (initially titled \"Peter & Jerry\"). \"Homelife\" was first read publicly at the Last Frontier Theatre Conference.\n\nChristopher Wallenberg wrote of \"The Zoo Story\": \"Over the years, he'd [Albee] always had a nagging feeling that something was missing from the piece’s unsettling encounter between two very different men on a Central Park bench ...\" Albee said: \"\"The Zoo Story\" is a good play. It's a play that I'm very happy I wrote. But it's a play with one and a half characters. Jerry is a fully developed, three-dimensional character. But Peter is a backboard. He’s not fully developed. Peter had to be more fleshed out.\"\n\nThe two-act play \"Peter and Jerry\" had its world premiere at the Hartford Stage in 2004, with Pam MacKinnon directing and Frank Wood as Peter.\n\nThe play was produced Off-Broadway at the Second Stage Theatre in 2007, and starred Bill Pullman, Dallas Roberts and Johanna Day. It was titled \"Peter and Jerry\".\n\nThe play, titled \"Edward Albee's At Home at the Zoo\" played at American Conservatory Theatre in San Francisco in June 2009, with Anthony Fusco as Peter, René Augesen as his wife Ann, and Manoel Felciano as Jerry.\n\nAs of December 2009 it played in its Seattle premiere at Theater Schmeater.\n\n\"At Home at the Zoo\" had its premiere Pittsburgh production and was the inaugural show for the Ghostlight Theatre Troupe in Gibsonia, PA in July 2010. It starred Rich Kenzie as Peter, Mary Romeo as Ann and Ned Johnstone as Jerry and was directed by Gabe Herlinger.\n\n\"At Home at the Zoo\" opened on February 23, 2018 at New York's The Signature Theater, starring Katie Finneran, Robert Sean Leonard and Paul Sparks.\n\n\"The Zoo Story\" is referenced in the film \"Grumpy Old Men\".\n\n\"The Zoo Story\" is a central element in the novel \"Qiṣṣat hadīqat al-ḥayawān\" (The zoo story), by Moroccan playwright and novelist Yūsuf Fāḍil, published Dār al-Fanak, Casablanca, 2008, which deals with the milieu of actors and playwrights in 1970s Morocco and Moroccans in Paris. The two main characters of the novel, Al-Sīmū and Rašīd, want to perform a Moroccan version of the play, but their copy of Albee's work is missing essential pages.\n\nThe Zoo Story is referenced in Jay McInerney's \"Story of My Life\".\n"}
{"id": "39080716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39080716", "title": "Tom E. Finglass", "text": "Tom E. Finglass\n\nTom E. Finglass (1880? – 1957) was an Irish blackface tenor who had a successful career in British music hall. He was sometimes billed as \"The Ideal Coon\".\nHe played the legendary blackface performer Eugene Stratton (1861–1918) in the 1940 film \"You Will Remember\" which tells the story of song writer Leslie Stuart's (1863–1928) life.\n\nFinglass was born in Dublin. In 1930 he teamed up with songwriter Fred Godfrey to create a variety act featuring Godfrey’s hit songs. Finglass would sing while Godfrey played the piano. The act was extremely successful and topped the bill at venues in the 1930s\n\nFinglass retired from regular performing in the late 1930s and subsequently made his living in London as a hairdresser. He appeared in the 1943 film \"Variety Jubilee\", playing Eugene Stratton. The film depicts life in a London music hall from 1892 to the 1940s. He also came out of retirement briefly in 1950 to portray Stratton once more in a BBC tribute to that singer.\n\n"}
{"id": "56916411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56916411", "title": "Ve stínu havrana", "text": "Ve stínu havrana\n\nVe stínu havrana (English: In the Raven Shadow) is a 1999 Czech-Slovak adventure game developed by Rainbow Rhino and published by CINEMAX.\n\nThe game was created by Jiří Lábus.\n\nThe first edition of the game became sold out in less than a year. The title saw three editions, and became a magazine attachment 8 times; it was played by 250,000 players.\n\nIn 2008, work was being done on a second game, however it was never released. The game is currently available on Steam, and was uploaded on July 12, 2017.\n\nThe player takes control of the good-natured monk Severin, who one day \"escapes\" from the monastery and decides to seek his way of life.\n\nGamershell found enjoyment from the game despite its bare sound and visuals, and silly script. Absolute Games offered a mixed assessment of the game. Just Adventure decided that players willing to overlook the game's technical limitations would find enjoyment from its witty sense of humour. Bonusweb.cz felt that if the idea of the game bored players, they could wait another week for Czech adventure game Hot Summer 2 to be released. Bonusweb asserted that the game is likely known by every Czech computer player.\n\nCinemax announced works on Ve stínu havrana 2 in 2007. It was scheduled for a release in the second quarter of 2008. It was a collaboration between House of Dragonflies and Cinemax, and contained the work of graphic designers Erik Sille and Boris Sirka. The game's plot would have seen the monk Severin be trapped between medieval Europe, and futuristic world guided by Plato's philosophy of perfect States. The game was inspired by the works of PKDick, W. Gibson, and T. Giliam's film productions. It was a 3D point-and-click adventure with a non-linear story, while featuring limited RPG elements. The game was reported as being make completely in Czech, including its dubbing. It promsied to touch on historical themes and insights into philosophy, religion, mathematics, and cybernetics. Development was eventually cancelled. Bonusweb felt it was a shame the project never took off, as it seemed like an \"interesting psychedelic affair\".\n"}
{"id": "24634755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24634755", "title": "VectorCell", "text": "VectorCell\n\nVectorCell was a French video game developer founded in 2005. The company was owned by Paul Cuisset and Lexis Numérique. The company developed \"Amy\" for PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360. The company also planned to release Jesus Christ Super-Star on the iOS and Zeebo.\n\nPrevious releases include \"Mr Slime\" released under the Lexis Numérique label and published through SouthPeak Games in 2008.\n\nIn January 2010, VectorCell bought a licence for the Lightsprint middleware for realtime global illumination.\n\nBy the lack of success of the Flashback remake, the company suffered from the same fate as Delphine Software International and closed down on 18 November 2013 after bankruptcy and liquidation.\n"}
{"id": "4439168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4439168", "title": "Web3D Consortium", "text": "Web3D Consortium\n\nThe Web3D Consortium is an international not-for-profit, member-funded industry consortium, originally founded in 1997. In the Web3D Consortium members from governmental, nonprofit and research organizations worldwide, working alongside individual professional members, collaborate in a consensus process encouraging development and implementation of open standards for 3D content and services. \n\nThe Web3D Consortium promotes deployment of X3D standards for the communication of 3D scenes in multiple applications, use cases, platforms, and verticals. Members collaboratively develop the X3D standards and tools making them widely adopted across diverse markets for academia, government, industry, and individuals. The Web3D Consortium offers robust ISO standardized 3D functionality and long-term stability for enterprise solutions and interoperability with other 3D standards. \n\nThe Consortium defines and develops the X3D royalty-free open standards file format and runtime architecture to represent and communicate 3D scenes. The development of 3D web-based graphics has evolved from its beginnings as the Virtual Reality Modeling Language (VRML) to Extensible 3D (X3D). Over recent years, advances in real time graphics and networking technology, and most notably the emergence of the Extensible Markup Language XML, have heavily influenced the development of the ISO-approved, freely available, X3D open standard. X3D embodies best practices in commercial real time graphics within the widely adopted framework of the World Wide Web family of technologies and standards and has no intellectual property restrictions. It provides a system for the storage, retrieval and playback of real time graphics content embedded in applications, all within an open architecture to support a wide array of domains and user scenarios.\n\nWeb3D applications have been active for some time. Previously known as the VRML Consortium, this community spearheaded the development of the VRML 1.0 and 2.0 specifications, which provide the basis for the development of associated applications. The organizations involved in this effort felt that the creation of an open consortium focused exclusively on Web3D would provide the structure necessary to stabilize, standardize, and nurture the technology for the entire community. Today, the Web3D Consortium is utilizing its broad-based industry support to develop the X3D specification as a successor to VRML for communicating 3D on the web, between applications and across distributed networks and web services.\n\nRelated to its educational mission, the Consortium maintains an extensive website of documents and links related to VRML and X3D resources, including plugins and browsers from many long term members and open source developers.\n\n\n"}
