{"id": "6526561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6526561", "title": "Amelia Peabody series", "text": "Amelia Peabody series\n\nThe Amelia Peabody series is a series of twenty historical mystery novels and one non-fiction companion volume written by Egyptologist Barbara Mertz (1927-2013) under the pen name Elizabeth Peters. The series is centered on the adventures of the unconventional female Egyptologist Amelia Peabody Emerson, for whom the series is named, and an ever-increasing number of family, friends, allies, and characters both fictional and based on historical figures. The novels blend mystery and romance with a wryly comic tone, and at times also parody Victorian-era adventure novels such as those written by H. Rider Haggard. The series was published between 1975 and 2010, with the final, posthumous novel (completed by Joan Hess) appearing in 2017.\n\nAmelia Peabody is introduced in the series' first novel, \"Crocodile on the Sandbank\" as a confirmed spinster, suffragist, and scholar, living in England in 1884. She inherits a fortune from her father and leaves England to see the world, with the side benefit of escaping various suitors and family members who were neither aware that she would be the sole beneficiary of her father's estate nor that he had amassed a small fortune over the course of his lifetime.\n\nIn Rome, Amelia meets Evelyn Barton-Forbes, a young Englishwoman of social standing who has run off with (and subsequently been abandoned by) her Italian lover, and the two make their way to Egypt. There they meet the Emerson brothers, Egyptologist Radcliffe and his philologist brother Walter. Over the course of the first book the couples pair up: Amelia marries Radcliffe (referred to throughout the series by his last name \"Emerson\"), and Evelyn marries Walter.\n\nFollowing the birth of their son Ramses (né Walter) Emerson (\"as swarthy as an Egyptian and as arrogant as a Pharaoh\"), the Emersons initially settle in Kent, from where Emerson commutes to a job lecturing in Egyptology at university in London. Despite Amelia's suggestions that he resume seasonal digs in Egypt, Emerson insists on staying in England with his family while Ramses is too young to travel.\n\nPeabody and Emerson return to Egypt at least once without Ramses (\"The Curse of the Pharaohs\") in 1892 before deciding to bring him along on their annual digs (\"The Mummy Case\"), beginning in the 1894-95 season. Amelia's desire to explore pyramids is countered by Emerson's refusal to be diplomatic with the Egyptian Service d'Antiquites, resulting in the loss of their \"firman\" (permit) to excavate at one of the major pyramid fields, and instead being awarded Mazghuna, a minor pyramid field southwest of Cairo.\n\nWhile the Emersons are excavating at Mazghuna, they encounter an enigmatic criminal mastermind who runs an illicit underground antiquities trade, stealing artifacts from tombs, which puts him at odds with the Emersons. Amelia initially calls him \"The Master Criminal,\" although his \"nom de guerre\" is eventually revealed to be Sethos. Sethos is initially presented as a rival to Emerson for Amelia's affections, but later becomes an important part of the Emerson's large circle of friends, allies, and acquaintances in later books when it is revealed that he is Emerson's theretofore unknown half-brother, Seth.\n\nThe Emerson family expands again during the 1897-1898 season while on an archaeological expedition to Nubia. The family encounters a hitherto unknown civilization in a remote wadi in the desert (\"The Last Camel Died at Noon\"), becomes embroiled in turbulent politics, and discovers Nefret Forth, the daughter of a long-presumed dead explorer. Nefret returns to England with the Emersons and becomes their ward.\n\nAnother key character is introduced in the 1899-1900 season (\"The Hippopotamus Pool\"), that of David Todros, the son of Abdullah's estranged daughter and her Christian husband. David is living in a state of semi-slavery, working for a forger of antiquities. A key character in that novel, he is later taken in by Evelyn and Walter Emerson as a ward. David later marries Evelyn and Walter's daughter Amelia (known as Lia to avoid confusion with her aunt).\n\nThe introduction of Nefret initiates a running story arc of sexual tension between her and Ramses. This becomes an important part of the plot in a subset of four books beginning with \"Seeing a Large Cat\", coinciding with the introduction of \"excerpts from Manuscript H\" in which the younger generation of the family begins a parallel narration to Amelia's. Among the pitfalls in this story arc is the arrival of Sennia, a young girl initially suspected to be Ramses' illegitimate daughter with a local prostitute. Sennia's arrival, and the suspicions about Ramses that it raises, precipitates Nefret's brief marriage to another man. Sennia is revealed to be the child of Amelia's nephew Percival, first seen in \"Deeds of the Disturber\", who is reintroduced as an adult in a villainous role for several volumes beginning with \"The Falcon at the Portal\". Sennia is adopted by the Emersons, who take her back to England at the conclusion of the volume.\n\nThe tension between Ramses and Nefret is finally resolved in \"He Shall Thunder in the Sky\", with their marriage taking place at the end of that book and recounted in flashback sequences in the next. The two eventually have three children: a set of fraternal twins (a son, David John, and a daughter, Charlotte, or \"Charla\"), and an unnamed daughter born after the current conclusion of the series. It is through the youngest daughter that John Tregarth, a character in Peters's Vicky Bliss series, is descended from the Emerson-Peabodys.\n\nAdditional characters in the series include members of the large Egyptian family who support the Emersons in their digs. The head of the family is Abdullah ibn al-Wahhab, Emerson's \"reis\" or foreman, who supervises their archaeological digs. Abdullah has several children, among them his youngest son, Selim, who, originally assigned as a bodyguard of sorts for Ramses (\"The Mummy Case\"), eventually replaces his father as \"reis\" (dig supervisor). Abdullah's daughter-in-law, Khadijah, her cooking, and her green healing poultice (which is effective, although its exact contents are never quite determined) are frequently mentioned. After Abdullah's death (\"The Ape Who Guards the Balance\") the character appears to Amelia in dreams as a spiritual guide (although it is left ambiguous whether his appearance is a manifestation of Amelia's own subconsciousness or supernatural in nature).\n\nChronologically, the latest book in the series (\"Tomb of the Golden Bird\")) takes place in 1922-23, around the discovery of Tutankhamen's tomb.\n\nThe earlier books in the series—prior to \"Seeing a Large Cat\"—were written entirely as first-person narrative, with the novels purporting to be edited versions of journals kept by Amelia herself. According to the series mythology, the initial cache of journals that provided the narrative for the Amelia Peabody series were discovered in the attic of the ancestral home of the Tregarth family in Cornwall, England, into which Amelia's unnamed granddaughter eventually married (this is revealed in the Vicky Bliss series final installment \"The Laughter of Dead Kings\" in which it is strongly implied that Peters herself -- \"She writes under three names\"—is the journals' editor).\n\nBeginning with \"Seeing a Large Cat\", Amelia's narrative is interspersed with excerpts from \"Manuscript H,\" a third person narrative that follows the adventures of the younger generation of the family, the author of which is eventually revealed to be Walter 'Ramses' Emerson. From this point forward other points of view—most often that of Nefret—are occasionally introduced in the form of letters and additional manuscripts.\n\nThe series is set primarily in Egypt (see chart below for specific locations) with some installments including scenes set in England, generally at the beginning. Only two installments do not take place in Egypt at all: \"Deeds of the Disturber\", set entirely in England, and \"A River in the Sky\", set mostly in Ottoman-era Palestine.\n\nThe books span a thirty-nine-year period from 1884 to 1923, which coincides with the period of the British administration of Egypt after the Anglo-Egyptian War. In earlier novels, Sir Evelyn Baring, Lord Cromer, the British consul general to Cairo and \"de facto\" ruler of the country at the time, makes occasional cameo appearances. The uneasy relationship between the Egyptians and their European administrators is a running theme throughout the series, especially with regards to foreign oversight of the Egyptian Service d'Antiquities and its allowance of foreign organizations to export artifacts out of Egypt to Europe and the United States rather than keeping them in Egypt.\n\nThe series incorporates a number of prominent historical figures from the field of Egyptology as characters, including Howard Carter, William Flinders Petrie, Gaston Maspero, and E. A. Wallis Budge, whom Emerson considers an arch-rival (even if the feelings are not mutual). Another recurring character is that of Cyrus Vandergelt, an American entrepreneur who finances a number of archaeological expeditions in the Valley of the Kings (with little success) and becomes a close friend and confidant of the Emerson clan. The Vandergelt character is at least partly based on Theodore Davis, the American entrepreneur who first hired Howard Carter to dig in the Valley of the Kings, and who himself appears in \"The Ape Who Guards the Balance\".\n\nThe series incorporates contemporary geo-political events in Egypt and the Middle East into the background as well as directly into the plot. The Mahdist War in the Sudan forms much of the backdrop for \"The Last Camel Died at Noon\", in which an eager Emerson ventures into unstable territory to satisfy a lifelong wish to dig among the Nubian pyramids. The 1906 Dinshawai Incident is mentioned in historical context, and, as a result the character of David Todros (Abdullah's Coptic Christian grandson, who is fostered by the Emerson-Peabodys) becomes involved with the Egyptian nationalist movement. The character of Ramses, thought to be a conscientious objector, is revealed to be working with British intelligence during the First World War, playing a key role in thwarting the Raid on the Suez Canal by Ottoman forces and providing intelligence to the Egyptian Expeditionary Force in their campaigns. As she grows into adulthood, the character of Nefret Forth Emerson is trained as a doctor, working among the poor, championing education and rights for Egyptian women, and eventually establishing a hospital in Cairo's red light district that primarily employs females.\n\nMost of the archaeological achievements attributed to the Emerson-Peabodys were, in reality, accomplished by many of the archaeologists who pass through the novels as supporting characters. For example, the excavations that Emerson and Walter are undertaking at Amarna in 1884 (in \"Crocodile on the Sandbank\") are based on those conducted by Sir William Flinders Petrie in 1891. Peters has indicated that the character of Radcliffe Emerson is based in part on Petrie, whose meticulous excavation habits were legendary and set a new standard for archaeological digs.\n\nAmelia herself was partly inspired by Amelia Edwards, a Victorian novelist, travel writer, and Egyptologist, whose best-selling 1873 book, \"A Thousand Miles up the Nile\" is similar in both tone and content to Amelia Emerson's narration. The character was also semi-autobiographical: pressures on Amelia to marry and abandon her Egyptological career in the first book were based on Peters's own experience in academia.\n\nIn other instances, fictional accomplishments are ascribed to Amelia and Emerson. For example, the tomb of the 17th Dynasty Queen Tetisheri, whose discovery and excavation form the basis of the plot in \"The Hippopotamus Pool\" has, in fact, never been found. Most scholars suggest that the tomb — assuming that it still survives — would be found in the general area where the Emerson-Peabodys discover it. The intact Old Kingdom burial found in \"The Falcon at the Portal\" is also fictional; in fact, no intact burials from the Old Kingdom period have ever been found.\n\nThe first book in the series, \"Crocodile on the Sandbank\", was first published in 1975. Initially intended as a standalone novel, Peters did not write a sequel for six years. As the author was juggling several book series written under two pseudonyms, the Amelia Peabody series progressed slowly at first, with new installments published sporadically in intervals varying between two and four years. As the series became more commercially successful in the mid 1990s, however, the pace increased and by the end of the decade new books were appearing at the rate of one annually, with many of the later books in the series appearing on \"The New York Times Bestseller List\" for fiction. The 19th and last installment in the series to be published, \"A River in the Sky\", was released in 2010. The series also includes a non-fiction companion book, \"\".\n\nThe first eighteen books in the series were written in chronological order, with the exception of \"Guardian of the Horizon\", which was the 16th book published but 11th in the series chronology. In a 2003 book talk at the Library of Congress, Elizabeth Peters revealed that her overall plan was to continue the series chronologically through World War I and end with the events surrounding the discovery of the tomb of Tutankhamun in 1922, as the aging of the characters in real time presented a challenge to extending the series further. Although her age is only given in the first book, Amelia Peabody would have been seventy years old—and Emerson 67 or 68—by that point in history, making their often physically trying acts of heroism less and less credible. This stated goal was accomplished with the publication of \"Tomb of the Golden Bird\" in 2006. The events of that book wrapped up most of the series' loose plot lines, although it did not bring the series to a definite ending.\n\nIn the same talk, Peters stated that installments written after that point would \"fill in the gaps\" in the series' chronology, as there were gaps of several years between some volumes. The next (and last) book to be published, \"A River in the Sky\" (the 19th book in publication order) was retroactively inserted into the series chronology as the 12th book.\n\nPeters had plotted and written part of the twentieth novel in the series, \"The Painted Queen\", at the time of her death in 2013. The manuscript was completed by Peters's friend, mystery writer Joan Hess, with assistance from Egyptologist Salma Ikram, and was published in July 2017. It is set in the 1912-13 season, making it the fourteenth of the series in chronological order, and deals with the fallout of Nefret's precipitous marriage in \"The Falcon at the Portal\".\n\nThe series has been published in English in the United States and the United Kingdom. A varying number of volumes have been translated into other languages, including French, German, Greek, and Japanese.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55666609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55666609", "title": "Anna Maria Brizio", "text": "Anna Maria Brizio\n\nAnna Maria Brizio (1902-1982) was professor of art history at the University of Milan, a member of the Commissione Vinciana and an authority on the work of Leonardo da Vinci.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57868858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57868858", "title": "Clare Griffiths (historian)", "text": "Clare Griffiths (historian)\n\nClare Victoria Joanne Griffiths, FRHistS, is a historian and academic. Since 2016, she has held the Chair in Modern History at Cardiff University.\n\nClare Victoria Joanne Griffiths read modern history at Merton College, Oxford, graduating with a Bachelor of Arts degree. She carried on there to complete her doctoral studies under Ross McKibbin's supervision; her DPhil was awarded in 1996 for her thesis \"Labour and the countryside: rural strands in the British Labour movement, 1900–1939\". Alongside lecturing at the University of Reading, Griffiths then spent four years at Wadham College, Oxford, as Pat Thompson Junior Research Fellow. In 1999, she joined the University of Sheffield as a lecturer, and eventually secured promotion to a senior lectureship. In 2016, she moved to Cardiff University to take up a chair in modern history.\n\nGriffiths's research encompasses aspects of modern British political and cultural history. She is particularly interested in British left-wing politics (especially the Labour Party) in the interwar period, as well as British rural society, politics and political culture between the World Wars, agriculture in interwar Britain, land use and land policy, and interwar Englishness, literature and art.\n\nAs of 2018, Griffiths is a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society (FRHistS).\n\n"}
{"id": "63380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63380", "title": "Contemporary art", "text": "Contemporary art\n\nContemporary art is the art of today, produced in the second half of the 20th century or in the 21st century. Contemporary artists work in a globally influenced, culturally diverse, and technologically advancing world. Their art is a dynamic combination of materials, methods, concepts, and subjects that continue the challenging of boundaries that was already well underway in the 20th century. Diverse and eclectic, contemporary art as a whole is distinguished by the very lack of a uniform, organising principle, ideology, or \"-ism\". Contemporary art is part of a cultural dialogue that concerns larger contextual frameworks such as personal and cultural identity, family, community, and nationality.\n\nIn vernacular English, \"modern\" and \"contemporary\" are synonyms, resulting in some conflation of the terms \"modern art\" and \"contemporary art\" by non-specialists.\n\nSome define contemporary art as art produced within \"our lifetime,\" recognising that lifetimes and life spans vary. However, there is a recognition that this generic definition is subject to specialized limitations.\n\nThe classification of \"contemporary art\" as a special type of art, rather than a general adjectival phrase, goes back to the beginnings of Modernism in the English-speaking world. In London, the Contemporary Art Society was founded in 1910 by the critic Roger Fry and others, as a private society for buying works of art to place in public museums. A number of other institutions using the term were founded in the 1930s, such as in 1938 the Contemporary Art Society of Adelaide, Australia, and an increasing number after 1945. Many, like the Institute of Contemporary Art, Boston changed their names from ones using \"Modern art\" in this period, as Modernism became defined as a historical art movement, and much \"modern\" art ceased to be \"contemporary\". The definition of what is contemporary is naturally always on the move, anchored in the present with a start date that moves forward, and the works the Contemporary Art Society bought in 1910 could no longer be described as contemporary.\nParticular points that have been seen as marking a change in art styles include the end of World War II and the 1960s. There has perhaps been a lack of natural break points since the 1960s, and definitions of what constitutes \"contemporary art\" in the 2010s vary, and are mostly imprecise. Art from the past 20 years is very likely to be included, and definitions often include art going back to about 1970; \"the art of the late 20th and early 21st century\"; \"the art of the late 20th cent. and early 21st cent., both an outgrowth and a rejection of modern art\"; \"Strictly speaking, the term \"contemporary art\" refers to art made and produced by artists living today\"; \"Art from the 1960s or [19]70s up until this very minute\"; and sometimes further, especially in museum contexts, as museums which form a permanent collection of contemporary art inevitably find this aging. Many use the formulation \"Modern and Contemporary Art\", which avoids this problem. Smaller commercial galleries, magazines and other sources may use stricter definitions, perhaps restricting the \"contemporary\" to work from 2000 onwards. Artists who are still productive after a long career, and ongoing art movements, may present a particular issue; galleries and critics are often reluctant to divide their work between the contemporary and non-contemporary.\n\nSociologist Nathalie Heinich draws a distinction between modern and contemporary art, describing them as two different paradigms which partially overlap historically. She found that while \"modern art\" challenges the conventions of representation, \"contemporary art\" challenges the very notion of an artwork. She regards Duchamp's \"Fountain\" (which was made in the 1910s in the midst of the triumph of modern art) as the starting point of contemporary art, which gained momentum after World War II with Gutai's performances, Yves Klein's monochromes and Rauschenberg's \"Erased de Kooning Drawing\".\n\nOne of the difficulties many people have in approaching contemporary artwork is its diversity—diversity of material, form, subject matter, and even time periods. It is \"distinguished by the very lack of a uniform organizing principle, ideology, or -ism\" that we so often see in other, and oftentimes more familiar, art periods and movements. Broadly speaking, we see Modernism as looking at modernist principles—the focus of the work is self-referential, investigating its own materials (investigations of line, shape, color, form). Likewise, Impressionism looks at our perception of a moment through light and color as opposed to attempts at stark realism (Realism, too, is an artistic movement). Contemporary art, on the other hand, does not have one, single objective or point of view. Its view instead is unclear, perhaps reflective of the world today. It can be, therefore, contradictory, confusing, and open-ended. There are, however, a number of common themes that have appeared in contemporary works. While these are not exhaustive, notable themes include: identity politics, the body, globalization and migration, technology, contemporary society and culture, time and memory, and institutional and political critique. Post-modern, post-structuralist, feminist, and Marxist theory have played important roles in the development of contemporary theories of art.\n\nThe functioning of the art world is dependent on art institutions, ranging from major museums to private galleries, non-profit spaces, art schools and publishers, and the practices of individual artists, curators, writers, collectors, and philanthropists. A major division in the art world is between the for-profit and non-profit sectors, although in recent years the boundaries between for-profit private and non-profit public institutions have become increasingly blurred. Most well-known contemporary art is exhibited by professional artists at commercial contemporary art galleries, by private collectors, art auctions, corporations, publicly funded arts organizations, contemporary art museums or by artists themselves in artist-run spaces. Contemporary artists are supported by grants, awards, and prizes as well as by direct sales of their work. Career artists train at art school or emerge from other fields.\nThere are close relationships between publicly funded contemporary art organizations and the commercial sector. For instance, in 2005 the book \"Understanding International Art Markets and Management\" reported that in Britain a handful of dealers represented the artists featured in leading publicly funded contemporary art museums.\n\nCorporations have also integrated themselves into the contemporary art world, exhibiting contemporary art within their premises, organizing and sponsoring contemporary art awards, and building up extensive corporate collections. Corporate advertisers frequently use the prestige associated with contemporary art and coolhunting to draw the attention of consumers to luxury goods.\n\nThe institutions of art have been criticized for regulating what is designated as contemporary art. Outsider art, for instance, is literally contemporary art, in that it is produced in the present day. However, one critic has argued it is not considered so because the artists are self-taught and are thus assumed to be working outside of an art historical context. Craft activities, such as textile design, are also excluded from the realm of contemporary art, despite large audiences for exhibitions. Art critic Peter Timms has said that attention is drawn to the way that craft objects must subscribe to particular values in order to be admitted to the realm of contemporary art. \"A ceramic object that is intended as a subversive comment on the nature of beauty is more likely to fit the definition of contemporary art than one that is simply beautiful.\"\n\nAt any one time a particular place or group of artists can have a strong influence on subsequent contemporary art. For instance, The Ferus Gallery was a commercial gallery in Los Angeles and re-invigorated the Californian contemporary art scene in the late fifties and the sixties.\n\nContemporary art can sometimes seem at odds with a public that does not feel that art and its institutions share its values. In Britain, in the 1990s, contemporary art became a part of popular culture, with artists becoming stars, but this did not lead to a hoped-for \"cultural utopia\". Some critics like Julian Spalding and Donald Kuspit have suggested that skepticism, even rejection, is a legitimate and reasonable response to much contemporary art. Brian Ashbee in an essay called \"Art Bollocks\" criticizes \"much installation art, photography, conceptual art, video and other practices generally called post-modern\" as being too dependent on verbal explanations in the form of theoretical discourse. However, the acceptance of non traditional art in museums has increased due to changing perspectives on what constitutes an art piece.\n\nA common concern since the early part of the 20th century has been the question of what constitutes art. In the contemporary period (1950 to now), the concept of avant-garde may come into play in determining what art is noticed by galleries, museums, and collectors.\n\nThe concerns of contemporary art come in for criticism too. Andrea Rosen has said that some contemporary painters \"have absolutely no idea of what it means to be a contemporary artist\" and that they \"are in it for all the wrong reasons.\"\n\nSome competitions, awards, and prizes in contemporary art are:\n\n\nThis table lists art movements and styles by decade. It should not be assumed to be conclusive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56636015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56636015", "title": "Coventry Chronicle", "text": "Coventry Chronicle\n\nThe Coventry Chronicle is a 12th-century world chronicle in annual format covering the period from the Creation to 1122.\nThe manuscript was written by Benedictine monks at Coventry Cathedral Priory, ca 1150, with an addendum up to 1202. Much of the material to 1150 is a reworking of the \"Chronica chronicarum\" by John of Worcester.\n\nToday the document is at BL, Harley ms. 3775, fol. 34r-67v and 73r.\n"}
{"id": "57766788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57766788", "title": "Cuisine in the early modern world", "text": "Cuisine in the early modern world\n\nCuisine in the early modern world varied through the location and the resources available. There are many factors that play a part into an area's cuisine, with a few being religion, location, and status. Diets across the early modern world varied throughout time and location. The most prominent religions in the early modern era were Islam, Buddhism, and Christianity and each of these religions had their own views on what could be consumed. Trade and status also influenced the diet consumed in a particular region. Trade changed the available resources and allowed for luxury goods to be incorporated into the local region's supply.\n\nReligions, such as Islam, Buddhism, and Christianity, played a factor into the available diet through having specific dietary restraints and regulations. There are some religions, such as the Islamic faith, that specify how certain foods must be consumed or removed from the diet. Other religions have general guidelines as to which foods can be consumed, such as the vegetarian lifestyle that is a basic principle in the Buddhist religion. However, some religions had little to no dietary restrictions, such as the Christian principle of only drinking alcohol in moderate amounts.\n\nEarly modern trade was essential to cuisine as various information and goods were traded and developed. Major trading items included food items, silk, fur, and knowledge of trade routes to merchants. One of the most influential trade routes were the fishing routes as they provided a consistent food source as well as held economic power. The spice trade was essential to the trade and development of certain food items and cuisines as well as to providing the connection of trade routes to other continents, specifically the New World.\n\nThe geographic region largely determined the type and amount of food that would be available naturally and through trade. Diets also varied depending on climate as each climate created different environments for specific plants and animals to live in, both of which work together to produce diets for that region. One notable difference would be that tropical regions having more natural vegetation incorporated into that region's diet while arctic regions depend on the fishing industry.\n\nTrade also was a large influence in which items were available and able to be traded and thus, spread to other regions. The early modern world saw the expansion of the spice trade through Spanish, Dutch, and Chinese trade routes. Following the established trade routes of the Spice Trade, items that were circulated includes pepper, cotton, aromatics, slaves, animals, jewels, clothing, and dyes. In addition to goods being traded, knowledge of food preparation and also worked to add to the field of botany.\n\nStatus is another factor that played into the available diet and is reflected in the different diets between the peasants and the upper class. The upper class had more wealth and access to various goods and trade opportunities, allowing their diet to include more luxury goods, items that were more expensive and refined. Peasants in the early modern world commonly ate a diet that consisted of \"gruels, pottages, and ... grains\". Peasants often were farmers, cultivating food items and non-food items, with the most common items being cotton, rice, and sugar cane. The upper class also had access to more techniques and technologies which provided a foundation to the cuisine specific to a certain region or territories. Technology in the early modern period include mills, simple grindstones, food-processing technologies, etc.\n\nWith the expansion of trade, a wider variety of luxury goods were able to be traded and incorporated into the region's diet. Luxury goods were often goods or food items that were not natural to the region and were only available through specific trade routes. The upper class had access to these items and held \"banquets [that were] as opulent as possible, with as many rich dishes as possible, larger quantities of food, and extravagant use of spices\". The Spice Trade allowed spices as well as currency, like gold, to become less of a luxury as overtime they became incorporated as common goods through trade or were consistently available through merchants' supplies.\n"}
{"id": "259017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=259017", "title": "Dean Cogan", "text": "Dean Cogan\n\nDean Anthony Cogan (1826–1872) was a nineteenth-century Roman Catholic Irish priest, (awarded the religious title of \"dean\"), born in Slane, who wrote a history of the Diocese of Meath in Ireland. Published in two volumes in 1862 and 1867, Cogan's \"The Diocese of Meath\" was an important history of Christianity in Ireland.\n\nAnthony Coogan was born in 1826, one of five sons and three daughters of baker Thomas Coogan and his wife Ann Sillary, his mother converted from the Church of Ireland to Catholicism to marry. Cogan trained for the priesthood in St. Finian’s Seminary in Navan.\n\nCogan's work, which included a humanitarian dimension, led to the naming of a housing estate in his memory: 'Dean Cogan Place', located in Navan, where he had served as a curate.\n\nA plaque unveiled in 2003 adorns the wall of his birthplace on main street Slane.\n"}
{"id": "28838419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28838419", "title": "Deportation of Roma migrants from France", "text": "Deportation of Roma migrants from France\n\nIn 2009, France deported 10,000 Romani back to Romania and Bulgaria. The next year, at least another 8,300 Romani were deported up until August. In July 2010, the Government of France initiated a program to repatriate thousands of Romanian and Bulgarian Romani, as part of a crackdown on allegedly illegal camps in the country. Since July 2010, at least 51 Romani camps have been demolished, and France has repatriated at least 1,230 Romani to their countries of origin.\n\nOn 12 April 2011 a chartered flight carrying 160 Romani left northern France for Timisoara, Romania. As in the 2010 deportations, the French government gave those Romani leaving France €300 each, with €100 for each child. The Romani on the 12 April flight had each signed declarations that they would never return to France. On 9 August 2011, the city of Marseille in southern France forcibly evicted 100 Romani people from their makeshift camp near Porte d'Aix, giving them 24 hours to leave. A chartered flight carrying approximately 150 Romani to Romania left the Lyon area on 20 September. France's goal for 2011 was to deport 30,000 Romani to their home country. As of 2012, France sent about 8,000 Romani back to Romania and Bulgaria in 2011, after dismantling illegal camps where they were living on the outskirts of cities. The deportations prompted controversy and calls for greater inclusion of Romani people.\n\nAlthough Bulgarian and Romanian citizens have the right to enter France without a visa because their countries of origin are in the European Union, under French immigration rules, they must have work or residency permits if they wish to stay longer than three months. The deportations have proved controversial in the European Union, with EU Justice Commissioner Viviane Reding stating in a September briefing that the European Commission may take legal action against the French government over the forced expulsions, calling them \"a disgrace\". The subsequent row over the comments was widely reported to have overshadowed an EU summit in September 2010.\n\nOn 16 July 2010, French police shot and killed a 22-year-old French Romani man who fled a police check-point by driving through it in a BMW car. In retaliation, a group later identified as 'travellers' (\"Gens du voyage\") rioted in the village of Saint-Aignan in central France. The local mayor described the disturbances as \"a settling of scores between the travellers and the gendarmerie\". On the same night and for a few nights thereafter, riots erupted in a Grenoble neighborhood after pursuing French police, having been shot at on three occasions during the chase, in turn shot and killed Karim Boudouda, a 27-year-old resident involved in a robbery at the Uriage-les-Bains casino near the border with Switzerland.\n\nOn 30 July 2010, the French President, Nicolas Sarkozy, made a speech in Grenoble concerning the recent events, both there and at Saint-Aignan. He criticized demonstrations against the police that occurred in both cases after perpetrators were killed while committing criminal acts and wantonly endangering police officers' lives, and in this context he was reported as saying that 'he had asked the interior minister to \"put an end to the wild squatting and camping of the Roma\" as well as to prevent further destruction by the rioters in Grenoble. As president, he said, (he) could not accept the fact that there were 539 Romani camps in his country, and he promised that half of them would be gone within three months. \nThe office of the President stated that local unauthorised camps were \"sources of illegal trafficking, of profoundly shocking living standards, of exploitation of children for begging, of prostitution and crime\". \"Der Spiegel\" deemed this to come amidst efforts by the President's allies aimed at \"keeping the issue of domestic security high on the political agenda.\"\n\nSince July 2010, at least 51 Romani camps have been demolished, and France has expelled at least 1,230 non-French Romani (conflating those French Romani involved in disturbances at Saint-Aignan, with Bulgarian and Romanian citizens being expelled for otherwise unrelated alleged visa irregularities) providing financial incentives and travel back to Romania and Bulgaria.\n\nThe French government claimed it was expelling people on legal rather than ethnic grounds. This \"openly contradicted by an administrative circular issue by the same government\" mentioning Romani camps specifically (\"en priorité ceux des Roms\"). This mention could be explained by the fact that Romani account for the overwhelming majority of foreign migrants setting up camps in France, and that \"most Roma from the two countries [Bulgaria and Romania] are thought to be in France illegally\". The then French President Nicolas Sarkozy stated that his government had been unaware of the directive in question signed by Mr Michel Bart, the Chief of Staff of the French Minister of the Interior, and that the directive had been canceled as soon as the government became aware of it through press reports. He stated that France continues to welcome refugees and that \"we refuse the creation of slums... that are unworthy of French Republic or European ideals.\" President Sarkozy also stated that 80% of people removed from the camps during August 2010 were of French \"gens du voyage\", i.e. most of the campers thus removed where not foreign citizens or Romani; and that all removals were done based on judicial decisions, i.e. they were not unilateral police operations as would be based on a circular directive.\n\nOn 6 September 2010, the President of the European Commission José Manuel Barroso gave a speech widely interpreted as a criticism of the French policy, warning EU governments to \"steer clear of racism and xenophobia\". On the 9 September 2010 the European Parliament expressed deep concern at measures taken by the French authorities and criticised the Council of the European Union and European Commission's lack of commitment on the issue. In a resolution tabled by the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats, Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, The Greens–European Free Alliance and European United Left–Nordic Green Left groups and adopted by 337 votes to 245 with 51 abstentions the parliament said the Member States in question should immediately \"suspend all expulsions of Roma\".\n\nThe Parliament rejected any statements which link minorities and immigration with criminality and create discriminatory stereotypes as well as the inflammatory and openly discriminatory rhetoric lending credibility to racist statements and the actions of extreme right-wing groups\". MEPs also argued that fingerprinting the Romani population is illegal and violates the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.\n\nLater in the week, EU Justice Commissioner Viviane Reding called the expulsions \"a disgrace\", stating in a briefing on 14 September 2010 that \"This is a situation I had thought Europe would not have to witness again after the Second World War\", and suggesting the European Commission may take legal action against France over the matter.\n\nHer strong response was in part due to a French denial of a leaked file dated 5 August, sent from the Interior Ministry to regional police chiefs, which included the instruction: \"Three hundred camps or illegal settlements must be cleared within three months, Roma camps are a priority,\"\n\nThe dispute between the French government and the EU Commission was widely thought to have overshadowed the EU summit opening on 16 September 2010. Nicolas Sarkozy criticised Reding's remarks, saying \"The disgusting and shameful words that were used - World War II, the evocation of the Jews - was something that shocked us deeply\". Sarkozy told Luxembourg to take in France's unwanted Romani. He also affirmed that his government would continue with its policy. According to Bulgarian prime minister Boyko Borisov \"There was a big argument — I could also say a scandal — between the president of the European Commission and the French president\". In response to Mr Sarkozy's suggestion that Viviane Reding's country of origin, Luxembourg, could accommodate the expelled Romani, its Foreign Minister Jean Asselborn said he found the statement \"malevolent\".\n\nThe German chancellor Angela Merkel was also quoted as saying \"I found the tone and especially the historical comparisons unsuitable. And I hope we can find a better way.\" At the meeting, Barroso distanced himself from Reding's comments, but affirmed that \"The prohibition of discrimination based on racial and ethnic origin is one of the EU's fundamental principles.\" Finland's foreign minister Alexander Stubb commented that the summit, which has an objective of presenting a unified foreign and economic policy, risks making the EU look hypocritical: \"When we promote free trade, climate change and human rights around the world we need to have our own backyard in order.\" Also at the summit, the French President stated that Germany too intended to initiate a programme of expulsing Romani, a claim flatly denied by Germany.\n\nViviane Reding subsequently privately recanted the historical comparison in her initial statement. Her office apologized for the analogy. The European Commission subsequently declined to follow up on the earlier threat to sue France at the European Court of Justice, or to take other legal action on the Romani matter against France.\n\nSubsequently, the EU said it would seek to compel European Union countries to amend their national rules to the requirements of the European Union's free movement laws, but in so doing did not deny the unlawfulness of the French actions.\n\nRomani NGOs in Turkey as well protested the French government and what they considered the European Union's weak response to the French government's decision on human rights grounds. Efkan Ozcimen, head of a Romani NGO in Turkey was quoted saying, \"Unfortunately France is expelling Roman people while the same France and the EU advise other countries about human rights. As Romani living in Turkey, we all have equal rights and France should take the example of Turkey on human rights.\"\n\nOn 10 November 2011 the Council of Europe condemned the expulsions as \"discriminatory\" and \"contrary to human dignity\", publishing the decision by the European Committee of Social Rights on the complaint \"Centre on Housing Rights and Evictions (COHRE) v. France\".\n\nZoni Weisz, a Romani activist and Holocaust deportation escapee who addressed the German Bundestag's Holocaust Remembrance Day ceremony on 27 January 2011, praised Viviane Reding's 'clear words' in denouncing Romani expulsions. Hungarian MEP Lívia Járóka, the sole European Parliament member to have partly Romani heritage, described the root problem as \"the failure of Roma integration in most member states in the last 20 years\".\n\nAs a result of the action taken by Viviane Reding, national governments of the Member States of the European Union were obliged to put in place national strategies and concrete plans for the integration of Romani people and to report on their implementation annually. In August 2012 Viviane Reding has put the action of the French socialist government of Jean-Marc Ayrault and his Minister of the Interior Manuel Valls under surveillance responding to the actions of alleged expulsions of Romani people. The call resulted in a shift of policy by the French government confirmed in a Ministerial executive order signed by nine French Ministers and placing the focus of the action on the integration of the Romani as called for by the European Commission.\n\n\"Le Monde\" on 7 October 2010 reported that the French Office Central de Lutte contre la Délinquance Itinérante (OCLDI) holds a database of French Romani known as the MENS database. The French authorities denied these claims. A formal complaint regarding this was made by lawyers representing four Romani rights groups.\n\nSubsequent investigations were conducted both by the Commission nationale de l'informatique et des libertés (CNIL), an independent body that oversees data privacy, and by the internal auditing unit in charge of overseeing data files. Both inquiries concluded that no MENS database existed or had ever existed, and CNIL reported finding no file with ethnic information in a broader investigation of the police and gendarmerie systems.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25588761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25588761", "title": "Edward Chapman (British Army officer)", "text": "Edward Chapman (British Army officer)\n\nGeneral Sir Edward Francis Chapman KCB FRGS (14 November 1840 – 12 May 1926) was a senior British Army officer who commanded the Army in Scotland and was the ceremonial head of the Royal Regiment of Artillery.\n\nChapman was the son of Henry Frederick Chapman, an officer of the British East India Company, and Priscilla Susannah Wakefield. He was born in Calcutta, India and educated at the Royal Military Academy, Woolwich.\n\nHe was commissioned into the Bengal Artillery in 1858, which was later amalgamated into the Royal Artillery. He quickly caught the attention of Sir Frederick Roberts who predicted that Chapman would \"make his mark\". He was duly selected to fight in the British Expedition to Abyssinia between 1867 and 1868 as the commander of No. 5 Battery, 21st Brigade. He was present at the action of Arogee and at the fall of Magdala, working as aide-de-camp to Brigadier-General Petrie and being mentioned in dispatches for his services. Chapman was part of a mission to Yarkand in China in 1874. He served in the Second Anglo-Afghan War from 1878 to 1880, and was Sir Frederick Roberts' Chief of Staff during the march from Kabul to Kandahar. Chapman was twice mentioned in dispatches during the conflict.\n\nHe was appointed Military Secretary to the Commander-in-Chief, India in 1881 and went on the Burma expedition in 1885. He was Quartermaster-General for India from 1885 to 1889, and introduced a system of organised native brothels for British other ranks in the hope of reducing the incidence of venereal diseases. He became the second Director of Military Intelligence at the War Office in 1891. He was aide-de-camp to Queen Victoria in 1891. As an active member of the Royal Geographical Society, he presented several lectures and wrote numerous papers on the effects of physical geography on the tactics and success of military operations. Additionally, he wrote several books about military geography and the history of the British Indian Army. He was promoted to major-general in 1889, lieutenant-general in 1892, and general in March 1896. Chapman was made Commander Scottish District in 1896, a post he held until 1901. He was made a Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath in 1905 and retired in 1906. He was Master Gunner, St James's Park, the ceremonial commander of the Royal Artillery, between 1919 and 1926.\n\nOn 3 December 1886 he married Georgiana Bayley, daughter of Edward Clive Bayley.\n\nHe lived at Limpsfield in Surrey. He was an Esquire of the Venerable Order of Saint John and a member of the Athenaeum Club, London.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "50136806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50136806", "title": "Eric Kotz", "text": "Eric Kotz\n\nEric Kotz is a South Australian fisherman, scuba diver, mariner and social historian. He is the author of three books: \"The Jawesome Coast\" (2016) and \"The Butcher's Son from Tumby Bay\" (2015) and \"Sir Joseph Banks Group\" (2018). His most recent work is dedicated to the eponymous group of islands in Spencer Gulf, South Australia. He lives in Tumby Bay, South Australia and his publications focus on life in the Eyre Peninsula and Spencer Gulf regions. Eric Kotz is a shell collector and a member of Bite Club, a support group for survivors of shark attacks and the friends and relatives of victims. In 2017, Kotz claimed that 3 or 4 sharks had been shot in South Australia as a form of vigilante shark control.\n"}
{"id": "3931064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3931064", "title": "Fallen Astronaut", "text": "Fallen Astronaut\n\nFallen Astronaut is an aluminium sculpture created by Paul Van Hoeydonck. It is a small stylized figure, meant to depict an astronaut in a spacesuit, intended to commemorate the astronauts and cosmonauts who have died in the advancement of space exploration. It was commissioned and placed on the Moon by the crew of Apollo 15 at Hadley Rille on August 1, 1971, next to a plaque listing the fourteen men known at the time to have died.\n\nThe crew kept the memorial's existence a secret until after completion of their mission. After public disclosure, the National Air and Space Museum requested and received a replica of the statue. Controversy soon followed, as Van Hoeydonck claimed a different understanding of the agreement made with the astronauts and attempted to sell up to 950 copies of the statue. He finally relented under pressure from NASA, which has a strict policy against commercial exploitation of the US government space program.\n\nPrior to his Apollo 15 lunar mission, astronaut David Scott met Belgian painter and printmaker Paul Van Hoeydonck at a dinner party. It was there agreed that Van Hoeydonck would create a small statuette for Scott to place on the Moon, though their recollections of the details disagree. Scott's purpose was to commemorate those astronauts and cosmonauts who had lost their lives in the furtherance of space exploration, and he designed and separately made a plaque listing fourteen American and Soviet names. Van Hoeydonck was given a set of design specifications: the sculpture was to be lightweight but sturdy, capable of withstanding the temperature extremes of the Moon; it could not be identifiably male or female, nor of any identifiable ethnic group. According to Scott, it was agreed Van Hoeydonck's name would not be made public, to avoid the commercial exploitation of the US government's space program. Scott kept the agreement secret from NASA management prior to the mission, smuggling the statue aboard his spacecraft.\n\nVan Hoeydonck gives a different account of the agreement: according to an interview in Belgian newspaper \"Le Soir\", the statue was supposed to be a representation of all mankind, not only fallen astronauts or cosmonauts. He claimed he did not know the statue would be used as a memorial for the fallen space-goers, and the name given to the work was neither chosen nor approved by him; he had intended the figure to be left standing upright. He also denies it was agreed he would remain anonymous. Both his and Scott's versions of events are given in an article in \"Slate\" magazine in 2013.\n\nDuring the Apollo 15 mission, near the completion of his work on the lunar surface on August 1, 1971, Scott secretly placed the \"Fallen Astronaut\" on the Moon, along with a plaque bearing the names of eight American astronauts and six Soviet cosmonauts who had died in service:\n\nScott photographed the memorial, but waited for a post-mission press conference to publicly disclose its existence. Later, he noted that \"Sadly, two names are missing (from the plaque), those of Valentin Bondarenko and Grigori Nelyubov.\" He explained that the western world was unaware of their deaths, because of the secrecy surrounding the Soviet space program at the time. Also missing was the name of Robert Henry Lawrence Jr., the first black astronaut and a U.S. Air Force officer selected for the Manned Orbiting Laboratory program who was killed in a training accident in 1967.\n\nAfter the crew disclosed the statuette's existence during their press conference, the National Air and Space Museum requested that a replica be made for public display. The crew agreed, on condition that it be displayed \"with good taste and without publicity\". The replica was given to the Smithsonian Institution on April 17, 1972, the day after CBS anchorman Walter Cronkite referred to the \"Fallen Astronaut\" and plaque as the first art installation on the Moon during the broadcast of the Apollo 16 launch. It is now on display with a replica of the plaque in the Museum's National Mall Building in the Space Race Wing, Gallery 114.\n\nIn May 1972, Scott learned that Van Hoeydonck planned to make and sell more replicas. Believing that this would be a violation of the spirit of their agreement, and NASA's policy against commercial exploitation of the space program, Scott tried to persuade Van Hoeydonck to refrain. It was advertised in a full-page advertisement in the July 1972 issue of \"Art in America\" magazine, that 950 replicas of \"Fallen Astronaut\" signed by the sculptor would be sold by the Waddell Gallery of New York for $750 each; a second edition, at a lower, unspecified price; and a catalog edition, at $5.\n\nAfter complaints from NASA about the intended sale, Van Hoeydonck retracted his permission for it and no statues were sold.\n\nOn September 11, 2007, art journalist Jan Stalmans wrote to Van Hoeydonck, asking him how many replicas were in existence. Van Hoeydonk returned a handwritten response on the letter, that 50 copies had been made, most of which were still in his possession, unsigned. Van Hoeydonck wrote that he had only ever received money for one copy of \"Fallen Astronaut\", despite many purchase offers he had received (see the English translation ).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29390201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29390201", "title": "Farooque Ahmed", "text": "Farooque Ahmed\n\nFarooque Ahmed (; born 1976) is a Pakistani American from Ashburn, Virginia who was arrested by the Federal Bureau of Investigation for plotting to bomb Washington Metro stations at Arlington cemetery, Pentagon City, Crystal City and Court House. He was charged with attempting to provide material support to a designated terrorist organization, collecting information to assist in planning a terrorist attack on a transit facility, and attempting to provide material support to terrorists. On April 11, 2011, he was sentenced to 23 years in prison after pleading guilty.\n\nAhmed was born in Pakistan and is a naturalized U.S. citizen. He was born in Lahore and became a U.S. citizen in 2002. He has lived in the US since 1993. He holds a bachelor's degree in Computer Science from the College of Staten Island and worked as a network design contractor for Ericsson. He was enrolled in an online degree in risk management from Aspen University. He is married and has a son. He has a history of several speeding violations and credit problems. At his initial court appearance, he claimed that he could not afford a lawyer.\n\nAccording to the White House press secretary, Barack Obama was made aware of Ahmed's activities prior to his arrest. Ahmed was arrested early on October 27, 2010. He was accused of scouting the Metrorail station in Arlington County, Virginia and recording video of the station on four different occasions. In July, he handed over the footage to an individual who he believed to be an operative of Al-Qaeda. According to the indictment, he told undercover agents that an attack would cause most casualties between 4:00 p.m. and 5:00 p.m. and suggested placing the bombs in rolling suitcases. The plan of attack began as early as April 18, 2010, according to officials.\n\nHe told also undercover agents that he would be ready to conduct jihad against America in January 2011 after completing Hajj in November 2010. At the time of his arrest, it did not appear that Ahmed had received any militant training overseas from Al-Qaeda or its associates. He told operatives that he was willing to martyr himself and had taught himself martial arts, use of firearms, and knife and gun tactics, skills he offered to teach others.\n\nOn April 11, 2011, Ahmed was sentenced to 23 years in prison after pleading guilty to attempting to provide material support to a designated foreign terrorist organization and collecting information to assist in planning a terrorist attack on a transit facility. As a part of a plea bargain, the prosecutors dropped one of the charges and Ahmed who had faced up to 50 years in prison agreed to a 23-year sentence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49492916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49492916", "title": "Francesc de Castellví i Obando", "text": "Francesc de Castellví i Obando\n\nFrancesc de Castellví i Obando (1682 - 15 September 1757) was a Catalan chronicler and historian who fought for the Austriacist side in the 1714 Siege of Barcelona. Castellví is primarily known for writing \"Narraciones Históricas\" during his stay in Austria, a work in which he explains the events that took place during the Siege of Barcelona based upon his own experiences.\n\nFrancesc de Castellví was born in 1682 in Montblanc, in the Principality of Catalonia. Raised in a small but distinguished family, Castellví received a good education, studying science and literature during his youth. During the War of the Spanish Succession, he was a member of the military branch of the \"Junta de Braços\", one of the key political organizations in Catalonia during the war. In 1713, he and the rest of the members of the Junta de Braços decided to continue resisting the siege, despite receiving several capitulation offers from the Bourbonics and not having any possibility of success. He fought as a captain during the defense of Barcelona, being a member of the \"Coronela\", an urban militia mainly composed of civilians, that sought to defend the city. Castellví led the 2nd company of the Immaculada Concepció de la Verge Maria battalion as a captain. On the 14 of August, he was wounded while fighting at the Sant Pere bastion. During the September 11 battle, while he and his men were performing a counterattack on the Bourbonic forces, Barcelona capitulated, thus ending the conflict. Once Philip V's troops occupied Barcelona, Castellví was sentenced to surveillanced liberty, and had all his territorial possessions confiscated.\n\nIn 1726, a peace treaty was signed between Philip V and Charles VI. The treaty provided amnesty for political prisoners, and Castellví exiled himself to Austria, where he wrote \"Narraciones Históricas desde el año 1700 hasta el año 1725\". He used Bourbonic and Austriacist sources in order to complete his work, as well as accounts from other figures who emigrated to Austria after the war and his own personal experiences.\n\nHe was amongst the Catalans who embarked in an expedition in the Danube River from 1735 to 1738, in an attempt to found a new city, named Nova Barcelona. Nevertheless, the project failed, due to the dangerous proximity of the city to the Ottoman Empire and a black plague epidemic. He then returned to Vienna, where emperor Charles VI granted him an annuity, for being an ex-participant of the War of Succession. He remained in Austria until his death in 1757.\n"}
{"id": "4040782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4040782", "title": "Francisco Adolfo de Varnhagen, Viscount of Porto Seguro", "text": "Francisco Adolfo de Varnhagen, Viscount of Porto Seguro\n\nFrancisco Adolfo de Varnhagen, Viscount of Porto Seguro (February 17, 1816 – June 26, 1878), was a Brazilian diplomat and historian. He is the patron of the 39th chair of the Brazilian Academy of Letters. He is considered \"the father of modern Brazilian historical scholarship.\"\n\nVarnhagen was born in 1816, in the city of Iperó, Brazil. He was the son of Maria Flávia de Sá Magalhães and Friedrich Ludwig Wilhelm Varnhagen, a German-born military engineer, who was in service to the Portuguese crown and in Brazil to inspect iron foundries. He received his primary education in Rio de Janeiro. At an early age, he went with his family to Lisbon, where he studied at the Real Colégio Militar da Luz. In the civil war in Portugal, he served those supporting Dom Pedro I. He returned to his studies, where he learned paleography and studied political economy and languages (French, German, English). \n\nHis first History work would be \"Notícia do Brasil\", written between 1835 and 1838. His research would lead him to find Pedro Álvares Cabral's long-lost grave at the Igreja da Graça, in Santarém. He was admitted at the Sciences Academy of Lisbon and graduated in military engineering at the Academia Real de Fortificação, Artilharia e Desenho.\n\nHe returned to Brazil in 1840, entering at the Brazilian Historic and Geographic Institute in 1841. In 1844 he obtained Brazilian citizenship, and could apply to a diplomatic career. He served in Portugal and Spain, where he was able to utilize the archives in Seville and Simancas for his history of Brazil. He later served in Paraguay, where he found the current regime of Carlos Antonio López odious, but he gathered further materials for his history of Brazil, particularly on the Tupí Indians. He also served in Venezuela, the Republic of New Granada (modern Colombia), Ecuador, Chile (where he met his wife, an aristocratic Chilean lady Doña Carmen Ovalle y Vicuña, marrying her in 1864), Peru and the Netherlands. He published the first volume of his masterpiece, \"História Geral do Brasil\", in 1854. Its second volume was published in 1857.\n\nIn 1872, Emperor Pedro II would give him the title of Baron of Porto Seguro, being elevated to Viscount two years later. His final diplomatic service was in Vienna, Austria, where he was serving as a minister when he died in 1878.\n\nHis remains were transported to Santiago, Chile, but would be years later removed to a monument erected in honor of him at the city of Sorocaba. Part of his library was acquired by bibliophile José Mindlin.\n\nVarnhagen's work was recognized at the time as a major contribution to historical writing on Brazil, with Alexander von Humboldt, the great Prussia scientist and intellectual, saying that \"I will be glad to have [Varnhagen's history of Brazil] in its entirety and to see it reposing in our library.\" Varnhagen participated in political debate about the importance of Brazil's Indians in the formation of Brazil. He rejected the Indianist school that saw Brazil's Indians as \"noble savages\" and \"a basis for \"brasilidade\" (Brazilianness)., In volume two of his \"História Geral do Brazil\", Varnhagen added an appendix that dealt with this issue. \"The Indians were not masters of Brazil nor is the name Brazilian applicable to them as savages. Nor could they be civilized without the presence of force, which was not abused as much as stated. and finally they can in no way be taken as our guides in the present or past in sentiments of patriotism or in the representation of nationality.\" In general, Varnhagen was pro-monarchy, since it gave Brazil a strong central government and took the part of Portuguese colonists in debates about the colonial era. He had a mixed assessment of the Jesuits in Brazil, whom he did credit for contributions. For the thirty-year Dutch occupation of Brazil's northeast, he viewed the episode as lamentable on one hand, but beneficial to Brazil on the other, viewing the Dutch as \"a nation more active and industrious\" than Brazil at the time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11930474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11930474", "title": "French Gothic architecture", "text": "French Gothic architecture\n\nFrench Gothic architecture is a style which emerged in France in 1140, and was dominant until the mid-16th century. The most notable examples are the great Gothic cathedrals of France, including Notre Dame Cathedral, Chartres Cathedral, and Amiens Cathedral. Its main characteristics were the search for verticality, or height, and the innovative use of flying buttresses and other architectural innovations to distribute the weight of the stone structures to supports on the outside, allowing unprecedented height and volume, The new techniques also permitted the addition of larger windows, including enormous stained glass windows, which filled the cathedrals with light. The French style was widely copied in other parts of northern Europe, particularly Germany and England. It was gradually supplanted as the dominant French style in the mid-16th century by French Renaissance architecture.\n\nFrench Gothic architecture was the result of the emergence in the 12th century of powerful French state centered in the Ile-de-France. During the reign of Louis VI of France (1081-1137), Paris was the principal residence of the Kings of France, Reims the place of coronation, and the Abbey of Saint-Denis became their ceremonial burial place. The Abbot of Saint-Denis, Suger, was a counselor of Louis VI and Louis VII, as well as an historian. He oversaw the reconstruction of the ambulatory of Saint-Denis, making it the first and most influential example of Gothic architecture in France.\n\nOver the later course of the Capetian dynasty (1180 to 1328), three Kings; Philip Augustus (1180-1223); Louis IX of France (1226-1270) and Philip le Bel (1285-1314) established France as the major economic and political power on the Continent. The period also saw the founding of the University of Paris or Sorbonne. It produced the high Gothic and the Flamboyant Gothic styles, and the construction of some of the most famous cathedrals, including Chartres Cathedral, Reims Cathedral, and Amiens Cathedral.\n\nThe Gothic style emerged from innovative use of existing technologies, such as the pointed arch and the rib vault. The rib vault was known in the earlier Romanesque period, but it was not widely or effectively used until the Gothic period. The crossed ribs of the vault carried the weight outwards and downwards, to clusters of supporting pillars and columns. The earlier rib vaults, used at Sens Cathedral and Notre-Dame Cathedral, had six compartments bordered by ribs and the crossing arch, which transferred the weight to alternating columns and pillars. A new innovation appeared during the High Gothic: the four-part rib vault, which was used in Chartres Cathedral, Amiens Cathedral and Reims Cathedral. The ribs of this vault distributed the weight more equally to the four supporting pillars below, and established a closer connection between the nave and the lower portions of the church walls, and between the arcades below and the windows above. This allowed for greater height and thinner walls, and contributed to the strong impression of verticality given by the newer Cathedrals.\n\nThe second major innovation of the Gothic style was the flying buttress, which was first used at Notre Dame Cathedral. This transferred the thrust of the weight of the roof outside the walls, where it was countered by the weight of the buttress. Heavy stone pinnacles were added to the top of the buttresses, to precisely counterbalance the thrust from inside the walls. The buttress allowed a significant reduction in the thickness of the cathedral walls, and permitted the use of larger windows in the interior of the church. In churches such as Sainte Chapelle, thanks to buttresses, the walls were made almost entirely of stained glass.\n\nThe development of rib-vaults and buttresses brought gradual changes to the interior structure of cathedrals. Early Gothic cathedrals had the walls of the nave built in four levels, a gallery with columns on the ground level; then the tribune, a gallery with windows; then the triforium, a row of smaller windows, and finally the high windows. just below the vaults. During the high Gothic period, with the development of the four part rib vault and the flying buttress, the tribune was eliminated at Chartres and other new cathedrals, allowing taller windows and arcades. By the 15th century, at Rouen Cathedral, the triforium also disappeared, and the walls between the traverses were filled with high windows.\n\nAnother innovative feature of the French Gothic cathedral was the design of the portal or entry, which by long Christian tradition faced west. The Basilica of St Denis had a triple portal, decorated with columns in the form of statues of apostles and saints around the doorways, and biblical scenes crowded with statuary over the doorways. This triple portal was adopted by all the major cathedrals. A tympanum over the portal, crowded with sculptural figures illustrating a biblical story became a feature of Gothic cathedrals. Following the example of Amiens, the tympanum over the central portal traditionally depicted the Last Judgement, the right portal showed the coronation of the Virgin Mary, and the left portal showed the lives of saints who were important in the diocese.\n\nLarge stained glass windows and rose windows were another defining feature of the Gothic style. Some Gothic windows, like those at Chartres, were cut into the stone walls. Other windows, such as those in the chapels of Notre-Dame and Reims, were in stone frames installed into the walls. The most common form was an oculus, a small round window with two lancets, or windows with pointed arches, just below it. The Rose window was the most famous type of the Gohtic style. They were plead in the transepts and the portals to provide light to the nave. The largest rose windows were ten meters in diameter. They had a framework of stone armatures often in an ornate floral pattern, to help them resist the wind. Gothic windows were in a stone frame separate from the wall, not cut into the wall.\n\nThe early windows were made of pieces of tinted glass, touched up with grisaille painting, and held in place by pieces of lead that outlined the figures. As the windows grew larger, more intense colors were used. After 1260, the colors became lighter, and the combination of grisaille and pale shades of yellow became more common. Chartres Cathedral and Le Mans Cathedral have some of the finest surviving original windows.\n\nThe periods of French Gothic architecture are generally given as follows:\n\n\nBecause of the lengthy period of construction of Gothic Cathedrals, very few were built in a single style. Most, like Notre Dame, have a combination of features constructed in several different periods, as well as features constructed after the Gothic age.\n\nThe birthplace of the new style was the Basilica of Saint-Denis in the Île-de-France, not far north of Paris, where in 1137 The Abbé Suger began the reconstruction of the Carolingian-era abbey church. He began building a new structure with two towers to the west of the original church, and then from 1140 to 1144 began to reconstruct the old church. Most of his modifications were traditional, but he made one remarkable innovation; he decided to create a new choir at the east end of the building, eliminating the traditional supporting walls of the old chapels, giving the interior a striking appearance of openness and greater height.\n\nTo achieve his aims, Suger's masons drew on the several new elements which evolved or had been introduced to Romanesque architecture: the pointed arch; the ribbed vault; the ambulatory with radiating chapels; and the columns wrapped in the ribs which supported the vaults. The builders constructed the walls of the church in four levels; the arcades, whose two rows of columns received the ribs of the ceiling vaults; the tribune above it, a gallery which concealed the massive contreforts or buttresses which pressed against the walls; the triforium, another, narrower gallery; and, just below the ceiling, the \"claire-voie\" or clerestorey, where the windows were located. All of these features had existed in the Romanesque period, but it was the first time had all been combined and the result differed dramatically from the previous Romanesque architecture. Another innovation introduced by Suger was the use of columns in the form of statues of saints to decorate the portal of the church, adding a new element of verticality to the facade. This idea too was copied in new cathedrals.\n\nThe new style quickly became known to the builders of new cathedrals, notably Sens Cathedral, the first Gothic Cathedral (begun 1135); Senlis Cathedral (1160), and the most prominent of all, Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris (begun 1160). Their builders abandoned the traditional plans and introduced the new Gothic elements. The builders of Notre Dame went further by introducing the flying buttress, heavy columns of support outside the walls connected by arches to the walls, which received and counterbalanced the thrust from the rib vaults of the roof. This allowed the builders to construct higher walls and larger windows.\n\nFrom the end of the 12th century until the middle of the 13th century, the Gothic style spread from the cathedrals in Île-de-France to appear in other cities of northern France, notably Chartres Cathedral (begun 1200); Bourges Cathedral (1195 to 1230), Reims Cathedral (1211–1275), and Amiens Cathedral (begun 1250); The characteristic Gothic elements were refined to make the new cathedrals taller, wider, and more full of light. At Chartres, the use of the flying buttresses allowed the elimination of the tribune level, which allowed much higher arcades and nave, and larger windows. The pillars were made of a central column surrounded by four more slender columns, which reached up to support the arches of the vaulted ceiling. The rib vault changed from six to four ribs, simpler and stronger. The flying buttresses at Amiens and Chartes were strengthened by with an additional arch and with a supporting arcade, allowing even higher and walls and more windows. At Reims, the buttresses were given greater weight and strength by the addition of heavy stone pinacles on top. These were often decorated with statues of angels, and became an important decorative element of the High Gothic style. Another practical and decorative element, the gargoyle, appeared; it was an ornamental rain spout which channeled the water from the roof away from the building. At Amiens, the windows of the nave were made larger, and an additional row of clear glass windows (the claire-voie) flooded the interior with light. The new structural technologies allowed the enlargement of the transepts and the choirs at the east end of the cathedrals, creating the space for a ring of well-lit chapels.\n\nThe next period of French gothic architecture, from the second half of the 13th century until the 1370s, was termed \"Rayonnant\" (\"Radiant\"), describing the tendency toward the use of more and more stained glass and less masonry in the design of the structure, until the walls seemed entirely made of glass. The most celebrated example was the chapel of Sainte-Chapelle, attached to the royal residence on the Palais de la Cité. An elaborate system of exterior columns and arches reduced the walls of the upper chapel to a thin framework for the enormous windows. The weight of each of the masonry gables above the archivolt of the windows also helped the walls to resist the thrust and to distribute the weight.\n\nAnother landmark of the Rayonnant Gothic are the two rose windows on the north and south of the transept of Notre Dame Cathedral, whereas earlier rose windows, like those of Amiens Cathedral, were framed by stone and occupied only a portion of the wall, these two windows, with a delicate lacelike framework, occupied the entire space between the pillars.\n\nThe Flamboyant Gothic style appeared in the second half of the 14th century. Its characteristic features were more exuberant decoration, as the nobles and wealthy citizens of mostly northern French cities competed to build more and more elaborate churches and cathedrals. It took its name from the sinuous, flame-like designs which ornamented windows. Other new features included the \"arc en accolade\", a window decorated with an arch, stone pinnacles and floral sculpture. It also featured an increase in the number of \"nervures\", or ribs, that supported and decorated each vault of the ceiling, both for greater support and decorative effect. Notable examples of Flamboyant Gothic include the western facade of Rouen Cathedral and Sainte-Chapelle de Vincennes in Paris, both built in the 1370s; and the Choir of Mont Saint Michel Abbey (about 1448).\n\nThe most famous examples of Gothic architecture are found in the Île-de-France and Champagne, but other French regions created their own original versions of the style. The Angevin Gothic style in the province of Anjou features a vaults with elegant decorative ribs, as well as very ornate columns. The style is found in the interior of Angers Cathedral (1032–1523), though many of the Gothic elements of the facade were replaced with Renaissance elements and towers. A very fine example of Angevin Gothic is found in the medieval Saint Jean Hospital in Angers, which now contains the Musée Jean-Lurçat, a museum of contemporary tapestries.\n\nPoitiers Cathedral in the historic province of Maine also features a distinctive regional Gothic style. It was begun in 1162 under KingH Henry II of England and Eleanor of Aquitaine. Its distinctive features, like those of Angevin Gothic, include convex vaults with ribs in decorative designs.\n\nBurgundy also had its own version of Gothic, found in Nevers Cathedral (1211–1331), Dijon Cathedral (1280–1325), and Chalon Cathedral (1220–1522). The Burgundian Gothic tended to be more sober and monumental than the more ornate northern style, and often included elements of earlier romanesque churches on the same site.\n\nThe south of France had its own distinct variation of the Gothic style : the Southern French Gothic. A prominent example is Albi Cathedral in the Tarn Department, built between 1282 and 1480. It was originally constructed as a fortress, then transformed into a church. Due to a lack of suitable stone, it was constructed almost entirely of brick, and is one of the largest brick buildings in the world.\n\nThe largest civic building built in the Gothic style in France was the Palais des Papes (Palace of the Popes) constructed between 1252 and 1364, when the Popes fled the political chaos and wars enveloping Rome. Given the complicated political situation, it combined the functions of a church, a seat of government and a fortress.\n\nIn the 15th century, following the late Gothic or flamboyant period, some elements of Gothic decoration borrowed from cathedrals began to appear in civil architecture, particularly in the region of Flanders in northern France, and in Paris. The Hôtel de Ville of Compiègne has an imposing gothic bell tower, featuring a spire surrounded by smaller towers, and its windows are decorated with ornate \"accolades\" or ornamental arches. Similarly flamboyant town halls were found in Arras, Douai, and Saint-Quentin, Aisne, and across the border in Belgium in Brussels and Bruges. Unfortunately many of the finest buildings were destroyed during World War I, due to their proximity to the front lines. \nGothic features also appeared in the elaborate residences built by the nobility and wealthy bourgeoisie in Paris and other large cities. examples include the Hôtel Cluny (now the Musée de Cluny – Musée national du Moyen Âge in Paris, and particularly the palatial house built by merchant Jacques Cœur in Bourges (1440–50). Another good example in Paris is the Tour Jean-sans-Peur, which features a Gothic watch tower and a flamboyant gothic ceiling.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages Prosperous French cities competed to build the largest cathedral or the highest tower. One of the drawbacks of French Gothic architecture was its immense cost; it required small armies of skilled craftsmen working intently for decades. Due to downturns in the economy, a notable number of French cathedrals were begun but never finished. They also sometimes suffered when the ambitions of the architects exceeded their technical skills. One example was Beauvais Cathedral. Its patrons and architects sought to build the tallest church in the world. with a vaulted choir 48 meters high, taller than its nearby competitor, Amiens Cathedral, at 42 meters. Work began in 1225 but the roof of the vault was too heavy for the walls, and partially collapsed in 1272. They thickened the walls and rebuilt the vault and in 1569 they completed a tower, 72 meters high, which from 1569–1573 made Beauvais Cathedral the tallest structure in the world. However, in 1573, the new tower collapsed, fortunately without any casualties. The church remains today as it was, with the choir, some of the ambulatory, apse, some chapels, but no nave or tower.\n\nBeginning in the 1530s, the style of French religious and civil architecture also began to show the influence of the Italian Renaissance. Charles VIII of France and Louis XII of France had both participated in military campaigns in Italy, and had seen the new architecture there. Large numbers of Italian stonemasons had come to Paris to work on the new Pont Notre-Dame (1507–1512) and other construction sites. The Fontaine des Innocents, built by sculptor Jean Goujon to celebrate the entrance of Henry II into Paris in 1549, was the first Renaissance monument in the city. It was soon followed by the new facade of the Cour Carré of the Louvre, also decorated by Jean Goujon. The new Paris Hotel de Ville (1533–1568) was also constructed in an Italianate rather than Gothic style. Most important of all, the new Tuileries Palace by Philippe Delorme, built for Catherine de' Medici, begun in 1564, was inspired by Italian palaces.\n\nReligious –buildings were slower to change. The Church of the Carmes-Deschaussé (1613–1620) on rue Vaugirard in Paris, and especially the church of St-Gervais-et-St-Protais by Salomon de Brosse (1615–21) with a facade based on the superposition of the three orders of classical architecture, represented the new model. However, the Gothic style remained prominent in new churches. The Church of Saint Eustache in Paris, (1532–1640) which rivaled Notre-Dame in size, combined a gothic plan with renaissance decoration.\n\nIn the course of the 17th century, the French classical style of François Mansart began to dominate; then, under Louis XIV, the grand French classical style, practiced by Jules Hardouin-Mansart, Louis Le Vau, and Claude Perrault, took center stage. Landmarks of the Gothic style, such as Notre-Dame, were modified with new interiors designed in the new style. Following the new fashion of his patron, Louis XIV, the poet Molière ridiculed the Gothic style in a 1669 poem: \"...the insipid taste of Gothic ornamentation, these odious monstrosities of an ignorant age, produced by the torrents of barbarism...\".\n\nDuring the French Revolution, Gothic churches were symbols of the old regime and became targets for the Revolutionaries; the cathedrals were nationalized, and stripped of ornament and valuables. The statues of the Biblical figures on the facade of Notre-Dame were beheaded, under the false belief they were statues of the French Kings. Under Napoleon Bonaparte, the cathedrals were returned to the church, but were left in a lamentable state of repair.\n\nIn the 13th century, the design of the \"chateau fort\", or castle, was modified, based on the Byzantine and Moslem castles the French knights had seen during the Crusades. The new kind of fortification was called Phillipienne, after Philippe Auguste, who had taken part in the Crusades. The new fortifications were more geometric, usually square, with a high main \"donjon\" or tower, in the center, which could be defended even if the walls of the castle were captured. The Donjon of the Chateau de Vincennes, begun by Philip VI of France, was a good example. It was 52 meters high, the tallest military tower in Europe.\n\nIn the Phillipienne castle other towers, usually round were placed at the corners and along the walls, close enough together to support each other. The walls had two levels of walkways on the inside, an upper parapet with openings (\"Crénaux\") from which soldiers could watch or fire arrows on besiegers below; narrow openings (\"Merlons\") through which they could be sheltered as they fired arrows; and floor openings (\"Mâchicoulis\"), from which they could drop rocks, burning oil or other objects on the besiegers. The upper walls also had protected protruding balconies, \"Échauguettes\" and \"Bretéches\", from which soldiers could see what was happening at the corners or on the ground below. In addition, the towers and walls were pierced with narrow vertical slits, called \"Meurtriéres\", through which archers could fire arrows. In later castles the slits took the form of crosses, so that archers could fire \"arbalètes\", or crossbows, in different directions.\n\nCastles were surrounded by deep moat, spanned by a single drawbridge. The entrance was also protected by a grill of iron which could be opened and closed. The walls at the bottom were often sloping, and protected with earthen barriers, to One good surviving example is the Château de Dourdan in the Seine-et-Marne department, near Nemours.\n\nAfter the end of the Hundred Years War (1337-1453), with improvements in artillery, the castles lost most of their military importance. They remained as symbols of the rank of their noble occupants; the narrowing openings in the walls were often widened into the windows of bedchambers and ceremonial halls. The tower of the Chateau of Vincennes became a royal residence.\n\nIn the 19th century, portions of the Gothic walls and towers of the city of Carcasonne were restored, with some modification, by Eugene Viollet-le-Duc. He also rebuilt the Château de Pierrefonds, (1393-1407) an unfinished medieval castle, making it into a neo-Gothic residence for Napoleon III. This project was incomplete when Napoleon III was overthrown in 1870, but can be visited today.\n\nA large part of the Gothic architectural heritage of France, particularly the churches and monasteries, had been damaged or destroyed during the Revolution. Of the 300 churches in Paris in the 16th century, only 97 still were standing in 1800. The Basilica of St Denis had been stripped of its stained glass and monumental tombs, while the statues on the façade of the cathedral of Notre-Dame de Paris had been beheaded and taken down. Throughout the country, churches and monasteries had been demolished or turned into barns, cafes, schools, or prisons. The first effort to catalog the remaining monuments was made in 1816 by Alexandre de Laborde, who wrote the first list of \"Monuments of France\". In 1831 interest in Gothic architecture grew even greater following the huge popular success of the romantic novel \"Notre-Dame de Paris\" by Victor Hugo. In 1832 Hugo wrote an article for the \"Revue des deux Mondes\" which declared war against the \"massacre of ancient stones\" and the \"demolishers\" of France's past. Louis Philippe declared that restoration of churches and other monuments would be a priority of his regime. In October 1830, the position of Inspector of Historical Monuments had been created by the Interior Minister, François Guizot, a professor of history at the Sorbonne. In 1833 Prosper Mérimée became its second Inspector, and by far the most energetic and long-lasting. He held the position for twenty-seven years.\n\nUnder Louis Philippe,French Gothic architecture was officially recognized as a treasure of French culture. Under Mérimée's direction, the first efforts to restore major Gothic monuments began. In 1835 The church of Saint Séverin in Paris was among first to undergo restoration, followed in 1836 by Sainte-Chapelle, which had been turned into a storage house for government archives after the Revolution, The restoration of Saint-Chapelle as led by Félix Duban with Jean-Baptiste Antoine Lassus and a young Eugène Viollet-le-Duc. In 1843 Lassus and Viollet-le-Duc won the competition for restoration of Notre-Dame de Paris Over the rest of the 19th century, all of the major Gothic cathedrals of France underwent extensive restoration.\n\nFrench Gothic architecture also experienced a modest revival, largely confined to new churches. Neo-Gothic churches built in Paris included Sainte-Clothilde by Theodore Ballu (1841–57); and Saint-Laurent, Paris by Simon-Claude-Constant Dufeux (1862–65). Jean=Baptiste Lassus became the most prolific neo-Gothic architect in France, constructing Saint-Nicolas de Nantes (1840), Sacré-Coeur de Moulins (1849), Saint-Pierre de Dijon (1850), Saint-Jean-Baptiste de Belleville (1853) and the Église de Cusset (1855). The Saint-Eugene-Sainte-Cécile in Paris by Louis-Auguste Boileau and Adrien-Louis Lasson (1854–55) was the most innovative example of neo-Gothic; it combined a traditional Gothic design with a modern iron framework. Jules Verne was married in the church in 1857.\n\nThe Gothic cathedral was a \"liber pauperum\", literally a \"book for the poor\", covered with sculpture illustrating biblical stories, for the vast majority of parishioners who were illiterate. These largely illustrated stories from the Bible, but also included stories and figures from mythology and more complicated symbols taken from medieval philosophical and scientific teachings such as alchemy.\n\nThe exteriors of Cathedrals and other Gothic churches were decorated with sculptures of a variety of fabulous and frightening grotesques or monsters, These included the gargoyle, the chimera, the dragon, the tarasque, and others, taken largely from legend and mythology. They were part of the visual message for the illiterate worshipers, symbols of the evil and danger that threatened those who did not follow the teachings of the church.\n\nThe Gargoyle also had a more practical purpose. They were the rain spouts of the Cathedral; rainwater ran from the roof into lead gutters, then down channels on the flying buttresses to the mouths of the gargoyles. The longer the gargoyle, the farther the water was projected from the walls, protecting the walls and windows from water damage. Multiple numbers were used to distribute the water as widely as possible.\n\nAmid all the religious figures, some of the sculptural decoration was devoted to illustrating medieval science and philosophy. The porch of Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris and of Amiens Cathedral are decorated with similar small carved figures holding circular plaques with symbols of transformation taken from alchemy. The central pillar of the central door of Notre Dame features a statue of a woman on a throne holding a scepter in her left hand, and in her right hand, two books, one open (symbol of public knowledge), and the other closed (esoteric knowledge), along with a ladder with seven steps, symbolizing the seven steps alchemists followed in their scientific quest of trying to transform ordinary metal into gold.\n\nAnother common feature of Gothic cathedrals was a design of a labyrinth, usually found in stone on the floor in a central part of the Cathedral. Inapired by the labyrinth in Greek legend constructed by King Minos as the home of the Minotaur, In Cathedrals, they were known as the \"Path of Jerusalem\" and symbolized the difficult and often roundabout path that a Christian sometimes had to follow in life to reach the gates of Paradise and salvation. Large labyrinths were originally found in Auxerre Cathedral, Sens Cathedral, Reims Cathedral, and Arras Cathedral, but these removed during various renovations in the 18th century. The best surviving examples are in Chartres Cathedral, in its original form, and in Amiens Cathedral, which was reconstructed in 1894.\n\nThe portal sculpture of Burgundy integrates Classical, literary elements with its 13th century Gothic style. In Auxerre, two such examples of sculptures are upon the Cathedral of Saint-Étienne depicting Hercules, a satyr, and a sleeping faun; the Chartres–Reims cathedral's north transept illustrates the biblical tale of David and Bathsheba. The Sens Cathedral's \"Coronation of the Virgin\" reflects a similar relief cathedral on the Notre Dame in Paris, and was created in a workshop that made minor contributions to Spanish Gothic architecture\n\nEarly Gothic:\n\nHigh Gothic:\n\nRayonnant:\n\nLate Gothic (Flamboyant):\n\nIn addition to these Gothic styles, there is another style called \"Gothique méridional\", Southern Gothic, as opposed to Gothique septentrional, Northern Gothic. This style is characterized by a large nave, and has no transept. Examples of this Gothic architecture are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7387429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7387429", "title": "H. Adams Carter", "text": "H. Adams Carter\n\nHubert Adams \"Ad\" Carter (June 6, 1914 – April 1, 1995) was an American mountaineer, language teacher and was editor of the \"American Alpine Journal\" for 35 years.\n\nCarter was born in Newton, Massachusetts in 1914, and made his first ascent of Mount Washington (1,917 metres) at the age of five. He graduated from Milton Academy in Milton, Massachusetts in 1932 and from Harvard College in 1936.\n\nIn 1934, Carter participated with Bradford Washburn in the first ascent of Mount Crillon (3,879 m) in Alaska. In 1936, he was a member of the British–American Himalayan Expedition that made the first ascent of Nanda Devi (7,816 m) in India, which remained the highest mountain ever climbed until 1950.\n\nCarter also became a member of the United States Ski Team, competing in the Alpine World Skiing Championships in 1937, and the Panamerican championships in 1938.\n\nDuring World War II, Carter assisted in the creation and training of the 10th Mountain Division. He translated material in German, French, Spanish, and Italian for use in writing the first Army manuals on mountain warfare, and developing equipment. Carter also interrogated German and Japanese POWs. In 1945, Carter was awarded a Commendation for Meritorious Civilian Service for his wartime service.\n\nAfter receiving a master's degree from Middlebury College in 1947, Carter returned to Milton Academy, where he taught French, German and Spanish until his retirement in 1979. He also founded the school's Ski and Mountaineering Club, which has become the H. Adams Carter Outdoor Program. Carter often used his second home in Jefferson, New Hampshire as a base camp for school trips to the White Mountains.\n\nCarter served as an officer of the American Alpine Club from 1954 to 1958 and as editor of the \"American Alpine Journal\" from 1960 to 1995. Under his tenure as editor the \"Journal\" became one of the pre-eminent worldwide journals of record for mountaineering. He continued to participate in mountaineering expeditions, including one to survey Ojos del Salado (6,893 m) in 1956, several trips to the Cordillera Blanca in Peru, and a second expedition to Nanda Devi in 1976, which he co-led with Louis Reichardt and Willi Unsoeld.\n\nDue his long work as editor of the \"American Alpine Journal\", Carter became an important chronicler of mountaineering.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3172581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3172581", "title": "Herbert Eugene Bolton", "text": "Herbert Eugene Bolton\n\nHerbert Eugene Bolton (July 20, 1870 – January 30, 1953) was an American historian who pioneered the study of the Spanish-American borderlands and was a prominent authority on Spanish American history. He originated what became known as the \"Bolton Theory\" of the history of the Americas which holds that it is impossible to study the history of the United States in isolation from the histories of other American nations, and wrote or co-authored 94 works. A student of Frederick Jackson Turner, Bolton disagreed with his mentor's Frontier theory and argued that the history of the Americas is best understood by taking a holistic view and trying to understand the ways in which the different colonial and precolonial contexts have interacted to produce the modern United States. The height of his career was spent at the University of California, Berkeley where he served as chair of the history department for 22 years and is widely credited with making the renowned Bancroft Library the preeminent research center it is today.\n\nBolton was born on a farm between Wilton and Tomah, Wisconsin in 1870 to Edwin Latham and Rosaline (Cady) Bolton. He attended the University of Wisconsin–Madison, where he was a brother of Theta Delta Chi, and graduated with a bachelor's degree in 1895. That same year he married Gertrude Janes, with whom he eventually had seven children.\n\nBolton studied under Frederick Jackson Turner from 1896 to 1897. Starting in 1897, Bolton was a Harrison Fellow at the University of Pennsylvania and studied American history under John Bach McMaster. In 1899, he received his Ph.D. from the University of Pennsylvania and then taught at Milwaukee State Normal School until 1900.\n\nFrom 1901 to 1909, Bolton was a history professor at the University of Texas, where he taught medieval and European history. He became interested in the Spanish colonization of the Americas and in summer 1902 began traveling to Mexico in search of historical documents.\n\nThe Carnegie Institution asked Bolton to write a report of information found about United States history in Mexican archives, and the report was published in 1913. Soon afterward, Bolton became an associate editor of the \"Quarterly of the Texas State Historical Association\" (now the \"Southwestern Historical Quarterly\").\n\nIn 1904, Bolton and Eugene C. Barker published \"With the Makers of Texas: A Source Reader in Texas History\", a textbook. In 1906, Bolton began studying Native Americans in Texas for the Bureau of Ethnology, writing more than 100 articles for the \"Handbook of American Indians North of Mexico\".\n\nIn 1911, Bolton became a professor at the University of California, Berkeley. There he served as the chair of the history department for 22 years and became the founding director of the renowned Bancroft Library. In his book \"The Americas\", George P. Hammond noted, “the next twenty years might well be called the Bolton era in historical studies at the University of California.” In his dual capacity as founding director and chairperson, he made Bancroft Library a great research center for American history and elevated his department into a top-ranking position in the historical world. Bolton was involved with the 1918 founding of \"The Hispanic American Historical Review\", the first specialized journal of Latin American history, serving as an advisory editor.\n\nHe taught the \"History of the Americas\" course, which enrolled up to a thousand students. His round-table seminar became famous, and the historians trained in that group have long been known as the “Bolton School.” At Berkeley he supervised more than 300 Masters Thesis and 104 doctoral dissertations, an all-time record. In 1914, Bolton published \"Athanase de Mézières and the Louisiana-Texas Frontier, 1768-1780\". A year later, Bolton published \"Texas in the Middle Eighteenth Century: Studies in Spanish Colonial History and Administration\". He declined the presidency of the University of Texas.\n\nOver the next 29 years, Bolton published many works, including \"Texas in the Middle Eighteenth Century\" (1921), \"The Spanish Borderlands\" (1921), \"Outpost of Empire\" (1931), \"Rim of Christendom\" (1936) and \"Coronado\" (1949), for which he received a Bancroft Prize from Columbia University.\n\nBolton rose to international fame and received numerous honors by the end of his career. The University of California conferred upon him the Sather Professorship in History. Ten colleges and universities of the United States and Canada granted him their highest honorary degrees. Universities in Latin America gave him honorary membership in their faculties. He was made Commander of the Royal Order of Isabella the Catholic in 1925 by the King of Spain. The government of Italy decorated him for his historical work on Father Eusebio Kino. Although Bolton was not a Catholic, Pope Pius XII in 1949 named him Knight of St. Sylvester as recognition for his contribution to the history of the Catholic Church in New Spain.\n\nIn 1932, Bolton served as president of the American Historical Association, and his presidential address, \"The Epic of Greater America,\" he laid out his vision of hemispheric history. In 1944 retired as a professor at Berkeley. He taught briefly at San Francisco State College (now University) in retirement. He died of a stroke in Berkeley, California, in 1953.\n\nBolton is best known for his research on Spanish colonial history in the Spanish-American borderlands and his vision of an integrated history of the Americas.\n\nBiographer Kathleen Egan Chamberlain argues:\n\nIn a collection of essays on the development of research and teaching of Latin American history, an entire section, \"Bolton, Boltonism, and Neo-Boltonism,\" was devoted to his work and influence, with nine essays and 66 pages devoted to him and his work. His 94 written works are still influential today, especially through the concepts of the Spanish Borderlands and the \"Bolton Theory\". The Bolton Prize of the Conference on Latin American History, the professional organization of Latin American historians, honors the best work in English on Latin American history.\n\nThe 1970 publication, \"The Spanish Borderland Frontier, 1513-1821\", by John Francis Bannon (1905–1986), provided a new synthesis of Spanish Borderlands historiography, based on his own work and fifty years of research by other Bolton scholars. Bannon focused on the successful Spanish expansion in New Spain, from eastern Texas westward.\n\nBolton's biggest mistake was his February 1937 authentication of Drake's Plate of Brass, which was a forgery of a mythical brass plaque purportedly placed by Sir Francis Drake upon his arrival in 1579.\n\nBolton Hall on the campus of the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee is named after him. Bolton taught there when it was the Milwaukee State Normal School in the late 19th century.\n\nHis doctoral students include Woodrow Borah, John W. Caughey, LeRoy R. Hafen, Abraham P. Nasatir, J. Fred Rippy, and Ursula Lamb.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39780889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39780889", "title": "Herman Tollius", "text": "Herman Tollius\n\nHerman Tollius (28 February 1742, Breda – 29 April 1822, Leiden) was a Dutch philologist and historian.\n\nHe studied jurisprudence in Leiden, earning his doctorate of law in 1763. From 1767 he served as a professor of rhetoric and Greek at the University of Harderwijk. Beginning in 1784 he was a private tutor to the children of Stadtholder William V. In 1809 he was appointed professor of statistics and diplomacy at Leiden, where he later worked as a professor of Greek and Latin languages.\n\nAmong his written efforts was an edition of Apollonius Sophista titled \"Apollonii Sophistae Lexicon graecum Iliadis et Odysseae\" (1788), and a work on constitutional writings involving events taking place in the United Netherlands in 1786/87, — \"Staatkundige geschriften, betreffende eenige gewigtige gebeurtenissenin de Vereendigde Nederlanden, gedurende de jaren MDCCLXXXVI, MDCCLXXXVII, en vervolgens\".\n\nHis daughter Bartha produced a handful of pastel portraits, including one of her father.\n"}
{"id": "421739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=421739", "title": "History of Czechoslovakia (1948–89)", "text": "History of Czechoslovakia (1948–89)\n\nFrom the Communist coup d'état in February 1948 to the Velvet Revolution in 1989, Czechoslovakia was ruled by the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia (Czech: \"Komunistická strana Československa\", KSČ). The country belonged to the Eastern Bloc and was a member of the Warsaw Pact and of Comecon. During the era of Communist Party rule, thousands of Czechoslovaks faced political persecution for various offences, such as trying to emigrate across the Iron Curtain.\n\nThe 1993 Act on Lawlessness of the Communist Regime and on Resistance Against It determined that the communist government was illegal and that the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia was a criminal organisation.\n\nOn February 25, 1948, President Edvard Beneš gave in to the demands of Communist Prime Minister Klement Gottwald and appointed a cabinet dominated by Communists. While it was nominally still a coalition, the \"non-Communists\" in the cabinet were mostly fellow travelers. This gave legal sanction to the KSČ coup, and marked the onset of undisguised Communist rule in Czechoslovakia. On 9 May, the National Assembly, purged of dissidents, passed a new constitution. It was not a completely Communist document; since a special committee prepared it in the 1945–48 period, it contained many liberal and democratic provisions. It reflected, however, the reality of Communist power through an addition that declared Czechoslovakia a people's republic — a preliminary step toward socialism and, ultimately, communism — ruled by the dictatorship of the proletariat, and also gave the Communist Party the leading role in the state. For these reasons, Beneš refused to sign the so-called Ninth-of-May Constitution. Nonetheless, elections were held on 30 May, and voters were presented with a single list from the National Front, the former governing coalition which was now a broad patriotic organisation under Communist control. Beneš resigned on 2 June, and Gottwald became president 12 days later.\n\nIn the next few years, bureaucratic centralism under the direction of KSČ leadership was introduced. So-called \"dissident\" elements were purged from all levels of society, including the Catholic Church. The ideological principles of Marxism-Leninism and socialist realism pervaded cultural and intellectual life. The entire education system was submitted to state control. With the elimination of private ownership of means of production, a planned economy was introduced. Czechoslovakia became a satellite state of the Soviet Union; it was a founding member of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (Comecon) in 1949 and of the Warsaw Pact in 1955. The attainment of Soviet-style \"socialism\" became the government's avowed policy.\n\nAlthough in theory Czechoslovakia remained a multiparty state, in actuality the Communists were in complete control. Political participation became subject to KSČ approval. The KSČ also prescribed percentage representation for non-Marxist parties. The National Assembly, purged of dissidents, became a mere rubber stamp for KSČ programs. In 1953, an inner cabinet of the National Assembly, the Presidium, was created. Composed of KSČ leaders, the Presidium served to convey party policies through government channels. Regional, district, and local committees were subordinated to the Ministry of Interior. Slovak autonomy was constrained; the KSS was reunited with the KSČ but retained its own identity.\n\nAfter consolidating power, Klement Gottwald began a series of mass purges against both political opponents and fellow communists, numbering in the tens of thousands. Children from blacklisted families were denied access to good jobs and higher education, there was widespread emigration out of the country into West Germany and Austria, and the educational system was reoriented to give opportunity to working class students.\n\nAlthough Gottwald originally sought a more independent line, a quick meeting with Stalin in 1948 convinced him otherwise and so he sought to impose the Soviet model on the country as thoroughly as possible. Gottwald was if anything a victim of circumstance, constrained by fear of his Soviet masters, and obliged to carry out their bidding. By 1951, Gottwald's health deteriorated and he was suffering from heart disease and syphilis in addition to alcoholism. He made few public appearances in his final year of life.\n\nGottwald died on March 14, 1953 of an aortic aneurysm, a week after attending Stalin's funeral in Moscow. He was succeeded by Antonín Zápotocký as president and by Antonín Novotný as head of the KSČ. Novotný became president in 1957 when Zápotocký died.\n\nCzechoslovak interests were subordinated to the interests of the Soviet Union. Joseph Stalin became particularly concerned about controlling and integrating the socialist bloc in the wake of Tito's challenge to his authority. Stalin's paranoia resulted in a campaign against \"rootless cosmopolitans\" which culminated in the conspiracy theory of the alleged Doctors' plot. In Czechoslovakia, the Stalinists also accused their opponents of \"conspiracy against the people's democratic order\" and \"high treason\" in order to oust them from positions of power. Many Communists with an \"international\" background, i.e., those with a wartime connection with the West, veterans of the Spanish Civil War, Jews, and Slovak \"bourgeois nationalists\", were arrested and executed in show trials (e.g., Heliodor Píka, Milada Horáková). Most spectacular was the Slánský trial against KSČ first secretary Rudolf Slánský and thirteen other prominent Communist personalities in November and December 1952. Slánský and ten other defendants were executed, while three were sentenced to life imprisonment. The KSČ rank-and-file membership, approximately 2.5 million in March 1948, began to be subjected to careful scrutiny. By 1960, KSČ membership had been reduced to 1.4 million.\n\nThe Ninth-of-May Constitution provided for the nationalization of all commercial and industrial enterprises having more than fifty employees. The non-agricultural private sector was nearly eliminated. Private ownership of land was limited to fifty hectares. The remnants of private enterprise and independent farming were permitted to carry on only as a temporary concession to the petite bourgeoisie and the peasantry. The Czechoslovak economy was determined by five-year plans.\n\nFollowing the Soviet example, Czechoslovakia began emphasizing the rapid development of heavy industry. The industrial sector was reorganized with an emphasis on metallurgy, heavy machinery, and coal mining. Production was concentrated in larger units; the more than 350,000 units of the pre-war period were reduced to about 1,700 units by 1958. Industrial output reportedly increased 233 percent between 1948 and 1959; employment in industry, 44 percent. The speed of industrialization was particularly accelerated in Slovakia, where production increased 347 percent and employment, 70 percent. Although Czechoslovakia's industrial growth of 170 percent between 1948 and 1957 was impressive, it was far exceeded by that of Japan (300 percent) and the Federal Republic of Germany (almost 300 percent) and more than equaled by Austria and Greece. For the 1954–59 period, France and Italy equalled Czechoslovak industrial growth.\n\nIndustrial growth in Czechoslovakia required substantial additional labor. Czechoslovaks were subjected to long hours and long workweeks to meet production quotas. Part-time, volunteer labour — students and white-collar workers — was drafted in massive numbers. Labor productivity, however, was not significantly increased, nor were production costs reduced. Czechoslovak products were characterized by poor quality. During the early years of the government, many political prisoners were sentenced to penal labor.\n\nThe Ninth-of-May Constitution declared the government's intention to collectivize agriculture. In February 1949, the National Assembly adopted the Unified Agricultural Cooperatives Act. Cooperatives were to be founded on a voluntary basis; formal title to land was left vested in the original owners. The imposition of high compulsory quotas, however, forced peasants to collectivize in order to increase efficiency and facilitate mechanization. Discriminatory policies were employed to bring about the ruin of recalcitrant kulaks (wealthy peasants). Collectivization was near completion by 1960. Sixteen percent of all farmland (obtained from collaborators and kulaks) had been turned into state farms. Despite the elimination of poor land from cultivation and a tremendous increase in the use of fertilizers and tractors, agricultural production declined seriously. By 1959, pre-war production levels still had not been met. Major causes of the decline were the diversion of labor from agriculture to industry (in 1948 an estimated 2.2 million workers were employed in agriculture; by 1960, only 1.5 million); the suppression of the kulak, the most experienced and productive farmer; and the peasantry's opposition to collectivization, which resulted in sabotage.\n\nThe 1960 Constitution of Czechoslovakia declared the victory of \"socialism\" and proclaimed the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic. The ambiguous precept of \"democratic centralism\" — power emanating from the people but bound by the authority of higher organs — was made a formal part of constitutional law. The president, the cabinet, the Slovak National Council, and the local governments were made responsible to the National Assembly. The National Assembly, however, continued its rubber-stamp approval of KSČ policies. All private enterprises using hired labour were abolished. Comprehensive economic planning was reaffirmed. The Bill of Rights emphasized economic and social rights, e.g., the right to work, leisure, health care, and education. Civil rights, however, were deemphasized. The judiciary was combined with the prosecuting branch; all judges were committed to the protection of the socialist state and the education of citizens in loyalty to the cause of socialism.\n\nDe-Stalinization had a late start in Czechoslovakia. The KSČ leadership virtually ignored the Soviet law announced by Nikita Khrushchev February 25, 1956 at the 20th Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. In Czechoslovakia that April, at the Second Writers' Congress, several authors criticized acts of political repression and attempted to gain control of the writers' congress. The writers' rebellion was suppressed, however, and the conservatives retained control. Students in Prague and Bratislava demonstrated on May Day of 1956, demanding freedom of speech and access to the Western press. The Novotný regime condemned these activities and introduced a policy of neo-Stalinism. \nAfter the Hungarian Revolution of October 1956 had been suppressed by Russian tanks and troops, many Czechs lost courage.\n\nThe 1958 KSČ Party Congress (XI. Congress, 18. June−21. June) formalized the continuation of Stalinism.\n\nIn the early 1960s, the Economy of Czechoslovakia became severely stagnated. The industrial growth rate was the lowest in Eastern Europe. Food imports strained the balance of payments. Pressures both from Moscow and from within the party precipitated a reform movement. In 1963 reform-minded Communist intellectuals produced a proliferation of critical articles. Criticism of economic planning merged with more generalized protests against KSČ bureaucratic control and ideological conformity. The KSČ leadership responded. The purge trials of 1949-54 were reviewed, for example, and some of those purged were rehabilitated. Some hardliners were removed from top levels of government and replaced by younger, more liberal communists. Jozef Lenart replaced Prime Minister Viliam Široký in September 1963. The KSČ organized committees to review economic policy.\n\nIn 1965, the party approved the New Economic Model, which had been drafted under the direction of economist and theoretician Ota Šik. The program called for a second, intensive stage of economic development, emphasizing technological and managerial improvements. Central planning would be limited to overall production and investment indexes as well as price and wage guidelines. Management personnel would be involved in decision-making. Production would be market oriented and geared toward profitability. Prices would respond to supply and demand. Wage differentials would be introduced.\n\nThe KSČ \"Theses\" of December 1965 presented the party response to the call for political reform. Democratic centralism was redefined, placing a stronger emphasis on democracy. The leading role of the KSČ was reaffirmed but limited. In consequence, the National Assembly was promised increased legislative responsibility. The Slovak executive (Board of Commissioners) and legislature (Slovak National Council) were assured that they could assist the central government in program planning and assume responsibility for program implementation in Slovakia. The regional, district, and local national committees were to be permitted a degree of autonomy. The KSČ agreed to refrain from superseding the authority of economic and social organizations. Party control in cultural policy, however, was reaffirmed.\n\nJanuary 1967 was the date for full implementation of the reform program. Novotný and his supporters hesitated, introducing amendments to reinforce central control. Pressure from the reformists was stepped up. Slovaks pressed for federalization. Economists called for complete enterprise autonomy and economic responsiveness to the market mechanism. The Fourth Writers' Congress adopted a resolution calling for rehabilitation of the Czechoslovak literary tradition and the establishment of free contact with Western culture. The Novotný regime responded with repressive measures.\n\nAt the 30–31 October 1967 meeting of the KSČ Central Committee, Alexander Dubček, a Slovak reformer who had studied in the Soviet Union, challenged Novotný and was accused of nationalism. As university students in Prague demonstrated in support of the liberals, Novotný appealed to Moscow for assistance. On 8 December, Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev arrived in Prague but did not support Novotný, giving a speech to the inner circle of the Communist Party in which he stated \"I did not come to take part in the solution of your problems... ...you will surely manage to solve them on your own.\" On 5 January 1968, the Central Committee elected Dubček to replace Novotný as first secretary of the KSČ. Novotný's fall from KSČ leadership precipitated initiatives to oust Stalinists from all levels of government, from mass associations, e.g., the Revolutionary Trade Union Movement and the Czechoslovak Union Youth, and from local party organs. On 22 March 1968, Novotný resigned from the presidency and was succeeded by General Ludvík Svoboda.\n\nDubček carried the reform movement a step further in the direction of liberalism. After Novotný's fall, censorship was lifted. The media—press, radio, and television—were mobilized for reformist propaganda purposes. The movement to democratize socialism in Czechoslovakia, formerly confined largely to the party intelligentsia, acquired a new, popular dynamism in the spring of 1968.\n\nIn April the KSČ Presidium adopted the Action Programme that had been drafted by a coalition headed by Dubček and made up of reformers, moderates, centrists, and conservatives. The program proposed a \"new model of socialism,\" profoundly \"democratic\" and \"national,\" that is, adapted to Czechoslovak conditions. The National Front and the electoral system were to be democratized, and Czechoslovakia was to be federalized. Freedom of assembly and expression would be guaranteed in constitutional law. The New Economic Model was to be implemented. The Action Program also reaffirmed the Czechoslovak alliance with the Soviet Union and other socialist states. The reform movement, which rejected Stalinism as the road to communism, remained committed to communism as a goal.\n\nThe Action Program stipulated that reform must proceed under KSČ direction. In subsequent months, however, popular pressure mounted to implement reforms forthwith. Radical elements found expression: anti-Soviet polemics appeared in the press; the Social Democrats began to form a separate party; new unaffiliated political clubs were created. Party conservatives urged the implementation of repressive measures, but Dubček counselled moderation and reemphasized KSČ leadership. In May he announced that the Fourteenth Party Congress would convene in an early session on 9 September. The congress would incorporate the Action Program into the party statutes, draft a federalization law, and elect a new (presumably more liberal) Central Committee.\n\nOn 27 June, Ludvík Vaculík, a lifelong communist and a candidate member of the Central Committee, published a manifesto entitled the \"Two Thousand Words\". The manifesto expressed concern about conservative elements within the KSČ and \"foreign\" forces as well. (Warsaw Pact maneuvers were held in Czechoslovakia in late June.) It called on the \"people\" to take the initiative in implementing the reform program. Dubček, the party Presidium, the National Front, and the cabinet sharply denounced the manifesto.\n\nThe Soviet leadership was alarmed. In mid-July a Warsaw Pact conference was held without Czechoslovak participation. The Warsaw Pact nations drafted a letter to the KSČ leadership referring to the manifesto as an \"organizational and political platform of counterrevolution.\" Pact members demanded the reimposition of censorship, the banning of new political parties and clubs, and the repression of \"rightist\" forces within the party. The Warsaw Pact nations declared the defence of Czechoslovakia's socialist gains to be not only the task of Czechoslovakia but also the mutual task of all Warsaw Pact countries. The KSČ rejected the Warsaw Pact ultimatum, and Dubček requested bilateral talks with the Soviet Union.\n\nSoviet leader Brezhnev hesitated to intervene militarily in Czechoslovakia. Dubček's Action Program proposed a \"new model of socialism\"—\"democratic\" and \"national.\" Significantly, however, Dubček did not challenge Czechoslovak commitment to the Warsaw Pact. In the early spring of 1968, the Soviet leadership adopted a wait-and-see attitude. By midsummer, however, two camps had formed: advocates and opponents of military intervention. The pro-interventionist coalition viewed the situation in Czechoslovakia as \"counterrevolutionary\" and favoured the defeat of Dubček and his supporters. This coalition was headed by the Ukrainian party leader Petro Shelest and included communist bureaucrats from Belarus and from the non-Russian national republics of the western part of the Soviet Union (the Baltic republics). The coalition members feared the awakening of nationalism within their respective republics and the influence of the Ukrainian minority in Czechoslovakia on Ukrainians in the Soviet Union. Bureaucrats responsible for political stability in Soviet cities and for the ideological supervision of the intellectual community also favoured a military solution. Within the Warsaw Pact, only the German Democratic Republic (East Germany) and Poland were strongly interventionist. Walter Ulbricht and Władysław Gomułka—party leaders of East Germany and Poland, respectively—viewed liberalism as threatening to their own positions.\n\nThe Soviet Union agreed to bilateral talks with Czechoslovakia to be held in July at Cierna nad Tisou, Slovak-Soviet border. At the meeting, Dubček defended the program of the reformist wing of the KSČ while pledging commitment to the Warsaw Pact and Comecon. The KSČ leadership, however, was divided. Vigorous reformers—Josef Smrkovský, Oldřich Černík, and František Kriegel—supported Dubček. Conservatives—Vasil Biľak, Drahomír Kolder, and Oldřich Švestka—adopted an anti-reformist stance. Brezhnev decided on compromise. The KSČ delegates reaffirmed their loyalty to the Warsaw Pact and promised to curb \"antisocialist\" tendencies, prevent the revival of the Czechoslovak Social Democratic Party, and control the press more effectively. The Soviets agreed to withdraw their troops (stationed in Czechoslovakia since the June maneuvers) and permit the 9 September party congress.\n\nOn 3 August, representatives from the Soviet Union, East Germany, Poland, Hungary, Bulgaria, and Czechoslovakia met in Bratislava and signed the Bratislava Declaration. The declaration affirmed unshakable fidelity to Marxism-Leninism and proletarian internationalism and declared an implacable struggle against \"bourgeois\" ideology and all \"antisocialist\" forces. The Soviet Union expressed its intention to intervene in a Warsaw Pact country if a \"bourgeois\" system—a pluralist system of several political parties—was ever established. After the Bratislava conference, Soviet troops left Czechoslovak territory but remained along Czechoslovak borders. Dubček did not attempt to mobilize the Czechoslovak army to resist an invasion.\n\nThe KSČ party congress remained scheduled for 9 September. In the week following the Bratislava conference, it became an open secret in Prague that most of Dubček's opponents would be removed from the Central Committee. The Prague municipal party organization prepared and circulated a blacklist. The antireformist coalition could hope to stay in power only with Soviet assistance.\n\nKSČ anti-reformists, therefore, made efforts to convince the Soviets that the danger of political instability and \"counterrevolution\" did indeed exist. They used the Kaspar Report, prepared by the Central Committee's Information Department, headed by Jan Kašpar, to achieve this end. The report provided an extensive review of the general political situation in Czechoslovakia as it might relate to the forthcoming party congress. It predicted that a stable Central Committee and a firm leadership could not necessarily be expected as the outcome of the congress. The party Presidium received the report on 12 August. Two Presidium members, Kolder and Alois Indra, were instructed to evaluate the report for the 20 August meeting of the Presidium. Kolder and Indra viewed the Kašpar Report with alarm and, some observers think, communicated their conclusions to the Soviet ambassador, Stepan Chervonenko. These actions are thought to have precipitated the Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia. As the KSČ Presidium convened on 20 August, the anti-reformists planned to make a bid for power, pointing to the imminent danger of counterrevolution. Kolder and Indra presented a resolution declaring a state of emergency and calling for \"fraternal assistance.\" The resolution was never voted on, because the Warsaw Pact troops entered Czechoslovakia that same day (in the night of 20 August-21).\n\nKSČ conservatives had misinformed Moscow regarding the strength of the reform movement. The KSČ Presidium met during the night of 20–21 August; it rejected the option of armed resistance and condemned the invasion. Two-thirds of the KSČ Central Committee opposed the Soviet intervention. A KSČ party congress, convened secretly on 22 August, passed a resolution affirming its loyalty to Dubček's Action Program and denouncing the Soviet aggression. President Svoboda repeatedly resisted Soviet pressure to form a new government under Indra. The Czechoslovak population was virtually unanimous in its repudiation of the Soviet action. In compliance with Svoboda's caution against acts that might provoke violence, they avoided mass demonstrations and strikes but observed a symbolic one-hour general work stoppage on 23 August.\n\nPopular opposition was expressed in numerous spontaneous acts of nonviolent resistance, also called civil resistance. In Prague and other cities throughout the republic, Czechs and Slovaks greeted Warsaw Pact soldiers with arguments and reproaches. Every form of assistance, including the provision of food and water, was denied the invaders. Signs, placards, and graffiti drawn on walls and pavements denounced the invaders, the Soviet leaders, and suspected collaborators. Pictures of Dubček and Svoboda appeared everywhere.\n\nThe generalized resistance caused the Soviet Union to abandon its original plan to oust Dubček. Dubček, who had been arrested on the night of 20 August, was taken to Moscow for negotiations. The outcome was the Brezhnev Doctrine of limited sovereignty, which provided for the strengthening of the KSČ, strict party control of the media, and the suppression of the Czechoslovak Social Democratic Party. It was agreed that Dubček would remain in office and that a program of moderate reform would continue.\n\nOn 19 January 1969, student Jan Palach set himself on fire in Prague's Wenceslas Square as a protest against the end of the reforms of the Prague Spring following the Soviet invasion.\n\nDubček remained in office only until April 1969. Anti-Soviet demonstrations, following Czechoslovakia's victory over the Soviet team in the World Ice Hockey Championships in March, precipitated Soviet pressures for a KSČ Presidium reorganization. Gustáv Husák, (a centrist and one of the Slovak \"bourgeois nationalists\" imprisoned by the KSČ in the 1950s), was named first secretary (title changed to general secretary in 1971). Only centrists and the hardliners led by Vasil Bilak continued in the Presidium.\n\nA program of \"normalization\"—the restoration of continuity with the prereform period—was initiated. Normalization entailed thoroughgoing political repression and the return to ideological conformity\nOne of the few changes proposed by the Action Programme during the Prague Spring that was actually achieved was the federalization of the country. Although it was mostly a formality during the normalization period, Czechoslovakia had been federalized under the Constitutional Law of Federation of 27 October 1968. The newly created Federal Assembly (i.e., federal parliament), which replaced the National Assembly, was intended to work in close cooperation with the Czech National Council and the Slovak National Council (i.e., national parliaments). The Gustáv Husák regime amended the law in January 1971 so that, while federalism was retained in form, central authority was effectively restored.\nIn the meantime, a Slovak parliament and government had been created, including all ministries except for defence and foreign affairs. Besides, a so-called no-majorisation principle requiring consensus between the Czech and Slovak republics at the Federal Assembly in Prague was enacted. But due to the fact that neither governments nor parliaments made political decisions under the regime, it remained just a formality. Decisions were taken \"by the politburo of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia. There was one communist party and it was situated in Prague\". Deciding about Slovak affairs in Slovakia was not allowed to happen.\n\nAt the official Fourteenth Party Congress in May 1971, party chief Husák announced the 1968 Fourteenth Party Congress had been abrogated, that \"normalization\" had been \"completed\" and that all the party needed to do was consolidate its gains. Husák's policy was to maintain a rigid status quo; for the next fifteen years key personnel of the party and government remained the same. In 1975, Husák added the position of president to his post as party chief. He and other party leaders faced the task of rebuilding general party membership after the purges of 1969-71. By 1983, membership had returned to 1.6 million, about the same as in 1960.\n\nIn preserving the status quo, the Husák regime required conformity and obedience in all aspects of life. Czech and Slovak culture suffered greatly from the limitations on independent thought, as did the humanities, social sciences, and ultimately even natural sciences. Art had to adhere to a rigid formula of socialist realism. Soviet examples were held up for emulation. During the 1970s and 1980s, many of Czechoslovakia's most creative individuals were silenced, imprisoned, or sent into exile. Some found expression for their art through samizdat. Those artists, poets, and writers who were officially sanctioned were, for the most part, undistinguished. The award of the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1984 to Jaroslav Seifert—a poet identified with reformism and not favored by the Husák regime—was a bright spot in an otherwise bleak cultural scene.\n\nIn addition to applying repression, Husák also tried to obtain acquiescence to his rule by providing an improved standard of living. He returned Czechoslovakia to an orthodox command economy with a heavy emphasis on central planning and continued to extend industrialization. For a while the policy seemed successful because, despite the lack of investment in new technologies, there was an increase in industrial output. The government encouraged consumerism and materialism and took a tolerant attitude toward a slack work ethic and a growing black market second economy:\n\nAnother feature of Husák's rule was a continued dependence on the Soviet Union. As of the mid-1980s, Husák had not yet achieved a balance between what could be perceived as Czechoslovak national interest and Soviet dictate. In foreign policy, Czechoslovakia parroted every utterance of the Soviet position. Frequent contacts between the Soviet and Czechoslovak communist parties and governments made certain that the Soviet position on any issue was both understood and followed. The Soviets continued to exert control over Czechoslovak internal affairs, including oversight over the police and security apparatus. Five Soviet ground divisions and two air divisions had become a permanent fixture, while the Czechoslovak military was further integrated into the Warsaw Pact. In the 1980s, approximately 50% of Czechoslovakia's foreign trade was with the Soviet Union, and almost 80% was with communist countries. There were constant exhortations about further cooperation and integration between the Soviet Union and Czechoslovakia in industry, science, technology, consumer goods, and agriculture. Deriving its legitimacy from Moscow, the Husák regime remained a slavish imitator of political, cultural, and economic trends emanating from Moscow.\n\nThrough the 1970s and 1980s, the government's emphasis on obedience, conformity, and the preservation of the status quo was challenged by individuals and organized groups aspiring to independent thinking and activity. Although only a few such activities could be deemed political by Western standards, the state viewed any independent action, no matter how innocuous, as a defiance of the party's control over all aspects of Czechoslovak life. The government's response to such activity was harassment, persecution, and, in some instances, imprisonment.\n\nIn the context of international detente, Czechoslovakia had signed the United Nations Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights and the Covenant on Civil and Political Rights in 1968. In 1975 these were ratified by the Federal Assembly, which, according to the Constitution of 1960, is the highest legislative organization. The Helsinki Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe's \"Final Act\" (also known as the Helsinki Accords), signed by Czechoslovakia in 1975, also included guarantees of human rights.\n\nThe first organized opposition emerged under the umbrella of Charter 77. On 6 January 1977, a manifesto called Charter 77 appeared in West German newspapers. The document was immediately translated and reprinted throughout the world. The original manifesto reportedly was signed by 243 people; among them were artists, former public officials, and other prominent figures, such as Zdeněk Mlynář, secretary of the KSČ Central Committee in 1968; Václav Slavík, a Central Committee member in 1968; and Ludvík Vaculík, author of \"Two Thousand Words.\" Charter 77 defined itself as \"a loose, informal, and open community of people\" concerned with the protection of civil and human rights. It denied oppositional intent and based its defense of rights on legally binding international documents signed by the Czechoslovak government and on guarantees of civil rights contained in the Czechoslovak Constitution. The Charter 77 group declared its objectives to be the following: to draw attention to individual cases of human rights infringements; to suggest remedies; to make general proposals to strengthen rights and freedoms and the mechanisms designed to protect them; and to act as intermediary in situations of conflict. The Charter had over 800 signatures by the end of 1977, including workers and youth; by 1985 nearly 1,200 Czechoslovaks had signed the Charter. The Husák regime, which claimed that all rights derive from the state and that international covenants are subject to the internal jurisdiction of the state, responded with fury to the Charter. The text was never published in the official media. Signatories were arrested and interrogated; dismissal from employment often followed. The Czechoslovak press launched vicious attacks against the Charter. The public was mobilized to sign either individual condemnations or various forms of \"anti-Charters.\"\n\nClosely associated with Charter 77, the Committee for the Defense of the Unjustly Persecuted (Výbor na obranu nespravedlivě stíhaných—VONS) was formed in 1978 with the specific goal of documenting individual cases of government persecution and human rights violations. Between 1978 and 1984, VONS issued 409 communiques concerning individuals prosecuted or harassed.\n\nOn a larger scale, independent activity was expressed through underground writing and publishing. Because of the decentralized nature of underground writing, it is difficult to estimate its extent or impact. Some observers state that hundreds of books, journals, essays, and short stories were published and distributed. In the mid-1980s, several samizdat publishing houses were in operation. The best known was Edice Petlice (Padlock Editions), which had published more than 250 volumes. There were a number of clandestine religious publishing houses that published journals in photocopy or printed form. The production and distribution of underground literature was difficult. In most cases, manuscripts had to be typed and retyped without the aid of modern publishing equipment. Publication and distribution were also dangerous. Mere possession of samizdat materials could be the basis for harassment, loss of employment, and arrest and imprisonment.\n\nIndependent activity also extended to music. The state was particularly concerned about the impact of Western popular music on Czechoslovak youth. The persecution of rock musicians and their fans led a number of musicians to sign Charter 77. In the forefront of the struggle for independent music was the Jazz Section of the Union of Musicians. Initially organized to promote jazz, in the late 1970s it became a protector of various kinds of nonconformist music. The widely popular Jazz Section had a membership of approximately 7,000 and received no official funds. It published music and promoted concerts and festivals. The government condemned the Jazz Section for spreading \"unacceptable views\" among the youth and moved against its leadership. In March 1985, the Jazz Section was dissolved under a 1968 statute banning \"counterrevolutionary activities.\" The Jazz Section continued to operate, however, and in 1986 the government arrested the members of its steering committee.\n\nBecause religion offered possibilities for thought and activities independent of the state, it too was severely restricted and controlled. Clergymen were required to be licensed. In attempting to manipulate the number and kind of clergy, the state even sponsored a pro-government organization of Catholic priests, the Association of Catholic Clergy Pacem in Terris. Nevertheless, there was religious opposition, including a lively Catholic samizdat. In the 1980s, František Cardinal Tomášek, the Czech primate, adopted a more independent stand. In 1984 he invited the Pope to come to Czechoslovakia for the 1,100th anniversary of the death of Saint Methodius, the missionary to the Slavs. The pope accepted, but the trip was blocked by the government. The cardinal's invitation and the pope's acceptance were widely circulated in samizdat. A petition requesting the government to permit the papal visit had 17,000 signatories. The Catholic Church did have a massive commemoration of the 1,100th anniversary in 1985. At Velehrad (allegedly the site of Methodius's tomb) more than 150,000 pilgrims attended a commemorative mass, and another 100,000 came to a ceremony at Levoca (in eastern Slovakia).\n\nUnlike in Poland, dissent, opposition to the government, and independent activity were limited in Czechoslovakia to a fairly small segment of the populace. Even the dissenters saw scant prospect for fundamental reforms. In this sense, the Husák regime was successful in preserving the status quo in \"normalized\" Czechoslovakia.\n\nThe selection of Mikhail Gorbachev as general secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union on 11 March 1985, presented the Husák regime with a new and unexpected challenge to the status quo. Soon after assuming office, Gorbachev began a policy of \"perestroika\" (\"restructuring\") the Soviet economy and advocated \"glasnost\" (\"openness\") in the discussion of economic, social, and, to some extent, political questions. Up to this time, the Husák regime had dutifully adopted the programs and slogans that had emanated from Moscow. But, for a government wholly dedicated to the preservation of the status quo, subjects such as \"openness,\" economic \"restructuring,\" and \"reform\" had been taboo.\n\nThe roughly 6% of the population who were neither Czech nor Slovak in the 1980s have had an uneven history in the postwar era. The highly centralized rule of the KSČ undermined the political leverage that the First Republic's multiparty politics had permitted to ethnic minorities. Beyond this, however, the sheer decrease in the German and Ukrainian populations of Czechoslovakia would have limited their influence in any event.\n\nThe events of the late 1960s brought calls for reform from ethnic minorities. The government's response was Constitutional Act No. 144 (October 1968), which defined the status of ethnic groups in Czechoslovakia and acknowledged the full political and cultural rights of legally recognized minorities. Minorities were granted the right, with state approval, to their own cultural organizations. The emphasis has been on cultural activities; minority organizations have had no right to represent their members in political affairs.\n\nIn the 1980s, Hungarians were the largest enumerated minority ethnic group. In 1989 approximately 560,000 Hungarians (concentrated in southern Slovakia) made up 11% of Slovakia's population. Despite significant anti-Hungarian sentiment in Slovakia, the postwar exchange of Slovaks in Hungary for Hungarians in Slovakia met with only limited success; the proportion of Hungarians in the population has changed little since 1930 (see History).\n\nAlthough Hungarians were a distinct minority of the total population, they were highly visible in the border regions of Slovakia. There, Hungarians constituted nearly half the population of some districts. Furthermore, 20% lived in exclusively Hungarian settlements. Given Hungary's long domination of Slovakia, Hungarian-Slovak relations have not been easy; the two groups are separated by substantial linguistic and cultural differences. In 1968 some Hungarians in Slovakia called for reincorporation into Hungary. This was apparently a minority view; Hungarian Warsaw Pact troops entering Czechoslovakia in 1968 encountered as much hostility from Hungarians in Slovakia as they did from the rest of the population.\n\nIt is interesting to compare the situation of the 560,000 Hungarians in Czechoslovakia with that of 110,000 Slovaks in Hungary in the 1970s and 1980s. In 1988, the Hungarians in Czechoslovakia had 386 kindergartens, 131 basic schools, 96 secondary schools, two theatres, one publishing institution and twenty-four print media producers. Six Slovak publishing institutions were also publishing Hungarian literature. The Slovaks in Hungary, however, had no kindergartens, no schools, no theatres and one print media producer. One Hungarian publishing institution was also publishing Slovak literature. This situation may have been a result of the 1960 Constitution of Czechoslovakia which ensured special protection for Hungarian, Ukrainian, and Polish minority groups in Czechoslovakia. This legislation was often criticized by Slovaks who, at that time, were not afforded similar protection within their own country.\n\nWith the expulsion of the Germans in 1945, Czechoslovakia lost over one-fifth of its population. Some 165,000 Germans escaped deportation and remained scattered along the country's western border in the former Sudetenland. Through the mid-1970s, Germans represented a declining proportion of the population; younger Germans increasingly were assimilated into Czech society or emigrated to the West. Even those Germans who were not expelled after World War II were not permitted to hold Czechoslovak citizenship until 1953.\n\nIn 1968-69, Germans demanded more German-language publications and mandatory German language instruction in areas having a substantial German minority. The 1968 Constitutional Act No. 144 recognized the Germans' legal status as an ethnic minority for the first time since World War II.\n\nPoles (approximately 71,000 in 1984) were concentrated in the Cieszyn Silesia on the northeastern border of the Czech Socialist Republic. In addition to a large community of resident Poles, a substantial number commuted across the border from Poland to work or to take advantage of the relative abundance of Czechoslovak consumer goods. Official policies toward the Poles (resident or not) have attempted to limit their influence both in and out of the workplace. In 1969, for example, a Czech journal reported that a primarily Polish-speaking district in the Ostrava area had been gerrymandered to create two districts, each with a Czech majority.\n\nCzechoslovak officialdom considered Polish influence in the workplace an insidious danger. The \"seepage\" from more liberal Polish governments had concerned Czechoslovak communists since the 1950s, when Poles led the way in resisting increased work demands. The 1980-81 unrest in Poland exacerbated the situation. There were reports of strikes among the workers in the Ostrava area in late 1980.\n\nBefore World War II, Romani people in Czechoslovakia were considered Czechoslovak citizens of Romani nationality. After the war, since they did not possess the properties of a nationality according to communist criteria, they were regarded by the communist government as merely a special ethnic group. Based on this, the state approached the matter not as a question of nationality but as a social and political question.\n\nEastern Slovakia had a sizable Roma minority. About 66% of the country's Roma lived in Slovakia in the 1980s, where they constituted about 4% of the population. Estimates of their exact numbers vary, but observers agree that their postwar birthrate has been phenomenal. In the early 1970s, there were approximately 200,000 to 300,000 Roma in the country. In 1980 estimates ranged from 250,000 to 400,000.\n\nRoma intelligentsia agitated unsuccessfully for inclusion of the Romani People in the 1968 Constitutional Act No. 144, and they remained the largest unrecognized minority in Czechoslovakia. Policy makers have found them a conundrum. The Roma population combines continued high rates of crime and illiteracy with a cultural system that places low value on regular employment. According to Czechoslovak Life, in 1986, \"the customs and thinking of the Roma population are somewhat different.\" A 1979 article in Bratislava's \"Pravda\" asserted that the crime rate among the Romani population was four times the national average. The author went on to call for \"the incorporation of all Gypsy citizens of productive age to [sic] the working process\" and to decry the number of Roma \"who constantly refuse to work\". A large number of Roma were involved in the black market.\n\nOfficial policy has vacillated between forced assimilation and enforced isolation in carefully controlled settlements. The nomadic wandering integral to Roma culture has been illegal since 1958. Laws passed in 1965 and 1969 provided for \"dispersion\" of the Romani people, i.e., transferring them from areas where they were concentrated to other areas. In the late 1970s and early 1980s, assimilationist policies held clear sway. There were efforts to increase the participation of Roma children in preschool, kindergarten, secondary school, apprenticeship programs, and summer recreational and educational camps. There were also concerted government attempts to integrate Roma into the national labor force; in the early 1980s, some 90% of adult Roma males below retirement age were employed. In 1979 about 50% of working-age Roma women were employed; by 1981 this figure had risen to 74%.\n\nThe Roma birthrate was reportedly two and one-half to three times the national average; in the mid-1980s, it was 2.6% per year as opposed to 0.7% per year for the population as a whole.\n\nCzechoslovakia lost most of its Ukrainian and Rusyn (Ruthenian) population when Carpatho-Ukraine was ceded to the Soviet Union after World War II. In 1983 the remaining 48,000 or so Ukrainians and Ruthenians were clustered in north eastern Slovakia. They remained overwhelmingly agricultural; often they were private farmers scattered on small, impoverished holdings in mountainous terrain. They were generally Uniates and suffered in the 1950s and 1960s from the government's repression of that group in favor of the Eastern Orthodox Church.\n\nA very small fraction of Czechoslovakia's pre–World War II Jewish community remained in the 1980s. Estimates of both the prewar and the postwar Jewish population are imprecise. Calculations based on either religious preference or the number of Yiddish speakers ignored the large numbers of assimilated Jews in Bohemia and Slovakia. Most estimates put the pre–World War II population in the neighborhood of 250,000. In 1975 Malcolm Browne stated that there were some 5,000 practicing Jews remaining in Czechoslovakia, including about 1,200 in Prague, which once had a large, vibrant Jewish community dating back to the Middle Ages.\n\nSome anti-Jewish sentiment still existed in the 1980s. The government's vehemently anti-Israeli stance, coupled with a persistent failure to distinguish between Israelis and Jews, gave anti-Semitic attitudes continued prominence. Official denunciations of dissidents having purportedly Jewish names added a distinctly anti-Semitic flavor. One Charter 77 signer was condemned as \"an international adventurer\" and another, more pointedly, as \"a foreigner without fatherland who was never integrated into the Czech community\"—notorious euphemisms long used in anti-Jewish rhetoric. Officials alleged that the signers were under orders from \"anticommunist and Zionist centers.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50841743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50841743", "title": "Jordi Guixé i Coromines", "text": "Jordi Guixé i Coromines\n\nJordi Guixé i Coromines (Barcelona, 1970) is a historian, founder director of the European Observatory on Memories (EUROM) of the University of Barcelona Solidarity's Foundation and an associate professor. With a Ph.D. in Contemporary History from both the University of Barcelona and the (Mención Prêt d'Honneur du Ministère de la Culture), he is currently a member of several research groups, such as the Institut des Sciences Politique du Socials of the Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique (CNRS), Centre d'Estudis de les Èpoques Franquista i Democràtica of the Universitat Autónoma de Barcelona (CEFID-UAB), the Group of Research on Memory and Society at the Universitat de Barcelona and the Centre de Recherche sur les Sociétés et Environments en Méditerranée (CRESEM) of the Université de Perpignan Via Domitia (UPVD). In 2016 he was elected vicechair of the Board of the International Committee of Memorial Museums in Remembrance of the Victims of Public Crimes (IC-MEMO), one of the 31 committees of the International Council of Museums (ICOM). From 2007 to 2010, J. Guixé participated in the creation of the Memorial Democràtic de Catalunya and was responsible of the heritage area as well as international relations. Among other projects, he coordinated the Census of Francoist Symbols in Catalonia.\n\nSpecialized in public policies of memory, Jordi Guixé is best known for his researches on Francisco Franco's repression over political exile of the Spanish Civil War, World War II and the Cold War, having organized and contributed to many publications on the topic. His work \"Diplomacia y represión: la persecución hispano-francesa del exilio republicano, 1937-1951\" was awarded the essay prize \"España y sus exilios\". In 2016 he presented \"Past and Power. Public Policies on Memory. Debates, from Global to Local\". The book is a collection of articles written by specialists in multiple disciplines that discuss key challenges of the conflict of memories in Europe and Latin America.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9933547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9933547", "title": "Kan Kimura", "text": "Kan Kimura\n\nKimura was born in 1966 in Higashiosaka, Osaka Prefecture, Japan. He studied at Kyoto University and received his L.L.D. in 2001 for his first book, \"Chosen/Kankoku Nashonarizumu to 'Shokoku-Ishiki\"' (\"Korean Nationalism as a Small Nation\").\n\nHe became a Research Associate at Faculty of Law and Literature of Ehime University in 1993, and taught between 1994 and 1997 as a Lecturer at the same university.\n\nIn 1997 he moved to the Graduate School of International Cooperation Studies, Kobe University as an associate professor, and became a full professor in April 2005. He was appointed to the Directer of Center for Asian Academic Collaboration at Kobe University in 2017 too. \n\nHe was also a Research Fellow of Korea Foundation in 1996-1997, a visiting scholar at Fairbank Center for East Asian Research at Harvard University in 1998-1999, a visiting scholar at Asiatic Research Center of Korea University in 2001, a visiting scholar at Sejong Institute in 2006, and a visiting fellow at Faculty of Asian Studies of the Australian National University in 2008. He was also a visiting scholar of The Henry M. Jackson School of International Studies at University of Washington in Seattle from 2010 to 2011, a visiting professor at Graduate School of International Studies, Korea University in 2014.\n\nAt academic societies, he is a director of the Association for Contemporary Korean Studies in Japan, and Japanese Association of Modern East Asian Studies. He was also a director of the Japanese Association for Comparative Politics, research collaborator of the sub-committee on the modern history at the First Japan-Korea Collaborative History Research Committee , which was established by the agreement between Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi and South Korean President Kim Dae-jung in 2001. He became a full committee member of the Second Japan-Korea Collaborative History Research Committee, which was established by another agreement of both governments in 2005.\n\nIn local societies, he worked as a director of Hyogo International Center from 2006 to 2007, which is under Hyogo Prefectural Government, and successively held various posts of the center from 2001 to 2007. He was also appointed to the president of \"the Pan-Pacific Forum\", a NPO in Kobe for international cooperations, established in 1980s.\n\nHe studied comparative politics and area studies especially of East Asia. His principal interests are in relationships between modernization and ideology. His major research field is Korean Peninsula.\n\nHis first book \"Chosen/Kankoku Nashonarizumu to 'Shokoku-Ishiki\" (or \"Korean Nationalism as a Small Nation\") was given the Special Prize of the 13th Asian and Pacific Prize by the Asia Society and the Mainichi Shimbun in 2001, and his second book \"Kankoku ni okeru 'Kenishugiteki' Taisei no Seiritsu\" (or \"Authoritarianization in South Korea\") was also given the 25th Suntory Academic Prize in 2003 by the Suntory Foundation.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57946687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57946687", "title": "Königinstraße", "text": "Königinstraße\n\nThe Königinstraße is a street in Munich. It runs west of the \"Englischer Garten\" from the Von-der-Tann-Straße in the district of Maxvorstadt, to the north and to the Maria-Josepha-Straße and Mandlstraße in the Ensemble Alt-Schwabing.\n\nAt Königinstraße 5, is the American Consulate General. Due to the security precautions, entry into the Königinstraße from the Von-der-Tann-Straße is no longer possible for vehicles.\n\nOn the estate of today's house number 28, was the \"Zoologischer Garten Benedikt\" (private zoological garden) from 1862, then still known as Wiesenstraße. In the former Wiesenstraße 6 (now also Königinstraße) was the homeopathic hospital of Joseph Buchner, homeopathic family doctor at the court of King Maximilian II of Bavaria and honorary professor at the Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich, for the purpose of \"free treatment of poor servants, family members and workers\".\n\nFurther north, is the ancestral site of the veterinary faculty (still listed with the address Veterinärstraße 13). Already in Schwabing, with the house number 34, lies the \"Universitäts Reitschule München\" (university riding school Munich). The headquarters of BayBG Bayerische Beteiligungsgesellschaft is located in Königinstraße 23 in a richly structured historically listed Neo-Baroque building.\n\nWith the historically listed main building containing the Schmuckhof of the Munich Re on Königinstraße 107 and the, also historically listed, headquarters of Allianz SE at number 28, Königinstraße is the only German street in which two DAX companies have their headquarters. Other renowned financial service providers in the street are the LfA Förderbank Bayern and the Bayerische Beteiligungsgesellschaft (BayBG)\n\nThe Nanosystems Initiative Munich is also located in the Königinstraße, the building emerged from an implementation competition with an urban planning and landscape planning component. The new building was controversial, since the around 1900 Veterinary Clinic of the Ludwig-Maximilians-University, including an 1902 -built Art Nouveau building with Jurassic marble staircases with wrought iron Art Nouveau railings, had to be demolished. The building was classified as \"worthy of a memorial\" in the assessment of the state building authority of Munich but was not set by the Bavarian State Office for Monument Protection on the list of buildings worth protecting.\n\nAltogether, 21 buildings are listed on the list of historical monuments in Maxvorstadt and Schwabing on the 1.45 km long road. At the corner of Königinstraße - Mary Josepha Straße – Mandlstraße, begins the protected building ensemble Altschwabing. At Königinstraße 85, is an Art Nouveau building built in 1906 by Martin Dülfer, which is protected together with the buildings at Ohmstraße 13, 15 and 17 as \"Ensemble Ohmstraße\".\n\nIn 2016, the Königinstraße became a Pilot experiment for a new joint project between BMW and the city of Munich, where street lamps were used as charging stations for electric cars.\n"}
{"id": "23633866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23633866", "title": "Linda K. Kerber", "text": "Linda K. Kerber\n\nLinda Kaufman Kerber (born January 23, 1940 in Brooklyn, New York) is an American feminist intellectual historian and educator who specializes in the history and development of the democratic mind in America, and the intellectual history of women in America.\n\nThe daughter of Harry Hagman and Dorothy Haber Kaufman, Kerber received a B.A. from Barnard College (1960), an M.A. from New York University (1961), and her Ph.D. from Columbia University (1968). She married her high school sweetheart Richard Kerber, a medical student.\n\nKerber has been at the University of Iowa since 1971, and is currently the May Brodbeck Professor in Liberal Arts & Sciences, and also lecturer in the College of Law. She served as the president of the American Studies Association in 1988, the Organization of American Historians in 1996–97, and the American Historical Association in 2006. She was the Harold Vyvyan Harmsworth Visiting Professor of American History at Oxford University in 2006-2007, delivering the Harold Vyvyan Harmsworth Memorial Lecture at Oxford on November 16, 2006.\n\nShe has received fellowships from, among others, the National Endowment for the Humanities three times, the National Humanities Center, the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Fellowship, and the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study. She is an elected member of the American Philosophical Society, a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciencesand a Fellow of the Rothermere American Institute, University of Oxford. Kerber serves on the advisory board of the feminist academic journal \"Signs\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7844974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7844974", "title": "List of Berlin Wall segments", "text": "List of Berlin Wall segments\n\nMany segments of the Berlin Wall have been given to various institutions since its fall on November 9, 1989. Segments are occasionally moved, so locations shown may not be current in all cases.\n\nUnveiled in 2013 in the Blloku district, as part of a memorial to victims of Albania's Communist Regime.\n\nTwo segments of the wall are on display outside the EU Parliament in Brussels, Belgium.\n\nTwo segments of the wall are on display in front of the NATO Headquarters building inaugurated in 2017 in Brussels, Belgium.\nA segment of the wall is on display outside the building. It originally stood on Potsdamer Platz.\nOne section is part of a memorial in the park in front of the National Palace of Culture in the center of Sofia.\n\nSince 2011 a section of the wall has been on display in the Cold War Museum Langelandsfort on the island of Langeland (Great Belt). The segment was a gift from the City of Berlin and was originally located at the Potsdamer Platz (Berlin Mitte).\n\nA segment of the wall was installed outside the Museum of Occupations in November 2014. The segment was a gift to Estonia from the Senate of Berlin, and originally formed part of the wall along Potsdamer Platz.\n\nA segment of the wall is on display inside contemporary theatre in Angers, France. It will take a central part in the 2011 edition of \"Les Accroche-coeurs\" festival.\n\nA segment of the wall is on display inside the Mémorial pour la Paix in Caen, France.\n\nA segment of the wall can be found next to one of the office buildings.\n\nA segment of the wall was installed for the 20th Anniversary Celebrations in the plaza of the Porte de Versailles metro station.\n\nA segment of the wall is on display outside the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, France.\n\nA section of four slabs is on display with the external exhibits of the Allied Museum along with a border guard tower and the Checkpoint Charlie guard house.\n\nA segment of the Berlin Wall was installed in the courtyard of the U.S. Embassy Berlin on 13 February 2008, \"to serve as a reminder of the past and a symbol of hope for the future\".\n\nThree segments of the Berlin Wall are on permanent display on the Deutsches Eck area as a memorial for the division of Germany.\n\n\nA segment of the wall can be seen next to the Mauermuseum, 40m south of Checkpoint Charlie on the eastern side of Friedrichstrasse\n\n\nA growing collection of painted sections of the wall are on permanent display in Stralauer Allee 3 in Berlin.\n\nOn the 20th anniversary of the fall of the Wall in November 2009, two wall segments were set up in front the John F. Kennedy high school building. The two segments were cemented back-to-back, whereby the respective short foot extensions of the bases were cut off. The \"West\" side is painted with colorful graffiti whereas the \"East\" side is colored historical plain white.\n\nA segment of the wall is situated near the Übersee Museum Bremen, in front of the Bremen Hauptbahnhof\n\nA segment of the wall is in the Joint Headquarters (JHQ) compound just inside the front gate but is obscured by a guard hut from the road.\n\nA segment of the wall can be found at Harringholzstr. 37, Hamm.\n\nA segment of the wall is on Patch Barracks in front of European Command Headquarters.\n\nA segment of the wall is on Kelley Barracks just past the old entrance in front of the Kelley club.\n\nA segment of the wall is in front of the Passenger Terminal on base.\n\nA segment of the wall is on display in outside collection at the Technik Museum Speyer.\n\nTwo segments of the wall stand near the entrance of the amusement park Europa-Park in theme area Germany.\n\nA section of two slabs is placed next to the Weimar Atrium shopping Center.\n\nA segment of the wall is placed in front of the Landeshaus, the seat of the Landtag of Schleswig-Holstein.\n\nA segment of the wall is in the garden of the Willy Brandt House in Lübeck\n\nThe piece of Berlin wall, which is inside the garden of Goethe Institut in Thessaloniki today, was formerly located in a square of the citadel of Lagadas, given as a gift by city of Steglitz-Zehlendorf (the sixth borough of Berlin), within the framework of becoming twin cities in 2012.\n\nTwo sections of the Berlin Wall were originally placed on Krisztina Blvd, in the Tabán district of Budapest, Hungary. These were later moved, after someone painted them completely red, to the garden of the Maltese Charity Service in Budapest, where they still stand.\n\nAn original section of the Berlin Wall was erected in front of Budapest's House of Terror Museum on Thursday, November 11, 2010, in the presence of Hungarian and German politicians. The ceremony marked the 21st anniversary of the fall of the wall.\n\nA segment of the Berlin Wall has been placed in Kronvalds park in Riga, Latvia; in front of the former Communist Party Central Committee building.\n\nA fragment stands at Schengen, Luxembourg, some 100 m from the place where the Schengen Agreement was signed in 1985.\n\nReykjavík\na small part of the wall was gifted to the City of Reykjavík from Neu West Berlin Art Gallery in Berlin on October 3, 2015, the Day of German Unity, is the national day of Germany, which this year marked the 25th anniversary of German unification in 1990.\n\nOn Valentine's Day 2008, ten segments of the Berlin Wall were delivered to the town of Spilamberto.\nThe fragments were sent by one of the town's citizens working abroad. 3 segments are in public display in the garden of the Rocca Rangoni.\nEach segment is 3.6 meters high, 1.2 meters wide and weighs about 3 tons.\nBy displaying the pieces the town of Spilamberto hopes to affirm its self-proclaimed identity as a town of diversity.\n\nTrondheim\n\nDisplayed with the word 'SALE' on four pieces, it is Located beside Solsiden Mall and Portalen in Trondheim.\n\nA complete section is displayed at the entrance to Roads to Freedom exhibition at the Solidarity Museum, adjacent to a section of the wall Lech Walesa climbed to lead the shipyard workers campaign.\n\nAt the entrance of the Sanctuary of Our Lady of Fátima, in Cova da Iria, on the south side of the Rectory, one may visit a monument of the Berlin Wall, consisting of a concrete segment that was part of it. This segment was offered by means of Virgilio Casimiro Ferreira, a Portuguese immigrant to Germany and is here placed as a grateful memorial of God's intervention for the fall of Communism as promised at Fátima. The segment weighs 2,600 kilos (5,732 lbs.) and measures 3.60 meters (11 ft. 9 in.) high by 1.20 meters (3 ft. in.) wide. The present monument was designed by the architect J. Carlos Loureiro and was inaugurated on the 13th August 1994.\n\nIn 1990 the fragment of the wall was presented by Berlin museum \"Checkpoint-Charlie\" to Russian \"Saharov Museum and Public centre\". This fragment is decorated by artists (just like other parts of the wall) and it rises above at the lawn near the Museum building (address: Moscow, Zemljanoj val, 57/6).\n\nThree sections of the Berlin Wall are placed within the \"Parque de Berlín\" \"(Berlin Park)\", in the district of Chamartín in Madrid, Spain; they are located in the center of a fountain/pond, in the north-eastern corner of the park. As stated in an accompanying plaque they are a present from the City of Berlin to the City of Madrid and were inaugurated on November 9, 1990 (first anniversary of the fall).\n\nIn the \"Parque Europa\" \"(Europe's Park)\" where several European monuments are replicated, there is a true section of the Berlin Wall.\n\nIn theme park Isla Mágica just outside the city center stands a section of the Wall.\n\nAlong the Astrid Lindgren Allé, outside Trelleborg Museum/library.\n\nA segment of the wall is on display outside the German embassy building in Kiev, Ukraine\n\nA small piece is located in the barracks.\n\nA large piece of the Berlin wall (believed to be one of the largest in the UK after the Imperial war museum London) is on display at the Cornwall Regimental Museum in Bodmin.\n\nA segment of the Berlin Wall stands in the Checkpoint Charlie exhibit at the Royal Air Force museum in Cosford, Shropshire.\nA segment of the Berlin Wall forms part of a large monumental plaque, next to the memorial to Ronald Reagan in Grosvenor Square in Mayfair, London.\n\nA segment of the Berlin Wall stands in the American Air Museum Hangar at the Imperial War Museum in Duxford, Cambridgeshire.\n\nThree sections were displayed outside of the museum, in 2011 the sections were moved inside and now take centre stage in the BAOR section.\n\n\nA segment of the wall stands in the Geraldine Mary Harmsworth Park in the London borough of Southwark, just outside the main entrance of the Imperial War Museum. Another segment is on display inside the museum.\n\nThree sections are on display to the side of the museum behind the front railings with an additional, smaller piece inside the museum.\n\nA section stands near the sports hall.\n\nA small part of one of the wall's slabs is on display at Imperial War Museum North.\nA major display dealing with the British role in the Four Power control of Berlin is centred upon a dramatised section of the wall.\n\nThe piece of Berlin wall, which is inside the Vatican Gardens today, is a gift from the Italian Marco Piccininni to the Vatican in 1994. Mr. Piccininni acquired this piece of wall in an auction of wall segments in Monte Carlo 1990. The wall segments show those part of Sanct-Michaels-church from Berlin as a painting, which were hidden through the wall. The segments were originally part of the wall at Waldemarstreet, located on Waldemarbridge. The illusionary painting (\"Mauerdurchblick\") on the segments was made 1986 by Yadegar Asisi, initiated by the architect Bernhard Strecker. Hints on these wall segments in Vatican Gardens were also given by Paul Hofmann in 1997.\n\nEight 4 meter tall pieces of the wall, measuring ten meters in length, with the logo of the Toronto punk band Bunchofuckingoofs were put up for auction at Sotheby's in 2007 after an exhibition in Basel, Switzerland and then New York City. Their location at present is unknown.\n\nOne section is at Seven Springs Resort in Pennsylvania. Another section is in the sculpture garden at Kentuck Knob (Frank Lloyd Wright house) in Pennsylvania.\n\nA piece of the Berlin Wall is displayed in St George's Mall.\n\nA section of the Berlin Wall has been placed in front of the clubhouse of the Harmonie German Club in the suburb of Narrabundah in the Australian capital, Canberra.\n\nA segment of the wall was put on display 23 May 2010 in the Bengal Gallery of Fine Arts, Dhanmondi, Dhaka\n\nFour sections of the wall was inaugurated on 3 October 2017 in the Kalijodo Park, Jakarta during a commemoration of German Unity Day.\n\nEin Hod Artists' Village, Israel. At the Dada Museum, village center.\n\nThe fragment sent to the Philippines, called \"Mauerteil,\" is the 22nd of the wall's 40 sections given on October 8, 2015, in Manila. It is currently housed at the Museum of the Filipino People building at the National Museum of the Philippines compound. It was given by the German state commemorating the 25th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall and the Philippines' influence to Germany during the People Power Revolution in 1986.\n\nA segment of the Berlin Wall was on display at the Bedok Reservoir Park, but has been removed and replaced by new artwork. The art on the Berlin Wall segment was not graffiti but the work of an artist depicting two different types of rulers.\n\nThen in October 2016, two panels of the Berlin Wall were unveiled at National University of Singapore (NUS). The panels are a gift to Singapore's Ministry of Foreign Affairs to mark 50 years of diplomatic relations between Germany and Singapore. They are on loan to NUS through the Foreign Ministry for at least five years and are on display at a garden behind the Tembusu College at NUS University Town.\n\nThree sections of the wall are displayed along the recently restored Cheonggyecheon (청계천) stream in central Seoul and were presented in conjunction with the restoration project. The sections are adjacent to the Samilgyo (삼일교) bridge across the stream.\n\nA segment of the Berlin Wall was unveiled in the garden of the Taiwan Foundation for Democracy in Taipei, Da'an District (大安區) during a special ceremony to mark the 20th anniversary of the Fall of the Berlin Wall in 2009. The segment was donated to Taiwan the Taiwan Foundation for Democracy by the German Oberhavel district.\n\nA segment of the wall was placed on November 9, 2005 beside an entrance of Global Technology Assessment Center building of TÜV Rheinland Japan Ltd. in Tuzuki, Yokohama, Japan. Thierry Noir was invited to the unveiling ceremony who re-painted the wall art before the ceremony.\n\nThe highest count of Berlin Wall segments outside Germany can be found at the entrance hall of Editorial Perfil in Buenos Aires, Argentina. Editorial Perfil, one of the largest publishing houses in Argentina, claims parts of the Wall were obtained in exchange for funds to build a school in Germany.\n\nA piece of the Berlin Wall is on display at the World Peace Pavilion in the Halifax Regional Municipality on the Dartmouth waterfront. It is encased in a display case, along with other items of importance from around the world.\n\nThere is a large piece situated on Falkland St across from the Old Lunenburg Foundry\n\nSix large pieces of the Berlin Wall are in the possession of the Town of Truro, currently on display at Dalhousie's Agricultural Campus in Bible Hill. There are plans to move them to the nearby Diefenbunker museum in Debert in the near future.\n\nA section of the Berlin Wall is on permanent display on the grounds of the Mennonite Heritage Village in Steinbach, Manitoba.\n\nA section of the Berlin Wall is on permanent display in the Canadian War Museum.\n\n\nA segment of the Berlin Wall has been given by the city of Berlin to the city of Montréal in 1992 for its 350th birthday. The segment comes from a location near Brandenburg Gate and is now displayed in the Centre de Commerce Mondial.\n\nA fragment of the Berlin Wall is on display at the northeast side of the Costa Rica Ministry of External Relations.\n\nA large segment of the Berlin Wall is located in the Colegio Alemán Alexander von Humboldt in Xochimilco, Mexico City.\n\nA chunk of wall with the rebars still in it is in the Student's Union with a new exhibit around it telling the history of the Berlin Wall at Northern Arizona University.\n\n\nA section of the wall is displayed in the museum at Fort Huachuca highlighting the role of Military Intelligence in the cold war.\n\nAn original ten-foot by ten-foot section of the Berlin Wall was erected next to the Church in the Grove. An East Berliner painted these words from the 23rd Psalm in German on the wall, \"Though I walk through the dark valley, I will not fear.\" When the wall came down, The Great Passion Play acquired this piece as a tribute to the spirit of all people who risk their lives to believe and practice their Christian faith.\n\nThe Wende Museum and Archive of the Cold War features a wall segment that stands at the Museum's entrance, which was painted by the French-born, Berlin-based artist Thierry Noir. The exhibition \"Facing the Wall: Living with the Berlin Wall,\" currently on display at the Wende Museum explores how the Wall became part of the urban fabric of Berlin, and the place where the realities of political ideology and personal experience came face to face.\n\nThe museum's Berlin Wall segment was recently augmented by 10 additional sections, which constitute the longest stretch outside of Berlin. They are currently on display in front of the 5900 Wilshire Boulevard building, painted and installed as part of the Wende's project organized to commemorate the 20th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall.\n\n\nA segment of the Berlin Wall is kept on the main campus of Loyola Marymount University in Los Angeles, California.\n\nTen segments of the Berlin Wall are located at the Variety Building on 5900 Wilshire, in Los Angeles, California.\n\nThree segments of the wall are displayed behind the Middle Eastern language building on W Rifle Range Road\n\nTwo segments of the wall are displayed outside of the Mountain View Public Library. A plaque memorializes the fall of the wall as \"a tribute to American resolve.\" The piece on the right has a cartoon Elvis painted on it and the one on the left says \"Wir lieben Dich\" (We love you).\n\nThe segments and plaque were relocated to this location after they were donated to the city by the descendants of a German-born American business man, Frank Golzen, who originally displayed them at an office park he owned on Marine Way in Mountain View.\n\nChapman University's main campus displays the second largest piece of the Berlin Wall owned by an American university.\n\nA section of the Berlin Wall greets visitors as they arrive at the Reagan Ranch Center, reminding of Ronald Reagan's role in calling for the Wall to be torn down.\n\nA segment of the Berlin Wall is on display in Ronald Reagan Presidential Library located in Simi Valley, California.\n\nA segment of the Berlin Wall is located inside the museum area of the Richard Nixon Library & Birthplace in Yorba Linda, California just outside Los Angeles. The Nixon Library's segment of the wall is similar in size to the segment of the wall displayed at the Reagan Library.\n\nCaptain Herbert Light brought a piece of the Berlin Wall to Colorado, where it is paired with a sculpture by Veryl Goodnight called \"The Day the Wall Came Down.\"\n\nA segment of the wall stands outside of the Hard Rock Cafe located at Universal CityWalk.\n\nIronside, Miami, Florida\nFour segments of the wall are now in the public art collection of Ironside in Miami, Fl. They were temporarily displayed in South Beach during Art Basel 2013 fair before becoming the symbol of the district.\n\nThree sections of the Wall are part of the U.S. Army's collection on display at the National Infantry Museum in the \"Cold War\" gallery.\n\nTwo sections of the Berlin Wall are incorporated in a display that includes a plaque inscribed to \"recognize the sacrifices that the United States military made in guaranteeing a free, stable and democratic Europe\" in Freedom Park on this US Army installation near Augusta, GA. There is also a segment of the wall at the Signal Corps Museum located within Fort Gordon.\n\nA piece of the Berlin Wall was given to Kennesaw State University in Kennesaw, Georgia on loan, which is being displayed outside of the Social Science building.\n\nA segment of the Berlin Wall, protected by plexiglass, is located on the Hope Peninsula east of Sandpoint.\n\nA segment of the wall is inside the Western Ave. CTA Station in Chicago. The Lincoln Square Neighborhood has been historically German.\n\nA segment of the Berlin Wall is on display in the Reagan Peace Garden at Eureka College located in Eureka, Illinois. In a May 9, 1982 speech at Eureka College, President Reagan challenged the Soviet Union to a new era of negotiations to reduce nuclear arms—called START.\n\nA section of the wall is in the Cosmosphere's Hall of Space exhibit at the Kansas Cosmosphere and Space Center.\n\nThree sections were donated to Fort Leavenworth and are displayed in a \"falling position\" just east of the fort's lake near the Buffalo Soldiers Monument.\n\nA section of the wall is on loan to the Museum of World Treasures from the American Overseas Schools Historical Society. The section was originally purchased by the Berlin Brats Alumni Association.\n\nA section of the Berlin Wall containing graffiti with the words \"democracy,\" \"freedom,\" and the phrase \"Tear the wall down\" written on it can be found at the Patton Museum of Cavalry and Armor in Fort Knox, Kentucky as a permanent exhibit.\n\nA segment of the Berlin Wall is located in the Old Port, Portland, Maine close to N 43° 39.329 W 070° 15.123 on Long Wharf near DiMillo's Floating Restaurant.\n\nA section of the Wall was donated in 1989 by the German government and brought to the John F. Kennedy Library located in Boston, Massachusetts with the help of Jean Kennedy Smith, the President's sister.\n\n\nA segment of the wall is located outside the main entrance to Hult International Business School, which is located at One Education Street.\n\nA section of the Wall stands in the Meijer Lobby of the Gerald R. Ford Museum, donated by Frederik Meijer on its 10th anniversary and dedicated by President Ford on September 6, 1991.\n\nA section of the Wall stands in the lobby of the Grand Rapids Public Museum, between the museum entrance and the gift shop. While there is no question of the authenticity of the wall segment, the graffiti on it seems to differ slightly from that seen in a photograph of the segment \"in situ\", indicating that the graffiti may have been reproduced.\n\nA fragment of the Wall sits on campus at Grand Valley State University, donated by Frederik Meijer at the time as the other pieces.\n\nA segment of the Berlin Wall is located on the US Army Engineer Museum at Fort Leonard Wood.\n\n\nA small segment of the Wall can be seen at Westminster College in Fulton, Missouri. Westminster College is known for drawing important world leaders, from Winston Churchill (he gave his famous Iron Curtain speech at Westminster College), to Ronald Reagan, George H. W. Bush, and Margaret Thatcher, among others. The piece of the Wall became part of the Winston Churchill Memorial Library.\n\nOne year after the fall of the Berlin Wall, artist Edwina Sandys, granddaughter of Winston Churchill, proposed the idea of placing a piece of the Wall at the Westminster College campus. With the support of Westminster College, Sandys and her husband, Richard Kaplan, met with officials in East Berlin in February 1990. Upon arrival in Berlin, the couple realized their plans to secure large sections of the wall would be costly, as -wide sections were selling at a cost of $60,000 to $200,000. This obstacle, however, was solved when officials, impressed by the idea of a Berlin Wall monument being erected near the site of Churchill's 1946 \"Iron Curtain\" speech, allowed Sandys to choose eight sections as a gift to the College. Sandys chose her sections from an area near the Brandenburg Gate, frequented by artists, because of the dramatic color of the graffiti. The repeated use of the word \"unwahr,\" within the sections, which in German means \"untrue\", also appealed to her.\n\nOn November 9, 1990, after a nine-month effort, the \"Breakthrough\" sculpture stood appropriately in the foreground of the College's Winston Churchill Memorial and Library. Joined by former President Ronald Reagan, then Governor John Ashcroft and German Minister Plenipotentiary , Sandys introduced her sculpture to the assembled crowd. Forty-four years after her grandfather warned of an \"iron curtain,\" the wide open doors of \"Breakthrough\" provided a concrete image of the newly realized freedom in Eastern Europe.\n\nA fragment of the wall is located in the permanent exhibition of the National Atomic Testing Museum in Las Vegas, Nevada.\n\nA slab of the wall rests secretly behind the book store on campus\n\nA section of the Berlin Wall is located in the Main Street Station Hotel and Casino and Brewery men's bathroom in downtown Las Vegas, Nevada.\n\nTwo wall sections were used for the \"BreakFree\" sculpture by Edwina Sandys at \"Freedom Court\" outside the Franklin D. Roosevelt Presidential Library and Museum in Hyde Park, New York. It stands on a base inscribed with Franklin D. Roosevelt's Four Freedoms (freedom of speech, freedom of worship, freedom from want, freedom from fear), and is flanked by busts of FDR and Winston Churchill.\n\nStony Point Justice Court, Stony Point, New York\n\nA section of the wall is located outside of the Stony Point Justice Court.\n\n\nAt least four segments of the wall are located in New York City. One can be found between Gateway Plaza and the North Cove marina in the World Financial Center near the World Trade Center site. A second segment can be found in the gardens at the United Nations headquarters, among the sculptures. A third segment exists on 53rd Street between Fifth and Madison Avenues. A fourth segment can be found at the Ripley's Believe It or Not! Museum in Times Square. Thierry Noir and Kiddy Citny are the two painters of those five pieces of the Berlin Wall, painted in September 1985 along the Waldemarstrasse in Berlin Kreuzberg. The segment of the Berlin Wall shown at the right was originally located at Waldemarstrasse in Berlin. This graffiti among others along Waldemarstreet were well documented in 1985 through ten poster photos made by photographers Liselotte and Armin Orgel-Köhne.\n\n\"Every Wall Falls Eventually\" is the name of a piece of the Berlin Wall on display in the food court area of the Bausch and Lomb Headquarters. It was installed there in 1995. This no longer resides in Rochester, NY because in 2013 Bausch and Lomb was purchased by Valeant Pharmaceuticals. The wall was given to a CEO in Switzerland as part of the business deal in August 2014.\n\nA section of the wall stands behind the Milton J. Rubenstein Museum of Science and Technology in Armory Square.\n\nThe segment of Berlin wall from Waldemarstrasse found at Marbles Kids Museum today, was made by Kiddy Citny in 1985, and is one of the two famous graffiti \"hearts\" made by this artist.\n\nCapital University's Blackmore Library once housed the largest sections of the Berlin Wall in the United States. When Blackmore Library was renovated, this section was moved outside and sprayed with a protective layer to preserve the concrete and keep it from eroding.\n\nA section of the Berlin Wall is on display outside of the National Underground Railroad Freedom Center in downtown Cincinnati, Ohio. This section is said to be a gift from the city of Berlin, Germany and depicts in red paint what appears to be half of a woman's face.\n\nA section of the wall was installed by Warminster's local German-American club in 1991. It is the first segment that was sent to America after the fall of the wall and was presented in the 1990 Steuben parade in Philadelphia.\n\nTwo segments of the Berlin Wall are located on the front lawn of a German business, Menzel Inc. They are easily seen from Business Interstate 85, the interstate passing directly in front of the German-owned business.\n\nA small section of the wall is contained in the \"Honoring Native American Veterans\" exhibit in one of Mt. Rushmore's visitor centers.\n\nA section of the Berlin Wall is located near the downtown area of Rapid City, South Dakota.\nA section of the Wall is on display inside the George Bush Presidential Library located in College Station, Texas, as well as outside the museum as part of a sculpture entitled \"The Day the Wall Came Down,\" by Veryl Goodnight, which depicts five horses running through rubble of the wall.\n\nA second similar sculpture, also containing pieces of the Berlin Wall, is located at the Allied Museum in Berlin. This was given as a gift from the United States of America to Germany.\n\n\nTwo segments of the wall are on display in the sculpture garden of the Hilton Anatole hotel in Dallas, Texas. The two sections are each tall.\n\nA segment of the wall is on display outside the James Baker Institute for Public Policy at Rice University in Houston, Texas. Baker was U.S. Secretary of State during the reunification of Germany.\n\n\nA segment of the wall is on display outside of Alderman Library at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville, Virginia. The University of Virginia is a UNESCO World Heritage Site and was founded by Thomas Jefferson.\n\nA 10' x 10' section of the Wall is on display at the Virginia War Museum in Newport News, Virginia.\n\nThe Microsoft Art Collection in Redmond, Washington contains a section of the wall donated by Daimler-Benz AG.\n\n\nA piece of the wall rests in the Center House at Seattle Center. A section of the wall is also on display in the Sculpture Garden at History House of Greater Seattle, a museum located in the Fremont neighborhood.\n\nA segment of the wall was given to the university from the Senate of Berlin in 1997. It was given to the Nitze School and the American Institute for Contemporary German Studies of the Johns Hopkins University. It stands in tribute to the success of the German-American partnership and as a symbol of the peaceful end of the Cold War. It is on display outside of the building entrance just south of Dupont Circle on Massachusetts Avenue, NW.\n\nThe largest section of the Berlin Wall outside of Germany, previously on display at Freedom Park in the Rosslyn neighborhood of Arlington County, Virginia, just outside Washington, D.C., is now located at the Newseum in Washington, DC. The exhibit includes eight sections of the wall and an East German guard tower from Checkpoint Charlie.\n\nA segment of the Berlin Wall is located in the main lobby of the Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center at 1300 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., in Washington, D.C.\n\nA segment of the wall stands on the campus of the Atlanta International School in Atlanta, Georgia.\n\nTwo segments of the wall are on the property of the Frank Lloyd Wright designed I.N. Hagan house. Lord Peter Palumbo, after purchasing the house in 1986, put one section of the wall in the sculpture meadow, and the other along the drive leading up to the house.\n"}
{"id": "30934165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30934165", "title": "List of Estonian historians", "text": "List of Estonian historians\n\nA list of notable historians from Estonia:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13247450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13247450", "title": "Madeleine Herren", "text": "Madeleine Herren\n\nMadeleine Herren-Oesch (*26. January 1956 in Bern) is a Swiss historian.\n\nMadeleine Herren-Oesch studied history and german literature at the University of Bern. She wrote her licentiate about \"Aspekte cisleithanischer Sozialpolitik\" (\"Aspects of the Cisleithanian Social Policy\") and in 1989 her dissertation about \"Internationale Sozialpolitik vor dem Ersten Weltkrieg aus der Perspektive der Dritten Französischen Republik\" (\"International pre-World War I Social Policy from the perspective of the French Third Republic\"). In 1997 she was promoted to professor with \"Hintertüren zur Macht - Internationalismus und modernisierungsorientierte Außenpolitik in Belgien, der Schweiz und den USA 1865-1914\" (Internationalism and modernized foreign policy in Belgium, Switzerland and the United States 1865-1914). Between 2004 and 2013, Madeleine Herren-Oesch was professor for modern history at the University of Heidelberg. Since April 2013 she has been director of the Institute for European Global Studies at the .\n\n"}
{"id": "9701385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9701385", "title": "Menashi–Kunashir rebellion", "text": "Menashi–Kunashir rebellion\n\nThe or Menashi-Kunashir battle was a battle in 1789 between Ainu and Japanese on the Shiretoko Peninsula in northeastern Hokkaidō. It began in May 1789 when Ainu attacked Japanese on Kunashir Island and parts of the Menashi District as well as at sea. More than 70 Japanese were killed. The Japanese executed 37 Ainu identified as conspirators and arrested many others. Reasons for the revolt are not entirely clear, but they are believed to include a suspicion of poisoned sake being given to Ainu in a loyalty ceremony, and other objectionable behavior by Japanese traders.\n\nThe battle is the subject of \"Majin no Umi\", a children's novel by Maekawa Yasuo that received the Japanese Association of Writers for Children Prize in 1970.\n\nA similar large-scale Ainu revolt against Japanese influence in Yezo was Shakushain's Revolt from c. 1669–1672.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "84695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=84695", "title": "Nara period", "text": "Nara period\n\nThe of the history of Japan covers the years from AD 710 to 794. Empress Genmei established the capital of Heijō-kyō (present-day Nara). Except for a five-year period (740–745), when the capital was briefly moved again, it remained the capital of Japanese civilization until Emperor Kanmu established a new capital, Nagaoka-kyō, in 784, before moving to Heian-kyō, or Kyoto, a decade later in 794.\n\nMost of Japanese society during this period was agricultural in nature and centered on villages. Most of the villagers followed a religion based on the worship of natural and ancestral spirits called \"kami\".\n\nThe capital at Nara was modeled after Chang'an, the capital city of Tang China. In many other ways, the Japanese upper classes patterned themselves after the Chinese, including adopting Chinese written system, fashion, and the religion of Buddhism.\n\nConcentrated efforts by the imperial court to record and document its history produced the first works of Japanese literature during the Nara period. Works such as the \"Kojiki\" and the \"Nihon Shoki\" were political in nature, used to record and therefore justify and establish the supremacy of the rule of the emperors within Japan.\n\nWith the spread of written language, the writing of Japanese poetry, known in Japanese as \"waka\", began. Over time, personal collections were referenced to establish the first large collection of Japanese poetry known as \"Man'yōshū\" sometime after 759. Chinese characters were used to express sounds of Japanese until \"kana\" were invented. The Chinese characters used to express the sounds of Japanese are known as \"man'yōgana\".\n\nBefore the Taihō Code was established, the capital was customarily moved after the death of an emperor because of the ancient belief that a place of death was polluted. Reforms and bureaucratization of government led to the establishment of a permanent imperial capital at Heijō-kyō, or Nara, in AD 710.\nIt is to be noted that the capital was moved shortly (for reasons described later in this section) to Kuni-kyō (present-day Kizugawa) in 740–744, to Naniwa-kyō (present-day Osaka) in 744–745, to Shigarakinomiya (紫香楽宮, present-day Shigaraki) in 745, and moved back to Nara in 745. Nara was Japan's first truly urban center. It soon had a population of 200,000 (representing nearly 7% of the country's population) and some 10,000 people worked in government jobs.\n\nEconomic and administrative activity increased during the Nara period. Roads linked Nara to provincial capitals, and taxes were collected more efficiently and routinely. Coins were minted, if not widely used. Outside the Nara area, however, there was little commercial activity, and in the provinces the old Shōtoku land reform systems declined. By the mid-eighth century, \"shōen\" (landed estates), one of the most important economic institutions in prehistoric Japan, began to rise as a result of the search for a more manageable form of landholding. Local administration gradually became more self-sufficient, while the breakdown of the old land distribution system and the rise of taxes led to the loss or abandonment of land by many people who became the \"wave people\" (\"furōsha\"). Some of these formerly \"public people\" were privately employed by large landholders, and \"public lands\" increasingly reverted to the \"shōen\".\n\nFactional fighting at the imperial court continued throughout the Nara period. Imperial family members, leading court families, such as the Fujiwara, and Buddhist priests all contended for influence. Earlier this period, Prince Nagaya seized power at the court after the death of Fujiwara no Fuhito. Fuhito was succeeded by four sons, Muchimaro, Umakai, Fusasaki, and Maro. They put Emperor Shōmu, the prince by Fuhito's daughter, on the throne. In 729, they arrested Nagaya and regained control. However, as a major outbreak of smallpox spread from Kyūshū in 735, all four brothers died two years later, resulting in temporary shrinking of Fujiwara's dominance. In 740, a member of the Fujiwara clan, Hirotsugu launched a rebellion from his base in Fukuoka, Kyushu. Although defeated, it is without doubt that the Emperor was heavily shocked about these events, and he moved the palace three times in only five years from 740, until he eventually returned to Nara. In the late Nara period, financial burdens on the state increased, and the court began dismissing nonessential officials. In 792 universal conscription was abandoned, and district heads were allowed to establish private militia forces for local police work. Decentralization of authority became the rule despite the reforms of the Nara period. Eventually, to return control to imperial hands, the capital was moved in 784 to Nagaoka-kyō and in 794 to Heian-kyō (literally Capital of Peace and Tranquility), about twenty-six kilometers north of Nara. By the late eleventh century, the city was popularly called Kyoto (capital city), the name it has had ever since.\n\nSome of Japan's literary monuments were written during the Nara period, including the \"Kojiki\" and \"Nihon Shoki\", the first national histories, compiled in 712 and 720 respectively; the \"Man'yōshū\", an anthology of poems; and the \"Kaifūsō\", an anthology written in Chinese by Japanese emperors and princes.\n\nAnother major cultural development of the era was the permanent establishment of Buddhism. Buddhism was introduced by Baekje in the sixth century but had a mixed reception until the Nara period, when it was heartily embraced by Emperor Shōmu. Shōmu and his Fujiwara consort were fervent Buddhists and actively promoted the spread of Buddhism, making it the \"guardian of the state\" and a way of strengthening Japanese institutions.\n\nDuring Shōmu's reign, the Tōdai-ji (literally Eastern Great Temple) was built. Within it was placed the Great Buddha Daibutsu: a 16-metre-high, gilt-bronze statue. This Buddha was identified with the Sun Goddess, and a gradual syncretism of Buddhism and Shinto ensued. Shōmu declared himself the \"Servant of the Three Treasures\" of Buddhism: the Buddha, the law or teachings of Buddhism, and the Buddhist community.\n\nThe central government established temples called \"kokubunji\" in the provinces. The Tōdai-ji was the kokubunji of Yamato Province (present-day Nara Prefecture).\n\nAlthough these efforts stopped short of making Buddhism the state religion, Nara Buddhism heightened the status of the imperial family. Buddhist influence at court increased under the two reigns of Shōmu's daughter. As Empress Kōken (r. 749–758) she brought many Buddhist priests into court. Kōken abdicated in 758 on the advice of her cousin, Fujiwara no Nakamaro. When the retired empress came to favor a Buddhist faith healer named Dōkyō, Nakamaro rose up in arms in 764 but was quickly crushed. Kōken charged the ruling emperor with colluding with Nakamaro and had him deposed. Kōken reascended the throne as Empress Shōtoku (r. 764–770). \n\nThe empress commissioned the printing of 1 million prayer charms — the Hyakumantō Darani — many examples of which survive. The small scrolls, dating from 770, are among the earliest printed works in the world. Shōtoku had the charms printed to placate the Buddhist clergy. She may even have wanted to make Dōkyō emperor, but she died before she could act. Her actions shocked Nara society and led to the exclusion of women from imperial succession and the removal of Buddhist priests from positions of political authority.\n\nMany of the Japanese artworks and imported treasures from other countries during the era of Emperors Shōmu and Shōtoku are archived in Shōsō-in of Tōdai-ji temple. They are called Shōsōin treasures and illustrate the cosmopolitan culture known as Tempyō culture. Imported treasures show cultural influences of Silk Road areas, including China, Korea, India, and the Islamic Empire. Shosoin stores more than 10,000 paper documents so-called . These are records written in the reverse side of the sutra or in the wrapping of imported items that survived as a result of reusing wasted official documents. Shōsōin documents contribute greatly to the research of Japanese political and social systems of the Nara period, while they even indicate the development of Japanese writing systems (such as katakana).\n\nThe first authentically Japanese gardens were built in the city Nara at the end of the eighth century. Shorelines and stone settings were naturalistic, different from the heavier, earlier continental mode of constructing pond edges. Two such gardens have been found at excavations; both were used for poetry-writing festivities.\n\nThe Nara court aggressively imported Chinese civilization by sending diplomatic envoys known as kentōshi to the Tang court every twenty years. Many Japanese students, both lay and Buddhist priests, studied in Chang'an and Luoyang. One student named Abe no Nakamaro passed the Chinese civil examination to be appointed to governmental posts in China. He served as Governor-General in Annam or Chinese Vietnam from 761 through 767. Many students who returned from China, such as Kibi no Makibi, were promoted to high government posts.\n\nTang China never sent official envoys to Japan, for Japanese kings, or emperors as they styled themselves, did not seek investiture from the Chinese emperor. A local Chinese government in Lower Yangzi Valley sent a mission to Japan to return Japanese envoys who entered China through Balhae. The Chinese local mission could not return home due to the An Lushan Rebellion and remained in Japan.\n\nRelations with the Korean kingdom of Silla were initially peaceful, with regular diplomatic exchanges. However, the rise of Balhae north of Silla destabilized Japan-Silla relations. Balhae sent its first mission in 728 to Nara, which welcomed them as the successor state to Goguryeo, with which Japan had been allied until Silla unified the Three Kingdoms of Korea.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8904331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8904331", "title": "Neocorus", "text": "Neocorus\n\nJohann Adolf Köster (also Johannes Adolph Köster) (c. 1550 – 1630) was a pastor, teacher and historian in Büsum, Germany. He is better known by his Latin name Neocorus, under which he chronicled the medieval history of Dithmarschen. The Neocorus School in Büsum was named in his honor in 1995.\n\nIn addition to documenting historic events, Neocorus also wrote accounts of daily life in Dithmarschen during the late 16th century and collected local lore and anecdotes. For example, his chronicles contain a parallel to the story of the forest of Birnam. Michelsen called Neocorus' chronicles the \"best and richest of Holstein's chronicles\".\n\nNeocorus' \"Chronik des Landes Dithmarschen\" was the basis for a 44-minute movie produced in Germany narrating the battle of the people of Dithmarschen for independence from Holstein and Denmark during the late Middle Ages.\n"}
{"id": "20784062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20784062", "title": "Neutrality (philosophy)", "text": "Neutrality (philosophy)\n\nNeutrality is the tendency not to \"side\" in a conflict (physical or ideological), which may not suggest neutral parties do not have a side or are not a side themselves.\nIn colloquial use \"neutral\" can be synonymous with \"unbiased\". However, bias is a favoritism for some side, distinct of the tendency to act on that favoritism.\n\nNeutrality is distinct (though not exclusive) from apathy, ignorance, indifference, doublethink, equality, agreement, and objectivity. Objectivity suggests siding with the more reasonable position (except journalistic objectivity), where reasonableness is judged by some common basis between the sides, such as logic (thereby avoiding the problem of incommensurability). Neutrality implies tolerance regardless of how disagreeable, deplorable, or unusual a perspective might be. Advocating neutrality is neutral attitude.\n\nIn moderation and mediation, neutrality is often expected to make judgments or facilitate dialog independent of any bias, putting emphasis on the process rather than the outcome. For example, a neutral-party is seen as a party with no (or a fully disclosed) conflict of interest in a conflict, and is expected to operate as-if it has no bias.\nNeutral parties are often perceived as more trustworthy, reliable, and safe.\n\nAlternative to acting without a bias, the bias of neutrality itself is the expectation upon the Swiss government (in armed neutrality), and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (in non-interventionism).\n\nNeutrality implies not judging the validity of an opinion.\nThus, a neutral position will provide a platform for all opinions, including irrational or malicious ones.\n\nIn classical periods of enlightenment, neutrality has been looked down upon as a character vice, an escape from one's duty to think and to act, as opposed to the modern trend of esteeming neutrality as a virtue.\n\nOther views include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "142127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=142127", "title": "Niketas Choniates", "text": "Niketas Choniates\n\nNiketas or Nicetas Choniates (, ca. 1155 to 1217), whose real surname was Akominatos (Ἀκομινάτος), was a Greek Byzantine government official and historian – like his brother Michael Akominatos, whom he accompanied to Constantinople from their birthplace Chonae (from which came his nickname, \"Choniates\" meaning \"person from Chonae\"). Nicetas wrote a history of the Eastern Roman Empire from 1118 to 1207.\n\nNiketas Akominatos was born to wealthy parents around or after 1150 in Phrygia in the city of Chonae (near the modern Honaz in Turkey). Bishop Nicetas of Chonae baptized and named the infant; later he was called \"Choniates\" after his birthplace. When he was nine, his father dispatched him with his brother Michael to Constantinople to receive an education. Niketas' older brother greatly influenced him during the early stages of his life.\n\nHe initially secured a post in the civil service, and held important appointments under the Angelos emperors (among them that of Grand Logothete or Chancellor) and was governor of the theme of Philippopolis at a critical period. After the sack of Constantinople during the Fourth Crusade in 1204, he fled to Nicaea, where he settled at the court of the Nicaean emperor Theodore I Lascaris, and devoted himself to literature. He died c. 1215–16.\n\nHis chief work is his \"History\", in twenty-one books, of the period from 1118 to 1207. In spite of its florid style, it is of value as a record (on the whole impartial) of events to which he was either an eyewitness or which he had heard of first hand (though he should be balanced with the other Greek historian for this time, John Kinnamos). Its most interesting portion is the description of the occupation of Constantinople in 1204, which may be read with Geoffroi de Villehardouin's and Paolo Rannusio's works on the same subject.\n\nHis little treatise \"On the Statues destroyed by the Latins\" is of special interest to the archaeologist and art historian.\n\nHis theological work, (\"Thesaurus Orthodoxae Fidei\"), although extant in a complete form in manuscripts, has been published only in part. It is one of the chief authorities for the heresies and heretical writers of the 12th century.\n\nUmberto Eco's novel \"Baudolino\" is set partly at Constantinople during the Crusader conquest. The imaginary hero, Baudolino, saves Niketas during the sacking of Constantinople, and then proceeds to confide his life story to him.\n\nNiketas is a major character in Alan Gordon's murder mystery \"A Death in the Venetian Quarter\" (New York: St. Martin's Minotaru, 2002).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18872964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18872964", "title": "Occupation of Gori", "text": "Occupation of Gori\n\nThe Occupation of Gori was the military occupation of Gori and its surrounding areas by Russian military forces, which started on 13 August 2008 as part of the Russo-Georgian War, and ended with the withdrawal of Russian units from the city on 22 August 2008.\n\nGori is a strategic city in central Georgia, about from Tskhinvali. Gori is a major military installation and transportation hub in Georgia. 75 tanks and armored personnel carriers (a third of the Georgian military's arsenal) were assembled near Gori on 7 August.\n\nAround 6:27 AM on 9 August 2008, Reuters reported that two Russian fighters had bombed a Georgian artillery position about 10 km north of Gori. On 9 August, a Russian air attack targeted military barracks in Gori. In the resulting explosion, besides the base, several apartment buildings and a school were also damaged. The Georgian government reported that 60 civilians were killed when bombs hit the apartment buildings. According to the Russian media, Russian aircraft dropped three bombs on an armament depot, and the façade of one of the adjacent 5-story apartment buildings suffered damage as a result of exploding ammunition from the depot. Russian aircraft had bombed at least five Georgian cities by 9 August.\n\nFollowing its defeat in Tskhinvali, the Georgian Army regrouped at Gori. Georgian military entered the city on 10 August. On 10 August, BBC reported that people were leaving Gori because they feared of Russian advance towards the city. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and World Food Programme determined that about 80 percent of residents had left Gori as of 10 August. Russians began advancing towards Gori.\n\nOn 11 August 2008, the Georgian forces retreated from Gori. A senior Georgian security official, Kakha Lomaia, said that the troops were ordered to defend Tbilisi. Police sealed off the highway from Tbilisi, and did not allow any cars into the city. The Russian attacks were met with Georgian artillery firing towards South Ossetia, and at least six Georgian helicopters were reported to have also attacked targets in South Ossetia. A Times reporter described the Georgian withdrawal as \"sudden and dramatic\", saying that the \"residents watched in horror\" as their army abandoned their positions. Georgian tanks and armored personnel carries fled to Tbilisi. A tank exploded on the mountain road due to unspecified reasons, and an armored car pushing it out of the way also caught fire. Georgian infantry fled the city by any means available. Five soldiers escaped the city on one Quad bike. By late 11 August, Gori was deserted after most remaining residents and Georgian soldiers had fled. Georgia said that Russian forces had captured Gori, but a Reuters witness saw no troops in the empty town. Initial Georgian reports that Russian troops were in Gori, were later discounted by Georgia.\n\nGeorgian armed forces concentrated on holding Mtskheta, from the capital Tbilisi. Deputy Defense Minister Batu Kutelia said that the defense line was being moved to Mtskheta.\n\nOn 12 August 2008, a Dutch television journalist Stan Storimans was killed and another journalist injured when Russian warplanes bombed the city. As a result of the explosion 7 people were killed, over 30 were injured. Georgian officials said Russian forces had been targeting the city's administrative buildings; the university of Gori and its post office were on fire after the bombings. Russia's deputy head of the General Staff, Colonel-General Anatoliy Nogovitsyn, denied that Russian forces had attacked the town. That day, a missile struck the Gori Military Hospital, despite the fact that Red Cross flag was flying over the roof, killing doctor Goga Abramishvili.\n\nPresident Mikheil Saakashvili said his country had been sliced in half with the capture of a critical highway crossroads near Gori.\n\nHuman Rights Watch (HRW), an international rights group, accused Russia of deploying indiscriminately deadly cluster bombs in civilian areas. HRW said that Russian aircraft had dropped RBK-250 cluster bombs, each containing 30 PTAB 2.5M submunitions or bomblets on the town of Ruisi in the Kareli district of Georgia, on 12 August. On the same day a cluster strike in the centre of Gori killed at least eight civilians, including Stan Storimans and injured dozens.\n\nRussian military official denied using cluster munitions, calling the assertion \"slanderous\". Numerous unexploded submunitions were subsequently found by local population in the Gori district and the HRW documented them.\n\nSeveral hours after the ceasefire agreement was reached, a Russian tank battalion occupied parts of Gori. Rumors of a possible attack on Tbilisi circulated. Russian troops took control of Gori on 13 August 2008. Sergey Lavrov said that when Georgian troops abandoned their military headquarters near Gori, they left \"a major arsenal of armaments and military equipment\" and the Russian troops were guarding it. Russian troops said they were removing military hardware and ammunition from an arms depot outside Gori. A Russian armored column left Gori, traveling along the main road to Tbilisi. Russian forces then halted their advance and camped out in a field about an hour's drive from Tbilisi.\n\nIn the morning of 14 August, Georgian police and military vehicles prepared to re-enter Gori after the expected departure of Russian forces. Reports of a collapse in negotiations triggered a confrontation between Georgian and Russian troops at a checkpoint on the main road, however no shots were fired. By the afternoon, Russian tanks had moved in to guard the entrance to town. Russian major general Vyacheslav Borisov told Aleksandre Lomaia, secretary of Georgia's National Security Council, that the residents of Gori were not disturbed by the Russians' presence. Later, Russian forces allowed Georgian police to return. Vyacheslav Borisov claimed that the city of Gori was controlled jointly by Georgian Police and Russian troops. He further said that Russian troops would start leaving Gori in two days. But joint patrols soon broke down because of apparent discord among personnel and the city returned to full Russian control. More than 30 police officers returned to a Georgian post outside the city. Russia's UN ambassador, Vitaly Churkin, denied that Russian troops were occupying Gori, saying that Russian soldiers \"are not in Gori, have never been in Gori and do not occupy Gori,\" and rejected the reports that the town was in ruins.\n\nRussian forces pushed to about from Tbilisi, the closest during the war; they stopped in Igoeti . The parts of Georgia’s army, which had manned a narrow front in the immediate vicinity down the road, maintained their positions. The Russian move coincided with the U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice’s meeting with Georgian president Saakashvili on 15 August.\n\nThe uniformed Russian troops were followed by the irregular soldiers, identified as Chechen, Cossack and Ossetian \"volunteers\". \"Now Ossetians are running around and killing poor Georgians in their enclaves,\" said Major-General Vyacheslav Borisov on 14 August. A Russian lieutenant said: \"We have to be honest. The Ossetians are marauding.\" Answering a journalist's question, a Russian lieutenant colonel said: \"We're not a police force, we're a military force. [...] It's not our job to do police work.\" \"The New York Times\" noted, that \"the Russian military might be making efforts in some places to stop the rampaging\". The Russian forces denied access to some humanitarian aid missions seeking to assist civilians. The United Nations, which has described the humanitarian situation in Gori as \"desperate,\" was able to deliver only limited food supplies to the city. On 17 August, BBC reported that humanitarian aid was being delivered to the city. The Russian commander in Gori said his troops were staying to prevent looting and would leave when Georgian police was ready to take over.\n\nIn the 17 August report, HRW said the organization's researchers interviewed ethnic Georgians from the city of Gori and surrounding villages who described how armed Ossetian pro-Russian militias attacked their cars and kidnapped civilians who were trying to flee militia attacks on their homes after the Russian advance into the region. Numerous crimes against humanity or war crimes had been committed by Ossetian militias. In phone interviews, people remaining in Gori region villages told HRW that they had witnessed looting and arson attacks by Ossetian militias in their villages, but were afraid to leave after learning about militia attacks on those who fled. According to the Hague Convention, an occupying power has to insure public order and safety in the occupied areas. The Russian human rights group Memorial called the attacks by South Ossetian militia \"pogroms\".\n\nThe last Russian military formations left the city late on 22 August 2008, and Georgian law enforcement units moved into Gori shortly thereafter. Gigi Ugulava, the mayor of Tbilisi, said that the authorities would arrange \"an organized return\" of tens of thousands of displaced persons to Gori. The closest Russian checkpoint remaining in the vicinity of Gori was located in the village of Karaleti, five kilometers from the town.\n"}
{"id": "4884918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4884918", "title": "Polynesian Society", "text": "Polynesian Society\n\nThe Polynesian Society is a non-profit organization based at the University of Auckland, New Zealand, dedicated to the scholarly study of the history, ethnography, and mythology of Oceania.\n\nThe society was co-founded in 1892 by Percy Smith and Edward Tregear, largely in response to a conviction, widely held at the time, that the Māori and other Polynesian peoples were a dying race. Smith and his friends hoped that it would help to preserve the traditional lore of the Māori before it disappeared and provide scholars with a forum for learned discussion of their ethnographic research (Byrnes 2006).\n\nThe initial membership of the society was 112, which had grown to 1,300 by 1965. Presidents have included Bishops H. W. and W. L. Williams; James Henry Pope, Edward Tregear, Percy Smith, Elsdon Best, W. H. Skinner, Sir Āpirana Ngata, H. D. Skinner, J. M. McEwen, Professor Sir Hugh Kawharu and Dame Joan Metge. The present president is Dr Richard Benton.\n\nUntil her death in 2006, the society's patron was the Māori Queen Te Arikinui Dame Te Ata-i-rangi-kaahu (1931-2006); Dame Te Ata was succeeded by the current patrons, Le Afioga Tuiatua Tupua Tamasese Efi, Head of State of Samoa, and Te Ariki Tumu Te Heuheu, Paramount Chief of Ngati Tuwharetoa.\n\nFrom its earliest days, the society published the quarterly \"Journal of the Polynesian Society\", which became the society's principal means to publish information about the indigenous peoples of Polynesia, Melanesia, and Micronesia. The journal is a rich repository of the traditions of Oceania. Its first editors were S. Percy Smith and Edward Tregear. Smith was its chief contributor until his death in 1922. The list of subsequent editors includes W. H. Skinner, Elsdon Best, Johannes C. Andersen, H. D. Skinner, C. R. H. Taylor, W. R. Geddes, W. C. Groves, Bruce Biggs, Melvyn McLean and Richard Moyle. The present editors are Judith Huntsman and Melinda Allen.\n\nIn addition to this journal, the society has published many notable monographs, including S. Percy Smith's \"History and Traditions of the Taranaki Coast\" (1910) and \"The Lore of the Whare Wananga\" (1913–15); A. Shand's \"The Moriori People of the Chatham Islands\" (1911); Elsdon Best, \"The Maori\" (1924) and \"Tuhoe\" (1925); J. C. Andersen, \"Maori Music\" (1934); and C. R. H. Taylor, \"A Pacific Bibliography\" (1951), and two catalogues of the Oldman Collection of Māori and Polynesian artifacts (2004).\n\nOther major works include A. Ngata and Pei Te Hurinui Jones \"Nga Moteatea\" (1959-1990), a definitive four-volume collection of traditional Māori song with translations and commentaries, which has been published in a new, enhanced edition by Auckland University Press in association with the Polynesian Society.\n\nA history of the society and its journal, M. P. K. Sorrenson's \"Manifest Duty: The Polynesian Society over 100 years\", and a \"Centennial Index 1892–1991\" (D. Brown, compiler) were published in 1991.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5248882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5248882", "title": "Pop-culture tourism", "text": "Pop-culture tourism\n\nPop-culture tourism is the act of traveling to locations featured in popular literature, film, music, or any other form of media. Also referred to as a \"Location Vacation\".\n\nPop-culture tourism is in some respects akin to pilgrimage, with its modern equivalents of places of pilgrimage, such as Elvis Presley's Graceland and the grave of Jim Morrison in Père Lachaise Cemetery.\n\nPopular destinations have included:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45255007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45255007", "title": "Princess Red Wing", "text": "Princess Red Wing\n\nPrincess Red Wing (1896–1987) was a Narragansett and Wampanoag elder, historian, folklorist, and museum curator. She was an expert on American Indian history and culture, and she once addressed the United Nations.\n\n\"Princess Red Wing\" was born Mary E. Glasko on March 21, 1896 in Sprague, Connecticut to Walter and Hannah Glasko (née Weeden). She said that her mother chose to call her Princess Red Wing after the red-winged blackbird \"to fling her mission far with grace\". Her mother was a Wampanoag and her father was a Narragansett, and she is related to prominent Indians in American history such as Simeon Simons, who fought with George Washington, and Metacomet, who is more notoriously remembered as King Philip who instigated King Philip's War against colonists in New England in the 1670s.\n\nRed Wing was the co-founder and editor of \"The Narragansett Dawn\" tribal newspaper which was published from 1935 to 1936. She became Squaw Sachem of the New England Council of Chiefs in 1945, a position which allowed her to preside over sacred ceremonies and festivals. She was also a prominent storyteller in the Narragansett community, keeping alive the oral traditions of her tribe. She preserved their history by founding the Tomaquag Indian Memorial Museum in Rhode Island. From 1947 to 1970, she served as a member of the Speaker's Research Committee of the under secretariat of the United Nations. In 1975, she was awarded an honorary doctorate of human affairs by the University of Rhode Island. In 1978, she was inducted into the Rhode Island Heritage Hall of Fame. \n\nRed Wing was married to Horace Peek until his death in 1927, then to Daniel Congdon from 1936 to his death in 1959. She died on December 2, 1987 at age 91 and was buried in Pascoag, Rhode Island.\n"}
{"id": "8706767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8706767", "title": "Pétrus Ky", "text": "Pétrus Ky\n\nTrương Vĩnh Ký (Chinese characters 張永記), known as Pétrus Ky and Jean-Baptiste Pétrus, (Vĩnh Long Province, 6 December 1837 - 1 September 1898) was a Vietnamese scholar whose publications helped improve understanding between colonial Vietnam and Europe. His works helped popularize the romanized script of the Vietnamese language, Quốc Ngữ, leading to its officialization in the early 20th century. He served in the French colonial regime as a linguist, and also translated many literary works into modern Vietnamese.\n\nTruong Vinh Ky, also called J.B. Truong Chanh Ky, or Petrus Ky, was born on December 6, 1837 in Vinh Thanh Village, Minh Ly Canton, Tan Minh District, Vinh Long Province (now is Vinh Thanh Commune, Cho Lach District, Ben Tre Province).\n\nHis father was Commander Truong Chanh Thi, his mother was Nguyen Thi Chau. He started to learn the Mandarin language at as early as 5 years of age. When he was 9, he lost his father. In Cai Nhum at that time there was a Christian missionary teaching the Latin language. At 12, Ky studied the Christian Bible with Father Hue (or the Priest Belleveaux) and followed him to the Pinhalu School in Phnom Penh, Cambodia. In 1851, Truong was granted a scholarship by this school to study at the Penang Seminary, then the main centre of Roman Catholic training for Southeast Asian countries. At the Penang Seminary, Truong Vinh Ky showed outstanding learning skills to the ideological and knowledge on natural as well as social sciences, that even some of the famed personalities at that time were surprised and praised his excellent brainpower and erudite knowledge. He also proved himself skillful in linguistics. Beside the commonly used languages at the time such as French, English, Latin, Greek, Hindi, and Japanese, he was also proficient in Chinese, Spanish, Malay, Lao, Thai, Burmese. Truong Vinh Ky worked mainly in the cultural domain, but he also worked for 8 months at the Viện cơ mật (Secret Affairs Institute, Privy Council) in the court at Huế and another 8 months as an interpreter in the Vietnamese delegation to France. When the French troops attacked the Province of Gia Dinh in December, 1859, he was appointed as an interpreter to the Occupying forces.\n\nIn June, 1863, he accompanied Phan Thanh Gian, the chief delegator sent to France by the Hue Court to negotiate the retrieval of provinces lost into French hands. This trip was a good opportunity for Truong to meet with famous figures at the time such as Victor Hugo, Littre, Renan, and French statesmen. He was also able to visit Egypt, Portugal, Spain, Italy, etc.\n\nThe trip also gave him a broader perspective view of his own country and the plight of his fellow countrymen. Once all 6 provinces of the Cochninchine were lost to the French invaders, Truong was appointed as the first Annamite official to serve under the French protectorate.\n\nHe was professor of French language at the Interpreter School (1866-1868), Chief editor for the Gia Dinh News (1868), Director of the Pedagogic School and at the same time Secretary of the City Council of Cho Lon (1872), professor in French language for the French and Spanish expats at the Collège des Administrateurs Stagiaires in 1874. In February, 1876, Truong was appointed as the Supervisor for king Đồng Khánh at the Viện cơ mật and stayed in that job until October, 1876. Then he went back to Saigon.\n\nHe was no longer accredited after the abrupt death of Governor-General Paul Bert on November 11, 1886, and spent most of the time doing research and teaching at the Interpreter School and the Collège des Administrateurs Stagiaires. He died on 1 September 1898, in Saigon, aged 62. Some of people apart of his family that are alive today include Nia Truong Le and Tessa Truong Le.\n\nDuring his 40 years working in the cultural field, Truong Vinh Ky created 118 works of many genres such as research, collecting, translation, transcription, tens of which were written in French. He was also a member of science societies and associations in Europe. In the time of transition and cultural intersection between West and East in Vietnam at the end of 19th and early 20th century, Truong had such a grandiose career that the French scholar J. Bouchot called him \"the only scholar in Indochina and even the modern China \" In Vietnam, Truong was praised as the most excellent language and cultural researcher. Though there are some ideas criticizing him for having cooperated with the French colonialists, no one ever doubts his excellent learning and profound knowledge, as well as his invaluable contributions to Vietnam's cultural development during the early days of modern civilization. There have been many research books and biographical as well as critic books about Truong Vinh Ky, his life and his works. All were published and have been reprinted many times in many ways for many later researchers to get to understand him.\n\nIn the cultural area, Truong Vinh Ky was admired greatly as a scholar with broad and profound knowledge in various fields of study, both in social and natural sciences. He had considerable achievements in collecting, transcription and translation from foreign languages into Vietnamese. Some of his best-known transcription and translation works include Truyện Kiều (The Story of Miss Kieu), Lục Vân Tiên (written in Chinese characters as 陸雲僊, by Nguyen Dinh Chieu), \"Phan Trần\", and \"Gia huấn ca\" (Book of Familial Educating), \"Lục súc tranh công\" (The Six Animals Vying for Services).\n\n"}
{"id": "24549907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24549907", "title": "Radek Fukala", "text": "Radek Fukala\n\nRadek Fukala (born 1963 in Karviná, Moravian-Silesian Region of the Czech Republic) is a Czech historian.\n\nHe is a Silesian, who graduated at University of Ostrava. He gained Ph.D. from Masaryk University. In 2002 he passed his habilitation at Charles University in Prague.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41692773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41692773", "title": "Rani Dhavan Shankardass", "text": "Rani Dhavan Shankardass\n\nRani Dhavan Shankardass is an Indian social historian and global expert on prison reform. She is the Secretary General of Penal Reform and Justice Association (PRAJA) and the President of Penal Reform International.\n\nDr Dhavan Shankardass was born in Allahabad, India to parents from the North West Frontier Province and schooled in Allahabad, Nainital, and Lucknow. She read History and Political Science at the University of Allahabad. She has five graduate degrees across the academic divisions of Social, Political and Economic History, including two MA degrees from University of Allahabad and University of Pennsylvania, MSc and M.Litt degrees from Girton College, University of Cambridge and a PhD from School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London. She began her career as a lecturer in Political Science at Kamla Nehru College, University of Delhi, India. Her earlier work was focused primarily on political history. Subsequently, she became a senior research fellow at the Centre for Contemporary Studies, Nehru Memorial Museum and Library, New Delhi, India. During this time, her interests gradually moved to issues relating to social change and the factors that have facilitated or hindered such change in colonial and postcolonial India. Her first project at Teen Murti House was on debt bondage (bonded labour), a pervasive form of slavery across India. Her next project was on the history and workings of the prison system in India. Her current research area continues to be on penal reform across South Asia with a specific focus on the mental health and care of women in prisons and custodial justice.\n\nShe is a leading figure in prison reform and prisoner rehabilitation movements in various parts of the world, and regularly designs and oversees workshops that train judicial and law enforcement officials on crucial developments in penal reform policy and human rights centred approaches to the penal system. She speaks extensively at conferences and seminars as well as at the United Nations and has appeared as an expert on punishment and prisons on numerous radio and TV shows. She is the author and coauthor of numerous books on criminal justice, prisons and penal reform and has contributed articles on these issues to numerous newspapers and journals, including \"Times of India\", \"Daily Telegraph\", \"Economic and Political Weekly\", \"Seminar\", and \"Social Welfare\". In 2014 she spoke at the Jaipur Literature Festival in two sessions, \"Prisons of the Mind\" and \"The Political Imagination\". During her tenure as a Nehru Fellow she was invited to join the Board of Penal Reform International, a non-government organisation based in the UK, with consultative status with the United Nations. She served as its Chairperson from 2006 to 2011 and currently serves as its Honorary President.\n\nDr Dhavan Shankardass has written extensively on social history and human rights. Notable published works include \"The First Congress Raj: Provincial Autonomy in Bombay\" (Macmillan, 1982), \"Vallabhbhai Patel: Power and Organization in Indian Politics\" (Orient Longman, 1986), \"Punishment and the Prison: Indian and International Perspectives\" (Sage, 2000) (an edited multi-disciplinary volume that spanned history, sociology, law, justice and gender), and \"Barred from Life and Scarred for Life: The Experiences of Women in the Criminal Justice System in India\" (PRAJA, 2004). Her most recent publications are \"Of Women Inside: Prison Voices from India\" (Routledge, 2011) and \"In Conflict and Custody: Therapeutic Counselling of Women\" (Sage, 2012). The books were launched together in the House of Lords at the British Parliament in 2012. and were introduced by Baroness Helena Kennedy and Baroness Vivien Stern. Both volumes complement each other: one sets out the trials and tribulations of women sent to prison, sometimes avoidably, and questions the role of the law on the subject, and the other suggests how those problems that relate exclusively to women in custody might be addressed. She is currently researching and working on the subject of ‘Children of Incarcerated Parents’ with a special focus on South Asia.\n\nIn 1996, she was awarded the prestigious Jawaharlal Nehru Fellowship for her work \"Prison, Punishment and Criminal Justice\".\n\nShe is the daughter of His Excellency Shanti Swaroop Dhavan, Governor of West Bengal and Indian High Commissioner (Ambassador) to the United Kingdom and the granddaughter of Rai Bahadur Bali Ram Dhavan of the North West Frontier Province, formerly of India. She is the wife of celebrated Indian lawyer Vijay Shankardass, whose clients have included His Royal Highness Nizam of Hyderabad, author Salman Rushdie, actor Michael Douglas, Amnesty International, Taj Hotels Resorts and Palaces, Penguin Books and Virgin Group.\n\nShe spends her time between her homes in New Delhi and London.\n"}
{"id": "19360340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19360340", "title": "Raquela Prywes", "text": "Raquela Prywes\n\nRaquela Prywes (Hebrew: רחלה פריבס; born Raquela Levy, 1924 in Jerusalem; died March, 1985) was a nurse in Israel, trained in midwifery, and obstetrics, at the Hadassah Medical Center. A ninth generation Jerusalemite, Raquela is the chief protagonist in the eponymous book, written by Ruth Gruber, who, in 1978, spent a year in Israel writing the life story. The book won the National Jewish Book Award in 1979 for Best Book on Israel, \"Raquela: A Woman of Israel\", written by Ruth Gruber.\n\nRaquela graduated nursing at Hadassah Hospital, on Mount Scopus, years prior to the founding of the State of Israel.\n\nAfter Jordan seized East Jerusalem, in 1948, she worked in the baby's ward at Hadassah Hospital 'A'. She was chosen by her superiors for special duties, being sent to the British Atlit detainee camp and on Cyprus internment camps, deliver babies and care for mothers, in the worst of conditions. On her return from Cyprus, she helped build the nursery wards in Jerusalem and, later, in Beersheba.\n\nShe married Dr. Arik Brzezinski, a prominent obstetrician, and worked closely with him. They had two sons, Amnon and Raphael. Amnon later became head of the Patricia and Russell Fleischman Women's Health Center, and Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, at the Hadassah Medical Center, in Jerusalem.\n\nAfter his death, she married her late husband's friend and colleague, then a widower, Dr. Moshe Prywes (assistant dean of the Hadassah– Hebrew University Medical Center, and later Dean of the Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, and after whom the Moshe Prywes Center for Medical Education, Ben Gurion University of the Negev, is named.) She helped deliver Jewish and Bedouin babies at the new Beersheva hospital, and saved the life of Sarah, Golda Meir's only daughter, who almost died from eclampsia.\n\nRaquela Prywes died in March, 1985, at the age of 60 years.\n\n"}
{"id": "23487815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23487815", "title": "Roman architectural revolution", "text": "Roman architectural revolution\n\nThe Roman architectural revolution, also known as the Concrete revolution, was the widespread use in Roman architecture of the previously little-used architectural forms of the arch, vault, and dome. For the first time in history, their potential was fully exploited in the construction of a wide range of civil engineering structures, public buildings, and military facilities. These included amphitheatres, aqueducts, baths, bridges, circuses, dams, domes, harbours, and temples.\n\nA crucial factor in this development that saw a trend to monumental architecture was the invention of Roman concrete (also called opus caementicium), which led to the liberation of the shape from the dictate of the traditional materials of stone and brick. \n\nThe development of Roman architecture, however, did not remain limited to these new forms and materials. An unrelated process of architectural innovation continued unabated, which, although less conspicuous, proved their usefulness for solving structural problems and found their way permanently into Western architecture, such as the lintel arch, the independent corbel, and the metal-tie.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58166295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58166295", "title": "Signora Violante", "text": "Signora Violante\n\nSignora Violante (1682 – 1741) was a rope-dancer, acrobat, commedia dell'arte actor and theatre company manager.\n\nSignora Violante was Italian or French, and was active as a performer from 1720. She was married to an Italian, Senor Violante, a rope-slider. Neither her maiden or married name are known for certain, and she and her husband are also sometimes named as Larini in contemporary newspaper accounts. She is also known as Madam Violante and Mrs Violante in 18th century sources.\n\nHer children were among the performers in her troupe. Her daughter Rosina Violante, a dancer, later married dancer George Richard Estcourt Luppino, son of dancers George Charles Luppino and Charlotte Mary Estcourt, and forebear of the Lupino family of performers and designers.\n\nViolante's first appearances in London, in the spring of 1720, were working with De Grimbergue's French company at the King's Theatre and Lincoln's Inn Fields theatres. Her performances in these shows included rope dancing with flags, sometimes advertised in bills as \"The Flourishing of the Colours\"; her rope-dancing inspired a poem published in \"Oxoniensis\" on 6 June 1720\".\" Another reported act of Violante's was, while on the slack rope, to dance a minuet, with a child hanging from each ankle. In 1727 Violante is said to have danced on the tight rope with swords tied to her legs, a child balanced on her shoulders, and two children on her ankles.\n\nViolante returned to London in 1726 to the Haymarket Theatre, where she stayed for a season of 70 nights, performing acrobatics, dancing and pantomime, between 2 November 1726 and 28 April 1727. She was in Dublin in 1727, and returned to London's Haymarket Theatre with a new company to perform regularly from 23 October to 6 May 1728, including a pantomime \"The Rivals\" in which she featured in the role of Colombina. The company performed \"The Rivals\" in Bristol in the summer of 1728, where her husband Senor Violante slid on a rope across the River Servern, from St Vincent's Rocks in Clifton, a distance of 550 yards in thirty seconds, before a crowd of spectators.\n\nViolante had a large impact on the Dublin theatre scene of the early 18th century. She worked in Dublin for three theatre seasons, during which time, in 1730, Violante and her principal dancer Lalauze established the Dame Street Booth, a rival to the Theatre Royal, Smock Alley in Dublin.\n\nShe then travelled to Edinburgh where she lived in Carruber's Close. In Edinburgh, magistrates refused her company permission to perform in their jurisdiction. after this, her company performed throughout Britain, and it is possible they also performed in Paris. One show was a pirated version of The Beggar's Opera, the cast of which included Peg Woffington, whom Violante 'discovered' as a child, carrying water to her mother's wash-house, and subsequently coached.\n\nIn 1735 Signora Violante settled in Edinburgh, where she continued to perform as a rope-dancer, and ran a dance school. Signora Violante died in 1741.\n"}
{"id": "34817499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34817499", "title": "Society for Historical Archaeology", "text": "Society for Historical Archaeology\n\nThe Society for Historical Archaeology (SHA) is a professional organization of scholars concerned with the archaeology of the modern world (15th century-present). Founded in 1967, the SHA promotes scholarly research and the dissemination of knowledge pertaining to historical archaeology. The society is specifically interested in the identification, excavation, interpretation, and conservation of sites and materials on land and underwater. It is the largest such organization in the world and the third largest anthropological organization in the United States.\n\nAccording to its Constitution, \n\nThe SHA’s “Ethical Principles of The Society for Historical Archaeology” provide further guidance to society members, historical archaeologists, and those in allied fields regarding one’s ethical obligations to the archaeological record, colleagues, employers, and the public.\n\nWith the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 and the United States’ approaching Bicentennial, the mid-twentieth century witnessed a renewed interest in colonial America and a growing scholarly interest in the archaeology of the modern world. These trends encouraged the development of a professional organization devoted to the study and practice of historical archaeology.\n\nAt the 1958 Annual Meeting of the American Anthropological Association in Washington, D.C., John L. Cotter chaired a symposium on the Role of Archaeology in Historical Research. Cotter, Edward B. Jelks, Edward Larrabee, and Stanley South subsequently discussed forming a society devoted to historical archaeology. Jelks, following a second such discussion at the meeting of the Central States Anthropological Society in St. Louis in 1966, began to plan an “International Conference on Historical Archaeology.\" That conference was held January 6–7, 1967, at Southern Methodist University in Dallas, Texas. The conference drew 112 attendees, with 17 papers by scholars including Charles Cleland, James Deetz, Bernard Fontana, J.C. \"Pinky\" Harrington, and Roderick Sprague. The SHA was officially incorporated on April 1, 1968, in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, and John Cotter was elected to serve as its first president.\n\nSHA publishes its peer-reviewed journal \"Historical Archaeology\" quarterly with online publication of Book Reviews and Technical Briefs. The SHA reader series, \"Perspectives from Historical Archaeology\", offers subject matter and regional selections of articles published in \"Historical Archaeology\". \n\nThe SHA Newsletter is published quarterly in March, June, October, and December. The SHA also maintains a blog where members and non-members read, share, and discuss topics posted by SHA leadership.\n\nThe Society presents several awards, medals and travel stipends yearly, including:\n\n\nAfter the 1967 conference in Dallas, the Society’s first annual meeting took place in 1968 in Williamsburg, Virginia. The table below shows the meeting locations and dates since 2007. \nThe 52nd annual meeting of the SHA will be held January 9-12, 2019 in Saint Charles, Missouri. \nThe society in association with the Advisory Council on Underwater Archaeology also organises the annual Conference on Historical and Underwater Archaeology which takes place every January for the delivery of papers and symposia as well as social and professional interaction.\n\nThe 2018-2019 SHA leadership is as follows: \n\n\nHistorical archaeology\n\n"}
{"id": "4937124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4937124", "title": "Society for the History of Technology", "text": "Society for the History of Technology\n\nThe Society for the History of Technology, or SHOT, is the primary professional society for historians of technology. SHOT was founded in 1958 in the United States, and it has since become an international society with members \"from some thirty-five countries throughout the Americas, Europe, Asia, and Africa.\" SHOT owes its existence largely to the efforts of Professor Melvin Kranzberg (1917-1995). SHOT co-founders include John B. Rae, Carl W. Condit, Thomas P. Hughes, and Eugene S. Ferguson. SHOT's flagship publication is the journal \"Technology and Culture\", published by the Johns Hopkins University Press. Kranzberg served as editor of \"Technology and Culture\" until 1981, and was succeeded as editor by Robert C. Post until 1995, and John M. Staudenmaier from 1996 until 2010. The current editor of \"Technology and Culture\" is Suzanne Moon at the University of Oklahoma. SHOT is an affiliate of the American Council of Learned Societies and the American Historical Association and publishes a joint booklet series with the AHA, \"Historical Perspectives on Technology, Society, and Culture,\" under the co-editorship of Pamela O. Long, Robert C. Post, and Asif Azam Siddiqi. Pamela O. Long is the recipient of a MacArthur Foundation \"Genius Grant\" for 2014.\n\nThe history of technology was traditionally linked to economic history and history of science, but its interactions are now equally strong with environmental history, gender history, business history, and labor history. SHOT annually awards two book prizes, the Edelstein Prize and the Sally Hacker Prize, as well as the Kranzberg Dissertation Fellowship and the Brooke Hindle Postdoctoral Fellowship. Its highest award is the Leonardo da Vinci Medal. Recipients of the medal include Kranzberg, Ferguson, Post, Staudenmaier, Bart Hacker, and Brooke Hindle. In 1968 Kranzberg was also instrumental in the founding of a sister society, the International Committee for the History of Technology (ICOHTEC) in 1968. The two societies complement each other.\n\nThe Society for the History of Technology is dedicated to the historical study of technology and its relations with politics, economic, labor, business, the environment, public policy, science, and the arts. The society now numbers around 1500 members, and holds its meeting at a non-North-American venue every third year. SHOT also sponsors smaller conferences focused on specialized topics, often jointly with other scholarly societies and organizations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "286110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=286110", "title": "Sven Aggesen", "text": "Sven Aggesen\n\nSvend Aggesen (or \"Sven\"; also known as \"Aggessøn\", \"Aggesøn\" or \"Aagesen\", in Latin \"Sveno Aggonis\"; born around 1140 to 1150, death unknown) is the author of \"Brevis historia regum Dacie\", one of the first attempts to write a coherent history of Denmark covering the period 300AD-1185AD. Only the \"Chronicon Roskildense\" may precede Aggesen's efforts.\n\nSven Aggesen was born into a magnate family which had several well-known members.\n\nThe earliest known family member that we know of with some certainty is Svend's great-grandfather, Thrugot, who was married to Thorgunna, daughter of Vagn Aggesøn, a grandson of the legendary Palne Toke. Thrugot and Thorgunna had two sons, Sven and Vagn. \n\nSven Thrugotsøn (or Thorgunnasøn) had four sons. One, probably the eldest, Asser, was the first Archbishop of Lund (1104–1137) and also the first Archbishop of Scandinavia. Another, probably the youngest, Sven, was a canon in Lund, later in Viborg and even later (1132), bishop in Viborg. The third, Eskil, we know little about, but the last, Christiern Svensøn, is Svend Aagesen’s grandfather.\n\nChristiern Svensøn and his son Agge, who was Svend Aggesen’s father, fought during the civil war following Knud Lavard’s murder, on King Erik II Emune's side and Svend writes in \"Historia brevis regum Dacie,\" about their participating in these battles.\n\nIt is likely that Sven was educated at a monastery in Denmark, but given the knowledge of classical antiquity, that he displays through his writings, there is little doubt he received a more comprehensive education elsewhere, probably in one of the big Church-schools in France. Notable in the preface of \"Historia brevis regum Dacie,\" he mentions that reading the works of Latin historians was something that took up much of his time. On that note he writes, with sadness, that similar works did not exist for Danish kings, notable persons and events.\n\nLike his forefathers, he joined King Valdemar I’s housecarls, known as \"Thinglid\" – who, it is said, had originated with King Canute the Great's corps. As a \"Thinglid\", he was with King Valdemar I and later with King Canute VI during their numerous war expeditions, of which he mentions a few personal details in \"Historia brevis regum Dacie.\"\n\nBecause of his comment about Valdemar I’s Queen, Sophia, it seems that he might have been close to the King's court. Whether that was because of personal status or because of his forefathers' status, is unknown.\n\nHis service with the King does not seem to have diminished his desire to write.\n\nThe first work we know he wrote is a retelling of \"Witherlogh\" (known today in Danish as \"Lejrloven\" or \"Krigerloven\" or in English as \"Lejrlaw\" or \"Warriorlaw\"). It is also called \"Lex Castrensis\", which is an old punishment and compensation law mostly applied to soldiers in the King's service.\n\nThis work was probably written in 1181–1182, and we read in the preface of this little work that Aggesen was already considering much bigger projects, because he mentioned his desire to write a list of the Kings of Denmark. It is thought that he did do this work, a necessary work in writing the history of Denmark, because a 13th-century writer used this list, called \"Genealogia Regum Daniae\". Today the original list exists only as fragments.\n\nHowever his most famous work is \"Brevis Historia Regum Dacie\", entitled \"Compendiosa regum Daniæ historia\" in one manuscript, thought to have been finished in 1186 or 1187 (the last event is described in 1185), a work covering Danish history beginning with the legendary King Skjold from around 300 to 1185.\n\nWhether Svend knew Saxo Grammaticus by more than name, is an often discussed subject. Some comments in \"Brevis Historia Regum Daniae\" can be interpreted to support this view. Some researchers go as far as to say that they might have gone to school in France together, they both served various Kings of Denmark simultaneously, went on those Kings' many war expeditions and, as such, some of their writings are firsthand accounts. That is likely to be the case for Sven, but there is very little evidence to back this connection up for Saxo. There exists no direct evidence that they knew each other than by name.\n\n"}
{"id": "11440886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11440886", "title": "Thongchai Winichakul", "text": "Thongchai Winichakul\n\nThongchai Winichakul (; ; IPA:), is Professor Emeritus of Southeast Asian History at the University of Wisconsin–Madison. He is currently a Chief Senior Researcher at the Institute of Developing Economies. He is of Sino Thai descent. Thongchai has had a major impact on the concept of Thai nationalism. His best-known academic work is his book, \"Siam Mapped\", which critiqued existing theories of Thai historiography. In its Japanese translation, the book won the Grand Prize of the 16th Asian Pacific Awards from the Asian Affairs Research Council. Thongchai was named to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2003. He was the President for the Association for Asian Studies in 2013.\n\nThongchai was a student organizer and political activist while still in high school. He became even more involved in pro-democracy movements while in his first two years as an undergraduate at Thammasat University in Bangkok. Student and labor organizing had blossomed during and after the popular uprising of October 14, 1973. But following the return of disempowered military dictator Thanom Kittikachorn and the resignation of Prime Minister Seni Pramoj, Thongchai and other student leaders organized a fresh wave of protests centered at Thammasat University. These culminated in a large rally that grew through the night of October 5, 1976. The next morning, October 6, the Thai military surrounded the Thammasat campus and attacked the students in what has been described as the \"Thammasat University massacre\" in which at least 46 people were killed, some even being raped, hung, or burned to death. Many students escaped. Thousands of students were arrested, though 19 were eventually imprisoned, including Thongchai. Various organizations, including Amnesty International, advocated for his release as a prisoner of conscience. He was released on September 16, 1978 and allowed to return to finish his education at Thammasat on the condition that he was not involved in further political activities. He later went to Sydney, Australia, for his graduate education.\n\nThongchai completed his Bachelor of Arts degree with first class honors from Thammasat University in 1981. He received his master's degree with honors from University of Sydney in 1984. In 1988, he was conferred his doctoral degree from the same university. Subsequently, he returned to Bangkok to lecture at the Thammasat University until 1991.\n\nHe was then appointed assistant professor at the University of Wisconsin. He has stayed in Madison, being promoted associate professor in 1995, and full professor in 2001. He is assigned to both the Department of History and the Center for Southeast Asian Studies. Among other positions, he served as director of the Center for Southeast Asian Studies from 1997 to 1999, and director of graduate studies of the Department of History from 2008. He retired and became emeritus in 2016.\n\nSince 1991, he has been a member of the Association for Asian Studies (AAS), chairing its Southeast Asia Council and serving on its executive board in 1996/97. In 2012, he was Vice President, in 2013 President of the AAS. Moreover, he was a Principal Research Fellow at the Asia Research Institute, National University of Singapore from 2010 to 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27209056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27209056", "title": "Timeline of Syrian history", "text": "Timeline of Syrian history\n\nThis is a timeline of Syrian history, comprising important legal and territorial changes and political events in Syria and its predecessor states. To read about the background to these events, see History of Syria.\n\nMassacre of Aleppo\n1860 Mount Lebanon civil war\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5231099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5231099", "title": "William Archibald Dunning", "text": "William Archibald Dunning\n\nWilliam Archibald Dunning (12 May 1857 – 25 August 1922) was an American historian and political scientist at Columbia University noted for his work on the Reconstruction era of the United States. He founded the informal Dunning School of interpreting the Reconstruction era through his own writings and the Ph.D. dissertations of his numerous students. Historian Howard K. Beale was a leader of the \"revisionist\" school of the 1930s that broke with the Dunning interpretation. Beale says the Dunning School broke new ground by escaping the political polemics of the day and used \"meticulous and thorough research [...] in an effort to determine the truth rather than prove a thesis.\" Beale states that, \"The emphasis of the Dunning school was upon the harm done to the South by Radical Reconstruction and on the sordid political and economic motives behind Radicalism.\" However, Dunning has also been criticized for his \"blatant use of the discipline of history for reactionary ends\" and for offering \"scholarly legitimacy to the disenfranchisement of southern blacks and to the Jim Crow system.\"\n\nBorn in Plainfield, New Jersey, Dunning was the son of a successful businessman who enjoyed the classics. Dunning earned degrees at Columbia University (B.A. 1881, M.A. 1884, and Ph.D. 1885). He spent a year in Berlin studying European history under Heinrich von Treitschke.\n\nSoon after his return and beginning his academic career, in 1888 he married Charlotte E. Loomis. They had no children. She died in 1917.\n\nDunning began teaching at Columbia and was steadily promoted on the academic ladder (fellow, lecturer, instructor, adjunct professor, and full professor); in 1903 he was appointed as the Francis Lieber Professor of History and Political Philosophy.\n\nHe published his PhD dissertation, \"The Constitution of the United States in Civil War and Reconstruction: 1860–1867\" (1897), at age 40 after he had been teaching for several years.\n\nHis scholarly essays, collected in \"Essays on the Civil War and Reconstruction and Related Topics,\" (1897), included work that explained the legal basis for the destruction of slavery, an institution he opposed. His survey \"Reconstruction, Political and Economic: 1865–1877\" (1907), for the \"American Nation\" series, set the tone. The \"Essays\" were path-breaking. Dunning believed that his \"Reconstruction\" book was too superficial. He felt that it had distracted him from his major work on the history of political theory.\n\nDunning had a dual role in history and political science. He was a leading expert in the history of political thought, as expressed in his masterful trilogy: \"A History of Political Theories: Ancient and Medieval\" (1902), \"From Luther to Montesquieu\" (1905), and \"From Rousseau to Spencer\" (1920).\n\nAlthough his health was poor after 1903, Dunning wrote numerous scholarly articles and book reviews for the \"American Historical Review\" and the \"Political Science Quarterly\", which he edited from 1894 to 1903. Dunning was a founder and long-time activist of the American Historical Association, becoming AHA president in 1913. He served as the president of the American Political Science Association in 1922.\n\nEvaluating his contributions in 2000, Smith says Dunning was far more important as a graduate teacher than as a research scholar. Columbia was a leading producer of PhDs, and Dunning directed much graduate work in U.S. history and in European political thought. His students included men who became leading scholars and academic entrepreneurs, such as Charles Merriam, Harry Elmer Barnes, James Wilford Garner and Carlton J. H. Hayes. He also mentored C. Mildred Thompson (1881-1975), the history professor who became dean at Vassar College. Thompson drafted the charter for UNESCO (the United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization), and worked for civil rights in Atlanta.\n\nDunning gave lifelong support to his students, providing continuous encouragement in their careers. They honored him with a Festschrift in 1914, \"Studies in Southern History and Politics Inscribed to William Archibald Dunning . . . by His Former Pupils the Authors\" (1914)\n\nMany Southerners (and some Northerners) took PhDs in History under Dunning and returned to the South for academic careers, where they dominated the major history departments. Those who wrote dissertations on Reconstruction included James W. Garner, Walter Lynwood Fleming, J. G. de Roulhac Hamilton, Charles W. Ramsdell, C. Mildred Thompson, William Watson Davis, and Thomas S. Staple. They comprised the informal \"Dunning School\". Their interpretation of post-Civil War Reconstruction was the dominant theory taught in American universities through much of the first half of the 20th century. Bradley says, \"The Dunning school condemned Reconstruction as a conspiracy by vindictive radical Republicans to subjugate southern whites at bayonet point, using federal troops to prop up corrupt state regimes led by an unholy trinity of carpetbaggers, scalawags, and freedmen.\" Bradley notes that the Dunning interpretation in the 1930s and 1940s also \"received compelling treatment in such popular works as Claude Bowers’s \"The Tragic Era\" and Margaret Mitchell’s \"Gone with the Wind\"—both the best-selling novel and the blockbuster film.\"\n\nAccording to Dunning, Reconstruction's players include the \"carpetbaggers\", particularly new white arrivals from the North, whom the Dunning School portrayed as greedy interlopers exploiting the South and dominating the Republican Party; the \"scalawags\", native southern whites collaborating with the Republicans; and the freedmen, whom the Dunning School portrayed as tools of the carpetbaggers with little independent voice. He was sympathetic to the white Southerners, whom they saw as being stripped of their rights after 1865 by a vengeful North. They assumed the black vote was controlled by carpetbaggers.\n\nMcRary says Dunning and his followers portrayed former planters, the elite political, social and economic class, as honorable people with the South's best interests in mind.\n\nDunning was a Democrat; like most historians of his period, he denounced the impeachment of President Andrew Johnson. Dunning wrote from the point of view of the northern Democrats and portrayed the Radical Republicans as men who violated American traditions and were motivated by vengeance after the American Civil War.\n\nW.E.B. Du Bois led the criticism of the Dunning School, taking it to task in the introduction to his masterwork Black Reconstruction. Historian Eric Foner, following in the tradition of Du Bois, writes that the Dunning School \"offered scholarly legitimacy to the disenfranchisement of southern blacks and to the Jim Crow system that was becoming entrenched as they were writing,\" and that \"the alleged horrors of Reconstruction helped freeze the mind of the white South in bitter opposition to any change in the region’s racial system.\" Foner adds that \"the fundamental flaw in the Dunning School was the authors’ deep racism,\" and that \"racism shaped not only their interpretations of history but their research methods and use of historical evidence.\"\n\nFor example, Dunning referred to the freedmen as \"barbarous\" and defended the racist black codes as \"a conscientious and straightforward attempt to bring some sort of order\" out of the aftermath of war and emancipation. Dunning wrote that the freedmen were not \"on the same social, moral and intellectual plane with the whites\" and that \"restrictions in respect to bearing arms, testifying in court, and keeping labor contracts were justified by the well-established traits and habits of the negroes[.]\" \nIn \"Black Reconstruction in America\" (1935), Du Bois characterized Dunning's \"Reconstruction, Political and Economic\" as a \"standard, anti-Negro\" text. Du Bois noted, \"Dunning admits that \"The legislation of the reorganized governments, under cover of police regulations and vagrancy laws, had enacted severe discrimination against the freedmen in all the common civil rights.\" \n\nDunning's followers generally rejected Du Bois and his Marxist interpretation of the history of Reconstruction. Publishing in the midst of the Great Depression, DuBois believed that the poor, both black and white, had common cause against the rich. Part of his analysis of Reconstruction was an assessment of how the classes were aligned, and how the white elite struggled to keep power, withholding it from blacks and poor whites both.\n\nAfter 1950, the Dunning School was attacked by a new generation of historians. In keeping with European ideas about history \"from the bottom up\" and the agency of all classes of people, together with new research, they documented the place of African Americans at the center of Reconstruction. The revisionist view was expanded and revised by Eric Foner and others. They castigated Dunning for his harsh treatment of Blacks in his \"Reconstruction\" (1907). Muller noted that Dunning was equally harsh on all the major players: \"Dunning's antipathy in \"Reconstruction\" is generously heaped on all groups, regardless of race, color, creed, or sectional origins.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40903463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40903463", "title": "William George Searle", "text": "William George Searle\n\nWilliam George Searle was a 19th-century historian and fellow of Queens' College, Cambridge, on which he published a history.\n\nHis works include \"Ingulf and the Historia Croylandensis\", \"Onomasticon Anglo-Saxonicum: A List of Anglo-Saxon Proper\" and \"Anglo-Saxon Bishops, Kings and Nobles\".\n"}
{"id": "8178628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8178628", "title": "William Mackay Mackenzie", "text": "William Mackay Mackenzie\n\nWilliam Mackay Mackenzie (1871–1952) was a Scottish historian, archaeologist and writer, who was Secretary of the Royal Commission on Ancient and Historical Monuments of Scotland between 1913 and 1935, and also an expert on folk-lore. He was born in Cromarty, graduated with an MA from the University of Edinburgh and taught at Glasgow Academy between 1896 and 1912. He also had a DLitt.\n\nIn 1925-1926 he was Rhind lecturer in Archaeology at the University of Edinburgh and during the Second World War acted as head of the department of Ancient Scottish History. In 1942 he was appointed to be a member of the Commission where he had formerly been Secretary. He was a Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries of London (FSA) and was made an honorary Doctor of Laws in 1949 at Edinburgh. As well as writing on medieval history, he published a major edition of Dunbar's poems. His younger brother, Donald Alexander Mackenzie, was also a prolific writer on religion, mythology and anthropology.\n\nA portrait of Mackenzie by David Foggie, painted in 1914, is held by the National Gallery of Scotland but is rarely displayed.\n\n"}
