{"id": "454446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=454446", "title": "Abstraction (mathematics)", "text": "Abstraction (mathematics)\n\nAbstraction in mathematics is the process of extracting the underlying essence of a mathematical concept, removing any dependence on real world objects with which it might originally have been connected, and generalizing it so that it has wider applications or matching among other abstract descriptions of equivalent phenomena. Two of the most highly abstract areas of modern mathematics are category theory and model theory.\n\nMany areas of mathematics began with the study of real world problems, before the underlying rules and concepts were identified and defined as abstract structures. For example, geometry has its origins in the calculation of distances and areas in the real world; algebra started with methods of solving problems in arithmetic.\n\nAbstraction is an ongoing process in mathematics and the historical development of many mathematical topics exhibits a progression from the concrete to the abstract. Take the historical development of geometry as an example; the first steps in the abstraction of geometry were made by the ancient Greeks, with Euclid's Elements being the earliest extant documentation of the axioms of plane geometry—though Proclus tells of an earlier axiomatisation by Hippocrates of Chios. In the 17th century Descartes introduced Cartesian co-ordinates which allowed the development of analytic geometry. Further steps in abstraction were taken by Lobachevsky, Bolyai, Riemann, and Gauss who generalised the concepts of geometry to develop non-Euclidean geometries. Later in the 19th century mathematicians generalised geometry even further, developing such areas as geometry in n dimensions, projective geometry, affine geometry and finite geometry. Finally Felix Klein's \"Erlangen program\" identified the underlying theme of all of these geometries, defining each of them as the study of properties invariant under a given group of symmetries. This level of abstraction revealed connections between geometry and abstract algebra.\n\nThe advantages of abstraction are :\n\n\nOne disadvantage of abstraction is that highly abstract concepts can be difficult to learn. A degree of mathematical maturity and experience may be needed for conceptual assimilation of abstractions. One of the underlying principles of the Montessori approach to mathematics education is encouraging children to move from concrete examples to abstract thinking.\n\nBertrand Russell, in \"The Scientific Outlook\" (1931), writes that \"Ordinary language is totally unsuited for expressing what physics really asserts, since the words of everyday life are not sufficiently abstract. Only mathematics and mathematical logic can say as little as the physicist means to say.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "5683590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5683590", "title": "Active intellect", "text": "Active intellect\n\nThe active intellect (Latin: \"intellectus agens\"; also translated as agent intellect, active intelligence, active reason, or productive intellect) is a concept in classical and medieval philosophy. The term refers to the formal (\"morphe\") aspect of the intellect (\"nous\"), in accordance with the theory of hylomorphism. \n\nThe nature of the active intellect was the subject of intense discussion in medieval philosophy, as various Muslim, Jewish and Christian thinkers sought to reconcile their commitment to Aristotle's account of the body and soul to their own theological commitments. At stake in particular was in what way Aristotle's account of an incorporeal soul might contribute to understanding of the nature of eternal life.\n\nThe idea is first encountered in Aristotle's \"De Anima\", Book III. Following is the translation of one of those passages (\"De Anima\", Bk. III, ch. 5, 430a10-25) by Joe Sachs, with some notes about the Greek:\n...since in nature one thing is the material (\"hulē\") for each kind \"(genos)\" (this is what is in potency all the particular things of that kind) but it is something else that is the causal and productive thing by which all of them are formed, as is the case with an art in relation to its material, it is necessary in the soul (\"psuchē\") too that these distinct aspects be present; \nthe one sort is intellect (\"nous\") by becoming all things, the other sort by forming all things, in the way an active condition (\"hexis\") like light too makes the colors that are in potency be at work as colors (\"to phōs poiei ta dunamei onta chrōmata energeiai chrōmata\"). \nThis sort of intellect [which is like light in the way it makes potential things work as what they are] is separate, as well as being without attributes and unmixed, since it is by its thinghood a being-at-work, for what acts is always distinguished in stature above what is acted upon, as a governing source is above the material it works on.\nKnowledge (\"epistēmē\"), in its being-at-work, is the same as the thing it knows, and while knowledge in potency comes first in time in any one knower, in the whole of things it does not take precedence even in time.\nThis does not mean that at one time it thinks but at another time it does not think, but when separated it is just exactly what it is, and this alone is deathless and everlasting (though we have no memory, because this sort of intellect is not acted upon, while the sort that is acted upon is destructible), and without this nothing thinks.\n\nThe passage tries to explain \"how the human intellect passes from its original state, in which it does not think, to a subsequent state, in which it does.\" He inferred that the energeia/dunamis distinction must also exist in the soul itself. Aristotle says that the passive intellect receives the intelligible forms of things, but that the active intellect is required to make the potential knowledge into actual knowledge, in the same way that light makes potential colors into actual colors. \n\nThe passage is often read together with \"Metaphysics\", Book XII, ch.7-10, where Aristotle also discusses the human mind and distinguishes between the active and passive intellects. In that passage Aristotle appears to equate the active intellect with the \"unmoved mover\" and God.\n\nSachs comments that the nature of the active intellect was \"the source of a massive amount of commentary and of fierce disagreement\"; elsewhere, chapter 5 of \"De Anima\" has been referred to as \"the most intensely studied sentences in the history of philosophy\". As Davidson remarks: \nJust what Aristotle meant by potential intellect and active intellect - terms not even explicit in the \"De anima\" and at best implied - and just how he understood the interaction between them remains moot. Students of the history of philosophy continue to debate Aristotle's intent, particularly the question whether he considered the active intellect to be an aspect of the human soul or an entity existing independently of man.\n\nGreek\n\nThe early Greek commentators on Aristotle, in particular Alexander of Aphrodisias and Themistius, gave several different interpretations of the distinction between the active and passive intellects. Some of them regarded the active intellect as a power external to the human mind, Alexander going so far as to identify it with God. \n\nLater, both these interpretations, Neoplatonist ones, and perhaps others, influenced the development of an important Arabic language philosophical literature, using the term \"'aql\" as the translation for \"nous\". This literature was later translated into, and commented upon, in Latin and Hebrew.\n\nJewish and Islamic\n\nAl-Farabi and Avicenna, and also the Jewish philosopher Maimonides, agreed with the \"external\" interpretation of active intellect, and held that the active intellect was the lowest of the ten emanations descending through the celestial spheres. Maimonides cited it in his definition of prophecy where \n\nProphecy is, in truth and reality, an emanation sent forth by the Divine Being through the medium of the Active Intellect, in the first instance to man's rational faculty, and then to his imaginative faculty.\n\nThe reason of the Islamic and Jewish Aristotelians for positing a single external Agent Intellect is that all (rational) human beings are considered by Aristotelians to possess or have access to a fixed and stable set of concepts, a unified correct knowledge of the universe. The only way that all human minds could possess the same correct knowledge is if they all had access to some central knowledge store, as terminals might have access to a mainframe computer . This mainframe is the Agent Intellect, the \"mind\" of the universe, which makes all other cognition possible.\n\nWestern Christian\n\nIn medieval and Renaissance Europe some thinkers, such as Siger of Brabant, adopted the interpretation of Averroes on every point, as did the later school of \"Paduan Averroists\". Thomas Aquinas elaborated on Aristotle's distinction between the active intellect and passive intellect in his \"Disputed Questions on the Soul\" and his commentary on Aristotle's \"De anima\", arguing, against Averroes, that the active intellect is part of the individual human personality. A third school, of \"Alexandrists\", rejected the argument linking the active intellect to the immortality of the soul, while hastening to add that they still believed in immortality as a matter of religious faith. (See Pietro Pomponazzi; Cesare Cremonini.)\n\nThe active intellect, in the sense described, is more properly called the Agent Intellect, as it is the force triggering intellection in the human mind and causing thoughts to pass from the potential to the actual. It must not be confused with the \"intellect in act\", which is the result of that triggering, and is more akin to the psychological term \"active knowledge\". Another term for the final result of intellection, that is to say a person's accumulated knowledge, is the \"acquired intellect\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58970799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58970799", "title": "Agency (psychology)", "text": "Agency (psychology)\n\nIn psychology, agents are goal-directed entities that are able to monitor their environment to select and perform efficient means-ends actions that are available in a given situation to achieve an intended goal. Agency, therefore, implies the ability to perceive and to change the environment of the agent (similarly to an intelligent agent designed by humans), but crucially, it also entails intentionality to represent the goal-state in the future, equifinal variability to be able to achieve the intended goal-state with different actions in different contexts, and rationality of actions in relation to their goal to produce the most efficient action available. Cognitive scientists and psychologists thoroughly investigated agency attribution in humans and non-human animals, since social cognitive mechanisms as communication, social learning, imitation or theory of mind presupposes the ability to identify agents and differentiate them from inanimate objects. This ability has also assumed to have a major effect on inferential and predictive processes of the observers of agents, because agentive entities are expected to perform autonomous behavior based on their current and previous knowledge and intentions, while inanimate objects are supposed to react to external physical forces.\n\nAlthough it is often confused, sensitivity to agency and the sense of agency are different concepts as the sensitivity to agency can be explained as a cognitive ability to identify agentive entities in the environment, while the sense of agency refers to the sense of control and sometimes to self-efficacy, which is a learnt belief of an individual about his or her own ability to succeed in specific situations.\n\nAccording to Carey and Spelke the cognitive models explaining specific perceptual and representational abilities, for instance the models of agency recognition, can be separated into two different classes. The \"feature-based models\" of agency assume that the perceptual input of an observer consist of featural and behavioral cues that help to identify agents. Previous studies show that even very young human observers are sensitive to\n\n\nHowever, neither of these cues are necessary and sufficient to identify an agent, since unfamiliar, novel entities like animated figures or robots without human features can elicit agency attribution in humans. Therefore, cognitive models belonging to the \"principle-based approaches\" were designed to describe how humans perceive agency assuming that the detection of agency is not a precondition, but a consequence of inferential processes about potentially agentive objects.\n\nThe theory of teleological stance proposes that from 12-month of age humans can apply the principle of rational action to determine, whether the observed entity is an agent or an inanimate object expecting that an agent behaves rationally in order to achieve its goal in a given situation. The theory assumes that the rationality principle makes observers able to relate the action, the represented goal-state and the current situational constraints to decide whether an object is an agent. For instance, if infants had learnt that an abstract, unfamiliar agent (an animated circle on a display) approaches another entity by jumping over an obstacle, when the obstacle had been removed, they expected a new, but highly rational behavior from the agent to approach the other entity via a straight pathway. In contrast, when infants were shown that the unfamiliar entity always made a detour when approaching its goal-object exhibiting non-justifiable behavior of jumping in the absence of an obstacle, they did not expect a rational of choice of behavior when the situational constraints changed.\n\nThese results and later empirical studies underpinned that agency recognition in humans can be explained by principle-based models rather than simple perceptual cues. As Gergely and Csibra concluded from 12-month of age humans “can take the teleological stance to interpret actions as means to goals, can evaluate the relative efficiency of means by applying the principle of rational action, and can generate systematic inferences to identify relevant aspects of the situation to justify the action as an efficient means even when these aspects are not directly visible to them\".\n\nIt was proposed that the concept of agency involves different kinds of agents represented by independent cognitive systems in humans and perhaps in non-human species as well. In humans, the species-specific social environment allows to identify agents either based on non-communicative observation of their rational, goal-directed actions or by relying on their communicative behavior which they exchange with other agents. In non-human species, however, none of these types of input information are necessary, since unfamiliar agents can be recognized simply on the basis of their perceptual abilities, which has context-dependent effect on their behavior even in the absence a visible goal-object that may be required to assess the efficiency of goal-approach.\n\nAccording to Gergely instrumental agents are intentional agents that exhibit actions in order to realize their goal states in the environment. The recognition of instrumental agents is investigated by numerous experiments in human infants, and also in non-human apes.\n\nIn contrast to instrumental agents, communicative agents are intentional agents whose actions are performed to bring about a specific change in the mental representations of the addressee, for instance by providing new and relevant information. The recognition of communicative agency may allow for the observer to predict that communicative information transfer can have a relevant effect on the behavior of the agent, even if the interacting agents and their communicative signals are unfamiliar.\n\nThe construal of navigational agency is based on the assumption that Leslie’s theory on agency implies two different types of distal sensitivity; distal sensitivity in space and distal sensitivity in time. While goal-directed instrumental agents need both of these abilities to represent a goal-state in the future and achieve it in a rational and efficient manner, navigational agents are supposed to have only perceptual abilities, that is a distal sensitivity in space to avoid collision with objects in their environments. A study contrasting the ability of dogs and human infants to attribute agency to unfamiliar self-propelled object showed that dogs – unlike human infants – may lack the capability to recognize instrumental agents, however they can identify navigational agents.\n\nThe ability to represent the efficiency of goal-directed actions of an instrumental agent may be a phylogenetically ancient core cognitive mechanism that can be found in non-human primates as well. Previous research provided evidence for this assumption showing that this sensitivity affects the expectations of cotton-top tamarins, rhesus macaques, and chimpanzees. Non-human apes are able to make inferences about the goal of an instrumental agent by taking the environmental constraints that can guide the agents’ actions into account. Moreover, it seems that non-human species like dogs can recognize contingent reactivity as an abstract of cue of agency, and respond to contingent agent significantly different in contrast to inanimate objects.\n\n"}
{"id": "42516859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42516859", "title": "Altruistic corporate social responsibility", "text": "Altruistic corporate social responsibility\n\nAltruistic corporate social responsibility is a form of corporate social responsibility (CSR) that goes beyond ethical behavior to voluntarily donate time and/or money towards certain groups of stakeholders, even if the time or money commitment sacrifices part of the business profitability. Altruistic CSR can be viewed as unethical from a business standpoint because it encourages Utilitarianism, a form of philanthropy in which \"ethical actions result in the greatest good for the greatest number,\" as well as going against the theory of Deontology.\n"}
{"id": "37566648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37566648", "title": "Anatman (Hinduism)", "text": "Anatman (Hinduism)\n\nAnātman in Sanskrit means that \"which is different from atman\" or \"non-self\". In Hinduism, the former definition is found in some texts, while in Buddhism, anātman or anattā means non-self.\n\nAccording to Śrī Candraśekhara Bhāratī of Śringeri, Shankara does not use the term anātman to mean non-soul or anti-soul. The Atman is formless and partless whose true nature cannot be perceived, while the anātman has form, has parts and whose nature can be perceived. Anātman, a creation of Brahman which is non-different from Brahman and has no existence apart from Brahman. To comprehend the difference between ātman and anātman is to become liberated.\n\nIn order to realise the self-existent eternal Atman, the seeker after Truth uses \"Neti, neti\", that is \"not this, not this\" on Anatman, to reach that which remains as Atman.\n\nBuddhists believe that there is no permanent underlying substance called self or soul (Atman) in human beings. They believe that anattā/anātman (non-self), impermanence and dukkha (suffering) are the three characteristics (trilakkhana) of all existence, and understanding of these three constitutes right understanding. \"The \"anātman\" doctrine was in no sense an addendum, since it was fundamental to the other two doctrines; that is, because there is no real human self, there is no duration in human experience; and because there is no duration in human experience, there is no genuine happiness.\"\n\nNāgārjuna's explication of the theory of anātman as śūnyatā (emptiness) in the \"Mūlamadhyamakakārikā\" was part of his restatement of the Buddha's Four Noble Truths as well as a rejection of the philosophies of the early Buddhist schools of the Sarvastivadins and the Sautrāntika.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54241836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54241836", "title": "Atrocities in the Congo Free State", "text": "Atrocities in the Congo Free State\n\nIn the period from 1885 to 1908, many well-documented atrocities were perpetrated in the Congo Free State (today the Democratic Republic of the Congo) which, at the time, was a colony under the personal rule of King Leopold II of Belgium. These atrocities were sometimes collectively referred to by European contemporaries as the \"Congo Horrors\", and were particularly associated with the labour policies used to collect natural rubber for export. Together with epidemic disease, famine, and a falling birth rate caused by these disruptions, the atrocities contributed to a sharp decline in the Congolese population. The magnitude of the population fall over the period is disputed, but it is thought to be between one and 15 million people.\n\nAt the Berlin Conference of 1884–85, the European powers allocated the Congo Basin region to a private charitable organisation run by Leopold II, who had long held ambitions for colonial expansion. The territory under Leopold's control exceeded and, amid financial problems, was ruled by a tiny cadre of white administrators drawn from across Europe. Initially, the colony proved unprofitable and insufficient, with the state always close to bankruptcy. The boom in demand for natural rubber, which was abundant in the territory, created a radical shift in the 1890s—to facilitate the extraction and export of rubber, all \"uninhabited\" land in the Congo was nationalised, with the majority distributed to private companies as concessions. Some was kept by the state. Between 1891 and 1906, the companies were allowed to do whatever they wished with almost no judicial interference, the result being that forced labour and violent coercion were used to collect the rubber cheaply and maximise profit. A native paramilitary army, the \"Force Publique\", was also created to enforce the labour policies. Individual workers who refused to participate in rubber collection could be killed and entire villages razed. Individual white administrators were also free to indulge their own sadism.\n\nDespite these atrocities, the main cause of the population decline was disease. A number of pandemics, notably African sleeping sickness, smallpox, swine influenza, and amoebic dysentery, ravaged indigenous populations. In 1901 alone it was estimated that 500,000 Congolese had died from sleeping sickness. Disease, famine and violence combined to reduce the birth-rate while excess deaths rose.\n\nThe severing of workers' hands achieved particular international notoriety. These were sometimes cut off by \"Force Publique\" soldiers who were made to account for every shot they fired by bringing back the hands of their victims. These details were recorded by Christian missionaries working in the Congo and caused public outrage when they were made known to the public in the United Kingdom, Belgium, the United States and elsewhere. An international campaign against the Congo Free State began in 1890 and reached its apogee after 1900 under the leadership of the British activist E. D. Morel. In 1908, as a result of international pressure, the Belgian government annexed the Congo Free State to form the Belgian Congo, and ended many of the systems responsible for the abuses. The size of the population decline during the period is the subject of extensive historiographical debate, and there is an open debate as to whether the atrocities constitute genocide.\n\nNeither the Belgian monarchy nor the Belgian state have ever apologized for the atrocities.\n\nEven before his accession to the throne of Belgium in 1865, the future king Leopold II began lobbying leading Belgian politicians to create a colonial empire in the Far East or Africa, which would expand and enhance Belgian prestige. Politically, however, colonisation was unpopular in Belgium as it was perceived as a risky and expensive gamble with no obvious benefit to the country and his many attempts to persuade politicians met with little success.\n\nDetermined to look for a colony for himself and inspired by recent reports from central Africa, Leopold began patronising a number of leading explorers, including Henry Morton Stanley. Leopold established the International African Association (\"Association internationale africaine\"), a \"charitable\" organisation to oversee the exploration and surveying of a territory based around the Congo River, with the stated goal of bringing humanitarian assistance and civilisation to the natives. In the Berlin Conference of 1884–85, European leaders officially recognised Leopold's control over the of the notionally-independent Congo Free State on the grounds that it would be a free trade area and buffer state between British and French spheres of influence. In the Free State, Leopold exercised total personal control without much delegation to subordinates. African chiefs played an important role in the administration by implementing government orders within their communities. Throughout much of its existence, however, Free State presence in the territory that it claimed was patchy, with its few officials concentrated in a number of small and widely dispersed \"stations\" which controlled only small amounts of hinterland. In 1900, there were just 3,000 white people in the Congo, of whom only half were Belgian. The colony was perpetually short of administrative staff and officials, who numbered between 700 and 1,500 during the period.\n\nIn the early years of the colony, much of the administration's attention was focused on consolidating its control by fighting the African peoples on the colony's periphery who resisted colonial rule. These included the tribes around the Kwango river, in the south-west, and the Uélé in the north-east. Some of the violence of the period can be attributed to African groups using colonial support to settle scores or white administrators acting without state approval.\n\nThe Free State was intended, above all, to be profitable for its investors and Leopold in particular. Its finances were frequently precarious. Early reliance on ivory exports did not make as much money as hoped and the colonial administration was frequently in debt, nearly defaulting on a number of occasions. A boom in demand for natural rubber in the 1890s, however, ended these problems as the colonial state was able to force Congolese males to work as forced labour collecting wild rubber which could then be exported to Europe and North America. The rubber boom transformed what had been an unexceptional colonial system before 1890 and led to significant profits. Exports rose from 580 to 3,740 tons between 1895 and 1900.\n\nIn order to facilitate economic extraction from the colony, land was divided up under the so-called Domain System (\"régime domanial\") in 1891. All vacant land, including forests and areas not under cultivation, was decreed to be \"uninhabited\" and thus the possession of the state, leaving many of the Congo's resources (especially rubber and ivory) under direct colonial ownership. Concessions were allocated to private companies. In the north, the \"Société Anversoise\" was given , while the Anglo-Belgian India Rubber Company (ABIR) was given a comparable territory in the south. The \"Compagnie du Katanga\" and \"Compagnie des Grands Lacs\" were given smaller concessions in the south and east respectively. Leopold kept a large proportion of territory under personal rule, known as the Crown Domain (\"Domaine de la Couronne\"), of which was added to the territory he already controlled under the Private Domain (\"Domaine privé\"). \"The major economic exploitation of the Congolese interior, therefore, lay in the hands of the king and a few privileged concessionaries.\" The system was extremely profitable and ABIR made a turnover of over 100 per cent on its initial stake in a single year. The King made 70 million Belgian francs' profit from the system between 1896 and 1905. The Free State's concession system was soon copied by other colonial regimes, notably those in the neighbouring French Congo.\n\nWith the majority of the Free State's revenues derived from the export of rubber, a labour policy (known by critics as the \"Red Rubber system\") was created to maximise its extraction. Labour was demanded by the administration as taxation. This created a \"slave society\" as companies became increasingly dependent on forcibly mobilising Congolese labour for their collection of rubber. The state recruited a number of black officials, known as \"capitas\", to organise local labour. However, the desire to maximise rubber collection, and hence the state's profits, meant that the centrally-enforced demands were often set arbitrarily without considering the numbers or the welfare of workers. In the concessionary territories, the private companies which had purchased a concession from the Free State administration were able to use virtually any measures they wished to increase production and profits without state interference. The lack of a developed bureaucracy to oversee any commercial methods produced an atmosphere of \"informality\" throughout the state in regards to the operation of enterprises, which in turn facilitated abuses. Treatment of labourers (especially the duration of service) was not regulated by law and instead was left to the discretion of officials on the ground. ABIR and the \"Anversoise\" were particularly noted for the harshness with which officials treated Congolese workers. The historian Jean Stengers described regions controlled by these two companies as \"veritable hells-on-earth\".\nWorkers who refused to supply their labour were coerced with \"constraint and repression\". Dissenters were beaten or whipped with the \"chicotte\", hostages were taken to ensure prompt collection and punitive expeditions were sent to destroy villages which refused. The policy led to a collapse of Congolese economic and cultural life, as well as farming in some areas. Much of the enforcement of rubber production was the responsibility of the \"Force Publique\", the colonial military. The \"Force\" had originally been established in 1885, with white officers and NCOs and black soldiers, and recruited from as far afield as Zanzibar, Nigeria, and Liberia. In the Congo, it recruited from specific ethnic and social demographics. These included the Bangala, and this contributed to the spread of the Lingala language across the country, and freed slaves from the eastern Congo. The so-called Zappo-Zaps (from the Songye ethnic group) were the most feared. Reportedly cannibals, the Zappo-Zaps frequently abused their official positions to raid the countryside for slaves. By 1900, the \"Force Publique\" numbered 19,000 men.\n\nThe red rubber system emerged with the creation of the concession regime in 1891 and lasted until 1906 when the concession system was restricted. At its height, it was heavily localised in the Équateur, Bandundu, and Kasai regions.\n\nFailure to meet the rubber collection quotas was punishable by death. Meanwhile, the Force Publique were required to provide the hand of their victims as proof when they had shot and killed someone, as it was believed that they would otherwise use the munitions (imported from Europe at considerable cost) for hunting. As a consequence, the rubber quotas were in part paid off in chopped-off hands. Sometimes the hands were collected by the soldiers of the Force Publique, sometimes by the villages themselves. There were even small wars where villages attacked neighboring villages to gather hands, since their rubber quotas were too unrealistic to fill. A Catholic priest quotes a man, Tswambe, speaking of the hated state official Léon Fiévez, who ran a district along the river north of Stanley Pool:\n\nAll blacks saw this man as the devil of the Equator ... From all the bodies killed in the field, you had to cut off the hands. He wanted to see the number of hands cut off by each soldier, who had to bring them in baskets ... A village which refused to provide rubber would be completely swept clean. As a young man, I saw [Fiévez's] soldier Molili, then guarding the village of Boyeka, take a net, put ten arrested natives in it, attach big stones to the net, and make it tumble into the river ... Rubber causes these torments; that's why we no longer want to hear its name spoken. Soldiers made young men kill or rape their own mothers and sisters.\n\nOne junior officer described a raid to punish a village that had protested. The officer in command \"ordered us to cut off the heads of the men and hang them on the village palisades ... and to hang the women and the children on the palisade in the form of a cross\". After seeing a Congolese person killed for the first time, a Danish missionary wrote, \"The soldier said 'Don't take this to heart so much. They kill us if we don't bring the rubber. The Commissioner has promised us if we have plenty of hands he will shorten our service. In Forbath's words:\n\nThe baskets of severed hands, set down at the feet of the European post commanders, became the symbol of the Congo Free State. ... The collection of hands became an end in itself. \"Force Publique\" soldiers brought them to the stations in place of rubber; they even went out to harvest them instead of rubber ... They became a sort of currency. They came to be used to make up for shortfalls in rubber quotas, to replace ... the people who were demanded for the forced labour gangs; and the \"Force Publique\" soldiers were paid their bonuses on the basis of how many hands they collected.\n\nIn theory, each right hand proved a killing. In practice, to save ammunition soldiers sometimes \"cheated\" by simply cutting off the hand and leaving the victim to live or die. More than a few survivors later said that they had lived through a massacre by acting dead, not moving even when their hands were severed, and waiting till the soldiers left before seeking help. In some instances a soldier could shorten his service term by bringing more hands than the other soldiers, which led to widespread mutilations and dismemberment. Other practices used to force workers to collect rubber were taking women and family members hostage.\n\nAside from rubber collection, violence in the Free State chiefly occurred in connection with wars and rebellions. Native states, notably Msiri's Yeke Kingdom, the Zande Federation, and Swahili-speaking territory in the eastern Congo under Tippu Tip, refused to recognise colonial authority and were defeated by the \"Force Publique\" with great brutality, during the Congo Arab war. In 1895, a military mutiny broke out among the Batetela in Kasai, leading to a 4-year insurgency. The conflict was particularly brutal and caused a great number of casualties.\n\nLeopold II was reported to have disapproved of the dismemberments, not on human rights grounds but because it harmed his economic interests. He was quoted as saying \"Cut off hands - that's idiotic. I'd cut off all the rest of them, but not hands. That's the one thing I need in the Congo.\"\n\nHistorians generally agree that a dramatic reduction in the overall size of the Congolese population occurred during the two decades of Free State rule in the Congo. It is argued that the reduction in the Congo was atypical and can be attributed to the direct and indirect effects of colonial rule and especially to disease and falling birthrate.\n\nThe historian Adam Hochschild argued that the dramatic fall in the Free State population was the result of a combination of \"murder\", \"starvation, exhaustion and exposure\", \"disease\" and \"a plummeting birth rate\". Roger Casement, concurs with this view. Sleeping sickness was also a major cause of fatality at the time. Opponents of Leopold's rule stated, however, that the administration itself was to be considered responsible for the spreading of the epidemic. Although it is impossible to be sure in the absence of records, violence and murder represented only a portion of the total. In a local study of the Kuba and Kete peoples, the historian Jan Vansina estimated that violence accounted for the deaths of less than five percent of the population.\nDiseases imported by Arab traders, European colonists and African porters ravaged the Congolese population and \"greatly exceeded\" the numbers killed by violence. Smallpox, sleeping sickness, amoebic dysentery, venereal diseases (especially syphilis and gonorrhea), and swine influenza were particularly severe. Sleeping sickness, in particular, was \"epidemic in large areas\" of the Congo and had a high mortality rate. In 1901 alone, it is estimated that as many as 500,000 Congolese died from sleeping sickness. Vansina estimated that five percent of the Congolese population perished from swine influenza. In areas in which dysentery became endemic, between 30 and 60 percent of the population could die. Vansina also pointed to the effects of malnutrition and food shortages in reducing immunity to the new diseases. The disruption of African rural populations may have helped to spread diseases further. Nevertheless, historian Roger Anstey wrote that \"a strong strand of local, oral tradition holds the rubber policy to have been a greater cause of death and depopulation than either the scourge of sleeping sickness or the periodic ravages of smallpox.\"\n\nIt is also widely believed that birth rates fell during the period too, meaning that the growth rate of the population fell relative to the natural death rate. Vansina, however, notes that precolonial societies had high birth and death rates, leading to a great deal of natural population fluctuation over time. Among the Kuba, the period 1880 to 1900 was actually one of population expansion.\n\nA reduction of the population of the Congo is noted by all who have compared the country at the beginning of Leopold's control with the beginning of Belgian state rule in 1908, but estimates of the death toll vary considerably. Estimates of some contemporary observers suggest that the population decreased by half during this period. According to Edmund D. Morel, the Congo Free State counted \"20 million souls\". Hence, Mark Twain mentioned the number of ten million deaths. Other estimates of the size of the overall population decline (or mortality displacement) range between two and 13 million. Ascherson cites an estimate by Casement of a population fall of three million, although he notes that it is \"almost certainly an underestimate\".\n\nIn the absence of a census providing even an initial idea of the size of population of the region at the inception of the Congo Free State (the first was taken in 1924), it is impossible to quantify population changes in the period. Despite this, Forbath more recently claimed the loss was at least five million. Adam Hochschild and Jan Vansina use the number 10 million. Hochschild cites several recent independent lines of investigation, by anthropologist Jan Vansina and others, that examine local sources (police records, religious records, oral traditions, genealogies, personal diaries), which generally agree with the assessment of the 1919 Belgian government commission: roughly half the population perished during the Free State period. Since the first official census by the Belgian authorities in 1924 put the population at about 10 million, these various approaches suggest a rough estimate of a total of 10 million dead. Jan Vansina returned to the issue of quantifying the total population decline, and revised his earlier position, he concluded that the Kuba population (one of the many Congolese populations) was rising during the first two decades of Leopold II's rule, and declined with 25 percent from 1900 to 1919, mainly due to sickness. Others argued a decrease of 20 percent over the first forty years of colonial rule (up to the census of 1924). According to the Congolese historian Isidore Ndaywel è Nziem 13 million died. To put these population changes in context, sourced references state that in 1900 Africa as a whole had between 90 million and 133 million people. However, no verifiable records exist. Louis and Stengers state that population figures at the start of Leopold's control are only \"wild guesses\", while calling E. D. Morel's attempt and others at coming to a figure for population losses \"but figments of the imagination\". However, authors that point out the lack of reliable demographic data are questioned by others calling the former minimalists and agnosticists, proving that these questions remain the object of heated debate.\n\nSince the first census of the Congolese population was made in 1924, there is a consensus among historians that accurate predictions of the population fall or number of deaths is impossible.\n\nEventually, growing scrutiny of Leopold's regime led to a popular campaign movement, centered in the United Kingdom and the United States, to force Leopold to renounce his ownership of the Congo. In many cases, the campaigns based their information on reports from British and Swedish missionaries working in the Congo.\n\nThe first international protest occurred in 1890 when George Washington Williams, an American, published an open letter to Leopold about abuses he had witnessed. Public interest in the abuses in the Congo Free State grew sharply from 1895, when the Stokes Affair and reports of mutilations reached the European and American public which began to discuss the \"Congo Question\". To appease public opinion, Leopold instigated a Commission for the Protection of Natives (\"Commission pour la Protection des Indigènes\"), composed of foreign missionaries, but made few serious efforts at substantive reform.\n\nIn Britain, the campaign was led by the activist and pamphleteer E. D. Morel after 1900, whose book \"Red Rubber\" (1906) reached a mass audience. Notable members of the campaign included the novelists Mark Twain, Joseph Conrad and Arthur Conan Doyle as well as Belgian socialists such as Emile Vandervelde. Campaigning groups, especially the Congo Reform Association, inspired by its founder's Casement Report, did not oppose colonialism and instead sought to end the excesses of the Free State by encouraging Belgium to annex the colony officially. This would avoid damaging the delicate balance of power between France and Britain on the continent. While supporters of the Free State regime attempted to argue against claims of atrocities, a Commission of Enquiry, appointed by the regime in 1904, confirmed the stories of atrocities and pressure on the Belgian government increased.\n\nIn 1908, as a direct result of this campaign, Belgium formally annexed the territory, creating the Belgian Congo. Conditions for the indigenous population improved dramatically with the suppression of forced labour, although many officials who had formerly worked for the Free State were retained in their posts long after annexation. Instead of mandating labour for colonial enterprises directly, the Belgian administration used a coercive tax that deliberately pressured Congolese to find work with European employers to procure the necessary funds to make the payments. For some time after the end of the Free State the Congolese were also required to provide a certain number of days of service per year for infrastructure projects. In spite of these measures, the legacy of the population decline of Leopold's reign left the colonial government with a severe labour shortage and it often had to resort to mass migrations to provide workers to emerging businesses.\n\nThe significant number of deaths under the Free State regime has led to some scholars to relate the atrocities to later genocides, though understanding of the losses under the colonial administration's rule as the result of harsh economic exploitation has led others to dispute the comparison. According to the United Nations' 1948 definition of the term \"genocide\", a genocide must be \"acts committed with intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnical, racial or religious group\". Sociologist Rhoda Howard-Hassmann stated that because the Congolese were not killed in a systematic fashion according to this criterion, \"technically speaking, this was not genocide even in a legally retroactive sense.\" Historians Hochschild and Georges Nzongola-Ntalaja have rejected allegations of genocide in the Free State because there is no evidence of a policy of deliberate extermination or the desire to eliminate any specific population groups, though the latter added that nevertheless there was \"a death toll of Holocaust proportions.\"\n\nIt is generally agreed by historians that extermination was never the policy of the Free State, which benefitted from the labour provided by Congolese workers. The Free State even made some efforts to attempt to tackle the spread of infectious diseases in the Congo by seeking the support of foreign medical institutes such as the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine. According to historian David Van Reybrouck, \"It would be absurd ... to speak of an act of 'genocide' or a 'holocaust'; genocide implies the conscious, planned annihilation of a specific population, and that was never the intention here, or the result ... But it was definitely a hecatomb, a slaughter on a staggering scale that was not intentional, but could have been recognised much earlier as the collateral damage of a perfidious, rapacious policy of exploitation\". According to Hochschild, \"while not a case of genocide, in the strict sense\", the atrocities in the Congo were \"one of the most appalling slaughters known to have been brought about by human agency\".\nHistorians have argued that comparisons drawn in the press by some between the death toll of the Free State atrocities and the Holocaust during World War II have been responsible for creating undue confusion over the issue of terminology. In one incident, the Japanese newspaper \"Yomiuri Shimbun\" used the word \"genocide\" in the title of a 2005 article by Hochschild. Hochschild himself criticised the title as \"misleading\" and stated that it had been chosen \"without my knowledge\". Similar criticism was echoed by other historians, including Jean-Luc Vellut.\n\nAllegations of genocide in the Free State have become common over time. According to historian Timothy J. Stapleton, \"Those who easily apply the term genocide to Leopold's regime seem to do so purely on the basis of its obvious horror and the massive numbers of people who may have perished.\"\nOne of the few historians to use the term is Robert Weisbord who argued, in a 2003 article, that there does not have to be intent to exterminate all members of a population in a genocide. He posited that \"an endeavor to eliminate a portion of a people would qualify as genocide\" according to the UN standards and asserted that the Free State did as much. Jeanne Haskin and Yaa-Lengi Meema Ngemi also refer to the atrocities as a genocide. Raphael Lemkin, coiner of the term \"genocide\", authored a manuscript in the 1950s (it was not published) that asserted the occurrence of \"an unambiguous genocide\" in the Free State, attributing most of the population decline to the repressive actions of colonial troops. In 2005, an early day motion before the British House of Commons, introduced by Andrew Dismore, called for the recognition of the Congo Free State's atrocities as a \"colonial genocide\" and called on the Belgian government to issue a formal apology. It was supported by 48 MPs.\n\nThe term \"Congolese Genocide\" is often used in an unrelated sense to refer to the mass murder and rape committed in the eastern Congo in the aftermath of the Rwandan Genocide (and the ensuing Second Congo War) between 1998 and 2003.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32432922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32432922", "title": "Bleeps.gr", "text": "Bleeps.gr\n\nBleeps.gr (or Bleeps) is the pseudonym used by M.V. Kakouris, who is a Greek artist. Bleeps creates political street art, paintings and installations; he is involved with the artivism movement. Most of his works can be seen in Athens, but a number of others can be found in cities and rural areas around Greece and Europe.\n\nBleeps started creating street art while he was in Bristol, UK, between 2003 and 2005,where he became familiar with the local underground scene.\n\nMost of Bleeps' street art projects derive elements from conceptual art, folk art and various past art movements, while the protagonists depicted are associated with Bleeps' interpretation of social life.\n\nHis stated goal is to examine systemic figures such as religion, politics, monetary system and consumerism.\n\nSince the beginning of the Greek financial crisis in 2008, Bleeps has been creating a series of works related to the crisis' impact on ordinary people and the lower middle class, globally and in his country. \n\n"}
{"id": "152534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=152534", "title": "Book burning", "text": "Book burning\n\nBook burning is the ritual destruction by fire of books or other written materials, usually carried out in a public context. The burning of books represents an element of censorship and usually proceeds from a cultural, religious, or political opposition to the materials in question.\n\nIn some cases, the destroyed works are irreplaceable and their burning constitutes a severe loss to cultural heritage. Examples include the burning of books and burying of scholars under China's Qin Dynasty (213–210 BCE), the burning of the Library of Alexandria (c. 49), the obliteration of the Library of Baghdad (1258), the destruction of Aztec codices by Itzcoatl (1430s), and the burning of Maya codices on the order of bishop Diego de Landa (1562).\n\nIn other cases, such as the Nazi book burnings, other copies of the destroyed books survive, but the instance of book burning becomes emblematic of a harsh and oppressive regime which is seeking to censor or silence an aspect of a nation's culture.\n\nBook burning can be an act of contempt for the book's contents or author, and the act is intended to draw wider public attention to this opinion. Examples include the burning of Wilhelm Reich's books by the FDA and the 2010 Qur'an-burning controversy.\n\nArt destruction is related to book burning, both because it might have similar cultural, religious, or political connotations, and because in various historical cases books and artworks were destroyed at the same time.\n\nIn modern times, other forms of media, such as phonograph records, video tapes, and CDs have also been burned, shredded, or crushed.\n\nWhen the burning is widespread and systematic, destruction of books and media can become a significant component of cultural genocide. \n\nThe burning of books has a long history as a tool wielded by authorities both secular and religious, in efforts to suppress dissenting or heretical views that are perceived as posing a threat to the prevailing order.\n\nAccording to the Tanakh (Hebrew Bible), in the 7th century BCE King Jehoiakim of Judah burned part of a scroll Baruch ben Neriah had written at prophet Jeremiah's dictation (Jeremiah 36).\n\nQin Shi Huang, first emperor of Qin Dynasty, ordered a Burning of books and burying of scholars in 213 BC and burial alive of 460 Confucian scholars in 210 BC in order to stay in the throne. Some of these books were written in Shang Xiang, a superior school founded in 2208 BC. The event caused the loss of many philosophical treatises of the Hundred Schools of Thought. The official philosophy of government (\"legalism\") survived.\n\nIn Acts in the New Testament Paul performed an exorcism in Ephesus. After men in Ephesus failed to perform the same feat many gave up their \"curious arts\" and burned the books because apparently they didn't work.\nAnd many that believed, came and confessed and shewed their deeds. Many of them also which used curious arts, brought their books together, and burned them before all men: and they counted the price of them, and found it fifty thousand pieces of silver.\nAfter the First Council of Nicea (325 AD), Roman emperor Constantine the Great issued an edict against nontrinitarian Arians which included a prescription for systematic book-burning: \"In addition, if any writing composed by Arius should be found, it should be handed over to the flames, so that not only will the wickedness of his teaching be obliterated, but nothing will be left even to remind anyone of him. And I hereby make a public order, that if someone should be discovered to have hidden a writing composed by Arius, and not to have immediately brought it forward and destroyed it by fire, his penalty shall be death. As soon as he is discovered in this offense, he shall be submitted for capital punishment...\" According to Elaine Pagels, \"In AD 367, Athanasius, the zealous bishop of Alexandria... issued an Easter letter in which he demanded that Egyptian monks destroy all such unacceptable writings, except for those he specifically listed as 'acceptable' even 'canonical'—a list that constitutes the present 'New Testament'\". (Pagels cites Athanasius's Paschal letter (letter 39) for 367 AD, which prescribes a canon but does not explicitly order monks to destroy excluded works.) Heretical texts do not turn up as palimpsests, scraped clean and overwritten, as do many texts of Classical antiquity. According to author Rebecca Knuth, multitudes of early Christian texts have been as thoroughly \"destroyed\" as if they had been publicly burnt.\n\nThe stories surrounding the loss of the great Library of Alexandria include:\n\n\n\"Much of its downfall was gradual, often bureaucratic, and by comparison to our cultural imaginings, somewhat petty.\" (Compare: El-Abbadi, M. (1990). The Life and Fate of the Ancient Library of Alexandria. Mayenne, France: United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, for tales of survival of the collection, in part, into the era of the Caliphate.)\n\nActivity by Cyril of Alexandria ( 376–444) brought fire to almost all the writings of Nestorius (386-450) shortly after 435. 'The writings of Nestorius were originally very numerous', however, they were not part of the Nestorian or Oriental theological curriculum until the mid-sixth century, unlike those of his teacher Theodore of Mopsuestia, and those of Diodorus of Tarsus, even then they were not key texts, so relatively few survive intact, cf. Baum, Wilhelm and Dietmar W. Winkler. 2003. The Church of the East: A Concise History. London: Routledge.\n\nAccording to the Chronicle of Fredegar, Recared, King of the Visigoths (reigned 586–601) and first Catholic king of Spain, following his conversion to Catholicism in 587, ordered that all Arian books should be collected and burned; and all the books of Arian theology were reduced to ashes, along with the house in which they had been purposely collected. Which facts demonstrate that Constantine's edict on Arian works was not rigorously observed, as Arian writings or the theology based on them survived to be burned much later in Spain.\n\nIn 1244, as an outcome of the Disputation of Paris, twenty-four carriage loads of Talmuds and other Jewish religious manuscripts were set on fire by French law officers in the streets of Paris.\n\nDuring the conquest of the Americas and in the aftermath of the encounter between European and indigenous American civilizations, many books written by indigenous peoples were destroyed. There were many books written by the Aztecs in existence at the time of the Spanish conquest of Yucatán in the 16th century. However, most were destroyed by the Conquistadors and the Catholic priests, with the exception of the work of the priest Bartolome de la Casas. In particular, many books in Yucatán were ordered destroyed by Bishop Diego de Landa in July 1562. De Landa wrote: \"We found a large number of books in these characters and, as they contained nothing in which were not to be seen as superstition and lies of the devil, we burned them all, which they (the Maya) regretted to an amazing degree, and which caused them much affliction.\" Ironically, most of the books that were destroyed by the Europeans were biased and based upon the Aztec people's version of the history of the region. The Aztecs had previously conquered the area and destroyed many of the Mayan books and documents.\n\nThe schism between the Church of England and that of the Roman Catholic Church reached a tipping point during the Tudor and Stuart periods of England (1485-1603, 1603-1714), when the citizens loyal to Crown and Country sacked Abbeys and Monasteries across the British countryside, and pillaged their valuable books to burn, degrade, or destroy. David Cressy’s (2005) article, \"Book Burning in Tudor and Stuart England\" discussed the mechanics of these book burnings and how the enforcement was trickled down to the citizens; that everyone had a part in this “spectacle”. “Over the course of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries book burning developed from a rare to an occasional occurrence, relocated from an outdoor to an indoor procedure, and changed from a bureaucratic to a quasi-theatrical performance” \n\nThe Library of Congress was founded in 1800, 24 years after the United States gained its independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain. In 1814, 3,000 books from the Library of Congress were used by the British forces to burn down the US Capitol during the Burning of Washington. Although there were dissenting voices to this wanton destruction, the conflagration was motivated by a strong desire on the part of the British to humiliate the Americans.\n\nAnthony Comstock's New York Society for the Suppression of Vice, founded in 1873, inscribed book burning on its seal, as a worthy goal to be achieved. Comstock's total accomplishment in a long and influential career is estimated to have been the destruction of some 15 tons of books, 284,000 pounds of plates for printing such 'objectionable' books, and nearly 4,000,000 pictures. All of this material was defined as \"lewd\" by Comstock's very broad definition of the term—which he and his associates successfully lobbied the United States Congress to incorporate in the Comstock Law.\n\n\"Main: Nazi book burnings\"\n\nThe Nazi government decreed broad grounds for burning material:\n\nIn 1588, the exiled English Catholic William Cardinal Allen wrote \"An Admonition to the Nobility and People of England\", a work sharply attacking Queen Elizabeth I. It was to be published in Spanish-occupied England in the event of the Spanish Armada succeeding in its invasion. Upon the defeat of the Armada, Allen carefully consigned his publication to the fire, and it is only known of through one of Elizabeth's spies, who had stolen a copy.\n\nThe Hassidic Rabbi Nachman of Breslov is reported to have written a book which he himself burned in 1808. To this day, his followers mourn \"The Burned Book\" and seek in their Rabbi's surviving writings for clues as to what the lost volume contained and why it was destroyed.\n\nCarlo Goldoni is known to have burned his first play, a tragedy called \"Amalasunta\", when encountering unfavorable criticism.\n\nNikolai Gogol burned the second half of his magnum opus \"Dead Souls\", having come under the influence of a priest who persuaded him that his work was sinful; Gogol later described this as a mistake.\n\nIn the 1870s Tchaikovsky destroyed the manuscript full score of his first opera, \"The Voyevoda\". During the Soviet period \"The Voyevoda\" was posthumously reconstructed from surviving orchestral and vocal parts and the composer's sketches. \n\nAfter Hector Hugh Munro (better known by the pen name \"Saki\") was killed in World War I in November 1916, his sister Ethel destroyed most of his papers.\n\nJoe Shuster, who together with Jerry Siegel created the fictional superhero Superman, in 1938 burned the first Superman story when under the impression that it would not find a publisher.\n\nIn Catholic hagiography, Saint Vincent of Saragossa is mentioned as having been offered his life on condition that he consign Scripture to the fire; he refused and was martyred. He is often depicted holding the book which he protected with his life.\n\nAnother book-saving Catholic Saint is the Tenth Century St. Wiborada. She is credited with having predicted in 925 a Hungarian invasion of her region in Switzerland. Her warning allowed the priests and religious of St. Gall and St. Magnus to hide their books and wine and escape into caves in nearby hills. Wiborada herself refused to escape and was killed by the marauders, being later canonized. In art, she is commonly represented holding a book to signify the library she saved, and is considered a patron saint of libraries and librarians.\n\nAt the beginning of the Battle of Monte Cassino in the World War II, two German officers - Viennese-born Lt.Col. Julius Schlegel (a Roman Catholic), and Captain Maximilian Becker (a Protestant) - had the foresight to transfer the Monte Cassino archives to the Vatican. Otherwise the archives - containing a vast number of documents relating to the 1500-years' history of the Abbey as well as some 1,400 irreplaceable manuscript codices, chiefly patristic and historical - would have been destroyed in the Allied air bombing which almost completely destroyed the Abbey shortly afterwards. Also saved by the two officers' prompt action were the collections of the Keats-Shelley Memorial House in Rome which had been sent to the Abbey for safety in December 1942.\n\nThe Sarajevo Haggadah - one of the oldest and most valuable Jewish illustrated manuscripts, with immense historical and cultural value - was hidden from the Nazis and their Ustashe collaborators by Derviš Korkut, chief librarian of the National Museum in Sarajevo. At risk to his own life, Korkut smuggled the Haggadah out of Sarajevo and gave it for safekeeping to a Muslim cleric in Zenica, where it was hidden until the end of the war under the floorboards of either a mosque or a Muslim home. The Haggadah again survived destruction during the wars which followed the Breakup of Yugoslavia \nIn 1940's France, a group of anti-fascist exiles created a Library of Burned Books which housed all the books that Adolf Hitler had destroyed. This library contained copies of titles that were burned. These book burnings from the Nazis was an idea to help cleanse German culture of Jewish and foreign influences such as pacifist and decadent literature. The Nazis were going to make a \"museum\" of Judaism once the \"Final Solution\" was complete to house certain books that were saved by the Nazis themselves.\n\nWhen Virgil died, he left instructions that his manuscript of the \"Aeneid\" was to be burnt, as it was a draft version with uncorrected faults and not a final version for release. However, this instruction was ignored. It is mainly to the \"Aeneid\", published in this \"imperfect\" form, that Virgil owes his lasting fame – and it is considered one of the great masterpieces of classical literature as a whole.\n\nBefore his death, Franz Kafka wrote to his friend and literary executor Max Brod: \"Dearest Max, my last request: Everything I leave behind me... in the way of diaries, manuscripts, letters (my own and others'), sketches, and so on, [is] to be burned unread.\" Brod overrode Kafka's wishes, believing that Kafka had given these directions to him, specifically, because Kafka knew he would not honour them – Brod had told him as much. Had Brod carried out Kafka's instructions, virtually the whole of Kafka's work – except for a few short stories published in his lifetime – would have been lost forever. Most critics, at the time and up to the present, justify Brod's decision.\n\nA similar case concerns the noted American poet Emily Dickinson, who died in 1886 and left to her sister Lavinia the instruction of burning all her papers. Lavinia Dickinson did burn almost all of her sister's correspondences, but interpreted the will as not including the forty notebooks and loose sheets, all filled with almost 1800 poems; these Lavinia saved and began to publish the poems that year. Had Lavinia Dickinson been more strict in carrying out her sister's will, all but a small handful of Emily Dickinson's poetic work would have been lost.\n\nBiblioclasm still occurs. All over the world schools and libraries have been destroyed in recent years. Despite the act of destroying books being condemned by the majority of society, people still participate on small and/or large scale.\n\nIn Azerbaijan, when a modified Latin alphabet was adopted, books published in Arabic script were burned, especially in the late 1920s and 1930s. The texts were not limited to the Quran; medical and historical manuscripts were also destroyed.\n\nBook burnings were organised regularly in Nazi Germany in the 1930s by stormtroopers to destroy \"degenerate\" works, especially by Jewish authors such as Thomas Mann, Marcel Proust and Karl Marx.\n\nIn the 1950s, over six tons of books by William Reich were burned in the U.S. under judicial orders.\n\nIn Denmark, a comic book burning took place 23 June 1955. It was a bonfire consisting of comic books and on top of that a life size cardboard cutout of The Phantom.\n\nKjell Ludvik Kvavik, a senior Norwegian official, had a penchant for removing maps and other pages from rare books and was noticed in January 1983 by a young college student. The student, Barbro Andenaes, reported the actions of the senior official to the superintendent of the reading room and then to the head librarian of the university library in Oslo. Hesitant to make public something that would greatly hurt the career of Kvavik even if the accusation proved false, media kept the name of the perpetrator quiet until his house was searched by police. The authorities seized 470 maps and prints as well as 112 books that Kvavik had illegally obtained. While this may not be the large scale, violent demonstration seen during wars, Kvavik's disregard for libraries and books shows that destruction of books on any scale can affect an entire country. Here, a senior official in the Norwegian government was disgraced and the University Library was refunded only a small portion of the costs it incurred from the loss and destruction of rare materials as well as the security changes that had to be made. In this case, the draw of personal profit and enhancing one's own collection was the cause of the defacement of rare books and maps. While the main goal was not destruction for destruction's sake, the resulting damage to the ephemera still carries weight within the library community.\nIn 1984, Amsterdam's South African Institute was infiltrated by an organized group bent on drawing attention to the inequality of the apartheid. Well-organized and ensuring patrons of the library that no harm would come to them, group members systematically smashed microfiche machines and threw books into the nearby waterway. Indiscriminate of the content being destroyed, shelf after shelf was cleared of its contents until the group left. Staff members fished books from the water in hopes of salvaging the rare editions of travel books, documents about the Boer Wars, and contemporary materials both for and against apartheid. Many were destroyed by oil, ink, and paint that the anti-apartheid demonstrators had flung around the library. The world was outraged at the loss of knowledge that these demonstrators had caused, and instead of winning support and getting attention on the issue of apartheid, the international audience cried out against the actions at the Amsterdam's South African Institute. Some demonstrators came forward to explain that they believed the institute was pro-apartheid and that nothing was being done to change the status quo in South Africa.\n\nThe advent of the digital age has resulted in an immense collection of written work being catalogued exclusively or primarily in digital form. The intentional deletion or removal of these works has been often referred to as a new form of book burning.\n\nSome supporters have celebrated book burning cases in art and other media. Such is the bas-relief by Giovanni Battista Maini of \"The Burning of Heretical Books\" over a side door on the façade of Santa Maria Maggiore, Rome, which depicts the burning of 'heretical' books as a triumph of righteousness.\n\nIn 1973, during the years of the Chilean fascist dictatorship under Augusto Pinochet, hundreds of books were burned as a way of repression and censorship of leftist literature.\n\nA similar incident also occurred in Mullumbimby, New South Wales, Australia in 2009. Reported as \"just like the ritual burning of books in Nazi Germany\", a book-burning ceremony was held by students of the \"socially harmful cult\" Universal Medicine, an esoteric healing business owned by Serge Benhayon. Students were invited to throw their books onto the pyre. Most of the volumes were on Chinese medicine, kinesiology, acupuncture, homeopathy and other alternative healing modalities, all of which Benhayon has decreed evil or \"prana\".\n\nIn 1981, the Jaffna Public Library in Jaffna, Sri Lanka was burned down by Sinhalese police and paramilitaries during a pogrom against the minority Tamil population. At the time of its burning it contained almost 100,000 Tamil books and rare documents.\n\nIt is estimated that during 1990s in Croatia over 2,8 million books were destroyed by the Croatian government. Those were the books written in Cyrillic, written in Ekavian version of Serbo-Croatian, written by the Serbs or by \"unsuitable\" Croats. \n\nIn the Sikh religion, any copies of their sacred Guru, Guru Granth Sahib which are too badly damaged to be used, and any printer's waste which bears any of its text, are cremated. Such a cremation is called \"Agan Bhet\", and is similar to that performed when cremating a deceased Sikh.\n\nIn his 1821 play, \"Almansor\", the German writer Heinrich Heine—referring to the burning of the Muslim holy book, the Qur'an, during the Spanish Inquisition—wrote, \"Where they burn books, so too will they in the end burn human beings.\" (\"Dort, wo man Bücher verbrennt, verbrennt man auch am Ende Menschen.\") Over a century later, Heine's own books were among the thousands of volumes that were torched by the Nazis in Berlin's Opernplatz, even while his poem Die Lorelei continued to be printed in German schoolbooks as \"by an unknown author\". In Ray Bradbury's Fahrenheit 451, the book deals with the concept of censorship via burning books. It is said that Bradbury wrote the book due to his concerns of literature being burned in America during the McCarthy era and as well, fearing that mass media (television especially) reduce the interest in reading books.\n\nThe Japanese light novel series , by Hiro Arikawa, describes how an armed Library Defence Force protects libraries from censorship after a lethal attack at library. Which is later adapted to manga, 12-episode anime, internet radio shows, and finally live action films and special TV episode.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14087640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14087640", "title": "Centroidal Voronoi tessellation", "text": "Centroidal Voronoi tessellation\n\nIn geometry, a centroidal Voronoi tessellation (CVT) is a special type of Voronoi tessellation or Voronoi diagram. A Voronoi tessellation is called centroidal when the generating point of each Voronoi cell is also its mean (center of mass). It can be viewed as an optimal partition corresponding to an optimal distribution of generators. A number of algorithms can be used to generate centroidal Voronoi tessellations, including Lloyd's algorithm for K-means clustering.\n\nGersho's conjecture, proven for one and two dimensions, says that \"asymptotically speaking, all cells of the optimal CVT, while forming a tessellation, are congruent to a basic cell which depends on the dimension.\" In two dimensions, the basic cell for the optimal CVT is a regular hexagon.\n\nCentroidal Voronoi tessellations are useful in data compression, optimal quadrature, optimal quantization, clustering, and optimal mesh generation. Many patterns seen in nature are closely approximated by a Centroidal Voronoi tessellation. Examples of this include the Giant's Causeway, the cells of the cornea, and the breeding pits of the male tilapia.\n\nA weighted centroidal Voronoi diagrams is a CVT in which each centroid is weighted according to a certain function. For example, a grayscale image can be used as a density function to weight the points of a CVT, as a way to create digital stippling.\n"}
{"id": "44888771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44888771", "title": "Chidakasha", "text": "Chidakasha\n\nChidākāsha in which all gross and subtle activities of the consciousness take place; it is the sky of consciousness, everything dies and evaporates in this space of consciousness, everything is reduced to its essence in this space. Even the mind (conditioned consciousness), along with intellect and ego, merges in this space of unconditioned Pure Consciousness through the paths of devotion, knowledge and action. It is also associated with the ajna chakra, the guru chakra, positioned in the stomata behind the centre of the forehead.\n\nYoga Vasistha speaks about the \"bhutākāsha\" – dealing with gross matter, \"chittākāsha\" – dealing with mental concepts and \"chidākāsha\" with the \" ātman \". These are spaces projected by the mind but all spaces are reduced to one, that is, to the ultimate space which is one’s own true self. \"Chittākāsha\" is the field of the mind which provokes a deeper enquiry because there is in it still the duality of the 'seer' (\"drg\") and the 'seen' (\"drshya\"); this duality ceases to exist in \"chidākāsha\" which is the field of Pure Consciousness viewed by the mind non-casually. Different mental spaces are seen when the mind ventures outwards to see all that which exists externally, but what already exists externally exists within contained in the inner mental space whose nature is different in different planes, and because consciousness functions variously in varying dimensions depending upon fineness of matter, the number of dimensions and the varying subtlety of the mind. \"Chidākāsha\" is the result of Divine Ideation which makes the world a mental projection that functions within time and space to give itself a semblance of reality.\n\n\"Chidākāsha\" also means the space of consciousness and the space behind the forehead which is the seat of visualization that links man with the conscious, subconscious and super-conscious and also the object of meditation or \"ishta deva\"; it helps gain insight into the connection between the two confronting worlds – the higher that is beyond all objects and thought and the lower which is the material world of senses. Subtle vision is developed though practice of \"Chidākāsha dhāranā\". \"Bhutākāsha\" is the space outside, the outside world of objects that the senses meet and a mere reflection of the infinite within; \"Chidākāsha\" is the space within which having turned the mind inwardly the sublime objectless infinite is to be realized through \"Adhyātma Vidyā\". In his Vivekachudamani, Shankara reminds that the first means to yoga is control of speech, then cessation of sense organ activity, control of mind and control of intellect. He states:-\n\nThen all wrong identifications and knowledge of the anatman cease to survive, there is complete removal of sorrow, and all that remains is the Infinite.\n\nYama tells Nachiketa:-\n\nand,\n\nIn other words, Nachiketa is told about the pre-eminence of the all-encompassing Brahman who is everything and who pervades all things. He is told about Brahman shining brightly in the sky (\" akasha \") in subtle ether, in the sky of the \"Chidākāsha\" the infinite all –pervading subtle space of Consciousness ; the Self which produces all movement in the universe, shines in the \"Chidākāsha\" lighting up all worlds gross and subtle because of the emanation of Om.\n"}
{"id": "31994535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31994535", "title": "Comparison of Nazism and Stalinism", "text": "Comparison of Nazism and Stalinism\n\nA number of authors have carried out comparisons of Nazism and Stalinism, in which they have considered the similarities and differences of the two ideologies and political systems, what relationship existed between the two regimes, and why both of them came to prominence at the same time. During the 20th century, the comparison of Stalinism and Nazism was made on the topics of totalitarianism, ideology, and personality cult. Both regimes were seen in contrast to the liberal West, with an emphasis on the similarities between the two. The American political scientists Zbigniew Brzezinski, Hannah Arendt and Carl Friedrich and historian Robert Conquest were prominent advocates of applying the \"totalitarian\" concept to compare Nazism and Stalinism.\n\nOne of the first scholars to publish a comparative study of Nazi Germany and Stalin’s Soviet Union was Hannah Arendt. In her 1951 work, \"The Origins of Totalitarianism\", Arendt puts forward the idea of totalitarianism as a distinct type of political movement and form of government, which “differs essentially from other forms of political oppression known to us such as despotism, tyranny and dictatorship.” Furthermore, Arendt distinguishes between a totalitarian movement (such as a political party with totalitarian aims) and a totalitarian government. Not all totalitarian movements succeed in creating totalitarian governments once they gain power. In Arendt’s view, although many totalitarian movements existed in Europe in the 1920s and 1930s, only the governments of Stalin and Hitler succeeded in fully implementing their totalitarian aims. \n\nArendt traced the origin of totalitarian movements to the nineteenth century, focusing especially on antisemitism and imperialism. She emphasized the connection between the rise of European nation-states and the growth of antisemitism, which was due to the fact that the Jews represented an “inter-European, non-national element in a world of growing or existing nations.” Conspiracy theories abounded, and the Jews were accused of being part of various international schemes to ruin European nations. Small antisemitic political parties formed in response to this perceived Jewish threat, and, according to Arendt, these were the first political organizations in Europe that claimed to represent the interests of the whole nation as opposed to the interests of a class or other social group. The later totalitarian movements would copy or inherit this claim to speak for the whole nation, with the implication that any opposition to them constituted treason.\n\nEuropean imperialism of the nineteenth century also paved the way for totalitarianism, by legitimizing the concept of endless expansion. After Europeans had engaged in imperialist expansion on other continents, political movements developed which aimed to copy the methods of imperialism on the European continent itself. Arendt refers specifically to the “pan-movements” of pan-Germanism and pan-Slavism, which promised continental empires to nations that had little hope of overseas expansion. According to Arendt, “Nazism and Bolshevism owe more to Pan-Germanism and Pan-Slavism (respectively) than to any other ideology or political movement.”\n\nArendt argues that both the Nazi and Bolshevik movements “recruited their members from [a] mass of apparently indifferent people whom all other parties had given up,” and who “had reason to be equally hostile to all parties.” For this reason, totalitarian movements did not need to use debate or persuasion, and did not need to refute the arguments of the other parties. Their target audience did not have to be persuaded to despise the other parties or the democratic system, because it consisted of people who already despised mainstream politics. As a result, totalitarian movements were free to use violence and terror against their opponents without fear that this might alienate their own supporters. Instead of arguing against their opponents, they adopted deterministic views of human behavior and presented opposing ideas as “originating in deep natural, social, or psychological sources beyond the control of the individual and therefore beyond the power of reason.” The Nazis in particular, during the years before their rise to power, engaged in “killing small socialist functionaries or influential members of opposing parties” both as a means to intimidate opponents and as a means of demonstrating to their supporters that they were a party of action, “different from the ‘idle talkers’ of other parties.”\n\nTotalitarian governments make extensive use of propaganda, and are often characterized by having a strong distinction between what they tell their own supporters and the propaganda they produce for others. Arendt distinguishes these two categories as \"indoctrination\" and \"propaganda\". Indoctrination consists of the message that a totalitarian government promotes internally, to the members of the ruling party and that segment of the population which supports the government. Propaganda consists of the message that a totalitarian government seeks to promote in the outside world, and also among those parts of its own society which may not support the government. Thus, “the necessities for propaganda are always dictated by the outside world,” while the opportunities for indoctrination depend on “the totalitarian governments’ isolation and security from outside interference.” \n\nThe type of indoctrination used by the Soviets and the Nazis was characterized by claims of “scientific” truth, and appeals to “objective laws of nature.” Both movements took a deterministic view of human society and claimed that their ideologies were based on scientific discoveries regarding race (in the case of the Nazis) or the forces governing human history (in the case of the Soviets). Arendt identifies this as being in certain ways similar to modern advertising, in which companies claim that scientific research shows their products to be superior, but more generally she argues that it is an extreme version of “that obsession with science which has characterized the Western world since the rise of mathematics and physics in the sixteenth century.” By their use of pseudoscience as the main justification for their actions, Nazism and Stalinism are distinguished from earlier historical despotic regimes, who appealed instead to religion or sometimes did not try to justify themselves at all. According to Arendt, totalitarian governments did not merely use these appeals to supposed scientific laws as propaganda to manipulate others. Rather, totalitarian leaders like Hitler and Stalin genuinely believed that they were acting in accordance with immutable natural laws, to such an extent that they were willing to sacrifice the self-interest of their regimes for the sake of enacting those supposed laws. For instance, the Nazis treated the inhabitants of occupied territories with extreme brutality and planned to depopulate Eastern Europe in order to make way for colonists from the German “master race,” despite the fact that this actively harmed their war effort. Stalin repeatedly purged the Communist Party of people who deviated even slightly from the party line, even when this weakened the party or the Soviet government, because he believed that they represented the interests of “dying classes” and their demise was historically inevitable.\n\nArendt also identifies the central importance of an all-powerful leader in totalitarian movements. As in other areas, she distinguishes between totalitarian leaders (such as Hitler and Stalin) and non-totalitarian dictators or autocratic leaders. The totalitarian leader does not rise to power by personally using violence or through any special organizational skills, but rather by controlling appointments of personnel within the party, so that all other prominent party members owe their positions to him. With loyalty to the leader becoming the primary criterion for promotion, ambitious party members compete with each other in trying to express their loyalty, and a cult of personality develops around the leader. Even when the leader is not particularly competent and the members of his inner circle are aware of his deficiencies, they remain committed to him out of fear that without him the entire power structure would collapse.\n\nOnce in power, according to Arendt, totalitarian movements face a major dilemma: they built their support on the basis of anger against the status quo and on impossible or dishonest promises, but now they have become the new status quo and are expected to carry out their promises. They deal with this problem by engaging in a constant struggle against external and internal enemies, real or imagined, so as to enable them to say that, in a sense, they have not yet gained the power they need to fulfill their promises. According to Arendt, totalitarian governments must be constantly fighting enemies in order to survive. This explains their apparently irrational behavior, for example when Hitler continued to make territorial demands even after he was offered everything he asked for in the Munich Agreement, or when Stalin unleashed the Great Terror despite the fact that he faced no significant internal opposition.\n\nArendt points out the widespread use of concentration camps by totalitarian governments, arguing that they are the most important manifestation of the need to find enemies to fight against, and are therefore “more essential to the preservation of the regime’s power than any of its other institutions.” Although forced labor was commonly imposed on inmates of concentration camps, Arendt argues that their primary purpose was not any kind of material gain for the regime: “The only permanent economic function of the camps has been the financing of their own supervisory apparatus; thus from the economic point of view the concentration camps exist mostly for their own sake.” The Nazis in particular carried this to the point of “open anti-utility,” by expending large sums of money, resources and manpower – during a war – for the purpose of building and staffing extermination camps and transporting people to them. This sets apart the concentration camps of totalitarian regimes from older human institutions that bear some similarity to them, such as slavery. Slaves were abused and killed for the sake of profit; concentration camp inmates were abused and killed because a totalitarian government needed to justify its existence. Finally, Arendt points out that concentration camps under both Hitler and Stalin included large numbers of inmates who were innocent of any crime – not only in the ordinary sense of the word, but even by the standards of the regimes themselves. That is to say, most of the inmates had not actually committed any action against the regime.\n\nThroughout her analysis, Arendt emphasized the modernity and novelty of the governmental structures set up by Stalin and Hitler, arguing that they represented “an entirely new form of government” which is likely to manifest itself again in various other forms in the future. She also cautioned against the belief that future totalitarian movements would necessarily share the ideological foundations of Nazism or Stalinism, writing that “all ideologies contain totalitarian elements.”\n\nThe totalitarian paradigm in the comparative study of Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union was further developed by Carl Friedrich and Zbigniew Brzezinski, who wrote extensively on this topic both individually and in collaboration. Similar to Hannah Arendt, they state that “totalitarian dictatorship is a new phenomenon; there has never been anything quite like it before.” Friedrich and Brzezinski classify totalitarian dictatorship as a type of autocracy, but argue that it is different in important ways from most other historical autocracies. In particular, it is distinguished by a reliance on modern technology and mass legitimation. Unlike Arendt, Friedrich and Brzezinski apply the notion of totalitarian dictatorship not only to the regimes of Hitler and Stalin, but also to the USSR throughout its entire existence, as well as the regime of Benito Mussolini in Italy and the People’s Republic of China under Mao Zedong.\n\nCarl Friedrich noted that the “possibility of equating the dictatorship of Stalin in the Soviet Union and that of Hitler in Germany” has been a deeply controversial topic and a subject of debate almost from the beginning of those dictatorships. Various other aspects of the two regimes have also been the subject of intense scholarly debate, such as whether Nazi and Stalinist ideologies were genuinely believed and pursued by the respective governments, or whether the ideologies were merely convenient justifications for dictatorial rule. Friedrich himself argues in favor of the former view.\n\nFriedrich and Brzezinski argue that Nazism and Stalinism are not only similar to each other, but also represent a continuation or a return to the tradition of European absolute monarchy on certain levels. In the absolute monarchies of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, the monarch ultimately held all decisional power, and was considered accountable only to God. In Stalinism and Nazism, the leader likewise held all real power, and was considered accountable only to various intangible entities such as “the people”, “the masses” or “the Volk.” Thus the common feature of autocracies – whether monarchical or totalitarian – is the concentration of power in the hands of a leader who cannot be held accountable by any legal mechanisms, and who is supposed to be the embodiment of the will of an abstract entity. Friedrich and Brzezinski also identify other features common to all autocracies, such as “the oscillation between tight and loose control.” The regime alternates between periods of intense repression and periods of relative freedom, often represented by different leaders. This depends in part on the personal character of different leaders, but Friedrich and Brzezinski believe that there is also an underlying political cycle, in which rising discontent leads to increased repression up to the point at which the opposition is eliminated, then controls are relaxed until the next time that popular dissatisfaction begins to grow.\n\nThus, placing Stalinism and Nazism within the broader historical tradition of autocratic government, Friedrich and Brzezinski hold that “totalitarian dictatorship, in a sense, is the adaptation of autocracy to twentieth-century industrial society.” However, at the same time, they insist that totalitarian dictatorship is a “\"novel\" type of autocracy” and argue that twentieth century totalitarian regimes (such as those of Hitler and Stalin) had more in common with each other than with any other form of government, including historical autocracies of the past. Totalitarianism can only exist after the creation of modern technology, because such technology is essential for propaganda, for surveillance of the population, and for the operation of a secret police. Furthermore, when speaking of the differences and similarities between fascist and communist regimes, Friedrich and Brzezinski insist that the two kinds of totalitarian governments are “basically alike” but “not wholly alike” – they are more similar to each other than to other forms of government, but they are not the same. Among the major differences between them, Friedrich and Brzezinski identify in particular the fact that communists seek “the world revolution of the proletariat,” while fascists wish to “establish the imperial predominance of a particular nation or race.” \n\nIn terms of the similarities between Nazism and Stalinism, Friedrich lists five main aspects that they hold in common: First, an official ideology that is supposed to be followed by all members of society, at least passively, and which promises to serve as a perfect guide towards some ultimate goal. Second, a single political party, composed of the most enthusiastic supporters of the official ideology, representing an elite group within society (no more than 10 percent of the population), and organized along strictly regimented lines. Third, “a technologically conditioned near-complete monopoly of control of all means of effective armed combat” in the hands of the party or its representatives. Fourth, a similar monopoly held by the party over the mass media and all technological forms of communication. Fifth, “a system of terroristic police control” that is not only used to defend the regime against real enemies, but also to persecute various groups of people who are only suspected of being enemies or who may potentially become enemies in the future.\n\nTwo first pillars of any totalitarian government, according to Friedrich and Brzezinski, are the dictator and the Party. The dictator, whether Stalin, Hitler or Mussolini, holds supreme power. Friedrich and Brzezinski explicitly reject the claim that the Party, or any other institution, could provide a significant counterweight to the power of the dictator in Nazism or Stalinism. The dictator needs the Party in order to be able to rule, so he may be careful not to make decisions that would go directly against the wishes of other leading Party members, but ultimate authority rests with him and not with them. Like Arendt, Friedrich and Brzezinski also identify the cult of personality surrounding the leader as an essential element of a totalitarian dictatorship, and reference Stalin’s personality cult in particular. They also draw attention to the fact that Hitler and Stalin were expected to provide ideological direction for their governments and not merely practical leadership. Friedrich and Brzezinski write that “unlike military dictators in the past, but like certain types of primitive chieftains, the totalitarian dictator is both ruler and high priest.” That is to say, he not only governs, but also provides the principles on which his government is to be based. This is partly due to the way that totalitarian governments arise. They come about when a militant ideological movement seizes power, so the first leader of a totalitarian government is usually the ideologue who built the movement that seized power, and subsequent leaders try to emulate him.\n\nThe totalitarian dictator needs loyal lieutenants to carry out his orders faithfully and with a reasonable degree of efficiency. Friedrich and Brzezinski identify parallels between the men in Hitler and Stalin’s entourage, arguing that both dictators used similar people to perform similar tasks. Thus, for example, Martin Bormann and Georgy Malenkov were both capable administrators and bureaucrats, while Heinrich Himmler and Lavrentiy Beria were ruthless secret police chiefs responsible for suppressing any potential challenge to the dictator’s power. Both Hitler and Stalin promoted rivalry and distrust among their lieutenants so as to ensure that none of them would become powerful enough to challenge the dictator himself. This is the cause of an important weakness of the totalitarian regimes: the problem of succession. Friedrich points out that neither the Nazi nor the Stalinist government ever established any official line of succession or any mechanism to decide who would replace the dictator after his death. The dictator, being the venerated “father of the people,” was regarded as irreplaceable. There could never be any heir apparent, because such an heir would have been a threat to the power of the dictator while he was alive. Thus the dictator’s inevitable death would always leave behind a major power vacuum and cause a political crisis. In the case of the Nazi regime, since Hitler died mere days before the final defeat of Germany in the war, this never became a major issue. In the case of the USSR, Stalin’s death led to a prolonged power struggle.\n\nFriedrich and Brzezinski also identify key similarities between the Nazi and Stalinist political parties, which set them apart from other types of political parties. Both the Nazi Party and the CPSU under Stalin had very strict membership requirements and did not accept members on the basis of mere agreement with the Party’s ideology and goals. Rather, they strictly tested potential members, in a manner similar to exclusive clubs, and often engaged in political purges of the membership, expelling large numbers of people from their ranks (and sometimes arresting and executing those expelled, such as in the Great Purge or the Night of the Long Knives). Thus, the totalitarian party cultivates the idea that to be a member is a privilege which needs to be earned, and total obedience to the leader is required in order to maintain this privilege. While both Nazism and Stalinism required party members to display such total loyalty in practice, they differed in the way they dealt with it in theory. Nazism openly proclaimed the hierarchical ideal of absolute obedience to the Führer as one of its key ideological principles (the \"Führerprinzip\"). Stalinism, meanwhile, denied that it did anything similar, and claimed instead to uphold democratic principles, with the Party Congress (made up of elected delegates) supposedly being the highest authority. However, Stalinist elections typically featured only a single candidate, and the Party Congress met very rarely and simply approved Stalin’s decisions. Thus, regardless of the differences in their underlying ideological claims, the Nazi and Stalinist parties were organized in practice along similar lines, with a rigid hierarchy and centralized leadership.\n\nEach totalitarian party and dictator is supported by a specific totalitarian ideology. Friedrich and Brzezinski argue, in agreement with Arendt, that Nazi and Stalinist leaders really believed in their respective ideologies and did not merely use them as tools to gain power. Several major policies, such as the Stalinist collectivization of agriculture or the Nazi “final solution”, cannot be explained by anything other than a genuine commitment to achieve ideological goals, even at great cost. The ideologies were different and their goals were different, but what they had in common was a utopian commitment to reshaping the world, and a determination to fight by any means necessary against a real or imagined enemy. This stereotyped enemy could be described as “the fat rich Jew or the Jewish Bolshevik” for the Nazis, or “the war-mongering, atom-bomb-wielding American Wallstreeter” for the Soviets.\n\nAccording to Friedrich and Brzezinski, the most important difference between Nazi and Stalinist ideology lies in the degree of universality involved. Stalinism, and communist ideology in general, is universal in its appeal and addresses itself to all the “workers of the world.” Nazism, on the other hand, and fascist ideology in general, can only address itself to one particular race or nation – the “master race” that is destined to dominate all others. Therefore, “in communism social justice appears to be the ultimate value, unless it be the classless society that is its essential condition; in fascism, the highest value is dominion, eventually world dominion, and the strong and pure nation-race is \"its\" essential condition, as seen by its ideology.” This means that fascist or Nazi movements from different countries will be natural enemies, rather than natural allies, as they each seek to extend the dominion of their own nation at the expense of others. Friedrich and Brzezinski see this as a weakness inherent in fascist and Nazi ideology, while communist universalism is a source of ideological strength for Stalinism.\n\nFriedrich and Brzezinski also draw attention to the symbols used by Nazis and Stalinists to represent themselves. The Soviet Union adopted the hammer and sickle, a newly-created symbol, “invented by the leaders of the movement and pointing to the future.” Meanwhile, Nazi Germany used the swastika, “a ritual symbol of uncertain origin, quite common in primitive societies.” Thus, one is trying to project itself as being oriented towards a radically new future, while the other is appealing to a mythical heroic past.\n\nTotalitarian dictatorships maintain themselves in power through the use of propaganda and terror, which Friedrich and Brzezinski believe to be closely connected. Terror may be enforced with arrests and executions of dissenters, but it can also take more subtle forms, such as the threat of losing one’s job, social stigma and defamation. “Terror” can refer to any widespread method used to intimidate people into submission as a matter of daily life. According to Friedrich and Brzezinski, the most effective terror is invisible to the people it affects. They simply develop a habit of acting in a conformist manner and not questioning authority, without necessarily being aware that this is what they are doing. Thus, terror creates a society dominated by apparent consensus, where the vast majority of the population appears to support the government. Propaganda is then used to maintain this appearance of popular consent. \n\nTotalitarian propaganda is one of the features that distinguishes totalitarian regimes as modern forms of government and separates them from older autocracies, since a totalitarian government holds complete control over all means of communication (not only public communication such as the mass media, but also private communication such as letters and telephone calls, which are strictly monitored). The methods of propaganda were very similar in the Stalinist USSR and in Nazi Germany. Both Joseph Goebbels and Soviet propagandists sought to demonize their enemies and present a picture of a united people standing behind its leader to confront foreign threats. In both cases there was no attempt to convey complex ideological nuances to the masses, with the message being instead about a simplistic struggle between good and evil. Both Nazi and Stalinist regimes produced two very different sets of propaganda – one for internal consumption and one for potential sympathizers in other countries. And both regimes would sometimes radically change their propaganda line as they made peace with a former enemy or got into a war with a former ally. Yet, paradoxically, a totalitarian government’s complete control over communications renders that government highly misinformed. With no way for anyone to express criticism, the dictator has no way of knowing how much support he actually has among the general populace. With all government policies always declared successful in propaganda, officials are unable to determine what actually worked and what didn’t. Both Stalinism and Nazism suffered from this problem, especially during the war between them. As the war turned against Germany, there was growing opposition to Hitler’s rule, including within the ranks of the military, but Hitler was never aware of this until it was too late (see: 20 July plot). In 1948, during the early days of the Berlin Blockade, the Soviet leadership apparently believed that the population of West Berlin was sympathetic to Soviet Communism and that they would request to join the Soviet zone. Given enough time, the gap between real public opinion and what the totalitarian government believes about public opinion can grow so wide that the government is no longer able to even produce effective propaganda, because it does not know what the people actually think and so it does not know what to tell them. Friedrich and Brzezinski refer to this as the “ritualization of propaganda”: the totalitarian regime continues to produce propaganda as a political ritual, with little real impact on public opinion.\n\nThe totalitarian use of mass arrests, executions and concentration camps – also noted by Arendt – was analyzed at length by Friedrich and Brzezinski. They hold that “totalitarian terror maintains, in institutionalized form, the civil war that originally produced the totalitarian movement and by means of which the regime is able to proceed with its program, first of social disintegration and then of social reconstruction.” Both Stalinism and Nazism saw themselves as engaging in a life-or-death struggle against implacable enemies. But to declare that the struggle had been won would have meant to declare that most of the totalitarian features of the government were no longer needed. A secret police force, for instance, has no reason to exist if there are no dangerous traitors who need to be found. Thus the struggle, or “civil war” against internal enemies, must be institutionalized and must continue indefinitely. In the Stalinist USSR, the repressive apparatus was eventually turned against members of the Communist Party itself in the Great Purge and the show trials that accompanied it. Nazism, by contrast, had a much shorter lifespan in power, and Nazi terror generally maintained an outward focus, with the extermination of the Jews always given top priority. The Nazis did not turn inward towards purging their own party except in a limited way on two occasions (the Night of the Long Knives and the aftermath of the 20 July plot). \n\nThe peak of totalitarian terror was reached with the Nazi concentration camps. These ranged from labor camps to extermination camps, and they are described by Friedrich and Brzezinski as aiming to “eliminate all actual, potential, and imagined enemies of the regime.” As the field of Holocaust studies was still in its early stages at the time of their writing, they do not describe the conditions in detail, but do refer to the camps as involving “extreme viciousness.” They also compare these camps with the Soviet Gulag system, and highlight the use of concentration camps as a method of punishment and execution by Nazi and Stalinist regimes alike. However, unlike Hannah Arendt, who held that the Gulag camps served no economic purpose, Friedrich and Brzezinski argue that they provided an important source of cheap labor for the Stalinist economy.\n\nThe comparative study of Nazism and Stalinism was carried further by other groups of scholars, such as Moshe Lewin and Ian Kershaw together with their collaborators. Writing after the dissolution of the USSR, Lewin and Kershaw take a longer historical perspective and regard Nazism and Stalinism not so much as examples of a new type of society (like Arendt, Friedrich and Brzezinski did), but more as historical “anomalies” – unusual deviations from the typical path of development that most industrial societies are expected to follow. Therefore, the task of comparing Nazism and Stalinism is, to them, a task of explaining why Germany and Russia (along with other countries) deviated from the historical norm. At the outset, Lewin and Kershaw identify similarities between the historical situations in Germany and Russia prior to the First World War and during that war. Both countries were ruled by authoritarian monarchies, who were under pressure to make concessions to popular demands. Both countries had “powerful bureaucracies and strong military traditions.” Both had “powerful landowning classes,” while also being in the process of rapid industrialization and modernization. And both countries had expansionist foreign policies with a particular interest in Central and Eastern Europe. Lewin and Kershaw do not claim that these factors made Stalinism or Nazism inevitable, but rather that they help to explain why the Stalinist and Nazi regimes developed similar features.\n\nIan Kershaw admitted that Stalinism and Nazism are comparable in “the nature and extent of their inhumanity,” but noted that the two regimes were different in a number of aspects Lewin and Kershaw question the usefulness of grouping the Stalinist and Nazi regimes together under a “totalitarian” category, saying that it remains an open question whether the similarities between them are greater or smaller than the differences. In particular, they criticize what they see as the ideologically-motivated attempt to determine which regime killed more people, saying that apologists of each regime are trying to defend their side by claiming the other was responsible for more deaths.\n\nLewin and Kershaw place the cult of personality at the center of their comparison of Nazism and Stalinism, writing that both regimes “represented a new genre of political system centred upon the artificial construct of a leadership cult – the ‘heroic myth’ of the ‘great leader’, no longer a king or emperor but a ‘man of the people.” With regard to Stalinism, they emphasize its bureaucratic character, and its “merging of the most modern with the most archaic traits” by combining modern technology and the latest methods of administration and propaganda with the ancient practice of arbitrary rule by a single man. They compare this with the Prussian military tradition in Germany, which had been called “bureaucratic absolutism” in the eighteenth century, and which played a significant role in the organization of the Nazi state in the twentieth century.\n\nKershaw agrees with Mommsen that there was a fundamental difference between Nazism and Stalinism regarding the importance of the leader. Stalinism had an absolute leader, but he was not essential. He could be replaced by another. Nazism, on the other hand, was a “classic charismatic leadership movement,” defined entirely by its leader. Stalinism had an ideology which existed independently of Stalin. But for Nazism, “Hitler \"was\" ideological orthodoxy” – Nazi ideals were by definition whatever Hitler said they were. In Stalinism, the bureaucratic apparatus was the foundation of the system, while in Nazism, the person of the leader was the foundation.\n\nMoshe Lewin also focuses on the comparison between the personality cults of Hitler and Stalin, and their respective roles in Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union. He refers to them as the “Hitler myth” and the “Stalin myth,” and argues that they served different functions within their two regimes. The function of the “Hitler myth” was to legitimize Nazi rule. The function of the “Stalin myth” was to legitimize not Soviet rule itself, but Stalin’s leadership within the Party. Stalin’s personality cult existed precisely because Stalin knew that he was replaceable, and feared that he might be replaced, and so needed to bolster his authority as much as possible. While the “Hitler myth” was essential to Nazi Germany, the “Stalin myth” was essential only to Stalin, not to the Soviet Union itself.\n\nTogether with fellow historian Hans Mommsen, Lewin argues that the Stalinist and Nazi regimes featured an “intrinsic structural contradiction” which led to “inherent self-destructiveness”: they depended on a highly organized state bureaucracy which was trying to set up complex rules and procedures for every aspect of life, yet this bureaucracy was under the complete personal control of a despot who made policy decisions as he saw fit, routinely changing his mind on major issues, without any regard for the rules and institutions which his own bureaucracy had set up. The bureaucracy and the leader needed each other, but also undermined each other with their different priorities. Mommsen sees this as being a much greater problem in Nazi Germany than in Stalin’s Soviet Union, as the Nazis inherited large parts of the traditional German bureaucracy, while the Soviets largely built their own bureaucracy from the ground up. He argues that many of the irrational features of the Nazi regime – such as wasting resources on exterminating undesirable populations instead of using those resources in the war effort – were caused by the dysfunction of the Nazi state rather than by fanatical commitment to Nazi ideology. In accordance with the Führerprinzip, all decisional power in the Nazi state ultimately rested with Hitler. But Hitler often issued only vague and general directives, forcing other Nazi leaders lower down in the hierarchy to guess what precisely the Führer wanted. This confusion produced competition between Nazi officials, as each of them attempted to prove that he was a more dedicated Nazi than his rivals, by engaging in ever more extreme policies. This competition to please Hitler was, according to Mommsen, the real cause of Nazi irrationality. Hitler was aware of it, and deliberately encouraged it out of a “social-darwinist conviction that the best man would ultimately prevail.” Mommsen argues that this represents a structural difference between the regimes of Hitler and Stalin. In spite of its purges, Stalin’s regime was more effective in building a stable bureaucracy, such that it was possible for the system to sustain itself and continue even without Stalin. The Nazi regime, on the other hand, was much more personalized and depended entirely on Hitler, being unable to build any lasting institutions.\n\nKershaw also saw major personal differences between Stalin and Hitler and their respective styles of rule. He describes Stalin as “a committee man, chief oligarch, man of the machine” and a “creature of his party,” who came to power only thanks to his party and his ability to manipulate the levers of power within that party. Hitler, by contrast, came to power based on his charisma and mass appeal, and in the Nazi regime it was the leader that created the party instead of the other way around. According to Kershaw, “Stalin was a highly interventionist dictator, sending a stream of letters and directives determining or interfering with policy,” while Hitler “was a non-interventionist dictator as far as government administration was concerned,” preferring to involve himself in military affairs and plans for conquest rather than the daily routine of government work, and giving only broad verbal instructions to his subordinates regarding civilian affairs, which they were expected to translate into policy. Furthermore, although both regimes featured all-pervasive cults of personality, there was a qualitative difference between those cults. Stalin’s personality cult was “superimposed upon the Marxist-Leninist ideology and Communist Party,” and could be abandoned (or replaced with a personality cult around some other leader) without major changes to the regime. On the other hand, “the ‘Hitler myth’ was structurally indispensable to, in fact the very basis of, and scarcely distinguishable from, the Nazi Movement and its \"Weltanschauung\".” The belief in the person of Adolf Hitler as the unique savior of the German nation was the very foundation of Nazism, to such an extent that Nazism found it impossible to even imagine a successor to Hitler. Thus, in Kershaw’s analysis, Stalinism was a fundamentally bureaucratic system while Nazism was the embodiment of “charismatic authority” as described by Max Weber. Stalinism could exist without its leader. Nazism could not. \n\nThe topic of comparisons between Nazism and Stalinism was also studied in the 1990s and 2000s by historians Henry Rousso, Nicolas Werth and Philippe Burrin.\n\nRousso defends the work of Carl Friedrich by pointing out that Friedrich himself had only said that Stalinism and Nazism were comparable, not that they were identical. Rousso also argues that the popularity of the concept of totalitarianism (the way that large numbers of people have come to routinely refer to certain governments as “totalitarian”) should be seen as evidence that the concept is useful, that it really describes a specific type of government which is different from other dictatorships. At the same time, however, Rousso notes that the concept of totalitarianism is descriptive rather than analytical: the regimes described as totalitarian do not have a common origin and did not arise in similar ways. Nazism is unique among totalitarian regimes in having taken power in “a country endowed with an advanced industrial economy and with a system of political democracy (and an even older political pluralism).” All other examples of totalitarianism (including the Stalinist regime) took power, according to Rousso, “in an agrarian economy, in a poor society without a tradition of political pluralism, not to mention democracy, and where diverse forms of tyranny had traditionally prevailed.” He sees this as a weakness of the concept of totalitarianism, because it merely describes the similarities between Stalinism and Nazism without dealing with the very different ways they came to power. On the other hand, Rousso agrees with Hannah Arendt that “totalitarian regimes constitute something new in regard to classical tyranny, authoritarian regimes, or other forms of ancient and medieval dictatorships,” and he says that the main strength of the concept of totalitarianism is the way it highlights this inherent novelty of the regimes involved.\n\nNicolas Werth and Philippe Burrin have worked together on comparative assessments of Stalinism and Nazism, with Werth covering the Stalinist regime and Burrin covering Nazi Germany. One of the topics they have studied is the question of how much power the dictator really held in the two regimes. Werth identifies two main historiographical approaches in the study of the Stalinist regime: Those who emphasize the power and control exercised by Joseph Stalin himself, attributing most of the actions of the Soviet government to deliberate plans and decisions made by him, and those who argue that Stalin had no pre-determined course of action in mind, that he was reacting to events as they unfolded, and that the Soviet bureaucracy had its own agenda which often differed from Stalin’s wishes. Werth regards these as two mistaken extremes, one making Stalin seem all-powerful, the other making him seem like a weak dictator. But he believes that the competing perspectives are useful in drawing attention to the tension between two different forms of organization in the Stalinist USSR: an “administrative system of command,” bureaucratic and resistant to change but effective in running the Soviet state, and the strategy of “running the country in a crudely despotic way by Stalin and his small cadre of directors.” Thus, Werth agrees with Lewin that there was an inherent conflict between the priorities of the Soviet bureaucracy and Stalin’s accumulation of absolute power in his own hands. According to Werth, it was this unresolved and unstated conflict that led to the Great Purge and to the use of terror by Stalin’s regime against its own party and state cadres.\n\nIn studying similar issues with regard to the Nazi regime, Philippe Burrin draws attention to the debate between the “Intentionalist” and “Functionalist” schools of thought, which dealt with the question of whether the Nazi regime represented an extension of Hitler’s autocratic will, faithfully obeying his wishes, or whether it was an essentially chaotic and uncontrollable system that functioned on its own with little direct input from the Führer. Like Kershaw and Lewin, Burrin says that the relationship between the leader and his party’s ideology was different in Nazism compared to Stalinism: “One can rightly state that Nazism cannot be dissociated from Hitlerism, something that is difficult to affirm for Bolshevism and Stalinism.” Unlike Stalin, who inherited an existing system with an existing ideology and presented himself as the heir to the Leninist political tradition, Hitler created both his movement and its ideology by himself, claiming to be “someone sent by Providence, a Messiah whom the German people had been expecting for centuries, even for two thousand years, as Heinrich Himmler enjoyed saying.” Thus, there could be no real conflict between the Party and the leader in Nazi Germany, because the Nazi Party’s entire reason for existence was to support and follow Hitler. However, there was a potential for division between the leader and the state bureaucracy, due to the way that Nazism came to power – as part of an alliance with traditional conservative elites, industrialists, and the army. Unlike the USSR, Nazi Germany did not build its own state, but rather inherited the state machinery of the previous government. This provided the Nazis with an immediate supply of capable and experienced managers and military commanders, but on the other hand it also meant that the Nazi regime had to rely on the cooperation of people who had not been Nazis prior to Hitler’s rise to power, and whose loyalty was questionable. It was only during the war, when Nazi Germany conquered large territories and had to create Nazi administrations for them, that brand new Nazi bureaucracies were created without any input or participation from traditional German elites. This produced a surprising difference between Nazism and Stalinism: When the Stalinist USSR conquered territory, it created smaller copies of itself and installed them as the governments of the occupied countries. When Nazi Germany conquered territory, on the other hand, it did not attempt to create copies of the German government back home. Instead, it experimented with different power structures and policies, often reflecting a “far more ample Nazification of society than what the balance of power authorized in the Reich.”\n\nAnother major topic investigated by Werth and Burrin was the violence and terror employed by the regimes of Hitler and Stalin. Werth reports that the Stalinist USSR underwent an “extraordinary brutalization of the relations between state and society” for the purpose of rapid modernization and industrialization, to “gain one hundred years in one decade, and to metamorphose the country into a great industrial power.” This transformation was accomplished at the cost of massive violence and a sociopolitical regression into what Werth calls “military-feudal exploitation.” The types of violence employed by the Stalinist regime included loss of civil rights, mass arrests, deportations of entire ethnic groups from one part of the USSR to another, forced labor in the Gulag, mass executions (especially during the Great Terror of 1937-38), and most of all the great famine of 1932-33, known as the Holodomor. All levels of Soviet society were affected by Stalinist repression, from the top to the bottom. At the top, high-ranking members of the Communist Party were arrested and executed under the claim that they had plotted against Stalin (and in some cases they were forced to confess to imaginary crimes in show trials). At the bottom, the peasantry suffered the Holodomor famine (especially in Ukraine), and even outside of the famine years they were faced with very high grain quotas.\n\nWerth identifies four categories of people that became the targets of Stalinist violence in the USSR. He lists them from smallest to largest. The first and smallest group consisted of many of Stalin’s former comrades-in-arms, who had participated in the revolution and were known as “Old Bolsheviks.” They were dangerous to Stalin because they had known him before his rise to power and could expose the many false claims made by his personality cult. The second group consisted of mid-level Communist Party officials, who were subject to mass arrests and executions in the late 1930s, particularly during the Great Purge. Eliminating them served a dual purpose: It helped Stalin to centralize power in the Kremlin (as opposed to regional centers), and it also provided him with “corrupt officials” that he could blame for earlier repressions and unpopular policies. Werth draws parallels between this and the old Tsarist tradition of blaming “bad bureaucrats” – rather than the Tsar – for unpopular government actions. The third group was made up of ordinary citizens from all walks of life who resorted to petty crime in order to provide for themselves in the face of worsening living standards (for example by taking home some wheat from the fields or tools from the factory). This type of petty crime became very widespread, and was often punished as if it were intentional sabotage motivated by political opposition to the USSR. The fourth and largest category consisted of ethnic groups that were subject to deportation, famine, or arbitrary arrests under the suspicion of being collectively disloyal to Stalin or to the Soviet state. This included the Holodomor famine directed at the Ukrainians, the deportation of ethnic groups suspected of pro-German sympathies (such as the Volga Germans, the Crimean Tatars, the Chechens and others), and eventually also persecution of ethnic Jews, especially as Stalin grew increasingly antisemitic near the end of his life.\n\nBurrin’s study of violence carried out by the Nazi regime begins with the observation that “violence is at the heart of Nazism,” and that Nazi violence is “established as a doctrine and exalted in speech.” This marks a point of difference between Nazism and Stalinism, according to Burrin. In Stalinism, there was a gulf between ideology and reality when it came to violence. The Soviet regime continuously denied that it was repressive, proclaimed itself a defender of peace, and sought to conceal all the evidence to the contrary. In Nazism, on the other hand, “doctrine and reality were fused from the start.” Nazism not only practiced violent repression and war, but advocated it in principle as well, considering war to be a positive force in human civilization and openly seeking ”living space” and the domination of the European continent by ethnic Germans.\n\nBurrin identifies three motivations for Nazi violence: political repression, exclusion and social repression, and racial politics. The first of these, political repression, is common in many dictatorships. The Nazis aimed to eliminate their real or imagined political opponents, first in the Reich and later in the occupied territories during the war. Some of these opponents were executed, while others were imprisoned in concentration camps. The first targets of political repression, immediately after Hitler’s rise to power in 1933, were the parties of the Left in general and the Communists in particular. Then, after the mid-1930s, repression was extended to members of the clergy, and later to the conservative opposition as well (especially after the failed attempt to assassinate Hitler in 1944). The death penalty was used on a wide scale, even before the war. During the war, political repression was greatly expanded both inside Germany and especially in the newly occupied territories. Political prisoners in the concentration camps numbered only about 25,000 at the beginning of the war. By January 1945 they had swelled to 714,211 – most of them non-Germans accused of plotting against the Reich.\n\nThe second type of Nazi violence, motivated by exclusion and social repression, was the violence aimed at purging German society of people whose lifestyle was considered incompatible with the social norms of the Nazi regime (even if the people involved were racially pure and able-bodied). Such people were divided into two categories: homosexuals and “asocials.” The “asocials” were only vaguely defined, and included “Gypsies, tramps, beggars, prostitutes, alcoholics, the jobless who refused any employment, and those who left their work frequently or for no reason.”\n\nThe third and final type of Nazi violence, by far the most extensive, was violence motivated by Nazi racial policies. This was aimed both inward, to cleanse the “Aryan race” of “degenerate” elements and life unworthy of life, as well as outward, to seek the extermination of “inferior races”. Germans considered physically or mentally unfit were among the first victims. One of the first laws of the Nazi regime mandated the forced sterilization of people suffering from physical handicaps or who had psychiatric conditions deemed to be hereditary. Later, sterilization was replaced by murder of the mentally ill and of people with severe disabilities, as part of a “euthanasia” program called Aktion T4. Burrin notes that this served no practical political purpose – the people being murdered could not have possibly been political opponents of the regime – so the motivation was purely a matter of racial ideology. The most systematic and by far the most large-scale acts of Nazi violence, however, were directed at “racially inferior” non-German populations. As laid out in \"Generalplan Ost\", the Nazis wished to eliminate most of the Slavic populations of Eastern Europe, partly through deportation and partly through murder, in order to secure land for ethnic German settlement and colonization. But even more urgently, the Nazis wished to exterminate the Jews of Europe, whom they regarded as the implacable racial enemy of the Germans. This culminated in the Holocaust, the Nazi genocide of the Jews. Unlike in the case of all other target populations, the Jews were to be exterminated completely, with no individual exceptions for any reason.\n\nIn \"Beyond Totalitarianism: Stalinism and Nazism Compared\", editors Michael Geyer and Sheila Fitzpatrick disputed the concept of totalitarianism, noting that the term entered political discourse first as a term of self-description by the Italian Fascists and was only later used as a framework to compare Nazi Germany with the Soviet Union. They argued that the totalitarian states were not as monolithic or as ideology-driven as they seemed. Geyer and Fitzpatrick describe Nazi Germany and the Stalinist USSR as “immensely powerful, threatening, and contagious dictatorships” who “shook the world in their antagonism.” Without calling them totalitarian, they identified their common features, including genocide, an all-powerful party, a charismatic leader, and pervasive invasion of privacy. However, they argue that Stalinism and Nazism did not represent a new and unique type of government, but rather that they can be placed in the broader context of the turn to dictatorship in Europe in the interwar period. The reason they appear extraordinary is because they were the “most prominent, most hard-headed, and most violent” of the European dictatorships of the 20th century. They are comparable because of their “shock and awe” and sheer ruthlessness, but underneath superficial similarities they were fundamentally different and that “when it comes to one-on-one comparison, the two societies and regimes may as well have hailed from different worlds.”\n\nAccording to Geyer and Fitzpatrick, the similarities between Nazism and Stalinism stem from the fact that they were both “ideology driven” and sought to subordinate all aspects of life to their respective ideologies. The differences stem from the fact that their ideologies were opposed to each other and regarded each other as enemies. Another major difference is that Stalin created a stable and long-lasting regime, while Nazi Germany had a “short-lived, explosive nature.” Notably, the stable state created by Stalinism was based on an entirely new elite, while Nazism, despite having the support of the traditional elite, failed to achieve stability.\n\nHowever, the two regimes did borrow ideas from one another, especially regarding propaganda techniques (most of all in architecture and cinema), but also in terms of state surveillance and antisemitism. At the same time, they both vigorously denied borrowing anything from each other. While their methods of propaganda were similar, the content was different. For instance, Soviet wartime propaganda revolved around the idea of resisting imperial aggression, while Nazi propaganda was about wars of racial conquest. Geyer and Fitzpatrick also take note of the fact that both Stalinism and Nazism sought to create a New Man, an “entirely modern, illiberal, and self-fashioned personage,” even though they had different visions about what being a “New Man” would mean.\n\nAmong the other authors contributing to the volume edited by Geyer and Fitzpatrick, David Hoffmann and Annette Timm discuss biopolitics and the pro-natalist policies of the Nazi and Stalinist regimes. Both governments were highly concerned over low fertility rates in their respective populations, and applied extensive and intrusive social engineering techniques to increase the number of births. Reproductive policies in the Soviet Union and Nazi Germany were administered through their health care systems—both regimes saw health care as a key pillar to their designs to develop a new society. While the Soviet Union had to design a public health care system from scratch, Nazi Germany built upon the pre-existing public health care system in Germany that had existed since 1883, when Otto von Bismarck's legislation had created the world's first national public health care program. The Nazis centralized the German health care system in order to enforce Nazi ideological components upon it, and replaced existing voluntary and government welfare agencies with new ones that were devoted to racial hygiene and other components of Nazi ideology.\n\nThe Nazi and Stalinist attempt to control family size was not unique, as many other European states practiced eugenics at this time, and the Stalinist and Nazi ideals were vastly different. In fact, they had more in common with third parties than with each other: Nazi Germany’s policies were rather similar to those in Scandinavia at the time, while the USSR’s policies resembled those in Catholic countries.The common point between Nazi and Stalinist practices was the connection of reproduction policies with the ideological goals of the state — \"part of the project of a rational, hypermodern vision for the re-organization of society\". There were nevertheless substantial differences between the two regimes' approaches. Stalin's Soviet Union never officially supported eugenics as the Nazis did—the Soviet government called eugenics a \"fascist science\"—although there were in fact Soviet eugenicists. The two regimes also had different approaches to the relationship between family and paid labor—Nazism promoted the male single-breadwinner family while Stalinism promoted the dual-wage-earner household.\n\nIn another contribution to the same volume, Christian Gerlach and Nicolas Werth discuss the topic of mass violence, and the way that it was used by both Stalinism and Nazism. Both Stalin's Soviet Union and Nazi Germany were violent societies where mass violence was accepted by the state, such as in the Great Terror of 1937 to 1938 in the Soviet Union and the Holocaust in Nazi Germany and its occupied territories in World War II.\n\nBoth the Stalinist Soviet Union and Nazi Germany utilized internment camps led by agents of the state – the NKVD in the Soviet Union and the SS in Nazi Germany. They also both engaged in violence against minorities based on xenophobia – the xenophobic violence of the Nazis was outspoken but rationalized as being against \"asocial\" elements while the xenophobic violence of the Stalinists was disguised as being against \"anti-soviet\", \"counter-revolutionary\" and \"socially harmful\" elements – a term which often targeted diaspora nationalities. The Stalinist Soviet Union established \"special settlements\" where the \"socially harmful\" or \"socially dangerous\" who included ex-convicts, criminals, vagrants, the disenfranchised and \"declassed elements\" were expelled to. These \"special settlements\" were largely in Siberia, the far north, the Urals, or other inhospitable territories. In July 1933, the Soviet Union made a mass arrest of 5000 Romani people effectively on the basis of their ethnicity, who were deported that month to the \"special settlements\" in Western Siberia. In 1935, the Soviet Union arrested 160,000 homeless people and juvenile delinquents and sent many of them to NKVD labor colonies where they did forced labor.\n\nThe Nazi regime was founded upon a racialist view of politics and envisioned the deportation or extermination of the majority of the population of Eastern Europe in order to open up “living space” for ethnic German settlers. This was mainly intended to be carried out after an eventual German victory in the war, but steps had already started being taken while the war was still ongoing. For instance, by the end of 1942, the Nazis had deported 365,000 Poles and Jews from their original homes in western Poland (now German-annexed) and into the General Government. A further 194,000 Poles were internally displaced (not deported to another territory but expelled from their homes). The Nazis had also deported 100,000 persons from Alsace, Lorraine, and Luxembourg, as well as 54,000 Slovenians.\n\nStalinism in practice in the Soviet Union pursued ethnic deportations from the 1930s to the early 1950s, with a total of 3 million Soviet citizens being subjected to ethnic-based resettlement. The first major ethnic deportation took place from December 1932 to January 1933, during which some 60,000 Kuban Cossacks were collectively criminally charged as a whole with association with resistance to socialism and affiliation with Ukrainian nationalism. From 1935 to 1936, the Soviet Union deported Soviet citizens of Polish and German origins living in the western districts of Ukraine, and Soviet citizens of Finnish origins living on the Finland-Soviet Union border. These deportations from 1935 to 1936 affected tens of thousands of families. From September to October 1937, Soviet authorities deported the Korean minority from its Far Eastern region that bordered on Japanese-controlled Korea. Soviet authorities claimed the territory was \"rich soil for the Japanese to till\" – implying a Soviet suspicion that the Koreans could potentially join forces with the Japanese to unite the land with Japanese-held Korea. Over 170,000 Koreans were deported to remote parts of Soviet Central Asia from September to October 1937. These ethnically-based deportations reflected a new trend in Stalinist policy, a \"Soviet xenophobia\" based on ideological grounds that suspected that these people were susceptible to foreign influence, and which was also based on a resurgent Russian nationalism.\n\nAfter Nazi Germany declared war on the Soviet Union in 1941, the Soviet Union initiated another major round of ethnic deportations. The first group targeted were Soviet Germans. Between September 1941 and February 1942, 900,000 people – over 70 percent of the entire Soviet German community – were deported to Kazakhstan and Siberia in mass operations. A second wave of mass deportations took place between November 1943 and May 1944, in which Soviet authorities expelled six ethnic groups (the Balkars, Chechens, Crimean Tatars, Ingush, Karachai, and Kalmyks) that together numbered 900,000. There were also smaller-scale operations involving ethnic cleansing of diaspora minorities during and after World War II, in which tens of thousands of Crimean Bulgarians, Greeks, Iranians, Khemshils, Kurds, and Meskhetian Turks were deported from the Black Sea and Transcaucasian border regions.\n\nTwo ethnic groups that were specifically targeted for persecution by Stalin's Soviet Union were the Chechens and the Ingush. Unlike the other nationalities that could be suspected of connection to foreign states which shared their ethnic background, the Chechens and the Ingush were completely indigenous people of the Soviet Union. Rather than being accused of collaboration with foreign enemies, these two ethnic groups were considered to have cultures which did not fit in with Soviet culture – such as accusing Chechens of being associated with “banditism” – and the authorities claimed that the Soviet Union had to intervene in order to “remake” and “reform” these cultures. In practice this meant heavily armed punitive operations carried out against Chechen “bandits” that failed to achieve forced assimilation, culminating in an ethnic cleansing operation in 1944, which involved the arrests and deportation of over 500,000 Chechens and Ingush from the Caucasus to Central Asia and Kazakhstan. The deportations of the Chechens and Ingush also involved the outright massacre of thousands of people, and severe conditions placed upon the deportees – they were put in unsealed train cars, with little to no food for a four-week journey during which many died from hunger and exhaustion.\n\nThe main difference between Nazi and Stalinist deportations was in their purpose: while Nazi Germany sought ethnic cleansing to allow settlement by Germans into the cleansed territory, Stalin's Soviet Union pursued ethnic cleansing in order to remove minorities from strategically important areas.\n\nOther historians and political scientists have also made comparisons between Nazism and Stalinism as part of their work.\n\nStanley Payne, in his work on fascism, said that although the Nazi Party was ideologically opposed to communism, Adolf Hitler and other Nazi leaders frequently expressed recognition that only in Soviet Russia were their revolutionary and ideological counterparts to be found. Both placed a major emphasis on creating a \"party-army,\" with the regular armed forces controlled by the party. In the case of the Soviet Union this was done through the political commissars, while Nazi Germany introduced a roughly equivalent leadership role for \"National Socialist Guidance Officers\" in 1943.\n\nFrançois Furet, in his work on communism, noted that Hitler personally admired Soviet leader Joseph Stalin, and on numerous occasions publicly praised Stalin for seeking to purify the Communist Party of the Soviet Union of Jewish influences, especially by purging Jewish communists such as Leon Trotsky, Grigory Zinoviev, Lev Kamenev and Karl Radek.\n\nRichard Pipes draws attention to Stalin and his antisemitism in a parallel with Nazi antisemitism. He notes that soon after the 1917 October Revolution, the Soviet Union undertook practices to break up Jewish culture, religion and language. In the fall of 1918, the Soviet Communist Party set up the Jewish section Yevsektsiya, with a stated mission of “destruction of traditional Jewish life, the Zionist movement, and Hebrew culture.” By 1919, the Bolsheviks began to confiscate Jewish properties, Hebrew schools, libraries, books, and synagogues in accordance with newly imposed anti-religious laws, turning their buildings into \"Communist centers, clubs or restaurants.\" After Joseph Stalin rose to power, antisemitism continued to be endemic throughout Russia, although official Soviet policy condemned it. On August 12, 1952, Stalin's personal antisemitism became more visible, as he ordered the execution of the most prominent Yiddish authors in the Soviet Union, in an event known as the \"Night of the Murdered Poets\". Shortly before his death, Stalin also organized the anti-Semitic campaign known as the Doctors' plot.\n\nA number of research institutions are focusing on the analysis of fascism/Nazism and Stalinism/communism, and the comparative approach, including the Hannah Arendt Institute for the Research on Totalitarianism in Germany, the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes in the Czech Republic and the Institute of National Remembrance in Poland.\n\nIn comparing the deaths caused by both Stalin and Hitler's policies, some historians have asserted that archival evidence released after the collapse of the USSR confirms that Stalin did not kill more people than Hitler. American historian Timothy D. Snyder, for example, after assessing such data, says that while the Nazi regime killed approximately 11 million non-combatants (which rises to above 12 million if \"foreseeable deaths from deportation, hunger, and sentences in concentration camps are included\"), Stalin's deliberately killed about 6 million (rising to 9 million if foreseeable deaths arising from policies are taken into account). Australian historian and archival researcher Stephen G. Wheatcroft posits that \"The Stalinist regime was consequently responsible for about a million purposive killings, and through its criminal neglect and irresponsibility it was probably responsible for the premature deaths of about another two million more victims amongst the repressed population, i.e. in the camps, colonies, prisons, exile, in transit and in the POW camps for Germans. These are clearly much lower figures than those for whom Hitler's regime was responsible.\" Wheatcroft also says that, unlike Hitler, Stalin's \"purposive killings\" fit more closely into the category of \"execution\" than \"murder\", given he thought the accused were indeed guilty of crimes against the state and insisted on documentation, whereas Hitler simply wanted to kill Jews and communists because of who they were, and insisted on no documentation and was indifferent at even a pretence of legality for these actions.\n\nKristen R. Ghodsee, an ethnographer of post-Cold War Eastern Europe, contends that the efforts to institutionalize the \"double genocide thesis\", or the moral equivalence between the Nazi Holocaust (race murder) and the victims of communism (class murder), and in particular the recent push at the beginning of the global financial crisis for commemoration of the latter in Europe, can be seen as the response by economic and political elites to fears of a leftist resurgence in the face of devastated economies and extreme inequalities in both the East and West as the result of neoliberal capitalism. She notes that any discussion of the achievements under communism, including literacy, education, women’s rights, and social security is usually silenced, and any discourse on the subject of communism is focused almost exclusively on Stalin's crimes and the \"double genocide thesis\", an intellectual paradigm summed up as such: \"1) any move towards redistribution and away from a completely free market is seen as communist; 2) anything communist inevitably leads to class murder; and 3) class murder is the moral equivalent of the Holocaust.\" By linking all leftist and socialist ideals to the excesses of Stalinism, Ghodsee concludes, the elites in the West hope to discredit and marginalize all political ideologies that could \"threaten the primacy of private property and free markets.\"\n\nThe comparison of Stalinism and Nazism remains a neglected field of academic study.\n\nThe comparison of Nazism and Stalinism has long provoked political controversy, and it led to the historians' dispute within Germany in the 1980s.\n\nIn the 1920s, the Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD), under the leadership of Chancellor Hermann Müller, adopted the view that \"red equals brown\", i.e. that the communists and Nazis posed an equal danger to liberal democracy. In 1930, Kurt Schumacher said that the two movements enabled each other. He argued that the Communist Party of Germany, which was staunchly Stalinist, were \"red-painted Nazis.\" This comparison was mirrored by the social fascism theory advanced by the Soviet government and the Comintern (including the Communist Party of Germany), which accused social democracy of enabling fascism and went as far as to call social democrats \"social fascists.\" After the 1939 Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact was announced, \"The New York Times\" published an editorial arguing that \"Hitlerism is brown communism, Stalinism is red fascism.\"\n\nMarxist theories of fascism have seen fascism as a form of reaction to socialism and a feature of capitalism. Several modern historians have tried to pay more attention to the economic, political and ideological differences between these two regimes than to their similarities. \n\nThe 2008 Prague Declaration on European Conscience and Communism, initiated by the Czech government and signed by figures such as Václav Havel, called for \"a common approach regarding crimes of totalitarian regimes, inter alia Communist regimes\" and for\nThe Communist Party of Greece opposes the Prague Declaration and has criticized \"the new escalation of the anti-communist hysteria led by the EU council, the European Commission and the political staff of the bourgeois class in the European Parliament.\" The Communist Party of Britain opined that the Prague Declaration \"is a rehash of the persistent attempts by reactionary historians to equate Soviet Communism and Hitlerite Fascism, echoing the old slanders of British authors George Orwell and Robert Conquest.\"\n\nThe 2008 documentary film \"The Soviet Story\", commissioned by the Union for Europe of the Nations group in the European Parliament, published archival records which listed thousands of German Jews who were arrested in the Soviet Union by the NKVD (People's Commissariat for Internal Affairs) from 1937 to 1941 and handed over to Gestapo or SS officials in Germany. These German Jews had originally sought asylum in the USSR. The documentary film accuses Stalin's regime of being an accomplice in Hitler's Holocaust by arresting these asylum seekers and sending them back to Germany.\n\nSince 2009, the European Union has officially commemorated the European Day of Remembrance for Victims of Stalinism and Nazism, proclaimed by the European Parliament in 2008 and endorsed by the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe in 2009, and officially known as the Black Ribbon Day in some countries (including Canada).\n\nThe former President of the European Parliament and Christian Democratic Union member, Hans-Gert Pöttering, argued that \"both totalitarian systems (Stalinism and Nazism) are comparable and terrible.\"\n\nIn some Eastern European countries the denial of both Nazi and Communist crimes has been explicitly outlawed, and Czech foreign minister Karel Schwarzenberg has argued that \"there is a fundamental concern here that totalitarian systems be measured by the same standard.\" However, the European Commission rejected calls for similar EU-wide legislation, due to the lack of consensus among member states.\n\nA statement adopted by Russia's legislature said that comparisons of Nazism and Stalinism are \"blasphemous towards all of the anti-fascist movement veterans, Holocaust victims, concentration camp prisoners and tens of millions of people ... who sacrificed their lives for the sake of the fight against the Nazis' anti-human racial theory.\"\n\nBritish journalist Seumas Milne posits that the impact of the post-Cold War narrative that Stalin and Hitler were twin evils, and therefore Communism is as monstrous as Nazism, \"has been to relativise the unique crimes of Nazism, bury those of colonialism and feed the idea that any attempt at radical social change will always lead to suffering, killing and failure.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8544676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8544676", "title": "Counterculture of the 1960s", "text": "Counterculture of the 1960s\n\nThe counterculture of the 1960s was an anti-establishment cultural phenomenon that developed first in the United Kingdom (UK) and the United States (US) and then spread throughout much of the Western world between the mid-1960s and the mid-1970s, with London, New York City, and San Francisco being hotbeds of early countercultural activity. The aggregate movement gained momentum as the Civil Rights Movement continued to grow, and would later become revolutionary with the expansion of the U.S. government's extensive military intervention in Vietnam. As the 1960s progressed, widespread social tensions also developed concerning other issues, and tended to flow along generational lines regarding human sexuality, women's rights, traditional modes of authority, experimentation with psychoactive drugs, and differing interpretations of the American Dream. Many key movements related to these issues were born or advanced within the counterculture of the 1960s.\n\nAs the era unfolded, new cultural forms and a dynamic subculture which celebrated experimentation, modern incarnations of Bohemianism, and the rise of the hippie and other alternative lifestyles, emerged. This embracing of creativity is particularly notable in the works of British Invasion bands such as The Beatles, and filmmakers whose works became far less restricted by censorship. In addition to the trendsetting Beatles, many other creative artists, authors, and thinkers, within and across many disciplines, helped define the counterculture movement.\n\nSeveral factors distinguished the counterculture of the 1960s from the anti-authoritarian movements of previous eras. The post-World War II \"baby boom\" generated an unprecedented number of potentially disaffected young people as prospective participants in a rethinking of the direction of American and other democratic societies. Post-war affluence allowed many of the counterculture generation to move beyond a focus on the provision of the material necessities of life that had preoccupied their Depression-era parents. The era was also notable in that a significant portion of the array of behaviors and \"causes\" within the larger movement were quickly assimilated within mainstream society, particularly in the US, even though counterculture participants numbered in the clear minority within their respective national populations.\n\nThe counterculture era essentially commenced in earnest with the assassination of John F. Kennedy in November 1963. It became absorbed into the popular culture with the termination of US combat military involvement in Southeast Asia and the end of the draft in 1973, and ultimately with the resignation of President Richard Nixon in August 1974.\n\nThe Cold War between communist states and capitalist states involved espionage and preparation for war between powerful nations, along with political and military interference by powerful states in the internal affairs of less powerful nations. Poor outcomes from some of these activities set the stage for disillusionment with, and distrust of, post-war governments. Examples included harsh Soviet Union (USSR) responses to popular anti-communist uprisings, such as the 1956 Hungarian Revolution and Czechoslovakia's Prague Spring in 1968, and the botched US Bay of Pigs Invasion of Cuba in 1961. In the US, President Dwight D. Eisenhower's initial deception\nover the nature of the 1960 U-2 incident resulted in the government being caught in a blatant lie at the highest levels, and contributed to a backdrop of growing distrust of authority among many who came of age during the period. The Partial Test Ban Treaty divided the establishment within the US along political and military lines. Internal political disagreements concerning treaty obligations in Southeast Asia (SEATO), especially in Vietnam, and debate as to how other communist insurgencies should be challenged, also created a rift of dissent within the establishment. In the UK, the Profumo Affair also involved establishment leaders being caught in deception, leading to disillusionment and serving as a catalyst for liberal activism. The Cuban Missile Crisis, which brought the world to the brink of nuclear war in October 1962, was largely fomented by duplicitous speech and actions on the part of the Soviet Union. The assassination of US President John F. Kennedy in November 1963, and the attendant theories concerning the event, led to further diminished trust in government, including among younger people.\n\nMany social issues fueled the growth of the larger counterculture movement. One was a nonviolent movement in the United States seeking to resolve constitutional civil rights illegalities, especially regarding general racial segregation, longstanding disfranchisement of blacks in the South by white-dominated state government, and ongoing racial discrimination in jobs, housing, and access to public places in both the North and the South.\nOn college and university campuses, student activists fought for the right to exercise their basic constitutional rights, especially freedom of speech and freedom of assembly.\n\nMany counterculture activists became aware of the plight of the poor, and community organizers fought for the funding of anti-poverty programs, particularly in the South and within inner city areas in the United States.\n\nEnvironmentalism grew from a greater understanding of the ongoing damage caused by industrialization, resultant pollution, and the misguided use of chemicals such as pesticides in well-meaning efforts to improve the quality of life for the rapidly growing population. Authors such as Rachel Carson played key roles in developing a new awareness among the global population of the fragility of our planet, despite resistance from elements of the establishment in many countries.\n\nThe need to address minority rights of women, gay people, the handicapped, and many other neglected constituencies within the larger population came to the forefront as an increasing number of primarily younger people broke free from the constraints of 1950s orthodoxy and struggled to create a more inclusive and tolerant social landscape.\n\nThe availability of new and more effective forms of birth control was a key underpinning of the sexual revolution. The notion of \"recreational sex\" without the threat of unwanted pregnancy radically changed the social dynamic and permitted both women and men much greater freedom in the selection of sexual lifestyles outside the confines of traditional marriage. With this change in attitude, by the 1990s the ratio of children born out of wedlock rose from 5% to 25% for Whites and from 25% to 66% for African-Americans.\n\nFor those born after World War II, the emergence of television as a source of entertainment and information—as well as the associated massive expansion of consumerism afforded by post-war affluence and encouraged by TV advertising—were key components in creating disillusionment for some younger people and in the formulation of new social behaviours, even as ad agencies heavily courted the \"hip\" youth market. In the US, nearly real-time TV news coverage of the civil rights era's Birmingham Campaign, the \"Bloody Sunday\" event of the Selma to Montgomery marches, and graphic news footage from Vietnam brought horrifying, moving images of the bloody reality of armed conflict into living rooms for the first time.\n\nThe breakdown of enforcement of the US Hays Code concerning censorship in motion picture production, the use of new forms of artistic expression in European and Asian cinema, and the advent of modern production values heralded a new era of art-house, pornographic, and mainstream film production, distribution, and exhibition. The end of censorship resulted in a complete reformation of the western film industry. With new-found artistic freedom, a generation of exceptionally talented New Wave film makers working across all genres brought realistic depictions of previously prohibited subject matter to neighborhood theater screens for the first time, even as Hollywood film studios were still considered a part of the establishment by some elements of the counterculture.\n\nBy the later 1960s, previously under-regarded FM radio replaced AM radio as the focal point for the ongoing explosion of rock and roll music, and became the nexus of youth-oriented news and advertising for the counterculture generation.\n\nCommunes, collectives, and intentional communities regained popularity during this era. Early communities, such as the Hog Farm, Quarry Hill, and Drop City\nin the US were established as straightforward agrarian attempts to return to the land and live free of interference from outside influences. As the era progressed, many people established and populated new communities in response to not only disillusionment with standard community forms, but also dissatisfaction with certain elements of the counterculture itself. Some of these self-sustaining communities have been credited with the birth and propagation of the international Green Movement.\n\nThe emergence of an interest in expanded spiritual consciousness, yoga, occult practices and increased human potential helped to shift views on organized religion during the era. In 1957, 69% of US residents polled by Gallup said religion was increasing in influence. By the late 1960s, polls indicated less than 20% still held that belief.\n\nThe \"Generation Gap\", or the inevitable perceived divide in worldview between the old and young, was perhaps never greater than during the counterculture era. A large measure of the generational chasm of the 1960s and early 1970s was born of rapidly evolving fashion and hairstyle trends that were readily adopted by the young, but often misunderstood and ridiculed by the old. These included the wearing of very long hair by men, the wearing of natural or \"Afro\" hairstyles by black people, the donning of revealing clothing by women in public, and the mainstreaming of the psychedelic clothing and regalia of the short-lived hippie culture. Ultimately, practical and comfortable casual apparel, namely updated forms of T-shirts (often tie-dyed, or emblazoned with political or advertising statements), and Levi Strauss-branded blue denim jeans became the enduring uniform of the generation. The fashion dominance of the counterculture effectively ended with the rise of the Disco and Punk Rock eras in the later 1970s, even as the global popularity of T-shirts, denim jeans, and casual clothing in general have continued to grow.\n\nIn the western world, the ongoing criminal legal status of the recreational drug industry was instrumental in the formation of an anti-establishment social dynamic by some of those coming of age during the counterculture era. The explosion of marijuana use during the era, in large part by students on fast-expanding college campuses, created an attendant need for increasing numbers of people to conduct their personal affairs in secret in the procurement and use of banned substances. The classification of marijuana as a narcotic, and the attachment of severe criminal penalties for its use, drove the act of smoking marijuana, and experimentation with substances in general, deep underground. Many began to live largely clandestine lives because of their choice to use such drugs and substances, fearing retribution from their governments.\n\nThe confrontations between college students (and other activists) and law enforcement officials became one of the hallmarks of the era. Many younger people began to show deep distrust of police, and terms such as \"fuzz\" and \"pig\" as derogatory epithets for police reappeared, and became key words within the counterculture lexicon. The distrust of police was based not only on fear of police brutality during political protests, but also on generalized police corruption - especially police manufacture of false evidence, and outright entrapment, in drug cases. In the US, the social tension between elements of the counterculture and law enforcement reached the breaking point in many notable cases, including: the Columbia University protests of 1968 in New York City, the 1968 Democratic National Convention protests in Chicago, the arrest and imprisonment of John Sinclair in Ann Arbor, Michigan, and the Kent State shootings at Kent State University in Kent, Ohio, where National Guardsman acted as surrogates for police. Police malfeasance was also an ongoing issue in the UK during the era.\n\nThe Vietnam War, and the protracted national divide between supporters and opponents of the war, were arguably the most important factors contributing to the rise of the larger counterculture movement.\n\nThe widely accepted assertion that anti-war opinion was held only among the young is a myth, but enormous war protests consisting of thousands of mostly younger people in every major US city, and elsewhere across the Western world, effectively united millions against the war, and against the war policy that prevailed under five US congresses and during two presidential administrations.\n\nThe counterculture movement took hold in Western Europe, with London, Amsterdam, Paris, Rome, Copenhagen and West Berlin rivaling San Francisco and New York as counterculture centers.\n\nThe UK Underground was a movement linked to the growing subculture in the US and associated with the hippie phenomenon, generating its own magazines and newspapers, fashion, music groups, and clubs. Underground figure Barry Miles said, \"The underground was a catch-all sobriquet for a community of like-minded anti-establishment, anti-war, pro-rock'n'roll individuals, most of whom had a common interest in recreational drugs. They saw peace, exploring a widened area of consciousness, love and sexual experimentation as more worthy of their attention than entering the rat race. The straight, consumerist lifestyle was not to their liking, but they did not object to others living it. But at that time the middle classes still felt they had the right to impose their values on everyone else, which resulted in conflict.\"\n\nIn the Netherlands, Provo was a counterculture movement that focused on \"provoking violent responses from authorities using non-violent bait.\"\n\nIn France, the General Strike centered in Paris in May 1968 united French students, and nearly toppled the government.\n\nKommune 1 or K1 was a commune in West Germany, and was known for its bizarre staged events that fluctuated between satire and provocation. These events served as inspiration for the \"Sponti\" movement and other leftist groups. In the late summer of 1968, the commune moved into a deserted factory on Stephanstraße in order to reorient. This second phase of Kommune 1 was characterized by sex, music and drugs. Soon, the commune was receiving visitors from all over the world, including Jimi Hendrix.\n\n\"Mánička\" is a Czech term used for young people with long hair, usually males, in Czechoslovakia through the 1960s and 1970s. Long hair for males during this time was considered an expression of political and social attitudes in communist Czechoslovakia. From the mid-1960s, the long-haired and \"untidy\" persons (so called \"máničky\" or \"vlasatci\" (in English: Mops) were banned from entering pubs, cinema halls, theatres and using public transportation in several Czech cities and towns. In 1964, the public transportation regulations in Most and Litvínov excluded long-haired \"máničky\" as displeasure-evoking persons. Two years later, the municipal council in Poděbrady banned \"máničky\" from entering cultural institutions in the town. In August 1966, \"Rudé právo\" informed that \"máničky\" in Prague were banned from visiting restaurants of the I. and II. price category.\n\nIn 1966, during a big campaign coordinated by the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia, around 4,000 young males were forced to cut their hair, often in the cells with the assistance of the state police. On 19 August 1966, during a \"safety intervention\" organized by the state police, 140 long-haired people were arrested. As a response, the \"community of long-haired\" organized a protest in Prague. More than 100 people cheered slogans such as \"Give us back our hair!\" or \"Away with hairdressers!\". The state police arrested the organizers and several participants of the meeting. Some of them were given prison sentences. According to the newspaper \"Mladá fronta Dnes\", the Czechoslovak Ministry of Interior in 1966 even compiled a detailed map of the frequency of occurrence of long-haired males in Czechoslovakia. In August 1969, during the first anniversary of the Soviet occupation of Czechoslovakia, the long-haired youth were one of the most active voices in the state protesting against the occupation. Youth protesters have been labeled as \"vagabonds\" and \"slackers\" by the official normalized press.\n\n\"Oz\" magazine was first published as a satirical humour magazine between 1963 and 1969 in Sydney, Australia, and, in its second and better known incarnation, became a \"psychedelic hippy\" magazine from 1967 to 1973 in London. Strongly identified as part of the underground press, it was the subject of two celebrated obscenity trials, one in Australia in 1964 and the other in the United Kingdom in 1971.\n\nIn Mexico, rock music was tied into the youth revolt of the 1960s. Mexico City, as well as northern cities such as Monterrey, Nuevo Laredo, Ciudad Juárez, and Tijuana, were exposed to US music. Many Mexican rock stars became involved in the counterculture. The three-day Festival Rock y Ruedas de Avándaro, held in 1971, was organized in the valley of Avándaro near the city of Toluca, a town neighboring Mexico City, and became known as \"The Mexican Woodstock\". Nudity, drug use, and the presence of the US flag scandalized conservative Mexican society to such an extent that the government clamped down on rock and roll performances for the rest of the decade. The festival, marketed as proof of Mexico's modernization, was never expected to attract the masses it did, and the government had to evacuate stranded attendees en masse at the end. This occurred during the era of President Luis Echeverría, an extremely repressive era in Mexican history. Anything that could be connected to the counterculture or student protests was prohibited from being broadcast on public airwaves, with the government fearing a repeat of the student protests of 1968. Few bands survived the prohibition; though the ones that did, like Three Souls in My Mind (now El Tri), remained popular due in part to their adoption of Spanish for their lyrics, but mostly as a result of a dedicated underground following. While Mexican rock groups were eventually able to perform publicly by the mid-1980s, the ban prohibiting tours of Mexico by foreign acts lasted until 1989.\n\nThe Cordobazo was a civil uprising in the city of Córdoba, Argentina, in the end of May 1969, during the military dictatorship of General Juan Carlos Onganía, which occurred a few days after the \"Rosariazo\", and a year after the French May '68. Contrary to previous protests, the Cordobazo did not correspond to previous struggles, headed by Marxist workers' leaders, but associated students and workers in the same struggle against the military government.\n\nThe Civil Rights Movement, a key element of the larger counterculture movement, involved the use of applied nonviolence to assure that equal rights guaranteed under the US Constitution would apply to all citizens. Many states illegally denied many of these rights to African-Americans, and this was successfully addressed in the early and mid-1960s in several major nonviolent movements.\n\nMuch of the 1960s counterculture originated on college campuses. The 1964 Free Speech Movement at the University of California, Berkeley, which had its roots in the Civil Rights Movement of the southern United States, was one early example. At Berkeley a group of students began to identify themselves as having interests as a class that were at odds with the interests and practices of the University and its corporate sponsors. Other rebellious young people, who were not students, also contributed to the Free Speech Movement.\n\nThe \"New Left\" is a term used in different countries to describe left-wing movements that occurred in the 1960s and 1970s in the Western world. They differed from earlier leftist movements that had been more oriented towards labour activism, and instead adopted social activism. The US \"New Left\" is associated with college campus mass protests and radical leftist movements. The British \"New Left\" was an intellectually driven movement which attempted to correct the perceived errors of \"Old Left\" parties in the post-World War II period. The movements began to wind down in the 1970s, when activists either committed themselves to party projects, developed social justice organizations, moved into identity politics or alternative lifestyles, or became politically inactive.\n\nThe emergence of the New Left in the 1950s and 1960s led to a revival of interest in libertarian socialism. The New Left's critique of the Old Left's authoritarianism was associated with a strong interest in personal liberty, autonomy (see the thinking of Cornelius Castoriadis) and led to a rediscovery of older socialist traditions, such as left communism, council communism, and the Industrial Workers of the World. The New Left also led to a revival of anarchism. Journals like \"Radical America\" and \"Black Mask\" in America, \"Solidarity\", \"Big Flame\" and \"Democracy & Nature\", succeeded by \"The International Journal of Inclusive Democracy\", in the UK, introduced a range of left libertarian ideas to a new generation. Social ecology, autonomism and, more recently, participatory economics (parecon), and Inclusive Democracy emerged from this.\n\nA surge of popular interest in anarchism occurred in western nations during the 1960s and 1970s. Anarchism was influential in the counterculture of the 1960s and anarchists actively participated in the late 60s students and workers revolts. During the IX Congress of the Italian Anarchist Federation in Carrara in 1965, a group decided to split off from this organization and created the \"Gruppi di Iniziativa Anarchica\". In the 70s, it was mostly composed of \"veteran individualist anarchists with a pacifism orientation, naturism, etc,  ...\". In 1968, in Carrara, Italy the International of Anarchist Federations was founded during an international anarchist conference held there in 1968 by the three existing European federations of France, the Italian and the Iberian Anarchist Federation as well as the Bulgarian federation in French exile. During the events of May 68 the anarchist groups active in France were Fédération anarchiste, Mouvement communiste libertaire, Union fédérale des anarchistes, Alliance ouvrière anarchiste, Union des groupes anarchistes communistes, Noir et Rouge, Confédération nationale du travail, Union anarcho-syndicaliste, Organisation révolutionnaire anarchiste, \"Cahiers socialistes libertaires\", \"À contre-courant\", \"La Révolution prolétarienne\", and the publications close to Émile Armand.\n\nThe New Left in the United States also included anarchist, countercultural and hippie-related radical groups such as the Yippies who were led by Abbie Hoffman, The Diggers and Up Against the Wall Motherfuckers. By late 1966, the Diggers opened free stores which simply gave away their stock, provided free food, distributed free drugs, gave away money, organized free music concerts, and performed works of political art. The Diggers took their name from the original English Diggers led by Gerrard Winstanley and sought to create a mini-society free of money and capitalism. On the other hand, the Yippies employed theatrical gestures, such as advancing a pig (\"Pigasus the Immortal\") as a candidate for President in 1968, to mock the social status quo. They have been described as a highly theatrical, anti-authoritarian and anarchist youth movement of \"symbolic politics\". Since they were well known for street theater and politically themed pranks, many of the \"old school\" political left either ignored or denounced them. According to ABC News, \"The group was known for street theater pranks and was once referred to as the 'Groucho Marxists'.\"\n\nIn Trafalgar Square, London in 1958, in an act of civil disobedience, 60,000-100,000 protesters made up of students and pacifists converged in what was to become the \"ban the Bomb\" demonstrations.\n\nOpposition to the Vietnam War began in 1964 on United States college campuses. Student activism became a dominant theme among the baby boomers, growing to include many other demographic groups. Exemptions and deferments for the middle and upper classes resulted in the induction of a disproportionate number of poor, working-class, and minority registrants. Countercultural books such as MacBird by Barbara Garson and much of the counterculture music encouraged a spirit of non-conformism and anti-establishmentarianism. By 1968, the year after a large march to the United Nations in New York City and a large protest at the Pentagon were undertaken, a majority of people in the country opposed the war.\n\nThe application of nuclear technology, both as a source of energy and as an instrument of war, has been controversial.\n\nScientists and diplomats have debated the nuclear weapons policy since before the atomic bombing of Hiroshima in 1945. The public became concerned about nuclear weapons testing from about 1954, following extensive nuclear testing in the Pacific. In 1961, at the height of the Cold War, about 50,000 women brought together by Women Strike for Peace marched in 60 cities in the United States to demonstrate against nuclear weapons. In 1963, many countries ratified the Partial Test Ban Treaty which prohibited atmospheric nuclear testing.\n\nSome local opposition to nuclear power emerged in the early 1960s, and in the late 1960s some members of the scientific community began to express their concerns. In the early 1970s, there were large protests about a proposed nuclear power plant in Wyhl, Germany. The project was cancelled in 1975 and anti-nuclear success at Wyhl inspired opposition to nuclear power in other parts of Europe and North America. Nuclear power became an issue of major public protest in the 1970s.\n\nThe role of women as full-time homemakers in industrial society was challenged in 1963, when US feminist Betty Friedan published \"The Feminine Mystique\", giving momentum to the women's movement and influencing what many called Second-wave feminism. Other activists, such as Gloria Steinem and Angela Davis, either organized, influenced, or educated many of a younger generation of women to endorse and expand feminist thought. Feminism gained further currency within the protest movements of the late 1960s, as women in movements such as Students for a Democratic Society rebelled against the \"support\" role they had been consigned to within the male-dominated New Left, as well as against manifestations and statements of sexism within some radical groups. The 1970 pamphlet \"Women and Their Bodies\", soon expanded into the 1971 book \"Our Bodies, Ourselves\", was particularly influential in bringing about the new feminist consciousness.\n\nThe 1960s counterculture embraced a back-to-the-land ethic, and communes of the era often relocated to the country from cities. Influential books of the 1960s included Rachel Carson's \"Silent Spring\" and Paul Ehrlich's \"The Population Bomb\". Counterculture environmentalists were quick to grasp the implications of Ehrlich's writings on overpopulation, the Hubbert \"peak oil\" prediction, and more general concerns over pollution, litter, the environmental effects of the Vietnam War, automobile-dependent lifestyles, and nuclear energy. More broadly they saw that the dilemmas of energy and resource allocation would have implications for geo-politics, lifestyle, environment, and other dimensions of modern life. The \"back to nature\" theme was already prevalent in the counterculture by the time of the 1969 Woodstock festival, while the first Earth Day in 1970 was significant in bringing environmental concerns to the forefront of youth culture. At the start of the 1970s, counterculture-oriented publications like the \"Whole Earth Catalog\" and \"The Mother Earth News\" were popular, out of which emerged a back to the land movement. The 1960s and early 1970s counterculture were early adopters of practices such as recycling and organic farming long before they became mainstream. The counterculture interest in ecology progressed well into the 1970s: particularly influential were New Left eco-anarchist Murray Bookchin, Jerry Mander's criticism of the effects of television on society, Ernest Callenbach's novel \"Ecotopia\", Edward Abbey's fiction and non-fiction writings, and E.F. Schumacher's economics book \"Small is Beautiful\".\n\nThe Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28, 1969, at the Stonewall Inn, a gay bar in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New York City. This is frequently cited as the first instance in US history when people in the gay community fought back against a government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and became the defining event that marked the start of the Gay rights movement in the United States and around the world.\n\nAfter the January 14, 1967 Human Be-In in San Francisco organized by artist Michael Bowen, the media's attention on culture was fully activated. In 1967, Scott McKenzie's rendition of the song \"San Francisco (Be Sure to Wear Flowers in Your Hair)\" brought as many as 100,000 young people from all over the world to celebrate San Francisco's \"Summer of Love.\" While the song had originally been written by John Phillips of The Mamas & the Papas to promote the June 1967 Monterey Pop Festival, it became an instant hit worldwide (#4 in the United States, #1 in Europe) and quickly transcended its original purpose.\n\nSan Francisco's flower children, also called \"hippies\" by local newspaper columnist Herb Caen, adopted new styles of dress, experimented with psychedelic drugs, lived communally and developed a vibrant music scene. When people returned home from \"The Summer of Love\" these styles and behaviors spread quickly from San Francisco and Berkeley to many US and Canadian cities and European capitals. Some hippies formed communes to live as far outside of the established system as possible. This aspect of the counterculture rejected active political engagement with the mainstream and, following the dictate of Timothy Leary to \"Turn on, tune in, drop out\", hoped to change society by dropping out of it. Looking back on his own life (as a Harvard professor) prior to 1960, Leary interpreted it to have been that of \"an anonymous institutional employee who drove to work each morning in a long line of commuter cars and drove home each night and drank martinis  ... like several million middle-class, liberal, intellectual robots.\"\n\nAs members of the hippie movement grew older and moderated their lives and their views, and especially after US involvement in the Vietnam War ended in the mid-1970s, the counterculture was largely absorbed by the mainstream, leaving a lasting impact on philosophy, morality, music, art, alternative health and diet, lifestyle and fashion.\n\nIn addition to a new style of clothing, philosophy, art, music and various views on anti-war, and anti-establishment, some hippies decided to turn away from modern society and re-settle on ranches, or communes. The very first of communes in the United States was a seven-acre land in Southern Colorado, named Drop City. According to Timothy Miller, \n\nDrop City brought together most of the themes that had been developing in other recent communities-anarchy, pacifism, sexual freedom, rural isolation, interest in drugs, art-and wrapped them flamboyantly into a commune not quite like any that had gone before\n\nMany of the inhabitants practiced acts like reusing trash and recycled materials to build Geodesic domes for shelter and other various purposes; using various drugs like marijuana and LSD, and creating various pieces of Drop Art. After the initial success of Drop City, visitors would take the idea of communes and spread them. Another commune called \"The Ranch\" was very similar to the culture of Drop City, as well as new concepts like giving children of the commune extensive freedoms known as \"children's rights\".\n\nDuring the 1960s, this second group of casual lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) users evolved and expanded into a subculture that extolled the mystical and religious symbolism often engendered by the drug's powerful effects, and advocated its use as a method of raising consciousness. The personalities associated with the subculture, gurus such as Timothy Leary and psychedelic rock musicians such as the Grateful Dead, Pink Floyd, Jimi Hendrix, The Byrds, The 13th Floor Elevators, Ultimate Spinach, Janis Joplin, Crosby, Stills & Nash, The Doors, Blue Cheer, The Chambers Brothers, Country Joe and the Fish, Big Brother and the Holding Company, Jefferson Airplane and the Beatles, soon attracted a great deal of publicity, generating further interest in LSD.\n\nThe popularization of LSD outside of the medical world was hastened when individuals such as Ken Kesey participated in drug trials and liked what they saw. Tom Wolfe wrote a widely read account of these early days of LSD's entrance into the non-academic world in his book \"The Electric Kool Aid Acid Test\", which documented the cross-country, acid-fueled voyage of Ken Kesey and the Merry Pranksters on the psychedelic bus \"Furthur\" and the Pranksters' later \"Acid Test\" LSD parties. In 1965, Sandoz laboratories stopped its still legal shipments of LSD to the United States for research and psychiatric use, after a request from the US government concerned about its use. By April 1966, LSD use had become so widespread that \"Time Magazine\" warned about its dangers. In December 1966, the exploitation film \"Hallucination Generation\" was released. This was followed by \"The Trip\" in 1967 and \"Psych-Out\" in 1968.\n\nAs most research on psychedelics began in the 1940s and 50s, heavy experimentation made its effect in the 1960s during this era of change and movement. Researchers were gaining acknowledgment and popularity with their promotion of psychedelia. This really anchored the change that counterculture instigators and followers began. Most research was conducted at top collegiate institutes, such as Harvard University.\n\nTimothy Leary and his Harvard research team had hopes for potential changes in society. Their research began with psilocybin mushrooms and was called the Harvard Psilocybin Project. In one study known as the Concord Prison Experiment, Leary investigated the potential for psilocybin to reduce recidivism in criminals being released from prison. After the research sessions, Leary did a follow-up. He found that \"75% of the turned on prisoners who were released had stayed out of jail.\" He believed he had solved the nation's crime problem. But with many officials skeptical, this breakthrough was not promoted.\n\nBecause of the personal experiences with these drugs Leary and his many outstanding colleagues, Aldous Huxley (\"The Doors of Perception\") and Alan Watts (\"The Joyous Cosmology\") believed that these were the mechanisms that could bring peace to not only the nation but the world. As their research continued the media followed them and published their work and documented their behavior, the trend of this counterculture drug experimentation began.\n\nLeary made attempts to bring more organized awareness to people interested in the study of psychedelics. He confronted the Senate committee in Washington and recommended for colleges to authorize the conduction of laboratory courses in psychedelics. He noted that these courses would \"end the indiscriminate use of LSD and would be the most popular and productive courses ever offered\". Although these men were seeking an ultimate enlightenment, reality eventually proved that the potential they thought was there could not be reached, at least in this time. The change they sought for the world had not been permitted by the political systems of all the nations these men pursued their research in. Ram Dass states, \"Tim and I actually had a chart on the wall about how soon everyone would be enlightened ... We found out that real change is harder. We downplayed the fact that the psychedelic experience isn't for everyone.\"\n\nLeary and his team's research got shut down at Harvard and everywhere they relocated around the globe. Their outlawish behavior and aggressive approach with these drugs did not settle well with the law. Officials did not agree with this chaotic promotion of peace.\n\nResearch with psychedelic drugs and those who conducted it was a radical understanding for the vast majority of the world. However, it did create a change. A ripple of curiosity was created as a result and the wave is continuing to swell.\n\nKen Kesey and his Merry Pranksters helped shape the developing character of the 1960s counterculture when they embarked on a cross-country voyage during the summer of 1964 in a psychedelic school bus named \"Furthur\". Beginning in 1959, Kesey had volunteered as a research subject for medical trials financed by the CIA's \"MK ULTRA\" project. These trials tested the effects of LSD, psilocybin, mescaline, and other psychedelic drugs. After the medical trials, Kesey continued experimenting on his own, and involved many close friends; collectively they became known as \"The Merry Pranksters\". The Pranksters visited Harvard LSD proponent Timothy Leary at his Millbrook, New York retreat, and experimentation with LSD and other psychedelic drugs, primarily as a means for internal reflection and personal growth, became a constant during the Prankster trip.\n\nThe Pranksters created a direct link between the 1950s Beat Generation and the 1960s psychedelic scene; the bus was driven by Beat icon Neal Cassady, Beat poet Allen Ginsberg was on board for a time, and they dropped in on Cassady's friend, Beat author Jack Kerouac - though Kerouac declined to participate in the Prankster scene. After the Pranksters returned to California, they popularized the use of LSD at so-called \"Acid Tests\", which initially were held at Kesey's home in La Honda, California, and then at many other West Coast venues. The cross country trip and Prankster experiments were documented in Tom Wolfe's \"The Electric Kool Aid Acid Test\", a masterpiece of New Journalism.\n\nExperimentation with LSD, peyote, psilocybin mushrooms, MDA, marijuana, and other psychedelic drugs became a major component of 1960s counterculture, influencing philosophy, art, music and styles of dress. Jim DeRogatis wrote that peyote, a small cactus containing the psychedelic alkaloid mescaline, was widely available in Austin, Texas, a countercultural hub in the early 1960s.\n\nThe sexual revolution (also known as a time of \"sexual liberation\") was a social movement that challenged traditional codes of behavior related to sexuality and interpersonal relationships throughout the Western world from the 1960s to the 1980s. Sexual liberation included increased acceptance of sex outside of traditional heterosexual, monogamous relationships (primarily marriage). Contraception and the pill, public nudity, the normalization of premarital sex, homosexuality and alternative forms of sexuality, and the legalization of abortion all followed.\n\nUnderground newspapers sprang up in most cities and college towns, serving to define and communicate the range of phenomena that defined the counterculture: radical political opposition to \"The Establishment\", colorful experimental (and often explicitly drug-influenced) approaches to art, music and cinema, and uninhibited indulgence in sex and drugs as a symbol of freedom. The papers also often included comic strips, from which the underground comix were an outgrowth.\n\nAs numbers of young people became alienated from social norms, they resisted and looked for alternatives. The forms of escape and resistance manifest in many ways including social activism, alternative lifestyles, dress, music and alternative recreational activities, including that of throwing a Frisbee. From hippies tossing the Frisbee at festivals and concerts came today's popular disc sports. Disc sports such as disc freestyle, double disc court, disc guts, Ultimate and disc golf became this sport's first events.\n\nThe Situationist International was a restricted group of international revolutionaries founded in 1957, and which had its peak in its influence on the unprecedented general wildcat strikes of May 1968 in France. With their ideas rooted in Marxism and the 20th-century European artistic avant-gardes, they advocated experiences of life being alternative to those admitted by the capitalist order, for the fulfillment of human primitive desires and the pursuing of a superior passional quality. For this purpose they suggested and experimented with the \"construction of situations\", namely the setting up of environments favorable for the fulfillment of such desires. Using methods drawn from the arts, they developed a series of experimental fields of study for the construction of such situations, like unitary urbanism and psychogeography. They fought against the main obstacle on the fulfillment of such superior passional living, identified by them in advanced capitalism. Their theoretical work peaked on the highly influential book \"The Society of the Spectacle\" by Guy Debord. Debord argued in 1967 that spectacular features like mass media and advertising have a central role in an advanced capitalist society, which is to show a fake reality in order to mask the real capitalist degradation of human life. Raoul Vaneigem wrote \"The Revolution of Everyday Life\" which takes the field of \"everyday life\" as the ground upon which communication and participation can occur, or, as is more commonly the case, be perverted and abstracted into pseudo-forms.\n\nFluxus (a name taken from a Latin word meaning \"to flow\") is an international network of artists, composers and designers noted for blending different artistic media and disciplines in the 1960s. They have been active in Neo-Dada noise music, visual art, literature, urban planning, architecture, and design. Fluxus is often described as intermedia, a term coined by Fluxus artist Dick Higgins in a famous 1966 essay. Fluxus encouraged a \"do-it-yourself\" aesthetic, and valued simplicity over complexity. Like Dada before it, Fluxus included a strong current of anti-commercialism and an anti-art sensibility, disparaging the conventional market-driven art world in favor of an artist-centered creative practice. As Fluxus artist Robert Filliou wrote, however, Fluxus differed from Dada in its richer set of aspirations, and the positive social and communitarian aspirations of Fluxus far outweighed the anti-art tendency that also marked the group.\n\nIn the 1960s, the Dada-influenced art group Black Mask declared that revolutionary art should be \"an integral part of life, as in primitive society, and not an appendage to wealth.\" Black Mask disrupted cultural events in New York by giving made up flyers of art events to the homeless with the lure of free drinks. After, the Motherfuckers grew out of a combination of Black Mask and another group called Angry Arts. Up Against the Wall Motherfuckers (often referred to as simply \"the Motherfuckers\", or UAW/MF) was an anarchist affinity group based in New York City.\n\nDuring the early 1960s, Britain's new wave of musicians gained popularity and fame in the United States. Artists such as the Beatles paved the way for their compatriots to enter the US market. The Beatles themselves were influenced by many artists, among them American singer-songwriter Bob Dylan, who was a lyrical inspiration as well as their introduction to marijuana. Dylan's early career as a protest singer had been inspired by artists like Pete Seeger and his hero Woody Guthrie. Other folksingers, like Joan Baez and Peter, Paul and Mary, took the songs of the era to new audiences and public recognition.\n\nThe music of the 1960s moved towards an electric, psychedelic version of rock, thanks largely to Bob Dylan's decision to play an electric guitar at the 1965 Newport Folk Festival. The newly popularized electric sound of rock was then built upon and molded into psychedelic rock by artists like The 13th Floor Elevators and British bands Pink Floyd and the Beatles. The Beach Boys' 1966 album \"Pet Sounds\" also paved the way for later hippie acts, with Brian Wilson's writing interpreted as a \"plea for love and understanding.\" \"Pet Sounds\" served as a major source of inspiration for other contemporary acts, most notably directly inspiring the Beatles' \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\". The single \"Good Vibrations\" soared to number one globally, completely changing the perception of what a record could be. It was during this period that the highly anticipated album \"Smile\" was to be released. However, the project collapsed and The Beach Boys released a downgraded version called \"Smiley Smile\", which failed to make a big commercial impact but was also highly influential, most notably on The Who's Pete Townshend.\n\nThe Beatles went on to become the most prominent commercial exponents of the \"psychedelic revolution\" (e.g., \"Revolver\", \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\" and \"Magical Mystery Tour\") in the late 1960s. In the United States, bands that exemplified the counterculture were becoming huge commercial and mainstream successes. These included The Mamas & the Papas (\"If You Can Believe Your Eyes and Ears\"), Big Brother and the Holding Company (\"Cheap Thrills\"), Jimi Hendrix (\"Are You Experienced\"), Jefferson Airplane (\"Surrealistic Pillow\"), The Doors (\"The Doors\") and Sly and the Family Stone (\"Stand!\"). Bands and other musicians, such as the Grateful Dead, Neil Young (Canada), David Peel, Phil Ochs, The Fugs, Quicksilver Messenger Service, John Sebastian, Melanie, The Velvet Underground, Frank Zappa, Captain Beefheart, Santana, CSNY, Shocking Blue, Country Joe and the Fish, and The Holy Modal Rounders were considered key to the counterculture movement.\n\nWhile the hippie scene was born in California, an edgier scene emerged in New York City that put more emphasis on avant-garde and art music. Bands such as The Velvet Underground came out of this underground music scene, which was predominantly centered at Andy Warhol's legendary Factory. The Velvet Underground supplied the music for the Exploding Plastic Inevitable, a series of multimedia events staged by Warhol and his collaborators in 1966 and 1967. The Velvet Underground's lyrics were considered risqué for the era, since they discussed sexual fetishism, transgender identities, and the use of hard drugs associated with Warhol's Factory and its superstars.\nDetroit's MC5 also came out of the underground rock music scene of the late 1960s. They introduced a more aggressive evolution of garage rock which was often fused with sociopolitical and countercultural lyrics of the era, such as in the song \"Motor City Is Burning\" (a John Lee Hooker cover adapting the story of the Detroit Race Riot of 1943 to the Detroit riot of 1967). MC5 had ties to radical leftist organizations such as \"Up Against the Wall Motherfuckers\" and John Sinclair's White Panther Party, and MC5 performed a lengthy set before the 1968 Democratic National Convention in Chicago, where an infamous riot subsequently broke out between police and students protesting the Vietnam War and the recent assassinations of Martin Luther King, Jr. and Robert Kennedy. MC5, The Stooges and the aforementioned Velvet Underground, are now seen as an influence on the protopunk sound that would lead to punk rock and heavy metal music in the late 1970s.\n\nAnother hotbed of the 1960s counterculture was Austin, Texas, with two of the era's legendary music venues-the Vulcan Gas Company and the Armadillo World Headquarters-and musical talent like Janis Joplin, the 13th Floor Elevators, Shiva's Headband, the Conqueroo, and, later, Stevie Ray Vaughan. Austin was also home to a large New Left activist movement, one of the earliest underground papers, The Rag, and cutting edge graphic artists like Fabulous Furry Freak Brothers creator Gilbert Shelton, underground comix pioneer Jack Jackson (Jaxon), and surrealist armadillo artist Jim Franklin.\n\nThe 1960s was also an era of rock festivals, which played an important role in spreading the counterculture across the US. The Monterey Pop Festival, which launched Hendrix's career in the US, was one of the first of these festivals. Britain's 1968–1970 Isle of Wight Festivals drew big names such as The Who, The Doors, Joni Mitchell, Hendrix, Dylan, and others. The 1969 Woodstock Festival in New York state became a symbol of the movement, although the 1970 Isle of Wight Festival drew a larger crowd. Some believe the era came to an abrupt end with the infamous Altamont Free Concert held by The Rolling Stones, in which heavy-handed security from the Hells Angels resulted in the stabbing of an audience member, apparently in self-defense, as the show descended into chaos.\nAs the psychedelic revolution progressed, lyrics grew more complex, (such as Jefferson Airplane's \"White Rabbit\"). Long-playing albums enabled artists to make more in-depth statements than could be made in just a single song (such as the Mothers of Invention's satirical \"Freak Out!\"). Even the rules governing single songs were stretched, and singles lasting longer than three minutes emerged, such as Dylan's \"Like a Rolling Stone\", Arlo Guthrie's \"Alice's Restaurant\", and Iron Butterfly's 17-minute-long \"In-A-Gadda-Da-Vida.\".\n\nThe 1960s saw the protest song gain a sense of political self-importance, with Phil Ochs's \"I Ain't Marching Anymore\" and Country Joe and the Fish's \"I-Feel-Like-I'm-Fixin'-to-Die-Rag\" among the many anti-war anthems that were important to the era.\n\nFree jazz is an approach to jazz music that was first developed in the 1950s and 1960s. Although the music produced by free jazz composers varied widely, the common feature was a dissatisfaction with the limitations of bebop, hard bop, and modal jazz, which had developed in the 1940s and 1950s. Each in their own way, free jazz musicians attempted to alter, extend, or break down the conventions of jazz, often by discarding hitherto invariable features of jazz, such as fixed chord changes or tempos. While usually considered experimental and avant-garde, free jazz has also oppositely been conceived as an attempt to return jazz to its \"primitive\", often religious roots, and emphasis on collective improvisation. Free jazz is strongly associated with the 1950s innovations of Ornette Coleman and Cecil Taylor and the later works of saxophonist John Coltrane. Other important pioneers included Charles Mingus, Eric Dolphy, Albert Ayler, Archie Shepp, Joe Maneri and Sun Ra. Although today \"free jazz\" is the generally used term, many other terms were used to describe the loosely defined movement, including \"avant-garde\", \"energy music\" and \"The New Thing\". During its early and mid-60s heyday, much free jazz was released by established labels such as Prestige, Blue Note and Impulse, as well as independents such as ESP Disk and BYG Actuel. Free improvisation or \"free music\" is improvised music without any rules beyond the logic or inclination of the musician(s) involved. The term can refer to both a technique (employed by any musician in any genre) and as a recognizable genre in its own right. Free improvisation, as a genre of music, developed in the U.S. and Europe in the mid to late 1960s, largely as an outgrowth of free jazz and modern classical musics. None of its primary exponents can be said to be famous within mainstream; however, in experimental circles, a number of free musicians are well known, including saxophonists Evan Parker, Anthony Braxton, Peter Brötzmann and John Zorn, drummer Christian Lillinger, trombonist George Lewis, guitarists Derek Bailey, Henry Kaiser and Fred Frith and the improvising groups The Art Ensemble of Chicago and AMM.\n\nAllmusic Guide states that \"until around 1967, the worlds of jazz and rock were nearly completely separate\". The term, \"jazz-rock\" (or \"jazz/rock\") is often used as a synonym for the term \"jazz fusion\". However, some make a distinction between the two terms. The Free Spirits have sometimes been cited as the earliest jazz-rock band. During the late 1960s, at the same time that jazz musicians were experimenting with rock rhythms and electric instruments, rock groups such as Cream and the Grateful Dead were \"beginning to incorporate elements of jazz into their music\" by \"experimenting with extended free-form improvisation\". Other \"groups such as Blood, Sweat & Tears directly borrowed harmonic, melodic, rhythmic and instrumentational elements from the jazz tradition\". The rock groups that drew on jazz ideas (like Soft Machine, Colosseum, Caravan, Nucleus, Chicago, Spirit and Frank Zappa) turned the blend of the two styles with electric instruments. Since rock often emphasized directness and simplicity over virtuosity, jazz-rock generally grew out of the most artistically ambitious rock subgenres of the late 1960s and early 70s: psychedelia, progressive rock, and the singer-songwriter movement.\" Miles Davis' \"Bitches Brew\" sessions, recorded in August 1969 and released the following year, mostly abandoned jazz's usual swing beat in favor of a rock-style backbeat anchored by electric bass grooves. The recording \"... mixed free jazz blowing by a large ensemble with electronic keyboards and guitar, plus a dense mix of percussion.\" Davis also drew on the rock influence by playing his trumpet through electronic effects and pedals. While the album gave Davis a gold record, the use of electric instruments and rock beats created a great deal of consternation amongst some more conservative jazz critics.\n\nThe counterculture was not only affected by cinema, but was also instrumental in the provision of era-relevant content and talent for the film industry. \"Bonnie and Clyde\" struck a chord with the youth as \"the alienation of the young in the 1960s was comparable to the director's image of the 1930s.\" Films of this time also focused on the changes happening in the world. A sign of this was the visibility that the hippie subculture gained in various mainstream and underground media. Hippie exploitation films are 1960s exploitation films about the hippie counterculture with stereotypical situations associated with the movement such as marijuana and LSD use, sex and wild psychedelic parties. Examples include \"The Love-ins\", \"Psych-Out\", \"The Trip\", and \"Wild in the Streets\". The musical play \"Hair\" shocked stage audiences with full-frontal nudity. Dennis Hopper's \"Road Trip\" adventure \"Easy Rider\" (1969) became accepted as one of the landmark films of the era. \"Medium Cool\" portrayed the 1968 Democratic Convention alongside the 1968 Chicago police riots which has led to it being labeled as \"a fusion of cinema-vérité and political radicalism\". One film-studio attempt to cash in on the hippie trend was 1968's \"Psych-Out\", which is in contrast to the film version of Arlo Guthrie's \"Alice's Restaurant\", which some say portrayed the generation as \"doomed\". The music of the era was represented by films such as 1970s \"Woodstock\", a documentary of the music festival. \"(See also: List of films related to the hippie subculture)\" Inaugurated by the 1969 release of Andy Warhol \"Blue Movie\", the phenomenon of adult erotic films being publicly discussed by celebrities (like Johnny Carson and Bob Hope), and taken seriously by critics (like Roger Ebert), a development referred to, by Ralph Blumenthal of \"The New York Times\", as \"porno chic\", and later known as the Golden Age of Porn, began, for the first time, in modern American culture. According to award-winning author Toni Bentley, Radley Metzger 1976 film \"The Opening of Misty Beethoven\", based on the play \"Pygmalion\" by George Bernard Shaw (and its derivative, \"My Fair Lady\"), and due to attaining a mainstream level in storyline and sets, is considered the \"crown jewel\" of this 'Golden Age'.\n\nIn France the New Wave was a blanket term coined by critics for a group of French filmmakers of the late 1950s and 1960s, influenced by Italian Neorealism and classical Hollywood cinema. Although never a formally organized movement, the New Wave filmmakers were linked by their self-conscious rejection of classical cinematic form and their spirit of youthful iconoclasm and is an example of European art cinema. Many also engaged in their work with the social and political upheavals of the era, making their radical experiments with editing, visual style and narrative part of a general break with the conservative paradigm. The Left Bank, or \"Rive Gauche\", group is a contingent of filmmakers associated with the French New Wave, first identified as such by Richard Roud. The corresponding \"right bank\" group is constituted of the more famous and financially successful New Wave directors associated with \"Cahiers du cinéma\" (Claude Chabrol, François Truffaut, and Jean-Luc Godard). Left Bank directors include Chris Marker, Alain Resnais, and Agnès Varda. Roud described a distinctive \"fondness for a kind of Bohemian life and an impatience with the conformity of the Right Bank, a high degree of involvement in literature and the plastic arts, and a consequent interest in experimental filmmaking\", as well as an identification with the political left. Other film \"new waves\" from around the world associated with the 1960s are New German Cinema, Czechoslovak New Wave, Brazilian Cinema Novo and Japanese New Wave. During the 1960s, the term \"art film\" began to be much more widely used in the United States than in Europe. In the U.S., the term is often defined very broadly, to include foreign-language (non-English) \"auteur\" films, independent films, experimental films, documentaries and short films. In the 1960s \"art film\" became a euphemism in the U.S. for racy Italian and French B-movies. By the 1970s, the term was used to describe sexually explicit European films with artistic structure such as the Swedish film \"I Am Curious (Yellow)\". The 1960s was an important period in art film; the release of a number of groundbreaking films giving rise to the European art cinema which had countercultural traits in filmmakers such as Michelangelo Antonioni, Federico Fellini, Pier Paolo Pasolini, Luis Buñuel and Bernardo Bertolucci.\n\nCultural historians–such as Theodore Roszak in his 1986 essay \"From Satori to Silicon Valley\" and John Markoff in his book \"What the Dormouse Said\", have pointed out that many of the early pioneers of personal computing emerged from within the West Coast counterculture. Many early computing and networking pioneers, after discovering LSD and roaming the campuses of UC Berkeley, Stanford, and MIT in the late 1960s and early 1970s, would emerge from this caste of social \"misfits\" to shape the modern world of technology, especially in Silicon Valley.\n\nMany hippies rejected mainstream organized religion in favor of a more personal spiritual experience, often drawing on indigenous and folk beliefs. If they adhered to mainstream faiths, hippies were likely to embrace Buddhism, Daoism, Hinduism, Unitarian Universalism and the restorationist Christianity of the Jesus Movement. Some hippies embraced neo-paganism, especially Wicca. Wicca is a witchcraft religion which became more prominent beginning in 1951, with the repeal of the Witchcraft Act of 1735, after which Gerald Gardner and then others such as Charles Cardell and Cecil Williamson began publicising their own versions of the Craft. Gardner and others never used the term \"Wicca\" as a religious identifier, simply referring to the \"witch cult\", \"witchcraft\", and the \"Old Religion\". However, Gardner did refer to witches as \"the Wica\". During the 1960s, the name of the religion normalised to \"Wicca\". Gardner's tradition, later termed Gardnerianism, soon became the dominant form in England and spread to other parts of the British Isles. Following Gardner's death in 1964, the Craft continued to grow unabated despite sensationalism and negative portrayals in British tabloids, with new traditions being propagated by figures like Robert Cochrane, Sybil Leek and most importantly Alex Sanders, whose Alexandrian Wicca, which was predominantly based upon Gardnerian Wicca, albeit with an emphasis placed on ceremonial magic, spread quickly and gained much media attention.\n\nIn his 1991 book, \"Hippies and American Values\", Timothy Miller described the hippie ethos as essentially a \"religious movement\" whose goal was to transcend the limitations of mainstream religious institutions. \"Like many dissenting religions, the hippies were enormously hostile to the religious institutions of the dominant culture, and they tried to find new and adequate ways to do the tasks the dominant religions failed to perform.\" In his seminal, contemporaneous work, \"The Hippie Trip\", author Lewis Yablonsky notes that those who were most respected in hippie settings were the spiritual leaders, the so-called \"high priests\" who emerged during that era.\n\nOne such hippie \"high priest\" was San Francisco State College instructor Stephen Gaskin. Beginning in 1966, Gaskin's \"Monday Night Class\" eventually outgrew the lecture hall, and attracted 1,500 hippie followers in an open discussion of spiritual values, drawing from Christian, Buddhist, and Hindu teachings. In 1970, Gaskin founded a Tennessee community called The Farm, and he still lists his religion as \"Hippie.\"\n\nTimothy Leary was an American psychologist and writer, known for his advocacy of psychedelic drugs. On September 19, 1966, Leary founded the League for Spiritual Discovery, a religion declaring LSD as its holy sacrament, in part as an unsuccessful attempt to maintain legal status for the use of LSD and other psychedelics for the religion's adherents based on a \"freedom of religion\" argument. \"The Psychedelic Experience\" was the inspiration for John Lennon's song \"Tomorrow Never Knows\" in The Beatles' album \"Revolver\". He published a pamphlet in 1967 called \"Start Your Own Religion\" to encourage just that (see below under \"writings\") and was invited to attend the January 14, 1967 Human Be-In a gathering of 30,000 hippies in San Francisco's Golden Gate Park In speaking to the group, he coined the famous phrase \"Turn on, tune in, drop out\".\n\nThe \"Principia Discordia\" is the founding text of Discordianism written by Greg Hill (Malaclypse the Younger) and Kerry Wendell Thornley (Lord Omar Khayyam Ravenhurst). It was originally published under the title \"Principia Discordia or How The West Was Lost\" in a limited edition of five copies in 1965. The title, literally meaning \"Discordant Principles\", is in keeping with the tendency of Latin to prefer hypotactic grammatical arrangements. In English, one would expect the title to be \"Principles of Discord.\"\n\nThe lasting impact, including unintended consequences, creative output and general legacy of the counterculture era continue to be actively discussed, debated, despised and celebrated.\n\nEven the notions of when the counterculture subsumed the Beat Generation, when it gave way to the successor generation, and what happened in between are open for debate. According to notable UK Underground and counterculture author Barry Miles, \"It seemed to me that the Seventies was when most of the things that people attribute to the sixties really happened: this was the age of extremes, people took more drugs, had longer hair, weirder clothes, had more sex, protested more violently and encountered more opposition from the establishment. It was the era of sex and drugs and rock'n'roll, as Ian Dury said. The countercultural explosion of the 1960s really only involved a few thousand people in the UK and perhaps ten times that in the USA – largely because of opposition to the Vietnam war, whereas in the Seventies the ideas had spread out across the world.\n\nA Columbia University teaching unit on the counterculture era notes: \"Although historians disagree over the influence of the counterculture on American politics and society, most describe the counterculture in similar terms. Virtually all authors—for example, on the right, Robert Bork in \"Slouching Toward Gomorrah: Modern Liberalism and American Decline\" (New York: Regan Books,1996) and, on the left, Todd Gitlin in \"The Sixties: Years of Hope, Days of Rage\" (New York: Bantam Books, 1987)—characterize the counterculture as self-indulgent, childish, irrational, narcissistic, and even dangerous. Even so, many liberal and leftist historians find constructive elements in it, while those on the right tend not to.\"\n\nScreen legend John Wayne equated aspects of 1960s social programs with the rise of the welfare state, \"... I know all about that. In the late Twenties, when I was a sophomore at USC, I was a socialist myself—but not when I left. The average college kid idealistically wishes everybody could have ice cream and cake for every meal. But as he gets older and gives more thought to his and his fellow man's responsibilities, he finds that it can't work out that way—that some people just won't carry their load ... I believe in welfare—a welfare work program. I don't think a fella should be able to sit on his backside and receive welfare. I'd like to know why well-educated idiots keep apologizing for lazy and complaining people who think the world owes them a living. I'd like to know why they make excuses for cowards who spit in the faces of the police and then run behind the judicial sob sisters. I can't understand these people who carry placards to save the life of some criminal, yet have no thought for the innocent victim.\"\n\nFormer liberal Democrat Ronald Reagan, who later became a conservative Governor of California and 40th President of the US, remarked about one group of protesters carrying signs, \"The last bunch of pickets were carrying signs that said 'Make love, not war.' The only trouble was they didn't look capable of doing either.\"\n\nThe \"generation gap\" between the affluent young and their often poverty-scarred parents was a critical component of 1960s culture. In an interview with journalist Gloria Steinem during the 1968 US presidential campaign, soon-to-be First Lady Pat Nixon exposed the generational chasm in worldview between Steinem, 20 years her junior, and herself after Steinem probed Mrs. Nixon as to her youth, role models, and lifestyle. A hardscrabble child of the Great Depression, Pat Nixon told Steinem, \"I never had time to think about things like that, who I wanted to be, or who I admired, or to have ideas. I never had time to dream about being anyone else. I had to work. I haven't just sat back and thought of myself or my ideas or what I wanted to do ... I've kept working. I don't have time to worry about who I admire or who I identify with. I never had it easy. I'm not at all like you ... all those people who had it easy.\"\n\nIn economic terms, it has been contended that the counterculture really only amounted to creating new marketing segments for the \"hip\" crowd.\n\nEven before the counterculture movement reached its peak of influence, the concept of the adoption of socially-responsible policies by establishment corporations was discussed by economist and Nobel laureate Milton Friedman (1962): \"Few trends could so thoroughly undermine the very foundation of our free society as the acceptance by corporate officials of a social responsibility other than to make as much money for their stockholders as possible. This is a fundamentally subversive doctrine. If businessmen do have a social responsibility other than making maximum profits for stockholders, how are they to know what it is? Can self-selected private individuals decide what the social interest is?\"\n\nIn the UK, commentator Peter Hitchens identified the counterculture as one of the contributing factors to what he saw as the malaise in British politics in 2009.\nIn 2003, author and former Free Speech activist Greil Marcus was quoted, \"What happened four decades ago is history. It's not just a blip in the history of trends. Whoever shows up at a march against war in Iraq, it always takes place with a memory of the efficacy and joy and gratification of similar protests that took place in years before ... It doesn't matter that there is no counterculture, because counterculture of the past gives people a sense that their own difference matters.\"\n\nWhen asked about the prospects of the counterculture movement moving forward in the digital age, former Grateful Dead lyricist and self-styled \"cyberlibertarian\" John Perry Barlow said, \"I started out as a teenage beatnik and then became a hippie and then became a cyberpunk. And now I'm still a member of the counterculture, but I don't know what to call that. And I'd been inclined to think that that was a good thing, because once the counterculture in America gets a name then the media can coopt it, and the advertising industry can turn it into a marketing foil. But you know, right now I'm not sure that it is a good thing, because we don't have any flag to rally around. Without a name there may be no coherent movement.\"\n\nDuring the era, conservative students objected to the counterculture and found ways to celebrate their conservative ideals by reading books like J. Edgar Hoover's \"A Study of Communism\", joining student organizations like the College Republicans, and organizing Greek events which reinforced gender norms.\n\nFree Speech advocate and social anthropologist Jentri Anders observed that a number of freedoms were endorsed within a countercultural community in which she lived and studied: \"freedom to explore one's potential, freedom to create one's Self, freedom of personal expression, freedom from scheduling, freedom from rigidly defined roles and hierarchical statuses ...\" Additionally, Anders believed some in the counterculture wished to modify children's education so that it didn't discourage, but rather encouraged, \"aesthetic sense, love of nature, passion for music, desire for reflection, or strongly marked independence.\"\n\nIn 2007, Merry Prankster Carolyn \"Mountain Girl\" Garcia commented, \"I see remnants of that movement everywhere. It's sort of like the nuts in Ben and Jerry's ice cream -- it's so thoroughly mixed in, we sort of expect it. The nice thing is that eccentricity is no longer so foreign. We've embraced diversity in a lot of ways in this country. I do think it's done us a tremendous service.\"\n\nThe following people are well known for their involvement in 1960s era counterculture. Some are key incidental or contextual figures, such as Beat Generation figures who also participated directly in the later counterculture era. The primary area(s) of each figure's notability are indicated, per these figures' Wikipedia pages. This section is not intended be exhaustive, but rather a representative cross section of individuals active within the larger movement. Although many of the people listed are known for civil rights activism, some figures whose primary notability was within the realm of the Civil Rights Movement are listed elsewhere. This section is not intended to create associations between any of the listed figures beyond what is documented elsewhere. (see also: List of civil rights leaders; Key figures of the New Left; Timeline of 1960s counterculture). \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "295411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=295411", "title": "Cross-cap", "text": "Cross-cap\n\nIn mathematics, a cross-cap is a two-dimensional surface in 3-space that is one-sided and the continuous image of a Möbius strip that intersects itself in an interval. In the domain, the inverse image of this interval is a longer interval that the mapping into 3-space \"folds in half\". At the point where the longer interval is folded in half in the image, the nearby configuration is that of the Whitney umbrella. \n\nThe interval of self intersection precludes the cross-cap from being homeomorphic to the Möbius strip, but there are only two points in the image (the endpoints of the interval of self-intersection) where the image cannot be that of an immersion. The bounding edge of a cross-cap is a simple closed loop. Like certain versions of the Möbius strip, it may take the form of a symmetrical circle.\n\nA cross-cap that has been closed up by gluing a disc to its boundary is a model of the real projective plane P (again with an interval of self-intersection, and two points where this model is not an immersion of P).\n\nTwo cross-caps glued together at their boundaries form a model of the Klein bottle, this time with two intervals of self-intersection and four points where this model is not an immersion.\n\nAn important theorem of topology, the classification theorem for surfaces, states that each two-dimensional compact manifold without boundary is homeomorphic to a sphere with some number (possibly 0) of \"handles\" and 0, 1, or 2 cross-caps.\n\n"}
{"id": "7884801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7884801", "title": "Dashboard of Sustainability", "text": "Dashboard of Sustainability\n\nThe Dashboard of Sustainability is a free-of-charge, non-commercial software package configured to convey the complex relationships among economic, social, and environmental issues.\nThe software is designed to help developing countries achieve the Millennium Development Goals and work towards sustainable development. The software package was developed by members of the Consultative Group on Sustainable Development Indicators (CGSDI), and has been applied to quite a number of indicator sets, inter alia to the Millennium Development Goals indicators and the United Nations Commission on Sustainable Development indicators.\n\nIn 2002, Dashboard of Sustainability researchers Jochen Jesinghaus and Peter Hardi presented the Dashboard of Sustainability at the Johannesburg Summit and the 2002 World Social Forum in Porto Alegre. It was also included in the resources for the OECD World Forum on Key Indicators.\n\nIn January 2006, the Millennium Project utilized the Dashboard of Sustainability to conclude in their State of the Future report that global prospects for improving the overall health, wealth, and sustainability of humanity are improving, but slowly. In February 2006, it was proposed that the Dashboard of Sustainability be utilized to combine and represent two or more of the following five frameworks presently used for developing sustainability indicators: domain-based, goal-based, issue-based, sectoral, and causal frameworks.\n\n\"Translating a spreadsheet into a dashboard is relatively straightforward, see \"The Manual\", and numerous indicator sets have been translated into the dashboard format. While many of them are not publicly available, the following applications have been put online by their authors.\"\n\nMillennium Development Goals Indicators Dashboard - see screenshot to the right\n\nSustainable Development Indicators Dashboard (UN CSD set)\n\nUNESCO/SCOPE Policy brief on Sustainable Development \nMaternal and Neonatal Program Effort index (MNPI) \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41591480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41591480", "title": "Dhi (Hindu thought)", "text": "Dhi (Hindu thought)\n\nDhi (Sanskrit: धी), this Sanskrit word means 'understanding', 'reflection', 'religious thought', 'mind', 'design', 'intelligence', 'opinion', 'meditation', 'imagination', 'notion', 'intellect', This word is directly connected with the word, Vāc (Sanskrit: वाच) meaning Speech, derived from Vac (Sanskrit: वच) meaning, 'to speak'. \"Dhi\" is the voiced \"Vāc\" or 'Speech', it is the thought-mind or intellect. \"Dhi\" also means 'to hold' or 'to place', and indicates the activity of the intellect.\n\nThe natural meaning of \"Dhi\" is 'Thought' which corresponds to the Sanskrit word \"Buddhi\" which means 'the activity of mind', 'thought', 'understanding' and 'intelligence'. Vedic Sanskrit employs two words \"Dhi\" and Brahman for prayerful or meditative contemplation in which context \"Dhi\" means 'visionary insight', 'intense thought and reflection', and the word Brahman is derived from the root \"brh\", meaning 'to grow', 'to expand'.\nManu Smriti describes ten essential rules for observance of Dharma (the path of righteousness or the 'Law of Being', which binds the people of this world and the whole creation) – \"Dhriti\" ('patience'), \"Kshama\" ('forgiveness'), \"Dama\" ('self-control'), \"Asteya\" ('honesty'), \"Shauch\" ('purity'), \"Indriya-nigrah\" ('control of senses'), \"Dhi\" ('reasoning'), \"Vidya\" ('knowledge and learning'), \"Satya\" ('truthfulness') and \"Akrodha\" ('control of anger').\n\nDhi, the prefix of \"Dhimahi\" and \"Dhiyo\" occurring in the Gayatri Mantra (Rig VedaIII.62.10) refers to 'understanding', and its cognate word \"Buddhi\" means 'reasoning faculty of the mind', which understanding must be transcended to experience the Ultimate Reality. The word, \"Dhira\", meaning 'calm', denotes the seeker whose intellect is saturated in knowledge which word is the combination of \"Dhi\" meaning 'intellect' and \"ra\" meaning 'fire' or 'wisdom'.\nThe Non-Atman i.e. the Anatman, which is by its nature disagreeable, is the object of the function of \"Dhi\" (=\"buddhi\") which reveals the joy (\"ananda\"), the nature of the individual consciousness.\nPatanjali defines Yoga as neutralization of the alternating waves in consciousness; in the phrase \"citta vritti nirodha\" (Yoga Sutra I.2), \"Citta\" refers to the 'thinking principle' and includes 'pranic life forces', to \"Manas\" ('mind' or 'sense consciousness'), \"Ahamkara\" ('egoity') and \"Buddhi\" ('intuitive intelligence'), and \"Vritti\" refers to the waves of thought and emotion that ceaselessly arise and Nirodha refers to 'neutralization', 'cessation' or 'control'. The root \"budh\" and its derivatives appear in the Vedas in the sense of 'kindling' or 'awakening', the word \"buddhi\" appears for the first time in \"Samkhyayana Brahmana Upanishad\". \"Dhi\" is derived from \"dhriti\" and its cognate \"didhiti\", it also refers to flash of intuition which is beyond all purely sensuous perception. The mental organs are \"manas\" ('mind') and \"hrd\" ('heart'), and the mental faculties are \"citta\" ('thought'), \"dhi\" ('mental vision') and \"kratu\" ('mental power'). \"Manas\" is said to perform the processes indicated by the verbal roots \"'cit-\", \"dhi-\" and \"man-\"; \"dhi\" requires \"kratu\" in actualizing visions.\n\nDhi refers to 'vision' or 'inspiration which is the exceptional faculty of acquiring a sudden knowledge of transcendent truth or reality', 'the inner light of visionary insight'. Soma is the Lord of Vision who dispenses inspiration and Speech (Vāc) is inspired thought (\"manisa\") or wisdom guarded by the seers on the seat of \"Rta\". The Rig Veda links language not only to thought (\"manas\") but also to vision (\"dhi\"), a word from which comes \"Dhyana\" meaning 'meditation'.\nIn the Yajurveda (29.8), Sarasvati, the Goddess of Speech, is invoked to grant the gift of \"Dhi\", inspired thought, and thought is linked with \"Vāc\"; Sarasvati is also known as the river of inspired thought,\n\nThe Vedas are the sacred texts of the Hindus. They are the repository of what is the known or required to be known, in other words, the true knowledge or the transcendent eternal wisdom articulated in Sound ('sabda') or Speech ('vāc'). The Vedic seers have associated the power of speech or the spoken word with ultimacy and transcendence – \"ekam sat\" (Rig Veda I.164.46). They also know Vishwakarma, the creator, as Vācaspati, the Lord of Speech (Rig Veda X.81.7) (who is also called Brihaspati and Brahmanaspati), and that Vāc or speech or utterance as Brahman is the creative principle and the absolute force in the universe; the person who has gained its knowledge is said to have attained the highest knowledge (Rig Veda X.125.5). As far as Brahman extends so far does \"Vāc\" (Rig Veda X.114.8).\n\nThe Inspired thought (\"dhi\") that precedes utterance though connected with speech undergoes some modifications while being transformed into speech; the Vedic Rishis tell us that the thoughtful one's produce speech with their mind (Rig Veda X.71.2), the different stages in transformation from \"dhi\" to \"vāc\" are described in the Atharvaveda (VII.1.1). \"Dhi\" is the voiced speech. Goddess Saraswati presides over speech but \"vāc\" extends far above and beyond Saraswati (Rig Veda X.125) beyond all known spheres (Rig Veda X.114.8). Vāc is dependent on breath or air; and the Aitareya Brahmana (IV.42.1) states \"Brahman vai vāk\", Vāc is the mother of the Vedas and the Vedas themselves (Shatapatha Brahmana (6.5.3.4).\nThe Vedas are a form of the ritual and cosmological \"Vāc\" (speech). Vāc is presented as consort of Prajapati (Kathaka Samhita 12.5.27.1) whom the Brahmanas express as 'the expressed' (\"nirukta\") and as the 'unexpressed' (\"anirukta\"), the limited and the unlimited. Taittiriya Aranyaka tells us that Vāc is the imperishable one, the (\"Aksara\"), the first-born of the cosmic order (\"Rta\"), the mother of the Vedas (\"vedanam mata\"), the navel of immortality (\"Amrita\") and therefore Vedas themselves are infinite (\"Ananta\"), immortal (\"amrta\") and imperishable (\"akshita\"). The \"Jaiminiya Upanishad\" tells us that Aum or Om, the essence of all essences, is Vāc. On the human plane the mind precedes speech, and on the cosmic plane Prajapati precedes \"vāc\" as the Lord of Thought and Speech, who brings forth \"vāc\" to unite with \"vāc\" to manifest creation.\n\"Vāc\" was probably the language commonly spoken by the Vedic people as the language of men. \"Vāc\" is another name for Aditi or Viraj.\n\nFor the purpose of invoking Agni and other \"devatas\", the mantras of the Rig Veda have a very essential role to play because the \"Upasaka\" when meditating is required to think of the Rcs as Vāc i.e. speech; it is for this reason that the mantras are chanted and there is a prescribed way to do that chanting. Rishi Medhatithi Kanva (Rig Veda I.12.11) prays:\n\n\"May Agni accept the words of praise (adoration) set in newer hymns composed in Gayatri metre and devoutly sung (chanted), (May Agni) accept the oblations made in it (in the prescribed manner) of the offerings rightly earned and belonging to the performers of rites.\" And, Rishi Ayasya (Rig Veda IX.46.2) praying thus-\n\ninforms us that having acquired the knowledge of the highest the learned people (easily) unravel the deeply hidden meaning of the most subtle kind. This means, that each experience of ours is a re-discovery of ourselves, and that in order to really re-discover ourselves so as to understand our true nature we have to firstly awaken our mind, then make the mind speak loudly enough to be heard because Prana, which is the body of the mind, is that very silence waiting to be heard. A sage of the Rig Veda (Rig Veda X.20.9) states that the creator vested \"Agni\" with three coloured flames and made it brilliant, eminent, swift-acting and hot. The sage of the Chandogya Upanishad tells us that behind all things are these three colours, the rest constituted out of them are a modification and a name. Speech is Rk or \"Brhati\" identified with \"Prana\" whose lord is Brihaspati, the same lord is Brahmanaspati when speech is \"Yajus\" associated with Brahman. Speech is \"Sama\"; it cannot reveal itself for it is as formless as the air on which it rides; it rides upon the streams of air constituting the wind, and words once uttered do not return to the speaker.\n\nYajnavalkya tells King Janaka that the light that comes nearest to the supreme light of the Atman is the light of Vāc i.e. speech, since it is the supreme faculty of reason that finally lifts the consciousness towards the pure self-shining awareness of the Atman, and which after serving as a pointer vanishes or goes to rest. The Vedic sages have all along advocated 'Truth', 'Penance' and 'Study' as special virtues. Amongst these three special virtues Truth is held out to be the supreme virtue to be practised by all aspirants. All primary virtues are firstly imbibed from the parents; Satyakama Jabala acquired the spirit of truthfulness from his mother, and Sanat Kumara taught Narada that Truth has to be sought for realization – \"when one indeed understands Truth in its reality one speaks the truth\".\n\nWhile describing the rituals associated with the Ashvamedha yajna, in the Brihadaranyaka Upanishad we are told that the neighing of the horse, representing the cosmos, is Vāc.\n\nA sage of the Chandogya Upanishad after declaring that the syllable \"Aum\", having the individual and also the cosmic efficacy, not only serves to help the meditation of the individual person but even the Sun travels the universe singing \"Aum\" as does \"Prana\" moving in the body (Ch.Up.I.5.1,3) explains that that \"Aum\" is the essence of all beings on this earth, the essence of a person is speech and the essence of speech is the Rig Veda (Ch.Up.I.1.2) but the essence of Samaveda, which is the essence of the Rig Veda, is \"Udgitha\" which is \"Aum\". He declares that all speech is interwoven on the symbol \"Aum\", in the same manner as the leaves of a tree are woven together on a stalk (Ch.Up.II.23.3). Speech is the fuel of fire which is man (Ch.Up.V.7.1). Mind consists of 'food', the Prana consists of 'water' and speech consists of 'fire' (Ch.Up.VI.6.5). Narada is told by Sanat Kumara that all this is but a name by which one knows, even then speech is greater than name because if there is no speech neither righteousness nor unrighteousness would be known, but surely the mind is greater than speech for mind is the entire world (Ch.Up.VII.2 & 3) establishing the claim of the mind (\"dhi\") for primacy over speech (\"vāc\").\n"}
{"id": "45487739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45487739", "title": "Differential outcomes effect", "text": "Differential outcomes effect\n\nThe differential outcomes effect is a theory in behaviorism, a branch of psychology, that shows that a positive effect on accuracy occurs in discrimination learning between different stimuli when unique rewards are paired with each individual stimulus. The DOE was first demonstrated in 1970 by Milton Trapold on an experiment with rats. Rats were trained to discriminate between a clicker and a tone by pressing the left and right levers. Half of the rats were trained using the differential outcomes procedure, where the clicker was paired with sucrose and tone with food pellets. The remaining rats were trained with only sucrose or only food pellets. The rats trained with the differential outcomes procedure were significantly more accurate than those trained with only one type of reinforcement (common outcome). Since then it has been established through a myriad of experiments that the Differential Outcome Effect exists in most species capable of learning.\n\nThe Differential Outcomes Effect not only states that an association between a stimulus and a response is formed as traditional Classical Conditioning states, but that a simultaneous association is formed between a stimulus and a reinforcer in the subject. If one were to pair a stimulus with a reinforcer, that is known as a differential condition. When this is employed, one can expect a higher accuracy in tests when discriminating between two stimuli, due to this increased amount of information available to the subject than in a nondifferential condition.\n\nIn 1970 the Differential Outcome Effect was discovered by Trapold when testing the reasoning behind the theory. He created an experiment where rats were taught to discriminate between a clicking noise and a tone. He associated the left bar with the clicking noise and the right bar with the tone. The experimental group was given sucrose for one response and food for the other. The control group was randomly given either food or sucrose for each response. The rats in the experimental group were able to discriminate between the two stimuli faster than the rats in the control group.\n\nThe Differential Outcome Effect was then found to exist in various species including but not limited to rats, pigeons and horses, over the years and was then finally explored in humans by Pauline Maki, J. Bruce Overmier, Sandra Delos, and Arlyne Gutmann in 1995. They tested children who were from 4 to 7 years old to discriminate between two different shapes. Children who were given either a reinforcer consisting of food for one response or given a verbal reinforcer for another response gave far more accurate answers than those who were given random reinforcers for different responses.\n\nThen in 2002; Odette Miller, Kevin Waugh and Karen Chambers proved that Differential Outcome Effect exists in adults. This experiment was novel because it first used average adults (college students) in the experiment, and had a complex discrimination task which required participants to be able to distinguish between 15 different Kanji characters. In prior experiments, participants were only required to discriminate between two different stimuli. For the participants in the group given a differential condition, each Kanji character was given a unique photo and prize for answering correctly. Participants in the group given a nondifferential condition were given a random photo and prize for answering the question correctly. The group given a differential condition fared far better than those in the group with the nondifferential condition, demonstrating that the Differential Outcome Effect not only exists in adult humans but also can be applied to tasks requiring discrimination of more than two stimuli.\n\nMore recently several studies have looked at the applications of the differential outcomes effect for populations with intellectual disabilities and pervasive developmental disabilities. Scientist have theorised that this procedure may be useful in overcoming barriers to learning.\n"}
{"id": "1649105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1649105", "title": "Digital identity", "text": "Digital identity\n\nA digital identity is information on an entity used by computer systems to represent an external agent. That agent may be a person, organization, application, or device. ISO/IEC 24760-1 defines identity as \"set of attributes related to an entity\".\n\nThe information contained in a digital identity allows for assessment and authentication of a user interacting with a business system on the web, without the involvement of human operators. Digital identities allow our access to computers and the services they provide to be automated, and make it possible for computers to mediate relationships.\n\nThe term \"digital identity\" has also come to denote aspects of civil and personal identity that have resulted from the widespread use of identity information to represent people in computer systems.\n\nDigital identity is now often used in ways that require data about persons stored in computer systems to be linked to their civil, or national, identities. Furthermore, the use of digital identities are now so widespread that many discussions refer to \"digital identity\" as the entire collection of information generated by a person’s online activity. This includes usernames and passwords, online search activities, birth date, social security, and purchasing history. Especially where that information is publicly available and not anonymized, and can be used by others to discover that person's civil identity. In this wider sense, a digital identity is a version, or facet, of a person's social identity. This may also be referred to as an online identity.\n\nThe legal and social effects of digital identity are complex and challenging. However, they are simply a consequence of the increasing use of computers, and the need to provide computers with information that can be used to identify external agents.\n\nA critical problem in cyberspace is knowing with whom one is interacting. Using static identifiers such as password and email there are no ways to precisely determine the identity of a person in digital space, because this information can be stolen or used by many individuals acting as one. Digital identity based on dynamic entity relationships captured from behavioral history across multiple websites and mobile apps can verify and authenticate an identity with up to 95 percent accuracy.\n\nBy comparing a set of entity relationships between a new event (e.g., login) and past events, a pattern of convergence can verify or authenticate the identity as legitimate where divergence indicates an attempt to mask an identity. Data used for digital identity is generally anonymized using a one-way hash, thereby avoiding privacy concerns. Because it is based on behavioral history, a digital identity is impossible to fake or steal.\n\nA digital identity may also be referred to as a digital Subject or digital entity and is the digital representation of a set of claims made by one party about itself or another person, group, thing or concept.\n\nEvery digital identity has zero or more identity attributes. Attributes are acquired and contain information about a subject, such as medical history, purchasing behaviour, bank balance, age and so on. Preferences retain a subject's choices such as favourite brand of shoes, preferred currency. Traits are features of the subject that are inherent, such as eye colour, nationality, place of birth. While attributes of a subject can change easily, traits change slowly, if at all. Digital identity also has entity relationships derived from the devices, environment and locations from which an individual transacts on the web.\n\nIn order to assign a digital representation to an entity, the attributing party must trust that the claim of an attribute (such as name, location, role as an employee, or age) is correct and associated with the person or thing presenting the attribute (see Authentication below). Conversely, the individual claiming an attribute may only grant selective access to its information, e.g. (proving identity in a bar or PayPal authentication for payment at a web site). In this way, digital identity is better understood as a particular viewpoint within a mutually-agreed relationship than as an objective property.\n\nAuthentication is a key aspect of trust-based identity attribution, providing a codified assurance of the identity of one entity to another. Authentication methodologies include the presentation of a unique object such as a bank credit card, the provision of confidential information such as a password or the answer to a pre-arranged question, the confirmation of ownership of an e-mail address, and more robust but relatively costly solutions utilizing encryption methodologies. In general, business-to-business authentication prioritises security while user to business authentication tends towards simplicity. Physical authentication techniques such as iris scanning, handprinting, and voiceprinting are currently being developed and in the hope of providing improved protection against identity theft. Those techniques fall into the area of Biometry (biometrics). A combination of static identifiers (username & passwords) along with personal unique attributes (biometrics), would allow for multi factor authentication. This process would yield more creditable authentication, which in nature is much more difficult to be cracked and manipulated.\n\nWhilst technological progress in authentication continues to evolve, these systems do not prevent aliases from being used. The introduction of strong authentication for online payment transactions within the European Union now links a verified person to an account, where such person has been identified in accordance with statutory requirements prior to account being opened. Verifying a person opening an account online typically requires a form of device binding to the credentials being used. This verifies that the device that stands in for a person on the Web is actually the individuals device and not the device of someone simply claiming to be the individual. The concept of reliance authentication makes use of pre-existing accounts, to piggy back further services upon those accounts, providing that the original source is reliable. The concept of reliability comes from various anti-money laundering and counter-terrorism funding legislation in the USA, EU28, Australia, Singapore and New Zealand where second parties may place reliance on the customer due diligence process of the first party, where the first party is say a financial institution. An example of reliance authentication is PayPal's verification method.\n\nAuthorization is the determination of any entity that controls resources that the authenticated can access those resources. Authorization depends on authentication, because authorization requires that the critical attribute (i.e., the attribute that determines the authorizer's decision) must be verified. For example, authorization on a credit card gives access to the resources owned by Amazon, e.g., Amazon sends one a product. Authorization of an employee will provide that employee with access to network resources, such as printers, files, or software. For example, a database management system might be designed so as to provide certain specified individuals with the ability to retrieve information from a database but not the ability to change data stored in the database, while giving other individuals the ability to change data.\n\nConsider the person who rents a car and checks into a hotel with a credit card. The car rental and hotel company may request authentication that there is credit enough for an accident, or profligate spending on room service. Thus a card may be refused when trying to book the balloon trip, though there is adequate credit to pay for the rental, the hotel, and the balloon trip. Then when the person leaves the hotel and returns the car, the actual charges are authorized (too late for the balloon trip).\n\nValid online authorization requires analysis of information related to the digital event including device and environmental variables. These are generally derived from the hundreds of entities exchanged between a device and business server to support an event using standard Internet protocols.\n\nDigital identity fundamentally requires digital identifiers—strings or tokens that are unique within a given scope (globally or locally within a specific domain, community, directory, application, etc.). Identifiers are the key used by the parties to an identification relationship to agree on the entity being represented. Identifiers may be classified as \"omnidirectional\" and \"unidirectional\". Omnidirectional identifiers are intended to be public and easily discoverable, while unidirectional identifiers are intended to be private and used only in the context of a specific identity relationship.\n\nIdentifiers may also be classified as resolvable or non-resolvable. Resolvable identifiers, such as a domain name or e-mail address, may be dereferenced into the entity they represent, or some current state data providing relevant attributes of that entity. Non-resolvable identifiers, such as a person's real-world name, or a subject or topic name, can be compared for equivalence but are not otherwise machine-understandable.\n\nThere are many different schemes and formats for digital identifiers. The most widely used is Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) and its internationalized version Internationalized Resource Identifier (IRI)—the standard for identifiers on the World Wide Web. OpenID and Light-Weight Identity (LID) are two web authentication protocols that use standard HTTP URIs (often called URLs), for example.\n\nDigital Object Architecture (DOA) provides a means of managing digital information in a network environment. A digital object has a machine and platform independent structure that allows it to be identified, accessed and protected, as appropriate. A digital object may incorporate not only informational elements, i.e., a digitized version of a paper, movie or sound recording, but also the unique identifier of the digital object and other metadata about the digital object. The metadata may include restrictions on access to digital objects, notices of ownership, and identifiers for licensing agreements, if appropriate.\n\nThe Handle System is a general purpose distributed information system that provides efficient, extensible, and secure identifier and resolution services for use on networks such as the internet. It includes an open set of protocols, a namespace, and a reference implementation of the protocols. The protocols enable a distributed computer system to store identifiers, known as handles, of arbitrary resources and resolve those handles into the information necessary to locate, access, contact, authenticate, or otherwise make use of the resources. This information can be changed as needed to reflect the current state of the identified resource without changing its identifier, thus allowing the name of the item to persist over changes of location and other related state information. The original version of the Handle System technology was developed with support from the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA).\n\nA new OASIS standard for abstract, structured identifiers, XRI (Extensible Resource Identifiers), adds new features to URIs and IRIs that are especially useful for digital identity systems. OpenID also supports XRIs, and XRIs are the basis for i-names.\n\nRisk-Based Authentication is an application of digital identity whereby multiple entity relationship from the device (e.g., operating system), environment (e.g., DNS Server) and data entered by a user for any given transaction is evaluated for correlation with events from known behaviors for the same identity. Analysis are performed based on quantifiable metrics, such as transaction velocity, locale settings (or attempts to obfuscate), and user-input data (such as ship-to address). Correlation and deviation are mapped to tolerances and scored, then aggregated across multiple entities to compute a transaction risk-score, which assess the risk posed to an organization.\n\nThere are proponents of treating self-determination and freedom of expression of digital identity as a new human right. Some have speculated that digital identities could become a new form of legal entity.\n\nDigital identity attributes—or data—exist within the context of ontologies.\n\nThe development of digital identity network solutions that can interoperate taxonomically-diverse representations of digital identity is a contemporary challenge. Free-tagging has emerged recently as an effective way of circumventing this challenge (to date, primarily with application to the identity of digital entities such as bookmarks and photos) by effectively flattening identity attributes into a single, unstructured layer. However, the organic integration of the benefits of both structured and fluid approaches to identity attribute management remains elusive.\n\nIdentity relationships within a digital network may include multiple identity entities. However, in a decentralised network like the Internet, such extended identity relationships effectively require both (a) the existence of independent trust relationships between each pair of entities in the relationship and (b) a means of reliably integrating the paired relationships into larger relational units. And if identity relationships are to reach beyond the context of a single, federated ontology of identity (see Taxonomies of identity above), identity attributes must somehow be matched across diverse ontologies. The development of network approaches that can embody such integrated \"compound\" trust relationships is currently a topic of much debate in the blogosphere.\n\nIntegrated compound trust relationships allow, for example, entity A to accept an assertion or claim about entity B by entity C. C thus vouches for an aspect of B's identity to A.\n\nA key feature of \"compound\" trust relationships is the possibility of selective disclosure from one entity to another of locally relevant information. As an illustration of the potential application of selective disclosure, let us suppose a certain Diana wished to book a hire car without disclosing irrelevant personal information (utilising a notional digital identity network that supports compound trust relationships). As an adult, UK resident with a current driving license, Diana might have the UK's Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency vouch for her driving qualification, age and nationality to a car-rental company without having her name or contact details disclosed. Similarly, Diana's bank might assert just her banking details to the rental company. Selective disclosure allows for appropriate privacy of information within a network of identity relationships.\n\nA classic form of networked digital identity based on international standards is the \"White Pages\".\n\nAn electronic white pages links various devices, like computers and telephones, to an individual or organization. Various attributes such as X.509v3 digital certificates for secure cryptographic communications are captured under a schema, and published in an LDAP or X.500 directory. Changes to the LDAP standard are managed by working groups in the IETF, and changes in X.500 are managed by the ISO. The ITU did significant analysis of gaps in digital identity interoperability via the FGidm, focus group on identity management.\n\nImplementations of X.500[2005] and LDAPv3 have occurred worldwide but are primarily located in major data centers with administrative policy boundaries regarding sharing of personal information. Since combined X.500 [2005] and LDAPv3 directories can hold millions of unique objects for rapid access, it is expected to play a continued role for large scale secure identity access services. LDAPv3 can act as a lightweight standalone server, or in the original design as a TCP-IP based Lightweight Directory Access Protocol compatible with making queries to a X.500 mesh of servers which can run the native OSI protocol.\n\nThis will be done by scaling individual servers into larger groupings that represent defined \"administrative domains\", (such as the country level digital object) which can add value not present in the original \"White Pages\" that was used to look up phone numbers and email addresses, largely now available through non-authoritative search engines.\n\nThe ability to leverage and extend a networked digital identity is made more practicable by the expression of the level of trust associated with the given identity through a common Identity Assurance Framework.\n\nSelf-sovereign identity (SSI) is the concept that people can store information about their digital identity in a location of their choice. This information can then provide to third parties on request. With the development of blockchain technologies decentralized identities can be based on SSI that are not owned by a single provider.\n\nWith automated face recognition, tagging, location tracking and widespread digital authentication systems many actions of a person become easily associated with identity, as a cause, sometimes privacy is lost and security is subverted. An identity system that builds on confirmed pseudonyms can provide privacy and enhance security for digital services and transactions. Cyberspace creates opportunities for identity theft. Exact copies of everything sent over a digital communications channel can be recorded. Thus, cyberspace needs a system that allows individuals to verify their identities to others without revealing to them the digital representation of their identities.\n\nWith sharing content on social media and the internet becoming a social norm there are many preventive measures that users can take to protect themselves. Companies and databases collect information about us, even if we're simply browsing the internet or online shopping. Collecting all this data allows for them to customize what we see based on what we like. Derived through algorithms these third parties gather information to track us. Regarding all of this information, many of it is stored on a cloud.   Protecting one's personal information and digital identity is a gray area. As of right now laws regarding digital safety are very vague and lack validity. In addition to the legal aspects, this ethically cross a line. We are presented with the legal terms which are known as the terms and conditions, which are discussed more in depth in Privacy, however as users we do not always know what we are agreeing to. Companies capitalize on the fine print and gather more information about us then needed for that product to successfully work. With data breaches and identity fraud occurring more and more, an example of a solution is to remove the idea of a whole identity from users. Instead of using very specific information to identify oneself online, use one thing to separate yourself from the rest of online users.\n\nAn anonymous attribute is one that retains its uniqueness, but is put through a one-way hash so that it is represented in a string of characters that have no innate meaning or value. The one-way hash is an algorithm of inordinate complexity that generates the character string so that it is indecipherable compared to the original. In this way, a social security number, can be retained for attribute comparison, but the values used for comparison, while unique, would in no way resemble the original social security number.\n\nClare Sullivan presents the grounds for digital identity as an emerging legal concept. The UK's Identity Cards Act 2006 confirms Sullivan's argument and unfolds the new legal concept involving database identity and transaction identity. Database identity refers to the collection of data that is registered about an individual within the databases of the scheme and transaction identity is a set of information that defines the individual's identity for transactional purposes. Although there is reliance on the verification of identity, none of the processes used are entirely trustworthy. The consequences of digital identity abuse and fraud are potentially serious, since in possible implications the person is held legally responsible.\n\nCorporations have begun to recognize the Internet's potential to facilitate the tailoring of the online storefront to each individual customer. Purchase suggestions, personalised adverts and other tailored marketing strategies are a great success to businesses. Such tailoring however, depends on the ability to connect attributes and preferences to the identity of the visitor.\n\nWhile many facets of digital identity are universal owing in part to the ubiquity of the Internet, some regional variations exist due to specific laws, practices and government services that are in place. For example, Digital identity in Australia can utilize services that validate Driving licences, Passports and other physical documents online to help improve the quality of a digital identity, also strict Anti-money laundering policies mean that some services, such as money transfers need a stricter level of validation of digital identity.\n\n"}
{"id": "9386948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9386948", "title": "Directed infinity", "text": "Directed infinity\n\nA directed infinity is a type of infinity in the complex plane that has a defined complex argument \"θ\" but an infinite absolute value \"r\". For example, the limit of 1/\"x\" where \"x\" is a positive real number approaching zero is a directed infinity with argument 0; however, 1/0 is not a directed infinity, but a complex infinity. Some rules for manipulation of directed infinities (with all variables finite) are:\n\n\nHere, sgn(\"z\") = is the complex signum function.\n\n"}
{"id": "3868154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3868154", "title": "Disciplinary institution", "text": "Disciplinary institution\n\nDisciplinary institutions (French: \"institution disciplinaire\") is a concept proposed by Michel Foucault in \"Discipline and Punish\" (1975). School, prison, barracks, or the hospital are examples of historical disciplinary institutions, all created in their modern form in the 19th century with the Industrial Revolution. Discipline \"cannot be identified with any one institution or apparatus,\" Deleuze explains, \"precisely because it is a type of power, a technology, that traverses every kind of apparatus or institution, linking them, prolonging them, and making them converge and function in a new way.\"\n\nThis concept may be related to the concept of \"total institution\" proposed by Erving Goffman in 1961, as well as to Louis Althusser's Ideological State Apparatuses (ISA).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6310904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6310904", "title": "Dual modular redundancy", "text": "Dual modular redundancy\n\nIn reliability engineering, dual modular redundancy (DMR) is when components of a system are duplicated, providing redundancy in case one should fail. It is particularly applied to systems where the duplicated components work in parallel, particularly in fault-tolerant computer systems. A typical example is a complex computer system which has duplicated nodes, so that should one node fail, another is ready to carry on its work.\n\nDMR provides robustness to the failure of one component, and error detection in case instruments or computers that should give the same result give different results, but does not provide error correction, as \"which\" component is correct and which is malfunctioning cannot be automatically determined. There is an old adage to this effect, stating: \"Never go to sea with two chronometers; take one or three.\" Meaning, if two chronometers contradict, how do you know which one is correct?\n\nA lockstep fault-tolerant machine uses replicated elements operating in parallel. At any time, all the replications of each element should be in the same state. The same inputs are provided to each replication, and the same outputs are expected. The outputs of the replications are compared using a voting circuit. A machine with two replications of each element is termed dual modular redundant (DMR). The voting circuit can then only detect a mismatch and recovery relies on other methods. Examples include 1ESS switch.\n\nA machine with three replications of each element is termed triple modular redundant (TMR). The voting circuit can determine which replication is in error when a two-to-one vote is observed. In this case, the voting circuit can output the correct result, and discard the erroneous version. After this, the internal state of the erroneous replication is assumed to be different from that of the other two, and the voting circuit can switch to a DMR mode. This model can be applied to any larger number of replications.\n\nThe Submarine Command System SMCS used on submarines of the Royal Navy employs duplicated central computing nodes, interconnected by a duplicated LAN.\n\n"}
{"id": "54024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54024", "title": "Equity (law)", "text": "Equity (law)\n\nIn jurisdictions following the English common law system, equity is the body of law which was developed in the English Court of Chancery and which is now administered concurrently with the common law.\n\nFor much of its history, the English common law was principally developed and administered in the central royal courts: the Court of King's Bench, the Court of Common Pleas, and the Exchequer. Equity was the name given to the law which was administered in the Court of Chancery. The Judicature Reforms in the 1870s effected a procedural fusion of the two bodies of law, ending their institutional separation. The reforms did not effect any substantive fusion, however. Judicial or academic reasoning which assumes the contrary has been described as a \"fusion fallacy\".\n\nJurisdictions which have inherited the common law system differ in their current treatment of equity. Over the course of the twentieth century some common law systems began to place less emphasis on the historical or institutional origin of substantive legal rules. In England, Australia, New Zealand, and Canada, equity remains a distinct body of law. Modern equity includes, among other things:\n\n\nThe latter part of the twentieth century saw increased debate over the utility of treating equity as a separate body of law. These debates were labelled the \"fusion wars\". A particular flashpoint in this debate centred on the concept of unjust enrichment and whether areas of law traditionally regarded as equitable could be rationalised as part of a single body of law known as the law of unjust enrichment.\n\nAfter the Norman Conquest of England in the 11th century, royal justice came to be administered in three central courts: the Court of King's Bench, the Court of Common Pleas, and the Exchequer. The common law developed in these royal courts. To commence litigation in these royal courts, it was necessary to fit one's claim within a form of action. The plaintiff would purchase a writ in the Chancery, the head of which was the Lord Chancellor. If the law provided no remedy (or no efficacious remedy), litigants could sometimes appeal directly to the King. Eventually, the King would delegate resolution of these petitions to the King's Council. These petitions were eventually delegated to the Lord Chancellor himself.\n\nIn the early history of the United States, common law was viewed as a birthright. Both the individual states and the federal government supported common law after the American Revolution. U.S. courts draw on decisions of English courts, individual state courts, and federal courts in formulating common law.\n\nBy the 14th century it appears that Chancery was operating as a court, affording remedies for which the strict procedures of the common law worked injustice or provided no remedy to a deserving plaintiff. Chancellors often had theological and clerical training and were well versed in Roman law and canon law.\n\nBy the 15th century the judicial power of Chancery was clearly recognised. Equity, as a body of rules, varied from Chancellor to Chancellor, until the end of the 16th century. After the end of the 17th century, only lawyers were appointed to the office of Chancellor. Over time, Equity developed a system of precedent much like its common-law cousin.\n\nOne area in which the Court of Chancery assumed a vital role was the enforcement of uses, a role that the rigid framework of land law could not accommodate. This role gave rise to the basic distinction between legal and equitable interests.\n\nIt was early provided that, in seeking to remove one who wrongfully entered another's land with force and arms, a person could allege disseisin (dispossession) and demand (and pay for) a writ of entry. That writ gave him the written right to re-enter his own land and established this right under the protection of the Crown if need be, whence its value. In 1253, to prevent judges from inventing new writs, Parliament provided that the power to issue writs would thereafter be transferred to judges only one writ at a time, in a \"writ for right\" package known as a form of action. However, because it was limited to enumerated writs for enumerated rights and wrongs, the writ system sometimes produced unjust results. Thus, even though the King's Bench might have jurisdiction over a case and might have the power to issue the perfect writ, the plaintiff might still not have a case if there was not a single form of action combining them. Therefore, lacking a legal remedy, the plaintiff's only option would be petitioning the King.\n\nPeople began petitioning the King for relief against unfair judgments, and as the number of petitioners rapidly grew, so the King delegated the task of hearing petitions to the Lord Chancellor. As the early Chancellors lacked formal legal training and showed little regard for precedent, their decisions were often widely diverse. In 1529, a lawyer, Sir Thomas More, was appointed as Chancellor, marking the beginning of a new era. After this time, all future Chancellors were lawyers. Beginning around 1557, records of proceedings in the Courts of Chancery were kept and several equitable doctrines developed. Criticisms continued, the most famous being 17th-century jurist John Selden's aphorism:Equity is a roguish thing: for law we have a measure, know what to trust to; equity is according to the conscience of him that is Chancellor, and as that is larger or narrower, so is equity. 'Tis all one as if they should make the standard for the measure we call a foot, a Chancellor's foot; what an uncertain measure would this be? One Chancellor has a long foot, another a short foot, a third an indifferent foot: 'tis the same thing in a Chancellor's conscience.\n\nA criticism of Chancery practice as it developed in the early medieval period was that it lacked fixed rules and that the Lord Chancellor was exercising an unbounded discretion. The counter-argument was that Equity mitigated the rigour of the common law by looking to substance rather than to form.\n\nLitigants would go 'jurisdiction shopping' and often would seek an equitable injunction prohibiting the enforcement of a common law court order. The penalty for disobeying an equitable ‘common injunction’ and enforcing a common law judgment was imprisonment.\n\nThe Chief Justice of the King's Bench, Sir Edward Coke, began the practice of issuing writs of \"habeas corpus\" that required the release of people imprisoned for contempt of chancery orders.\n\nThis tension climaxed in the Earl of Oxford's case (1615) where a judgment of Chief Justice Coke was allegedly obtained by fraud. The Lord Chancellor, Lord Ellesmere, issued a common injunction from the Chancery prohibiting the enforcement of the common law order. The two courts became locked in a stalemate, and the matter was eventually referred to the Attorney-General, Sir Francis Bacon. Sir Francis, by authority of King James I, upheld the use of the common injunction and concluded that in the event of any conflict between the common law and equity, equity would prevail. Equity's primacy in England was later enshrined in the Judicature Acts of the 1870s, which also served to fuse the courts of equity and the common law (although emphatically not the systems themselves) into one unified court system.\n\nEcclesiastical laws are a branch of English law and were English laws that dealt with matters concerning the church, this was so that religion and law was differentiated. These laws are considered an unwritten law of England and cannot be withheld in the court of law. Ecclesiastical laws are not currently established in the U.S as Common law.\n\nIn order to avoid paying land taxes and other feudal dues, lawyers developed a primitive form of trust called ‘the use’ that enabled one person (who was not required to pay tax) to hold the legal title of the land for the use of another person. The effect of this trust was that the first person owned the land under the common law, but the second person had a right to use the land under the law of equity.\n\nHenry VIII enacted the Statute of Uses in 1535 (which became effective in 1536) in an attempt to outlaw this practice and recover lost revenue. The Act effectively made the beneficial owner of the land the legal owner and therefore liable for feudal dues.\n\nThe response of the lawyers to this Statute was to create the 'use upon a use'. The Statute recognized only the first use, and so land owners were again able to separate the legal and beneficial interests in their land.\n\nFor an example, see Godwyne v. Profyt (after 1393): a petition to the Chancellor\n\nEquity remains a cornerstone of Australian private law. A string of cases in the 1980s saw the High Court of Australia re-affirm the continuing vitality of traditional equitable doctrines. The High Court has recently affirmed the importance of Equity and dismissed the suggestion that unjust enrichment has explanatory power in relation to traditional equitable doctrines such as subrogation.\n\nThe state of New South Wales is particularly well known for the strength of its Equity jurisprudence. However, it was only in 1972 with the introduction of reform to the Supreme Court Act 1970 (NSW) that empowered both the Equity and Common Law Division of the Supreme Court of NSW to grant relief in either equity or common law. In 1972 NSW also adopted one of the essential sections of the Judicature reforms, which emphasised that where there was a conflict between the common law and equity, equity would always prevail. Nevertheless, in 1984 three alumni of Sydney Law School and judges of the NSW Supreme Court, Roderick Meagher, William Gummow and John Lehane produced \"\". It remains one of the most highly regarded practitioner texts in Australia and England. The work is now in its 5th edition and edited by Dyson Heydon, former Justice of the High Court, Justice Mark Leeming of the NSW Court of Appeal, and Dr Peter Turner of Cambridge University.\n\nEquity remains a distinct part of the law of England and Wales. The main challenge to it has come from academic writers working within the law of unjust enrichment. Scholars such as Professor Birks and Professor Burrows argue that in many cases the inclusion of the label \"legal\" or \"equitable\" before a substantive rule is often unnecessary. Many English universities, such as Oxford and Cambridge, continue to teach Equity as a standalone subject. Leading practitioner texts include \"Snell's Equity\", \"Lewin on Trusts\", and \"Hayton & Underhill's Law of Trusts and Trustees\".\n\nThe courts of Scotland have never recognised a division between the normal common law and equity, and as such the Court of Session (the supreme civil court of Scotland) has exercised an equitable and inherent jurisdiction and called the \"nobile officium\". The \"nobile officium\" enables the Court to provide a legal remedy where statute or the common law are silent, and prevent mistakes in procedure or practice that would lead to injustice. The exercise of this power is limited by adherence to precedent, and when legislation or the common law already specify the relevant remedy. Thus, the Court cannot set aside a statutory power, but can deal with situations where the law is silent, or where there is an omission in statute. Such an omission is sometimes termed a \"casus improvisus\".\n\nIn India the common law doctrine of equity had traditionally been followed even after it became independent in 1947. However, in 1963 the \"Specific Relief Act\" was passed by the Parliament of India following the recommendation of the Law Commission of India and repealing the earlier \"Specific Relief Act\" of 1877. Under the 1963 Act, most equitable concepts were codified and made statutory rights, thereby ending the discretionary role of the courts to grant equitable reliefs. The rights codified under the 1963 Act were as under:\n\nWith this codification, the nature and tenure of the equitable reliefs available earlier have been modified to make them statutory rights and are also required to be pleaded specifically to be enforced. Further to the extent that these equitable reliefs have been codified into rights, they are no longer discretionary upon the courts or as the English law has it, \"Chancellor's foot\" but instead are enforceable rights subject to the conditions under the 1963 Act being satisfied. Nonetheless, in the event of situations not covered under the 1963 Act, the courts in India continue to exercise their inherent powers in terms of Section 151 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, which applies to all civil courts in India.\n\nThere is no such inherent powers with the criminal courts in India except with the High Courts in terms of Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. Further, such inherent powers are vested in the Supreme Court of India in terms of Article 142 of the Constitution of India which confers wide powers on the Supreme Court to pass orders \"as is necessary for doing complete justice in any cause of matter pending before it\".\n\nIn modern practice, perhaps the most important distinction between law and equity is the set of remedies each offers. The most common civil remedy a court of law can award is monetary damages. Equity, however, enters injunctions or decrees directing someone either to act or to forbear from acting. Often, this form of relief is in practical terms more valuable to a litigant; for example, a plaintiff whose neighbor will not return his only milk cow, which had wandered onto the neighbor's property, may want that particular cow back, not just its monetary value. However, in general, a litigant cannot obtain equitable relief unless there is \"no adequate remedy at law\"; that is, a court will not grant an injunction unless monetary damages are an insufficient remedy for the injury in question. Law courts can also enter certain types of immediately enforceable orders, called \"writs\" (such as a writ of habeas corpus), but they are less flexible and less easily obtained than an injunction.\n\nAnother distinction is the unavailability of a jury in equity: the judge is the trier of fact. In the American legal system, the right of jury trial in civil cases tried in federal court is guaranteed by the Seventh Amendment \"in Suits at common law\", cases that traditionally would have been handled by the law courts. The question of whether a case should be determined by a jury depends largely on the type of relief the plaintiff requests. If a plaintiff requests damages in the form of money or certain other forms of relief, such as the return of a specific item of property, the remedy is considered legal, and a jury is available as the fact-finder. On the other hand, if the plaintiff requests an injunction, declaratory judgment, specific performance, modification of contract, or some other non-monetary relief, the claim would usually be one in equity.\n\nThomas Jefferson explained in 1785 that there are three main limitations on the power of a court of equity: \"If the legislature means to enact an injustice, however palpable, the court of Chancery is not the body with whom a correcting power is lodged. That it shall not interpose in any case which does not come within a general description and admit of redress by a general and practicable rule.\" The US Supreme Court, however, has concluded that courts have wide discretion to fashion relief in cases of equity. The first major statement of this power came in \"Willard v. Tayloe\", 75 U.S. 557 (1869). The Court concluded that \"relief is not a matter of absolute right to either party; it is a matter resting in the discretion of the court, to be exercised upon a consideration of all the circumstances of each particular case.\" \"Willard v. Tayloe\" was for many years the leading case in contract law regarding intent and enforcement. as well as equity.\n\nIn the United States today, the federal courts and most state courts have merged law and equity in the courts of general jurisdiction, such as county courts. However, the substantive distinction between law and equity has retained its old vitality. This difference is not a mere technicality, because the successful handling of certain law cases is difficult or impossible unless a temporary restraining order (TRO) or preliminary injunction is issued at the outset, to restrain someone from fleeing the jurisdiction taking the only property available to satisfy a judgment, for instance. Furthermore, certain statutes like Employee Retirement Income Security Act specifically authorize \"only\" equitable relief, which forces US courts to analyze in lengthy detail whether the relief demanded in particular cases brought under those statutes would have been available in equity.\n\nEquity courts were widely distrusted in the northeastern US following the American Revolution. A serious movement for merger of law and equity began in the states in the mid-19th century, when David Dudley Field II convinced New York State to adopt what became known as the Field Code of 1848. The federal courts did not abandon the old law/equity separation until the promulgation of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure in 1938.\n\nToday three states still have separate courts for law and equity; the most notable is Delaware, whose Court of Chancery is where most cases involving Delaware corporations are decided. However, merger in some states is less than complete; some other states (such as Illinois and New Jersey) have separate divisions for legal and equitable matters in a single court. Virginia had separate law and equity dockets (in the same court) until 2006. Besides corporate law, which developed out of the law of trusts, areas traditionally handled by chancery courts included wills and probate, adoptions and guardianships, and marriage and divorce. Bankruptcy was also historically considered an equitable matter; although bankruptcy in the United States is today a purely federal matter, reserved entirely to the United States Bankruptcy Courts by the enactment of the United States Bankruptcy Code in 1978, bankruptcy courts are still officially considered \"courts of equity\" and exercise equitable powers under Section 105 of the Bankruptcy Code.\n\nAfter US courts merged law and equity, American law courts adopted many of the procedures of equity courts. The procedures in a court of equity were much more flexible than the courts at common law. In American practice, certain devices such as joinder, counterclaim, cross-claim and interpleader originated in the courts of equity. Also, the modern class action evolved out of the equitable doctrine of virtual representation, which enabled a court of equity to fully dispose of an estate even though it might contain contingent interests held by persons over which the court did not have direct jurisdiction.\n\nFor a history of equity in England, including the Statute of Uses 1535:\n\nFor a general treatise on Equity, including a historical analysis:\n\nFor a brief outline of the maxims, doctrines and remedies developed under equity:\n\n"}
{"id": "53855122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53855122", "title": "Faith Goldy", "text": "Faith Goldy\n\nFaith Julia Goldy (born June 8, 1989), also known as Faith Goldy-Bazos, is a Canadian political commentator. Goldy's views have been described as far-right and white nationalist. She wrote and reported for The Rebel Media, including live coverage of events surrounding the 2017 Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, Virginia. Her contract was terminated in 2017 after she appeared in an interview on \"The Daily Stormer\", a neo-Nazi website.\n\nGoldy was a candidate for mayor of Toronto in the election on October 22, 2018, finishing third with 3.4% of the vote.\n\nGoldy was born on June 8, 1989. She received her formal education at Havergal College, a K–12 private school, and studied at Huron College at the University of Western Ontario. She later graduated in politics and history from Trinity College at the University of Toronto, minoring in philosophy and physics. She also began a Master of Public Policy degree at the University of Toronto School of Public Policy and Governance. In 2012, she received the Gordon Cressy Student Leadership Award from the University of Toronto Alumni Association.\n\nGoldy is a member of the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church. She was a director on the board of the Metropolitan Andrey Sheptytsky Institute Foundation from October 7, 2015, until her resignation on May 30, 2017.\n\nGoldy has been employed by a number of press and broadcast media organizations as a commentator and reporter, including \"The Catholic Register\", the \"Toronto Sun\", \"TheBlaze\", Bell Media, ZoomerMedia, and the \"National Post\". She is a former reporter with the Sun News Network and was employed by The Rebel Media, a Canadian right-wing media website, where she presented political commentary in regular YouTube videos and a weekly show called \"On The Hunt with Faith Goldy\".\n\nIn March 2017, Goldy posted on Twitter a video of herself in the Palestinian city of Bethlehem, expressing shock that she could hear an Islamic call to prayer in the city, and suggesting that \"Bethlehem's Christian population has been ethnically cleansed\". In June 2017, she broadcast on Rebel Media \"White Genocide in Canada?\", analyzing the Canadian government's foreign immigration policies with regard to the Third World, and the effect of those policies on the demographic composition of Canadian society. She posited that the European population in the country was being replaced as a result. In response to the broadcast, several corporate entities withdrew their financial support from Rebel Media.\n\nGoldy broadcast a livestream in August 2017 covering the Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, protesting the removal of Confederate monuments. Goldy mocked counter-protesters and complained of apparent police bias against the alt-right demonstrators. Goldy's video also recorded the car attack which killed counter-protester Heather Heyer. Rebel Media co-founder Brian Lilley resigned after Goldy's broadcasts were published to the site. Goldy was fired by co-founder Ezra Levant after she appeared on \"The Krypto Report\", a podcast on the neo-Nazi website \"The Daily Stormer\". Levant explained that he had directed Goldy not to cover the events in Charlottesville and that her appearance on \"The Daily Stormer\" was \"just too far\". Goldy later stated she had made \"a poor decision\" in consenting to the \"Stormer\" interview.\n\nIn December 2017, Goldy appeared on the alt-right podcast \"Millennial Woes\" and recited a white supremacist slogan, the Fourteen Words: \"We must secure the existence of our people and a future for white children\". She continued: \"I don't see that as controversial ... We want to survive.\" As a result of reciting the slogan, crowdfunding site Patreon suspended her account in May 2018 and she was subsequently banned from PayPal that July. After losing her Patreon account, she began receiving contributions through an alternative crowdfunding system, Freestartr. This platform was itself shut out of PayPal the same month, leaving her unable to receive payments.\n\nAs of August 2018, Goldy's YouTube channel had over 60,000 subscribers.\n\nGoldy's views have been described as far-right or alt-right and white nationalist.\n\nGoldy believes in the white genocide conspiracy theory. She linked the topic with the removal of Confederate statues, claiming they were being replaced \"because [white] people are being replaced\". It has been reported to have significantly raised her profile outlining the \"terrible truths of white genocide\". Her belief in the subject has resulted in criticism, including a petition to rescind her Gordon Cressy Student Leadership Award. \"GQ\" labelled her as \"one of Canada's most prominent propagandists\" of the theory.\n\nAccording to \"Winnipeg Free Press\" columnist Dan Lett, Goldy seemed to be working to provide mainstream respectability to far right demonstrators in the course of her reporting of the Charlottesville Unite the Right rally, arguing that they suggested a wider \"rising white racial consciousness\" in America. Goldy referred to a manifesto by white supremacist Richard Spencer, which Lett described as including \"calls to organize states along ethnic and racial divides and celebrat[ing] the superiority of 'White America, as \"robust\" and \"well thought-out\".\n\nOn July 27, 2018, Goldy registered to run for Mayor in the 2018 Toronto election. Her campaign platform included repair and improvement of transportation infrastructure, affordable housing for millennials born in Toronto, the reinstatement of the Toronto Anti-Violence Intervention Strategy (TAVIS) and the Community Contacts Policy, monitoring Islamic organizations, and the forced removal of homeless illegal immigrants from the city. She came in third place, with just over 3% of votes cast.\n\nAfter posing for a photo with Goldy at a political event on September 22, Ontario Premier Doug Ford was repeatedly asked by the opposition New Democratic Party to denounce Goldy. On September 26 Ford tweeted: \"I have been clear. I condemn hate speech, anti-Semitism and racism in all forms—be it from Faith Goldy or anyone else.\"\n\nGoldy was not invited to the first Toronto mayoral debate held September 24 by Artsvote Toronto. Artsvote said that all candidates were sent and asked to fill out a qualifying form that laid out their platform for the arts and Goldy had not. Goldy briefly walked onto the stage during the debate and complained about the organizers before police escorted her away. Goldy was also not invited to the second debate.\n\n"}
{"id": "7453481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7453481", "title": "Financial intelligence", "text": "Financial intelligence\n\nFinancial intelligence (FININT) is the gathering of information about the financial affairs of entities of interest, to understand their nature and capabilities, and predict their intentions. Generally the term applies in the context of law enforcement and related activities.\n\nOne of the main purposes of financial intelligence is to identify financial transactions that may involve tax evasion, money laundering or some other criminal activity. FININT may also be involved in identifying financing of criminal and terrorist organisations.\n\nFinancial intelligence can be broken down into two main areas, collection and analysis. Collection is normally done by a government agency, known as a financial intelligence organisation or Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU). The agency will collect raw transactional information and Suspicious activity reports (SAR) usually provided by banks and other entities as part of regulatory requirements. Data may be shared with other countries through intergovernmental networks. \n\nAnalysis, may consist of scrutinizing a large volume of transactional data using data mining or data-matching techniques to identify persons potentially engaged in a particular activity. SARs can also be scrutinized and linked with other data to try and identify specific activity.\n\nFININT involves scrutinizing a large volume of transactional data, usually provided by banks and other entities as part of regulatory requirements. Alternatively, data mining or data-matching techniques may be employed to identify persons potentially engaged in a particular activity.\n\nMany industrialized countries have regulatory reporting requirements for its financial organisations. \n\nIt may be possible for the FININT organization to obtain access to raw data at a financial organization. From a legal standpoint, this type of collection can be quite complex. For example, the CIA obtained access to the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT) data streams through the Terrorist Finance Tracking Program, but this violated Belgian privacy law. \n\nReporting requirements may not affect Informal value transfer systems (IVTS) the use of which may simply be customary in a culture, and of amounts that would not require reporting if in a conventional financial institution. IVTS also can be used for criminal purposes of avoiding oversight.\n\nExamples of financial intelligence analysis could include:\n\nAccording to the Egmont Group of Financial Intelligence Units, financial intelligence organizations (FIUs) are national centres which collect information on suspicious or unusual financial activity from the financial industry and other entities or professions required to report transactions suspicious of being money laundering or terrorism financing. FIUs are normally not law enforcement agencies; their mission being to process and analyze the information received. If sufficient evidence of unlawful activity is found, the matter is passed to the public prosecution.\n\nGovernment organizations may simply receive and process raw financial reports, and forward them, as appropriate, to law enforcement or intelligence agencies, include the multinational Egmont Group of Financial Intelligence Units, and national organizations, including:\n\n\nThe United States has different organizations focused on domestic and international financial activity.\nThe United States has several laws requiring the reporting to the FinCEN. These include the Right to Financial Privacy Act (RFPA) of 1978, the Bank Secrecy Act of 1970 (and other names of revisions), and the Gramm–Leach–Bliley Act of 1999 (GLBA). Some reports also need to go to the Securities and Exchange Commission.\n\nFor example, the reports\nActions that can trigger an SAR being filed include:\n\nInternational financial activity comes primarily from the Department of the Treasury and the Central Intelligence Agency. See CIA access to the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT).\n\nAt the highest level, US domestic FININT, and also some international work, comes under the Under Secretary of the Treasury for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence, heading the Office of Terrorism and Financial Analysis, including:\n\nInformation developed by these units, when related to domestic security and especially when state and local law enforcement, is disseminated by the Office of Intelligence and Analysis (OIA) in the United States Department of Homeland Security, under the Under Secretary of Homeland Security for Intelligence and Analysis. This Office is not restricted to FININT, but handles collection, analysis and fusion of intelligence throughout the entire Department. It disseminates intelligence throughout the Department, to the other members of the United States Intelligence Community, and to affected first responders at the state and local level.\n\nDepending on the specific Federal violation, law enforcement investigation may be under agencies including the Federal Bureau of Investigation, United States Secret Service, or the Internal Revenue Service.\n\nFollowing the September 11, 2001 attacks an allegation was made in \"The Wall Street Journal\" that tanzanite stones were being used as an untraceable currency and source of income for terrorists. This has not since been firmly established. See .\n\nThe custom common in Africa, uncut diamonds tend to be the de facto standard currency of the illicit small arms trade. Diamonds may be easily counted with a uniform valuation per carat to people in places of the world where there are no automated teller machines. An entire briefcase filled with uncut diamonds without the serial numbers found on refined precious metals can be used to make large illicit value transfers. The practice coexists with human trafficking, narcotics, weapons dealing, terrorism, and the evasion of economic sanctions and embargoes.\n\nHowever, the Internal Revenue Service has since instituted new anti-money laundering regulations to control the gem trade.\n\nAnother intriguing possibility is that a terrorist might buy stocks which are likely to appreciate in the event of a terrorist attack, such as defense industry stocks, or sell short stocks which are likely to depreciate, such as airlines. This possibility led to many investigations of the financial markets subsequent to the September 11, 2001 attacks.\n\nThe Financial Intelligence Unit Network (FIU.NET) is a decentralized computer network that provides an information exchange between the financial intelligence units of the European Union. FIU.NET is a decentralized system with no central database where the information is collected. All the connected FIUs have their FIU.NET equipment within their own premises and manage their own information. Through FIU.NET the connected FIUs create bilateral or multilateral cases. Match (autonomous, anonymous, analysis) is a matching tool within FIU.NET. Match makes it possible for FIUs to match names in order to find relevant data that is possessed by other connected FIUs. As the data is anonymized, there is no breaching of privacy and data protection rules.\n\nFIU.NET is funded by the European Commission and participating FIUs. Currently, the connected EU Member State FIUs are: Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxemburg, Malta, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Sweden, Slovenia, Slovakia, Spain, and the United Kingdom.\n\nFIU.NET is governed by a Board of Partners (BoP) formed by connected FIUs that have volunteered for a seat. The Board of Partners is chaired by an independent Director.\n\nDaily operation of the system is managed by the FIU.NET Bureau, a project bureau of the Dutch Ministry of Security and Justice, which is housed in the Europol International Headquarters in The Hague.\n\n"}
{"id": "3127492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3127492", "title": "Geon (psychology)", "text": "Geon (psychology)\n\nGeons are the simple 2D or 3D forms such as cylinders, bricks, wedges, cones, circles and rectangles corresponding to the simple parts of an object in Biederman's recognition-by-components theory. The theory proposes that the visual input is matched against structural representations of objects in the brain. These structural representations consist of geons and their relations (e.g., an ice cream cone could be broken down into a sphere located above a cone). Only a modest number of geons (< 40) are assumed. When combined in different relations to each other (e.g., on-top-of, larger-than, end-to-end, end-to-middle) and coarse metric variation such as aspect ratio and 2D orientation, billions of possible 2- and 3-geon objects can be generated. Two classes of shape-based visual identification that are not done through geon representations, are those involved in: a) distinguishing between similar faces, and b) classifications that don’t have definite boundaries, such as that of bushes or a crumpled garment. Typically, such identifications are not viewpoint-invariant.\n\nThere are 4 essential properties of geons:\n\nViewpoint invariance: The viewpoint invariance of geons derives from their being distinguished by three nonaccidental properties (NAPs) of contours that do not change with orientation in depth:\n\n\nNAPs can be distinguished from metric properties (MPs), such as the degree of non-zero curvature of a contour or its length, which do vary with changes in orientation in depth.\n\nGeons can be determined from the contours that mark the edges at orientation and depth discontinuities of an image of an object, i.e., the contours that specify a good line drawing of the object’s shape or volume. Orientation discontinuities define those edges where there is a sharp change in the orientation of the normal to the surface of a volume, as occurs at the contour at the boundaries of the different sides of a brick. A depth discontinuity is where the observer’s line of sight jumps from the surface of an object to the background (i.e., is tangent to the surface), as occurs at the sides of a cylinder. The same contour might mark both an orientation and depth discontinuity, as with the back edge of a brick. Because the geons are based on these discontinuities, they are invariant to variations in the direction of lighting, shadows, and surface texture and markings.\n\nThe geons constitute a partition of the set of generalized cones, which are the volumes created when a cross section is swept along an axis. For example, a circle swept along a straight axis would define a cylinder (see Figure). A rectangle swept along a straight axis would define a \"brick\" (see Figure). Four dimensions with contrastive values (i.e., mutually exclusive values) define the current set of geons (see Figure):\n\nThese variations in the generating of geons create shapes that differ in NAPs.\n\nThere is now considerable support for the major assumptions of geon theory (See Recognition-by-components theory). One issue that generated some discussion was the finding that the geons were viewpoint invariant with little or no cost in the speed or accuracy of recognizing or matching a geon from an orientation in depth not previously experienced. Some studies reported modest costs in matching geons at new orientations in depth but these studies had several methodological shortcomings.\n\nThere is much research out about geons and how they are interpreted. An important study happening now is one that is looking at how the scrambling of geons impacts image recognition in pigeons. Kim Kirkpatrick-Steger, Edward A. Wasserman and Irving Biederman are conducting this research and have found that the individual geons along with their spatial composition are important in recognition. Furthermore, the findings in this research seem to indicate that non-accidental sensitivity can be found in all shape discriminating species.\n"}
{"id": "17729643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17729643", "title": "Haptic perception", "text": "Haptic perception\n\nHaptic perception ( \"palpable\", \"haptikόs\" \"suitable for touch\") means literally the ability \"to grasp something\". Perception in this case is achieved through the active exploration of surfaces and objects by a moving subject, as opposed to passive contact by a static subject during \"tactile perception\". The term \"Haptik\" was coined by the German Psychologist Max Dessoir in 1892, when suggesting a name for academic research into the sense of touch in the style of that in \"acoustics\" and \"optics\".\n\nGibson (1966) defined the haptic system as \"[t]he sensibility of the individual to the world adjacent to his body by use of his body\". Gibson and others further emphasized what Weber had realized in 1851: the close link between haptic perception and body movement, and that haptic perception is active exploration.\n\nThe concept of haptic perception is related to the concept of extended physiological proprioception, according to which when a tool such as a stick is used, perceptual experience is transparently transferred to the end of the tool.\n\nHaptic perception relies on the forces experienced during touch. This research allows the creation of \"virtual\", illusory haptic shapes with different perceived qualities, which has clear application in haptic technology.\n\nPeople can rapidly and accurately identify three-dimensional objects by touch. They do so through the use of exploratory procedures, such as moving the fingers over the outer surface of the object or holding the entire object in the hand.\n\nThe following exploratory procedures have been identified so far:\nThus gathered object or subject properties are size, weight, contour, surface and material characteristics, consistency and temperature.\n\nHaptic sensitivity can be impaired by a multitude of diseases and disorders, predominantly relating to skin injuries (incisions, burns, etc) and nerve lesions (through injury or impaired circulation). Additionally, loss of sensitivity (neuropathy) may be caused by metabolic, toxic and/or immunologic factors. Examples of medical conditions that can cause neuropathies are diabetes mellitus, chronic kidney disease, thyroid dysfunction (hyper- and hypothyroidism) as well as hepatitis, liver cirrhosis and alcohol dependency.\n\nLoss of the sense of touch is a catastrophic deficit that can impair walking and other skilled actions such as holding objects or using tools.\n\nImmersive environments can recreate the feeling of haptic interaction. Exoskeletal gloves such as the Exo-Skin Soft Haptic exoskeletal interface, developed at Drexel University, can be programmed to take a patient through a program of physical therapy exercises to retrain muscles and senses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36206349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36206349", "title": "Honest broker", "text": "Honest broker\n\nAn honest broker is an entity that keeps sets of private information but distributes parts of those sets to other entities who should not have access to the entire set. Honest brokers often work in clinical research with biological specimens; in that case, donors of specimens allow researchers to do research on those specimens, but typically want their specimen de-identified by having protected health information separated from it. The honest broker would keep both the specimen and associated protected health information, but only allow researchers to have access to the specimen without the protected health information.\n\nHonest brokers are typically appointed to a research project by an institutional review board. They provide data from clinical and research sources for research use only and in accordance with policies that prohibit re-identification.\n\nOrganizations conducting breast cancer research have identified access to biological specimens as a top priority, and therefore honest broker systems are key to research because they increase access to specimens.\n\nIn Diplomacy, an \"honest broker\" is an entity (individual or organisation) that is accepted by all sides in a negotiation as impartial. Neutrality does not equal an absence of interest; rather, the interest of the honest broker lies in a solution, without preference for either party involved in the conflict.\n\nGerman Chancellor Otto von Bismarck was the first to use the term (applied to himself) in connection with the 1878 Congress of Berlin.\n"}
{"id": "17185239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17185239", "title": "Joint attention", "text": "Joint attention\n\nJoint attention or shared attention is the shared focus of two individuals on an object. It is achieved when one individual alerts another to an object by means of eye-gazing, pointing or other verbal or non-verbal indications. An individual gazes at another individual, points to an object and then returns their gaze to the individual. Scaife and Bruner were the first researchers to present a cross-sectional description of children's ability to follow eye gaze in 1975. They found that most eight- to ten-month-old children followed a line of regard, and that all 11- to 14-month-old children did so. This early research showed it was possible for an adult to bring certain objects in the environment to an infant's attention using eye gaze.\n\nSubsequent research demonstrates that two important skills in joint attention are following eye gaze and identifying intention. The ability to share gaze with another individual is an important skill in establishing reference. The ability to identify intention is important in a child's ability to learn language and direct the attention of others. Joint attention is important for many aspects of language development including comprehension, production and word learning. Episodes of joint attention provide children with information about their environment, allowing individuals to establish reference from spoken language and learn words. Socio-emotional development and the ability to take part in normal relationships are also influenced by joint attention abilities. The ability to establish joint attention may be negatively affected by deafness, blindness, and developmental disorders such as autism.\n\nOther animals such as great apes, orangutans, chimpanzees, dogs, and horses also show some elements of joint attention.\n\nDefining levels of joint attention is important in determining if children are engaging in age-appropriate joint attention. There are three levels of joint attention: triadic, dyadic, and shared gaze.\n\nTriadic joint attention is the highest level of joint attention and involves two individuals looking at an object. Each individual must understand that the other individual is looking at the same object and realize that there is an element of shared attention. For an instance of social engagement to count as triadic joint attention it requires at least two individuals attending to an object or focusing their attention on each other. Additionally, the individual must display awareness that focus is shared between himself or herself and another individual. Triadic attention is marked by the individual looking back to the other individual after looking at the object.\n\nDyadic joint attention is a conversation-like behavior that individuals engage in. This is especially true for human adults and infants, who engage in this behavior starting at two months of age. Adults and infants take turns exchanging facial expressions, noises, and in the case of the adult, speech.\n\nShared gaze occurs when two individuals are simply looking at an object. Shared gaze is the lowest level of joint attention.\n\nIndividuals who engage in triadic joint attention must understand both gaze and intention to establish common reference. Gaze refers to a child's understanding of the link between mental activity and the physical act of seeing. Intention refers to the child's ability to understand the goal of another person's mental processes.\n\nFor an individual to engage in joint attention they must establish reference. Following the gaze or directive actions (such as pointing) of others is a common way of establishing reference. For an individual to understand that following gaze establishes reference the individual must display:\n\nGaze becomes more complex with age and practice. As gaze increases in complexity, individuals are better able to discriminate what others are referring to. Joint attention is also important for social learning. Gaze following reflects an expectation-based type of orienting in which an individual's attention is cued by another's head turn or eye turn. Individuals are motivated to follow another's gaze and engage in joint attention because gaze is a cue for which rewarding events occur.\n\nThe ability to identify intention is critical to joint attention. When individuals understand that others have goals, intentions, and attentional states, they are able to enter into and direct another's attention. Joint attention promotes and maintains dyadic exchanges and learning about the nature of social partners. The ability to engage in joint attention is crucial for language development.\n\nIndividuals who are intentional in their actions display regularity in their behavior. Individuals locate objects with their eyes, move towards the object, and then use hands to make contact with and manipulate the object. Change in gaze direction is one of several behavioral cues that individuals use in combination with changes in facial and vocal displays and body posture to mark the intention to act on an object. Individuals who seek or follow a joint focus of attention display knowledge that what is in their awareness is also in another's awareness. They believe that they are experiencing the same world as others.\n\nJoint attention plays an important role in the development of theory of mind. Theory of mind and joint attention are important precursors to a fully developed grasp of another individual's mental activity.\n\nThe ability of children to extract information from their environment rests on understandings of attentional behaviors such as pointing. Episodes of joint attention provide children with a great deal of information about objects by establishing reference and intention. Joint attention occurs within particular environments. The items and events in that environment provide a context that enables the child to associate meaning with a particular utterance. Joint attention makes relevant aspects of the context salient, helping children comprehend what is taking place.\n\nAn infant's social environment relates to his or her later language development. Children's first words are closely linked to their early language experience. For children with typically developing language skills, there is a close match between maternal speech and their environment: up to 78% of maternal speech is matched to the object the child is focusing on. In children with delayed language development, only 50% of maternal speech is matched to the object the infant is focusing on. Infants are more likely to engage in joint attention when the parent talks about an object that the child is attending to as opposed to an object outside of the infant's attention. This increased level of joint attention aids in encouraging normal language development, including word comprehension and production. When joint attention is present, it plays an important role in word learning, a crucial aspect of language development.\n\nJoint attention and the ability to attend to an aspect of one's environment are fundamental to normal relationships that rely on the sharing of experience and knowledge. Infants are highly motivated to share experience. An infant's motivation to engage in joint attention is strong enough that infants voluntarily turn away from interesting sights to engage in joint attention with others.\n\nAs described in attachment theory, infants need to develop a relationship with a primary caregiver to achieve normal social and emotional development. A key part of the ability to develop this relationship may be joint attention. In addition to language development, joint attention serves the function of preparing infants for more complex social structures involved in adult conversation. Children's skills in initiating and responding to joint attention predict their social competence at 30 months of age. Anticipatory smiling (a low level form of joint attention involving smiling at an object then turning the smile to one's communicative partner) at 9 months positively predicts parent-rated social competence scores at 30 months in infants. Early joint attention abilities account for differences in social and emotional abilities in later life.\n\nAt the age of 2 months, children engage in dyadic joint attention and conversation-like exchanges with adults during which each is the focus of the other's attention and they take turns exchanging looks, noises and mouth movements. At age 3 months, children display joint attention skills by calling to a caregiver when they are not perceivable. When caregiver does not respond in a similar manner, child exhibits a series of responses that were first studied in early 1970s by Edward Tronick in collaboration with pediatrician T. Berry Brazelton at the time when the latter was creating the Neonatal Behavioral Assessment Scale. At age 6 months, infants display joint attentional skills by:\n\nAt age 8 months, infants demonstrate joint attention through proto-declarative pointing, particularly in girls. At 9 months of age, infants begin to display triadic joint attention. Infants also will display joint attention activities, such as communicative gestures, social referencing, and using the behavior of others to guide response to novel things.\n\nAt one year of age, joint attention is displayed through a child's understanding of pointing as an intentional act. One-year-olds also establish joint attention for objects within their visual field before objects beyond their current visual field. At this age, infants are not yet able to represent their entire environment, only what they can see. At age 15 months, children recognize the minds of others. At this age, children also recognize the importance of eyes for seeing and that physical objects can block sight. At age 18 months, infants are capable of following an individual's gaze to outside their visual field and establishing (representative) joint attention. 18-month-olds also grasp the intentional, referential nature of looking, the mentalistic experience of seeing and the role of eyes and are skilled at following both gaze and pointing with precision. At two years of age, children display joint attention by extending attention beyond the present and understanding that the targets of other's attention extends to the past as well. Two-year-olds are also capable of representational thought or increased memory.\n\nSeveral studies have shown that problems with joint attention are associated with developmental processes. Difficulties in establishing joint attention may partially account for differences in social abilities of children with developmental disorders (i.e. Autism spectrum disorders). A core deficit noted in autism is eye gaze. Autistic children have difficulty alternating their attention towards a partner and third object. This difficulty is attributed to their deficiencies in following gaze, resulting in difficulty initiating and maintaining joint attention. Deaf infants are able to engage in joint attention similar to hearing infants; however, the time spent engaged in joint attention is often reduced in deaf infants born to hearing parents. Hearing parents of deaf infants often are less likely to respond and expand on their deaf infants' initiative and communicative acts. Deaf infants of deaf parents do not show reduced time spent in joint attention. Auditory input is not critical to joint attention but similar modes of communication and understanding are vital. Furthermore, mothers who are unable to successfully establish regular joint attention with their child rate that infant lower on scales of social competence. Judgement of low social competence can be made as early as 18 months of age. In blind infants, joint attention is established by means of auditory input or feeling another person's hand on an object and may be delayed compared to sighted infants.\n\nTriadic joint attention is the highest level of joint attention and involves two individuals looking at an object. Each individual must understand that the other individual is looking at the same object and realize that there is an element of shared attention. Triadic attention is marked by the individual looking back to the other individual after looking at the object. Dyadic joint attention involves mutual gaze between the parent and infant. Mutual gaze is marked by both the parent and infant looking at each other's face. If two individuals are simply looking at an object, it is referred to as shared gaze.\n\nInfant and parent chimpanzees show dyadic joint attention in an affectionate manner by looking at each other's eyes Non-human animals such as Japanese monkeys, baboons, and other Old World monkeys seldom engage in dyadic joint attention. For these animals, the eye contact involved in dyadic joint attention is deemed threatening.\n\nGaze following, or shared gaze, can be found in a number of primates. Domesticated animals such as dogs and horses also demonstrate shared gaze. This type of joint attention is important for animals because gaze shifts serve as indicators alerting the animal to the location of predators, mates, or food.\n\nChimpanzees are capable of actively locating objects that are the focus of another individual's attention by tracking the gaze of others. They are not limited to following eye gaze to the first interesting object in their view. They use a number of different cues to engage in shared focus, including head movement and eye gaze. Infant chimpanzees start to follow tap, point, and head turn cues of an experimenter by nine months of age. By 13 months of age, they show following responses to glance cues without a head turn. There is no evidence to support that infant chimpanzees are able to use eye gaze alone as a cue for following responses. By 20 months of age, infant chimpanzees are able to follow an experimenter's cues to a target behind the chimpanzee but infant chimpanzees do not look back to the experimenter after looking at the target. Moving targets are more salient than stationary targets for infant chimpanzees. Chimpanzee infants are sensitive to faces which are gazing at them, but chimpanzees less than three to four years old only look within their visual field when using the experimenter's head turn as their cue.\n\n"}
{"id": "2403085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2403085", "title": "Lanczos tensor", "text": "Lanczos tensor\n\nThe Lanczos tensor or Lanczos potential is a rank 3 tensor in general relativity that generates the Weyl tensor. It was first introduced by Cornelius Lanczos in 1949. The theoretical importance of the Lanczos tensor is that it serves as the gauge field for the gravitational field in the same way that, by analogy, the electromagnetic four-potential generates the electromagnetic field.\n\nThe Lanczos tensor can be defined in a few different ways. The most common modern definition is through the Weyl–Lanczos equations, which demonstrate the generation of the Weyl tensor from the Lanczos tensor. These equations, presented below, were given by Takeno in 1964. The way that Lanczos introduced the tensor originally was as a Lagrange multiplier on constraint terms studied in the variational approach to general relativity. Under any definition, the Lanczos tensor \"H\" exhibits the following symmetries:\n\nThe Lanczos tensor always exists in four dimensions but does not generalize to higher dimensions. This highlights the specialness of four dimensions. Note further that the full Riemann tensor cannot in general be derived from derivatives of the Lanczos potential alone. The Einstein field equations must provide the Ricci tensor to complete the components of the Ricci decomposition.\n\nThe Weyl–Lanczos equations express the Weyl tensor entirely as derivatives of the Lanczos tensor:\n\nwhere formula_4 is the Weyl tensor, the semicolon denotes the covariant derivative, and the subscripted parentheses indicate symmetrization. Although the above equations can be used to define the Lanczos tensor, they also show that it is not unique but rather has gauge freedom under an affine group. If formula_5 is an arbitrary vector field, then the Weyl–Lanczos equations are invariant under the gauge transformation\n\nwhere the subscripted brackets indicate antisymmetrization. An often convenient choice is the Lanczos algebraic gauge, formula_7 which sets formula_8 The gauge can be further restricted through the Lanczos differential gauge formula_9. These gauge choices reduce the Weyl–Lanczos equations to the simpler form\n\nThe Lanczos potential tensor satisfies a wave equation\n\nwhere formula_12 is the d'Alembert operator and\nis known as the Cotton tensor. Since the Cotton tensor depends only on covariant derivatives of the Ricci tensor, it can perhaps be interpreted as a kind of matter current. The additional self-coupling terms have no direct electromagnetic equivalent. These self-coupling terms, however, do not affect the vacuum solutions, where the Ricci tensor vanishes and the curvature is described entirely by the Weyl tensor. Thus in vacuum, the Einstein field equations are equivalent to the homogeneous wave equation formula_14 in perfect analogy to the vacuum wave equation formula_15 of the electromagnetic four-potential. This shows a formal similarity between gravitational waves and electromagnetic waves, with the Lanczos tensor well-suited for studying gravitational waves.\n\nIn the weak field approximation where formula_16, a convenient form for the Lanczos tensor in the Lanczos gauge is\n\nThe most basic nontrivial case for expressing the Lanczos tensor is, of course, for the Schwarzschild metric. The simplest, explicit component representation in natural units for the Lanczos tensor in this case is\nwith all other components vanishing up to symmetries. This form, however, is not in the Lanczos gauge. The nonvanishing terms of the Lanczos tensor in the Lanczos gauge are\n\nIt is further possible to show, even in this simple case, that the Lanczos tensor cannot in general be reduced to a linear combination of the spin coefficients of the Newman–Penrose formalism, which attests to the Lanczos tensor's fundamental nature. Similar calculations have been used to construct arbitrary Petrov type D solutions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38052370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38052370", "title": "Lateral violence", "text": "Lateral violence\n\nLateral violence is displaced violence directed against one's peers rather than adversaries. This construct is one way of explaining minority-on-minority violence in developed nations. Those experiencing and those committing lateral violence more likely to be involved in crime in the United States, the United Kingdom, and elsewhere. In Australia and Canada, lateral violence is widely seen as an intergenerational learned pattern and major social problem in indigenous communities. In Australia surveys have reported that up to 95% of Aboriginal youth had witnessed lateral violence in the home, and that 95% of the bullying experienced by Aboriginals was perpetrated by other Aboriginals.\n\nNear-synonyms include horizontal violence, intra-racial conflict, and internalized colonialism\n\nAn example of inter-generational trauma would be the Corey and Cody Manyshots case involving two Aboriginal youth kidnapping and sexually assaulting a teen. The father of the teens was involved in animal cruelty cases involving a Bichon Frise and elastic bands. Furthermore, the father threatened to attack reporters at his sons' trials. Corey Manyshots was on bail for defacing the Dashmesh Cultural Centre, a Sikh temple in Calgary. This interpretation through an intergenerational trauma perspective would understand that both Corey and Cody Manyshots were the subject of collective trauma from the colonial injustices passed down from generation to generation and have less of a responsibility for criminal acts and reprehensible behaviours. This interpretation is considered flawed by some and perpetuates violence among Aboriginals. The Government of Canada commissioned a study in 2008 by the Minister of Health, it reported that although there were root causes such as the residential school system and loss of culture in Aboriginals which could lead to increases in propensities towards domestic abuse and violence, the aggravation factor in an overwhelming number of the cases involved drugs or alcohol.\n\nOutside the racial context, the term is also used in explanation of workplace bullying, though in that case the circumstances are much different. Some consider this an inappropriate definition. Sexism in medicine has been identified as one environment in which lateral violence exists in the workplace and experienced by nurses who are men.\n"}
{"id": "84089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=84089", "title": "Mandala", "text": "Mandala\n\nA mandala (emphasis on first syllable; Sanskrit मण्डल, maṇḍala – literally \"circle\") is a spiritual and ritual symbol in Hinduism and Buddhism, representing the universe. In common use, \"mandala\" has become a generic term for any diagram, chart or geometric pattern that represents the cosmos metaphysically or symbolically; a microcosm of the universe.\n\nThe basic form of most mandalas is a square with four gates containing a circle with a center point. Each gate is in the general shape of a T. Mandalas often have radial balance.\n\nThe term appears in the Rigveda as the name of the sections of the work, and Vedic rituals use mandalas such as the Navagraha mandala to this day. Mandalas are also used in Buddhism.\n\nIn various spiritual traditions, mandalas may be employed for focusing attention of practitioners and adepts, as a spiritual guidance tool, for establishing a sacred space and as an aid to meditation and trance induction.\n\nA \"yantra\" is similar to a mandala, usually smaller and using a more limited colour palette. It may be a two- or three-dimensional geometric composition used in \"sadhanas\", puja or meditative rituals, and may incorporate a mantra into its design. It is considered to represent the abode of the deity. Each \"yantra\" is unique and calls the deity into the presence of the practitioner through the elaborate symbolic geometric designs. According to one scholar, \"Yantras function as revelatory symbols of cosmic truths and as instructional charts of the spiritual aspect of human experience\"\n\nMany situate \"yantras\" as central focus points for Hindu tantric practice. \"Yantras\" are not representations, but are lived, experiential, nondual realities. As Khanna describes:\n\nDespite its cosmic meanings a \"yantra\" is a reality lived. Because of the relationship that exists in the Tantras between the outer world (the macrocosm) and man's inner world (the microcosm), every symbol in a \"yantra\" is ambivalently resonant in inner–outer synthesis, and is associated with the subtle body and aspects of human consciousness.\n\nThe \"Rajamandala\" (or \"Raja-mandala\"; circle of states) was formulated by the Indian author Kautilya in his work on politics, the \"Arthashastra\" (written between 4th century BCE and 2nd century BCE). It describes circles of friendly and enemy states surrounding the king's state.\n\nIn historical, social and political sense, the term \"mandala\" is also employed to denote traditional Southeast Asian political formations (such as federation of kingdoms or vassalized states). It was adopted by 20th century Western historians from ancient Indian political discourse as a means of avoiding the term 'state' in the conventional sense. Not only did Southeast Asian polities not conform to Chinese and European views of a territorially defined state with fixed borders and a bureaucratic apparatus, but they diverged considerably in the opposite direction: the polity was defined by its centre rather than its boundaries, and it could be composed of numerous other tributary polities without undergoing administrative integration. Empires such as Bagan, Ayutthaya, Champa, Khmer, Srivijaya and Majapahit are known as \"mandala\" in this sense.\n\nIn Vajrayana Buddhism, mandalas have been developed also into sandpainting. They are also a key part of Anuttarayoga Tantra meditation practices.\n\nThe mandala can be shown to represent in visual form the core essence of the Vajrayana teachings. The mind is \"a microcosm representing various divine powers at work in the universe.\" The mandala represents the nature of the Pure Land, Enlightened mind.\n\nAn example of this type of mandala is \"Vajrabhairava mandala\" a silk tapestry woven with gilded paper depicting lavish elements like crowns and jewelry, which gives a three-dimensional effect to the piece.\n\nA mandala can also represent the entire universe, which is traditionally depicted with Mount Meru as the axis mundi in the center, surrounded by the continents. One example is the \"Cosmological Mandala with Mount Meru\", a silk tapestry from the Yuan dynasty that serves as a diagram of the Tibetan cosmology, which was given to China from Nepal and Tibet.\n\nIn the mandala, the outer circle of fire usually symbolises wisdom. The ring of eight charnel grounds represents the Buddhist exhortation to be always mindful of death, and the impermanence with which \"samsara\" is suffused: \"such locations were utilized in order to confront and to realize the transient nature of life\". Described elsewhere: \"within a flaming rainbow nimbus and encircled by a black ring of dorjes, the major outer ring depicts the eight great charnel grounds, to emphasize the dangerous nature of human life\". Inside these rings lie the walls of the mandala palace itself, specifically a place populated by deities and Buddhas.\n\nOne well-known type of mandala is the mandala of the \"Five Buddhas\", archetypal Buddha forms embodying various aspects of enlightenment. Such Buddhas are depicted depending on the school of Buddhism, and even the specific purpose of the mandala. A common mandala of this type is that of the Five Wisdom Buddhas (a.k.a. Five \"Jinas\"), the Buddhas Vairocana, Aksobhya, Ratnasambhava, Amitabha and Amoghasiddhi. When paired with another mandala depicting the Five Wisdom Kings, this forms the Mandala of the Two Realms.\n\nMandalas are commonly used by tantric Buddhists as an aid to meditation.\n\nThe mandala is \"a support for the meditating person\", something to be repeatedly contemplated to the point of saturation, such that the image of the mandala becomes fully internalised in even the minutest detail and can then be summoned and contemplated at will as a clear and vivid visualized image. With every mandala comes what Tucci calls \"its associated liturgy ... contained in texts known as tantras\", instructing practitioners on how the mandala should be drawn, built and visualised, and indicating the mantras to be recited during its ritual use.\n\nBy visualizing \"pure lands\", one learns to understand experience \"itself\" as pure, and as the abode of enlightenment. The protection that we need, in this view, is from our own minds, as much as from external sources of confusion. In many tantric mandalas, this aspect of separation and protection from the outer samsaric world is depicted by \"the four outer circles: the purifying fire of wisdom, the vajra circle, the circle with the eight tombs, the lotus circle\". The ring of \"vajras\" forms a connected fence-like arrangement running around the perimeter of the outer mandala circle.\n\nAs a meditation on impermanence (a central teaching of Buddhism), after days or weeks of creating the intricate pattern of a sand mandala, the sand is brushed together into a pile and spilled into a body of running water to spread the blessings of the mandala.\n\nKværne in his extended discussion of sahaja, discusses the relationship of sadhana interiority and exteriority in relation to mandala thus:\nA \"mandala offering\" in Tibetan Buddhism is a symbolic offering of the entire universe. Every intricate detail of these mandalas is fixed in the tradition and has specific symbolic meanings, often on more than one level.\n\nWhereas the above mandala represents the pure surroundings of a Buddha, this mandala represents the universe. This type of mandala is used for the mandala-offerings, during which one symbolically offers the universe to the Buddhas or to one's teacher. Within Vajrayana practice, 1,000,000 of these mandala offerings (to create merit) can be part of the preliminary practices before a student even begins actual tantric practices. This mandala is generally structured according to the model of the universe as taught in a Buddhist classic text the \"Abhidharma-kośa\", with Mount Meru at the centre, surrounded by the continents, oceans and mountains, etc.\n\nOne Japanese branch of Mahayana Buddhism—Shingon Buddhism—makes frequent use of mandalas in its rituals as well, though the actual mandalas differ. When Shingon's founder, Kukai, returned from his training in China, he brought back two mandalas that became central to Shingon ritual: the Mandala of the Womb Realm and the Mandala of the Diamond Realm.\n\nThese two mandalas are engaged in the \"abhiseka\" initiation rituals for new Shingon students, more commonly known as the \"Kechien Kanjō\" (結縁灌頂). A common feature of this ritual is to blindfold the new initiate and to have them throw a flower upon either mandala. Where the flower lands assists in the determination of which tutelary deity the initiate should follow.\n\nSand mandalas, as found in Tibetan Buddhism, are not practiced in Shingon Buddhism.\n\nThe mandala in Nichiren Buddhism is called a \"moji-mandala\" (文字曼陀羅) and is a paper hanging scroll or wooden tablet whose inscription consists of Chinese characters and medieval-Sanskrit script representing elements of the Buddha's enlightenment, protective Buddhist deities, and certain Buddhist concepts. Called the \"Gohonzon\", it was originally inscribed by Nichiren, the founder of this branch of Japanese Buddhism, during the late 13th Century. The \"Gohonzon\" is the primary object of veneration in some Nichiren schools and the only one in others, which consider it to be the supreme object of worship as the embodiment of the supreme Dharma and Nichiren's inner enlightenment. The seven characters Namu Myōhō Renge Kyō, considered to be the name of the supreme Dharma, as well as the invocation that believers chant, are written down the center of all Nichiren-sect \"Gohonzons\", whose appearance may otherwise vary depending on the particular school and other factors.\n\nMandalas have sometimes been used in Pure Land Buddhism to graphically represent Pure Lands, based on descriptions found in the \"Larger Sutra\" and the \"Contemplation Sutra\". The most famous mandala in Japan is the Taima mandala, dated to about 763 CE. The Taima mandala is based on the \"Contemplation Sutra\", but other similar mandalas have been made subsequently. Unlike mandalas used in Vajrayana Buddhism, it is not used as an object of meditation or for esoteric ritual. Instead, it provides a visual representation of the Pure Land texts, and is used as a teaching aid.\n\nAlso in Jodo Shinshu Buddhism, Shinran and his descendant, Rennyo, sought a way to create easily accessible objects of reverence for the lower-classes of Japanese society. Shinran designed a mandala using a hanging scroll, and the words of the \"nembutsu\" (南無阿彌陀佛) written vertically. This style of mandala is still used by some Jodo Shinshu Buddhists in home altars, or \"butsudan\".\n\nOne of several parallels between Eastern and Mesoamerican cultures, the Mayan civilization tended to present calendars in a mandala form. It is similar in form and function to the \"Kalachakra\" (Wheel of Time) sand paintings of Tibetan Buddhists. The \"tzolk'in\" wheel has 260 segments, surprising because the Mayans recognized that the calendar year is 365 days long. The inclusion of the specific number 260 could however relate to the 26,000 year cycle of the precession of the equinoxes. If so, this would indicate a remarkable awareness of these great cycles of time by this culture. Ultimately, the symbol was probably used for ritual purposes, and to measure the interval of a number of 9-month intervals like pregnancy, the cultivation time of some crops, and rituals that were performed at a 260-day spacing each year, for example, spring and fall.\n\nThis Mayan symbology has even made its way into New Age symbolism as the Dreamspell calendar, developed by José Argüelles. Sometimes described as an authentic Mayan mandala, it is \"inspired by\" elements of the \"Tzolk'in\" wheel of time.\n\nThe Sun Stone of the Aztec civilization was once believed to be their equivalent of a Tzolk'in calendar, but is now thought to be a ceremonial representation of the entire universe as seen by the Aztec religious class.\n\nThe earliest interpretations of the stone relate to its use as a calendar. In 1792, two years after the stone's unearthing, Mexican anthropologist Antonio de León y Gama wrote a treatise on the Aztec calendar using the stone as its basis. Some of the circles of glyphs are the glyphs for the days of the month. The four symbols included in the Ollin glyph represent the four past suns that the Mexica believed the earth had passed through.\n\nAnother aspect of the stone is its religious significance. One theory is that the face at the center of the stone represents Tonatiuh, the Aztec deity of the sun. It is for this reason that the stone became known as the \"Sun Stone.\" Richard Townsend proposed a different theory, claiming that the figure at the center of the stone represents Tlaltecuhtli, the Mexica earth deity who features in Mexica creation myths. Modern archaeologists, such as those at the National Anthropology Museum in Mexico City, believe it is more likely to have been used primarily as a ceremonial basin or ritual altar for gladiatorial sacrifices than as an astrological or astronomical reference.\n\nYet another characteristic of the stone is its possible geographic significance. The four points may relate to the four corners of the earth or the cardinal points. The inner circles may express space as well as time.\n\nLastly, there is the political aspect of the stone. It may have been intended to show Tenochtitlan as the center of the world and therefore, as the center of authority. Townsend argues for this idea, claiming that the small glyphs of additional dates amongst the four previous suns—1 Flint (\"Tecpatl\"), 1 Rain (\"Atl\"), and 7 Monkey (\"Ozomahtli\")—represent matters of historical importance to the Mexica state. He posits, for example, that 7 Monkey represents the significant day for the cult of a community within \"Tenochtitlan\". His claim is further supported by the presence of Mexica ruler Moctezuma II's name on the work. These elements ground the Stone's iconography in history rather than myth and the legitimacy of the state in the cosmos.\n\nForms which are evocative of mandalas are prevalent in Christianity: the celtic cross; the rosary; the halo; the aureole; oculi; the Crown of Thorns; rose windows; the Rosy Cross; and the dromenon on the floor of Chartres Cathedral. The dromenon represents a journey from the outer world to the inner sacred centre where the Divine is found.\n\nThe Cosmati pavements, including that at Westminster Abbey, are geometric mandala-like mosaic designs from thirteenth century Italy. The Great Pavement at Westminster Abbey is believed to embody divine and cosmic geometries as the seat of enthronement of the monarchs of England.\n\nSimilarly, many of the Illuminations of Hildegard von Bingen can be used as mandalas, as well as many of the images of esoteric Christianity, as in Christian Hermeticism, Christian Alchemy, and Rosicrucianism.\n\nAlchemist, Mathematician and Astrologer John Dee developed a geometric symbol which he called the \"Sigillum Dei\" 'Seal of God' manifesting a universal geometric order which incorporated the names of the archangels, derived from earlier forms of the \"clavicula salomonis\" or key of Solomon.\n\nThe Layer Monument, an early 17th-century marble mural funerary monument at the Church of Saint John the Baptist, Maddermarket, Norwich, is a rare example of Christian iconography absorbing alchemical symbolism to create a mandala in Western funerary art.\n\nIn Persian Islamic theosophy, each of us is a part of God. We have been separated from our source like the rays of the sun and, we need to always keep in our mind that we have a divine light in us, which is the source of love. This light always shows us the right path to grow and find our way back to our source.\n\nTherefore in Persian Shamseh motif which symbolizes the sun, there is a center which is the symbol of god or the source of energy. This small circle is surrounded by many other circles or polygons with the same center but in different sizes. These circles are the light rays of the sun which symbolize every god’s creature. Every creature tends to reach God, so the purpose of life is to reach back the source of energy which is mentioned as pure love in some references. Some of us are closer to our origin, while some of us have a long journey to reach it. As in Shamseh, some circles are smaller, therefore, closer to the center.\n\nShamseh motif was wildly applied during Safavid time in Iran. Safavid was one of the most important ruling dynasties of Iran in art, architecture, astrology, philosophy, and theosophy. An extraordinary example of Shamseh motif would be the tiling of the ceiling of Sheik Lotfollah mosque in Isfahan. Persian \"Shamseh\" motif painted on a copper plate. The art of hand painting and enameling is called \"Meenakari\" in Farsi.]]\n\nAccording to art therapist and mental health counselor Susanne F. Fincher, we owe the re-introduction of mandalas into modern Western thought to Carl Jung, the Swiss analytical psychologist. In his pioneering exploration of the unconscious through his own art making, Jung observed the motif of the circle spontaneously appearing. The circle drawings reflected his inner state at that moment. Familiarity with the philosophical writings of India prompted Jung to adopt the word \"mandala\" to describe these circle drawings he and his patients made. In his autobiography, Jung wrote:\nJung recognized that the urge to make mandalas emerges during moments of intense personal growth. Their appearance indicates a profound re-balancing process is underway in the psyche. The result of the process is a more complex and better integrated personality.\nCreating mandalas helps stabilize, integrate, and re-order inner life.\n\nAccording to the psychologist David Fontana, its symbolic nature can help one \"to access progressively deeper levels of the unconscious, ultimately assisting the meditator to experience a mystical sense of oneness with the ultimate unity from which the cosmos in all its manifold forms arises.\"\nOne of the most intense archaeological discoveries in recent years that could redefine the history of eastern thought and tradition of mandala is the discovery of five giant mandalas in the valley of Manipur made with Google Earth imagery. Located in the paddy field in the west of Imphal, the capital of Manipur, the Maklang geoglyph is perhaps the world’s largest mandala built entirely of mud. The site wasn’t discovered until 2013 as its whole structure could only be visible via Google Earth satellite imagery. The whole paddy field, locally known as Bihu Loukon, is now protected and announced as historical monument and site by the government of Manipur in the same year. The site is situated 12 km aerial distance from Kangla with the GPS coordinates of 24° 48' N and 93° 49' E. It covers a total area of around 224,161.45 square meters. This square mandala has four similar protruding rectangular ‘gates’ in the cardinal directions guarded each by similar but smaller rectangular ‘gates’ on the left and right. Within the square there is an eight petalled flower or rayed-star, recently called as Maklang ‘Star fort’ by the locals, in the centre covering a total area of around 50,836.66 square meters. The discovery of other five giant mandalas in the valley of Manipur is also made with Google Earth. The five giant mandalas, viz., Sekmai mandala, Heikakmapal mandala, Phurju twin mandalas and Sangolmang mandala are located on the western bank of the Iril River.\n\nBuddhist architecture often applied mandala as the blueprint or plan to design Buddhist structures, including temple complex and stupas. A notable example of mandala in architecture is the 9th century Borobudur in Central Java, Indonesia. It is built as a large stupa surrounded by smaller ones arranged on terraces formed as a stepped pyramid, and when viewed from above, takes the form of a giant tantric Buddhist mandala, simultaneously representing the Buddhist cosmology and the nature of mind. Other temples from the same period also has mandala plan, including Sewu, Plaosan and Prambanan. The similar mandala plan design are also observable in Cambodia, Thailand and Myanmar.\n\nCircular diagrams are often used in phylogenetics, especially for the graphical representation of phylogenetic relationships. Evolutionary trees often encompass numerous species that are conveniently shown on a circular tree, with images of the species shown on the periphery of a tree. Such diagrams have been called phylogenetic mandalas.\n\nMandalas can be found in early Buddhist art from the 14th and 15th centuries.\n\nFashion designer Mandali Mendrilla designed an interactive art installation called Mandala of Desires (Blue Lotus Wish Tree) made in peace silk and eco friendly textile ink, displayed at the China Art Museum in Shanghai in November 2015. The pattern of the dress was based on the Goloka Yantra mandala, shaped as a lotus with eight petals. Visitors were invited to place a wish on the sculpture dress, which will be taken to India and offered to a genuine living Wish Tree.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56302591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56302591", "title": "Nodal decomposition", "text": "Nodal decomposition\n\n If exists, the nodal decomposition is unique up to an isomorphism in the following sense: for any two nodal decompositions formula_3 and formula_8 there exist isomorphisms formula_9 and formula_10 such that \nThis property justifies some special notations for the elements of the nodal decomposition: \n– here formula_15 and formula_16 are called the \"nodal coimage of formula_2\", formula_18 and formula_19 the \"nodal image of formula_2\", and formula_21 the \"nodal reduced part of formula_2\".\n\nIn these notations the nodal decomposition takes the form\n\nIn a pre-abelian category formula_24 each morphism formula_2 has a standard decomposition \ncalled the \"basic decomposition\" (here formula_27, formula_28, and formula_29 are respectively the image, the coimage and the reduced part of the morphism formula_2).\n\nA category formula_24 is called a \"category with nodal decomposition\" if each morphism formula_2 has a nodal decomposition in formula_24. This property plays an important role in constructing envelopes and refinements in formula_24. \n\nIn an abelian category formula_24 the basic decomposition\nis always nodal. As a corollary, \"all abelian categories have nodal decomposition\". \n\n\"If a pre-abelian category formula_24 is linearly complete, well-powered in strong monomorphisms and co-well-powered in strong epimorphisms, then formula_24 has nodal decomposition.\"\n\nMore generally, \"suppose a category formula_24 is linearly complete, well-powered in strong monomorphisms, co-well-powered in strong epimorphisms, and in addition strong epimorphisms discern monomorphisms in formula_24, and, dually, strong monomorphisms discern epimorphisms in formula_24, then formula_24 has nodal decomposition.\"\n\nThe category Ste of stereotype spaces (being non-abelian) has nodal decomposition, as well as the (non-additive) category SteAlg of stereotype algebras .\n\n"}
{"id": "34003244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34003244", "title": "Olog", "text": "Olog\n\nThe theory of ologs is an attempt to provide a rigorous mathematical framework for knowledge representation, construction of scientific models and data storage using category theory, linguistic and graphical tools. Ologs were introduced in 2010 by David Spivak, a research scientist in the Department of Mathematics, MIT.\n\nThe term \"olog\" is short for \"ontology log\". \"Ontology\" derives from \"onto-\", from the Greek \"ὤν, ὄντος\" \"being; that which is\", present participle of the verb \"εἰμί\" \"be\", and -λογία, -logia: \"science\", \"study\", \"theory\".\n\nAt the basic level an olog formula_1 is a category whose objects are represented as boxes containing sentences and whose morphisms are represented as directed labeled arrows between boxes. The structures of the sentences for both the objects and the morphisms of formula_1 need to be compatible with the mathematical definition of formula_1. This compatibility cannot be checked mathematically, because it lies in the correspondence between mathematical ideas and natural language.\n\nEvery olog has a \"target category\", which is taken to be formula_4 (Category of sets), the category of sets and functions, unless otherwise mentioned. In that case, we are looking at a \"set\" of amino acids, a \"set\" of amine groups, and a \"function\" that assigns to every amino acid its amine group. In this article we usually stick to formula_4, though sometimes using the Kleisli category formula_6 of the power set monad. Another possibility, though one we do not use here, would be to use the Kleisli category of probability distributions—the Giry monad—e.g., to obtain a generalization of Markov decision processes.\n\nThe boxes in the above example refer to objects of formula_4. For example, the box containing the sentence \"an amino acid\" refers to the set of all amino acids and the box containing the sentence \"a side chain\" refers to the set of all side chains. The arrow labeled with \"has\" whose source is \"an amino acid\" and whose target is \"a side chain\" refers to a morphism between two objects of formula_4 and thus needs to be a function between two sets. Indeed, every amino acid has a unique side chain so the arrow is a valid morphism of formula_4. The functional nature of the morphisms in formula_4 is expressed in an olog by labeling arrows with appropriate sentences (e.g. \"has\").\n\nFor another example let formula_11 be the power set monad on formula_4 so given formula_13, formula_14 is the power set of A, the natural transformation formula_15 sends formula_16 to the singleton formula_17 and the natural transformation formula_18 unionizes sets. A morphism formula_19 in the Kleisli category formula_6 can be seen as establishing a binary relation R. Given formula_16 and formula_22 we say that formula_23 if formula_24.\n\nWe can use formula_6 as the target category for an olog. In this case the arrows in the olog need to reflect the relational nature of morphisms in formula_6. This can be done by labeling every arrow in the olog with either \"is related to\", or \"is greater than\" and so on.\n\nAn olog formula_1 can also be viewed as a database schema. Every box (object of formula_1) in the olog is a table formula_29 and the arrows (morphisms) emanating from the box are columns in formula_1. The assignment of a particular instance to an object of formula_1 is done through a functor formula_32. In the example above, the box \"an amino acid\" will be represented as a table whose number of rows is equal to the number of types of amino acids and whose number of columns is three, one column for each arrow emanating from that box.\n\nCommunication between different ologs which in practice can be communication between different models or world-views is done using functors. Spivak coins the notions of a 'meaningful' and 'strongly meaningful' functors. Let formula_1 and formula_34 be two ologs, formula_32, formula_36 functors (see the section on ologs and databases) and formula_37 a functor. We say that a formula_38 is \"meaningful\" if there exists a natural transformation formula_39 (the pullback of J by F).\n\nTaking as an example formula_1 and formula_34 as two different scientific models, the functor formula_38 is meaningful if predictions, which are objects in formula_4, made by the first model formula_1 can be translated to the second model formula_34.\n\nWe say that formula_38 is \"strongly meaningful\" if given an object formula_47 we have formula_48. This equality is equivalent to requiring formula_49 to be a natural isomorphism.\n\nSometime it will be hard to find a meaningful functor formula_38 from formula_1 to formula_34. In such a case we may try to define a new olog formula_53 which represents the common ground of formula_1 and formula_34 and find meaningful functors formula_56 and formula_57.\n\nIf communication between ologs is limited to a two-way communication as described above then we may think of a collection of ologs as nodes of a graph and of the edges as functors connecting the ologs. If a simultaneous communication between more than two ologs is allowed then the graph becomes a symmetric simplicial complex.\n\nSpivak provides some rules of good practice for writing an olog whose morphisms have a functional nature (see the first example in the section Mathematical formalism). The text in a box should adhere to the following rules:\n\n\nThe first three rules ensure that the objects (the boxes) defined by the olog's author are well-defined sets. The fourth rule improves the labeling of arrows in an olog.\n\nThe concept was experimentally documented by David Spivak and coauthors Associate Professor Markus J. Buehler of the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering (CEE) and CEE graduate student Tristan Giesa in a paper that was published in the December 2011 issue of \"BioNanoScience\" in which the researchers establish a scientific analogy between spider silk and musical composition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47218645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47218645", "title": "Pawn Stars Australia", "text": "Pawn Stars Australia\n\nPawn Stars Australia is the Australian adaption of the American series of the same name. It premiered on 21 July 2015 on A&E. The Australian version is the third international spin-off after Pawn Stars UK and Pawn Stars South Africa.\n\nThe series stars brothers Aaron and Ben Senes along with their childhood mate Shanon Folden, who own the well-known chain of pawn stores called \"Happy Hockers\" in Sydney. \n\nThe series is directed by Martin Baker and produced by Leftfield Pictures, the same company that produces the American original.\n\nThe complete first season DVD was scheduled to be released on 5 October 2016.\n\nIn April 2014 it was reported that a local adaption of \"Pawn Stars\" was in the works, with filming starting at Sydney's \"Happy Hockers\" which would last 9 weeks. It was believed an official announcement of a late 2014 premiere on A&E would come in the following days. However, it wasn't until August 2014 that the series had officially been commissioned, and that Leftfield Pictures (the company behind \"Pawn Stars U.S.\") were officially confirmed as the producers of the local adaption. It was also stated that the series would air in 2015, rather than in 2014 as previously rumoured. In June 2015 it was announced the series would officially star brothers Aaron and Ben Senes and best friend Shanon Folden and would premiere on 21 July 2015.\n\nThe Senes brother said they agreed to do the reality series to help the public know about the pawn industry, which they said is misunderstood. \"People can see it's a legitimate operation where we do everything by the book and we have a successful business to prove it\", Ben Senes said. The brothers have been in the business for 22 years. Selling jewellery and electronics is the \"bread-and-butter\" of their business but people also bring in highly unusual items. Through the years they have seen everything from monkey testicles, to gold teeth fillings to rare collectibles such as a vintage red telephone box.\n\nAlthough \"Happy Hockers\" operates 5 stores across Sydney, the series is filmed almost entirely at their Bondi Beach store.\n\n"}
{"id": "12278602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12278602", "title": "Physical theories modified by general relativity", "text": "Physical theories modified by general relativity\n\n\"This article will use the Einstein summation convention.\"\n\nThe theory of general relativity required the adaptation of existing theories of physical, electromagnetic, and quantum effects to account for non-Euclidean geometries. These physical theories modified by general relativity are described below.\n\nClassical mechanics and special relativity are lumped together here because special relativity is in many ways intermediate between general relativity and classical mechanics, and shares many attributes with classical mechanics.\n\nIn the following discussion, the mathematics of general relativity is used heavily. Also, under the principle of minimal coupling, the physical equations of special relativity can be turned into their general relativity counterparts by replacing the Minkowski metric (\"η\") with the relevant metric of spacetime (\"g\") and by replacing any partial derivatives with covariant derivatives. In the discussions that follow, the change of metrics is implied.\n\nInertial motion is motion free of all forces. In Newtonian mechanics, the force \"F\" acting on a particle with mass \"m\" is given by Newton's second law, formula_1, where the acceleration is given by the second derivative of position \"r\" with respect to time \"t\" . Zero force means that inertial motion is just motion with zero acceleration:\n\nThe idea is the same in special relativity. Using Cartesian coordinates, inertial motion is described mathematically as:\n\nwhere \"x\" is the position coordinate and \"τ\" is proper time. (In Newtonian mechanics, \"τ ≡ t\", the coordinate time).\n\nIn both Newtonian mechanics and special relativity, space and then spacetime are assumed to be flat, and we can construct a global Cartesian coordinate system. In general relativity, these restrictions on the shape of spacetime and on the coordinate system to be used are lost. Therefore, a different definition of inertial motion is required. In relativity, inertial motion occurs along timelike or null geodesics as parameterized by proper time. This is expressed mathematically by the geodesic equation:\nwhere formula_5 is a Christoffel symbol. Since general relativity describes four-dimensional spacetime, this represents four equations, with each one describing the second derivative of a coordinate with respect to proper time. In the case of flat space in Cartesian coordinates, we have formula_6, so this equation reduces to the special relativity form.\n\nFor gravitation, the relationship between Newton's theory of gravity and general relativity is governed by the correspondence principle: General relativity must produce the same results as gravity does for the cases where Newtonian physics has been shown to be accurate.\n\nAround a spherically symmetric object, the Newtonian theory of gravity predicts that objects will be physically accelerated towards the center on the object by the rule\n\nwhere \"G\" is Newton's Gravitational constant, \"M\" is the mass of the gravitating object, \"r\" is the distance to the gravitation object, and formula_8 is a unit vector identifying the direction to the massive object.\n\nIn the weak-field approximation of general relativity, an identical coordinate acceleration must exist. For the Schwarzschild solution (which is the simplest possible spacetime surrounding a massive object), the same acceleration as that which (in Newtonian physics) is created by gravity is obtained when a constant of integration is set equal to \"2MG/c\"). For more information, see Deriving the Schwarzschild solution.\n\nSome of the basic concepts of general relativity can be outlined outside the relativistic domain. In particular, the idea that mass/energy generates curvature in space and that curvature affects the motion of masses can be illustrated in a Newtonian setting.\n\nGeneral relativity generalizes the geodesic equation and the field equation to the relativistic realm in which trajectories in space are replaced with Fermi–Walker transport along world lines in spacetime. The equations are also generalized to more complicated curvatures.\n\nThe basic structure of general relativity, including the geodesic equation and Einstein field equation, can be obtained from special relativity by examining the kinetics and dynamics of a particle in a circular orbit about the earth. In terms of symmetry, the transition involves replacing global Lorentz covariance with local Lorentz covariance.\n\nIn classical mechanics, conservation laws for energy and momentum are handled separately in the two principles of conservation of energy and conservation of momentum. With the advent of special relativity, these two conservation principles were united through the concept of mass-energy equivalence.\n\nMathematically, the general relativity statement of energy–momentum conservation is:\n\nwhere formula_10 is the stress–energy tensor, the comma indicates a partial derivative and the semicolon indicates a covariant derivative. The terms involving the Christoffel symbols are absent in the special relativity statement of energy–momentum conservation.\n\nUnlike classical mechanics and special relativity, it is not usually possible to unambiguously define the total energy and momentum in general relativity, so the tensorial conservation laws are \"local\" statements only (see ADM energy, though). This often causes confusion in time-dependent spacetimes which apparently do not conserve energy, although the local law is always satisfied. Exact formulation of energy–momentum conservation on an arbitrary geometry requires use of a non-unique stress-energy–momentum pseudotensor.\n\nGeneral relativity modifies the description of electromagnetic phenomena by employing a new version of Maxwell's equations. These differ from the special relativity form in that the Christoffel symbols make their presence in the equations via the covariant derivative.\n\nThe source equations of electrodynamics in curved spacetime are (in cgs units)\n\nwhere \"F\" is the electromagnetic field tensor representing the electromagnetic field and \"J\" is a four-current representing the sources of the electromagnetic field.\n\nThe source-free equations are the same as their special relativity counterparts.\n\nThe effect of an electromagnetic field on a charged object is then modified to\n\nwhere \"q\" is the charge on the object, \"m\" is the rest mass of the object and \"P\" is the four-momentum of the charged object. Maxwell's equations in flat spacetime are recovered in rectangular coordinates by reverting the covariant derivatives to partial derivatives. For Maxwell's equations in flat spacetime in curvilinear coordinates see \nor \n"}
{"id": "24664232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24664232", "title": "Proximity analysis", "text": "Proximity analysis\n\nProximity Analysis is an analytical technique used to determine the relationship between a selected point and its neighbors. Proximity analysis is a crucial tool for business marketing and site selection. Marketers analyze demographics and infrastructure to determine trade areas. Trade areas are continuous geographic areas around a site that generate the majority of revenue.\n\nProximity Analysis is a study using location intelligence, mapping software, to calculate the distances between customer/prospect locations, to your location(s) (retail store, bank, restaurant, dealer, or sales reps) as the first step in building an understanding of trade/sales/service area(s). An analysis typically includes a report and map showing the relationship of the data and often includes competitor locations in the analysis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50080", "title": "Pulitzer Prize for Criticism", "text": "Pulitzer Prize for Criticism\n\nThe Pulitzer Prize for Criticism has been presented since 1970 to a newspaper writer who has demonstrated 'distinguished criticism'. Recipients of the award are chosen by an independent board and officially administered by Columbia University. The Pulitzer Committee issues an official citation explaining the reasons for the award.\n\nThe Criticism Pulitzer has been awarded to one person annually except in 1992 when it was not awarded—43 prizes in 44 years 1970–2013. No person has won it twice.\n"}
{"id": "4070755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4070755", "title": "Russell's teapot", "text": "Russell's teapot\n\nRussell's teapot is an analogy, formulated by the philosopher Bertrand Russell (1872–1970), to illustrate that the philosophic burden of proof lies upon a person making unfalsifiable claims, rather than shifting the burden of \"disproof\" to others. \n\nRussell specifically applied his analogy in the context of religion. He wrote that if he were to assert, without offering proof, that a teapot, too small to be seen by telescopes, orbits the Sun somewhere in space between the Earth and Mars, he could not expect anyone to believe him solely because his assertion could not be proven wrong. \n\nRussell's teapot is still invoked in discussions concerning the existence of God, and has had influence in various fields and media.\n\nIn an article titled \"Is There a God?\" commissioned, but never published, by \"Illustrated\" magazine in 1952, Russell wrote:\n\nIn 1958, Russell elaborated on the analogy:\n\nChemist Peter Atkins said that the point of Russell's teapot is that there is no burden on anyone to disprove assertions. Occam's razor suggests that the simpler theory with fewer assertions (e.g., a universe with no supernatural beings) should be the starting point in the discussion rather than the more complex theory. However, philosopher Paul Chamberlain says it is logically erroneous to assert that positive truth claims bear a burden of proof while negative truth claims do not. He says that all truth claims bear a burden of proof, and that like Mother Goose and the tooth fairy, the teapot bears the greater burden not because of its negativity, but because of its triviality, arguing that \"When we substitute normal, serious characters such as Plato, Nero, Winston Churchill, or George Washington in place of these fictional characters, it becomes clear that anyone denying the existence of these figures has a burden of proof equal to, or in some cases greater than, the person claiming they do exist.\"\n\nIn his books \"A Devil's Chaplain\" (2003) and \"The God Delusion\" (2006), geneticist Richard Dawkins used the teapot as an analogy of an argument against what he termed \"agnostic conciliation\", a policy of intellectual appeasement that allows for philosophical domains that concern exclusively religious matters. Science has no way of establishing the existence or non-existence of a god. Therefore, according to the agnostic conciliator, because it is a matter of individual taste, belief and disbelief in a supreme being are deserving of equal respect and attention. Dawkins presents the teapot as a \"reductio ad absurdum\" of this position: if agnosticism demands giving equal respect to the belief and disbelief in a supreme being, then it must also give equal respect to belief in an orbiting teapot, since the existence of an orbiting teapot is just as plausible scientifically as the existence of a supreme being.\n\nPhilosopher Brian Garvey argues that the teapot analogy fails with regard to religion because, with the teapot, the believer and non-believer are simply disagreeing about one item in the universe and may hold in common all other beliefs about the universe, which is not true of an atheist and a theist. Garvey argues that it is not a matter of the theist propounding existence of a thing and the atheist simply denying it – each is asserting an alternative explanation of why the cosmos exists and is the way it is: \"the atheist is not just denying an existence that the theist affirms – the atheist is in addition committed to the view that the universe is not the way it is because of God. It is either the way it is because of something other than God, or there is no reason it is the way it is.\"\n\nPhilosopher Peter van Inwagen argues that while Russell's teapot is a fine piece of rhetoric, its logical argument form is less than clear, and attempting to make it clear reveals that the Teapot Argument is very far from cogent. Another philosopher, Alvin Plantinga states that a falsehood lies at the heart of Russell's argument. Russell's argument assumes that there is no evidence against the teapot, but Plantinga disagrees:\n\nPhilosopher Gary Gutting rejects Russell's teapot for similar reasons, arguing that Russell's argument accords theism far less support than it actually has. Gutting points out that numerous sensible, competent people appeal to personal experience and arguments in support of God's existence. Thus, to simply reject the existence of God, out of hand, seems unjustified, according to Gutting.\n\nThe literary critic James Wood, without believing in God, says that belief in God \"is a good deal more reasonable than belief in a teapot\" because God is a \"grand and big idea\" which \"is not analogically disproved by reference to celestial teapots or vacuum cleaners, which lack the necessary bigness and grandeur\" and \"because God cannot be reified, cannot be turned into a mere thing\".\n\nOne counter-argument, advanced by philosopher Eric Reitan, is that belief in God is different from belief in a teapot because teapots are physical and therefore in principle verifiable, and that given what we know about the physical world we have no good reason to think that belief in Russell's teapot is justified and at least some reason to think it not.\n\nOther thinkers have posited non-disprovable analogies, such as J. B. Bury in his 1913 book, \"History of Freedom of Thought\":\n\nSome people speak as if we were not justified in rejecting a theological doctrine unless we can prove it false. But the burden of proof does not lie upon the rejecter... If you were told that in a certain planet revolving around Sirius there is a race of donkeys who speak the English language and spend their time in discussing eugenics, you could not disprove the statement, but would it, on that account, have any claim to be believed? Some minds would be prepared to accept it, if it were reiterated often enough, through the potent force of suggestion.\n\nAstronomer Carl Sagan in his 1995 book \"The Demon-Haunted World\" offered a similar non-disprovable analogy called the Dragon in the Garage as an example of skeptical thinking. If Sagan claimed there was a dragon in his garage, you would wish to verify it for yourself but if Sagan's dragon was impossible to detect:\nNow, what's the difference between an invisible, incorporeal, floating dragon who spits heatless fire and no dragon at all? If there's no way to disprove my contention, no conceivable experiment that would count against it, what does it mean to say that my dragon exists?\n\nThe concept of Russell's teapot has influenced more explicitly religion-parodying concepts such as the Invisible Pink Unicorn and the Flying Spaghetti Monster. 1960s musician and psychedelic poet Daevid Allen of the band Gong employed the image of a flying teapot in his Planet Gong Universe and the \"Flying Teapot\" album trilogy, and refers to Russell's teapot in his book \"Gong Dreaming 2: The Histories & Mysteries of Gong from 1969-1975\".\n"}
{"id": "1844427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844427", "title": "Second modernity", "text": "Second modernity\n\nSecond modernity is a phrase coined by the German sociologist Ulrich Beck, and is his word for the period after modernity.\n\nWhere modernity broke down agricultural society in favour of industrial society, second modernity transforms industrial society into a new and more reflexive network society or information society .\n\nSecond modernity is marked by a new awareness of the risks — risks to all forms of life, plant, animal and human — created by the very successes of modernity in tackling the problem of human scarcity . Systems that previously seemed to offer protection from risks both natural and social are increasingly recognised as producing new man-made risks on a global scale as a byproduct of their functioning . Such systems become part of the problem, not the solution. Modernisation and information advances themselves create new social dangers, such as cybercrime (He 2012, 69), while scientific advances open up new areas, like cloning or genetic modification, where decisions are necessarily made without adequate capacity to assess longterm consequences .\n\nRecognising the fresh dilemmas created by this reflexive modernization, Beck has suggested a new \"cosmopolitan Realpolitik\" to overcome the difficulties of a world in which national interests can no longer be promoted effectively at the national level alone .\n\nSecond modernity has also been linked to the so-called knowledge society, marked by a pluralisation of different types of knowledge . It is characterised in particular by knowledge-dependent risks — the uncertainties manufactured by the information world itself .\n\nVarious forms of resistance to second modernity have emerged, among them for example Euroscepticism .\n\nBeck himself sees al-Qaeda as a by-product of, as well as resistance to, second modernity, not only in its use of information technology tools, but also in its syncretist ideology .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39331354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39331354", "title": "Sexual coercion", "text": "Sexual coercion\n\nSexual coercion in animals is the use of violence, threats, harassment, and other tactics to help them forcefully copulate. Such behavior has been compared to sexual assault, including rape, among humans.\n\nIn nature, males and females usually differ in reproductive fitness optima. Males generally prefer to maximize their number of offspring, and therefore their number of mates; females, on the other hand, tend to care more for their offspring and have fewer mates. Because of this, there are generally more males available to mate at a given time, making females a limited resource. This leads males to evolve aggressive mating behaviors which can help them acquire mates.\n\nSexual coercion has been observed in many species, including mammals, birds, insects, and fish. While sexual coercion does help increase male fitness, it is very often costly to females. However, in spite of these costs, a possible benefit to the females is a chance to test the stamina of the males, so that only those with \"good genes\" will father their offspring. Sexual coercion has been observed to have consequences, such as intersexual coevolution, speciation, and sexual dimorphism.\n\nHarassment is a technique used by males of many species to force females to submit to mating. It has been observed in numerous species, including mammals, birds, insects and fish. Aggression and harassment have been documented in the males of guppies (\"Poecilia reticulata\"), bottlenose dolphins (\"Tursiops aduncus\"), botos (\"Inia geoffrensis\"), dusky dolphins (\"Lagenorhynchus obscurus\"), Hector's dolphins (\"Cephalorhynchus hectori\"), grizzly bears, polar bears, and ungulates. It is also seen in Chinook salmon (\"Oncorhynchus tshawytscha\"), red-spotted newts (\"Notophthalmus viridescens\"), and seed-eating true bugs (\"Neacoryphus\" spp.). Furthermore, it is prevalent in spider monkeys, wild Barbary macaques (\"Macaca sylvanus\") and many other primates.\n\nIn basically all major primate taxa, aggression is used by the dominant males when herding females and keeping them away from other males. In hamadryas baboons, the males often bite the females’ necks and threaten them. Wild chimpanzees can charge at females, shake branches, hit, slap, kick, pound, drag, and bite them. Orangutans are among the most forceful of mammals. Bornean orangutans (\"Pongo pygmaeus\") exhibited aggression in almost 90 percent of their copulations, including when the females were not resisting. A possible explanation for aggressive behaviors in primates is that it is a way for males to train females to be afraid of them and be more likely to surrender to future sexual advances.\n\nMales may also use more indirect techniques to mate with females, such as intimidation. While most female water striders (Gerridae) have their genitalia exposed, females of the water strider species \"Gerris gracilicornis\" have evolved a shield over their genitals. As a result, males cannot physically coerce females because mating is difficult unless the female exposes her genitalia. Therefore, males intimidate females into mating by attracting predators; they tap on the water’s surface and create ripples that catch the attention of predatory fish. From there, it is in the best interest of the female to mate, and as quickly as possible, to avoid being eaten by predators. Typical mating positions of water striders have the females on the bottom, closer to predators, so the risk of predation is much higher for them. Females succumb to copulation to get males to cease signaling to predators.\n\nAnother indirect form of sexual coercion occurs in red-sided garter snakes, \"Thamnophis sirtalis parietalis\". When males \"court\" females, they line their bodies up to the females' and produce caudocephalic waves, which are a series of muscle contractions that travel through their bodies from tail to head. The exact reason for this behavior is unknown, but some studies show that it relates to stress. Females have nonrespiratory air sacs containing anoxic air, and the waving pushes this air into her lungs. The resulting stress causes her cloaca to open, and aids the male in inserting his hemipenis. The stronger and more frequent the caudocephalic waves and the closer the male’s cloaca to the female’s, the more likely the male is to mate successfully.\n\nMales of certain species have evolved mating behaviors in which they forcefully attempt to mate with and inseminate females, often employing grasping techniques. These male grasping devices exist to increase the duration of copulation and restrict females from mating with other males. They are in some ways a form of mate guarding. While some males have evolved different types of modifications to aid in grasping, others just grab females and attempt to force copulation.\n\nOne type of grasping modification is spiny male genitalia. In seed beetles (Coleoptera: Bruchidae), males possess sclerotized spines on their genitalia. These spines are used during copulation to help overcome female resistance and penetrate into their copulatory duct. In addition to aiding penetration, these spines promote the passage of seminal fluids, and act as an anchor to keep the female from fleeing. Furthermore, spiny genitals can injure the females and make them less likely to remate. Sepsidae fly males have modifications on their forelegs to help them grasp onto female wing bases. These modifications include cuticular outgrowths, indentations, and bristles, and males use them to secure themselves onto females after jumping on them. Once the males grab on, a struggle ensues akin to a rodeo, where males try to hold on while females violently shake them off.\n\nAnother type of modification is found in male diving beetles (of the family Dytiscidae), who are equipped with suction cup structures on their front legs. They use these to grab passing females and attach to their dorsal surfaces. To get the females to submit, males shake the females violently and keep them submerged underwater (diving beetles cannot go long without atmospheric oxygen). Unable to get air, female diving beetles submit to the male’s advances in order to avoid drowning (and they lose the energy to resist). Once the males attach, copulation can occur.\n\nMale waterfowl have developed another modification; while most male birds have no external genitalia, male waterfowl (Aves: Anatidae) have a phallus (length ). Most birds mate with the males balancing on top of the females and touching cloacas in a “cloacal kiss”; this makes forceful insemination very difficult. The phallus that male waterfowl have evolved everts out of their bodies (in a clockwise coil) and aids in inseminating females without their cooperation.\n\nAnother such technique is having a \"lock-like\" mechanism, found in \"Drosophila montana\", dogs, wolves, and pigs. Towards the end of copulation, females struggle to try to dislodge the males, whose genital organs take much longer to deflate than females do; the locking (most commonly known in canids as a \"tie\") allows the males to copulate for as long as they need to until they are finished. In dogs, the male has a knot in his penis that gets engorged with blood and ties the female, locking them together during copulation, until the act is complete. Male dogs have evolved this mechanism during mating in order to prevent other males from penetration whilst they are and the use of the tie enables them to be more likely to inseminate the female and produce a healthy litter of pups. Breaking this \"tie\" can be physically harmful to both females and males.\n\nMales of many species simply grab the females and force a mating. Coercive mating is very common in water striders (Gerridae) because in most of the species, the female genitalia are often exposed and easily accessible to males. Without any courtship behavior, males initiate by forcefully trying to mount the females. Carrying the males on their backs is energetically costly to females, so they try to resist and throw off the males. The males fight back even harder and use their forelegs to tightly grasp the female’s thorax and keep them from escaping. The males then forcefully insert their genitalia into the female vulvar opening. In the newt species \"Notophthalmus viridescens\", males carry out a courtship behavior called amplexus. It consists of males capturing females that do not want to mate with them and using their hind limbs to grasp the females by their pectoral regions.\n\nMale guppies (\"Poecilia reticulata\") have been observed to forcefully copulate with females by trying to insert their gonopodium (male sex organ) into female’s genital pores, whether or not they are accepting. Sometimes, male guppies also try to forcefully mate with \"Skiffia bilineata\" (goodeid) females, which resemble guppy females and tend to share the same habitat, even when guppy females are available. A possible explanation for this is the deeper genital cavity of \"S. bilineata\", which stimulates the males more than when mating with guppy females.\n\nMales of some species are able to immobilize females and force copulation. In pigs and boars, males grab females and maneuver the pelvis to lift the vaginal opening and facilitate copulation. The stimulation following intromission causes the female to be immobilized. The male can then freely continue copulation without worrying about the female escaping. Immobilization of the female also occurs in muscovy ducks.\n\nGrasping and/or grappling mating situations have also been documented in \"Calopteryx haemorrhoidalis haemorrhoidalis\" (Odonata), fallow deer (\"Dama dama\"), wild orangutans (Smuts 1993), wild chimpanzees, water voles (semi-aquatic rats) \"Arvicola amphibius\", feral fowl, mallard (\"Anas platyrhynchos\"), hamadryas baboons and many other primates, coho salmon (\"Oncorhynchus kisutch\"), and others.\n\nIn some mammal species, mostly nonhuman primates, it is common for males to commit infanticide to mate with females. This happens often in species that live in groups, such as Old and New World monkeys, apes, prosimians, and hamadryas baboons. There is usually a single breeding male in a group, and when an outside male aggressively takes over, he kills off all of the young offspring. The males kill infants that are not their own to assert their strength and position, and mate with the females. Sometimes, multiple males will invade a troop and gang up on females, killing their offspring and subsequently mating with them. This occurs in spider monkeys, red-backed squirrel monkeys, chimpanzees, and red howlers.\n\nIn the newt species \"Notophthalmus viridescens\", the males rub off hormonal secretions onto the skin of the females they are courting. These hormones have been shown to make the female more receptive to mating with the male. When the male deposits the secretions, he detaches from the female and releases a spermatophore (containing spermatozoa). It is then the female’s decision to either accept it and pick it up or reject it by running away; these hormones make her more likely to accept it.\n\nAnother form of coercion is male mate guarding, used to keep females from mating with other males, and often involves aggression. Guarding allows the males to assure their paternity. A classic example occurs in diving beetles, family Dytiscidae. After copulation, males continue to guard females for up to six hours. They hold them underwater, occasionally tilting them up for air. Guarding also occurs in water striders where, once males complete their sperm transfer, they often remain on top of the females. This guarding duration varies, lasting from several minutes to several weeks. The purpose of such long guarding periods is for the males to see the females lay their eggs and be assured that the offspring are theirs. This behavior also occurs in hamadryas baboons (\"Papio hamadryas\"), where the leader males practice intensive mate guarding. In \"Drosophila\" Montana, studies have shown that following mate guarding, the chances of a female mating with or being inseminated by another male were greatly diminished. This shows that the mate guarding tactic can be very effective.\n\nMales of some species use bodily fluids, such as seminal fluid from their ejaculate, to aid in the coercion of females. Seminal fluid in males of Drosophila melanogaster may contain chemicals that increase the amount of time it takes for females to remate, decrease the length of successive matings, or keep her from remating at all. The less a female mates with other males after copulation with a male, the more likely it is for him to ensure his paternity. These chemicals may also serve to increase the female’s reproductive success, but at the cost of decreased longevity and immune response.\n\nIn many species, seminal fluid can be used as a sort of mating plug. Males of these species transfer their sperm at the beginning of copulation and use the rest of copulation to transfer substances that help build up the mating plugs. These plugs are effective in ensuring that the female does not mate with any other males and that the male’s paternity is secured.\n\nA major direct cost of sexual coercion is physical injury. Male seed beetles (Coleoptera: Bruchidae) have sclerotized spine on their genitalia, which penetrate the female and leave melanized scars. Females can be physically injured from just one mating, and the more a female mates, the more scarring forms in the copulatory duct. In guppies, the male’s gonopodium can cause damage when forcefully inserted, causing cloacal damage to the females. In fowl, females can be physically injured during forceful copulations. Also, semen transferred from the males can contain pathogens and fecal matter, which can lead to disease and decrease female fitness. In elephant seals, physical injury happens very often. In fact, mating leads to 1 in every 1,000 female elephant seals getting killed. Other species in which the females (and/or their offspring) are injured or even killed include lions, rodents, farm cats, crabeater seals, elephant seals, sea lions, wild Trinidadian guppies (\"Poecilia reticulata\"), red-sided garter snakes (\"Thamnophis sirtalis parietalis\"), and newts (\"N. viridescens\").\n\nAnother cost is the excess energy and time expenditure that comes with mating. For example, female water striders, Gerridae, and marine snails of the genus \"Littorina\" 24 have to carry the males on their backs while they mate. First of all, this is a great loss of energy. Second, both the male and the female are at a much greater risk of predation in this position. Furthermore, the time spent mating interferes with the time that could have been spent foraging and feeding.\n\nIn addition, sexual coercion can lower body condition and immunity in ways other than physical damage. Harassment can lead to stress, which can result in weight loss, decreased immune function and energy stores, and less feeding, which has been seen in red-spotted newts. Furthermore, when females are constantly moving around to avoid violent males, they are not able to form female social ties (for example, Grévy's zebra/Equus grevyi). This also happens in species where herding males sometimes do not permit females to join their family in different groups, like in hamadryas baboons.\n\nIndirect costs are those that affect females in the future. One such cost happens because sexual coercion does not allow females to choose the males they want to mate with, which are usually males that are higher quality, compatible, and/or have good genes that will increase their offspring’s survival and fitness. Coercion decreases this choice and can lead to their offspring having lower genetic quality. Studies of the rose bitterling (Rhodeus ocellatus), have shown that offspring of females with mate choice had higher survival rates than offspring of females that did not. Another ultimate cost comes from when males commit infanticide to obtain mating access. This loss of offspring leads to a decrease in fitness of females.\n\nAs a response to sexual coercion and the costs that females face, one of their counter-adaptations is the evolution of anatomical protection. Females of some species, such as the water striders, developed morphological shields to protect their genitalia from males that want to forcefully copulate. Some Gerridae females have also evolved abdominal spines and altered the shapes of their abdomens to make them less accessible to males.\n\nWaterfowl males of the family Aves: Anatidae have evolved a phallus to aid in coercion. This phallus everts out of the male body (when it’s time to mate) in a counter-clockwise coil. As a response, females have developed vaginal structures called dead end sacs and clockwise coils to protect themselves from forceful intromission. Waterfowl females have evolved these “convoluted vaginal morphologies” to make it harder for males to insert themselves without the female’s consent.\n\nAnother female tactic to counter coercion is to try to avoid males that may cause them harm. To do this, females often change their habitats to get away from aggressive males, as is seen in wild Trinidadian guppies (\"Poecilia reticulata\"). Female bottlenose dolphins behave in similar ways by moving into shallow waters where there are not too many males. Other species that practice mate avoidance are \"Calopteryx haemorrhoidalis\", a species of damselfly, who often try to hide from large groups of males to avoid harassment.\n\nFemales of the marine intertidal periwinkle species (genus \"Littorina\") have another way to avoid males. Males usually recognize female snails by cues in their mucous trails. However, females try to mask their gender by altering these cues. In damselflies, females also try to mask their gender by mimicking male colors, which make them less attractive to males.\n\nAn effective female strategy is the employment of protection and alliances. Some females, such as wild Trinidadian guppies (Poecilia reticulate) associate themselves with protective males who come to their rescue. This also occurs in hamadryas, savanna, and olive baboons, where males and females form friendships where the female gets male protection. In northern elephant seals, the females give loud cries when mounted by undesirable or subordinate males, which attract dominant males to help. A similar phenomenon occurs in elephants, bighorn sheep, and fallow deer, where the females stay close to dominant males for protection.\n\nFemales can also form alliances with other females for protection against aggressive males. In African vervet monkeys, related females often form groups and “gang up” on males. Females of high rank create networks of female alliances; together, they fight away persistent suitors.\n\nResisting males and fighting back are important tactics some species use to counter male coercion. Many females try to vigorously shake off males to dislodge them and flee; this is seen in females sepsid flies and diving beetles. Sepsids also try to bend their abdomen in such a way that males cannot copulate forcefully. Females are especially likely to fight back when they are protecting their offspring. This is seen in mountain gorillas, red howlers, and grey langur females, where males are often infanticidal.\n\nFemale resistance has rarely been found to be effective. Male mammals and birds are usually larger than females, and the sheer size and strength difference makes this very difficult. However, it has been observed in some species, such as squirrel monkeys, patas monkeys, vervets, and captive chimpanzees, that females can “gang up” on males when they are being aggressive. They will even try to protect a female in distress. Females have even been observed to kill immigrant males in wild red colobus monkeys.\n\nSometimes, females choose not to struggle and simply acquiesce to forceful matings. This can happen when they decide that the cost of resisting would be greater than the cost of mating. They use submission to avoid further harassment or aggression, which could end in death or injury. This is often seen in primate species, such as chimpanzees and hamadryas baboons.\n\nSome possible benefits of sexual coercion for females have been hypothesized.\n\nA possible proximate benefit for females is that sometimes after a male mates with a female, he becomes her mate. Then, he would defend and protect her. This is seen in many primate species.\n\nA possible benefit of sexual coercion that would come out in the long run is the “good genes” hypothesis. If males can overcome a female’s resistance, then they must possess good genes that would increase the survival, mating success, and ultimately the fitness of her offspring. The hypothesis is that females can use the sexual coercion process to assess the quality of a male.\n\nSexual coercion often leads to an intersexual coevolutionary arms race. This consists of females evolving adaptations to male advances and males evolving counter-adaptations as a response. Males persist in violent behavior, which favors the evolution of female resistance to defend themselves. In organisms where males have genitalia harmful to females, such as in certain insects, females tend to evolve thicker, less sensitive copulatory tracts. Also, they may evolve shield over their genital openings to prevent intromission. Females of some species of water striders have evolved protection from forceful insemination, such as abdominal spines and downward-bent abdomens to make it harder for males to mate. In response, however, males have counter evolved, also changing the shape of their abdomens to those that would facilitate forceful mating.\n\nThe male waterfowl (Aves: Anatidae) evolution of a phallus to forcefully copulate with females has led to counteradaptations in females in the form of vaginal structures called dead end sacs and clockwise coils. These structures make it harder for males to achieve intromission. The clockwise coils are significant because the male phallus everts out of their body in a counter-clockwise spiral; therefore, a clockwise vaginal structure would impede forceful copulation. Studies have shown that the longer a male’s phallus is, the more elaborate the vaginal structures were.\n\nSpeciation has been observed to be a possible consequence of sexual coercion. In diving beetle species family Dytiscidae, an intersexual arms race occurs between males and females. Males have evolved suction cup structures on their forelegs to help grasp females; females have counter-evolved setose dorsal furrows to impede forceful copulation. This continuous evolution (in both the forward and reverse directions) has led to the recent speciation of \"A. japonicus\" and \"A. kishii\", where females of \"A. kishii\" have lost their dorsal furrows while those of \"A. japonicus\" have not.\n\nSexual coercion can lead to sexual dimorphisms, in which males and females have significant morphological differences. For example, in some species, larger males are more successful in forcefully mating/insemination, leading to a higher fitness. In red-sided garter snakes, \"Thamnophis sirtalis parietalis\", it has been shown that heavier-bodied males were better courters and their size gave them an advantage over smaller bodied snakes. This helps lead to an evolution of sexual dimorphism, with males larger than females. In other species, males that are smaller than females have higher fitness. Basically, many sex-specific morphological adaptations (for example, in Dytiscidae diving beetles, females have setose dorsal furrows that males do not and males have suction cups on their forelegs that females do not) are sexual dimorphisms caused by sexual coercion.\n"}
{"id": "7075785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7075785", "title": "Spaghetti plot", "text": "Spaghetti plot\n\nA spaghetti plot (also known as a spaghetti chart, spaghetti diagram, or spaghetti model) is a method of viewing data to visualize possible flows through systems. Flows depicted in this manner appear like noodles, hence the coining of this term. This method of statistics was first used to track routing through factories. Visualizing flow in this manner can reduce inefficiency within the flow of a system. In regards to animal populations and weather buoys drifting through the ocean, they are drawn to study distribution and migration patterns. Within meteorology, these diagrams can help determine confidence in a specific weather forecast, as well as positions and intensities of high and low pressure systems. They are composed of deterministic forecasts from atmospheric models or their various ensemble members. Within medicine, they can illustrate the effects of drugs on patients during drug trials.\n\nSpaghetti diagrams have been used to study why butterflies are found where they are, and to see how topographic features (such as mountain ranges) limit their migration and range. Within mammal distributions across central North America, these plots have correlated their edges to regions which were glaciated within the previous ice age, as well as certain types of vegetation.\n\nWithin meteorology, spaghetti diagrams are normally drawn from ensemble forecasts. A meteorological variable e.g. pressure, temperature, or precipitation amount is drawn on a chart for a number of slightly different model runs from an ensemble. The model can then be stepped forward in time and the results compared and be used to gauge the amount of uncertainty in the forecast. If there is good agreement and the contours follow a recognizable pattern through the sequence, then the confidence in the forecast can be high. Conversely, if the pattern is chaotic, i.e., resembling a plate of spaghetti, then confidence will be low. Ensemble members will generally diverge over time and spaghetti plots are a quick way to see when this happens.\n\nSpaghetti plots can be a more favorable choice compared to the mean-spread ensemble in determining the intensity of a coming cyclone, anticyclone, or upper level ridge or trough. Because ensemble forecasts naturally diverge as the days progress, the projected locations of meteorological features will spread further apart. A mean-spread diagram will take a mean of the calculated pressure from each spot on the map as calculated by each permutation in the ensemble, thus effectively smoothing out the projected low and making it appear broader in size but weaker in intensity than the ensemble's permutations had actually indicated. It can also depict two features instead of one if the ensemble clustering is around two different solutions.\n\nVarious forecast models within tropical cyclone track forecasting can be plotted on a spaghetti diagram to show confidence in five-day track forecasts. When track models diverge late in the forecast period, the plot takes on the shape of a squashed spider, and can be referred to as such in National Hurricane Center discussions. Within the field of climatology and paleotempestology, spaghetti plots have been used to correlate ground temperature information derived from boreholes across central and eastern Canada. As in other disciplines, spaghetti diagrams can be used to show the motion of objects, such as drifting weather buoys over time.\n\nSpaghetti diagrams were first used to track routing through a factory. Spaghetti plots are a simple tool to visualize movement and transportation. Analyzing flows through systems can determine where time and energy is wasted, and identifies where streamlining would be beneficial. This is true not only with physical travel through a physical place, but also during more abstract processes such as the application of a mortgage loan.\n\nSpaghetti plots can be used to track the results of drug trials amongst a number of patients on one individual graph to determine their benefit. They have also been used to correlate progesterone levels to early pregnancy loss. The half-life of drugs within people's blood plasma, as well as discriminating effects between different populations, can be diagnosed quickly via these diagrams.\n\n"}
{"id": "517096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=517096", "title": "Steve Moore (ice hockey)", "text": "Steve Moore (ice hockey)\n\nSteven Francis Moore (born September 22, 1978) is a Canadian former professional ice hockey center who played in parts of three National Hockey League (NHL) seasons with the Colorado Avalanche.\n\nMoore is widely known for suffering a career-ending injury as a result of an on-ice attack from behind by then-Vancouver Canucks forward Todd Bertuzzi in 2004. The fall-out from the event has contributed to a growing effort to curb gratuitous violence in hockey, and professional sports in general.\n\nSteve Moore was drafted by the Colorado Avalanche in the 1998 NHL Entry Draft in the second round, the 53rd pick overall. Moore played in 69 games for the Avalanche from 2001 to 2004, scoring five goals and seven assists, all of which were scored in the latter season, before being seriously injured by Todd Bertuzzi who at the time played for the Vancouver Canucks (see below). At the time of the incident, the Avalanche were first overall in the NHL standings, and Moore was playing on the Avalanche's top line, on Right Wing, with linemates Joe Sakic (Center), and Paul Kariya (Left Wing).\n\nOn February 16, 2004, during a Vancouver-Colorado game, Moore injured Canucks team captain Markus Näslund with a high hit while Näslund was reaching for a puck through centre ice. Moore contacted Näslund's head in the play. No penalty was called in connection with the hit, but Näslund suffered a concussion and a bone chip in his elbow as a result, and missed three games. After reviewing tapes of the hit, the NHL ruled that the hit was legal and did not fine or suspend Moore. Canucks head coach Marc Crawford and general manager Brian Burke publicly criticized the non-call by the referees on the incident. \n\nDuring the next game between the Canucks and Avalanche held in Denver, NHL commissioner Gary Bettman and NHL executive vice-president Colin Campbell attended the game, which ended in a tie and saw no major incidents break out.\n\nHowever, on March 8, 2004, during another rematch between the Avalanche and Canucks, things went differently. In the first period, Moore fought Vancouver player Matt Cooke in a fairly even brawl, and served the 5-minute penalty for fighting. The Avalanche would go on to build up a large lead of 8-2 in a fight-filled game. Late in the third period, Todd Bertuzzi was sent onto the ice. After failing to instigate Moore to fight, Bertuzzi skated after Moore, pulled him back by the jersey and punched him in the back of the head. As Moore fell unconscious to the ice, Bertuzzi's weight and momentum drove Moore's head into the ice. Moore's teammate Andrei Nikolishin and Bertuzzi's teammate Sean Pronger then piled on to Moore and Bertuzzi. Moore was knocked out and lay motionless for ten minutes before being carried off on a stretcher. The combination of the hit, fall, and piling-on had resulted in three fractured neck vertebrae, facial cuts and a concussion.\n\nBertuzzi was assessed a match penalty for his actions, which carries an automatic indefinite suspension under NHL rules. On March 11, 2004, the NHL announced Bertuzzi would remain suspended for at least the remainder of the Canucks' season, including any playoff games. The IIHF subsequently honoured the NHL suspension, preventing Bertuzzi playing in any international tournaments or leagues during the 2004–05 NHL lockout.\n\nOn August 22, 2004, Moore was released from a Denver-area hospital. He wore a neck brace for one year and then started physical therapy for his neck injury and concussion.\n\nOn February 17, 2005, Moore filed a civil lawsuit against Bertuzzi. Also named were Brad May (who was quoted as saying that there would \"definitely be a bounty on Moore's head\" after the game), Brian Burke and the Canucks organization. The lawsuit was thrown out in October 2005, with the judge suggesting that the lawsuit be re-filed in Canada, where the incident took place. The lawsuit was re-filed in Canada, in February 2006.\nOn August 8, 2005, NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman announced that Bertuzzi would be allowed to play again at the start of the 2005–06 NHL season. In the league's decision, they cited many reasons for ending the suspension, such as: \n\nOn August 12, 2005, Brian Burke, formerly Vancouver's general manager who was now serving in the same capacity with the Anaheim Mighty Ducks, had made an offer to Moore. It was a two-way contract that would have paid Moore $475,000 US in the NHL and $75,000 if the player suited up for Portland, the Ducks' American Hockey League affiliate. Moore's lawyer Tim Danson described the offer as a self-serving attempt by Burke (who was a defendant in the lawsuit) to mitigate potential legal damages, by attempting to suggest Moore was a minor league player. Further, Danson said that Moore would return to the Avalanche except that Moore was not medically cleared to play hockey, which Brian Burke was well aware of, and described it as adding insult to injury.\n\nOn August 15, 2005, Bertuzzi broke his 17-month-long silence by expressing a desire to move on with his life. \"I'm sure just like Steve Moore and his family, it's been difficult for both parties. I know I wish that day never happened. It's been some tough times, but I've got good family and good friends and good peers in the league that have helped me get over the hump and move forward and come through it.\"\n\nOn November 8, 2005, Moore's Toronto-based lawyer, Tim Danson, said that Moore was skating and doing regular workouts, but continued to suffer concussion-related symptoms. He continued working out for some years afterward, but had to abandon his comeback attempt when it became apparent he would never be medically cleared to return to the ice again.\n\nIn July, 2012, former Avalanche enforcer Scott Parker, who had been a teammate of Moore's very briefly the season prior to the Bertuzzi incident in 2004, made some controversial comments. In an interview with milehighhockey.com, Parker was quoted as saying \"he (Moore) went to Harvard, you know what, blow me. College grad. I never went to college, but I can kick your ass. I'll bring you right down to my IQ level if you want. I'll hit you about four times in the skull, that'll bring you right down.\" \n\nOn February 16, 2006, Moore filed a civil suit in the province of Ontario against Bertuzzi, the Canucks, and the parent company of the Canucks, \"Orca Bay Sports and Entertainment\" for the loss of his NHL career, in his Rookie Year. The lawsuit was seeking $15 million in pecuniary damages for loss of income, $1 million for aggravated damages, and $2 million for punitive damages. Moore's lawyer filed the suit one day before its two-year limitation expired, saying it was because Steve Moore did not want to file the suit and waited until the last minute while he tried to attain medical clearance to resume his career.\n\nBettman attempted to get Bertuzzi and Moore to agree on an out-of-court settlement in the lawsuit filed by Moore. Bertuzzi offered $350,000 to settle the case, an amount which was called \"an insult\" by Moore's lawyer.\n\nOn March 28, 2008, Bertuzzi filed a lawsuit against Crawford, alleging that he was contractually obliged to obey Crawford and that therefore Crawford shares responsibility for the injury to Moore. In response, Crawford later stated that Bertuzzi acted in \"direct disobedience\" to orders from the bench to get off the ice before attacking Moore. On January 14, 2013, The Toronto Star reported that both Moore v. Bertuzzi, et al. and Bertuzzi v. Crawford would begin, after having been postponed several times, in April 2013. Both cases will be held in the Ontario Superior Court before a six-person jury.\n\nOn January 4, 2012, Bertuzzi dropped his third-party lawsuit against Crawford. In the month of October 2013, it was announced that the court date for Moore v. Bertuzzi, et al. will begin on September 8, 2014. On July 2, 2014, Moore's lawsuit was amended, seeking $68 million in damages, up from $38 million. On August 19, 2014, it was announced that an out-of-court settlement had been reached in Steve Moore's lawsuit. Terms of the settlement are confidential.\n\nSteve Moore's older brother Mark, and younger brother, Dominic, all played four years at Harvard University. Because of their relative closeness in age, all three were able to play in the same year for Harvard during the 1999–2000 season. Dominic also went on to play in the NHL.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20254750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20254750", "title": "Syncope (medicine)", "text": "Syncope (medicine)\n\nSyncope, also known as fainting, is a loss of consciousness and muscle strength characterized by a fast onset, short duration, and spontaneous recovery. It is caused by a decrease in blood flow to the brain, typically from low blood pressure. There are sometimes symptoms before the loss of consciousness such as lightheadedness, sweating, pale skin, blurred vision, nausea, vomiting, or feeling warm. Syncope may also be associated with a short episode of muscle twitching. When consciousness and muscle strength are not completely lost, it is called presyncope. It is recommended that presyncope be treated the same as syncope.\nCauses range from non-serious to potentially fatal. There are three broad categories of causes: heart or blood vessel related, reflex also known as neurally mediated, and orthostatic hypotension. Issues with the heart and blood vessels are the cause in about 10% and typically the most serious while neurally mediated is the most common. Heart related causes may include an abnormal heart rhythm, problems with the heart valves or heart muscle and blockages of blood vessels from a pulmonary embolism or aortic dissection among others. Neurally mediated syncope occurs when blood vessels expand and heart rate decreases inappropriately. This may occur from either a triggering event such as exposure to blood, pain, strong feelings or a specific activity such as urination, vomiting, or coughing. This type of syncope may also occur when an area in the neck known as the carotid sinus is pressed. The third type of syncope is due to a drop in blood pressure from standing up. This is often due to medications that a person is taking but may also be related to dehydration, significant bleeding or infection.\nA medical history, physical examination, and electrocardiogram (ECG) are the most effective ways to figure out the underlying cause. The ECG is useful to detect an abnormal heart rhythm, poor blood flow to the heart muscle, and other electrical issue such as long QT syndrome and Brugada syndrome. Heart related causes also often have little history of a prodrome. Low blood pressure and a fast heart rate after the event may indicate blood loss or dehydration, while low blood oxygen levels may be seen following the event in those with pulmonary embolism. More specific tests such as implantable loop recorders, tilt table testing or carotid sinus massage may be useful in uncertain cases. Computed tomography (CT) is generally not required unless specific concerns are present. Other causes of similar symptoms that should be considered include seizure, stroke, concussion, low blood oxygen, low blood sugar, drug intoxication and some psychiatric disorders among others. Treatment depends on the underlying cause. Those who are considered at high risk following investigation may be admitted to hospital for further monitoring of the heart.\nSyncope affects about three to six out of every thousand people each year. It is more common in older people and females. It is the reason for one to three percent of visits to emergency departments and admissions to hospital. Up to half of women over the age of 80 and a third of medical students describe at least one event at some point in their life. Of those presenting with syncope to an emergency department, about 4% died in the next 30 days. The risk of a poor outcome, however, depends very much on the underlying cause.\n\nThe central ischemic response is triggered by an inadequate supply of oxygenated blood in the brain.\n\nThe respiratory system may contribute to oxygen levels through hyperventilation, though a sudden ischaemic episode may also proceed faster than the respiratory system can respond. These processes cause the typical symptoms of fainting: pale skin, rapid breathing, nausea and weakness of the limbs, particularly of the legs. If the ischaemia is intense or prolonged, limb weakness progresses to collapse. An individual with very little skin pigmentation may appear to have all color drained from his or her face at the onset of an episode. This effect combined with the following collapse can make a strong and dramatic impression on bystanders.\n\nThe weakness of the legs causes most sufferers to sit or lie down if there is time to do so. This may avert a complete collapse, but whether the sufferer sits down or falls down, the result of an ischaemic episode is a posture in which less blood pressure is required to achieve adequate blood flow. It is unclear whether this is a mechanism evolved in response to the circulatory difficulties of human bipedalism or merely a serendipitous result of a pre-existing circulatory response.\n\nArterial disease in the upper spinal cord, or lower brain, causes syncope if there is a reduction in blood supply, which may occur with extending the neck or after drugs to lower blood pressure.\n\nVasovagal (situational) syncope is one of the most common types which may occur in response to any of a variety of triggers, such as scary, embarrassing or uneasy situations, during blood drawing, or moments of sudden unusually high stress. There are many different syncope syndromes which all fall under the umbrella of vasovagal syncope related by the same central mechanism, such as urination (\"micturition syncope\"), defecation (\"defecation syncope\"), and others related to trauma and stress.\n\nVasovagal syncope can be considered in two forms:\n\nA pattern of background factors contributes to the attacks. There is typically an unsuspected relatively low blood volume, for instance, from taking a low-salt diet in the absence of any salt-retaining tendency. Heat causes vaso-dilation and worsens the effect of the relatively insufficient blood volume. The next stage is the adrenergic response. If there is underlying fear or anxiety (e.g., social circumstances), or acute fear (e.g., acute threat, needle phobia), the vaso-motor centre demands an increased pumping action by the heart (flight or fight response). This is set in motion via the adrenergic (sympathetic) outflow from the brain, but the heart is unable to meet requirement because of the low blood volume, or decreased return. The high (ineffective) sympathetic activity is always modulated by vagal outflow, in these cases leading to excessive slowing of heart rate. The abnormality lies in this excessive vagal response. The tilt-table test typically evokes the attack.\n\nMuch of this pathway was discovered in animal experiments by Bezold (Vienna) in the 1860s. In animals, it may represent a defence mechanism when confronted by danger (\"playing possum\").\n\nAvoiding what brings on the syncope and possibly greater salt intake is often all that is needed.\n\nPsychological factors also have been found to mediate syncope. It is important for general practitioners and the psychologist in their primary care team to work closely together, and to help patients identify how they might be avoiding activities of daily living due to anticipatory anxiety in relation to a possible faint and the feared physical damage it may cause. Fainting in response to a blood stimulus, needle or a dead body are common and patients can quickly develop safety behaviours to avoid any recurrences of a fainting response. See link for a good description of psychological interventions and theories.\n\nAn evolutionary psychology view is that some forms of fainting are non-verbal signals that developed in response to increased inter-group aggression during the paleolithic. A non-combatant who has fainted signals that she or he is not a threat. This would explain the association between fainting and stimuli such as bloodletting and injuries seen in blood-injection-injury type phobias such as needle phobia as well as the gender differences.\n\nSyncope may occur during deglutition. Manisty et al. note: \"Deglutition syncope is characterised by loss of consciousness on swallowing; it has been associated not only with ingestion of solid food, but also with carbonated and ice-cold beverages, and even belching.\"\n\nThe most common cause of cardiac syncope is cardiac arrhythmia (abnormal heart rhythm) wherein the heart beats too slowly, too rapidly, or too irregularly to pump enough blood to the brain. Some arrhythmias can be life-threatening.\n\nTwo major groups of arrhythmias are bradycardia and tachycardia. Bradycardia can be caused by heart blocks. Tachycardias include SVT (supraventricular tachycardia) and VT (ventricular tachycardia). SVT does not cause syncope except in Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome. Ventricular tachycardia originate in the ventricles. VT causes syncope and can result in sudden death. Ventricular tachycardia, which describes a heart rate of over 100 beats per minute with at least three irregular heartbeats as a sequence of consecutive premature beats, can degenerate into ventricular fibrillation, which is rapidly fatal without cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and defibrillation.\n\nTypically, tachycardic-generated syncope is caused by a cessation of beats following a tachycardic episode. This condition, called tachycardia-bradycardia syndrome, is usually caused by sinoatrial node dysfunction or block or atrioventricular block.\n\nAortic stenosis and mitral stenosis are the most common examples. Aortic stenosis presents with repeated episodes of syncope. A pulmonary embolism can cause obstructed blood vessels and is the cause of syncope in less than 1% of people who present to the emergency department. Rarely, cardiac tumors such as atrial myxomas can also lead to syncope.\n\nThese are relatively infrequent causes of fainting. The most common cause in this category is fainting associated with an acute myocardial infarction or ischemic event. The faint in this case is primarily caused by an abnormal nervous system reaction similar to the reflex faints. In general, faints caused by structural disease of the heart or blood vessels are particularly important to recognize, as they are warning of potentially life-threatening conditions. Among other conditions prone to trigger syncope (by either hemodynamic compromise or by a neural reflex mechanism, or both), some of the most important are hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, acute aortic dissection, pericardial tamponade, pulmonary embolism, aortic stenosis, and pulmonary hypertension.\n\nSick sinus syndrome, a sinus node dysfunction, causing alternating bradycardia and tachycardia. Often there is a long pause asystole between heartbeat.\n\nAdams-Stokes syndrome is a cardiac syncope that occurs with seizures caused by complete or incomplete heart block. Symptoms include deep and fast respiration, weak and slow pulse and respiratory pauses that may last for 60 seconds.\n\nSubclavian steal syndrome arises from retrograde (reversed) flow of blood in the vertebral artery or the internal thoracic artery, due to a proximal stenosis (narrowing) and/or occlusion of the subclavian artery.\n\nAortic dissection (a tear in the aorta) and cardiomyopathy can also result in syncope.\n\nVarious medications, such as beta blockers, may cause bradycardia induced syncope.\n\n\"Orthostatic (postural) hypotensive faint\"s are as common or perhaps even more common than vasovagal syncope. Orthostatic faints are most often associated with movement from lying or sitting to a standing position, standing up too quickly, or being in a very hot room. The classic example of a combination of these is seen in the frequent fainting by medical students in the operating theatre during observation of surgery.\n\nApparently healthy individuals may experience minor symptoms (\"lightheadedness\", \"greying-out\") as they stand up if blood pressure is slow to respond to the stress of upright posture. If the blood pressure is not adequately maintained during standing, faints may develop. However, the resulting \"transient orthostatic hypotension\" does not necessarily signal any serious underlying disease.\n\nThe most susceptible individuals are elderly frail individuals, or persons who are dehydrated from hot environments or inadequate fluid intake. More serious orthostatic hypotension is often the result of certain commonly prescribed medications such as diuretics, β-adrenergic blockers, other anti-hypertensives (including vasodilators), and nitroglycerin. In a small percentage of cases, the cause of orthostatic hypotensive faints is structural damage to the autonomic nervous system due to systemic diseases (e.g., amyloidosis or diabetes) or in neurological diseases (e.g., Parkinson's disease).\n\nFactors that influence fainting are fasting long hours, taking in too little food and fluids, low blood pressure, low blood sugar, high g-force, emotional distress, and lack of sleep.\n\nOne theory in evolutionary psychology is that fainting at the sight of blood might have evolved as a form of playing dead which increased survival from attackers and might have slowed blood loss in a primitive environment. \"Blood-injury phobia\", as this is called, is experienced by about 15% of people.\n\nFainting can occur in \"cough syncope\" following severe fits of coughing, such as that associated with pertussis or \"whooping cough.\"\n\nA hemoglobin count may indicate anemia or blood loss. However, this has been useful in only about 5% of people evaluated for fainting.\n\nAn electrocardiogram (ECG) records the electrical activity of the heart. It is estimated that from 20%-50% of people have an abnormal ECG. However, while an ECG may identify conditions such as atrial fibrillation, heart block, or a new or old heart attack, it typically does not provide a definite diagnosis for the underlying cause for fainting.\n\nSometimes, a Holter monitor may be used. This is a portable ECG device that can record the wearer's heart rhythms during daily activities over an extended period of time. Since fainting usually does not occur upon command, a Holter monitor can provide a better understanding of the heart's activity during fainting episodes.\n\nThe tilt table test is performed to elicit orthostatic syncope secondary to autonomic dysfunction (neurogenic).\n\nFor people with more than two episodes of syncope and no diagnosis on “routine testing”, an insertable cardiac monitor might be used. It lasts 28–36 months. Smaller than a pack of gum, it is inserted just beneath the skin in the upper chest area. The procedure typically takes 15 to 20 minutes. Once inserted, the device continuously monitors the rate and rhythm of the heart. Upon waking from a “fainting” spell, the patient places a hand held pager-sized device called an Activator over the implanted device and simply presses a button. This information is stored and retrieved by their physician and some devices can be monitored remotely.\n\nFor people with uncomplicated syncope (without seizures and a normal neurological exam) computed tomography or MRI is not generally indicated. Likewise, using carotid ultrasonography on the premise of identifying carotid artery disease as a cause of syncope also is not indicated. Although sometimes investigated as a cause of syncope, carotid artery problems are unlikely to cause that condition. Additionally an electroencephalogram (EEG) is generally not recommended.\n\nThe San Francisco syncope rule was developed to isolate people who have higher risk for a serious cause of syncope. High risk is anyone who has: congestive heart failure, hematocrit <30%, electrocardiograph abnormality, shortness of breath, or systolic blood pressure <90 mmHg. The San Francisco syncope rule however was not validated by subsequent studies.\n\nRecommended acute treatment of vasovagal and orthostatic (hypotension) syncope involves returning blood to the brain by positioning the person on the ground, with legs slightly elevated or leaning forward and the head between the knees for at least 10–15 minutes, preferably in a cool and quiet place. For individuals who have problems with chronic fainting spells, therapy should focus on recognizing the triggers and learning techniques to keep from fainting. At the appearance of warning signs such as lightheadedness, nausea, or cold and clammy skin, counter-pressure maneuvers that involve gripping fingers into a fist, tensing the arms, and crossing the legs or squeezing the thighs together can be used to ward off a fainting spell. After the symptoms have passed, sleep is recommended. If fainting spells occur often without a triggering event, syncope may be a sign of an underlying heart disease. In case syncope is caused by cardiac disease, the treatment is much more sophisticated than that of vasovagal syncope and may involve pacemakers and implantable cardioverter-defibrillators depending on the precise cardiac cause.\n\nFainting in women was a commonplace trope or stereotype in Victorian England and in contemporary and modern depictions of the period.\n\nFalling-out is a culture-bound syndrome primarily reported in the southern United States and the Caribbean.\n\nSome individuals occasionally or frequently play the \"fainting game\" (also referred to in the US as the \"choking game\"), which involves the deliberate induction of syncope via voluntary restriction of blood flow to the brain, an action that can result in acute or cumulative brain damage and even death.\n\nThe term is derived from the Late Latin \"syncope\", from Ancient Greek συγκοπή (\"sunkopē\") 'cutting up', 'sudden loss of strength', from σύν (\"sun\", \"together, thoroughly\") and κόπτειν (\"koptein\", \"strike, cut off\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55573246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55573246", "title": "Systems chemistry", "text": "Systems chemistry\n\nSystems Chemistry is the science of studying networks of interacting molecules, to create new functions from an ensemble of molecular components at different hierarchical levels with emergent properties.\n\nSystems chemistry also related to the origin of life (abiogenesis)\n\nSystems chemistry is a relatively young sub-discipline of chemistry, where the focus does not lie on the individual chemical components but rather on the overall network of interacting molecules and on their emergent properties. Hence, it combines the classical knowledge of chemistry (structure, reactions and interactions of molecules) together with a systems approach inspired by systems biology and systems science.\n\nWhile multicomponent reactions have been studied for centuries, the idea of deliberately analyzing mixtures and reaction networks is more recent. The first mentions of systems chemistry as a field date from 2005 . Early adopters focused on prebiotic chemistry combined with supramolecular chemistry, before it was generalized to the study of emergent properties and functions of any complex molecular systems. A 2017 review in the field of systems chemistry described the state of the art as out-of-equilibrium self-assembly, fuelled molecular motion, chemical networks in compartments and oscillating reactions.\n\nDynamic combinatorial chemistry has been used as a method to develop ligands for biomolecules and receptors for small molecules.\n\nLigands that can recognize biomolecules are being identified by preparing libraries of potential ligands in the presence of a target biomacromolecule. This approach sets the stage for their application as diagnostic biosensors for fast monitoring of imbalances and illnesses and therapeutic agents.\n\nIndividual components of certain chemical system will self-assemble to form receptors which are\ncomplementary to target molecule. In principle, the preferred library members will select and\namplify based on the strongest interactions between the template and products.\n\nA fundamental difference exists between chemistry as it is performed in most laboratories and chemistry as it occurs in life. Laboratory processes are mostly designed such that the (closed) system goes thermodynamically downhill; i.e. the product state is of lower Gibbs free energy, yielding stable molecules that can be isolated and stored. Yet the chemistry of life operates in a very different way: Most molecules from which living systems are constituted are turned over continuously and are not necessarily thermodynamically stable. Nevertheless, living systems can be stable, but in a homeostatic sense. Such homeostatic (open) systems are far-from-equilibrium and are dissipative: they need energy to maintain themselves. In dissipative controlled systems the continuous supply of energy allows a continuous transition between different supramolecular states, where systems with unexpected properties may be discovered. One of the grand challenges of Systems Chemistry is to unveil complex reactions networks, where molecules continuously consume energy to perform specific functions.\n"}
{"id": "35435751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35435751", "title": "Timeline of the Gwangmu Reform", "text": "Timeline of the Gwangmu Reform\n\nThe following is a timeline of the Gwangmu Reform, which was a reforms for modernize Korea from the late 19th century to the early 20th century. Although many people have the notion that this period was marked with the fight for power between Heungseon Daewongun (흥선대원군, 興宣大院君 - King Gojong's father) and Queen Min (King Gojong's wife), it was rather the era of great changes relevant to modernisation after the harsh oppressive years during the \"Regency\" of King Gojong's father. This reform also was one of the most successful for modernising in a short period of time during Korean history. Although the reform was mostly centred on the time period after the proclamation of the Korean Empire, it includes a number of other previous events that are closely related to the reform.\n\nPhase one of the Gwangmu Reform began with the first Korean delegation to America, and opening up for modernisation. Because of recurring Chinese interventions led by Li Hongzhang (이홍장,李鴻章), there was relatively less development of Chosun compared to Phase Three. The main innovator in this phase is Queen Min.\n\n\n\n\nThis phase does not show much development within the Korean Peninsula. It is a brief period of intense power struggle between Japan and Russia, competing to expand their influence in the peninsula.\n\n\n\nPhase two of the Gwangmu Reform began with the proclamation of the Korean Empire on 4 October 1897. Efforts for modernisation were spurred with the coronation of Gojong as Emperor but were restrained by Japan after the Russo-Japanese War in 1905. The main innovator in this phase is Emperor Gojong.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThis was the darkest period of the Gwangmu Reform, ending with the annexation of Korea by Japan on the 29th of August, 1910.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "454164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=454164", "title": "Upper class", "text": "Upper class\n\nThe upper class in modern societies is the social class composed of people who hold the highest social status, and usually are also the wealthiest members of society, and also wield the greatest political power. According to this view, the upper class is generally distinguished by immense wealth which is passed on from generation to generation. Prior to the 20th century, the emphasis was on \"aristocracy\", which emphasized generations of inherited noble status, not just recent wealth. \n\nBecause the upper classes of a society may no longer rule the society in which they are living, they are often referred to as the old upper classes and they are often culturally distinct from the newly rich middle classes that tend to dominate public life in modern social democracies. According to the latter view held by the traditional upper classes, no amount of individual wealth or fame would make a person from an undistinguished background into a member of the upper class as one must be born into a family of that class and raised in a particular manner so as to understand and share upper class values, traditions, and cultural norms.\nThe term is often used in conjunction with terms like \"upper-middle class\", \"middle class\", and \"working class\" as part of a model of social stratification.\n\nHistorically in some cultures, members of an upper class often did not have to work for a living, as they were supported by earned or inherited investments (often real estate), although members of the upper class may have had less actual money than merchants. Upper-class status commonly derived from the social position of one's family and not from one's own achievements or wealth. Much of the population that composed the upper class consisted of aristocrats, ruling families, titled people, and religious hierarchs. These people were usually born into their status and historically there was not much movement across class boundaries.\nIn many countries, the term \"upper class\" was intimately associated with hereditary land ownership. Political power was often in the hands of the landowners in many pre-industrial societies despite there being no legal barriers to land ownership for other social classes. Upper-class landowners in Europe were often also members of the titled nobility, though not necessarily: the prevalence of titles of nobility varied widely from country to country. Some upper classes were almost entirely untitled, for example, the Szlachta of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth.\n\nIn England, Wales, Scotland, and Ireland, the \"upper class\" traditionally comprised the landed gentry and the aristocracy of noble families with hereditary titles. The vast majority of post-medieval aristocratic families originated in the merchant class and were ennobled between the 14th and 19th centuries while intermarrying with the old nobility and gentry. Since the Second World War, the term has come to encompass rich and powerful members of the managerial and professional classes as well.\n\nIn the United States, the upper class, as distinguished from the rich, is often considered to consist of those families that have for many generations enjoyed top social status based on their leadership in society. In this respect, the US differs little from countries such as the UK where membership of the 'upper class' is also dependent on other factors. In the United Kingdom, it has been said that class is relative to where you have come from, similar to the United States where class is more defined by \"who\" as opposed to \"how much\"; that is, in the UK and the US people are born into the upper class. The American upper class is estimated to constitute less than 1% of the population. By self-identification, according to this 2001–2012 Gallup Poll data, 98% of Americans identify with the 5 other class terms used, 48–50% identifying as \"middle class\".\n\nThe main distinguishing feature of the upper class is its ability to derive enormous incomes from wealth through techniques such as money management and investing, rather than engaging in wage-labor or salaried employment. Successful entrepreneurs, CEOs, politicians, investment bankers, venture capitalists, heirs to fortunes, some lawyers, top-flight physicians, and celebrities are considered members of this class by contemporary sociologists, such as James Henslin or Dennis Gilbert. There may be prestige differences between different upper-class households. An A-list actor, for example, might not be accorded as much prestige as a former U.S. President, yet all members of this class are so influential and wealthy as to be considered members of the upper class. At the pinnacle of U.S wealth, 2004 saw a dramatic increase in the numbers of billionaires. According to \"Forbes Magazine\", there are now 374 U.S. billionaires. The growth in billionaires took a dramatic leap since the early 1980s, when the average net worth of the individuals on the Forbes 400 list was $400 million. Today, the average net worth is $2.8 billion. Wal-Mart Walton family now has 771,287 times more than the median U.S household (Collins and Yeskel 322).\nSince the 1970s income inequality in the United States has been increasing, with the top 1% experiencing significantly larger gains in income than the rest of society. Alan Greenspan, former chair of the Federal Reserve, sees it as a problem for society, calling it a \"very disturbing trend\".\n\nAccording to the book \"Who Rules America?\" by William Domhoff, the distribution of wealth in America is the primary highlight of the influence of the upper class. The top 1% of Americans own around 34% of the wealth in the U.S. while the bottom 80% own only approximately 16% of the wealth. This large disparity displays the unequal distribution of wealth in America in absolute terms.\n\nIn 1998, Bob Herbert of \"The New York Times\" referred to modern American plutocrats as \"The Donor Class\" (list of top donors) and defined the class, for the first time, as \"a tiny group – just one-quarter of 1 percent of the population – and it is not representative of the rest of the nation. But its money buys plenty of access\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "261873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=261873", "title": "Virtue ethics", "text": "Virtue ethics\n\nVirtue ethics (or aretaic ethics , from Greek ἀρετή (\"arete\")) are normative ethical theories which emphasize virtues of mind and character. Virtue ethicists discuss the nature and definition of virtues and other related problems. These include how virtues are acquired, how they are applied in various real life contexts, and whether they are rooted in a universal human nature or in a plurality of cultures.\n\nThe western tradition's key concepts derive from ancient Greek philosophy. These theories include \"arete\" (excellence or virtue), \"phronesis\" (practical or moral wisdom), and \"eudaimonia\" (flourishing).\n\nA virtue is generally agreed to be a character trait, such as a habitual action or settled sentiment. Specifically, a virtue is a positive trait that makes its possessor a good human being. A virtue is thus to be distinguished from single actions or feelings. Rosalind Hursthouse says: A virtue such as honesty or generosity is not just a tendency to do what is honest or generous, nor is it to be helpfully specified as a “desirable” or “morally valuable” character trait. It is, indeed a character trait—that is, a disposition which is well entrenched in its possessor, something that, as we say “goes all the way down”, unlike a habit such as being a tea-drinker—but the disposition in question, far from being a single track disposition to do honest actions, or even honest actions for certain reasons, is multi-track. It is concerned with many other actions as well, with emotions and emotional reactions, choices, values, desires, perceptions, attitudes, interests, expectations and sensibilities. To possess a virtue is to be a certain sort of person with a certain complex mindset. (Hence the extreme recklessness of attributing a virtue on the basis of a single action.)Practical wisdom is an acquired trait that enables its possessor to identify the thing to do in any given situation. Unlike theoretical wisdom, practical reason results in action or decision. As John McDowell puts it, practical wisdom involves a \"perceptual sensitivity\" to what a situation requires.\n\n\"Eudaimonia\" (εὐδαιμονία) is a state variously translated from Greek as 'well-being', 'happiness', 'blessedness', and in the context of virtue ethics, 'human flourishing'. \"Eudaimonia\" in this sense is not a subjective, but an objective, state. It characterizes the well-lived life. According to Aristotle, the most prominent exponent of \"eudaimonia\" in the Western philosophical tradition, \"eudaimonia\" is the proper goal of human life. It consists of exercising the characteristic human quality—reason—as the soul's most proper and nourishing activity. In his \"Nicomachean Ethics\", Aristotle, like Plato before him, argued that the pursuit of \"eudaimonia\" is an \"activity of the soul in accordance with perfect virtue\", which further could only properly be exercised in the characteristic human community—the \"polis\" or city-state.\n\nAlthough \"eudaimonia\" was first popularized by Aristotle, it now belongs to the tradition of virtue theories generally. For the virtue theorist, \"eudaimonia\" describes that state achieved by the person who lives the proper human life, an outcome that can be reached by practicing the virtues. A virtue is a habit or quality that allows the bearer to succeed at his, her, or its purpose. The virtue of a knife, for example, is sharpness; among the virtues of a racehorse is speed. Thus, to identify the virtues for human beings, one must have an account of what the human purpose is.\n\nLike much of the Western tradition, virtue theory seems to have originated in ancient Greek philosophy.\n\nVirtue ethics began with Socrates, and was subsequently developed further by Plato, Aristotle, and the Stoics. Virtue ethics refers to a collection of normative ethical philosophies that place an emphasis on being rather than doing. Another way to say this is that in virtue ethics, morality stems from the identity or character of the individual, rather than being a reflection of the actions (or consequences thereof) of the individual. Today, there is debate among various adherents of virtue ethics concerning what specific virtues are morally praiseworthy. However, most theorists agree that morality comes as a result of intrinsic virtues. Intrinsic virtues are the common link that unites the disparate normative philosophies into the field known as virtue ethics. Plato and Aristotle's treatment of virtues are not the same. Plato believes virtue is effectively an end to be sought, for which a friend might be a useful means. Aristotle states that the virtues function more as means to safeguard human relations, particularly authentic friendship, without which one's quest for happiness is frustrated.\n\nDiscussion of what were known as the Four Cardinal Virtues – wisdom, justice, fortitude, and temperance – can be found in Plato's \"Republic\". The virtues also figure prominently in Aristotle's moral theory (see below). Virtue theory was inserted into the study of history by moralistic historians such as Livy, Plutarch, and Tacitus. The Greek idea of the virtues was passed on in Roman philosophy through Cicero and later incorporated into Christian moral theology by St. Ambrose of Milan. During the scholastic period, the most comprehensive consideration of the virtues from a theological perspective was provided by St. Thomas Aquinas in his \"Summa Theologiae\" and his \"Commentaries on the Nicomachean Ethics\".\n\nThough the tradition receded into the background of European philosophical thought in these centuries, the term \"virtue\" remained current during this period, and in fact appears prominently in the tradition of classical republicanism or classical liberalism. This tradition was prominent in the intellectual life of 16th-century Italy, as well as 17th- and 18th-century Britain and America; indeed the term \"virtue\" appears frequently in the work of Niccolò Machiavelli, David Hume, the republicans of the English Civil War period, the 18th-century English Whigs, and the prominent figures among the Scottish Enlightenment and the American Founding Fathers.\n\nAlthough some Enlightenment philosophers (e.g. Hume) continued to emphasise the virtues, with the ascendancy of utilitarianism and deontology, virtue theory moved to the margins of Western philosophy. The contemporary revival of virtue theory is frequently traced to the philosopher G. E. M. Anscombe's 1958 essay \"Modern Moral Philosophy\". Following this:\n\nThe aretaic turn in moral philosophy is paralleled by analogous developments in other philosophical disciplines. One of these is epistemology, where a distinctive virtue epistemology has been developed by Linda Zagzebski and others. In political theory, there has been discussion of \"virtue politics\", and in legal theory, there is a small but growing body of literature on virtue jurisprudence. The aretaic turn also exists in American constitutional theory, where proponents argue for an emphasis on virtue and vice of constitutional adjudicators.\n\nAretaic approaches to morality, epistemology, and jurisprudence have been the subject of intense debates. One criticism that is frequently made focuses on the problem of guidance; opponents, such as Robert Louden in his article \"Some Vices of Virtue Ethics\", question whether the idea of a virtuous moral actor, believer, or judge can provide the guidance necessary for action, belief formation, or the decision of legal disputes.\n\nThere are several different lists of particular virtues. Socrates argued that virtue is knowledge, which suggests that there is really only one virtue. The Stoics concurred, claiming the four cardinal virtues were only aspects of true virtue. John McDowell is a recent defender of this conception. He argues that virtue is a \"perceptual capacity\" to identify how one ought to act, and that all particular virtues are merely \"specialized sensitivities\" to a range of reasons for acting.\n\n\nAristotle identifies approximately eighteen virtues that enable a person to perform their human function well. He distinguished virtues pertaining to emotion and desire from those pertaining to the mind. The first he calls \"moral\" virtues, and the second intellectual virtues (though both are \"moral\" in the modern sense of the word). Each moral virtue was a mean (see golden mean) between two corresponding vices, one of excess and one of deficiency. Each intellectual virtue is a mental skill or habit by which the mind arrives at truth, affirming what is or denying what is not. In the \"Nicomachean Ethics\" he discusses about 11 moral virtues:\n\n\n1. Courage in the face of fear\n\n2. Temperance in the face of pleasure and pain\n\n3. Liberality with wealth and possessions\n\n4. Magnificence with great wealth and possessions\n\n5. Magnanimity with great honors\n\n6. Proper ambition with normal honors\n\n7. Truthfulness with self-expression\n\n8. Wittiness in conversation\n\n9. Friendliness in social conduct\n\n10. Modesty in the face of shame or shamelessness\n\n11. Righteous indignation in the face of injury\n\nAristotle also mentions several other traits: \nAristotle's list is not the only list, however. As Alasdair MacIntyre observed in \"After Virtue\", thinkers as diverse as: Homer; the authors of the New Testament; Thomas Aquinas; and Benjamin Franklin; have all proposed lists.\n\nSome philosophers criticise virtue ethics as culturally relative. Since different people, cultures and societies often have different opinions on what constitutes a virtue, perhaps there is no one objectively right list.\n\nFor example, regarding what are the most important virtues, Aristotle proposed the following nine: wisdom; prudence; justice; fortitude; courage; liberality; magnificence; magnanimity; temperance. In contrast, one modern-era philosopher proposed as the four cardinal virtues: ambition/humility; love; courage; and honesty.\n\nAs another example, regarding virtues once supposedly applicable to women, many would have once considered a virtuous woman to be quiet, servile, and industrious. This conception of female virtue no longer holds true in many modern societies. Proponents of virtue theory sometimes respond to this objection by arguing that a central feature of a virtue is its \"universal applicability\". In other words, any character trait defined as a virtue must reasonably be universally regarded as a virtue for all sentient beings. According to this view, it is inconsistent to claim for example servility as a female virtue, while at the same time not proposing it as a male one.\n\nOther proponents of virtue theory, notably Alasdair MacIntyre, respond to this objection by arguing that any account of the virtues must indeed be generated out of the community in which those virtues are to be practiced: the very word \"ethics\" implies \"ethos\". That is to say that the virtues are, and necessarily must be, grounded in a particular time and place. What counts as virtue in 4th-century Athens would be a ludicrous guide to proper behavior in 21st-century Toronto, and vice versa. To take this view does not necessarily commit one to the argument that accounts of the virtues must therefore be static: moral activity—that is, attempts to contemplate and practice the virtues—can provide the cultural resources that allow people to change, albeit slowly, the ethos of their own societies. MacIntyre appears to take this position in his seminal work on virtue ethics, \"After Virtue\". One might cite (though MacIntyre does not) the rapid emergence of abolitionist thought in the slave-holding societies of the 18th-century Atlantic world as an example of this sort of change: over a relatively short period of time, perhaps 1760 to 1800, in Britain, France, and British America, slave-holding, previously thought to be morally neutral or even virtuous, rapidly became seen as vicious among wide swathes of society. While the emergence of abolitionist thought derived from many sources, the work of David Brion Davis, among others, has established that one source was the rapid, internal evolution of moral theory among certain sectors of these societies, notably the Quakers.\n\nAnother objection to virtue theory is that the school does not focus on what \"sorts of actions\" are morally permitted and which ones are not, but rather on what sort of qualities someone ought to foster in order to become a good person. In other words, while some virtue theorists may not condemn, for example, murder as an inherently immoral or impermissible sort of action, they may argue that someone who commits a murder is severely lacking in several important virtues, such as compassion and fairness. Still, antagonists of the theory often object that this particular feature of the theory makes virtue ethics useless as a universal norm of acceptable conduct suitable as a base for legislation. Some virtue theorists concede this point, but respond by opposing the very notion of legitimate legislative authority instead, effectively advocating some form of anarchism as the political ideal. Others argue that laws should be made by virtuous legislators. Still others argue that it is possible to base a judicial system on the moral notion of virtues rather than rules.\n\nSome virtue theorists might respond to this overall objection with the notion of a \"bad act\" also being an act characteristic of vice. That is to say that those acts that do not aim at virtue, or stray from virtue, would constitute our conception of \"bad behavior\". Although not all virtue ethicists agree to this notion, this is one way the virtue ethicist can re-introduce the concept of the \"morally impermissible\". One could raise objection with Foot that she is committing an argument from ignorance by postulating that what is not virtuous is unvirtuous. In other words, just because an action or person 'lacks of evidence' for virtue does not, all else constant, imply that said action or person is unvirtuous.\n\nMartha Nussbaum has suggested that while virtue ethics is often considered to be anti-Enlightenment, \"suspicious of theory and respectful of the wisdom embodied in local practices\", it is actually neither fundamentally distinct from, nor does it qualify as a rival approach to deontology and utilitarianism. She argues that philosophers from these two Enlightenment traditions often include theories of virtue. She pointed out that Kant's \"Doctrine of Virtue\" (in \"The Metaphysics of Morals\") \"covers most of the same topics as do classical Greek theories\", \"that he offers a general account of virtue, in terms of the strength of the will in overcoming wayward and selfish inclinations; that he offers detailed analyses of standard virtues such as courage and self-control, and of vices, such as avarice, mendacity, servility, and pride; that, although in general he portrays inclination as inimical to virtue, he also recognizes that sympathetic inclinations offer crucial support to virtue, and urges their deliberate cultivation.\"\n\nNussbaum also points to considerations of virtue by utilitarians such as Henry Sidgwick (\"The Methods of Ethics\"), Jeremy Bentham (\"The Principles of Morals and Legislation\"), and John Stuart Mill, who writes of moral development as part of an argument for the moral equality of women (\"The Subjection of Women\"). She argues that contemporary virtue ethicists such as Alasdair MacIntyre, Bernard Williams, Philippa Foot, and John McDowell have few points of agreement, and that the common core of their work does not represent a break from Kant.\n\nRobert Louden criticises virtue ethics on the basis that it promotes a form of unsustainable utopianism. Trying to come to \"a\" single set of virtues is immensely difficult in contemporary societies as, according to Louden, they contain \"more ethnic, religious, and class groups than did the moral community which Aristotle theorized about\" with each of these groups having \"not only its own interests but its own set of virtues as well\". Louden notes in passing that MacIntyre, a supporter of virtue-based ethics, has grappled with this in \"After Virtue\" but that ethics cannot dispense with building rules around acts and rely only on discussing the moral character of persons.\n\nVirtue ethics can be contrasted to deontological ethics and consequentialist ethics by an examination of the other two (the three being together the most predominant contemporary normative ethical theories).\n\nDeontological ethics, sometimes referred to as duty ethics, places the emphasis on adhering to ethical principles or duties. How these duties are defined, however, is often a point of contention and debate in deontological ethics. One of the predominant rule schemes utilized by deontologists is the Divine Command Theory. Deontology also depends upon meta-ethical realism, in that it postulates the existence of moral absolutes that make an action moral, regardless of circumstances. For more information on deontological ethics refer to the work of Immanuel Kant.\n\nThe next predominant school of thought in normative ethics is consequentialism. While deontology places the emphasis on doing one's duty, which is established by some kind of moral imperative (in other words, the emphasis is on obedience to some higher moral absolute), consequentialism bases the morality of an action upon the consequences of the outcome. Instead of saying that one has a moral duty to abstain from murder, a consequentialist would say that we should abstain from murder because it causes undesirable effects. The main contention here is what outcomes should/can be identified as objectively desirable. The Greatest Happiness Principle of John Stuart Mill is one of the most commonly adopted criteria. Mill asserts that our determinant of the desirability of an action is the net amount of happiness it brings, the number of people it brings it to, and the duration of the happiness. He also tries to delineate classes of happiness, some being preferable to others, but there is a great deal of difficulty in classifying such concepts. \n\nVirtue ethics differs from both deontology consequentialism as it focuses on being over doing. A virtue ethicist identifies virtues, desirable characteristics, that the moral or virtuous person embodies. Possessing these virtues is what makes one moral, and one's actions are a mere reflection of one's inner morality. To the virtue philosopher, action cannot be used as a demarcation of morality, because a virtue encompasses more than just a simple selection of action. Instead, it is about a way of being that would cause the person exhibiting the virtue to make a certain \"virtuous\" choice consistently in each situation. There is a great deal of disagreement within virtue ethics over what are virtues and what are not. There are also difficulties in identifying what is the \"virtuous\" action to take in all circumstances, and how to define a virtue.\n\nConsequentialist and deontological theories often still employ the term 'virtue', but in a restricted sense, namely as a tendency or disposition to adhere to the system's principles or rules. These very different senses of what constitutes virtue, hidden behind the same word, are a potential source of confusion. This disagreement over the meaning of virtue points to a larger conflict between virtue theory and its philosophical rivals. A system of virtue theory is only intelligible if it is teleological: that is, if it includes an account of the purpose (\"telos\") of human life, or in popular language, the meaning of life. Obviously, strong claims about the purpose of human life, or of what the good life for human beings is, will be highly controversial. Virtue theory's necessary commitment to a teleological account of human life thus puts the tradition in sharp tension with other dominant approaches to normative ethics, which, because they focus on actions, do not bear this burden.\n\nVirtue ethics mainly deals with the honesty and morality of a person. It states that practicing good habits such as honesty, generosity makes a moral and virtuous person. It guides a person without specific rules for resolving the ethical complexity.\n\nVirtue theory emphasises Aristotle's belief in the polis as the acme of political organisation, and the role of the virtues in enabling human beings to flourish in that environment. Classical republicanism in contrast emphasises Tacitus' concern that power and luxury can corrupt individuals and destroy liberty, as Tacitus perceived in the transformation of the Roman Republic into the Roman Empire; virtue for classical republicans is a shield against this sort of corruption and a means to preserve the good life one has, rather than a means by which to achieve the good life one does not yet have. Another way to put the distinction between the two traditions is that virtue ethics relies on Aristotle's fundamental distinction between the human-being-as-he-is from the human-being-as-he-should-be, while classical republicanism relies on the Tacitean distinction of the human-being-as-he-is from the human-being-as-he-is-at-risk-of-becoming.\n\nVirtue ethics has a number of contemporary applications.\n\nWithin the field of social ethics, Deirdre McCloskey argues that virtue ethics can provide a basis for a balanced approach to understanding capitalism and capitalist societies.\n\nWithin the field of philosophy of education, James Page argues that virtue ethics can provide a rationale and foundation for peace education.\n\n\nThomas Alured Faunce has argued that whistleblowing in the healthcare setting would be more respected within clinical governance pathways if it had a firmer academic foundation in virtue ethics. He called for whistleblowing to be expressly supported in the UNESCO Universal Declaration on Bioethics and Human Rights. Barry Schwartz argues that \"practical wisdom\" is an antidote to much of the inefficient and inhumane bureaucracy of modern health care systems.\n\n\nIn her book \"Technology and the Virtues\", Shannon Vallor proposed a series of 'technomoral' virtues that people need to cultivate in order to flourish in our socio-technological world: Honesty (Respecting Truth), Self-control (Becoming the Author of Our Desires), Humility (Knowing What We Do Not Know), Justice (Upholding Rightness), Courage (Intelligent Fear and Hope), Empathy (Compassionate Concern for Others), Care (Loving Service to Others), Civility (Making Common Cause), Flexibility (Skillful Adaptation to Change), Perspective (Holding on to the Moral Whole), and Magnanimity (Moral Leadership and Nobility of Spirit).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6771496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6771496", "title": "Vitalism (Jainism)", "text": "Vitalism (Jainism)\n\nVitalism is at the core of Jain philosophy which separates \"Jiva\" (soul or life) from \"Ajiva\" (non-soul). According to Jain cosmology, whole universe is made up of six simple substances and is therefore eternal. These six substances (dravya) are:-\n\n\"Jiva\" or soul is distinguished from the rest five (termed \"Ajiva\") on account of the quality of intelligence with which it is endowed and of which the other substances are devoid.\n\nAccording to Jainism, there are ten vitalities or life-principles:-\n\nThe table below summarizes the vitalities that living beings possess in accordance with their senses.\n\nAccording to major Jain text, Tattvarthsutra: \"The severance of vitalities out of passion is injury\".\n\nBecause life is to be considered sacred and in every living thing, Jains avoid killing any living creature. They are not only vegetarian, but decline to eat vegetables that grow under the ground because each underground stem contains infinite number of vitalities each of that can potentially grow into full-fledged plants.\n\n"}
{"id": "53265623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53265623", "title": "White savior", "text": "White savior\n\nThe term white savior, sometimes combined with savior complex to write white savior complex, refers to a white person who acts to help non-white people, with the help in some contexts perceived to be self-serving. The role is considered a modern-day version of what is expressed in the poem \"The White Man's Burden\" (1899) by Rudyard Kipling. The term has been associated with Africa, and certain characters in film and television have been critiqued as white savior figures. Writer Teju Cole combined the term and \"industrial complex\" (derived from military-industrial complex and similarly applied elsewhere) to coin \"White Savior Industrial Complex\".\n\nAfrica has a history of slavery and of colonization. Damian Zane of BBC News said due to the history, Africans find the \"white savior\" attitude to help them \"deeply patronising and offensive\". Zane said, \"Some argue that aid can be counter-productive, as it means African countries will continue to rely on outside help.\" Bhakti Shringarpure, writing for \"The Guardian\", said, \"Westerners trying to help poor, suffering countries have often been accused of having a 'white saviour complex': a term tied up in colonial history where Europeans descended to 'civilise' the African continent.\" \"The Washington Post\"s Karen Attiah said the white savior framework in Africa \"follows the venerable tradition\" of the novella \"Heart of Darkness\" (1899) by Joseph Conrad and that the tradition included the film \"Machine Gun Preacher\" (2011), the public relations campaign related to the documentary \"Kony 2012\" (2012), and the writings of journalist Nicholas Kristof.\n\nActor and producer Louise Linton wrote a memoir about her gap year in Zambia, \"In Congo's Shadow\", and wrote an article for \"The Telegraph\", \"How my dream gap year in Africa turned into a nightmare\", to promote the book. Michael Schaub of \"Los Angeles Times\" said, \"The reaction to Linton's article was swift and negative, accusing her of using clichés and misrepresentations... Several people have described Linton's memoir as a 'white savior' fantasy.\" Zambians and other Africans negatively criticized the article on social media. Attiah said the popular Instagram account \"BarbieSavior\" was inspired by the backlash to Linton's words. Special Broadcasting Service's Amal Awad said the Instagram account was parodied \"a reckless trend\" of voluntourism (volunteering and touring) in which \"'white saviours' use the less fortunate like props in their social media profiles\". Awad said the interest in volunteering encouraged a business model that leverages a country's existing social issues and charges tourists for volunteering to be a \"saviour\".\n\nBaaz, Gondola, Marijnen, and Verweijen, writing in \"Foreign Affairs\", were critical of the \"white savior complex\" in the 2014 documentary \"Virunga\", which features the Democratic Republic of the Congo's Virunga National Park and the conservation work of its park rangers. They said, \"The movie features endless footage of a park guard hugging and playing with the gorillas, evoking the notion of the 'noble savage' who is close to nature, honest and naive, and dependent on the white man for his salvation. Rarely do we see the Congolese exercising political agency, even though there are numerous civil society activists in the region, often working at great personal risk.\"\n\nIn film, the white savior is a cinematic trope in which a white character rescues people of color from their plight. The white savior is portrayed as messianic and often learns something about themselves in the process of rescuing. The trope reflects how media represents race relations by racializing concepts like morality as identifiable with white people over nonwhite people. White saviors are often male and are sometimes out of place in their own society until they lead minorities or foreigners. \"Screen Saviors: Hollywood Fictions of Whiteness\" labels the stories as fantasies that \"are essentially grandiose, exhibitionistic, and narcissistic\". Types of stories include white travels to \"exotic\" Asian locations, white defense against racism in the American South, or white protagonists having \"racially diverse\" helpers.\n\nStephanie Greco Larson, writing in \"Media & Minorities: The Politics of Race in News and Entertainment\", said \"Diff'rent Strokes\" (1978–1986) and \"Webster\" (1983–1987) were \"shows in which white families adopt black children\" and represented versions of \"the white man's burden theme on television\". Robin R. Means Coleman said, \"In these comedies, Black children are rescued from their dysfunctional families or communities by Whites.\" In particular, \"Diff'rent Strokes\" featured the white millionaire character Philip Drummond. Film historian Donald Bogle said, \"The millionaire Drummond becomes a \"great white father figure\", able to provide the material comforts (as well as the subliminal emotional ones) and the cultural milieu that the Black community supposedly could never hope to match.\" Dustin Tahmahkera writes that Coleman labeled Drummond a \"white savior\" type who uses \"his representational power to save the day by determining a conflict resolution that appeases all parties\" including the indigenous representative Longwalker in the episode \"Burial Ground\". Tahmahkera also said a 1985 episode of \"Punky Brewster\" featured the girl protagonist telling a ghost story about her alter-ego Princess Moon helping \"ancient Indians [who] suddenly appear... as cave dwellers who need a white savior... to defeat an evil spirit and help keep their \"Last of the Dogmen\"-like secret existence intact.\"\n\nLarson said, \"Inner-city schools have been the site of white man's burden dramas on television for decades\" with TV series featuring white savior teachers. Larson identified the following series with such teachers: \"Room 222\" (1969–1974), \"Welcome Back, Kotter\" (1975–1979), \"The White Shadow\" (1978–1981), and \"Boston Public\" (2000–2004). Larson said while \"Room 222\" and \"Boston Public\" also had black teachers that \"challenge the assumption that blacks are inherently inferior... these shows continue to avoid laying blame on social institutions for the status of blacks by showing the success of the individual black teachers.\"\n\nThe TV series \"Iron Fist\" (2017–) features Finn Jones as the superhero Iron Fist. Both the originating comic book character and the TV series actor are white. Prior to the series airing \"The New York Times\" reported that the casting had received criticism for not changing the character to be Asian-American. The newspaper quoted arguments put forward by Keith Chow, editor-in-chief of \"The Nerds of Color\" pop culture blog, \"If you’re going to have all these trappings of Orientalism on top of a white savior trope, why not upend both of those things by casting an Asian-American to play the role?\" Jones denied that Iron Fist would be a white savior figure and said that the series would address critics' concerns.\n\nWriter Teju Cole coined the term \"White Savior Industrial Complex\" following the release of the documentary \"Kony 2012\" in March 2012, extrapolating the term in a seven-part response on Twitter. He later wrote an article for \"The Atlantic\" about the term.\n\nCole's response became a viral phenomenon, and \"The Guardian\"s Bhakti Shringarpure reflected on the supportive Internet response to the \"Kony 2012\" political campaign, \"With the prevalence of campaigns, apps and games calling on us to help without really putting ourselves out, it seems that the white saviour idea is still alive and well – but now, the mode is digital.\" Heather Laine Talley, writing in \"Saving Face: Disfigurement and the Politics of Appearance\", said of the response to Cole coining the term, \"The very idea of the white savior industrial complex was met with both celebration and rage. Cole was alternately described as a truth teller and as a racist.\" Talley summarized Cole's response to his critics, \"Ultimately, Cole implores Western (white) do-gooders to rethink doing good in two ways. First, own up to the motives that drive philanthropic interventions, so that personal catharsis does not subsume the real need of others. Second, consider the structural underpinnings and historical legacies that together sustain the very infrastructure of the problems that captivate our activist hearts.\"\n\nTim Engles, writing in \"Rhetorics of Whiteness: Postracial Hauntings in Popular Culture, Social Media, and Education\", concurred with Cole's assessment, \"The lack of real-world efficacy of their efforts, and the apparent unwillingness of most to go any further than such limited and self-aggrandizing steps, suggests that mere validation of white racial privilege was indeed the most significant outcome.\"\n\nThe removal of Malala Yousafzai from Pakistan and her medical treatment in the West has been described as an example of the \"white savior complex\". The arguments behind this were the Western media and politicians quick reaction to the incident, portraying it as their rescue of a woman from her own savage culture and people. This also allegedly was the West's justification for invading and bombing the region to save savage people from their own kind, while killing more innocent people like Malala than the Taliban has.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1447100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1447100", "title": "Wristband", "text": "Wristband\n\nWristbands are encircling strips worn on the wrist or lower forearm. The term can be used to refer to a bracelet-like band, similar to that of a wristwatch, to the cuff or other part of a sleeve that covers the wrist, or to decorative or functional bands worn on the wrist for many different reasons. Wristbands are often worn and used similarly to event passes such as lanyards to information or allow people entry to events. These wristbands are made from loops of plastic that are placed around the wrist and are used for identification purposes (demonstrating the wearer's authorization to be at a venue, for example).\n\nAnother type of wristband is the sweatband; usually made of a towel-like terrycloth material. These are usually used to wipe sweat from the forehead during sport but have been known to be used as a badge or fashion statement. A practice common in mid-1980s punk subculture was to cut the top off of a sock and fashion the elastic into this type of wristband.\n\nIn the early-to-mid-2000s (decade), bracelets often made of silicone became popular. They are worn to demonstrate the wearer's support of a cause or charitable organization, similar to awareness ribbons. Such wristbands are sometimes called awareness bracelets to distinguish them from other types of wristbands. In early 2007 they became an increasingly popular item being sold as merchandise at concerts & sporting events worldwide. The wristbands bearing official logos or trademarks enabled the seller to offer a low price point merchandise option to fans. Silicone wristbands may also be called gel wristbands, jelly wristbands, rubber wristbands and fundraising wristbands. All of these wristbands are made from the same silicone material.\n\nUV Ultra Violet Sensitive silicone wristbands appear clear/white when out of UV light, but when exposed to ultra violet light such as sunlight the wristbands' color changes to blue or fuchsia. These bands can be used as reminders for people to apply sunscreen or stay in the shade on hot summer days.\n\nHospital wristbands are a commonly used safety device for identifying patients undergoing medical care (see patient safety and medical identification tag). Available in a variety of sizes to accommodate patients as small as newborns and as large as obese adults, hospital wristbands can be handwritten, embossed, laser-printed or thermal-imaged with names, pictures, medical record numbers, barcodes and other personal identifiers.\n\nLaser printing and thermal imaging—the most advanced technologies for personalizing hospital wristbands—support fonts, colors and barcodes for improved patient safety through electronic patient and medication tracking. Handwritten and embossed wristbands remain in widespread use, however, despite findings on compromised safety reported in 2007. The National Patient Safety Agency (NPSA) found that as many as 2,900 patients each year were receiving the wrong medical care because of the hospital staff's inability to read damaged or otherwise illegible patient information on handwritten and embossed wristbands.\n\nColored wristbands are often given to people attending events such as music festivals and gigs, as an access control measure. Counterfeit wristbands are increasingly common.\n\nSilicone Wristbands (some times referred to as Gel bracelets) are popular for fundraising or showing support for a cause. Custom wristbands are usually created by an event organizer and given out or sold to others interested in the event or supporting the cause.\n\nSome people keep the wristbands as souvenirs or wear the wristbands after the event to show what events they went to.\n\nFurther uses for the wristband in event ticketing at music festivals and sporting events may include an NFC (near field communication) chip that would allow contactless payment at the concessions and turnstiles. Wristbands are ideal to use for dark environments such as night clubs and bars or outdoor venues where patrons can be afar such as festivals and theme parks. \n\nIn addition these styles of colored wristbands are used with the above listed hospital patient bands to serve as an extra safety reminder and alert for Allergies. They will have a standard color and will have written labeling such as \"Fall Risks\"(which may come from medical conditions, injuries and/or medications used with the possibility of all of the above causing the increased safety risk warning), \"Allergies\"(to cover allergic reactions to vast to list per band type risks), \"Latex Allergies\"( to make sure medical safety gloves are not made of latex which is an immediate risk more than other allergies), amongst several other important cautions that would protect the patient by preventing Iatrogenic mistakes, reducing additional medical complications.\n\n"}
{"id": "32095727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32095727", "title": "Yoke (unit of measurement)", "text": "Yoke (unit of measurement)\n\nA yoke was a unit of land measurement used in Kent in England at the time of the Domesday Book for tax purposes. It was equal to a quarter of a sulung. A sulung was the amount of land which could be ploughed by 4 ox-pairs (or approximately 2 hides), therefore a yoke was a pair of oxen, representing the amount of land that could be cultivated by an ox pair. A yoke also described the device used to harness two oxen together (see photo).\nIn early Saxon times nearly all the Weald of Kent, the land between the chalk ridges of the North and South Downs, was covered in ancient broadleaf forest but there are indications that much of what is now Penshurst had been cultivated clearings since Roman days. The Romans left no tangible relics although we have a record of their measurement for land in the \"Yokes\" of Chested, Vexour, Chafford etc. The yoke is the old Roman \"jugerum\", about 25 ares or 0.625 acres. This word has survived only in Kent. One theory is that the Jutes conquered Kent, whereas the Angles and Saxons (c 450 AD) settled over the remainder of England. In these \"yokes\" along the banks of the river Medway crops such as corn would have been cultivated.\n\nA \"joch\" is a traditional unit of area in German speaking countries, especially in Austria. One \"joch\" is the area of a square 40 \"klafters\" (about 83 yards) on a side. This comes to 0.5755 hectares or about 1.422 acres. The plural is \"Joche\". \"Joch\" is also the word for a yoke in German, so this unit represents an area that could be ploughed in a day by a yoke of oxen. In what is now the Czech Republic this unit was known as the \"jitro\"; in Croatia it is the \"jutro\".\n\nThere are references to the yoke or \"jugum\" in Kentish medieval records and in the Domesday survey. The rental record of Gillingham dated 1477 reveals that the yoke was a fiscal land division for purposes of rents and services, and had its own privileges. Its size was clearly related to its fertility and position. For example, an Otford rental of c.1425 lists a full yoke on the fertile soil of the valley as 120 acres, a figure to which many of these yokes approximate, but on the poor clay soils on the Downs one yoke is 231 acres.\n\n"}
