{"id": "3410311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3410311", "title": "Acknowledgment (creative arts and sciences)", "text": "Acknowledgment (creative arts and sciences)\n\nIn the creative arts and scientific literature, an acknowledgement (also spelled acknowledgment in American and Canadian English) is an expression of a gratitude for assistance in creating an original work.\n\nReceiving credit by way of acknowledgement rather than authorship indicates that the person or organization did not have a direct hand in producing the work in question, but may have contributed funding, criticism, or encouragement to the author(s). Various schemes exist for classifying acknowledgements; Cronin et al. give the following six categories:\n\nApart from citation, which is not usually considered to be an acknowledgement, acknowledgement of conceptual support is widely considered to be the most important for identifying intellectual debt. Some acknowledgements of financial support, on the other hand, may simply be legal formalities imposed by the granting institution. Occasionally, bits of science humor can also be found in acknowledgements.\n\nThere have been some attempts to extract bibliometric indices from the acknowledgments section (also called \"acknowledgments paratext\") of research papers in order to evaluate the impact of the acknowledged individuals, sponsors and funding agencies.\n\nThe spelling \"acknowledgement\" is used in British English, Australian English, and other English-speaking areas outside North America, whereas the spelling \"acknowledgment\" (without the \"e\" after the \"g\") is often used in American English and Canadian English.\n\n"}
{"id": "11567616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11567616", "title": "Architectural education in the United Kingdom", "text": "Architectural education in the United Kingdom\n\nAfter nearly a century of endeavour and negotiation which had been led by the Royal Institute of British Architects, a statutory Board of Architectural Education was formed under the Architects (Registration) Act, 1931. For the purposes of constituting the Board of Architectural Education the Act included a list of Schools of Architecture in the United Kingdom. The statutory Board was abolished in the 1990s, and when the Architects Act 1997 repealed the 1931 Act the statutory list of Schools of Architecture went with it.\n\nThe 1931 Act had come to be passed at the end of a century of development in educational provision and in the method of qualifying by examination. The 1997 Act was passed in the period after the United Kingdom had become one of the Member States of the European Economic Community, later named the European Union, an organization which, among other things, has required Member States to remove obstacles to the freedom of movement and establishment in respect of professional practice, employment, trade and business within the territories of the Union.\n\nThe method of qualifying by passing an examination which the RIBA had recognized as allowing exemption continued in the period when the 1931 Act was in force, and remained available under the later legislation.\n\nBy a further development, from 2007 a Chartered Member of the RIBA may apply for the registration of a Chartered Practice in respect of a business providing architectural services and comprising one or more Chartered Members meeting criteria for, and operating in accordance with, a prescribed scheme.\n\nThe historian will find some source material in the Archive which the RIBA has made accessible at the Victoria and Albert Museum, and in books, periodicals and other publications of the period which have been deposited and retained in the British Architectural Library (of the RIBA).\nAnother contemporaneous source of information, upon which the following is largely based, is provided by two editions of the Encyclopædia Britannica, the eleventh of 1910 and the fourteenth of 1929. These editions contain articles which conveniently indicate how examination, as a method of gaining recognition for the attainment of the specialist knowledge and skill required of a professional practitioner, had grown and had been thought of in the period leading up to the passing of the 1931 Act.\n\nThe background to the developments in education and the method of attaining professional qualification had been the unprecedented development of industrial and commercial activity in the United Kingdom and other countries in the course of the nineteenth century. This, and the impact on the working and living conditions of the populations affected, had been making demands for the building of factories, warehouses, offices, educational establishments, hospitals, housing, places of recreation and entertainment and places for religious and other purposes. With that came demands upon architectural practitioners for designs for buildings of all kinds, qualities and standards, for the supervision of the construction of works, and in some cases for making planning schemes for area development or redevelopment, of greater or lesser extent; sometimes collaborating with other branches of the construction professions, notably surveyors, civil engineers and, as the period progressed, structural engineers, and those engaged in\nmechanical engineering and electrical engineering. The demand for architectural services, in respect of both traditional and newer materials and techniques, was coming from public bodies, commercial and industrial enterprises, private owners or investors, philanthropists, benefactors and others.\n\nAs a result, institutional arrangements for architectural education became increasingly systematic, in respect of examinations for formal qualifications, and making qualifications a condition for granting some other form of distinguishing style or title (such as Fellow, Associate or Licentiate of a professional body), or for the right or expectation to be able to practise as an architect, on one's own account or as a partner or as an assistant in another's office.\n\nA leading participant in the development of those institutional arrangements was the society which had been formed in London in the 1830s and had petitioned for, and in 1837 had been granted, a charter of incorporation. This society was later granted the name Royal Institute of British Architects, and is for convenience referred to as the RIBA.\n\nThe index of the eleventh edition offers users very little more about architectural education than a few words in an article on Examinations generally, which was attributed in part to Paul George Konody, Art Critic of \"The Observer\" and the \"Daily Mail\", formerly Editor of \"The Artist and Journal of Home Culture\", author of \"the Art of Walter Crane\"; \"Velázquez, Life and Work\"; etc. (so described at the page of Wikisource for Paul George Konody) and in part to Arthur Watson, Secretary in the Academic Department of the University of London. It began with the paragraph:\n\nThere followed eight sections beginning with History and ending with a critical appraisal headed \"The Object and Efficiency of Examinations, and their Indirect Effects\". The second section was on Professional Examinations, followed by others on School-leaving Examinations, mentioning the \"accrediting\" system in the United States started by the University of Michigan in 1871; Methods of Examination: Written, Oral, Thesis and Practical; Competitive Examinations; The Organization and Conduct of Examinations; and Marking, Classification and Errors of Detail.\n\nThe section on History began as follows:\n\nAfter a survey of the development of examination practice in the universities of western Europe up to the early 20c., the next section of professional examinations began with the remark \"University examinations for degrees having ceased to be used as technical tests of teaching capacity, new examinations have been devised for this purpose\". For examinations in Medicine, the article referred the reader to the article on Medical Education, and this section concluded with a single paragraph headed Other Professions, stating that a system of professional examinations carried on by other professional bodies, in some cases with legal sanction, was developed in England during the nineteenth century; and, in a list of subjects described as \"the most important\" mentioned \"architecture (Royal Institute of British Architects )\", along with: accountancy, actuarial work, music, pharmacy, plumbing, surveying, veterinary medicine, technical subjects, e.g. cotton-spinning, dyeing, motor manufacturing, commercial subjects, shorthand and engineering (civil, mechanical and electrical).\n\nPublication of the fourteenth edition of the Encyclopædia Britannica in 1929 happened shortly before the Board of Architectural Education was constituted under the Act of 1931. In it there was an article three pages long on Architectural Education, attributed to Lionel Bailey Budden, MA, ARIBA, Associate Professor of Architecture in the University of Liverpool. The opening sentence was:\n\nThat could be compared with the words of the charter which had been granted to the RIBA in 1837, in which the purpose of the Institute was described as:\n\nWhen the present supplemental charter was granted in 1971, part of the first charter was revoked but the words quoted were retained.\n\nIn the meantime Professor Budden's article of 1929 included the following:\n\nThe article then considered: Italy, France, Great Britain and Dominions, Other European Countries, United States, and Mexico. It mentioned that the largest school of architecture in England was that of the Architectural Association (London) and the next that of Liverpool University, and explained the part played by the RIBA:\n\nSchools of architecture which were then recognized for exemption from the RIBA final examination (except in the subject of \"Professional Practice\") were named as:\n\nSchools in certain institutions which were then recognized for exemption from the RIBA intermediate examination were named as:\n\nIt was mentioned that in both classes the maintenance of the requisite standard was assured by the periodic inspection of the visiting board, appointed by the RIBA board of architectural education, which reported to the institute on the work of the various schools granted or applying for exemption.\n\nThe system continued after the statutory Board of Architectural Education had been constituted, in connection with the provision in the Architects (Registration) Act, 1931 making it the duty of the Board to recommend \"the recognition of any examinations in architecture the passing of which ought, in the opinion of the Board, to qualify persons for registration\" under the Act (subsection 5(2)(a)).\n\nConsonant with Professor Budden's remarks at that time, the objects of the RIBA are declared in its charter to be:\n\nand the next paragraph in the charter expresses the power of the RIBA to grant diplomas, certificates or other forms of recognition.\n\nThe former division of the membership of the RIBA into the two classes of Fellows and Associates ceased under the supplemental charter and byelaws of 1971, but the method of qualifying by passing an examination which the RIBA has recognized as allowing exemption remains available. To be eligible for election to the now undivided class of Chartered Members a candidate is still required to have undertaken courses of study and passed examinations which have been prescribed or recognized by the Council, or to be able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Council having had a proper training in architecture.\n\nAs the field in which architecture is practised has continued to change, so has the RIBA Chartered Membership been keeping pace. In recent years a Byelaw was introduced to the effect that practising members are responsible for undertaking continuing professional development, defined in the Byelaws as:\n\nA further and more recent development has been the passing of a Byelaw allowing a Chartered Member to apply for the registration of a Chartered Practice, defined in the Byelaws as:\n\nProfessor Budden's article in the fourteenth edition of the Encyclopædia Britannica (1929) was published shortly before the passing of the Architects (Registration) Act, 1931 of the Architects (Registration) Acts, 1931 to 1938. His School, Liverpool, was one of those listed in the Act for the purpose of constituting the statutory Board of Architectural Education. When he contributed the article he was Associate Professor in Architecture in the Liverpool University School of Architecture, becoming Roscoe Professor from 1933. He retired in 1952. He had entered the School in 1905, graduated BA in 1909 and MA in 1910, teaching there from 1911 and becoming Associate Professor in 1924. He had been University of Liverpool travelling Scholar in Architecture in 1909, and a student at the British School at Athens 1909-1912. He was first an Associate of the Royal Institute of British Architects (ARIBA), later becoming a Fellow (FRIBA). His architectural work included extensions to Liverpool University Students’ Union.\n\nFor further details of the development, in that period, of the policy of the RIBA for architectural education and qualification see 'Statutory Registration – chronology of key events' in Architects Registration in the United Kingdom, and for opposition to the system of registration which was proposed and promoted by successive Bills in Parliament see William H. White, Thomas Graham Jackson and John Alfred Gotch.\n\n"}
{"id": "29581013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29581013", "title": "Assessment centre", "text": "Assessment centre\n\nAn assessment center is a process where candidates are examined to determine their suitability for specific types of employment, especially management or military command. The candidates' personality and aptitudes are determined by techniques including interviews, group exercises, presentations, examinations and psychometric testing.\n\nAn early example of assessment is the story of Gideon selecting the most suitable Israelite warriors:\n\nIn modern times, the German army introduced assessment techniques for selecting its officers in the 1930s. Psychologist was appointed to head the army's laboratory and introduced leadership tests. These were terminated in 1941 after too many favoured candidates had failed them.\n\nAssessment centres were created in World War II to select officers and are still commonly used in military recruitment today. Examples include the Admiralty Interview Board of the Royal Navy and the War Office Selection Board of the British Army.\nAfter World War 2, The OSS type of assessment center was essentially abandoned in The United States except for some internal use in intelligence gathering operations by the CIA. The British Civil Service Selection Board and Australians identified participants still used it for selection on their military college. Also, south Africans used the technique to identify supervisors in gold mines.\nAssessment centers specifically applied for industrial usage can be traced back to the early 1950s and the pioneering work of Robert K Greenleaf and Douglas W. Bray of the American Telephone & Telegraph Company (AT&T). Douglas W. Bray as a director of human resources at AT&T, directed a study that lasted over 20 years and followed the careers of young business managers as they progressed up the telephone company rankings. This study showed that the assessment center method could successfully predict organizational achievement and was later implemented throughout AT&T and later on adopted by many other companies: IBM, Standard Oil (Ohio) and Sears for example.\n\nIn 1975, the first guidelines on the use of assessment centers was created as a statement of the considerations believed to be most important for all users of the assessment center method. The guidelines ensure the integrity of the process, the validity of the data, qualifications of assessors, and the rights of the participants. The guidelines have since been revised several times to reflect current legality issues, global insights, and technological advances in the field. The most current version of the Guidelines and Ethical Considerations for Assessment Center Operations was endorsed by the 38th International Congress on Assessment Methods in Alexandria, Virginia in October 2014.\nToday, The ACM is used by organizations all over the world in both private and public sectors to better select of employees and identifying their development in different areas. \n\nAT&T created a building for recruitment of staff in the 1950s. This was called The Assessment Centre and was influential on subsequent personnel methods in other businesses.\n\nOther companies use this method to recruit for their graduate programmes by assessing the personality and intellect of potential employees who have recently graduated from university and have nil or limited work history. The big four accountancy firms conduct assessment centre days to recruit their trainees. 68% of employers in the UK and USA now use some form of assessment centre as part of their recruitment/promotion process. In recent years companies have been set up to support assessment centre coaching.\n\nAssessment center is not just a building for assessing a job candidate. it is a process of evaluation of behaviour based on multiple evaluation including: job related simulations, interviews and/or psychological test \n\nThe ultimate reason for having an assessment centre in any organization is to gather all relevant information under a standardized conditions about an individual’s capabilities to perform a given task. Assessment centers are often the method of choice for selecting senior leaders in government and municipal jobs, including police chief and fire captains.\n\nDuring the process of assessing candidates, series of exercises that are designed to simulate the condition of a given job are given to the candidate to do. This help the assessor to determined if the candidate possesses the necessary skill and behaviour needed for the job.\n\nThe assessment center method provides a sort of wide-ranging, multidimensional assessment that has a strong record of both research significance and practical effectiveness to be accepted by participants and decision-makers alike. \nIn essence, the purpose of assessment centre is to examine the skills and psychological state of an individual in order to determine his or her performance.\n"}
{"id": "41773071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41773071", "title": "Bear-leader (guide)", "text": "Bear-leader (guide)\n\nIn the 18th and 19th centuries, a bear-leader was a colloquialism for a man who escorted young men of rank or wealth on their travels, such as young gentlemen on the Grand Tour. The role of bear-leader blended elements of tutor, guardian, chaperon and companion. A late example in literature can be seen in the ambitious Oxford tutor hired to keep an increasingly alcoholic young man out of harm's way – and out of the way – in \"Brideshead Revisited\".\n\n"}
{"id": "33490819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33490819", "title": "Bleak Night", "text": "Bleak Night\n\nBleak Night (; lit. \"The Lookout\") is a 2010 South Korean coming-of-age drama film written and directed by Yoon Sung-hyun. The film is about a father's search for answers following his son's death, and the shifting dynamics at play among three high-school friends. A Korean Academy of Film Arts graduation project by Yoon Sung-hyun, it received rave reviews and won several Best New Actor awards for Lee Je-hoon, as well as Best New Director for Yoon at the Grand Bell Awards and Busan Film Critics Awards.\n\nStill mystified by his son's death, the father (Jo Sung-ha) of high school student Ki-tae (Lee Je-hoon) tries to track down his two best friends, classmates Hee-joon (Park Jung-min) and Dong-yoon (Seo Jun-young), to try to find an explanation. Through Ki-tae's classmate Jae-ho, the father meets Hee-joon, who says he cannot help as he moved schools \"weeks before what happened to Ki-tae.\" Afterwards, Hee-joon berates Jae-ho for giving his phone number to Ki-tae's father but Jae-ho tells him that Ki-tae \"went crazy\" after he moved away. Hee-joon manages to trace Dong-yoon and urges him to contact Ki-tae's father and provide some answers. In parallel, flashbacks to the time gradually reveal what really happened, starting with Ki-tae's needling and bullying of Hee-joon and the latter's response.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43212982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43212982", "title": "Carolyn McCaskill", "text": "Carolyn McCaskill\n\nCarolyn McCaskill is a deaf, African American, counselor and professor. She has been teaching at Gallaudet University since 1996, and currently holds the position of Associate Professor in the ASL and Deaf Studies Department.\n\nPh.D., Gallaudet University, Special Education Administration & Supervision (2005)\nM.A., Counseling of the Deaf (1979)\nB.A., Psychology-Social Work (1977)\n\nPrior to college, McCaskill attended and graduated of the Alabama School for the Deaf in Talladega, Alabama.\n\nMcCaskill served as a counselor at the Model Secondary School for the Deaf, at the Houston Community College System, and as a career counselor at the Gallaudet University. She was the Coordinator of Minority Achievement and Multicultural Program for Pre-college Programs at Gallaudet University. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "42051242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42051242", "title": "Certificate of Primary Education", "text": "Certificate of Primary Education\n\nThe Certificate of Primary Education is an academic qualification in Mauritius awarded upon the completion of primary school. The qualification is awarded upon earning passing marks on the primary school exams administered by the Mauritius Examinations Syndicate. Students who fully earn the qualification may then progress onto secondary school study.\n\nCertificate of Primary Education candidates may take the following subjects:\n\n\n\nStudents who are awarded the CPE upon successful completion of primary school may advance onto secondary colleges, where they may begin lower secondary education. The highest achieving students generally progress onto national colleges. Lower secondary education concludes with the awarding of the Form III Certificate. Students who fail the CPE exams are allowed one single opportunity to re-sit the exams. \n\nIf students fail the CPE exams, or have not received the CPE by age 13, they may then progress onto the Pre-vocational Certificate. As education is compulsory until age 16, this allows those who were not able to complete their studies in the academic stream to transition onto the vocational stream and continue their formal education.\n\n"}
{"id": "26440250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26440250", "title": "Cyber Coach", "text": "Cyber Coach\n\nCyber Coach is a Virtual Dance Instructor and Dance Mat system created by Quick Controls Ltd of Bolton, UK. \n\nThe system comprises a touch screen controller, a projector, sound system and some dance pads. \n\nThe dance pads are wireless and can be used to play one of several games including: Space Blaster, Disco Disco, Nimbler Numbers and Wiggle.\n\nThe system was shortlisted for a BETT Award in 2009 and won a National Business Award for Innovation in 2009.\n\nLancashire Grid for Learning undertook a comprehensive review of the system in 2009 and endorsed the system to their schools.\n\nA version for primary schools called \"Cyber Coach Smart\" has been launched.\n\nIn 2017, Cyber Coach and Manchester Metropolitan University launched Emile Education\n"}
{"id": "55567305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55567305", "title": "Cynthia B. Lee", "text": "Cynthia B. Lee\n\nCynthia Bailey Lee is a lecturer in Computer Science at Stanford University from Palo Alto, California. Her research interests are in computer science pedagogy and the flipped classroom approach. She has advocated for the greater inclusion of women and minorities in computer science, and is also known for promoting conversations about faith, ethics, and tech culture.\n\nLee received her BS in 2001 and MS in 2004 in Computer Science from University of California, San Diego (UC San Diego). Lee studied big data applications of parallel computing and high-performance distributed computing for her graduate studies also at UC San Diego, where she graduated with her PhD in 2009. Her advisor was Allan Snavely. She spent her summers from 1996 to 1998 as an intern for NASA Ames, and worked with a search and document engine and management startup called Mohomine from 1999 to 2002. In March 2012, Lee and Beth Simon started an instructional website called Peer Instruction for Computer Science, which provides support for Computer Science instructors who want to use Flipped classroom ideas.\n\nLee is outspoken about issues that face women and minorities in technology. She wrote guidelines for other instructors in her department to help them foster a more inclusive community, including using gender-neutral language and examples. She encouraged instructors to give additional encouragement and attention to women and minorities. In the reaction to the controversial Google memo, Lee \"ladysplained\" why the memo's rhetoric was offensive to her in an article on Vox.\n\nLee is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS) and spoke at a Stanford LDS convocation, exhorting students to remember the needs of people outside of their work meetings, and used Esther as an example of someone who stood up for people who had less power than she did. She hosted a coding workshop for young women and girls in her LDS Stake.\n\nLee is married with two children.\n\n"}
{"id": "15209059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15209059", "title": "Daniel Hecht", "text": "Daniel Hecht\n\nDaniel Hecht is an American author who has written seven novels: \"Skull Session\" (1997), \"The Babel Effect\" (2000), \"Puppets\" (2001); the Cree Black series which includes \"City of Masks\" (2002), \"Land of Echoes\" (2004), and \"Bones of the Barbary Coast\" (2006); and \"On Brassard's Farm\" (2018). His novels have been published in 12 languages and 75 editions throughout the world, including best-sellers in the United States, England, Holland, and Israel.\n\nBorn in Croton Falls, New York, Hecht has lived in New York, the Philippines, Wisconsin, Washington DC, Virginia, Illinois, California, and Vermont. \n\nHecht began playing classical guitar in 1965, studying under John Mavreas at the North Shore Conservatory in Winnetka, Illinois, and James Yoghourtjian at the Wisconsin College Conservatory. After studying music theory and composition at the University of Wisconsin, he played acoustic 6 and 12 string guitar and published three records: \"Guitar\" (1973), \"Fireheart-Fireriver\" (1977), released on Dragon's Egg Records, and \"Willow\" (1980), released on Windham Hill. “Willow” was also released in Europe, and Hecht’s individual compositions appear on compilation albums and videos. He performed over 300 concerts throughout the United States, Europe, and China, both solo and with other musicians including Alex deGrassi, Michael Hedges, George Winston, Jonathan Winter, and John Fahey. Significant venues include Carnegie Recital Hall (1969 and 1982), Great American Music Hall, Shanghai Conservatory, Beijing Conservatory, Faneuil Hall, and others.\n\nHecht is also an organizational development consultant active in the arts, environmental technology, and social services. He served as board president of the Pyralisk Arts Center, in Montpelier, Vermont, from 1990 to 2003; he then served as executive director of Vermont Environmental Consortium (VEC), a statewide association of environmental science and technology firms, educational institutions, public agencies, and non-profit organizations based at Norwich University.\n\nAs director of VEC, he was commissioned by the Vermont Agency of Agriculture to produce \"The Farm Energy Handbook,\" which he edited and co-wrote with 20 renewable energy and energy efficiency/conservation experts. He also produced and scripted \"The Green Makeover Video,\" a 45-minute video showing small businesses how to implement energy-efficiency and other green business practices, in collaboration with the Vermont Department of Public Service, Vermont Small Business Development Center, Efficiency Vermont, and other partners. His weekly column, \"The Green Grapevine,\" featuring profiles of Vermont green enterprises and current issues and developments in emerging green technologies, ran in five Vermont daily newspapers in 2006 - 2008.\n\nFrom 2008 to 2011, he procured funding for and served as project manager for a study of Vermont's potential to produce energy from post-consumer food waste, funded by a $600,000 grant from the US Department of Energy. Conducted in partnership with Central Vermont Solid Waste Management District and Vermont Technical College, the study led to the construction in 2013 of a $3.5 million food-waste and manure biodigester sited at Vermont Tech campus. For two years, starting in 2010, he directed Reach Service Exchange Network, a $1 million pilot program, funded by the US Administration on Aging, to deliver services to seniors and people with disabilities through a mutual exchange system.\n\nHecht has taught literature and writing courses at the University of Iowa, Community College of Vermont, and Johnson State College. Since 2010, he has been a faculty member in the Professional Writing Program at Champlain College, in Burlington, Vermont, teaching Advanced Fiction Writing, Grant Writing, and Creative Writing.\n\n"}
{"id": "1446057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1446057", "title": "Education in Austria", "text": "Education in Austria\n\nThe Republic of Austria has a free and public school system, and nine years of education are mandatory. Schools offer a series of vocational-technical and university preparatory tracks involving one to four additional years of education beyond the minimum mandatory level. The legal basis for primary and secondary education in Austria is the School Act of 1962. But in 1963 it went back to the way it was. But again In 1999 it finally changed again. \nThe federal Ministry of Education is responsible for funding and supervising primary, secondary, and, since 2000, also tertiary education. Primary and secondary education is administered on the state level by the authorities of the respective states.\n\nFederal legislation played a prominent role in the education system, and laws dealing with education effectively have a de facto constitutional status because, like Austrian constitutional law, they can only be passed or amended by a two-thirds majority in parliament.\n\nIt is mandatory for pupils in Austria to complete nine years of school, four years in elementary school (Volksschule) and four years in a school for lower secondary education (Hauptschule/ Neue Mittelschule) or grammar school (Gymnasium). Students who want to do an apprenticeship additionally need to go to a polytechnic institute (Polytechnische Schule) for a year. After finding an apprentice position they have to attend vocational school (Berufsschule) for three years: this can be done either in block release (5 days a week for about four months) or day release (once a week in the same stretch of time as a normal school). On the days you are at school you don't have to go to work. At the end of those three years they have to take an exam, the final apprenticeship examination (Lehrabschlussprüfung).\n\nPupils who want to get a degree have to complete four to five years at an institution of higher education (Höhere Schule) or a vocational school with higher education entrance qualification (Berufsbildende Höhere Schule). Most of these schools require an entrance exam or demand high marks on your last school certificate. The final exam for either one of those higher education institutions is the matriculation (Matura). After that you are free to go to university, though some subjects may require additional exams (e.g. medicine).\n\nPrivate schools that provide primary and secondary education and some teacher training are run mainly, but by no means exclusively, by the Roman Catholic Church and account for approximately 10% of the 6,800 schools and 120,000 teachers. Roman Catholic schools have a reputation for more discipline and rigor than public institutions, and some are considered elite institutions. Because there is no tradition of private university education in Austria, the state has a virtual monopoly on higher education. This has been changing slowly in recent years as private universities become more commonplace.\n\nBefore 1774, education in Austria was a task of the church: convent schools were therefore the only educational establishments, and school fees were charged. This is why education was only accessible to those who had the means to pay for it, whereas poorer people remained illiterate.\n\nMandatory primary education was introduced by Empress Maria Theresa of Austria (1740–1780), mandating in 1775 that all children of both sexes from the ages of six to twelve had to attend school. Furthermore, textbooks were unified and teacher education was regulated. Even though schooling became compulsory for both girls and boys for a time period of six years, girls were not allowed to attend professional or secondary schools. The Austrian literacy rate became one of the highest in the Habsburg Empire during the beginning of the 19th century due to this development. The first secondary school for girls was opened in 1868, whilst the first \"gymnasium\" for girls was founded in 1892. From 1872 girls were also allowed to graduate, yet remained excluded from universities. Women were admitted to the Philosophical Faculty in 1897. In 1900 they were also admitted to the Faculty of Medicine. It was only in 1919 that women were admitted to the Faculty of Law, in 1923 to the Faculty of Protestant Theology, and 1946 to the Faculty of Catholic Theology. In 1910 girls were admitted to boys‘ gymnasiums, but they were neither allowed to participate actively in class, nor to take part in exams.\n\nThe history of the Austrian education system after World War II may be characterised as an attempt to transform higher education from a traditional entitlement of the upper social classes to more equal access for all social classes. Before the School Act of 1962, Austria had a “two-track” education system. After four years of compulsory primary education from the ages of six to ten in the elementary school, or Volksschule (pl., Volksschulen), children and their parents had to choose between the compulsory secondary level for eleven- to fourteen-year-olds called the middle school, or Hauptschule (pl., Hauptschulen), or the first four years of an eight-year university preparatory track at higher schools of general education (Allgemeinbildende Höhere Schulen, or AHS). An AHS, also known as a gymnasium, is an institution providing different fields of specialization that grant the diploma (Reifeprüfung or Matura) needed to enter university. (Other than \"Berufsbildende Höhere Schulen\", which also allow access to university, they do not provide graduates with any specific skill immediately useful on the labour market, but concentrate on general education in the humanities, science and languages).\n\nBefore the 1962 reform, the great majority of children, more than 90%, attended the compulsory Hauptschule, where they were divided according to their performance in elementary school into two groups: an “A group,” which was directed toward two- to four-year vocational-technical training schools after graduation from the Hauptschule; and a “B group,” which was required to complete one additional year of compulsory education before entrance into apprenticeship programs or the work force. The remaining elementary-school graduates—less than 10%—enrolled in the AHS at age eleven. Children attending these university-track schools also had to choose a specific course of study.\n\nThe rigidity of the two-track system required that the most important educational decision in a child’s life—with all of the implications it had for the future—be made at the age of ten. The decision depended to a great extent on the parents’ background, income, and social status. Children from agricultural backgrounds or of urban working-class parents generally attended the Volkschule and the Hauptschule and then entered the work force. Children having lower-middle-class backgrounds frequently received vocational-technical training after the Hauptschule, while children from the upper-middle and upper classes, boys in particular, attended the AHS, which gave them access to university-level education.\n\nThe early selection process meant that children of the largest segment of the population, farmers and workers, were grossly under-represented at higher schools and universities, whereas the children of a relatively small segment of the population, those who had attended higher schools or the universities, were over-represented. Consequently, the education system tended to reproduce or to reinforce traditional social structures instead of being a vehicle of opportunity or social mobility.\n\nThe Act of 1962 and subsequent amendments require that all state-funded schools be open to children regardless of birth, gender, race, status, class, language, or religion. The law also attempts to introduce more flexibility into the traditional two-track system and to provide students with a greater degree of latitude within it so that educational (and hence career) decisions can be made at an older age. Although the primary and secondary school system continues to be fundamentally based on the two-track idea, after a series of reforms in the 1970s and 1980s, ten- to fourteen-year-olds are no longer streamed into A and B groups in the Hauptschule. Graduates of this kind of school also have the opportunity to cross over into certain branches of the AHS track at the age of fourteen or to attend a series of different “higher vocational-technical schools” (Berufsbildende Höhere Schulen and Höhere Technische Lehranstalten), which have five-year programs of specialisation in various branches of technology (HTL = \"Höhere Technische Lehranstalt\") and in business and commerce (HAK = \"Handelsakademie\"). Other than the less prestigious three-year Berufsbildende Mittlere Schulen, those schools allow graduates to move on to university.\n\nShifts in enrolment patterns reflect these changes in the school system. In the mid-1960s, less than 10% of all students finished the university preparatory AHS track, and more than 66% of them were male. By the early 1990s, more than 30% of all students finished the AHS track and just above 50% of them were female. Furthermore, a second educational path was developed that permitted some students without a diploma from the university-track AHS to enrol in a university.\n\nAs a general rule, the quality of Hauptschule education is high, especially in rural areas and small communities, where the schools have maintained their traditional social importance and where attendance at an AHS involves commuting considerable distances, or, for the inhabitants of more remote areas, boarding. In urban centres with a full spectrum of educational opportunities, the Hauptschule has become less popular, and parents who would not necessarily have enrolled their children in an AHS a few years ago have begun doing so. The increased enrolments have overburdened the AHS and created a shortage of students at the Hauptschulen and at vocational-technical schools.\n\nIn some areas, this trend has been strengthened by the number of children of foreign workers in the compulsory schools. In 1991, for example, almost 30% of all school-age children in Vienna were children of foreign-born workers, whose mother-tongue was not German. In some districts of the city, these children exceeded 70%. Although the children of long-term foreign workers frequently speak German well, the numbers of classes in which students with inadequate mastery of German are over-represented has overburdened the Hauptschule system and made it a less desirable alternative than it used to in the past. Therefore, special remedial and intercultural programs are being developed so that the compulsory school system in Austria can continue to fulfil its educational and social roles.\n\nThe SPÖ has continued to press for further reforms of the school system. It argued for an abolition of the two-track system for ten- to fourteen-year-olds and for combining the Hauptschule and the first four years of the AHS into a new comprehensive middle school. , however, this alternative has been limited to a number of experimental schools. Other political parties, the Austrian People's Party in particular, remain firmly in favour of the current system, claiming that a comprehensive middle school could not accommodate for different levels of capability and talent. They fear a general \"dumbing down\" of secondary education as a result. Owing to the particular nature of Austria's educational laws (a two-thirds majority is required, see above) a multi-party consensus is needed to change the status quo.\n\nThe official term for Matura in Austria is \"Reifeprüfung\". The document received after the successful completion of the written and oral exams is called \"Maturazeugnis\".\n\nIn the gymnasium (AHS = \"Allgemeinbildende Höhere Schule\"), which, as opposed to vocational schools, focuses on general education, the Matura consists of 3–4 written exams (referred to as \"Schriftliche Arbeit\", 4–5 hours each) to be taken on consecutive mornings (usually in May) and 2-3 oral exams to be taken on the same half-day about a month later (usually in June). All examinations are held at the school which the candidate last attended. Candidates have to write a scholarly paper (called \"Vorwissenschaftliche Arbeit\") to be submitted at the beginning of February. This paper also needs to be defended in an oral exam.\n\nVocational schools with a focus on either business and economics or technical subjects, such as commercial academies (HAK = \"Handelsakademie\") and polytechnics (HTL = \"Höhere Technische Lehranstalt\") also finish with the Matura, but last five years as opposed to the four-year Oberstufe (upper stage) of the Gymnasium. In vocational schools, an Ausbildungsschwerpunkt is chosen by all students, which then constitutes the main focus of their schooling, and is a compulsory subject at the Matura examinations.\n\nThe grading system is the one universally used in Austrian schools: 1 (sehr gut) is excellent; 2 (gut) is good; 3 (befriedigend) is satisfactory; 4 (genügend) is sufficient and 5 (nicht genügend) means that you have failed. In addition, a candidate’s Maturazeugnis contains a formalized overall assessment: \"mit ausgezeichnetem Erfolg bestanden\" (pass with distinction: an average of 1.5 or better, no grade below 3), \"mit gutem Erfolg bestanden\" (pass with merit: an average of 2.0 or better, no grade below 3), \"bestanden\" (pass: no grade below 4); and nicht bestanden (fail: at least one grade 5). Candidates who have failed may re-take their exams in September/October or February/March of the following school year.\n\nCompulsory subjects for the written finals are German and Mathematics, as well as a modern foreign language (usually English, French, Spanish or Italian).\n\nSince 2015 it is centralised, which has caused a lot of critics. There is just one external examiner: Candidates are set tasks of the oral finals by their own (former) teachers. Formally, however, there is an examination board consisting of a candidate’s teachers/examiners, the headmaster/headmistress and a Vorsitzende(r) (head), usually a high-ranking school official or the head of another school. All oral exams are public, but attendance by anyone other than a candidate’s former schoolmates is not encouraged, and indeed rare.\n\nIt is, of course, possible for Austrians of all age groups to take the Matura. Adults from their twenties on are usually tutored at private institutions of adult education before taking their final tests, held separately before a regional examination board.\n\nCriticism of the Austrian Matura has been persistent. In particular, it has been argued that the current system encourages rote learning (see also education reform), hinders students’ creativity and obscures the fact that the body of knowledge is constantly changing. Various forms of alternative assessment have been proposed, most notably the portfolio as well as teamwork and peer review also in exam situations.\n\nIn fiction, Friedrich Torberg’s novel \"Der Schüler Gerber\" (1930) about a Matura candidate driven to suicide on the day of his oral exams by his cruel mathematics teacher has become a classic.\n\nAustrian Education system define education technology as\" the use of technology to improve education. It is a systematic, iterative process for designing instruction or training used to improve performance\"\n\nOther definition:\n\"Educational technology is the incorporation of Internet and other information technologies into the learning experience\"\n\nThe General Act for University Education of 1966 and the University Organization Act of 1975 provide the legal framework for tertiary education, and the federal Ministry for Science and Research funds and oversees education at the university level. Austria's 23 public and 13 private universities enjoy a high degree of autonomy and offer a full spectrum of degree programs. Established in 1365, the University of Vienna is Austria’s oldest and largest university.\n\nAs a result of the reforms since the 1960s, the university system has changed from one serving the elite to one serving the masses. The growing number of students at Austrian universities reflects the liberalization of educational policy at secondary and higher levels. Between the 1955–56 and 1991–92 academic years, the number of students enrolled in institutions of higher education increased from about 19,000 to more than 200,000. The number of students beginning university-level education after completing the AHS program also increased and amounted to 85% in 1990, compared with 60% in the mid-1960s.\n\nTraditionally, students were free to enroll at any (public) university and in any subject they wished to. It is even possible to enroll in several subject fields concurrently (which is often done by gifted students to signal their abilities to the job market). Recently, restrictions in a number of fields have been introduced. Currently, the affected subjects are: Biology, Human Medicine, Dentistry, Veterinary Medicine, Pharmacology, Psychology, Journalism and Economic Sciences.\n\nThe reforms also meant that university education ceased to be a male privilege. Between the 1960–61 and 1991–92 academic years, the proportion of female students enrolling at universities rose from 23 to 44%. Yet, although women account for almost half of the students at university level, only 2% of professors at institutions of higher learning were women in 1990.\n\nDespite the increase in the numbers of university students and the greater presence of women, universities remain primarily the domain of middle- and higher-income groups. The proportion of students from working-class backgrounds doubled from 7 to 14%, and the number of these from agricultural backgrounds increased from less than 2% to more than 4% between 1960 and 1990. But children of white-collar workers, civil servants, and the self-employed accounted for more than 80% of enrollments at Austrian institutions of higher education in the early 1990s.\n\nThe country’s university system was free until 2001; since then studies have been subject to fees (€366 per term for Austrian citizens, about €700 per term for non-Austrians). There are some non-state exceptions to this, where students can still study for a subsidized education, for example within the campus system of the English Teacher Training College. In 2008, however, the government decided to abolish fees for students who complete their studies in the minimum time and are EU/EEA citizens, but not for others.\n\nIncreased accessibility to university-level education has a number of consequences. The dramatic expansion in the number of students led to overcrowding at many institutions. Some critics maintain that the increasing number of students diminishes the overall quality of university-level education despite increases in federal investment. One obvious problem was that more than 50% of students enrolled at universities in the 1980s dropped out before obtaining a degree. Complex reasons account for this high drop-out rate. Some students simply enrolled to acquire student benefits; others study for the sake of personal enrichment without really intending to get a degree. Some are unable to complete their studies for financial reasons. Although a university degree provides students with a substantial amount of social status and better income opportunities, there has been an increase in “academic unemployment,” especially among degree-holders in the humanities and social sciences.\n\nDuring the 1990s, Austria introduced Fachhochschulen (University of Applied Sciences) in addition to the traditional universities. The training at these colleges is more tailored to practically applicable professional skills. Furthermore, students are allowed much less liberty in choosing which and how many courses they take during a given semester, which ensures that virtually all students graduate within the prescribed time (usually three years for the bachelor's degree).\n\nAccreditation of private universities started in 2001, based on a federal law (\"Universitäts-Akkreditierungsgesetz\"). Accreditation includes the right to legally grant academic degrees. The \"Akkreditierungsrat\" (accreditation council, ) evaluates applicants and issues recommendations to the responsible accreditation authority, the Federal Ministry of Education, Science, and Cultural Affairs. Accreditations must be renewed regularly and can be withdrawn, e.g. in case of repeated academic misconduct. In 2003, the accreditation of International University Vienna was withdrawn. In 2006, when the accreditation of Imadec University expired, the accreditation council rejected the request for renewal. Today (2011), 13 private universities are accredited (listed here).\n\nThe former Minister of Education, Elisabeth Gehrer, of the Schüssel government, has enacted extensive reforms to the higher education system — sometimes referred to as the Gehrer-Schüssel reforms — during the last years. Effective 2003, universities have become independent juristic persons and have been given considerably more discretion by the law to act without ministerial control. However, codetermination of professors, junior teachers and students has been replaced by a more hierarchical system with a powerful management on top. The university councils, whose members are in part appointed by the government, are in charge of appointing the senior managers (\"Rektorat\") and overseeing their activity.\n\nThree medical universities (Vienna, Graz and Innsbruck) have been separated from their previous \"almae matres\", and after undergoing the appropriate accreditation procedure two other private universities have now been established. Newly appointed professors are no longer government employees, and universities are supposed to compete with each other.\n\nIn spite of the potential the increased flexibility gives to universities, there are some severe problems with the reform. First, budgets have not been increased (except to account for inflation), even though it is more expensive to hire professors as private employees, because of taxes and increased social insurance contributions.\n\nUniversities are not able to select students for admission, and they are not permitted to penalize students who abuse free access to university and free choice in studies. Moderate tuition fees were introduced in 2001, which are supposed to create a small incentive for students to graduate more quickly.\n\nIn Austria, there is no institution comparable to the American college or to the American professional school. Students enroll in one (or more) field of studies, in which they are expected to graduate after four to six years. Since the 1970s, the first degree was the \"Magister\" (= Latin for Master, abbr. \"Mag.\") in the humanities, economic and social sciences, law and natural sciences. The first degree in engineering and agriculture is the \"Diplom-Ingenieur\" (abbr. \"Dipl.-Ing.\" or \"DI\"). Recently, and in accordance with the Bologna process, many universities have begun to introduce a bachelor's degree also, which comes before the \"Magister\" or Master.\n\nMedicine is left as the subject where a doctorate is the only degree (after at least six years). In most subject fields, students need to submit a \"Diplomarbeit\", a research paper of an average of about 100 pages, but sometimes considerably longer. As the requirements differ strongly and are not always clear, some students spend years working on this thesis, thus (usually not deliberately) delaying graduation.\n\nPostgraduate degrees such as LL.M.s and MBAs have been introduced since the 1990s.\n\nHowever, with the Bologna process, Austria has committed to transform its system to the structure of distinguishing between Bachelor and Master degrees (of 3 years and 1–2 years respectively). In some fields, it is still not clear how this will be made compatible with the traditional requirements necessary to enter a regulated profession.\n\nDebates about educational policy in Austria frequently are the result of different perspectives related to the strengths and weaknesses of the traditional education system. Proponents of the two-track secondary system, for example, defend it as performance oriented and criticize the leveling of achievement or lowering of standards the introduction of a single compulsory middle school would involve. Conversely, opponents of the two-track system criticize its rigidity and inherent absence of equal opportunity. Consequently, such bipolar terms as performance and leveling, elite and mass education, and achievement and equal opportunity prevail in educational debates. In some respects, Austrians of different political and educational policy persuasions may expect too many different things from one university system. They expect it to provide general education, as do state university systems in the United States, and “Ivy League” performance at the same time.\n\n\"This page incorporates material from Austria: Country Studies Federal Research Division. See also\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16569349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16569349", "title": "Education in Bahrain", "text": "Education in Bahrain\n\nBahrain has the oldest public education system in the Arabian Peninsula. The system was established in 1930 when the Bahraini government assumed responsibility for operating two pre-existing primary public schools for boys. Subsequently, separate girls' schools and various universities were established in the 20th century. According to data from the 2010 census, the literacy rate of Bahrain stands at 94.6%. As of 2016, education expenditure accounts for 2.7% of Bahrain's GDP.\n\nQuranic schools were the only source of education in Bahrain prior to the 20th century; such schools were primarily dedicated to the study of the Qur'an. The first modern school to open in the country was a missionary elementary school setup in 1892 (according to one account) in Manama by the American Dutch Reformed Church, with the school's syllabus comprising English, Mathematics and the study of Christianity. Leading merchants in the country sent their children to the school until it was closed down in 1933 due to financial difficulties. The school reopened some years later under the name of Al Raja School where it operates till the present day.\n\nParents who could afford to fund their children's studies often sent them to schools in Bombay or Baghdad. Families of a predominately religious background often sent their children to religious institutions in the region, to madrasas in Mecca and Al-Hasa in mainland Arabia for Sunni students and to Najaf and Karbala for Shia students. As a result of this traditional religious education, there was a negative stigma attached to the American Mission School and only a few parents were bold enough to send their children to the school. Prior to the establishment of a public school in the country, Shia and Sunni students had limited interactions during their education. This can be attributed to different environments of learning; outside of religious institutions, Shia students acquired knowledge from matams whereas Sunni students did from majlises although neither matam nor majlis were officially recognised as educational institutions in their own right.\n\nFollowing the end of the First World War, Western ideas became more widespread in the country, culminating in the opening of the first public school of Bahrain, Al-Hidaya Al-Khalifia Boys school, in the island of Muharraq in 1919. The school was founded by prominent citizens of Muharraq and was endorsed by the Bahraini royal family. The country's first Education Committee was established by several leading Bahraini merchants, headed by Shaikh Abdulla bin Isa Al-Khalifa, the son of the then-ruler of Bahrain Isa ibn Ali Al Khalifa, who acted as the de facto Minister of Education. The Education Committee was also responsible for managing the Al-Hidaya Boys school. The school was in fact the brainchild of Shaikh Abdulla, who suggested the idea after returning from post-World War I celebrations in England.\n\nIn 1926, a second public school for boys opened up in the capital city, Manama. Two years later, in 1928, the first public school for girls was established. Due to financial constraints suffered by the Education Committee, the Bahraini government took control of the schools in 1930.\n\nIn the 1986–87 academic year, 88,152 students attended 139 public schools. Education in the public system, which included six-year primary schools, three-year intermediate schools, and three-year secular secondary schools, is free. Students receive supplies, uniforms, meals, and transportation to and from school at no charge. Almost all children in the six- to eleven-year-old age-group attend primary school, and about two-thirds of all twelve- to fourteen-year-olds are enrolled in intermediate schools. However, there was a significant drop-out rate, especially for girls, after the completion of intermediate school. In the 1986–87 academic year, only 41 percent of fifteen- to seventeen-year-olds attended secondary schools.\n\nIn the academic year of 2008/2009 the number of public classes in Bahrain ( including religious classes) are 4326, with the number of male students 62381 and female students 63233. with a distribution of 62172 in primary classes, 32327 in preparatory classes (junior high) and 31115 in secondary schools.\n\nIn addition to the American Mission School, another foreign private school was opened in 1910; Al-Ittihad school, funded by the Persian community of Bahrain.\n\nIn addition to the public education system, there are forty-eight private and religious schools, including the United States operated and accredited Bahrain School, (which occupies the older school - Awali School built for the children of expat foreign nationals who worked for BAPCO and lived mainly in Awali) in the 1950's. Bahrain School now offers classes from primary school through secondary school, whereas the original \"Awali School\" provided no secondary education so children went to boarding schools in their home countries after the age of about 11 years. In Bahrain there were 5,000 teachers in 1988, of whom 65 percent were native Bahrainis. Egyptians constituted the largest group of foreign teachers. Bahrain also is home to St Christopher’s School,which the Guardian has named as one of the eight best international schools in the world, the only school in the Middle East to make the list. 10 universities provide internationally recognized qualifications. Other notable schools include British School of Bahrain, The Indian School and Sacred Heart School\n\nIn 1927 the first group of Bahrainis to receive a university education enrolled at the American University of Beirut in Lebanon. The first institution of higher education in Bahrain, the Gulf Polytechnic, was established in 1968 as the Gulf Technical College. In 1984 Gulf Polytechnic merged with the University College of Art, Science, and Education (UCB), founded in 1979, to create a national university offering bachelor of arts and bachelor of science degrees. During the 1991–92 academic year, more than 4,000 students, half of whom were women, studied at the two campuses of UCB/Polytechnic.\n\nIn 2008 a new Bahrain Polytechnic opened on the University of Bahrain's old campus location at Isa Town.\n\nBahrain had three additional institutions of higher education in 1993. The College of Health Sciences, established in 1959, offers various medical technology and nurses' training programs. The Hotel and Catering Training Center offers postsecondary vocational courses in management and culinary arts. The newest institution, the Arabian Gulf University (AGU), was established outside Riffa in 1984 and funded by the six member countries of the GCC. Construction of AGU facilities, however, was delayed by the decline in oil revenues experienced by all GCC states in the mid-1980s. The first faculty, the College of Medicine, opened in the fall of 1989 and provided medical education for fifty-eight aspiring physicians. The projected completion date for the AGU campus is 2006; officials anticipate that AGU will accommodate 5,000 students annually, once the university becomes fully operational.\n\nThe AGU campus has been completed to contain a faculty of medicine, faculty of agriculture and Princess Jawhara of Saudi Arabia donated a centre for molecular biology & inherited disorders. Built right across the street from the campus to encourage the development of regional research in this issue.\n\nFurther liberalisation of the education sector has occurred in Bahrain. New private universities are sprouting up by the day, which has led to a low standard of education in some of these private establishments. This low standard has led to the establishment of the Quality Assurance Authority for Education and Training, which primarily focuses on scrutinising all the programs offered by each university.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10861717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10861717", "title": "Education in Dubai", "text": "Education in Dubai\n\nPrivate education in Dubai is regulated by the Knowledge and Human Development Authority. The UAE Ministry of Education is responsible for public schools in Dubai. Currently, more than 90% of school education in Dubai takes place in the private sector, served by 194 private schools offering 17 different curricula to more than 280,000 students from 182 nationalities. Dubai has 26 international branch campuses of universities from 12 different countries - including the UK, Australia and India. More than 30,000 students attend these universities, with the majority studying business, engineering and media & design. The Knowledge and Human Development Authority (KHDA) was founded in 2006 to develop education and human resource sectors in Dubai, and license educational institutes.\n\nPublic schools are all gender segregated. Primary and secondary education is free of cost for all Emiratis and compulsory for boys and girls at the all grades. The medium of instruction in public schools is Arabic with emphasis on English as a second language. \n\nAs of 2017, there are 194 private schools in Dubai that offer one of the following curricula (arranged by number of schools following curriculum): British, Indian, American, the UAE Ministry of Education Curriculum, International Baccalaureate, Iranian, French, Filipino, Pakistani, SABIS, IAT, German, Russian, Japanese, and Canadian. In total, 273,599 students from 187 different nationalities were enrolled in private schools in the 2016/17 academic year. This is heavily weighted towards younger year groups with 42% in primary education, 25% in secondary, 15% in tertiary, and 18% in kindergarten. The British and Indian curricula alone account for 64% of all enrollment in Dubai-based private schools.\n\nTuition at these private schools range from AED 1,725 to AED 107,200 per year, and Dubai's annual revenue from private schooling fees is AED 5.35bn. 39% of students pay less than AED 10,000 in tuition per year.\n\nThere is some correlation between fees and the rating of the school, and this has strengthened with the KHDA ruling on school fees that allows top rated Outstanding schools to put up fees at a higher percentage than those rated more poorly. A list of the highest rated schools in Dubai with fees may be found here.\n\nSchools in the UAE teach in English.\n\nAll students take Arabic classes, either as a primary or secondary language. Muslim and Arab students must also take Islamic studies.\n\nPrimary education is compulsory from the age of 5 by the Ministry of Education in the UAE. Most schools offers both primary and secondary instruction so students do not need to transfer to a separate school location upon graduating from primary school.\n\nAmerican curriculum runs from Kindergarten (5 years old) to Grade 8 (14 years old). British curriculum runs from Year 1 (4–5 years old) to Year 9 (14 years old). International Baccalaureate Primary Years Programme is for ages 3–12.\n\nSecondary school is from grades 6 to 9. Most of the secondary schools require students to take standardized tests such as Advanced Placement, SAT, IB Diploma, IGCSE, GCE Advanced level or CBSE.\nOther options include vocational education PEARSON BTEC level 2 Diplomas and Level 3 Extended Diplomas. A new curriculum being offered is the IB Career-related Programme which can include a BTEC and is offered at 6 schools in UAE.\n\nA sizable number of foreign accredited universities have been set up in Dubai. Most of their campuses are located at Dubai International Academic City, a purpose built free zone for tertiary academic institutions. The Harvard Medical School Dubai Center (HMSDC) Institute for Postgraduate Education and Research has been established as well in Dubai Health Care City. The RIT Dubai campus is located in Dubai Silicon Oasis.\n\nIn 2010, Michigan State University Dubai closed all undergraduate programs.\n\nDubai Public Libraries is the public library system in Dubai.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53028297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53028297", "title": "Education of Hawaiian Youths Abroad", "text": "Education of Hawaiian Youths Abroad\n\nEducation of Hawaiian Youths Abroad was a government-funded educational program during the reign of King Kalākaua, to help students further their educations beyond the institutions available in Hawaii at that time. Students were personally selected by Kalākaua, based upon family background and academic excellence. All living accommodations and expenses were taken care of for chosen students enrolled in a foreign university or apprenticed outside of the kingdom of Hawaii to learn a trade.\n\nOn June1, 1880, representative Robert Hoapili Baker, formerly a member of the king's Household Guard, succeeded in getting the House of Representatives to appropriate $15,000 to support the program. Further appropriations for the program were $30,000 in 1882, $25,000 in 1884, and $30,000 in 1886, for an aggregate total of $100,000 investment in the program.\n\nBetween 1880 and 1887, five young Hawaiians, four boys and one girl, were sent to study in Italy. The first group of students were Robert Napuʻuako Boyd, Robert William Wilcox and James Kaneholo Booth, leaving Honolulu on August 30, 1880, under the guardianship of Celso Caesar Moreno. Kalākaua intended for them to be sent to a Prussian military academy; however, once in Prussia, Moreno decided the designated school did not have the structure Kalākaua had in mind. The three young men were eventually enrolled at three different academies in Livorno, Turin and Naples, respectively. On September 15, 1884, Booth died of cholera at his school. The second group of two students were sent to the Military Academy of Turin in 1887 to prepare for a career in the cultural arts. August Hering was a student in sculpture, and Maile Nowlein, daughter of Colonel Samuel Nowlein, studied art and music. Both were guests at Wilcox's wedding to Baronessa Gina Sobrero.\n\nThree students were escorted to Glasgow, Scotland by Charles Hastings Judd in 1882 and apprenticed at the Scotland Street Iron Works. One of them, Hugo Kawelo, returned to Hawaii in 1885 due to ill health. The other two, Henry Kapena and John Lovell were able to complete their apprenticeship in 1886, and secured positions in San Francisco. Kapena returned to Hawaii within months of arriving in San Francisco.\n\nIn 1882, Judd accompanied Joseph A. Kamauoha for his enrollment at King's College London. He accompanied Matthew Makalua and Abraham Charles Piianaia to their enrollment at Denstone College. All three students were placed under the guardianship of Hawaii Consul-General Manley Hopkins, who sent regular detailed accounts to Kalākaua. Hopkins gave each student an allowance, and taught them how to manage a budget by requiring them to pay their own expenses out of the allowance. In 1886, Kamauoha succumbed to a lengthy illness thought to be the result of London's weather. Piianaia pursued studies in law, and was called home after the Bayonet Constitution was signed. He became principal of the Government English School at Ulupalakua, Maui. In 1890, he married Fanny Malulani, a student of St. Andrew's Priory School in Honolulu. A quilt made by students at St. Andrews Priory as a wedding present is in a collection at the Bishop Museum in Honolulu. Makalua married Annie Clementina Dewar in England and had a son. Manley was able to convince the Hawaiian government to allow Makalua to remain in London until he completed his medical studies in 1890. Makalua never returned to Hawaii, but remained in England and became a doctor.\nIn 1882, Judd enrolled Thomas Spencer at Saint Matthew's Episcopal Day School in San Mateo, California. In 1885, Thomas Pualii Cummins, son of John Adams Cummins, and the king's three nephews, David Kawānanakoa, Edward Abnel Keliʻiahonui, and Jonah Kūhiō Kalanianaʻole were also enrolled in the school. Keliʻiahonui fell ill with typhoid fever in September 1887, and was immediately returned to Hawaii where he died on September 21. Henry Grube Marchant was sent to Boston in 1887 to study engraving.\n\nThree youths were sent to China and Japan for Asian studies, but not a lot is recorded about them. James Kapaa studied in Canton, China from 1882 until his return to Hawaii in 1885. James Hakuole and Isaac Harbottle were sent to Japan in 1882 under the guardianship of R. W. Lewin. They became fluent in the Japanese language and immersed in the culture of Japan. In 1887 Lewin recommended both young men be enrolled in the Imperial Japanese Military University. The enrollment never happened, because they were called home after the Bayonet Constitution went into effect.\n\nFunding for the program ended with the political upheaval following the signing of the Bayonet Constitution in 1887. Most of the students were recalled home to Hawaii. Unable to find work for suited for their military training, Wilcox and Boyd, two of the most controversial returnees, participated in the unsuccessful Wilcox rebellion of 1889 aimed at restoring the constitution of 1864. Critics in the English press in Hawaii noted the insurrection as an example of the folly of the program. The last student to receive governmental funding Makalua stopped receiving aid after 1894.\n\nThe 1901 legislative session of Territory of Hawaii attempted to pass a bill by Representative Jonah Kumalae to create a similar education program to send poor Hawaiian youths to the US mainland or aboard for education in top universities. However, it was never passed.\n\n"}
{"id": "1123847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1123847", "title": "Family history society", "text": "Family history society\n\nA family history society or genealogical society is a society, often charitable or not-for-profit, that allows member genealogists and family historians to profit from shared knowledge. Large societies often own libraries, sponsor research seminars and foreign trips, and publish journals. Some societies concentrate on a specific niche, such as the family history of a particular geographical area, ethnicity, nationality, or religion. Lineage societies are societies that limit their membership to descendants of a particular person or group of people of historical importance.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22022829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22022829", "title": "Heir-Conditioned", "text": "Heir-Conditioned\n\nHeir-Conditioned is a Warner Bros. Pictures \"Looney Tunes\" theatrical cartoon short released in 1955 and directed by Friz Freleng and written by Warren Foster. \"Heir-Conditioned\" is the second of three Looney Tunes shorts underwritten by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation (the first being \"By Word of Mouse\").\n\nThe story begins with Sylvester the Cat finding himself the heir of his mistress' vast fortune. While his financial adviser, Elmer Fudd, is urging him to invest his money, Sylvester is frightened he will simply lose his money. Meanwhile, his street cat friends are out to get the money for themselves, but Fudd manages to thwart each attempt, including the one from Johnny, a cat who pretends to be a salesman for a \"silver cleaning liquid\" of the Hi-Ho Silver Cleaning Company of Walla Walla, Washington. Finally, Fudd manages an extensive lecture on the benefits of good investment on the economy with an educational film to illustrate the point. While Sylvester is not convinced, the cats outside see the film themselves and are persuaded to the point when Sylvester manages to get the money to them, they demand he give it over to Elmer for investment. Defeated, Sylvester gives in and growls to the portrait of his mistress that his life would have been less complicated if she took her money with her.\n\n"}
{"id": "6352725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6352725", "title": "Henry Luce Scholar", "text": "Henry Luce Scholar\n\nLuce Scholar is a recipient of a cultural exchange and vocational fellowship sponsored by the Henry Luce Foundation, a private foundation established by Time, Inc. founder Henry R. Luce.\n\nFounded in 1974, The Luce Scholars Program provides stipends and professional placements for eighteen young Americans to live and work in Asia each year. The program's purpose is to increase awareness of Asia among future leaders in American society.\n\nThose who already have significant experience in Asia or Asian studies are not eligible for the Luce Scholars Program. Candidates must be American citizens who have received at least a bachelor's degree and are no more than 29 years old on September 1 of the year they enter the program. Nominees should have a record of high achievement, outstanding leadership ability, and a clearly defined career interest with evidence of potential for professional accomplishment.\n\nLuce Scholar candidates may be nominated by one of over 70 colleges and universities. Applications are submitted by eligible institutions in early November. The Luce Foundation cannot accept applications submitted directly to the foundation.\n\nAfter interviews with the foundation's staff, finalists meet with one of three selection panels who choose the eighteen Luce Scholars. Placements and support services for the Luce Scholars are provided by the Asia Foundation, an organization with field offices throughout Asia. The program begins in August and concludes the following July. The 2010-2011 Luce Scholars competition attracted interest from 159 candidates, a record number of nominations representing 63 participating institutions.\n\nLuce Scholars have backgrounds in virtually any field other than Asian studies; including medicine, the arts, business, law, science, environmental studies, and journalism. Placements can be made in the following countries in East and Southeast Asia: Cambodia, China and Hong Kong, Indonesia, India, Japan, Laos, Malaysia, Mongolia, Myanmar, Nepal, Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, and Vietnam.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5423760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5423760", "title": "Herbert W. Marsh", "text": "Herbert W. Marsh\n\nHerbert W. Marsh is an educational psychologist who has published influential research on self-concept, motivation and university students' evaluations of teaching effectiveness. The website of Oxford University, where he is currently a faculty member, notes the following.\n\nProfessor Marsh was recognised as the most productive educational psychologist in the world, one of the top 10 international researchers in Higher Education and in Social Psychology, and the 11th most productive researcher in the world across all disciplines of psychology. He is a highly cited researcher on ISI’s list of the “world's most cited and influential scientific authors over a sustained period according to a common standard that covers all countries and all scientific disciplines,\" one of only 8 social science researchers from the UK to achieve this recognition.\nMarsh completed undergraduate and master's degrees at Indiana University before earning a PhD in at the University of California at Los Angeles in 1974. He was Head of Evaluation Research Services at the University of Southern California before moving to Australia in 1980 to take a faculty position at Sydney University. He joined the University of Western Sydney where he established the Self-concept Enhancement and Learning Facilitation (SELF) Research Centre. In 2006, Marsh became a Professor at the University of Oxford.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50649", "title": "Home economics", "text": "Home economics\n\nHome economics, domestic science or home science is a field of study that deals with the relationship between individuals, families, communities, and the environment in which they live.\n\nFamily and consumer science was previously known in the United States as home economics, often abbreviated \"home ec\" or \"HE\". In 1994, various organizations, including the American Association of Family and Consumer Sciences, adopted the new term \"family and consumer science\" to reflect the fact that the field covers aspects outside of home life and wellness.\n\nThe field is also known by other names, including human sciences, home science, and domestic economy. In addition, home economics has a strong historic relationship to the field of human ecology, and since the 1960s a number of university-level home economics programs have been renamed \"human ecology\" programs, including Cornell University's program.\n\nOne of the first to champion the economics of running a home was Catherine Beecher, sister to Harriet Beecher Stowe. Catherine and Harriet both were leaders in mid-19th century North America in talking about domestic science. They came from a very religious family that valued education especially for women.\n\nThe Morrill Act of 1862 propelled domestic science further ahead as land grant colleges sought to educate farm wives in running their households as their husbands were being educated in agricultural methods and processes. Iowa, Kansas, Nebraska, Illinois, Minnesota and Michigan were early leaders offering programs for women. There were women graduates of these institutions several years before the Lake Placid Conferences which gave birth to the home economics movement.\n\nThe home economics movement started with Ellen Swallow Richards, who was the first woman to attend Massachusetts Institute of Technology and later became the first female instructor. Through her chemistry research, she became an expert in water quality and later began to focus on applying scientific principles to domestic situations. At the Chicago World’s Fair in 1893, she designed the Rumford Kitchen, which was a tiny kitchen that served nutritious meals to thousands of fair goers, along with a healthy dose of nutrition education. She shunned an invitation to participate in the Women’s Building as she said none of her research was just women’s work, but rather information for all.\nLate in the 19th century, Richards convened a group of contemporaries to discuss the essence of domestic science and how the elements of this discipline would ultimately improve the quality of life for many individuals and families. They met at pristine Lake Placid, New York at the invitation of Melvil Dewey. Over the course of the next 10 years, these educators worked tirelessly to elevate the discipline, which was to become home economics, to a legitimate profession. Richards wanted to call this oekology or the science of right living. Euthenics, the science of controllable environment, was also a name of her choice, but \"home economics\" was ultimately chosen as the official term in 1899. Richards then founded the American Home Economics Association (now called the American Association of Family and Consumer Sciences) in 1909.\n\nIn the 1910s the AHEA won passage of two crucial pieces of legislation that allowed home economists to establish formal niches for research and teaching within institutions of higher education. The Smith-Lever Act of 1914 and the Smith-Hughes Act of 1917 provided funding to expand demonstration work in rural communities and to develop and teach a home economics curriculum on the campuses of most state land-grant colleges. This legislation contributed to the creation of the Office of Home Economics, which grew into the Bureau of Home Economics, at the US Department of Agriculture during the early 20th century.\n\nHome economics emerged at the turn of the twentieth century as a movement to train women to be more efficient household managers. At the same moment, American families began to consume many more goods and services than they produced. To guide women in this transition, professional home economics had two major goals: to teach women to assume their new roles as modern consumers and to communicate homemakers’ needs to manufacturers and political leaders. The development of the profession progressed from its origins as an educational movement to its identity as a source of consumer expertise in the interwar period to its virtual disappearance by the 1970s. An additional goal of the field was to “rationalize housework”, or lend the social status of a profession to it, based on a theory that housework could be intellectually fulfilling to women engaged in it, along with any emotional or relational benefits.\n\nIn the 19th century, home economics classes were intended to ready young women for their duties in the home in healthy environments. Classes were first offered in the United States, Canada, Germany and Great Britain, followed by Latin America, Asia, and Africa. International organizations such as those associated with the United Nations have been involved in starting home economics programs around the world.\n\nThrough the 1940s Iowa State College (later University) was the only program granting a master of science in household equipment. However, this program was centered on the ideals that women should acquire practical skills but also a scientifically based understanding of how technology in the household works. For example, women were required to disassemble and then reassemble kitchen machinery so they could understand basic operations as well as repair the equipment. In doing so, Iowa State effectively created culturally acceptable forms of physics and engineering for women in an era when these pursuits were not generally accessible to them.\n\nHome economists … found a receptive audience among many of its young female members who expressed interest in learning about how to improve their homes, spend their leisure time, and make decisions about what to buy, what to make at home, and even what books to read. Though men’s participation in Home Economics programs was encouraged it was not actively recruited, and in future courses at universities such as Cornell, men’s roles became entrenched in such courses as hotel management in the hospitality industry.\n\nA Standards Committee’s proposal in 1924 changed the AHEA constitution allowing for a special voting membership section clearing the way for HEIB (Home Economists in Business) section. The largest group of HEIB members worked for food companies such as Washburn Crosby (later General Mills), Kellogg’s, ..or trade associations charged with promoting particular foods such as the Institute of American Meat Packers and the National Dairy Council. [Some] worked as journalists for women’s magazines such as.. the Ladies’ Home Journal. [Others] worked for utility companies.\n\nThe function that home economists have been performing for more than a century remains key to our experiences as consumers, but the professional identity has disappeared. Indeed, efforts to reposition the discipline ultimately led to its renaming in the late twentieth century. In 1994, “home economics” was replaced by “family and consumer science.”…This renaming signaled a formal break from the field’s association with domesticity, highlighting instead issues of “family” and “consumption.”\n\nA new actor that rose to prominence in the 1980s was the charismatic celebrity unaligned with home economists or any other professional group. Martha Stewart and her fellow “domestic celebrities,” in television programs, books, magazines, and websites, attest to the continued importance of independent experts and commercial mass-media organizations in facilitating technological and cultural change in consumer products and services industries.\n\nTo a great degree, Americans today tap into values once enshrined in a home economics curriculum to express a national identity and assert a standard of living that is distinct not only from Developing Nations but also from the cultures of other Industrialized Nations... Even as luxury consumption exerts a cultural pull for many, middle-class culture still celebrates consumers who make sensible, controlled choices in the marketplace, resisting pure pleasure, impulse purchases, and cheap or shoddy goods.\n\nPractice homes were added to American universities in the early 1900’s in order to model a living situation, although the all-women ‘team’ model used for students was different from prevailing expectations of housewives. For example, women were graded on collaboration, while households at the time assumed that women would be working independently.\n\nNevertheless, the practice homes were valued. These practicum courses took place in a variety of environments including single-family homes, apartments, and student dorm-style blocks. For a duration of a number of weeks, students lived together while taking on different roles and responsibilities, such as cooking, cleaning, interior decoration, hosting, and budgeting. Some classes also involved caring for young infants, temporarily adopted from orphanages. Childcare practicums were often included at the same time as other classwork, requiring students to configure their intellectual and home lives as compatible with one another. According to Megan Elias, “in the ideal, domestic work was as important as work done outside the home and it was performed by teams of equals who rotated roles. Each member of the team was able to live a life outside the home as well as inside the home, ideally, one that both informed her domestic work and was informed by it. This balance between home and the wider world was basic to the movement”.\n\nDepartments were set up in a number of American universities. For example Brigham Young University had a department from 1920-1950.\n\nFCS is taught worldwide, as an elective or a required course in secondary education, and in many tertiary and continuing education institutions. Sometimes it is also taught in primary education. International cooperation in the field is coordinated by the International Federation for Home Economics, established in 1908.\n\nBetween 1880 and 1900, the Reifenstein schools concept was initiated by Ida von Kortzfleisch, a Prussian noble woman and early German feminist. Reifenstein refers to Reifenstein im Eichsfeld, a municipality in Thuringia and site of the first permanent school. Reifensteiner Verband comprised from 1897 till 1990 about 15 own schools and cooperated with further operators. About 40 wirtschaftliche Frauenschulen, rural economist women schools were connected to the Reifensteiner concept and movement and allowed higher education for women already in the German Kaiserreich. The 1913 doctorate of Johannes Kramer compared different concepts of home economic education worldwide and praised the system e.g. in Iowa.\n\nIn South Korea, the field is most commonly known as \"family studies\" or \"family science\" (가정과학, gajeong-gwahak). The field began in schools taught by Western missionaries in the late 19th century. The first college-level department of family science was established at Ewha Womans University in Seoul in 1929.\n\nIn 2012 there were only 3.5 million students enrolled in FCS secondary programs, a decrease of 38 percent over a decade.\nMany Education boards in India such as NIOS, CBSE, ICSE, CISCE and various state boards offer home science as a subject in their courses.\n\nIn the UK, Home Economics was once a GCSE qualification offered to secondary school pupils, but has since been replaced with a course entitled Food and Nutrition which focuses more on the nutritional side of food to economics.\n\nIn Scotland, Home Economics was replaced by Hospitality: Practical Cooking at National 3,4 and 5 level and Health and Food Technology at National 3, 4, 5, Higher and Advanced Higher. The awarding body is the SQA.\n\nSituated in the human sciences, home economics draws from a range of disciplines to achieve optimal and sustainable living for individuals, families, and communities. Historically, home economics has been in the context of the home and household, but this has extended in the 21st century to include the wider living environments as we better understand that the capacities, choices, and priorities of individuals and families impact at all levels, ranging from the household to the local and the global community. Home economists are concerned with promoting and protecting the well-being of individuals, families, and communities; they facilitate the development of attributes for lifelong learning for paid, unpaid, and voluntary work. Home economics professionals are advocates for individuals, families, and communities.\n\nThe content of home economics comes from the synthesis of multiple disciplines. This interdisciplinary knowledge is essential because the phenomena and challenges of everyday life are not typically one-dimensional. The content of home economics courses vary, but may include: food, nutrition, and health; personal finance; family resource management and planning; textiles and clothing; shelter and housing; consumerism and consumer science; household management; design and technology; food science and hospitality; human development and family studies; communication and extension education and community services, among others. The capacity to draw from such disciplinary diversity is a strength of the profession, allowing for the development of specific interpretations of the field, as relevant to the context.\n\nHome cleaning tasks can be separated into four categories: litter removal, storage of belongings, dusting, and washing of surfaces. Washing of surfaces is the most dangerous and complicated part because of the cleaning solutions. For example, hard water deposits are cleaned with acid solutions and grease is cleaned with alkaline solutions; they can both harm the skin and are reactive toward each other, potentially producing unwanted by-products. Mixing together chlorine bleach and strong acids (e.g. limescale remover containing HCl) forms chlorine gas, which is toxic. Solvents such as paint thinner and rubbing alcohol are toxic and flammable. Some disinfectants are toxic. Even dish water can require rubber gloves.\n\nThe AAFCS (American Association of Family & Consumer Sciences) represents teachers, educators, cooperatives, business, designers and nutritionists.The American Association of Family & Consumer Sciences (AAFCS) is the only national forum where K-12 teachers, university educators, and corporate executives collaborate to improve the quality of individual and family life.\n\nThe Association for Career and Technical Education (ACTE) is the largest American national education association dedicated to the advancement of education that prepared youth and adults for successful careers. ACTE's core purpose is to provide leadership in developing an educated, prepared, and competitive workforce. The ACTE division of Family and Consumer Sciences Education includes three sections (1) NATFACS - National Association Teachers of Family and Consumer Sciences (2) NATEFACS - National Association Teacher Educators of Family andy Consumer Sciences, andy (3) NASAFACS - National Association State Administrators of Family and Consumer Sciences.\n\nThe National Council on Family Relations, (NCFR) founded in 1938, is the oldest multidisciplinary, nonpartisan professional organization focused solely on family research, practice and education. They claim to be the premier professional association for the multidisciplinary understanding of families. The members’ interests—as diverse as their careers and backgrounds—are focused on topics and efforts that yield a common benefit: …understanding and strengthening families. NCFR members are professionals dedicated to understanding and strengthening families. The 3,400-plus members come from more than 35 countries and all 50 U.S. states, and include: researchers, demographers, marriage and family therapists, parent/family educators, university faculty, students, social workers, public health workers, extension specialists and faculty, ECFE teachers, clergy, counselors, K-12 teachers, and more.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25361713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25361713", "title": "Howard Hale Long", "text": "Howard Hale Long\n\nHoward Long (1888–1948) was born in New Ferry, Virginia in 1888 to Thomas and Annie Long. After attending Wayland Academy in Richmond, Virginia he went on to Howard University.\n\n\nFrom 1916-1917 Long began his career at Howard as an instructor before serving as an infantry first lieutenant in World War I. After the war Long went on to be Dean at Pain College in George. In 1923 he then served as Dean of the School of Education at Knoxville College. Proceeding that year, Long became the superintendent of the Washington D.C. public school system. Long served in this position from 1925-1948 when he retired.\n\nWhile in Washington D.C. Long published a series of research monographs for educational psychology and facilitated many ongoing research projects. According to Jones (1991), after retirement Long went on to serve as Dean of Administration at Wilberforce State College in Ohio.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2522934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2522934", "title": "Igor Moiseyev", "text": "Igor Moiseyev\n\nIgor Alexandrovich Moiseyev (; – 2 November 2007) has been widely acclaimed as the greatest 20th-century choreographer of character dance, a dance style similar to folk dance but with more professionalism and theatrics.\n\nBorn in Kiev, Russian Empire, he was the only child of a Russian lawyer and a French-Romanian seamstress. His family lived in Paris until he was 8, and throughout his life he spoke to Western journalists in fluent French. Moiseyev graduated from the Bolshoi Theatre ballet school in 1924 and danced in the theatre until 1939. His first choreography in the Bolshoi was \"Footballer\" in 1930 and the last was \"Spartacus\" in 1954.\n\nSince the early 1930s, he staged acrobatic parades on Red Square and finally came up with the idea of establishing the Theatre of Folk Art. In 1936, Vyacheslav Molotov put him in charge of the new dance company, which has since been known as the Moiseyev Ballet. Among about 200 dances he created for his company, some humorously represented the game of football and guerrilla warfare. After visiting Belarus he choreographed a Belarusian \"folk\" dance Bulba (\"Potato\"), which over the years indeed became a Belarusian folk dance. According to the Encyclopædia Britannica, Moiseyev's work has been especially admired \"for the balance that it maintained between authentic folk dance and theatrical effectiveness\".\n\nMoiseyev was named People's Artist of the USSR in 1953, Hero of Socialist Labor in 1976, received the Lenin Prize (1967, for the dance show \"A Road to the Dance\"), four Stalin/USSR State Prizes (1942, 1947, 1952, 1985), Russian Federation State Prize (1996), was awarded numerous orders and medals of the Soviet Union, Spain and many other countries. On the day of his centenary, Moiseyev became the first Russian to receive Order of Merit for the Fatherland, 1st class — the highest civilian decoration of the Russian Federation. In 2001, he was awarded the UNESCO Mozart Medal for outstanding contribution to world music culture. He died in Moscow on 2 November 2007 aged 101.\n\n\n\n\n\n! colspan=\"3\" style=\"background: red;\" | Ovation\n\n\n"}
{"id": "185493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=185493", "title": "Informal mathematics", "text": "Informal mathematics\n\nInformal mathematics, also called naïve mathematics, has historically been the predominant form of mathematics at most times and in most cultures, and is the subject of modern ethno-cultural studies of mathematics. The philosopher Imre Lakatos in his \"Proofs and Refutations\" aimed to sharpen the formulation of informal mathematics, by reconstructing its role in nineteenth century mathematical debates and concept formation, opposing the predominant assumptions of mathematical formalism. Informality may not discern between statements given by \"inductive reasoning\" (as in approximations which are deemed \"correct\" merely because they are useful), and statements derived by \"deductive reasoning\".\n\n\"Informal mathematics\" means any informal mathematical practices, as used in everyday life, or by aboriginal or ancient peoples, without historical or geographical limitation. Modern mathematics, exceptionally from that point of view, emphasizes formal and strict proofs of all statements from given axioms. This can usefully be called therefore \"formal mathematics\". Informal practices are usually understood intuitively and justified with examples—there are no axioms. This is of direct interest in anthropology and psychology: it casts light on the perceptions and agreements of other cultures. It is also of interest in developmental psychology as it reflects a naïve understanding of the relationships between numbers and things. Another term used for informal mathematics is folk mathematics, which is ambiguous; the mathematical folklore article is dedicated to the usage of that term among professional mathematicians.\n\nThe field of naïve physics is concerned with similar understandings of physics. People use mathematics and physics in everyday life, without really understanding (or caring) how mathematical and physical ideas were historically derived and justified.\n\nThere has long been a standard account of the development of geometry in ancient Egypt, followed by Greek mathematics and the emergence of deductive logic. The modern sense of the term \"mathematics\", as meaning only those systems justified with reference to axioms, is however an anachronism if read back into history. Several ancient societies built impressive mathematical systems and carried out complex calculations based on proofless heuristics and practical approaches. Mathematical facts were accepted on a pragmatic basis. Empirical methods, as in science, provided the justification for a given technique. Commerce, engineering, calendar creation and the prediction of eclipses and stellar progression were practiced by ancient cultures on at least three continents. N.C. Ghosh included Informal Mathematics in the list of Folk Mathematics.\n\n"}
{"id": "23104957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23104957", "title": "Johannesburg Planetarium", "text": "Johannesburg Planetarium\n\nThe Johannesburg Planetarium is a planetarium owned by the University of the Witwatersrand, located on the University's East Campus in Braamfontein, Johannesburg. It was the first full-sized planetarium in Africa, and the second in the southern hemisphere.\n\nThe idea of setting up a planetarium in Johannesburg was first discussed in 1956 when the Festival Committee — which had been instituted to organise the celebrations of Johannesburg's seventieth anniversary — decided to raise the funds necessary to buy and house a Zeiss planetarium to be set up for the celebrations. As there was too little time to obtain a new instrument, it was decided to buy an existing planetarium projector from Europe.\n\nAfter lengthy negotiations, the Festival Committee was successful in persuading the Parliament of Hamburg to sell their planetarium's projector which had been in use there since 1930. The Hamburg Parliament, however, imposed as its conditions that the planetarium's projector be fully modernised in the Zeiss factory at Oberkochen, and that Johannesburg would in due course have a new planetarium built for Hamburg. The Hamburg projector was immediately dismantled and moved to Oberkochen for an overhaul, and was in time completely rebuilt.\n\nSoon, the responsibilities of the Festival Committee were taken over by the Johannesburg City Council, which after further negotiations, sold the projector to the University of the Witwatersrand for use as both an academic facility for the instruction of students, and as a public amenity. Plans for a new building to house the projector were first drawn up in 1958, and construction began in 1959. The planetarium finally opened on 12 October 1960.\n\nThe Johannesburg Planetarium is often consulted by the media, and the public, in order to explain unusual occurrences in the skies over South Africa. In 2010, the Johannesburg Planetarium celebrated its golden jubilee.\n\n"}
{"id": "9725081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9725081", "title": "John Ash (writer)", "text": "John Ash (writer)\n\nJohn Ash (born 29 June 1948) is an expatriate British poet and writer.\n\nHis lifelong interest in Byzantium (especially its architecture) is a major theme which runs through his poetry, fiction and travel writing, along with family friends and the three major cities he has lived in. As well as his books (largely published by Carcanet), his work has appeared in \"The New Yorker\", \"The New York Times\", \"The Village Voice\", \"The Washington Post\" and \"Paris Review\".\n\nJohn Ash was born in Manchester, England in 1948, the son of schoolteachers. With a brief break to attend the University of Birmingham (B.A. 1969) and to take a post-graduation year in Cyprus, he remained in the city of his birth until 1985. In the notes to his first book, a sequence titled \"Casino\", Ash remarked that it had grown \"out of several years of research for another project - a prose work which was to have been called \"The Mauve Book: In Praise of Decadence\". He also noted that titles of some sections and the over-all structure had a musical analogy. Musical references continued in the books he published while still in England.\n\nMoving to New York City in 1985, Ash became associated with the New York School of poets and formed a strong and lasting friendship with its leading proponent, John Ashbery. After stints teaching at the University of Iowa and the University of California, Berkeley, he moved to Istanbul in 1996, where he has lived since, first teaching at Boğaziçi University, before moving to Kadir Has University.\n\nDuring this time several of his books, including \"Selected Works\" and \"To the City\", have appeared in Turkish translations, published by Yapi Kredi Publications, who are affiliated with the bank of the same name. Deluxe editions of \"The Anitolikon\", published in a side-by-side English and Turkish edition by Yapi Kredi, featured illustrations by Peter Hristoff, a noted Turkish artist of Bulgarian Christian origin living in New York.\n\nIn a review of \"To The City\", \"Poetry Magazine\" said that John Ash \"could be the best English poet of his generation\". In 2007 he was profiled in \"The Economist\" in an article by Hugh Pope, himself an author and formerly the \"Wall Street Journal\" correspondent in Istanbul. Pope has suggested that Ash is the leading light in a new \"Istanbul School\" of English-speaking poets taking their inspiration from the city.\n\nFollowing \"Byzantine Journey\", and other travel writing, Ash led tours the relevant sites and in 2006 wrote the script for the documentary \"Istanbul for Aficionados\". He has also appeared in a BBC guide to Istanbul, broadcast in 2005 on BBC Four's \"Mediterranean Tales\" strand.\n\n\n\n\n\nHis work has also appeared in a number of anthologies, including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11098892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11098892", "title": "Kailash Chandra Mishra", "text": "Kailash Chandra Mishra\n\nDr Kailash Chandra Mishra is known as a management teacher, orator, researcher and writer. He relocated from the Lal Bahadur Shastri Institute of Management, Delhi to take over as the first Vice Chancellor of Sri Sri University in Orissa founded by Sri Sri Ravishankar with patronage from Government of Odisha. The saga of his institution building is not without hurdles but the final outcome is in the interest of society.\n\nHis books include \"The Game is changing: Insurance Reloaded\"; \"Insurance Demystified: Reading beyond the lexicon\"; \"Medical Informatics: An exploration\"; \"Finance for family managed business and Financial Management: In the era of reforms\". He is a newspaper columnist and used to write a column every Saturday in DNA – Money – Comments. He has more than three hundred published papers in various national and international management journals. In 2008 he has published eight textbooks through Cengage learning (Previously Thomson learning) in New Delhi. These books include: \"Insurance Business Environment and Insurance Company operations\"; \"Life Insurance : Principles & Practice\"; \"General Insurance : Principles & Practice\"; \"Financial Management & Insurance Accounting\"; \"Elements of Actuarial Science\"; \"Legal & Regulatory Aspects of Insurance\"; \"Basics of Personal Financial Planning\"; and \"Life Insurance Underwriting\". Each of these books was coauthored by one of his doctoral students or management associates. He has also published in 2008 two other books through ICFAI Publication, namely \"Enjoying IIT-Jee\" and Organizational Adaptation – A tag study of General Insurance TAC in India\". In April 2011 he gave the ninth Odisha Swaviman Lecture \"Orissa Civil Society Begs for a Shake\", which was published as an Oriya book by the NGO \"Āma Oḍishā\" in Bhubaneswar.\n\nHe is credited with creating cited management frameworkslike \"Mishra's Seven A framework of insurance management\", first published in his book \"Insurance Reloaded\" ICFAI Publication, Hyderabad, India, \"APES framework for insurance organization\", first published in USA, Chamber and Partners' journal \"Mondaq.com\", \"Mishra theory of preference dynamics in investment\", first cited in his D.Litt. thesis \"Mutual Funds in the emerging market\", \"Seven P framework of underwriting\", first published in \"Asia Insurance Post, Mumbai, india and \"3L framework of retrocession planning\", first published in the journal \"Bima Quest\", Pune, India.\n\nIn various management schools he has founded, he has introduced some extramurals like BEAD (Business Etics Advancement and Development), MID (Management Intrapreneurship Development), STUDENT (Structuring The Unstructured by Discussion, Evolution, Negotiation and Training), POY (Power of You) and INLAB (Insurance Laboratory). At SPJIMR, ASCI and NIASOM, he introduced the concept of self-audit for management students – where the students takes responsibility for a part of his syllabus, topic, teacher, examination and examiner. Students' participation in management of business school is his avowed ideal. When enquired as to why he has not started any further experimentation at Lal Bahadur Shastri Institute of Management (LBSIM), of which he was the Director, he has an interesting response. Lal Bahadur Shastri's Himalayan legacy runs at LBSIM. Lal Bahadur Shastri was known for his simplicity, honesty, integrity and assertiveness. Anyone understanding these values and internalizing the principles as a way of life does not need any further extramurals. At Sri Sri University he has introduced a concept for management students called ADLOP (Assessment and Development of Leadership and Outreach Potential).\n\nBy qualification he is MSc in solid-state physics with three gold medals, MBA, CAIIB and Doctor of Literature (D.Litt)in Financial Management. In 2001, International Biographer's Association gave him the Best Citizen of India award (he was one of the ten recipients).\n\nHe has contributed largely to organizations like Bank of India, S P Jain Institute of Management and Research, Administrative Staff College of India, National Insurance Academy, Loss Prevention Association of India, Maharashtra State Cooperative Deposit Guarantee Corporation, Unit Trust of India Asset Management Company, UTI Ventures and Doha Bank Assurance Company. He has been a visiting Professor at international universities like Columbia University, University of Connecticut, CPCU Atlanta, Wharton's Aresty Business School, Yale University, S P JAIN CENTER OF MANAGEMENT (Dubai & Singapore), and Manchester Business School, among others. He took charge of first whistle blowing Ombudsperson of Mutual Funds at UTI. He was appointed by Government of India to be a special invitee equivalent of a Board member for CAG Audit of PSU Insurance Companies – the finding is available at CAG website as submitted to the President of India. Another institution he holds is Technical Director of Doha Bank Assurance Company and Audit Committee Chairman of the company, which is regulated by Qatar Financial Services Authority (QFSA). He was also technical director of a venture capital company at Bengaluru (UVS) and advisor to the chairman situated in UK of one of the largest MNC intermediary Marsh with office in India. He is an expert committee member of EPFO for pension reforms and is also associated with RBI and SEBI in regulatory best practices. This makes him one of the most versatile experts in financial sector of India. As the Director of LBSIM, he also used to oversee other activities associated with Lal Bahadur Shastri Trust, most important of which is Lal Bahadur Shastri Research Centre (LBSRC) undertaking public policy research both at National and international levels. He is engaged in establishing Sri Sri University in Orissa which is declared by the spiritual leader Sri Sri Ravishankar to recreate the ethos of ancient Indian Universities like Nalanda and Rajgiri with Modern teaching learning facilities.\n\nDr Mishra is from a village called Sriramachandrapur in Puri, a district of Orissa. Currently he advises several ministries of the Government of India and he has advised eight different ministries of the Government of India in the past. His concern for Micro finance and micro-insurance have been his strongest points apart from professional management education. In May 2008 Dr Mishra was appointed as a member of Planning Commission of India subgroup on Weather Insurance for Agriculture. As first vice chancellor of Sri Sri University, he has a task to recreate the ethos of ancient Indian Universities like Nalanda and Rajgiri as per vision enunciated by the spiritual leader Sri Sri Ravishankar.\n\nDr Mishra has the privilege of initiating LBS National award for 2009 on behalf of Lal Bahadur Shastri Institute of Management for Excellence in Public Administration, Academics and Management started in the nineties by the initiative of former union minister Mr Anil shastri, the son of Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri. The picture here shows Dr Mishra requesting the President of India to bestow the award for 2009 to Mr Sunil Bharti Mittal, the owner of largest telecom company in India.\n\nOne of the greatest national effort in India for ensuring inclusiveness in growth and providing much needed rural employment is MahaNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act). On 3 February 2010 Dr K C Mishra organized the submission of NREGA research report to the Vice President of India Mr Hamid Ansari.\n\nDr Shashi Tharoor, Former Union State External Affairs Minister of India discusses the developmental role of India in ensuring Regional peace and prosperity. Sharing the dias are Mr Anil Shastri, Mr Sunil Shastri and Dr K C Mishra.\n\nLal Bahadur Shastri was second prime minister of India. LBS National Award is given every year at President's House of India a day before birth day of Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri. Tenth LBS National Award was conferred on Mrs Aruna Roy, the pioneer for Right to Information Act and activist for woman empowerment in rural India as also ensuring food security for poor. Dr K C Mishra conducts the function in President's House on 1 October 2010.\n\nAfter bowing to the President of India Dr Mishra seeks President's permission to initiate the national award function:\n\n10th LBS National Awardee Mrs Aruna Roy delivers the acceptance speech with President Mrs Pratibha Patil, Anil Shastri (Son of Lal Bahadur Shastri), Christy Fernandes (Secretary to President) and Dr Kailash Chandra Mishra are in dias;\n\nPresident of India offers photo opportunity to National Awardee with Dr Kailash Chandra Mishra and Mr Anil Shastri as dignitaries look on:\n\nNational Insurance Academy bids farewell to Silver Jublee with the visit of the then President of India Dr A P J Abdul Kalam who is led to the Open Air Theatre by Dr K C Mishra as the then Director:\n\nSilver Jublee speech by Dr K C Mishra appraised by President Dr Abdul Kalam, the then Chief Minister of Maharashtra Vilas Rao Deshmukh and others:\n\nDr K C Mishra in an intimate discussion with the then President of India Dr Abdul Kalam:\n\nDr K C Mishra receives blessings of the Dalai Lama on 7 January 2011 at National Museum, Delhi:\n\nDalai Lama received by dignitaries – Dr K C Mishra says namaskar:\n\nPresident of India Smt Prativa Devi Patil and Chief Minister of Delhi Smt Sheila Dikhsit inaugurated Lal Bahadur Shastri Institute of Management, Dwarka Campus on 23 February 2011 five days before Dr K C Mishra relinquished the Directorship of the Institute to pursue a career aimed at setting up a spiritually robust University in Orissa sponsored by the Spiritual Leader Sri Sri Ravishankar.\n\nA picture of Dr K C Mishra and his spouse with Chief Minister of Delhi Smt Sheila Dikshit to peruse a show on life and times of Second Prime Minister of India Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri\n\nA picture of Dr K C Mishra with spiritual leader Sri Sri Ravishankar and former WIPRO COO Dr A L Rao announcing the developments of Sri Sri University\n\nA picture of Dr K C Mishra with spiritual leader Sri Sri Ravishankar of Art of Living fame at Sri Sri University where Dr Mishra's spouse is also present\n\n"}
{"id": "705949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=705949", "title": "Lester Horton", "text": "Lester Horton\n\nLester Horton (23 January 1906 – 2 November 1953) was an American dancer, choreographer, and teacher.\n\nLester Iradell Horton was born in Indianapolis, Indiana on January 23, 1906. His parents were Iradell and Pollyanna Horton.\n\nHis interest in dance was stimulated by his fascination with American Indian culture after watching tribal dances in a Wild West show. He studied the Iroquois and Red River Indians, and Penobscot and Ojibwa tribes.\n\nHe studied ballet for two years with a local teacher in Indianapolis, Theo Hewes. At that time he also took classes at the Herron Art Institute and worked with the Indianapolis Little Theater.\n\nSeeing a performance of the Denishawn company had a great impact on him.\n\nHorton arrived in California in 1929 to perform \"The Song of Hiawatha\", a dance-pageant by Clara Bates based on Longfellow's poem, at the Argus Bowl, a natural amphitheater in Eagle Rock.\n\nHe took a job with the sculptress Kathleen Stubergh, with whom he remained close for his lifetime. They produced wax figures and Horton painted faces on the window mannequins.\n\nHe chose to work in California instead of New York City, which was considered the center of modern dance at the time.\n\nIn 1931, Horton created his first solo concert choreography, \"Kootenai War Dance\". That same year he was invited to perform this dance along with a new choreography \"Voodoo Ceremonial\" at the Los Angeles Olympics. His success garnered an invitation to perform at the Paramount Theatre on the same bill as Judy Garland and the Garland sisters for a two-week run. In 1932, Lester Horton formed his own dance company called the Lester Horton Dancers. That company evolved into what was briefly known as the Lester Horton California Ballets (1934) and then the Horton Dance Group (1934). The Horton Dance Group, billed in its film appearances as the Lester Horton Dancers, lasted until early 1944. Later, Horton attempted to develop a company on the East Coast for dancer Sonia Shaw, but Shaw's husband stopped underwriting the venture and the company collapsed before it could give any public performances. After a brief hiatus, Horton formed the Dance Theater of Los Angeles with his longtime leading dancer, Bella Lewitzky; their partnership ended when Lewitzky left in 1950. Horton's final company continued until 1960 under the direction of Frank Eng.\n\nIn order to finance his school and various dance companies, Horton choreographed a number of Hollywood musicals, beginning with \"Moonlight in Havana\" (1942). Many of the films, like the Maria Montez vehicle \"White Savage\" (1943), were Universal productions, which could not rival the budgetary extravagance of MGM or Fox, though many were in Technicolor; the most notable was Arthur Lubin's \"Phantom of the Opera\" (1943). Horton's dancers also frequently worked at clubs, including the Folies Bergère in New York and Earl Carroll Theatre and Restaurant in Los Angeles. Horton's best-known works, which he called \"choreodramas,\" are \"Salome\" (which occupied Horton for nearly two decades) and \"The Beloved\".\n\nDance Theater made only one appearance in New York, during the last year of Horton's life. The troupe was scheduled to perform at the reputation-making theater of the Young Men's and young Women's Hebrew Association on East Ninety-second street in New York City. Upon arriving the troupe discovered the venue did not provide publicity and so the performance was largely unknown and not well attended. Only about 300 people showed for the Saturday night performance and only about 200 tickets were sold for the Sunday matinee. This netted the company a total of 100 dollars. All but one of the reviews were good. One magazine praised the \"superb dancers\" but complained that \"one technical and effective stunt follows another with hardly ever any sustained choreographic continuity.\" There was not enough money to return home from New York and Horton had doubts about the company's financial ability to attend Jacob's Pillow later that summer. Horton's agent wired Horton the money to get the troupe home. At the time, Horton was drinking heavily and was emotionally and physically ill. Upon returning to Los Angeles he moved into a house on Mulholland Drive where he was attended to by his parents and friends.\n\nDetermined to perform at the Jacob's Pillow festival, the group travelled to the Berkshires by car. The show was a success, though Horton could not afford to accompany the troupe to the festival. Riding on their success at the festival, the troupe was asked to open for Johnny Desmond in the Fall; they were so popular that they were invited back for another two-week engagement. Horton died of a heart attack at his home on November 2, 1953. Alvin Ailey briefly ran the company following Horton's death, but eventually moved to New York City, where in 1969 the Horton Technique became standard training for students at the Alvin Ailey American Dance Center\n\nSince Horton's death, his dance technique and choreography have become widely known and practiced. Horton's legacy has survived through the www.lhdt.org Lester Horton Dance Theater Foundation, Inc., which is dedicated to preserving and promoting Horton's contributions as a dancer, choreographer, and educator. Also, various dance companies such as the Joyce Trisler Danscompany focus on Horton's technique,\", as well as the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre and School.\n\nHorton choreographed the following films:\n\nHorton trained a number of significant mid-twentieth century dancers:\n\n\nOther figures who emerged from Horton's school and company include actress Lelia Goldoni and Sondra Kerr Blake. The founder of the Mattachine Society, Harry Hay, had a daughter who took classes at the dance theater. Janet Collins, a twenty year old ballet student (who would go on to be the first African American dancer to perform full-time with the Metropolitan Opera in New York) was one of the students approached by Horton to perform in exchange for free classes. Collins enthusiastically agreed, and yet admitted to Horton that she knew \"nothing about modern dance.\" Horton told her not to worry—he would teach her.\n\nHorton developed his own approach to dance that incorporated diverse elements including Native American Folk Dance, Japanese arm gestures, Javanese and Balinese isolations for the upper body, particularly the eyes, head and hands. Horton also included Afro-Caribbean elements, like hip circles.\n\nHorton's dance technique, which is now commonly known as \"Horton Technique\", has no style, per se. The technique emphasizes a whole body, anatomical approach to dance that includes flexibility, strength, coordination and body and spatial awareness to enable unrestricted, dramatic freedom of expression.\n\n\"I am sincerely trying now to create a dance technique based entirely upon corrective exercises, created with a knowledge of human anatomy; a technique which will correct physical faults and prepare a dancer for any type of dancing he may wish to follow; a technique having all the basic movements which govern the actions of the body; combined with a knowledge of the origin of movement and a sense of artistic design.\"\n-Lester Horton, in a letter to Dorathi Bock Pierre, \"From Primitive to Modern,\" American Dancer (October 1937)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47736064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47736064", "title": "Let's Make the Teacher Have a Miscarriage Club", "text": "Let's Make the Teacher Have a Miscarriage Club\n"}
{"id": "58134571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58134571", "title": "Margaret Wynne Lawless", "text": "Margaret Wynne Lawless\n\nMargaret Wynne Lawless (July 14, 1847 – January 18, 1926) was an American poet, author, educator, and philanthropist. She contributed to the \"Catholic World\", \"Ave Maria\", \"Rosary Magazine\", \"Pilot\", \"New World\", and conducted the children's department for a number of years of the \"Catholic Universe\". Lawless also contributed to \"Frank Leslie's Illustrated Newspaper\", \"Demorest Monthly Magazine\", \"The American Magazine\", \"Lippincott's Monthly Magazine\", \"Golden Days for Boys and Girls\", \"Detroit Free Press\" and \"Travelers' Record\". She was active in the cause of Catholic education and the development of Catholic charitable, literary and socialistic societies and institutions. Lawless incorporated and took out a charter for the Catholic Ladies of Ohio, the first insurance and benevolent society for women in the United States.\n\nMargaret Wynne was born in Adrian, Michigan, July 14, 1847. She was a daughter of John and Jane Meehan Wynne, both Irish Catholics. She passed her childhood and youth in Adrian.\n\nShe was educated in the public schools of Adrian, receiving in the Adrian High School a full collegiate classical and mathematical course modeled after the Amherat plan, attaining at an early age great proficiency, especially in the classics, Latin and Greek, and graduating when fourteen years old. Up to that time, she had shown no especial literary taste, but when she went back to her alma mater to take a post-graduate course, she intermingled with her studies a rhymed translation of the first of the \"Satires of Horace\".\n\nAfter graduating from school she taught for several years. In 1873, she married Dr. James Thomas Lawless (1844–1932), a practicing physician in Toledo, Ohio. They made their home in Toledo, and had eight sons.\n\nShe began writing poetry in 1886, sending poems and fiction to eastern magazines, where they found ready acceptance and fair remuneration. A few years passed away, and then a nearly mortal illness forced her to give up writing, as she supposed, forever.\n\nAfter several years of raising a family, she again set forth her work as a writer, this time with a clearer perception of the meaning of life, with a better understanding of her own powers, and with higher purposes. Before, she wrote for the mere pleasure of writing, with her later writings there was a message for her to deliver, and it came most readily and clearly in lines glowing with poetic fervor.\n\nLawless was not a prolific writer, but her name was not a stranger in many of the leading magazines and papers of the country in her time, such as \"The Catholic World\", \"Ave Maria\", \"Rosary Magazine\", \"Pilot\", \"New World\", \"Catholic Universe\" (of which she conducted the Children's Dept. for a number of years), as well as to the following secular publications, \"Our Youth\", \"Frank Leslie's Weekly\", \"Weekly Wisconsin\", \"Demorest's\", \"American Magazine\", \"Lippincott's\", \"Golden Days\", \"Detroit Free Press\", and \"Traveler's Record\". She never published a book of her poems, but was engaged in compiling her writings with that end in view. Both she and her husband were active workers in the cause of Catholic education and the development of Catholic charitable, literary and socialistic societies and institutions. Lawless incorporated and took out a charter for the Catholic Ladies of Ohio, the first insurance and benevolent society for women in the United States, and was for six years secretary of this organization.\n\nLawless died January 18, 1926, in Toledo, and was buried in that town's Calvary Cemetery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51022234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51022234", "title": "Middle East Materials Project", "text": "Middle East Materials Project\n\nFounded in 1987, the Middle East Materials Project (MEMP) works to provide digital and microform copies of rare, hard-to-obtain, and expensive research materials related to Middle Eastern Studies. The main goal is to obtain delicate and deteriorating documents in order to digitally record and preserve them, so that researchers may find materials not common to other research libraries. MEMP's coverage includes Arab countries, Israel, Turkey, Iran, as well as other areas with related materials that do not have a functioning materials project.\n\nMEMP's collection includes over 100 newspaper titles in Arabic, Turkish, and English, a large number of Sudanese and Turkish papers, microfilms of documents about the Middle East from the Library of Congress, and microfilms from the Cosro Chaqeri Collection of Iranian Left-wing Materials. MEMP has also worked with Fawzy W. Khoury and Michelle Bates to compile the \"Middle East in Microform: a Union List of Middle Eastern Microforms in North American Libraries\" (University of Washington Libraries, 1992), a revised and expanded version of \"National Union Catalog of Middle Eastern Microforms\" (University of Washington Libraries, 1989).\n\n"}
{"id": "26670611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26670611", "title": "Ministry of National Education (Algeria)", "text": "Ministry of National Education (Algeria)\n\nThe Ministry of National Education (, ) is the Algerian ministry in charge of education in Algeria. Its head office is in El Mouradia, Algiers Province, near Algiers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23535552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23535552", "title": "Murder of Marta Russo", "text": "Murder of Marta Russo\n\nMarta Russo was a 22-year-old student at the Faculty of Law at the Sapienza University of Rome, who was killed within the University grounds. Her death was the centre of a complex court case that garnered huge media attention owing to the lack of substantial evidence and motive. \n\nAfter a six-years-long trial Giovanni Scattone was found guilty of involuntary manslaughter, and Salvatore Ferraro was declared responsible for aiding and abetting. Other accused man, Francesco Liparota, was acquitted, then convicted in appeal, and then dismissed by all allegations.\n\nOn 9 May 1997, at about 11:42, a 0.22 calibre bullet hit Marta Russo while she walked with a friend on the university's grounds, in a driveway located between the faculties of Statistical Sciences, Law and Political Science. The girl was transported to the nearby Policlinico Umberto I, but she died on 14 May without regaining consciousness. Parents donated the organs, respecting Marta's desire expressed a few years, speaking about the death of Nicholas Green.\n\nForensic tests showed traces of gunpowder on the sill of a window on the second floor, a reading room in the legal philosophy department. Afterwards (1998), a forensic expert established that such residues were not gunpowder but residual pollution. \n\nThe circle tightened around the 25 or so people who often used the room to consult textbooks or use computers. Telephone records identified one person, Maria Chiara Lipari, daughter of a professor, that indicated after many uncertainties the presence of a secretary, Gabriella Alletto, and other people. After an interrogation threatened to be arrested for voluntary murder, Gabriella Alletto, after conflicting testimony, implicated Giovanni Scattone, age 29, and Salvatore Ferraro, age 30, who were junior lecturers in the legal philosophy department of Rome's La Sapienza University, and Francesco Liparota, usher and graduate in law. Neither had a criminal record nor a reason to murder Ms. Russo. The woman accused also professor Bruno Romano of reticence, then he defended by well-known lawyers Franco Coppi and Giulia Bongiorno (future lawyer of Amanda Knox's former boyfriend Raffaele Sollecito, in the case of murder of Meredith Kercher).\n\nThen, a videotape with the interrogation, recorded by secret services, came out, showing the stages of interrogation and presence of Alletto's brother-in-law (a policeman), who told her she should have accused some suspects, even though \"maybe she did not see it materially\" the scene of shooting, because \"it's best to let them do the crime\". The recording also showed the prosecutors warning her, saying \"You are guilty of murder\" and \"you will never again come out of prison\".\n\nPrime minister Romano Prodi criticized these facts and describes as \"very serious matter\" the behaviour of two prosecutors, Mr. Italo Ormanni e and Mr. Carlo Lasperanza. Even Silvio Berlusconi's opposition attacks the prosecutors.\n\nThe Italian public has been divided on the guilt of the accused. Some famous personalities (like judge of Aldo Moro kidnapping Ferdinando Imposimato, politician Marco Pannella ad journalist Paolo Mieli) claim the innocence of Scattone and Ferraro and publicy defend them. The trial, which, lasted over a year, followed by long appeals, involved investigations into prosecutorial misconduct and possible threatening of witnesses, and questioning the credibility of the main witnesses for the prosecution. Criminal court of Perugia, howewer, absolved the prosecutors from the accusation of abuse of office, threat and private violence against Gabriella Alletto.\n\nPolice could not find an ordinary motive for killing Russo. She had no history of drug abuse, no outspoken political or religious convictions and no jilted lovers in her past. Instead, they proposed the intellectual challenge of committing a perfect murder, a crime for which one could not be prosecuted partly because of its apparent lack of motive.\n\nThe media seemed to focus on the possibility that the killing had been a dare about committing a \"perfect crime\", or that it was a Nietzschean compulsion to be a Übermensch, a Raskolnikov figure. \n\nThis motive was denied by the accused, and no proof of this has founded, so the court will condemn them with light sentences of only involuntary manslaughter. According to the judgment, Scattone had a pistol in his hand for unknown reasons, and accidentally took a shot. With panic, Scattone and Ferraro would run away and then hide the weapon.\n\nSome alternative paths were discarded, including the one involving a Red Brigades member (May 9th was the anniversary of murder of Aldo Moro in 1978) discovered in 2003, the possible organized criminality's involvement (person exchange) and the path of some university and cleaning firms employees and workers, that have the passion for firearms and handmaded silencers and shell casings.\n\nThe case gained huge attention in the media, owing to the apparent indiscriminate nature in which the victim was targeted. The public was so interested that court proceedings were broadcast live on radio. Campus killings were unheard of in Italy, leading to parents of students being so scared for their children that they insisted on them wearing motorcycle helmets while outside. More than 10,000 students attended Russo's funeral, joined by the Prime Minister Prodi, the Italian President Oscar Luigi Scalfaro and other dignitaries. The Pope John Paul II sent a message of condolence.\n\nAcademics were banned from speaking directly to the press.\n\nThe trial began in June 1998; some neutral forensics affirmed during the trial the innocence of Scattone and Ferraro, arguing that the shot was fired from the ground floor, while Liparota revealed that he was threatened by the police to accuse his colleagues; initially confirm the allegations, then retracted by saying that he had not seen anything. There was a precise telephone bill that, combined with other testimonial reports also, denied many details of the story of Maria Chiara Lipari and indirectly the allegations of Alletto.\n\nFinally, the public prosecutor's office demanded a 18-year prison sentence for voluntary murder, with mitigating effects as no premeditation would have been made, but it would have been possible (\"dolo eventuale\", in Italian \"eventual malice\", a less serious case of murder). In December both defendants had been released and placed in house arrest until judgment. \n\nIn June 1999, jury rejected the attorney's requests and Giovanni Scattone was convicted of involuntary manslaughter of Russo, caused by his criminal negligence or carelessness (Italian \"colpa cosciente\" which can be translated as \"conscious fault\"), and Salvatore Ferraro was convicted of aiding and abetting Scattone.\n\nAfter a confirming appeal (2001), surprisingly at request of another prosecutor, Court's Attorney General Vincenzo Geraci, the verdict was annulled by the Supreme Court of Cassation for lack of evidence (December 2001); a new appeal reiterated the conviction (2002), then confirmed definitively in 2003 (finally, the punishment consisted to 5 years and four months of prison for Giovanni Scattone, 4 years and two months to Salvatore Ferraro). Scattone and Ferraro have always claimed to be innocent, and to have been stuck with outright testimony. Instead, the supreme court dismissed Francesco Liparota (overturning his previously conviction for complicity) - because he was not punishable at the time, according to the judges he would have covered the shot because he was too scared - and, previously, acquitted even Bruno Romano.\n\nAfter a penalty discount, Scattone ended up serving the sentence in prison (2003-2004) and to house arrest until 2005; later, having the court granted him the complete legal criminal rehabilitation, eliminating perpetual interdictions from public offices, he became a high school professor of philosophy until 2015, when he got regular work of psychology teacher, but resigned following the controversy by press and Russo family. He wrote some essays and translations; in 2001, Scattone married Cinzia Giorgio, writer and scriptwriter. Salvatore Ferraro devoted himself to political activism and to the activity of lawyer and bookseller. Scattone and Ferraro were also sentenced to civil compensation of 1 million euro to Marta Russo's parents and sister (2011).\n"}
{"id": "1468605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1468605", "title": "Nancy Friday", "text": "Nancy Friday\n\nNancy Colbert Friday (August 27, 1933 – November 5, 2017) was an American author who wrote on the topics of female sexuality and liberation.\n\nHer writings argue that women have often been reared under an ideal of womanhood, which was outdated and restrictive, and largely unrepresentative of many women's true inner lives, and that openness about women's hidden lives could help free women to truly feel able to enjoy being themselves. She asserts that this is not due to deliberate malice, but due to social expectation, and that for women's and men's benefit alike it is healthier that both be able to be equally open, participatory and free to be accepted for who and what they are.\n\nNancy Friday was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, the daughter of Walter F. Friday and Jane Colbert Friday (later Scott). She grew up in Charleston, South Carolina, and attended the only local girls' college-preparatory school, Ashley Hall, where she graduated in 1951. She then attended Wellesley College in Massachusetts, where she graduated in 1955. She worked briefly as a reporter for the \"San Juan Island Times\" and subsequently established herself as a magazine journalist in New York, England, and France before turning to writing full-time.\n\nHer first book, published in 1973, was \"My Secret Garden\", a compilation of her interviews with women discussing their sexuality and fantasies, which became a bestseller. Friday regularly returned to the interview format in her subsequent books on themes ranging from mothers and daughters to sexual fantasies, relationships, jealousy, envy, feminism, BDSM, and beauty. After the publication of \"The Power of Beauty\" (released in 1996, and then renamed and re-released in paperback form in 1999), she wrote little, contributing an interview of porn star Nina Hartley to \"XXX: 30 Porn Star Portraits\", a book published in 2004 by photographer Timothy Greenfield-Sanders, with her final book being \"Beyond My Control: Forbidden Fantasies in an Uncensored Age\", published in 2009.\n\nThroughout the 1980s and early 1990s she was a frequent guest on television and radio programs such as \"Politically Incorrect\", \"Oprah\", \"Larry King Live\", \"Good Morning America\", and NPR's \"Talk of the Nation\". She also created a website in the mid-1990s, to complement the publication of \"The Power of Beauty.\" Initially conceived as a forum for the development of new work and interaction with her diverse audience, it was not updated in later years.\n\nDespite the judgment of \"Ms.\" magazine (\"This woman is not a feminist\"), she predicated her career on the belief that feminism and the appreciation of men are not mutually exclusive concepts.\n\nFriday explained how \"in the late 1960s I chose to write about women's sexual fantasies because the subject was unbroken ground, a missing piece of the puzzle ... at a time in history when the world was suddenly curious about sex and women's sexuality.\" The backdrop was a widespread belief that \"women do not have sexual fantasies ... are by and large destitute of sexual fantasy.\"\n\nFriday considered that \"more than any other emotion, guilt determined the story lines of the fantasies in \"My Secret Garden\" . . . women inventing ploys to get past their fear that wanting to reach orgasm made them Bad Girls.\" Her later book, \"My Mother/My Self,\" 'grew immediately out of \"My Secret Garden\" 's questioning of the source of women's terrible guilt about sex.\"\n\nWhen she returned 20 years later to her original topic of women's fantasies in \"Women on Top,\" it was in the belief that \"the sexual revolution\" had stalled: \"it was the greed of the 1980s that dealt the death blow . . . the demise of healthy sexual curiosity.\"\n\nFriday, like other feminists, was especially concerned with the controlling role of the images of \"Nice Woman . . . Nice Girl\"—of being \"bombarded from birth with messages about what a 'good woman' is . . . focused so hard and so long on never giving in to 'selfishness.'\" However, as feminism itself developed \"a stunning array of customs, opinions, moral values, and beliefs about how the world of women . . . should conduct itself,\" so too it ran into the difficulty of moralism versus human nature—the fact that \"feminism—any political philosophy—does not adequately address sexual psychology\" eventually sparking the 'feminist \"sex wars\" . . . from the early 1980s\" onwards. Against that backdrop, Friday's evidential and empirical concerns continue to address the \"open question of how many of their sexual freedoms the young women . . . will retain, how deeply they have incorporated them.\"\n\n\"Critics have labeled Friday's books unscientific, because the author solicited responses,\" thus potentially biasing the contributor pool.\n\n\"My Secret Garden\" was greeted by a \"salvo from the media accusing me of inventing the whole book, having made up all the fantasies\"; \"My Mother/My Self\" was \"initially . . . violently rejected by both publishers and readers\"; while \"Women on Top\" \"was heavily criticized for its graphic and sensational content.\"\n\nFriday was also criticized for her reaction to the Bill Clinton/Monica Lewinsky affair, which critics interpreted as sexist. The journalist Jon Ronson wrote, \"In February 1998, the feminist writer Nancy Friday was asked by the \"New York Observer\" to speculate on Lewinsky's future. 'I want to rent out my mouth for two bits an hour wink wink,' she replied.\"\n\nFriday married novelist Bill Manville in 1967, separated from him in 1980, and divorced him in 1986. Her second husband was Norman Pearlstine, formerly the editor in chief of Time Inc.. They were married at the Rainbow Room in New York City on July 11, 1988, and divorced in 2005.\n\nIn 2011, Friday sold her home in Key West and moved to New York City.\n\nNancy Friday died at her home in Manhattan on November 5, 2017 from complications of Alzheimer's disease. She was 84.\n\n\nKeith, June (November 7, 2017). \"Nancy Friday's Saturday Sale (blog)\". juneinparadise.blogspot.com. June Keith via Blogspot.[self-published source]\n\n"}
{"id": "635665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=635665", "title": "Norfolk State University", "text": "Norfolk State University\n\nNorfolk State University (NSU) is a public four-year, coed, liberal arts, historically black university located in Norfolk, Virginia. The university is a member-school of Thurgood Marshall College Fund and the Virginia High-Tech Partnership.\n\nThe Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools has accredited Norfolk State to award associate, baccalaureate, master and doctoral degrees. Currently, Norfolk State offers two doctorate and 15 master's degrees, including master's degree programs in Electronic Engineering, Computer Science, and Criminal Justice. The school also offers 36 undergraduate degrees, including the only undergraduate degree in Optical Engineering in Virginia.\n\nNorfolk State's undergraduate and graduate programs are divided into eight schools/colleges.\n\nThe institution was founded on September 18, 1935 as the Norfolk Unit of Virginia Union University. Eighty-five students attended the first classes held in 1935. Mr. Samuel Fischer Scott, an alumnus of Virginia Union and Portsmouth native, served as the first director with the primary focus of maintaining the solvency of the school. Dr. Lyman Beecher Brooks, a Virginia Union alumnus, succeeded Mr. Scott as director in 1938, and served as provost, 1963–1969, and the first president 1969–1975.\n\nIn 1942, the school became independent of VSU and was named Norfolk Polytechnic College. Within two years, by an act of the Virginia Legislature, it became a part of Virginia State College (now Virginia State University). By 1950, the 15th anniversary of the college founding, the faculty had grown to fifty and the student enrollment to 1,018. In 1952, the college's athletic teams adopted the \"Spartan\" name and identity.\n\nThe City of Norfolk provided a permanent site for the college on Corprew Avenue, and in 1955 Brown Hall, formerly Tidewater Hall, opened as the first permanent building on the new campus. In 1956 the future Norfolk State College granted its first bachelor's degrees.\n\nIn 1969, the college divided from Virginia State College and was named Norfolk State College. The college was issued accreditation from the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools the same year with an enrollment of 5,400 students. In 1975 and the year following, the first master's degrees were awarded in Communications and Social Work, respectively. Dr. Harrison Benjamin Wilson, Jr., in 1975, succeeded Dr. Lyman Beecher Brooks as President after 37 years.\n\nWhen the college was granted university status in 1979 by the General Assembly of Virginia, it changed its name to Norfolk State University.\n\nNorfolk State University celebrated its 50th anniversary in 1985 with a year of observances and with an enrollment of 7,200. In 1995 Norfolk State University's enrollment reached 9,112.\n\nUpon the retirement of Dr. Harrison Benjamin Wilson in 1997, Dr. Marie Valentine McDemmond, became NSU's third President in 1997 and served until her retirement. Dr. Alvin J. Schexnider became interim president in July 2005. Dr. Carolyn Winstead Meyers was selected as the fourth President and began service on July 1, 2006. Dr. Tony Atwater was announced as the new president in 2011 becoming the fifth president and served until he was removed by the board of visitors of Norfolk State University on August 23, 2013. Dr. Sandra DeLoatch the Provost and President of Academic Affairs was named acting president effective. On September 13, 2013, Eddie N. Moore Jr. was appointed interim president of Norfolk State University and started serving in that capacity on September 23, 2013.\n\nIn December 2013, the university was placed on probation by its regional accreditor, the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools, for \"financial and governance issues.\" The probation was lifted two years later.\n\nEddie Moore, Jr. became the 6th president of Norfolk State University on January 10, 2016.\n\nUpon President Moore announcing his retirement in late September 2017 the NSU board of visitors named Dr. Melvin Stith as interim president. He will assume office on January 1, 2018.\n\nLocated on the former site of the Memorial Park Golf Course, which the city of Norfolk sold to the school for one dollar, the campus now encompasses of land and 31 buildings.\nThe Joseph G. Echols Memorial Hall is a large health, physical education, and ROTC complex with a seating capacity of 7,500. Other facilities include a 30,000-seat football stadium; a television studio and radio station, an African art museum, and a multi-purpose performing arts center. Research facilities include a life sciences building with a planetarium and a materials research wing with crystal growth, organic synthesis, laser spectroscopy, and magnetic resonance equipment.\n\nIn September 2009, the New Student Center facility opened. The three story building, which includes a game room, a dining area, a new bookstore, a wellness center (work-out facility), student lounges, and administrative offices, marks the first of two major projects for NSU.\n\nConstruction on a New Nursing and General Classroom Building is underway and scheduled to open in 2014, . Other recent construction on the campus includes the new police station (2007), the Marie V. McDemmond Center for Applied Research (2006), and the Spartan Suites Apartments (2005), and state-of-the-art Library (2012).\n\nThe university offers organized and informal co-curricular activities including 63 student organizations, leadership workshops, intramural activities, student publications and student internships.\n\nNorfolk State sports teams participate in NCAA Division I (Football Championship Subdivision for all sports including football) in the Mid-Eastern Athletic Conference (MEAC). Norfolk State was formerly a member of the Eastern Intercollegiate Conference (1953–1960) and the Central Intercollegiate Athletic Association (1962–1996).\n\nThe 2011–12 Norfolk State Spartans men's basketball team won the 2012 MEAC Men's Basketball Tournament championship which gave them the conference's automatic bid in the 2012 NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament, the school's first ever appearance in the tournament. The Spartans, a 15 seed, defeated the #2 seeded Missouri Tigers in the second round, 86-84. This victory was only the fifth time in NCAA Tournament history that a 15 seed defeated a 2 seed, with the last coming in 2001 by MEAC in-state rival Hampton.\n\nThe Marching Spartan Legion Band performs at campus events and during Norfolk State football games. They were featured performers in the Honda Battle of the Bands in 2007 and 2008.\n\nAll nine of the National Pan-Hellenic Council organizations currently have chapters at Norfolk State University. These organizations are:\n\nThe Council of Independent Organizations includes:\n\n\"The Spartan Echo\" is the official student-produced newspaper of Norfolk State University. The paper is available in print (available twice a month) and on the web (updated daily).\n\nNorfolk State operates WNSB(FM) radio, which broadcasts in stereo 24 hours a day from the campus and covers all of the Hampton Roads, Virginia area, reaching the Eastern Shore of Virginia, northeast North Carolina and the Richmond, Virginia suburbs. Established on and known as \"Hot 91.1\", WNSB's programming is also broadcast via the internet.\n\nThis list of notable faculty and staff contains current and former faculty, staff and presidents of the Norfolk State University.\n\nThis is a partial list of notable alumni which includes graduates, non-graduate former students, and current students of Norfolk State University or predecessors such as Norfolk State College.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22756", "title": "Otto Jespersen", "text": "Otto Jespersen\n\nJens Otto Harry Jespersen (; 16 July 1860 – 30 April 1943) was a Danish linguist who specialized in the grammar of the English language.\n\nOtto Jespersen was born in Randers in Jutland. He was inspired by the work of Danish philologist Rasmus Rask as a boy, and with the help of Rask's grammars taught himself some Icelandic, Italian, and Spanish. He entered the University of Copenhagen in 1877 when he was 17, initially studying law but not forgetting his language studies. In 1881 he shifted his focus completely to languages, and in 1887 earned his master's degree in French, with English and Latin as his secondary languages. He supported himself during his studies through part-time work as a schoolteacher and as a shorthand reporter in the Danish parliament. In 1887–1888, he traveled to England, Germany and France, meeting linguists like Henry Sweet and Paul Passy and attending lectures at institutions like Oxford University. Following the advice of his mentor Vilhelm Thomsen, he returned to Copenhagen in August 1888 and began work on his doctoral dissertation on the English case system. He successfully defended his dissertation in 1891.\n\nJespersen was a professor of English at the University of Copenhagen from 1893 to 1925, and served as Rector of the university in 1920–21. His early work focused primarily on language teaching reform and on phonetics, but he is best known for his later work on syntax and on language development.\n\nHe advanced the theories of \"Rank\" and \"Nexus\" in Danish in two papers: \"Sprogets logik\" (1913) and \"De to hovedarter af grammatiske forbindelser\" (1921). Jespersen in this theory of ranks removes the parts of speech from the syntax, and differentiates between primaries, secondaries, and tertiaries; e.g. in \"\"well honed phrase\",\" \"phrase\" is a primary, this being defined by a secondary, \"honed\", which again is defined by a tertiary \"well\". The term \"Nexus\" is applied to sentences, structures similar to sentences and sentences in formation, in which two concepts are expressed in one unit; e.g., \"it rained, he ran indoors\". This term is qualified by a further concept called a \"junction\" which represents one idea, expressed by means of two or more elements, whereas a nexus combines two ideas. Junction and nexus proved valuable in bringing the concept of context to the forefront of the attention of the world of linguistics.\n\nHe was most widely recognized for some of his books. \"Language: Its Nature, Development and Origin\" (1922) is considered by many to be his masterpiece. \"Modern English Grammar on Historical Principles\" (1909–1949), concentrated on morphology and syntax, and \"Growth and Structure of the English Language\" (1905) is a comprehensive view of English by someone with another native language, and still in print, over 70 years after his death and more than 100 years after publication. Late in his life he published \"Analytic Syntax\" (1937), in which he presents his views on syntactic structure using an idiosyncratic shorthand notation. In \"The Philosophy of Grammar\" (1924) he challenged the accepted views of common concepts in Grammar and proposed corrections to the basic definitions of grammatical case, pronoun, object, voice etc., and developed further his notions of \"Rank\" and \"Nexus\". In the 21st century this book is still used as one of the basic texts in modern Structural linguistics. \"Mankind, Nation and Individual: from a linguistic point of view\" (1925) is one of the pioneering works on Sociolinguistics.\n\nJespersen visited the United States twice: he lectured at the Congress of Arts and Sciences in St. Louis in 1904, and in 1909–1910 he visited both the University of California and Columbia University. While in the U.S., he took occasion to study the country's educational system. His autobiography (see below) was published in English translation as recently as 1995.\n\nJespersen was a proponent of phonosemanticism and wrote: “Is there really much more logic in the opposite extreme which denies any kind of sound symbolism (apart from the small class of evident echoisms and ‘onomatopoeia’) and sees in our words only a collection of accidental and irrational associations of sound and meaning? ...There is no denying that there are words which we feel instinctively to be adequate to express the ideas they stand for.”\n\nAfter his retirement in 1925, Jespersen remained active in the international linguistic community. In addition to continuing to write, he convened and chaired the first International Meeting on Linguistic Research in Geneva in 1930, and acted as president of the Fourth International Congress of Linguists in Copenhagen in 1936.\n\nJespersen was an important figure in the international language movement. He was an early supporter of the Esperanto offshoot Ido and in 1927 published his own project Novial. He also worked with the International Auxiliary Language Association.\n\nJespersen received honorary degrees from Columbia University in New York (1910), St. Andrews University in Scotland (1925), and the Sorbonne in Paris (1927). He was one of the first six international scholars to be elected as honorary members of the Linguistic Society of America.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32304228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32304228", "title": "Pakistani students abroad", "text": "Pakistani students abroad\n\nThere are hundreds and thousands of Pakistani students who travel abroad each year in order to attain higher education. Countries which have large Pakistani international student populations include those in Europe, North America, China and Australia. Every year, nearly 10,000 foreign student visas are granted in Pakistan.\n\nAccording to various reports, there are nearly 10,000 Pakistani students studying in the United Kingdom. All in all, between 2004 and 2008, as many as 42,000 Pakistani students were admitted into the UK. There is an Oxford University Pakistan Society at the University of Oxford as well as Strathclyde University Pakistan Society at University of Strathclyde Glasgow.\n\nAs of 2011, there were 5,045 Pakistani students in the United States, putting Pakistan among the top 25 countries sending students to the U.S. The volume of Pakistani students migrating to the United States has been relatively stable over the past few years. \"The Express Tribune\" reports that the drop in the number of Pakistani students in the United States following the September 11 attacks is a myth and observes that the numbers going to the US for study have simply decreased due to an increase in more higher education institutions opening back home. According to Shazia Khan, \"In the last 10 years, there has been an increase in the number of higher education institutes in Pakistan. This encourages many students to study in the country and not apply abroad\".\n\nThere are many Pakistani students enrolled in different Portuguese universities. Most of the students are doing their doctoral degrees. The medium of instruction for master's degree (5 years) is Portuguese but doctoral level research is in English. Most of the students have scholarship from the Portuguese Foundation of Science and Technology. Some of the programs are specifically designed for foreign students like the programs offered by the MAP consortium.\n\nChina also attracts a large number of students from Pakistan, with 2006 estimates putting their number well over 1,000; in Xinjian alone, there are over 500 Pakistanis in universities. In total, there are over 5,000 Pakistani medical students studying in China as of September 2012.\n\nIn 2016, there were 19,000 Pakistani students in China, making Pakistan the fourth largest source of international students in the country. The main disciplines of studies pursued included medicine, engineering, economics and management.\n\nThere are some 1,000 Pakistani medical students in Cuba. They are on scholarships under a program between the Cuban government and the Higher Education Commission (HEC) of Pakistan. Presently, these students are enrolled in three leading Medical Universities of Cuba named Universidad de Ciencias Médicas Villa Clara, Universidad de Ciencias Médicas Sancti Spiritus and Universidad de Ciencias Médicas Cienfuegos.\nIn February 2014 the first batch of 295 students graduated from the University of Villa Clara. The ceremony was held in the presence of ambassador of Pakistan in Cuba and vice minister of Cuba for health.\n\nNowadays Germany is also a choice of many Pakistani Students to study. The only barrier that students face is the language. Although some study programs are in English but they have to learn German Language for their daily life. There are both undergraduate and graduate programs available. But those who are undergraduate have to do one-year program Studienkolleg.\n\nThere are over 2,000 Pakistani students of medicine in the Central Asian state of Kyrgyzstan. In Australia, there were 1,626 Pakistani students as of 2005; this figure increased to 11,000 as of 2012. A report in 2012 showed that Pakistan was becoming the \"top growth market\" for international students choosing to study in Australia, ranking 10th.\n\nThere are about 100 Pakistani students in the National University of Singapore in Singapore, Studying: many subjects such as: Health, Engineering, Computer Science, Law etc.\n\nThere are also significant number of Pakistani students in Bangladesh, mainly studying in the fields of medicine and dentistry. As of 2012, there were 80 registered Pakistani students in several Bangladeshi medical and dental colleges, studying under the SAARC quota. Every year, the government of Pakistan sends 14 students to study medicine in Bangladesh, selected by a test of National Testing Service and approved by the Ministry of Education of Pakistan.\n\nPoland also attracts students from Pakistan, studying mostly: Health and Medicine \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1213355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1213355", "title": "Reciprocity (social psychology)", "text": "Reciprocity (social psychology)\n\nIn social psychology, reciprocity is a social norm of responding to a positive action with another positive action, rewarding kind actions. As a social construct, reciprocity means that in response to friendly actions, people are frequently much nicer and much more cooperative than predicted by the self-interest model; conversely, in response to hostile actions they are frequently much more nasty and even brutal.\n\nReciprocity makes it possible to build continuing relationships and exchanges. Fukiyama states that “If the institutions of democracy and capitalism are to work properly, they must coexist within certain premodern cultural habits that ensure their proper functioning” (p. 11). He goes on to say “Law, contract, and economic rationality and prosperity…. must as well be leavened with reciprocity, moral obligation, duty toward community, and trust…. The latter are not anachronisms in a modern society but rather the sine qua non of the latter’s success” (p. 11) According to the sociologist Alvin Gouldner (1960), this norm is nearly universal, and only a few members of society—the very young, the sick, or the old—are exempt from it.\n\nReciprocal actions differ from altruistic actions in that reciprocal actions only follow from others' initial actions, while altruism is the unconditional act of social gift-giving without any hope or expectation of future positive responses. Some distinguish between ideal altruism (giving with no expectation of future reward) and reciprocal altruism (giving with limited expectation or the potential for expectation of future reward). For more information on this idea, see altruism or altruism (ethics).\n\nReciprocity dates as far back as the time of Hammurabi (c. 1792–1750 BC). Hammurabi's code, a collection of 282 laws and standards, lists crimes and their various punishments as well as guidelines for citizens' conduct. The code was formalized example that demanded the individual act in terms of the public interest. The \"eye for an eye\" principles in which the laws were written mirror the idea of direct reciprocity. For example, if a person caused the death of another person, the killer would be put to death:\n\nLaw #196: \"If a man destroy the eye of another man, they shall destroy his eye. If one break a man's bone, they shall break his bone. If one destroy the eye of a freeman or break the bone of a freeman he shall pay one gold mina. If one destroy the eye of a man's slave or break a bone of a man's slave he shall pay one-half his price.\"\n\nReciprocity was also a cornerstone of ancient Greece. In Homeric Greece, citizens relied on reciprocity as a form of transaction as there was no formal system of government or trade. In Homer's \"Iliad\", he illustrates several instances of reciprocal transactions in the form of gift giving. For example, in Book VI of the Iliad, Glaucus and Diomedes exchange armor when they discover that their grandfathers were friends. However, there were times when direct reciprocity was not possible, specifically in times of great need when a citizen had nothing to give for repayment. Thus, deferred reciprocity was also prevalent in Greek culture at this time. Deferred reciprocity refers to giving a person gifts or favors with the understanding that they will repay this favor at another time when the initial giver is in great need. This form of reciprocity was used extensively by travelers, particularly in the Odyssey. Odysseus often had to rely on the kindness of human strangers and other mythological creatures to secure resources along his journey.\n\nIn the classical Greek \"polis\", large-scale projects such as construction of temples, building of warships and financing of choruses were carried out as gifts to individual donors. In Rome, wealthy elite were linked with their dependents in a cycle of reciprocal gift giving. As these examples suggest, reciprocity enjoyed a cultural prestige among ancient aristocracies for whom it was advantageous.\n\nRichard Leakey and Roger Lewin attribute the very nature of humans to reciprocity. They claim humans survived because our ancestors learned to share goods and services \"in an honored network of obligation\". Thus, the idea that humans are indebted to repay gifts and favors is a unique aspect of human culture. Cultural anthropologists support this idea in what they call the \"web of indebtedness\" where reciprocity is viewed as an adaptive mechanism to enhance survival. Within this approach, reciprocity creates an interdependent environment where labor is divided so that humans may be more efficient. For example, if one member of the group cares for the children while another member hunts for food for the group, each member has provided a service and received one in return. Each member can devote more time and attention to his or her allotted task and the whole group benefits. This meant that individuals could give away resources without actually giving them away. Through the rule of reciprocity, sophisticated systems of aid and trade were possible bringing immense benefits to the societies that utilized them. Given the benefits of reciprocity at the societal level, it is not surprising that the norm has persisted and dictates our present cognition and behavior.\n\nReciprocity is not only a strong determining factor of human behavior; it is a powerful method for gaining one's compliance with a request. The rule of reciprocity has the power to trigger feelings of indebtedness even when faced with an uninvited favor and irrespective of liking the person who executed the favor. In 1971, Dennis Regan tested the strength of these two aspects of reciprocity in a study where participants believed they were in an art appreciation experiment with a partner, Joe, who was really Regan's assistant. During the experiment, Joe would disappear and bring back a soft drink for the participant. After this phase of the experiment was over, Joe would ask the participant to buy raffle tickets from him. The more the participants liked Joe, the more likely they were to buy raffle tickets from him. However, when Joe had given them a soda and thus indebted them to reciprocate, it made no difference whether the participants liked Joe or not, the rule of reciprocity overpowered liking. Thus, individuals who we might not even like have the power to greatly increase our chances of doing them a favor simply by providing us with a small gift or favor prior to their request. Furthermore, we are obliged to receive these gifts and favors which reduces our ability to choose to whom we wish to be indebted.\n\nIn 1976, Phillip Kunz demonstrated the automatic nature of reciprocity in an experiment using Christmas cards. In this experiment, Kunz sent out holiday cards with pictures of his family and a brief note to a group of complete strangers. While he expected some reaction, holiday cards came pouring back to him from people who had never met nor heard of him and who expressed no desire to get to know him any better. The majority of these individuals who responded never inquired into Kunz's identity, they were merely responding to his initial gesture with a reciprocal action.\n\nPolitics is another area where the power of reciprocity is evident. While politicians often claim autonomy from the feelings of obligation associated with gifts and favors that influence everyone else, they are also susceptible. In the 2002 election, U.S. Congress Representatives who received the most money from special interest groups were over seven times more likely to vote in favor of the group that had contributed the most money to their campaigns.\n\nFehr and Gächter (2000) showed that, when acting within reciprocal frameworks, individuals are more likely to deviate from purely self-interested behavior than when acting in other social contexts. Magnanimity is often repaid with disproportionate amounts of kindness and cooperation, and treachery with disproportionate amounts of hostility and vengeance, which can significantly surpass amounts determined or predicted by conventional economic models of rational self-interest. Moreover, reciprocal tendencies are frequently observed in situations wherein transaction costs associated with specific reciprocal actions are high and present or future material rewards are not expected. Whether self-interested or reciprocal action dominates the aggregate outcome is particularly dependent on context; in markets or market-like scenarios characterized by competitiveness and incomplete contracts, reciprocity tends to win out over self-interest.\n\nPositive reciprocity occurs when an action committed by one individual that has a positive effect on someone else is returned with an action that has an approximately equal positive effect. For example, if someone takes care of another person's dog, the person who received this favor should then return this action with another favor such as with a small gift. However, the reciprocated action should be approximately equal to the first action in terms of positive value, otherwise this can result in an uncomfortable social situation. If someone takes care of another person's dog and that person returns the favor by buying that individual a car, the reciprocated gift is inappropriate because it does not equal the initial gesture. Individuals expect actions to be reciprocated by actions that are approximately equal in value.\n\nOne example of positive reciprocity is that waitresses who smile broadly receive more tips than waitresses who present a minimal smile. Also, free samples are not merely opportunities to taste a product but rather invitations to engage in the rule of reciprocity. Many people find it difficult to accept the free sample and walk away. Instead, they buy some of the product even when they did not find it that enjoyable.\n\nNegative reciprocity occurs when an action that has a negative effect on someone is returned with an action that has an approximately equal negative effect. For example, if an individual commits a violent act against a person, it is expected that person would return with a similar act of violence. If, however, the reaction to the initial negative action is not approximately equal in negative value, this violates the norm of reciprocity and what is prescribed as allowable. Retaliatory aspects i.e. the aspects of trying to get back and cause harm, are known as negative reciprocity. This definition of negative reciprocity is distinct from the way negative reciprocity is defined in other domains. In cultural anthropology, negative reciprocity refers to an attempt to get something for nothing. It is often referred to as \"bartering\" or \"haggling\" (see reciprocity (cultural anthropology) for more information).\n\nThere are more subtle ways of initiating the reciprocity rule than merely doing something nice for someone so you may expect something in return. One form of this more subtle form of reciprocity is the idea of reciprocal concessions in which the requester lowers his/her initial request, making the respondent more likely to agree to a second request. Under the rule of reciprocity, we are obligated to concede to someone who has made a concession to us. That is, if an individual starts off by requesting something large and you refuse, you feel obligated to consent to their smaller request even though you might not be interested in either of the things they are offering. Robert Cialdini illustrates an example of this phenomenon by telling a story of a boy who asks him to buy five-dollar circus tickets and, when Cialdini refuses, asks him to buy some one dollar chocolate bars. Cialdini feels obligated to return the favor and consents to buying some of the chocolate bars.\n\nThe rule of reciprocity operates in reciprocal concessions in two ways. First, an individual is pressured to reciprocate one concession for another by nature of the rule itself. Second, because the individual who initially concedes can expect to have the other person concede in return, this person is free to make the concession in the first place. If there were no social pressure to return the concession, an individual runs the risk of giving up something and getting nothing in return. Mutual concession is a procedure that can promote compromise in a group so that individuals can refocus their efforts toward achieving a common goal. Reciprocal concessions promote compromise in a group so that the initial and incompatible desires of individuals can be set aside for the benefit of social cooperation.\n\nThe door in the face technique, otherwise known as the rejection-then-retreat technique, involves making an outrageous request that someone will almost certainly turn down, and then make the smaller request that was the favor of interest all along. If done skillfully, the second request is seen as a concession so compliance with the second request is obtained. However, one must proceed with caution when using this technique. If the first request is so big that it is seen as unreasonable, the door in the face technique proves useless as the concession made after is not perceived as genuine. The door in the face technique is not to be confused with the foot in the door technique where individuals getting a person to agree with a large request by first getting them to agree to a moderate request.\n\n"}
{"id": "35441507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35441507", "title": "René Hubert", "text": "René Hubert\n\nRené Hubert (22 July 1885 - 13 October 1954) was a French historian of philosophy and educational theorist.\n\nHubert was born in Dammartin-en-Serve. He gained his agrégé in philosophy in 1908. He became professor of Morals, Sociology and Philosophy of Science at the Faculty of Letters of the University of Lille in 1923, and in 1936 Rector of the Academy of Poitiers.\n\nHe wrote on the eighteenth-century Enlightenment - the \"Encyclopédie\", Jean-Jacques Rousseau and Baron d'Holbach - as well as on educational theory.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11840886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11840886", "title": "Robert J. McDermott", "text": "Robert J. McDermott\n\nDr. Robert J. McDermott received his B.S. in zoology from the University of Wisconsin–Madison in 1975. He subsequently earned his M.S. in 1977 and\nhis Ph.D. in 1981, both in health education/curriculum and instruction from the same school. In 1981 he joined the faculty of the Department of Health Education at Southern Illinois University, Carbondale as an assistant professor. He was promoted to associate professor in 1985. While at SIUC he studied epidemiology under David Duncan\n\nProf. McDermott came to the University of South Florida College of Public Health in 1986 as associate professor of public health and was promoted to full professor in 1992. He served as Assistant Dean for Research during the 1992-1993 academic year. He became Chair of the Department of Community and Family Health in 1993, serving until 2003, when he became Assistant Dean for Health Information and Communication, a position he holds at present.\n\nIn 1998, he led a College-wide effort that resulted in USF being awarded one of the nine Prevention Research Centers funded by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Since that time he has co-directed the Florida Prevention Research Center, which is charged with developing and evaluating a community-based prevention marketing (CBPM) model. CBPM is an example of community-based participatory research that blends social marketing theories and techniques and community organization principles to guide voluntary health behavior change.\n\nHe has served as a member of the CDC's invited working group tasked to define health education in the 21st century and has been a consultant to the CDC's Division of School Health for collaboration with the Russian Federation. He has also been a visiting professor at two German universities, the University of Cologne and the University of Freiburg. He was Chair of the School Health Education and Services Section of the American Public Health Association and Chair of the Research Council of the American School Health Association.\n\nDr. McDermott is senior editor of the \"Florida Public Health Association Journal\".\nand associate editor of \"Social Marketing Quarterly\". He is a contributing editor of the \"American Journal of Health Behavior\", \"Journal of Health Education\", and \"Eta Sigma Gamman\". In addition, Dr. McDermott is currently on the editorial boards of the \"American Journal of Health Studies\" and \"Umwelt und Gesundheit\" (Germany). In addition to more than 125 scientific articles, he has three books to his credit: \"Health Education Evaluation and Measurement: A Practitioner's Perspective\", \"Connections for Health\", and \"Health Information for Teachers: A College Course\".\n\nHe was the recipient of the Mabel Lee Outstanding Young Professional Award for early career achievements awarded by the American Alliance for Health, Physical Education, Recreation and Dance. He has received both the Recognition Award and the Leadership Award from the School Health Education and Services Section of the American Public Health Association. He is recipient of the Award for Research of the American School Health Association's Research Council and the American Association for Health Education named him its Scholar for 1999. Dr. McDermott received the William A. Howe Award from the American School Health Association for his career achievements, the highest award bestowed by that organization. He was a founding Fellow of the American Academy of Health Behavior and has served as its President.\n\n"}
{"id": "34289393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34289393", "title": "Robert Tavernor", "text": "Robert Tavernor\n\nRobert Tavernor (born 1954) is an English Emeritus Professor of Architecture and Urban Design at the London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE), and founding director of the Tavernor Consultancy in London. He is an architecture historian and urbanist, who has published widely on architecture and urban design, including the impact of tall buildings on historic cities. He has a long academic career, having been appointed to the Forbes Chair in Architecture at the University of Edinburgh at age 36.\n\nTavernor was born in England and studied architecture in London (BA and Dip. Arch with Distinction, 1973–79), Rome (British Prix de Rome in Architecture at the British School at Rome, 1979–80), and at the University of Cambridge (St John's College, 1980–83, doctorate awarded 1985), where his PhD thesis, \"Concinnitas in the Architectural Theory and Practice of Leon Battista Alberti\", was supervised by Joseph Rykwert. He is a registered architect and a member of the Royal Institute of British Architects (since 1985).\n\nHe has held multiple academic posts in the UK. He was formerly Forbes Professor of Architecture at the University of Edinburgh (1992–95), Professor of Architecture and Head of the Department of Architecture and Civil Engineering at the University of Bath (1995–2005), LSE Professor of Architecture and Urban Design (2005–2011) and Director of the LSE Cities Programme (2005–08). He held various visiting academic posts internationally, including Visiting Professor at the University of California at Los Angeles (UCLA, 1998), European Union Visiting Scholar in planning and conservation at the University of Texas A&M (2002); and Visiting Professor in Architecture and Urbanism at the University of São Paulo, Brazil (2004), and the University of Bath (since 2009).\n\nHe founded the Centre for Advanced Studies in Architecture (CASA) at Bath, and with Vaughan Hart, established a focus on Classical and Italian Renaissance architectural treatises; between them they have translated and written about the leading classical architectural theorists – including, Vitruvius, Alberti, Serlio and Palladio. He has been a national assessor for the Architecture and the Built Environment sub-panel of the 2008 Research Assessment Exercise (RAE2008) for the UK Higher Education Funding Council for Education (HEFCE), and a member of the Faculty of the Fine Arts of the British School at Rome.\n\nTavernor initiated (with co-authors) a series of modern translations of the principal classical architectural treatise writers – Vitruvius, Alberti and Palladio – and is the sole author of parallel monographs on these subjects published by (Yale and MIT). His book on Alberti was described as \"the last and the best of the books on Alberti on this scale in the twentieth century\" (Chronique). He pioneered the use of the computer to visualise urban forms in architectural exhibitions, co-curating with Rykwert in 1994 the international exhibition of Alberti's work at Palazzo Te in Mantua for the computer firm Olivetti. As a consultant architect and urbanist he applies his knowledge of architectural history, design and the visual representation of buildings in advising planners and architects on the form, character, scale and massing of tall buildings in the City of London and along the south bank of the Thames. His advice on several large urban masterplan projects in London (including Battersea Power Station) led to him being invited in 2007, by former Russian Senator Gordeev, to assemble and to contribute his expertise to an international masterplanning team to re-configure the city of Perm (population of 1 million) in the southern Urals. The published masterplan led by KCAP was awarded the Grand Prix at the Moscow Architecture Biennale in May 2010.\n\nAs an architectural historian and theorist, he is an expert in the foundations of Italian Renaissance architecture and the transmission of associated ideas and forms to England and America. He is the author of \"Palladio and Palladianism\" (1991 – subsequently translated into Italian, Chinese and Korean) and \"On Alberti and the Art of Building\" (1998). He is co-translator of two English translations of architectural treatises: Leon Battista Alberti’s 16th century \"De re aedificatoria\", as \"On the Art of Building in Ten Books\" (1988); and Andrea Palladio’s 17th century \"I quattro libri dell’architettura\", as \"The Four Books on Architecture\" (1997), and co-edited and provided the introduction to Vitruvius' \"On Architecture\" (2009).\n\nTavernor's translation works have become the standard texts in art historical scholarship, used by students and scholars throughout the world. His book \"Smoot’s Ear: The Measure of Humanity\" (2007 and 2008) pulls together much of his earlier writings and sets measures and measuring in a cultural context and shows how deeply they are connected to human experience and history.\n\nHe was co-editor of \"Body and Building: Essays on the changing relation of Body to Architecture\" (2002 and 2005), a collection of essays on art and architecture dedicated to Rykwert. He founded the Alberti Group with Rykwert, which led to the 1994 international exhibition on Alberti for Olivetti. Photogrammetric drawings relating to research for the exhibition can be found on the CASA website at Bath University. Tavernor was subsequently commissioned by the Royal Academy of Arts to produce computer animated urban and architectural reconstructions through CASA for exhibitions in London and internationally, for the Sir John Soane Exhibition (1999), Aztecs Exhibition (2003), and by Tate Britain for the Sir Stanley Spencer Exhibition (2001).\n\nRobert Tavernor is currently an architectural and urban design consultant in London.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21486748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21486748", "title": "Robin Hemley", "text": "Robin Hemley\n\nRobin Hemley, born in New York City, is an American nonfiction and fiction writer. He is the author of twelve books, and has had work published in \"The New York Times\", \"New York Magazine\", \"Creative Nonfiction\", \"Brevity\", \"Conjunctions\", \"The Sun\", and \"Narrative\", among others. Since 2004, he has served as the Director of the Nonfiction Writing Program at the University of Iowa.\n\nRobin Hemley was born to a Jewish family. His parents were both translators and editors of the work of Nobel Laureate Isaac Bashevis Singer. His father, Cecil Hemley, was co-founder, with Arthur A. Cohen, of \"The Noonday Press\", and his mother, Elaine Gottlieb Hemley, published fiction and poetry.\n\nHe graduated from Indiana University in Comparative Literature and from the University of Iowa with an MFA in Fiction.\n\nHe has received a Guggenheim Fellowship as well as fellowships from the Illinois Arts Council, the North Carolina Arts Council, the Ohioana Library Association, and the Washington State Arts Council.\n\nHe has had artist residencies at the MacDowell Colony, the Fine Arts Work Center in Provincetown, Ragdale, The Hermitage, The Bogliasco Foundation, and the Edward Albee Foundation.\n\nHis awards include two Pushcart Prizes for Fiction: first place in the Nelson Algren Award for Fiction from \"The Chicago Tribune\", and the Independent Press Book Award for Nonfiction.\n\nIn 2004, he began teaching at the University of Iowa where he was hired as the Director of the Nonfiction Writing Program, and since 2000 he has taught at Vermont College of Fine Arts, where he served as Faculty Chair for three years. He has also taught at the University of Utah, Western Washington University, St. Lawrence University, and the University of North Carolina at Charlotte.\n\nAt Western Washington University, he edited \"The Bellingham Review\" for five years and founded the Tobias Wolff Award for Fiction and the Annie Dillard Award for Nonfiction. At the University of Iowa, he founded the NonfictioNOW Conference in 2005.\n\nIn 2013, he was hired as the Director of the Writing Program, Writer-in-Residence, and Professor of Humanities at Yale-NUS College in Singapore.\n\nHe currently lives in Singapore, is married, and has four daughters.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23086620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23086620", "title": "Scholar Rescue Fund", "text": "Scholar Rescue Fund\n\nThe Institute of International Education Scholar Rescue Fund (IIE-SRF) provides fellowships for established scholars whose lives and work are threatened in their home countries. These fellowships permit professors, researchers and other senior academics to find temporary refuge at host universities and colleges anywhere in the world, enabling them to pursue their academic work and to continue to share their knowledge with students, colleagues, and the community at large. During the fellowship, conditions in a scholar's home country may improve, permitting safe return to help rebuild universities and societies ravaged by fear, conflict and repression. If safe return is not possible, the scholar may use the fellowship period to identify a longer-term opportunity. N.B. This is a program of the Institute of International Education.\n\nIn 2007, as a response to an urgent appeal from Iraq's Ministry of Higher Education, IIE-SRF launched the Iraq Scholar Rescue Project. The Project's goal is to rescue Iraq's most senior academics – in any academic discipline – by placing them at institutions of higher learning in countries within the Middle East and North Africa region.\n\nThe Institute of International Education has helped rescue threatened scholars since its inception in 1919, demonstrating a commitment to protecting academic freedom. In the 1930s, IIE was instrumental in founding the Emergency Committee in Aid of Displaced Foreign Scholars, led by Edward R. Murrow. The program assisted scholars who were barred from teaching, persecuted and threatened with imprisonment by the Nazis. Over 300 scholars were rescued, some of whom became Nobel Laureates and many whose work and ideas helped shape the post-war world.\n\nOther major activities undertaken throughout the Institute's history, before the formal establishment of IIE-SRF in 2002, include: The Russian Student Fund (1921-1949), Rescue of Scholars from Fascist Italy (1922-1924), Rescue of Scholars from the Spanish Civil War (1936-1939), Committee on Awards for Chinese Students (1942-1945), Emergency Program to Aid Hungarian University Students (in cooperation with World University Service) (1956-1958), The South African Education Program (1979-2001), Rescue of Burmese Refugees (1990-1992), Asia-Help (1998-2000), and Balkan-Help (1999-2000).\n\nIIE-SRF was founded in 2002, when IIE's trustees committed to making scholar rescue a permanent part of its work. Dr. Henry Jarecki, Dr. Henry Kaufman, Thomas Russo and George Soros, founded the Scholar Rescue Fund to aid threatened scholars find safe haven and continue their academic work. Since then, IIE-SRF has provided over 1,190 awards with the collaboration of over 375 institutions from over 40 different countries.\n\nIn 2006, when security concerns in Iraq reached unprecedented levels, the IIE Scholar Rescue Fund began receiving hundreds of requests for assistance from threatened Iraqi scholars at major higher education institutions across the country and it became clear that the scope and scale of the Iraqi crisis required special attention. With generous funding from the private and public sectors, most notably, the U.S. Department of State’s Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the Richard Lounsbery Foundation, the IIE Scholar Rescue Fund responded by launching the Iraq Project. From 2007 to 2014, the Iraq Project provided support to Iraqi university professors and scientists to resume their teaching and research in safety. The Project’s goal was to rescue more than 200 of Iraq's most senior academics – in any academic discipline – by placing them temporarily at institutions of higher learning in countries within the Middle East and North Africa region. (Some exceptions were made for university positions in other world regions.) By the Project’s completion in September 2014, over 280 Iraqi scholars had received fellowships to help them resume their teaching and research activities in safety.\n\nThe Iraq Project continues today through the Iraq Distance Learning Initiative, which \"[fills] curricular gaps within Iraqi university courses with lectures in subjects ranging from nanotechnology to renewable energy mitigate the potential for brain drain.\" This include the Iraq Scholar Lecture Series and the IIE-SRF University Joint Courses Project.\n\nTo rescue scholars and, by protecting their lives and work, increase their countries' and the world's level of knowledge. The IIE Scholar Rescue Fund formalizes an unwavering commitment to academic freedom that the Institute of International Education has demonstrated for over 90 years. At the heart of IIE-SRF is the idea that each scholar helped who continues his or her work in safety is a beacon of hope in our world.\n\nIIE-SRF grantees are professors, established researchers and other senior academics from any country, field or discipline. Candidates are reviewed for academic qualifications, the quality/potential of the candidate's work, and the urgency of threats faced. As stated by Scholar Rescue Fund, preference is given to scholars: \n\n\"- Who are facing immediate, severe and targeted threats to their lives and/or careers in their home country or country of residence;\n\nIIE-SRF also states that: \n\"- Applications from female scholars and scholars who are members of ethnic, racial, cultural or religious minority groups, or those otherwise underrepresented in their field, are encouraged.\n- Fellowships are approved by the IIE-SRF Selection Committee which convenes at least three (3) times per year.\n- The final fellowship award is dependent upon the location of the host institution, the cost of living, and the value of any additional contributions from the host institution or other source.\n- Host academic institutions agree to accept the fellowship funds and disburse the funds to the scholar. In most cases, host institutions are required to match the IIE-SRF fellowship award through partial salary/stipend support, \nScholar Rescue in the Modern World is the Scholar Rescue Fund's world report, funded by the Carnegie Corporation of New York, to share with a larger community the breadth and nature of the persecution of scholars around the globe. It is based on the data from the first five years of activity of the Scholar Rescue Fund (IIE-SRF), from its founding in April 2002 until May 2007. During this time, IIE-SRF received more than 1,000 inquiries from persecuted academics around the world. The report is based primarily on data collected from that time period from 847 applicants, 140 of whom were awarded grants.\n\nAccording to \"Scholar Rescue in the Modern World,\" life- and career-ending threats to scholars are widespread and egregious. Individuals in 101 countries, from a wide range of academic disciplines and fields, requested assistance; IIE-SRF provided direct support to scholars from 38 of these countries. While countries of origin spanned almost all regions of the world, seventy-five percent of IIE-SRF grantees came from two regions: the Middle East/North Africa and Sub-Saharan Africa.\n\nThe report also identified five factors that cause scholar oppression: Low Gross Domestic Product (GDP); high level of conflict; low academic population; low academic population per million of country population; and Failed state status. The report also states that governments outnumber non-state actors, such as militias and rebel groups, in oppressing scholars by a factor of 3:1.\nThe report also recommends several new programs or activities to mitigate scholar oppression worldwide. Recommendations include: a United Nations convention against the persecution of academics; special visas to enable persecuted scholars to cross borders to safety; and an index of academic oppression that might predict violence against scholars and in particular when and where the next big academic emergency might occur, much like Iraq.\n\nThe IIE-SRF Fellowships have no geographic limits on awards, on the disciplines, or fields supported. Fellowships may be awarded to scholars from any country and/or institutions. As of 2017, IIE-SRF has hosted more than 750 scholars from the Middle East and North Africa (70.6%), Sub-Saharan Africa (11.1%), Europe and Eurasia (9.0%), Central, East, and South Asia (7.7%), and Latin American and the Caribbean (1.3%). Below is a list of the nations from which scholars have been granted IIE-SRF fellowships:\nThe support and partnership of the international academic community is critical to the work of IIE-SRF. IIE-SRF works closely with each host partner institution to arrange a fellowship term and visiting position that works best for the scholar and the institution. As a visiting scholar, the IIE-SRF fellow might contribute to ongoing research or begin original research; complete pending publications; teach or co-teach; guest lecture in one or across departments; and/or serve as an on-campus resource to both students and faculty within any range of fields or subject matters. Beyond their academic fields, fellows may also be interested to share their personal experiences and knowledge related to their home countries and regions.\nIIE-SRF collaborates with the host partner institution to arrange fellowship appointments, typically for one year. Fellows are eligible to apply for a renewal award. If conditions in their home countries improve, fellows may return after their fellowships to make meaningful contributions to their national academies and civil society. If safe return is not possible, they may use the fellowship period to identify longer-term opportunities.\nBelow is a list of some of the nations that have participated as host institutions and have provided scholars a safe environment to continue their academic work: \n"}
{"id": "36345920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36345920", "title": "Social objects", "text": "Social objects\n\nSocial objects are objects that gain meaning through processes of reification (e.g. ritual). Studies of this phenomenon have its origins in classical cognitive sociology, the historical traditions of the sociology of knowledge and phenomenology. A prominent work in this regard is The Rules of the Sociological Method, in which Emile Durkheim suggested the dictum, \"The first and most basic rule is \"to consider social facts as things.\"\" This has led researchers to investigate the social and cultural contingencies of how \"objects\" cognitively \"become objects.\"\n\nActor-network theory has developed this concept as the object around which social networks form. This version was applied to social media netwotks by Jyri Engeström in 2005 as part of the explanation of why some social media networks succeed and some fail. Engeström maintained that \"Social network theory fails to recognise such real-world dynamics because its notion of sociality is limited to just people.\" Instead, he proposed what he called \"object centered sociality,\" citing the work of the sociologist Karin Knorr-Cetina. For example, Engeström maintained that much of the success of the popular photo-sharing site Flickr was because photographs serve as social objects around which conversations of social networks form.\n\nThe concept was popularized by Hugh MacLeod, cartoonist and social observer in 2007.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58358809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58358809", "title": "Sonia Machanick", "text": "Sonia Machanick\n\nSonia Machanick (15 June 1925 – 12 November 1977) was a South African medical doctor, author and educational psychologist who pioneered new methods of teaching children with dyslexia and other learning difficulties. She founded Japari School, a special school in Johannesburg that provides education for children who struggle to thrive in the mainstream education system. She wrote a series of four graded reading books (\"Sounds Travel Too)\" and other reading tutors in English and Afrikaans (Tom Kan Lees) that were widely used throughout the 1960s and 1970s for teaching the phonics reading method, as well as articles concerning the treatment of children with learning difficulties.\n\nMachanick was the second of three children born in Cape Town to immigrant parents; her mother from the United Kingdom and her father from Lithuania. Her mother, Edna Annie Love Courtnall, was one of the first female LLB graduates (1922) at the University of London, and she later set up a National Fellowship Award through the South African Association of Women graduates. Awards every year are made to two South African women who are studying for a Dipoma or Degree in any dicipline.\n\nAfter completing school, Sonia Machanick enrolled on the medical course at Cape Town University. While a student, she initiated a vacation scheme for medical students to provide medical support at a mission hospital in the Transkei and she was a member of the team that inaugurated SHAWCO, a student-run NGO based at the University of Cape Town, that seeks to improve the quality of life for individuals in developing communities within the Cape Metropolitan area.\n\nAfter graduating in 1947, she returned to the main university campus to study psychology and she worked at the University Child Guidance Clinic. \n\nShe married Hillel Abbe Shapiro who was a lecturer at the university medical school.\n\nSoon after, they relocated to Johannesburg where she was initially employed at the Alexandra Township TB clinic and then as a registrar at Tara Hospital. \n\nThese experiences informed her decision to forge a career in the area of remedial education, with the specific aim of developing facilities for the diagnosis and treatment of children whose emotional and educational needs were not catered for in the mainstream educational system and she started working with children who struggled with a range of learning problems, including emotional behavioural issues, dyslexia and dyspraxia. \n\nTogether with her husband and a group of other parents, Sonia Machanick was instrumental in founding South Africa's first mainstream multi-racial high school, Woodmead School.\n\nAs her practice grew, the need for larger premises led to her setting up Japari School in Johannesburg in 1966.\n\nThe school expanded further with new buildings and was able to take larger numbers of children as well as hosting conferences and work placements for special needs teachers. Although this was during the Apartheid era, Japari operated from the start on a non-racial basis, and also supported black pupils with scholarships to mainstream schools.\n\nAfter her early death aged 52 in 1977, there was a period of uncertainty, after which the school re-established itself on a new site. Dr Machanick's work in the field of educational research was recognised by the College of Medicine of South Africa, and the College established the Sonia Machanick Travelling Fellowship. The Sonia Machanick Memorial Lecture was set up after her death. From January 2002 the headteacher has been Steve Rees.\n\nAccreditation\n\nJAPARI School is a member of: \n\nIndependent Schools Association of Southern Africa (ISASA),\n\nSouth African Bursars of Independent Schools (SABISA)\n\nCorporate Member of the Southern African Association for Learning and Educational Difficulties (SAALED)\n\nSouth African Heads of Independent Schools (SAHISA)\n\nSounds Travel Too. Book 1\n\nSounds Travel Too. Book 2\n\nSounds travel Too. Book 3\n\nSounds Travel Too. Book 4\n\nThe management of a child with a learning disability\n\nLearning disabilities in childhood - some guidelines and cautions\n\nCongresses and Meetings\n\nPeople and Events\n\nI'll Make Me a World\n\nWhere Can I Go? Cape Town\n\nWaarheen kan ek gaan? Kaapstad\n\nTom Lees. Boek 1\n\nTom Kan Lees. Boek 2\n\nJohannes Arnoldus van Beukering; Maurice David Gelfand; Sonia Machanick\n"}
{"id": "27694930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27694930", "title": "Srđan Ognjanović", "text": "Srđan Ognjanović\n\nSrđan Ognjanović (, English alternatives: Srdjan Ognjanovic, and Srdan Ognjanovic) is a Serbian mathematician and the principal of Mathematical High School Belgrade since 2008.\n\nHe received his degrees in the field of Mathematical Sciences from the Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences, University of Belgrade. Prior to that, Ognjanović was a student of Mathematical Gymnasium Belgrade, from which he graduated in 1972, in A-division.\nOgnjanović started his professional career as a teacher of mathematics at Mathematical Gymnasium Belgrade (Serbian: \"Matematička Gimnazija\") while still a student of mathematics at Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences, University of Belgrade, continued his career after graduation also in Mathematical Gymnasium Belgrade, and devoted his career to teaching mathematics in the same school, now being a professor in Mathematical Gymnasium Belgrade for more than 30 years.\n\nStudents of professor Ognjanović won numerous prizes at International Science Olympiads in Mathematics, Physics, Informatics, Astronomy, Astrophysics, and Earth Sciences, also at other prestigious competitions around the world, and, accordingly, won many full scholarships at top-ranked universities.\n\nMr Ognjanović is the author of numerous books and collections of problems for elementary and secondary schools, as well as special collections of assignments for preparation for mathematics competitions and mathematics workbooks used as a preparation for admission to faculties.\n\nOgnjanović was listed among \"300 most powerful people in Serbia\" in a list published annually by \"Blic\" daily newspaper (14 February 2011), member of Axel Springer AG. The criteria were easiness in achieving goals, public awareness, financial and political influence, personal integrity and authority, respectiveness of the institution the person represents, and personal charisma.\n\nAmong latest awards for his published works Mr Ognjanović received (in 2010): Grand Prize at 16th International Book Fair, in Novi Sad, from a Business Chamber of Vojvodina, and \"Stojan Novaković\" Prize for the best textbook and set of textbooks published by Zavod - Serbian State Company of Textbooks.\n\n"}
{"id": "5484155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5484155", "title": "TestDaF", "text": "TestDaF\n\nThe TestDaF, formally Test Deutsch als Fremdsprache (\"Test of German as a foreign language\"), is a standardised language test of German proficiency for non-native German speakers. It aims at people who would like to study at, or academics and scientists who want to work in, German universities. The test is run by the TestDaF-Institut.\n\nThe test can be taken in 95 different countries around the world. The test covers listening comprehension, reading comprehension, writing and speaking, and is recognised by German universities as proof of prospective students' ability.\n\nThe grades of candidates are marked in terms of three levels, TDN 3 — 5, which correspond to the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages levels B2–C1.\n\nThe certificate is valid for an unlimited period of time.\n\nA standardised language examination for foreign students enrolling in German universities was first proposed in 1996 during the Conference of the Cultural Minister (\"Kultusministerkonferenz\").\n\nIn early 1998, the financial support from Foreign Office (Auswärtigen Amt) and the Federal Ministry of Education and Research (Bundesministerium für Bildung und Forschung) became available and German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD) was commissioned to hold a bidding for the project to develop a central language examination. In the same year, the contract was awarded to a consortium composed of the University of Hagen, the Department of Linguistic Research of Ruhr-University Bochum, Goethe-Institut and the Carl Duisberg Centre in Cologne.\n\nThe project began on 1 August 1998. Before 31 July 2000 three modal tests had been drafted and were tested worldwide. The performance description, marking criteria and evaluation procedures were worked out and an item bank for prototype, a database of participants and a test database were all set up.\n\nOn 26 April 2001, the TestDaF was taken for the first time.\n\nThe tasks of the TestDaF have been developed by the TestDaF-Institut, which is an institution run by the Society for Academic Study Preparation and Test Development (\"Gesellschaft für Akademische Studienvorbereitung und Testentwicklung e.V.\"). It is also supported by, among others, the German Rectors’ Conference (\"Hochschulrektorenkonferenz\"), German Academic Exchange Service and the Goethe-Institut.\n\nThe primary target group of the TestDaf examination is the student applicants who have obtained their qualification in foreign countries but want to continue their study in Germany. In accordance to the Law of Higher Education (\"Landeshochschulgesetz\"), they need a proof of their proficiency in German in order to fulfil the language requirement, and thus TestDaF would be a useful.\n\nThere are also other target groups who would be interested to take the exam:\n\n\nAs TestDaf does not offer examinations in different levels, the question paper for all candidates are the same. Therefore, TestDaF is only suitable for advanced learners but not beginners.\n\nAll the topics and tasks in the test are set within the general context of higher education. They are intended for candidates of all disciplines and academic backgrounds.\n\nThe examination consists of 4 parts:\n\nThe examination as a whole lasts for 3 hours 10 minutes, not including the breaks. The first three parts of the exam are tested in a classroom context, while the oral examination is done by speaking to a computer.\n\nThe result of TestDaf is not marked as simply \"pass\" or \"fail\". Since the question papers are the same for candidates, and the test needs to separate the examinees into different levels, the results of the examinees are given in three different levels:\n\n\nIf the candidate does not reach the lowest level, \"unter TDN 3\" (lower than TDN 3) is printed on the certificate.\n\nThe test consists of four parts. Each part is separately graded and the sub-grades are also shown on the certificate. Some universities demand their applicants to get a certain grade in all parts of the exam (the grade is depended on the applied programme and subject), but some count the marks just in total. When a candidate fails to reach the required grade, he can re-take the exam.\n\nThe exam is marked centrally by well-trained markers.\n\nThe three TestDaF levels are designed in accordance with the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR) as well as the performance descriptions set by the Association of Language Testers in Europe (ALTE). TDN 3 and the lower half of TDN 4 correspond to the B2 level in CEFR, and the upper half of TDN 4 and TDN 5 correspond to the C1 level.\n\nWithin six weeks the candidates receive a certificate issued by the Test Centre. The certificate shows the grades of all parts of the examination and the detailed description of the reached level can be read at the back side of the certificate. If the candidate has not reached the lowest level, i.e. TDN 3, then \"unter TDN 3\" (lower than TDN 3) would be shown on the certificate. The certificate is valid for an unlimited period of time.\n\nIn general students must get TDN 4 in all parts of the examinations in order to be admitted into universities in Germany. But since every university in Germany has its own admissions policy, it is at the discretion of individual universities to admit applicants whose scores are below TDN 4 to their courses of study, depending on factors such as the course subject, type of degree awarded and course duration.\n\nIf the candidate gets a score of TDN 5, it shows that they have a very good knowledge of German, above that required at the beginning of their studies.\n\nThere are approximately 450 test centres in 95 countries worldwide, offering the TestDaf exams six times a year. the officially approved test centres, which are managed by TestDaF-Institut, are usually located at German and foreign universities and other higher education institutes, DAAD editorial offices, Goethe-Institut, as well as the Adult high schools (\"Volkshochschule\") and language schools in Germany. The test centres are responsible for:\n\n\nThere are lots of preparation courses for TestDaF in Germany as well as foreign countries. These courses are offered by official test centres as well as other language schools. Relevant information can be obtained at the official website of TestDaf.\n\nAt the website of TestDaF, tips for the examination are available and sample papers can also be downloaded.\n\nSometimes, new tests of TestDaF need to be tested, and if possible, there are chances that one can register to do the new test under test in order to be familiar with the test format.\n\nBefore registering for the exam, it is also possible to do a placement test at the website of TestDaF, so as to check the level of one's language and decide if it is suitable to register for the examination at that time.\n\nThe TestDaF-Institut, however, does not release the test to the public, making it very hard to study alone, and most of the time, acquire a preparation course which could get expensive, considering the already high price of the test.\n\nTestDaF-Institut claims that there are many advantages for the candidate to decide to sit for the TestDaF:\n\n\nHowever, there is also disadvantage of taking the TestDaF, especially when compared with the Deutsche Sprachprüfung für den Hochschulzugang (DSH), where one could also fulfil the language requirement for entering German universities by getting a pass.\n\n\nThe fee of the examination varies according to the level of development of the country.\n\nThe number of TestDaF candidates has increased from 7,498 candidates in 2003 took to 24,261 in 2012. In 2003 there were only 211 test centres but this number had increased to 440 by 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33902461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33902461", "title": "The Leadership Council", "text": "The Leadership Council\n\nThe Leadership Council is a thought leadership, research and leadership advisory body based in the UK. Founded in 2008, the council is chaired by Lord Janvrin and publishes research on leadership issues annually.\n\nAs of November 2011, the Leadership Council consists of the following 16 members:\n\n\nThe Leadership Council's research is widely cited, and is normally based on interviews with a cross-section of global leaders. The most recent publication, 'Hoping to Rise or Fearing to Fall', included interviews with Lord Browne, Lord Coe, Sir Geoff Hurst, Lord Mandelson, and Sir Stuart Rose.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn December 2011, members of the Leadership Council were interviewed for the Economist Intelligence Unit's (EIU) Monthly Global Forecast programme. Simon Davies and Lady Judge commented on the future of global law firms and nuclear energy, respectively.\n"}
{"id": "3977145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3977145", "title": "University of Isfahan", "text": "University of Isfahan\n\nUniversity of Isfahan (UI) (Persian: دانشگاه اصفهان Dāneshgāh-e Esfāhān) is a state-operated university in Isfahan and among the top 10 comprehensive universities of Iran. The university is located in Azadi square of Isfahan. It has another campus in Khansar.\n\nUniversity of Isfahan offers undergraduate degrees in 70 fields and graduate degrees in 55 areas. Students can study a wide variety of courses at Bachelor, Master and Doctoral levels full-time and part-time. The University has twelve faculties and forty-five departments. University of Isfahan includes more than five hundred full-time academic members. The student body consists of 12,000 undergraduate students and 4,500 graduate students from thirty provinces. Undergraduate admission to University of Isfahan is limited to the top 10% of students who pass the national entrance examination administered yearly by the Ministry of Sciences and Higher Education. University of Isfahan has several research centers.\n\nBuilt it 1946, University of Isfahan has been one of the major universities in the fields of sciences, humanities, and engineering. The decision to establish the university was an idea developed by a number of doctors at Amin Hospital in 1939. Eventually, the board of directors of the hospital approved a plan to establish Isfahan Higher Medical Institute in 1946. In September of the same year, an ad signed by lecturer Dr. Jelveh, then caretaker of Isfahan Province Health and Medical Treatment Department, was published in local newspapers calling on prospective students to enroll in the new institute. The first classes were held at Sadi High School (now Soureh Institute). Many more students enrolled in subsequent years; therefore, the institute had to find a larger campus to accommodate the growing number of new students. On October 29, 1950, the first series of classes were held at the University of Isfahan. Other colleges such as the Medical University, the newly established College of Medicine and Literature College on Shahzadeh Ebrahim street also joined the University of Isfahan and were relocated in the main campus in subsequent years. The university later offered programs in human sciences, engineering and medical sciences. Related programs of medical sciences were then separated from the University of Isfahan and became an independent university in 1985, named medical university of Isfahan.\n\nAs of 2013 the university has twelve faculties which are:\n\"The Faculty of Science\"' of the University of Isfahan was founded in 1984. There are five departments in this faculty namely the Department of Statistics, the Department of Mathematics, the Department of Physics, the Department of Biology and the Department of Geology which have been admitting students, domestic and international, in different \nprograms of Ph.D., MSc and BSc Currently, this faculty, benefiting from experienced teachers and modern research \nand laboratory facilities, is regarded as one of the country’s top centers of Basic Sciences.\n\n\"The Faculty of Education and Psychology\"' was established in 1969 which makes it one of the oldest faculties of the University. This faculty, which consists of five departments, is admitting students to B.A, M.A and PhD programs. The Department of Education is the oldest department of the faculty and the other departments of the faculty are the Department of Psychology, the Department of Knowledge and Information Science, the Department of Counseling, and the Department of Children with Special Needs . At present, all of these departments are located in one building placed in the north-eastern part of the University campus. The faculty has continually been contributing to the development of general education and social services in Isfahan province. In addition to running programs at B.A, M.A and PhD levels, the faculty is involved in holding short-term and medium-term courses for the staff of the Department of Education in Isfahan province. Considerable attention is also paid to conducting research the reflection of which can be observed in research projects carried out by the faculty members. \nThe Department of Knowledge and Information Science was established in 1975 and its activities included holding educational classes for other departments of the University and improving technical features of the University libraries. It was in 1980s when thanks to the emergence of new cultural issues in the Iranian society, an Associate program in Library Science was launched and continued for a number of years in this department. And finally in 1996 the B.A program in Library and Information Science was launched in this department. Afterwards, the educational quality of the programs underwent some changes and books and articles began to be produced by the faculty members. The Master’s program in Library and Information Science was launched in 2006. The running programs of the Department of Knowledge and Information Science include Information Management and Academic Library Management. Following the promotions of the faculty members of the department in the past ten years and the regular collaborations of the Vice Chancellor for Education and also the Director of the Planning Committee for Knowledge and Information Science in the Ministry of Science, Research and Technology, the department was granted permission to launch a PhD program in Information Storage and Retrieval. The Department of Knowledge and Information Science in the University of Isfahan was honored to receive a plaque of appreciation for its commitment to the improvement of Library Science. Moreover, a large number of the graduates of the department are now working in educational and administrative posts in major universities and libraries of the country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21595634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21595634", "title": "University of the People", "text": "University of the People\n\nUniversity of the People (UoPeople) is an American non-profit distance learning institution of higher education that offers undergraduate and graduate degrees. It was founded by entrepreneur Shai Reshef in 2009.\n\nUniversity of the People was launched by educational entrepreneur Shai Reshef in January 2009. Although the university has no campus due to its online distance learning nature, it uses a shared office in California as an office of admission.\n\nThe first intake of UoPeople students began studying in September 2009, studying for associate and bachelor's degrees in business administration and computer science. At that time, the school had no accreditation and did not charge any fees or tuition.\n\nIn September 2009, Yale Law School's Information Society Project (ISP) entered into a research partnership with University of the People, for the study of education over digital networks and social software platforms. In 2011, the university formed a partnership with the New York University at Abu Dhabi. In February 2012, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation awarded the University of the People a grant of $613,282 for the purposes of helping the university earn national accreditation.\n\nIn 2013, the International Student Identity Card (ISIC) Association and MasterCard Worldwide announced that the University of the People was the winner of the 2013 ISIC Award. In August 2013, Microsoft launched its 4Afrika Scholarship program in collaboration with its 4Afrika Initiative and University of the People was the first participating higher-education institution.\n\nIn 2014 University of the People gained accreditation for degree granting programs through the Distance Education Accrediting Commission (DEAC), which is recognized by the United States Department of Education and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA), and is approved by the California Bureau for Private Postsecondary Education (BPPE).\n\nIn March 2016, the university began offering an online MBA, with the course itself beginning in September 2016. The MBA is not accredited by any business school accreditation bodies (e.g. AACSB, AMBA, EQUIS). In April 2016, the university signed an articulation agreement with the University of California, Berkeley regarding top associate degree graduates. \n\nIn 2017 the University of Edinburgh partnered with the school so that graduates of the University of the People could complete a bachelor’s or postgraduate degree at the University. \n\nIn September 2017, the South African government, Council of Higher Education (CHE) and Department of Higher Education and Training (DHET), warned the public of a fraudulent university, University of the People. The university started its next semester with the President of the University of the People visiting Johannesburg , instead the government thought the university has setup to operate within South Africa, which they have not applied for the necessary accreditation. Few days later the South African government withdrew its comments due to the misunderstanding.\n\nIn 2017 Olympian Simone Biles became a student and a spokeswoman for the school, and in 2018 she set up a scholarship fund to help financially struggling students. According to the International Baccalaureate the organization partnered with the University of the People to offer a Master's of Education in Advanced Teaching which is expected to begin on the 31st of January 2019. \n\nUniversity of the People is a nationally accredited online university in the United States. As with all similar universities, this accreditation may affect student qualification for state licensure, and whether courses and credits will be recognized by regionally accredited institutions for transfer.\n\nUniversity of the People claims to be tuition-free, but students must pay some administrative costs. These include processing fees for applications and final exam assessments; however, students who cannot afford the administrative costs may be eligible for scholarships. Furthermore, according to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees the University of the People offers scholarships for refugees.\n\n"}
