{"id": "46254491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46254491", "title": "Administrative Monetary Penalty", "text": "Administrative Monetary Penalty\n\nAn Administrative Monetary Penalty is a civil penalty imposed by a regulator for a contravention of an Act, regulation or by-law. It is issued upon discovery of an unlawful event, and is due and payable subject only to any rights of review that may be available under the AMP's implementing scheme. It is regulatory in nature, rather than criminal, and is intended to secure compliance with a regulatory scheme, and it can be employed with the use of other administrative sanctions, such as demerit points and license suspensions.\n\nAMPs differ from ordinary fines, such as those for parking tickets, in that, under the relevant legislation:\n\n\nLegislation enabling general schemes of fixed and variable monetary penaltiesin addition to other sanctionshas been introduced through Part 3 of the \"Regulatory Enforcement and Sanctions Act 2008\".\n\nUnder the \"Road Traffic Act 1991\"and subsequently expanded under part 6 of the \"Traffic Management Act 2004\"AMPs known as \"penalty charge notices\" have replaced fixed penalty notices where local authorities have adopted schemes of decriminalised parking enforcement. In some areas such as London, the challenge process for PCNs can be completed online, via the Internet.\n\nIn \"Guindon v Canada\", the Supreme Court of Canada ruled that AMPs are generally considered to be administrative in nature and thus not subject to the legal protections provided under s.11 of the \"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\". They are held not to arise from criminal proceedings, as \"the purpose ... is to promote honesty and deter gross negligence\" and \"it is rational that the state would only wish to impose a penalty on those who engage in misconduct knowingly, recklessly, or with a particular intention.\" They also do not attract a true penal consequence, as \"high administrative monetary penalties [are] required to encourage compliance with the administrative regime. The relevant question is not the amount of the penalty in absolute terms, it is whether the amount serves regulatory rather than penal purposes.\"\n\nHowever, normal standards of judicial review continue to apply. In \"Guindon\", the Federal Court of Appeal provided more guidance in its judgment as to when an administrative penalty would be considered disproportionate. The Ontario Court of Appeal has given a reasoned evaluation for a monetary penalty that arose from a securities proceeding, and the Administrative Tribunal of Quebec has recognized that a person can bring forward the \"reasonable, prudent and diligent person\" defence that exists in civil law against the imposition of AMPs.\n\nThe Government of Canada has introduced various AMP schemes on a sector-by-sector basis, although some agencies prefer to pursue ticketing schemes for specified summary offences, notably under the \"Contraventions Act\".\n\nOntario is considering creating a new AMP system to address minor offences that are currently prosecuted under its \"Provincial Offences Act\". The Attorney General of Ontario has requested input into the new system being proposed. In response, some have suggested that, with proper planning, an online system would be more cost-efficient and promote easier access to justice for people in rural areas and for those with language barriers. However, some people fear that a new system will be cumbersome and will not allow access to justice.\n\n"}
{"id": "40172612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40172612", "title": "Assured clear distance ahead", "text": "Assured clear distance ahead\n\nThe Assured Clear Distance Ahead (ACDA) is the distance ahead of any terrestrial locomotive device such as a land vehicle, watercraft, skates, or skis, although commonly an automobile, which can be seen to be clear of hazards by the driver, within which they should be able to bring the device to a halt. It is one of the most fundamental principles governing ordinary care and the duty of care for all methods of conveyance, and is frequently used to determine if a driver is in proper control and is a nearly universally implicit consideration in vehicular accident liability. The rule is a precautionary trivial burden required to avert the great probable gravity of precious life loss and momentous damage—the former of which has a priceless intrinsic value and a pricey to invaluable instrumental value. Satisfying the ACDA rule is necessary but not sufficient to comply with the more generalized basic speed law, and accordingly, it may be used as both a layman's criterion and judicial test for courts to use in determining if a particular speed is negligent, but not to prove it is safe. As a spatial standard of care, it also serves as required explicit and fair notice of prohibited conduct so unsafe speed laws are not void for vagueness.\n\nThis distance is typically both determined and constrained by the proximate edge of clear visibility, but it may be attenuated to a margin of which beyond hazards may reasonably be expected to spontaneously appear. The rule is the specific spatial case of the common law , and an application of \"volenti non fit injuria\". The two-second rule may be the limiting factor governing the ACDA, when the speed of forward traffic is what limits the basic safe speed, and a primary hazard of collision could result from following any closer.\n\nAs the original common law driving rule preceding statutized traffic law, it is an ever important foundational rule in today's complex driving environment. Because there are now protected classes of roadway users–such as a school bus, mail carrier, emergency vehicle, horse-drawn vehicle, agricultural machinery, street sweeper, cyclist, and pedestrian–as well as natural hazards which may occupy or obstruct the roadway beyond the edge of visibility, negligence may not depend \"ex post facto\" on what a driver happened to hit, could not have known, but had a concurrent duty to avoid. Furthermore, modern knowledge of human factors has revealed physiological limitations–such as the subtended angular velocity detection threshold (SAVT)–which may make it difficult, and in some circumstance impossible, for other drivers to always comply with right-of-way statutes by staying clear of roadway.\n\nAs with the genesis of most legal doctrine governing problems which precede a legislative solution, the ACDA principle generally originates to decisional precedent by high courts which reasoned general common sense rules of conduct of which naturally follow from the repetitive process of determining specific culpability. Legislation often subsequently followed which either superfluously codified and endorsed or revised these principles, of which courts would in turn continue to flesh out the details. By the late 1920s, the term \"assured clear distance ahead\" came into widespread use as the identity of a standard of care element in choosing safe speed, with differing jurisdictions adopting the language to carry its same effects. Much of the earliest published record naturally pertains to high stakes wrecks among vessels or vehicles as defined in those times, though the obvious principle applies to chariots and might in fact be time immemorial.\n\nHorses may still be expected to use the roadways, as well bicycles and automobiles. The former are a regular appearance in both urban areas and in the country, and are commonly exercised by commuters and Amish. Many roads are unchanged since the 1800s while controlled-access highways have been invented specifically for the automobile. Ships now have marine radar that allows one to view tens of miles beyond the eye. \"At common law a motorist is required to regulate his speed so that he can stop within the range of his vision. In numerous jurisdictions, this rule has been incorporated in statutes which typically require that no person shall drive any motor vehicle in and upon any public road or highway at a greater speed than will permit him to bring it to a stop within the assured clear distance ahead.\" Decisional law usually settles the circumstances by which a portion of the roadway is assuredly clear without it being mentioned in statute. States where the judiciary has explicitly established the state's ACDA law include Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana, Michigan, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Tennessee, Vermont, and Wisconsin. California maintains this duty, notwithstanding whatever the care of an ordinary person.\n\nMany states have further passed statutes which require their courts to more inflexibly weigh the ACDA in their determination of reasonable speed or behavior. Such statutes do so in part by designating ACDA violations as a citable driving offense, thus burdening an offending driver to rebut a presumption of negligence. States with such explicit ACDA standard of care provisions include: Iowa, Michigan, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, and Texas.\n\nStates which apply the principle by statute to watercraft on navigable waterways include all 174 member states of the International Maritime Organization, notwithstanding membership: Great Britain and its common law inheriting Commonwealth of Nations, The United States, Florida, Hawaii, Illinois, Louisiana, Michigan, Montana, Oregon, Texas, and West Virginia.\n\nMost state issued driver handbooks either instruct or mention the ACDA rule as required care or safe practice.\n\nExplicit ACDA statutes and regulations, especially those of which create a citable driving or maritime offense, are aimed at preventing harm that could result from potentially negligent behavior—whereas the slightly more obscure common law ACDA doctrine is most easily invoked to remedy actual damages that have already occurred as a result of such negligence. Unsafe speed statutes are immune from being void for vagueness when they contain explicit ACDA clauses. Explicit and implicit ACDA rules govern millions of North American drivers.\n\nNot all jurisdictions have applied the rule uniformly, most often differing over exceptions for specific \"sudden emergencies.\" There has been an increased interest in the ACDA codified as a universal standard of care that has been brought about by recent technological and social changes such as: event data recorders, dashcams, self-driving cars, safe cities and multi-use movements, and a movement to reduce claims by speeders against governments for \"dangerous conditions\" when operating speeds exceed a roads inferred design speed.\n\nCollision liability has historically benefited the law profession by being cloaked as a mixture of fact and law, but with EDR's precisely preserving \"a state of facts\" often repeated with differing trial outcomes, collisions are less a question of fact, but of law. Electronic access to precise EDR data and rulings with new ideological modeling tools, can now expose judges as consistent political advocates for differing special road user interests. Furthermore, the law needs to be clear, precise, and uniform at a national level for the panoply of automobile manufacturers with the strict liability for their programming of law-abiding self-driving vehicles. It is foreseeable that two self-driving car makes can collide because their algorithm of the law letter is different; a resolvable issue that has been troubling human drivers for decades. The ACDA is a standard with descriptive mathematics, much of which are used in reverse by road engineers when designing or re-engineering roads to a speed criteria—for which its users were expected to follow.\n\nIn a trend epitomized by the Great American streetcar scandal, and accelerated by red scare hysteria, automobile interests became very powerful through the 1980s, even filing one-sided amicus curiae briefs to narrow precedent making it difficult for all prior types of users to exercise their easement to the roadways; its goal was towards making all roads controlled-access highways. In at least one jurisdiction, it could no longer be said \"as a matter of law\" whether a cyclist is a discernible object for which a motorist with proper lookout had a duty to see; an intolerant jury could fault a cyclist for \"being in the way\" notwithstanding that objects are less discernible and more \"sudden\" as one travels with reckless speed. Common law precedent was eroded through the creation of distinctions where none really exists (i.e. visibility of cyclist v.s. pedestrian v.s. warning triangle). These successes in-part contributed to mass congestion, smog, high fuel prices, and obesity, which waned the power of this lobby, and now green multi-modal transportation is Federally encouraged. The ACDA common law rule is more critical than ever to public safety in such multi-modal environment. A continued lack of such standard, or its effective enforcement by both police and judges may substantially diminish the legality of humans ever driving in the future.\n\nThe range of visibility of which is the \"de facto\" ACDA, is usually that distance before which an ordinary person can see small hazards—such as a traffic cone or buoy—with 20/20 vision. This distance may be attenuated by specific conditions such as atmospheric opacity, blinding glare, darkness, road design, and adjacent environmental hazards including civil and recreational activities, horse-drawn vehicle, ridden animal, livestock, deer, crossing traffic, and parked cars. The ACDA may also be somewhat attenuated on roads with lower functional classification.\nThis is because the probability of spontaneous traffic increases proportionally to the density of road access points, and this density reduces the distance a person exercising ordinary care can be assured that a road will be clear; such reduction in the ACDA is readily apparent from the conditions, even when a specific access point or the traffic thereon is not. Furthermore, even though a through-driver may typically presume all traffic will stay assuredly clear when required by law, such driver may not take such presumption when circumstances provide actual knowledge under ordinary care that such traffic cannot obey the law. During times of darkness, commercial vehicles can see ahead about 250 feet with low beams, and about 350–500 feet with high beams. This clear distance corresponds to a maximum safe speed of 52 mph and 65-81 mph respectively on dry pavement with good tires, which is attenuated further by convex and lateral road curvature; safe speed is always dynamic. Non-commercial vehicles have even shorter lighting distances. Drivers commonly drive the maximum posted speed limit at night, often in violation of the ACDA rule and this shows up in accident data.\n\nAs a corollary to the rule that drivers generally must not pose an \"immediate hazard\" upon where or when they cannot assure such distance ahead is clear, it follows that others may presume that no vehicle is posing an \"immediate hazard\" from beyond where they can see with proper lookout. Where there are cross roads or side roads with view obstructions, the assured clear distance terminates at the closest path of potential users of the roadway until there is such a view which assures the intersection will remain clear. In such situations, approach speed must be reduced in preparation for entering or crossing a road or intersection or the unmarked pedestrian crosswalks and bike paths they create because of potential hazards. This jurisprudence arises in-part because of the known difficulty in estimating the distance and velocity of an approaching vehicle, which is psychophysically explained by its small angular size and belated divergence from an asymptotically null rate of expansion, which is beyond the subtended angular velocity detection threshold (SAVT) limits of visual acuity by way of the Stevens' power law and Weber–Fechner law, until the vehicle may be dangerously close; subjective constancy and the visual angle illusion may also play a role.</math>. Given a vehicle of size formula_1 and distance formula_2, the visual angle is: formula_3. Its derivative with respect to distance is formula_4. An approaching vehicle of constant velocity formula_5 will decrease the distance at rate formula_6. The time rate of visual expansion is obtained from the rate at which the subtended angle grows with decreased distance, multiplied by the rate at which the distance lessens with time: formula_7. It follows that formula_8. Hence, an approaching vehicle's looming motion is not perceivable until formula_9, where the term is omitted with small-angle approximation. The units of measurement for size, distance, and velocity variables must be of the same system (i.e. multiply by to convert MPH to ft/s or to convert km/h to m/s or to convert deg to requisite rad). Read more about this topic|group=\"Note\"}} Vehicles that are approaching an intersection from beyond the SAVT limit cannot be reliably distinguished between moving or parked, though they may be traveling at such an imprudent speed as to pose an immediate hazard. In this circumstance, it is impossible for the entering driver to have fair notice that his or her contemplated conduct is forbidden by such hazard, and any legal expectation to the contrary would implicate violating the vagueness doctrine of the US Constitution. It is the duty of the through-driver to slow down and apply the ACDA principle specifically to the intersection.\nSee Table of detection thresholds.\n\nWhen approaching an un-signalized intersection controlled by a stop sign, the assured clear distance ahead is:\n\nNormal acceleration \"\" for a passenger vehicle from a stop up to 20 mph is about 0.15g, with more than 0.3g being difficult to exceed. The distance \"\" is the sum of the measured limit line setback distance—which is typically regulated by a Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, at often between 4 and 30 feet in the United States—and the crosswalk, parking lane, and road shoulder width. A vehicle accelerating from a stop travels this distance in time while through traffic travels a distance equal to their speed multiplied by that time. The time , for the stopped motorist, is the sum of perception time and the time required to actuate an automatic transmission or shift to first gear which is usually between to one second.\nHorizontal clearance is measured from the edge of the traveled way to the bottom of the nearest object, tree trunk or shrub foliage mass face, plant setback, or mature growth. Horizontal sight distance is not to be confused with the clear recovery zone which provides hazardous vegetation set-back to allow errant vehicles to regain control, and is exclusive to a mowed and limbed-up forest which can allow adequate sight distance, but unsafe recovery. The height and lateral distance of plants restrict the horizontal sight distance, at times obscuring wildlife which may be spooked by an approaching vehicle and run across the road to escape with their herd. This principle also applies to approaching vehicles and pedestrians at uncontrolled intersections and to a lesser degree by un-signalized intersections controlled by a yield sign. Horizontal sight distance \" affects the ACDA because the time it takes for an intercepting object, animal, pedestrian, or vehicle with speed \" to transverse this distance after emerging from the proximate edge of lateral visibility affords a vehicle with speed \"\" a clear distance of \".\" Thus, the assured clear intercept distance \"\" is:\n\nThe faster one drives, the farther down-road an interceptor must be in order to be able to transverse the horizontal sight distance in time to collide, however this says nothing of whether the vehicle can stop by the end of this type of assured clear distance. Equating this distance to the total stopping distance and solving for speed yields one's maximum safe speed as purely dictated by the horizontal sight distance.\n\nThe ACDA may also be dynamic as to the moving distance past which a motorist can be assured to be able to stay clear of a foreseeable dynamic hazard—such as to maintain a distance as to be able to safely swerve around a bicyclist should he succumb to a fall—without requiring a full stop beforehand, if doing so could be exercised with due care towards surrounding traffic. Quantitatively this distance is a function of the appropriate time gap and the operating speed: . The assured clear distance ahead rule, rather than being subject to exceptions, is not really intended to apply beyond situations in which a vigilant ordinarily prudent person could or should anticipate. A common way to violate the dynamic ACDA is by tailgating.\n\nThe most accurate way to determine the ACDA is to directly measure it. Whereas this is impractical, sight distance formulas can be used with less direct measurements as rough baseline estimates. The empirical assured clear distance ahead calculated with computer vision, range finding, traction control, and GIS, such as by properly programming computer hardware used in autonomous cars, can be recorded to later produce or color baseline ACDA and safe speed maps for accident investigation, traffic engineering, and show disparities between safe speed and 85th percentile \"operating\" speed. Self-driving cars may have a higher safe speed than human driven vehicles for a given ACDA where computer perception-reaction times are nearly instantaneous.\n\nThe Assured Clear Distance Ahead can be subjective to the baseline estimate of a reasonable person or be predetermined by law. For example, whether one should have reasonably foreseen that a road was not assuredly clear past 75–100 meters because of tractors or livestock which commonly emerge from encroaching blinding vegetation is on occasion dependent on societal experience within the locale. In certain urban environments, a straight, traffic-less, through-street may not necessarily be assuredly clear past the entrance of the nearest visually obstructed intersection as law. Within the assured clear distance ahead, there is certainty that travel will be free from obstruction which is exclusive of a failure to appreciate a hazard. Collisions generally only occur within one's assured clear distance ahead which are \"unavoidable\" to them such that they have zero comparative negligence including legal acts of god and abrupt unforeseeably wanton negligence by another party. Hazards which penetrate one's proximate edge of clear visibility and compromise their ACDA generally require evasive action.\n\nDrivers need not and are not required to precisely determine the maximum safe speed from real-time mathematical calculations of sight distances and stopping distances for their particular vehicle. Motor vehicle operators of average intelligence are constantly required to utilize their kinesthetic memory in all sorts of driving tasks including every time they brake to a full stop at a stop line in a panoply of conditions. Like throwing a softball, one does not have to mathematically calculate a trajectory or firing solution in order to hit a target with repeated accuracy. During the earliest stages of learning how to drive, one develops a memory of when to start braking (how long it takes) from various speeds in order to stop at the limit line. While there may be a degree of variance of such skill in seasoned drivers, they generally do not have the discretion in engaging in a behavior such as driving a speed above which no reasonable minds might differ as to whether it is unsafe or that one could come to a stop within the full distance ahead.\n\nDrivers and law enforcement alike can apply elementary level arithmetic towards a rule of thumb to estimate minimal stopping distance in terms of how many seconds of travel ahead at their current speed. For speed \"\" in miles per hour, this rule of thumb is as follows:\n\nIf this distance is greater than the ACDA, they need to slow down. While most experienced drivers develop a broad intuition required by everyday braking, this rule of thumb can still benefit some to recalibrate expectations for rare hard braking, particularly from high speeds. Additional simple corrections can be made to compensate for the environment and driving ability. Read more about the Seconds of Distance to Stop Rule.\n\nThe ACDA distances are a principal component to be evaluated in the determination of the maximum safe speed (V) under the basic speed law, without which the maximum safe speed cannot be determined. As mathematical statements are more precise than verbal statements alone, the relation of the ACDA as a subset of the basic speed rule for land based vehicles may be objectively quantified as follows:\n\nThe value of the variable \"e\" is the sine of the angle of inclination of the road's slope. For a level road this value is zero, and for small angles it approximates the road's percent grade divided by one hundred.\n\nThe maximum velocity permitted by the Assured Clear Distance Ahead is controlling of safe speed (V) for only the top and two cases. Safe speed may be greater or less than the actual legal speed limit depending upon the conditions along the road.\n\nSee reference V derivations for basic physics explanation.\n\nFor the top case, the maximum speed is governed by the assured clear \"line-of-sight\", as when the \"following distance\" aft of forward traffic and \"steering control\" are both adequate. Common examples include when there is no vehicle to be viewed, or when there is a haze or fog that would prevent visualizing a close vehicle in front. This maximum velocity is denoted by the case variable formula_15, the friction coefficient is symbolized by formula_16—and itself a function of the tire type and road conditions, the distance formula_17 is the static ACDA, the constant formula_18 is the acceleration of gravity, and interval formula_19 is the perception-reaction time—usually between 1.0 and 2.5 seconds.\n\nSee \n\nThe second case describes the relationship of horizontal sight distance on safe speed. It is the maximum speed at which a vehicle can come to a full stop before an object, with speed V, can intercept after having emerged and traveled across the horizontal sight distance \"d.\" Urban and residential areas have horizontal sight distances that tend to be closely obstructed by parked cars, utility poles, street furnishing, fencing, signage, and landscaping, but have slower intercepting speeds of children, pedestrians, backing cars, and domestic animals. These interceptors combined with dense usage results in collisions that are more probable and much more likely to inflict harm to an outside human life. In rural areas, swift-moving spooked wildlife such as deer, elk, moose, and antelope are more likely to intercept a roadway at over 30 mph (48 kph). Wildlife will frequently transit across a road before a full stop is necessary, however collisions with large game are foreseeably lethal, and a driver generally has a duty not to harm his or her passengers. The foreseeable intercept speed or defectively designed horizontal sight distance may vary \"reasonably\" with judicial discretion.\n\nSee \n\nThis third case regards safe speed around un-signalized intersections where a driver on an uncontrolled through street has a duty to slow down in crossing an intersection and permit controlled drivers to be able pass through the intersection without danger of collision. The driver on the through street must anticipate and hence not approach at an unsafe speed which would prevent another driver from being able to enter while traffic was some distance away, or would be unsafe to a driver who has already established control of the intersection under a prudent acceleration a, from a stop at a limit line a distance d away.\n\nThe pedantic fourth case applies when the dynamic ACDA \"following distance\" (d) is less than the static ACDA \"line-of-sight\" distance (d). A classic instance of this occurs when, from a visibility perspective, it would be safe to drive much faster were it not for a slower-moving vehicle ahead. As such, the dynamic ACDA is governing the basic speed rule, because in maintaining this distance, one cannot drive at a faster speed than that matching the forward vehicle. The \"time gap\" t or \"time cushion\" is the time required to travel the dynamic ACDA or \"following distance\" at the operating speed. Circumstances depending, this cushion might be manifested as a two-second rule or three-second rule.\n\nSee Table of 2-second following distances\n\nIn the fifth case, critical speed V applies when road curvature is the factor limiting safe speed. A vehicle which exceeds this speed will slide out of its lane. Critical speed is a function of curve radius \"r,\" superelevation or banking \"e,\" and friction coefficient \"μ;\" the constant \"g\" again is the acceleration of gravity. However, most motorists will not tolerate a lateral acceleration exceeding 0.3g (μ=0.3) above which many will panic. Hence, critical speed may not resemble loss of control speed. Attenuated \"side\" friction coefficients are often used for computing critical speed. The formula is frequently approximated without the denominator for low angle banking which may be suitable for nearly all situations except the tightest radius of highway onramps. The principle of critical speed is often applied to the problem of traffic calming, where curvature is both used to govern maximum road speed, and used in traffic circles as a device to force drivers to obey their duty to slow down when approaching an intersection.\n\nSee Table of curvatures and critical speeds\n\nThe bottom case is invoked when the maximum velocity for surface control V is otherwise reached. Steering control is independent from any concept of clear distance ahead. If a vehicle cannot be controlled so as to safely remain within its lane above a certain speed and circumstance, then it is irrelevant how assuredly clear the distance is ahead. Using the example of the previous case, the safe speed on a curve may be such that a driver experiences a lateral acceleration of less than 0.3g despite that the vehicle may not slide until it experiences 0.8g. Speed wobble, hydroplaning, roll center, fishtailing, jackknife tendencies, potholes, washboarding, frost heaving, and tire speed rating are other factors limiting V.\n\nSafe speed is the maximum speed permitted by the basic speed law and negligence doctrine. Safe speed is not the same as the 85 percentile operating speed used by traffic engineers in establishing speed zones. Fog, snow, or ice can create conditions where most people drive too fast, and chain reaction accidents in such conditions are examples of where large groups of drivers collided because they failed to reduce speed for the conditions. The speeds at which most people drive can only be a very rough guide to safe speed, and an illegal or negligent custom or practice is not in itself excusable. Safe speed approximates the inferred design speed adjusted for environmental alterations and vehicle and person specific factors when V is the limiting factor. The Solomon curve concept can create an approach-avoidance conflict within the driver who wishes neither to drive faster than is lawful and the conditions allow nor have an unsafe speed discrepancy between other vehicles on the road; it is never legal to go faster than the speed limit, and unilaterally reducing the risk of the latter can lead to a mass crash caused by the former.\nMany people are challenged by the concept of \"unsafe speed\" because they find it vague and arbitrary. It is well known that people instead resolve such challenges by attribute substitution, which in this case can mean simply emulating the behaviors of others. In accord with the cultural theory of risk, indeed a substantial part of a driver's risk perception comes from comparing their contemplated conduct to the behavior of others; this includes the safeness of a given speed, notwithstanding the actual risk. As a result of this uncorrected vagueness, group behavior can often be in opposition to safe speed and still be governing a hazardous posted speed limit. By Federal law, posted speed limits are generally within 5 mph of the 85th-percentile speed of free-flowing traffic. Functionality, this amounts to citizens \"voting\" a street's speed limit with their gas pedal from the influence of groupshift. As people generally follow explicit rules all the time of which they do not agree, it is often simply a jurisdiction's failure in their law to sufficiently quantify and disseminate fair notice of an explicit standard of care, such as the ACDA rule. Most DMV driver manuals teach the practice, but far fewer states explicitly back it up in their actual statutes and law enforcement. If drivers were mindful of the ACDA, the \"operating speed\" would by definition not exceed the \"inferred design speed\". In some cases, police focused on driving while \"influenced,\" pull over slower quartile sober night-time drivers moving no faster than they can stop within the radius of their headlights; this discourages adjusting speed downward from anything but the posted \"maximum speed\" permitted by law—which is determined as previously described. It is often unsafe or illegal to drive in excess of 40-50 mph at night.\n\nActor James Dean's 85 mph car crash, Princess Diana's death, and the sinking of the RMS \"Titanic\" after colliding with an iceberg at night are all well publicized tragedies which resulted from a failure to maintain an assured clear distance ahead. It has been widely portrayed that T. E. Lawrence (of Arabia) who habitually drove his motorcycle at high speeds, ultimately crashed his motorcycle because he was riding faster than he could stop within his field of vision. The principle was amid the controversy in the 2018 death of Elaine Herzberg, the first pedestrian killed by an autonomous car; the vehicle was traveling at in a zone at night.\n\nA general principle in liability doctrine is than an accident which would not have occurred except for the action or inaction of some person or entity contrary to a duty such as the exercise of proper care was the result of negligence. The liability space from which one can recover is typically, themselves, other parties, or nobody. Jurisdictional exceptions permitting one to legally take \"assurance\" that the distance will be clear beyond the proximate edge of clear visibility and choose such a speed accordingly, transfers classic common law liability from that driver for his or her \"blind\" actions. This duty to assure clear distance ahead is inevitably transferred, as an externality to everybody or thing else who must instead warn the driver, such as the government, its road engineers, and maintainers.\n\nAs it is generally probable and foreseeable that, chance will permit, and at some point there will be an obstruction beyond some driver's line of sight, such an entitlement challenges centuries of precedent in negligence doctrine in addition to posing difficult policy and engineering challenges. It also violates the calculus of negligence because speed is an inherent factor in vehicular accidents which are a leading cause of priceless life loss and lawsuits, and the burden of a precautions speed is radically lower than the former.\n\nThe assumption of risk resulting from the unsafe activity of driving faster than one can stop within one's vision, does not depend \"ex post facto\" on what you happened to hit, for which by nature you could not have known; it could have been a moose or a luxury car. Furthermore, modern times still provide no legal remedies for Darwinian misfortune upon the entire class of unwarnable accidents where drivers and their passengers would not have collided into the likes of a moose, livestock, fallen tree, rock, jetsam, horse-drawn vehicle, stalled vehicle, school bus, garbage truck, mail carrier, snowplow, washout, snow drift, or slid off the road, were it not for their decisions to drive faster than dictated by the assured clear distance ahead. Regardless of what behavior an authority might encourage by fabricating new rights, it remains timeless that constituents cannot sue the wind for causing a wreck when it inevitably violates a \"modern right to drive faster than permitted by the ACDA\" by failing to warning them it knocked down a tree in a forest with lots of trees which all eventually fall down. In this specific regard, jurisdictions which grant drivers the liberty to be fools from their own folly, are also condoning the collateral damage and life loss which is expected to occur. Moreover, modern life-entrusting consumers of driving services and driver-less cars who suffer such caused injury are left without legal remedy for foreseeable outcome of imprudent speed; this in-turn unnecessarily transfers a substantive portion of the ACDA liability space into act of god, government claims, strict liability, or other findings from legal fiction which the justice system generally abhors. What modern times are changing is that one may assure the distance is clear ahead virtually through the Internet of Things, as smart cars connect to get information from smart highways or pass what they see ahead or measure to traffic behind. A fundamental corollary of the ACDA rule is that technology, expectations, and desires may modernize, but the laws of physics can not and do not. The deceleration coefficients and reactions times may change from conveyance by chariot, horse and buggy, internal combustion engine, electric motor, and by driver-less car, but the equations governing stopping distances are immutable. Finally, where it is the policy of the law not to fault well intending diligent citizens for innocent mistakes, human life reaps continued benefit from the ACDA duty of which instills the necessary room to survive uninjured from such foreseeable and excusable error while adding redundancy in the responsibility to avoid a collision; mere unilateral duties laid down to assure the safety of others tend to result in hazardous risk compensation by those unfettered parties resulting in a moral hazard.\n\nAllowing one to drive faster than their vision permits them to safely stop, results in there being no core standard of care regarding safe speed making unsafe speed laws void for vagueness. The ACDA minimum standard gives fair notice of what conduct is prohibited, and people of ordinary intelligence can apply their braking experience or the seconds of distance to stop rule to the distance they can see; once one is allowed to cruise-on without control beyond the edge of visibility, there is little consensus on what arbitrary speed is unsafe, or what to assume of the vague conditions there-past.\n\nTo be able to guarantee \"assurance\" beyond proximate edge of clear visibility, in doing so exempting ACDA duty, a road must be designed and maintained such that there is not a chance of obstruction in one's lane beyond the proximate edge of clear visibility. A road's vertical profile must be assured to have such a curvature as not to hide hazards close behind its crests. Discretion for drivers and pedestrians to enter onto a potentially occupied lane from a side street must be assuredly eliminated such as with fences, merge lanes, or signalized access. There must also be an assurance of no opportunity for animals and debris to enter from side lots, and that there are continuous multi-hourly maintenance patrols performed. Furthermore, such road sections must be distinguished from other roads so that the driver could clearly and immediately know when he or she may or may not take such extended \"assurance.\" Few roads might meet these requirements except some of the highest functional classification controlled-access highways such as freeways and autobahns.\n\nEven if such criteria are met, the law must also exempt driver liability for maintaining clear distance ahead. In most democracies, such liability for failures of the distance to remain clear beyond line of sight would ultimately be transferred to its taxpayers. This only generally occurs when governments have been tasked by constituents or their courts to take the responsibly to design and maintain roadways that \"assure\" the distance will be clear beyond the proximate edge of clear visibility. Pressures to make such changes may arise from cultural and unnecessary risk, misunderstanding the purpose of the road functional classification system, underestimation of increased risk, and reclamation of commute time.\n\nOne of the greatest difficulties created by such an extension of the ACDA is the frequency at which roads reduce their functional classification unbeknownst to drivers who continue unaware they have lost this extended \"assurance\" or don't understand the difference. Such nuance in applicable jurisdictions is a prolific source of accidents. In the United States, there is no explicit road marking promising clear distance beyond line of sight in the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, although there are communicating \"limited sight distance,\" \"hill blocks view,\" \"crossroad ahead,\" and \"freeway ends.\" A partial solution to this challenge is to remove driver discretion in determining whether the ACDA is extended beyond line of sight, by explicitly designating this law change to certain marked high functional classification roadways having meet strict engineering criteria.\n\nThe ACDA rule is analogous to aviation visual flight rules, and its discussed exception—allowed only in a well regulated control zone—is analogous to instrument flight rules. Unlike both visual and instrumental flight rules, where federal and international administrative law applies seamlessly and uniformly across the states, the ACDA rule governing ground transportation is relatively variegated across states and judicial circuits. Primitive patchwork governance over a prominent interstate commercial subject, in a modern era where citizens quickly and more frequently travel father than ever before, creates problems for modern driver-less cars which are programmed, distributed, sold, and traded at national levels. As opposed to a strict standard of care, delegation of such standard to a jury assumes the representativeness heuristic for twelve people to determine ordinary care representative of everyone while ignoring its insensitivity to sample size, which of course when applied to multiple cases involving identical situational circumstances results in many verdicts with opposing extreme views, which works against the utility of the law by making it arbitrarily vague. A national uniformity standard which either administratively lays down the ACDA law as has been done for aircraft, or requires states to legislatively enact in order to receive federal DOT funding as has been done for the national legal drinking age, is a subject of debate for those who argue far more people die in cars than in aircraft. While group polarization towards safety has shifted the criminal blood alcohol threshold below levels for which the risk is statistically marginal, the tolerance for speeding—of which each speed unit increment carries an equatable risk relative to BAC—remains relatively neglected. Speed is responsible for more crashes and economic loss than is alcohol. The discrepancy may be partly explained by powerful special interest groups that are lobbying against drunk driving and for loser speed regulation.\n\nStarting with Newton's Second Law of Motion and the Laws of Friction:\n\nEquating the net force to mass times acceleration:\n\nInvoking the equations of motion and substituting acceleration:\n\nSmall-angle approximation:\n\nSubstituting the small angle approximations, and exploiting that the product of a small angle squared, in radians, with the friction coefficient, θμ, is insignificant (for a steep 20% slope and a good friction coef. of 0.8, this equals (.2)x0.8≈0.03):\n\nNow, the total stopping distance is the sum of the braking and perception-reaction distances:\n\nIsolating zero as preparation to solve for velocity:\n\nCompleting the square or invoking the quadratic formula to find the solution:\n\nUse small-angle approximation to obtain a more field-able version of the above solution in terms of percent grade/100 \"e\" instead of an angle θ in radians:\n\nSubstituting the angle as described produces the form of the formula of case 1 ():\n\nThe Basic Speed Law constrains the Assured Clear Distance Ahead to the total stopping distance, and the small angle value of road grades approximates the superelevation \"e.\"\n\nMany roadways are level, in which case the small angle approximations or superelevation may be dropped altogether:\n\n\"This model ignores the effects of air drag, rolling resistance, lift, and relativity as a vehicle's great momentum and weight dominate these factors; they increase the complexity of the formulas while insubstantially changing the outcomes in practically all driving situations except ultra-low-mass bicycles stopping from inherently dangerously high speeds; usability to the layman and conformance with current standard engineering assumptions is the objective and a vehicle's lift factor is often inaccessible. Learn a level ground model with most of those effects here or read about the automobile drag coefficient.\"\n\nThe time required for an obstruction with speed v to transect the horizontal sight distance d:\n\nThe time required to travel down a road at speed v to said obstruction of distance d away:\n\nEquating the two times:\n\nSolving for this distance:\n\nEquating this to the total stopping distance, which is the sum of braking and perception-reaction distances:\n\nIsolating zero, and factoring out a v:\n\nSolving for the non-trivial case (or may distribute v in equation above and apply quadratic formula for same result):\n\nThe solution to the above equation, which provides the maximum safe speed as a function of horizontal sight distance, intercept velocity, and road-tire friction coefficient:\n\nThe time required for a vehicle to enter a controlled intersection from a stop is the sum of the perception time (t), the time required to actuate an automatic transmission or shift to first gear (t), and the time to accelerate and enter or traverse the road (t). The sum of the first two quantities is t.\n\nThe time required for a vehicle entering with acceleration a to transect the sum of the setback and shoulder distances d under uniform acceleration a from a stop via the :\n\nThe time required to travel down a road at speed v to said obstruction of distance d away:\n\nEquating the two times:\n\nSolving for this distance:\n\nEquating this to the total stopping distance, which is the sum of braking and perception-reaction distances:\n\nIsolating zero, and factoring out a v:\n\nSolving for the non-trivial case (or may distribute v in equation above and apply quadratic formula for same result):\n\nThe solution to the above equation, which provides the maximum safe speed as a function of horizontal setback, intercept acceleration, and road-tire friction coefficient:\n\nFrom the :\n\nIsolating for speed:\n\nStarting with Newton's Laws of Motion, the Laws of Friction, and Centripetal force:\n\nSubstituting formulas for Centripetal force, frictional force, and gravitational force:\n\nThe normal force is equal and opposite to the sum of the gravitational and centripetal components:\n\nIsolate formula_5 terms:\n\nThen solve for formula_5:\n\nTo obtain:\nThis is the full solution, however most corners are banked at less than 15 degrees (≈28% grade), so in such conditions, a fieldable small angle approximation may be used.\n\nSubstituting small-angle approximations sinθ≈θ, cos≈1-θ/2:\n\nExploit that a small angle squared, in radians, is insignificant by substituting θ≈0 which obtains the formula used in case 5 (also tanθ≈e):\n\nThe \"seconds-of-distance-to-stop rule\" is derived as follows.\n\nWe first obtain the total stopping distance and then convert it into travel time, which is more easily applicable by the driver.\n\nInvoking the equations of motion,\n\nwhere\n\nThe time it takes to casually traverse the stopping distance at the travel speed is\n\nSubstituting the former into the latter,\n\nThis can be simplified into the rule-of-thumb form\n\nby noting that\n\nSubstituting (US Customary units)\n\nwe have\n\nThis results in a seconds-of-distance-to-stop rule (in MPH) of\n\nThe dry rule does allow one to travel faster in dry weather, but expect emergency deceleration to be a bit uncomfortable. If one desires to remember only one rule, use the wet one. However, because the difference between wet and dry is half-a-second at 30 MPH and one second at 60 MPH, and because dividing by two is easier than three, we can use a correctable rule of thumb:\n\nFor example, a speed of corresponds to stopping distance of 4 seconds' travel at 60 mph. Drivers that require additional perception-reaction time, such as novices, elderly, or those in complex or adverse environments, can benefit by adding additional seconds.\n\nThe time to traverse your stopping distance at travel speed should not be confused with the braking time to come to a full stop, which is a number nearly twice this value ( ). As one is continually slowing down while braking, it will naturally take longer to get to the stopping limit.\n\nA more correct perception-reaction time of one-and-a-half seconds is commonly used by the mathematically inclined. Doing so to obtain your \"seconds-of-distance-to-stop\" for \"dry pavement\" and then converting time to actual distance by multiplying it by the travel velocity and to convert MPH to fps will yield results in close agreement with this table.\n\nWhereas most driving is done below , \"maintaining a blanket 5 or 6 seconds of travel time to the edge of visibility\" (), \"will keep drivers in compliance with the ACDA rule in most simple highway driving conditions – day or night\" – with growing error towards safety at lower speeds.\n\nOn final note, slope has an effect on stopping distance. An additional second or so will need to be added when stopping while traveling down a steep incline, and conversely driving uphill will improve breaking. This is accounting that a level road was assumed in the rule of thumb. \n\nSee also Tire friction and rolling resistance coefficients\n\nSee Car specific accelerations\n\nSee more animal intercept speeds. See article on speed.\n\nSee article on Tire Codes\n\nThe speed values in this table are produced from the formula using an \"average\" coefficient of friction (μ) of 0.7, and a perception-reaction time of 1.5 seconds. Speed values specific to a given circumstance can be obtained with the same formula using the appropriate reference constants specific to the circumstance.\n\nThis table demonstrates why alleyways, parking lots, parks, and residential areas frequently set 5-15 mph speed limits when the side clearance from the road is less than 15 feet. An urban or residential street which permits a maximum speed limit of 25 mph under its very best conditions (roadsides cleared of visual obstructions past a 20-foot maintained right of way), may in practice be unsafe to drive at more than 10 mph within sections with utilized curbside parking. This table also suggests that the safe speed could be greater than a statutory 25 mph posted speed, where roadside clearance is sufficient such that no \"foreseeable\" object could emerge from the proximate edge of roadside visibility, transect the cleared area, and intercept the lane before the driver could come to a halt. However, wary road design engineers may have differing views of foreseeable intercept speeds than that reflected by the 85th percentile speed chosen by the public. This can have unfortunate consequences where a mass commuting public is unfamiliar with or does not appreciate specific local hazards. Narrow lane widths are purposely used for traffic calming, because careful drivers universally choose their speed depending on the roadway width. Standard horizontal clearances are commonly set by AASHTO guidelines or a jurisdiction's department of transportation.\n\nThe speed values in these tables are produced from the formula using an \"average\" coefficient of friction (μ) of 0.7, and a perception-reaction time of 1.5 seconds. Speed values specific to a given circumstance can be obtained with the same formula using the appropriate reference constants specific to the circumstance.\n\nSpeed values specific to a given circumstance can be obtained with the same formula using the appropriate reference constants specific to the circumstance.\n\nThe speed values in this table are produced from the formula using an \"average\" coefficient of friction (μ) of 0.7 and zero superelevation. Speed values specific to a given circumstance can be obtained with the same formula using the appropriate reference constants specific to the circumstance.\n\nMost motorists will not tolerate a lateral acceleration exceeding 0.3g (μ=0.3) above which many will panic.\n\nSpeed values specific to a given circumstance can be obtained with the same formula using the appropriate reference constants specific to the circumstance.\n\nFor a person with SAVT limit of formula_92, the looming motion of a directly approaching object of size , moving at velocity , is not delectable until its distance is\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44495545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44495545", "title": "BSTAR", "text": "BSTAR\n\nBSTAR is a way of modeling aerodynamic drag on a satellite in the SGP4 satellite orbit propagation model.\n\nTraditionally, aerodynamic resistance (\"drag\") is given by\n\nwhere\nformula_2 is the air density,\nformula_3 is the drag coefficient,\nformula_4 is the frontal area, and\nformula_5 is the velocity.\n\nThe acceleration due to drag is then\n\nIn aerodynamic theory, the factor\n\nis called the ballistic coefficient, and its unit is area per mass. Further incorporating a reference air density and the factor of two in the denominator, we get the \"starred\" ballistic coefficient:\n\nthus reducing the expression for the acceleration due to drag to\n\nAs it can be seen, formula_10 has a unit of inverse length. For orbit propagation purposes, there is a field for BSTAR drag in Two-line element set (TLE) files, where it is to be given in units of inverse Earth radii. The corresponding reference air density is given as 0.1570 kg/m^2/Earth radii.\n\n"}
{"id": "604605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=604605", "title": "Being in itself", "text": "Being in itself\n\nBeing-in-itself is the self-contained and fully realized Being of objects. It is a term used in early 20th century continental philosophy, especially in the works of Martin Heidegger, Jean-Paul Sartre, Simone de Beauvoir, and the existentialists.\n\nIn the philosophy of Martin Heidegger, Being-in-itself is contrasted with the being of persons, which he terms Dasein. \"Dasein means: care of the Being of beings as such that is ecstatically disclosed in care, not only of human Being...Dasein is \"itself\" by virtue of its essential \"relation to\" Being in general.\" Heidegger recognized the dangers inherent to talking about Being in general and particular beings, and thus devoted space in \"Being and Time\" and the \"Introduction to Metaphysics\" to an explication of the differences; often noted by translators who distinguish Being (Sein), from \"a\" being (das Seiende). His attention to the complication is helpful for those who are looking for detailed explanation, but rarely clears the air of confusions.\n\nDasein is Being that is aware of, and interested in, its own Being. Dasein is, by its nature, invested in social interaction and society. This is because in Heidegger's metaphysical system, one of the most fundamental ways to understand Being is through relationships. All things stand in a relation to all other things — and by virtue of his stress on Dasein's ontological distinction, things may also stand in relation to Dasein. The argument for this claim draws heavily on Hegel's great work, the \"Phenomenology of Spirit\". Essentially, Being in itself is one of Heidegger's main concerns throughout his authorship. Despite Heidegger's interest in it, he returns — more often than not indirectly — to the subject by interrogating other concepts that simply \"invoke\" Being without explicitly acknowledging it.\n\nIn other words, whereas Heidegger calls the being of persons 'Dasein', he determines 'Being in itself' to be at the same time the most vague and general concept possible to contemplate, but also the topic of greatest interest to him as a philosopher.\n\nIn Sartrean existentialism, being-in-itself (\"être-en-soi\") is also contrasted with the being of persons, which he describes as a combination of, or vacillation or tension between, being-for-itself (\"être-pour-soi\") and being-for-others (\"I'être-pour-autrui\"). \n\nBeing-in-itself refers to objects in the external world — a mode of existence that simply is. It is not conscious so it is neither active nor passive and harbors no potentiality for transcendence. This mode of being is relevant to inanimate objects, but not to humans, who Sartre says must always make a choice.\n\nOne of the problems of human existence for Sartre is the desire to attain being-in-itself, which he describes as the desire to be God — this is a longing for full control over one's destiny and for absolute identity, only attainable by achieving full control over the destiny of all existence. The desire to be God is one of the ways people fall into bad faith. Sartre's famous depiction of a man in a café who has applied himself to a portrayal of his role as a waiter illustrates this. The waiter thinks of himself as being a waiter (as in being-in-itself), which Sartre says is impossible since he cannot be a waiter in the sense that an inkwell is an inkwell. He is primarily a man (being-for-itself), just one who happens to be functioning as a waiter – with no fixed nature or essence, who is constantly recreating himself. He is guilty of focusing on himself as being-in-itself and not being-for-itself. Sartre would say that as a human, a being-for-itself by nature, the waiter is \"a being that is not what it is and it is what it is not.\" Therefore, the waiter who acts as if he is at his very core a waiter \"is not what [he] is\"- which is to say, he is not solely a waiter- and \"is what [he] is not\"- meaning that he is many things other than a waiter. In simply playing the part of a waiter, the man in this example is reducing himself to a \"being-in-itself\" and is therefore in bad faith.\n\n\n</div>\n\n"}
{"id": "2684734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2684734", "title": "Blau space", "text": "Blau space\n\nBlau space consists of the multidimensional coordinate system, created by considering the set of socio-demographic variables as dimensions. All socio-demographic characteristics are potential elements of Blau space, including continuous characteristics such as age, years of education, income, occupational prestige, geographic location, and so forth. In addition, categorical measures of socio-demographic characteristics such as race, sex, religion, birthplace, and others are Blau dimensions. \"Blau space\" is a theoretical construct which was developed by Miller McPherson and named after Peter Blau. It was later elaborated by McPherson and Ranger-Moore.\n\nThe organizing force in Blau space is the homophily principle, which argues that the flow of information from person to person is a declining function of distance in Blau space. Persons located at great distance in Blau space are very unlikely to interact, which creates the conditions for social differences in any characteristic that is transmitted through social communication. The homophily principle thus localizes communication in Blau space, leading to the development of social niches for human activity and social organization.\n\nAlthough the idea of Blau Space was originally developed to consider individuals, it was extended to the context of cities (and other urban units) in Neal's \"Building a Blauürban Space\".\n"}
{"id": "35764367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35764367", "title": "Bounded growth", "text": "Bounded growth\n\nBounded growth occurs when the growth rate of a mathematical function is constantly increasing at a decreasing rate. Asymptotically, bounded growth approaches a fixed value.\nThis contrasts with exponential growth, which is constantly increasing at an accelerating rate, and therefore approaches infinity in the limit.\n\nAn example of bounded growth is the logistic function.\n\n"}
{"id": "4412905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4412905", "title": "Causation in English law", "text": "Causation in English law\n\nCausation in English law concerns the legal tests of remoteness, causation and foreseeability in the tort of negligence. It is also relevant for English criminal law and English contract law.\n\nIn the English law of negligence, causation proves a direct link between the defendant’s negligence and the claimant’s loss and damage. For these purposes, liability in negligence is established when there is a breach of the duty of care owed by the defendant to the claimant that causes loss and damage, and it is reasonable that the defendant should compensate the claimant for that loss and damage. \n\nPolicy at this level is less than \"ordre public\", but nevertheless significant. The policy is to give bound to the scope of people who can claim damages, how much they can claim, and within what timeframe.\n\nThe claimant must prove that the breach of the duty of care caused actionable damage. The test for these purposes is a balance between proximity and remoteness: \nTo clarify the nature of the judicial process, in \"Lamb v Camden LBC\" (1981) QB 625, Lord Denning said:\nIn other words, the court's main task is to do justice as between these parties in their present situation. For this purpose, a weighing evaluative process is required, rather than a clear-cut rule of law. For example, in \"Meah v McCreamer and others (No. 2)\" (1986) 1 AER 943, the claimant suffered head injuries and brain damage as a result of the defendant's negligent driving, which led to a personality disorder. Four years later, he sexually assaulted and raped three women. The illegal nature of his conduct was not raised at the civil trial, and the claimant was held entitled to damages to compensate him for being imprisoned following his conviction. In separate proceedings, the three women assaulted obtained a judgment for compensation, so he sought indemnification from the negligent driver and his insurers for the amounts he had been ordered to pay. This was not a claim for his own personal injuries nor direct financial loss, but indirect loss. The three women could not have sued the driver directly because they were not foreseeable and so no duty of care was owed to them. The question was whether a person convicted of a crime was entitled to be indemnified against the consequences of that crime. Woolf J. held that the action would be dismissed on two grounds. First, the damages were too remote to be recoverable and, if such actions were to be allowed, it would leave insurers open to indefinite liability for an indefinite duration. Secondly, as a matter of policy, defendants should not have a right to be indemnified against the consequences of their crimes. In \"Clunis v Camden and Islington Health Authority\" (1998) QB 978 the claimant had been discharged from hospital where he had been detained under s3 Mental Health Act 1983. He was to receive aftercare services in the community under s117 Act 1983, but his mental condition deteriorated and, two months later, he fatally stabbed a stranger at a London Underground station. He pleaded guilty to manslaughter on the ground of diminished responsibility and was ordered to be detained in a secure hospital. Subsequently, he brought an action against his local health authority for negligence. The health authority applied to strike out the claim as disclosing no cause of action on two grounds. First, that the claim arose out of the health authority's statutory obligations under s117 Act 1983 and those obligations did not give rise to a common law duty of care. Secondly, that the claim was based on the plaintiff's own criminal act. In the Court of Appeal, the health authority's appeal was allowed on both grounds.\n\nThe basic test for establishing causation is the \"but-for\" test in which the defendant will be liable only if the claimant’s damage would not have occurred \"but for\" his negligence. Alternatively, the defendant will not be liable if the damage would, or could on the balance of probabilities, have occurred anyway, regardless of his or her negligence. To understand this, a distinction has to be made between cause and a precondition for the events. Lord Hoffmann in \"South Australia Asset Management Corp v York Montague Ltd\" gave a classic example.\n\"A mountaineer about to undertake a difficult climb is concerned about the fitness of his knee. He goes to a doctor who negligently makes a superficial examination and pronounces the knee fit. The climber goes on the expedition, which he would not have undertaken if the doctor had told him the true state of his knee. He suffers an injury which is an entirely foreseeable consequence of mountaineering but has nothing to do with his knee.\"\nThe doctor's negligence does result in the mountaineer running a risk which he otherwise would not have done, but this is insufficient to incur liability. The purpose of the doctor's duty to take care is to protect the mountaineer against injuries caused by the failure of the knee, not rock falls. Even though the injury might be reasonably foreseeable, the doctor is not liable. In \"The Empire Jamaica\" (1955) 1 AER 452, the owners sent their ship to sea without properly licensed officers. The pilot fell asleep, and a collision occurred. Though the pilot was negligent at the time, he was generally competent. Thus the question for the courts was: were the owners liable for the collision because they sent their ship to sea without properly licensed officers? Or was the factual precondition superseded by the question as to the competence of the pilot? There is no question that sending the ship to sea is \"a cause\" of the collision. The legal question is whether it is \"the cause\". This is a question that the courts treat as objective, addressed by evidence and argument. Hart and Honoré (1985) describe the process for establishing legal causation as constructing a parallel series of events (counterfactual situation), and comment: \"the parallel series is constructed by asking what the course of events would have been had the defendant acted lawfully.\" Thus, the owners were not liable. Although they sent the ship to sea without licensed officers (what actually transpired) rather than with licensed officers (the lawful course), the cause of collision was failing to navigate a safe passage. As to the pilot, his lack of licence did not bear on his general competence. The significant factor was the pilot's negligence at the time, and the pilot's lack of license made no difference there. Had the pilot been licensed, he would have been no less likely to sleep. The license would not have awoken him. The owners were, therefore, exonerated on grounds that whether or not the pilot held a license made no difference to the real cause, which was not the pilot's general level of competence, but rather his negligence at the time.\n\nSimilarly, in \"Christopher Andrews v Barnett Waddingham LLP and RAJ Waddingham\" (2006) EWCA Civ 93, the claimant transferred from a \"safe\" employer's pension scheme to a commercial scheme on the advice of a firm of financial advisers. The breach of duty alleged was confined to advice about the protection afforded by the Policyholders Protection Act 1975 to \"with-profits\" annuities, and this duty was found to be breached by the first instance judge. The claimant would not have chosen the Equitable Life with-profits annuity if he had been given correct advice, but that did not entitle him to recover the loss he had sustained as a result of his acquiring the annuity. The 1975 Act would have applied if Equitable Life had become insolvent. That was not the case. The real cause of the loss was that the terminal bonuses were not guaranteed and were adversely affected by the downturn in Equitable Life's fortunes. So the negligence as pleaded and as found by the judge did not relate to the fact that the terminal bonuses were not guaranteed.\n\nIn \"Pickford v Imperial Chemical Industries\" (1998) 1 WLR 1189 the Lords were asked to determine the cause of repetitive strain injury in a typist. Lord Steyn posed the question, \"That immediately raises the point that there must be an explanation for the fact that she contracted PDA4. What was the cause of her PDA4? There really was no alternative on the evidence to concluding that this condition was caused by Miss Pickford's typing work.\" But alternative explanations are that typing might aggravate an inherent condition or generally be an unsuitable occupation for someone with a predisposition to that condition, and neither proves the legal cause. In all cases, the burden of proof is on the claimant to prove the cause as pleaded. There is no burden on the defendant to prove an alternative explanation of the cause of any loss or damage, but a failure to do so may be a factor in deciding whether the claimant's explanation of the cause should be accepted. This test works well in straightforward situations, but it proves less successful in establishing causation in more complex situations where a number of actual or potential causes operate either consecutively or concurrently. For example, in \"Robinson v Post Office\" (1974) 1 WLR 1176 following an accident at work, the claimant had an anti-tetanus injection. Nine days later, there was an adverse reaction to the serum and brain damage resulted. No matter what tests the doctor might have performed, there would have been no sign of an adverse reaction within a reasonable time (see the Bolam Test). The doctor's reasonable decision to provide the standard treatment was therefore not the relevant cause of the brain damage because the claimant would not have been injected \"but for\" the defendant's negligence. Thus, in deciding between sequential contributions to the final result, the court must decide which is the more substantial contribution.\n\nWhether the acts of a third party break the chain of causation depends on whether the intervention was foreseeable. The general rule is that the original defendant will be held responsible for harm caused by a third party as a direct result of his or her negligence, provided it was a highly likely consequence. So, for example, where the defendant has control over the third party, or where the third party is faced with a dilemma created by the defendant, the chain of causation is unlikely to be broken and the defendant will normally be liable to the claimant for the damage caused: \"Home Office v. Dorset Yacht Co Ltd.\" [1970] AC 1004. The continuity of liability is not imposed merely because the original negligence makes damage by the third party foreseeable, but where the defendant’s negligence makes it very likely that the third party will cause damage to the claimant: \"Lamb v. Camden LBC\" [1981] QB 625. In practice, however, the requirement that the third party intervention will usually break the chain and, at the very least, the liability to pay compensation representing the totality of the loss or damage will be apportioned between the two or more tortfeasors. So, for example, if A injures V, it is foreseeable that an ambulance will be called, that paramedics will lift and carry V, and that there will be a journey back to the hospital. This cycle of intervention is continued in the hospital. None of this activity affecting V would arise \"but for\" the original negligence so A will remain liable unless and until either an unforeseeable B intervenes (e.g. negligently drives his car and collides with the ambulance), or a paramedic or member of the hospital staff is so seriously negligent that it becomes a new cause of action.\n\nIn loss of chance cases, the court is invited to assess hypothetical outcomes, either affecting the claimant or a third party where the defendant's negligence deprived the claimant of the opportunity to obtain a benefit or avoid a loss. Although it has been relatively unsuccessful in cases of medical negligence, it does provide a remedy in professional negligence generally.\n\nRecent medical negligence cases suggest tacit recognition of a more rights-based approach to damage.\n\nScience and law have different functions but share striking similarities. Both purport to provide rational, reasoned, independent, unbiased processes concerned with the objective assessment of evidence. There are also striking differences. Scientific assertions compared with determinations of legal causation have the following characteristics:\nThe major distinction between legal determinations and scientific assertions lies in the concept of certainty. The legal concept of causation is deterministic: it is an expression of the fiction of certainty, an absolute concept. The scientific concept of causation is probabilistic: it is an expression of the uncertainty of truth, an asymptotic concept.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2527630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2527630", "title": "Class diagram", "text": "Class diagram\n\nIn software engineering, a class diagram in the Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a type of static structure diagram that describes the structure of a system by showing the system's classes, their attributes, operations (or methods), and the relationships among objects.\nThe class diagram is the main building block of object-oriented modeling. It is used for general conceptual modeling of the systematic of the application, and for detailed modeling translating the models into programming code. Class diagrams can also be used for data modeling. The classes in a class diagram represent both the main elements, interactions in the application, and the classes to be programmed.\n\nIn the diagram, classes are represented with boxes that contain three compartments:\nIn the design of a system, a number of classes are identified and grouped together in a class diagram that helps to determine the static relations between them. With detailed modelling, the classes of the conceptual design are often split into a number of subclasses.\n\nIn order to further describe the behaviour of systems, these class diagrams can be complemented by a state diagram or UML state machine.\n\nUML provides mechanisms to represent class members, such as attributes and methods, and additional information about them.\n\nTo specify the visibility of a class member (i.e. any attribute or method), these notations must be placed before the member's name:\nThe UML specifies two types of scope for members: \"instance\" and \"classifier\", and the latter is represented by underlined names.\n\n\nTo indicate a classifier scope for a member, its name must be underlined. Otherwise, instance scope is assumed by default.\n\nA relationship is a general term covering the specific types of logical connections found on class and object diagrams. UML defines the following relationships:\n\nA \"dependency\" is a semantic connection between dependent and independent model elements. It exists between two elements if changes to the definition of one element (the server or target) may cause changes to the other (the client or source). This association is uni-directional.\n\nAn \"association\" represents a family of links. A binary association (with two ends) is normally represented as a line. An association can link any number of classes. An association with three links is called a ternary association. An association can be named, and the ends of an association can be adorned with role names, ownership indicators, multiplicity, visibility, and other properties. There are four different types of association: bi-directional, uni-directional, aggregation (includes composition aggregation) and reflexive. Bi-directional and uni-directional associations are the most common ones. For instance, a flight class is associated with a plane class bi-directionally. Association represents the static relationship shared among the objects of two classes.\n\n\"Aggregation\" is a variant of the \"has a\" association relationship; aggregation is more specific than association. It is an association that represents a part-whole or part-of relationship. As shown in the image, a Professor 'has a' class to teach. As a type of association, an aggregation can be named and have the same adornments that an association can. However, an aggregation may not involve more than two classes; it must be a binary association. Furthermore, there is hardly a difference between aggregations and associations during implementation, and the diagram may skip aggregation relations altogether. \n\"Aggregation\" can occur when a class is a collection or container of other classes, but the contained classes do not have a strong \"lifecycle dependency\" on the container. The contents of the container still exist when the container is destroyed.\n\nIn UML, it is graphically represented as a \"hollow\" diamond shape on the containing class with a single line that connects it to the contained class. The aggregate is semantically an extended object that is treated as a unit in many operations, although physically it is made of several lesser objects.\n\nExample: Library and Students. Here the student can exist without library, the relation between student and library is aggregation.\n\nThe UML representation of a composition relationship shows composition as a \"filled\" diamond shape on the containing class end of the lines that connect contained class(es) to the containing class.\n\n\n\nThus the aggregation relationship is often \"catalog\" containment to distinguish it from composition's \"physical\" containment.\n\nIt indicates that one of the two related classes (the \"subclass\") is considered to be a specialized form of the other (the \"super type\") and the superclass is considered a Generalization of the subclass. In practice, means that any instance of the subtype is also an instance of the superclass. An exemplary tree of generalizations of this form is found in biological classification: humans are a subclass of simian, which is a subclass of mammal, and so on. The relationship is most easily understood by the phrase 'an A is a B' (a human is a mammal, a mammal is an animal).\n\nThe UML graphical representation of a Generalization is a hollow triangle shape on the superclass end of the line (or tree of lines) that connects it to one or more subtypes.\n\nThe generalization relationship is also known as the \"inheritance\" or \"is a\" relationship.\n\nThe \"superclass\" (base class) in the generalization relationship is also known as the \"parent\", \"superclass\", \"base class\", or \"base type\".\n\nThe \"subtype\" in the specialization relationship is also known as the \"child\", \"subclass\", \"derived class\", \"derived type\", \"inheriting class\", or \"inheriting type\".\n\nNote that this relationship bears no resemblance to the biological parent–child relationship: the use of these terms is extremely common, but can be misleading.\n\nGeneralization can only be shown on class diagrams and on use case diagrams.\n\nIn UML modelling, a realization relationship is a relationship between two model elements, in which one model element (the client) realizes (implements or executes) the behavior that the other model element (the supplier) specifies.\n\nThe UML graphical representation of a Realization is a hollow triangle shape on the interface end of the \"dashed\" line (or tree of lines) that connects it to one or more implementers. A plain arrow head is used on the interface end of the dashed line that connects it to its users. In component diagrams, the ball-and-socket graphic convention is used (implementors expose a ball or lollipop, whereas users show a socket).\nRealizations can only be shown on class or component diagrams.\nA realization is a relationship between classes, interfaces, components and packages that connects a client element with a supplier element. A realization relationship between classes/components and interfaces shows that the class/component realizes the operations offered by the interface.\n\nDependency is a weaker form of bond that indicates that one class depends on another because it uses it at some point in time.\nOne class depends on another if the independent class is a parameter variable or local variable of a method of the dependent class. This is different from an association, where an attribute of the dependent class is an instance of the independent class. Sometimes the relationship between two classes is very weak. They are not implemented with\nmember variables at all. Rather they might be implemented as member function arguments.\n\nThis association relationship indicates that (at least) one of the two related classes make reference to the other. This relationship is usually described as \"A has a B\" (a mother cat has kittens, kittens have a mother cat).\n\nThe UML representation of an association is a line connecting the two associated classes. At each end of the line there is optional notation. For example, we can indicate, using an arrowhead that the pointy end is visible from the arrow tail. We can indicate ownership by the placement of a ball, the role the elements of that end play by supplying a name for the role, and the \"multiplicity\" of instances of that entity (the range of number of objects that participate in the association from the perspective of the other end).\n\nEntity classes model long-lived information handled by the system, and sometimes the behavior associated with the information. They should not be identified as database tables or other data-stores.\n\nThey are drawn as circles with a short line attached to the bottom of the circle. Alternatively, they can be drawn as normal classes with the «entity» stereotype notation above the class name.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13606485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13606485", "title": "Daniela Bertol", "text": "Daniela Bertol\n\nDaniela Bertol is an architect, designer and artist, working at the intersection between art and science. Her projects, based on a unified approach to knowledge, encompass several disciplines and media including astronomy, land art, geoglyphs, architecture, design, digital models, photography and video. \nDaniela Bertol was born and grew up in Rome, where she earned a master's degree in Architecture; in 1985 she moved to the United States. Bertol's early projects explored geometric space and virtual environments using digital model, where geometric forms evolved in organic components, similar to shapes found in nature. Bertol founded \"space ink\" in 1989 as a multidisciplinary laboratory embracing experimentally built and published projects as well as theoretical works focusing on the transformation of architecture and its integration with digital space. The vision that technological advancements should establish continuity with the past—instead of creating a fracture—has been expressed in architectural and educational projects, art installations, artwork, furniture and graphic design.\nBertol's most recent project ---and work in progress--- is \"Sky Spirals\", a series of places devoted to sustainable design: the shaping of the landscape based on interesecting spirals follow solar and celestial alignments . Sky Spirals began as a conceptual work based on digital models, maps and aerial photos. As the work developed, the virtual model and diagrams were translated to a real physical site in Claverack, New York (USA). They became \"Sun Farm\", the first site of the \"Sky Spirals\" concepts. The interest in sustainable architecture has inspired solar based design, such as the house at \"Sun Farm\": contemporary architectural vocabulary and materials re-propose design intention from early civilizations.\n\nBertol's design vision integrates principles of eastern philosophies and practices with contemporary architectural theories and research. \n\nA lifelong yoga practitioner (and certified yoga teacher) she integrates spiritual practices in her artist and design work: several land art sculptures provide the path of walking meditations and yoga poses are included in the perception of architectural spaces.\n\nDaniela Bertol is married with two daughters and lives in New York and Rome.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50041197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50041197", "title": "Effective Altruism Global", "text": "Effective Altruism Global\n\nEffective Altruism Global, abbreviated EA Global, is a series of philanthropy conferences that focuses on the effective altruism movement. The conferences are run by the Centre for Effective Altruism at Oxford University. Huffington Post editor Nico Pitney described the events as a gathering of \"nerd altruists\", which was \"heavy on people from technology, science, and analytical disciplines\".\n\nAn original Effective Altruism Summit was hosted in 2013.\n\nIn 2015, there were three main EA Global events. The largest was a three-day conference that took place on the Google campus in Mountain View, California with speakers including entrepreneur Elon Musk, computer scientist Stuart J. Russell, and Oxford philosophy professor William MacAskill. There were also conferences in Oxford, UK and Melbourne, Australia. According to MacAskill, the nature of the conferences improved coordination and ideological diversity within effective altruism. Talks included subjects such as \"global poverty, animal advocacy, cause prioritization research, and policy change\". There were also workshops on choosing careers, Q&A sessions, and panels on running local EA chapters.\n\nAt the Google conference, a moderated panel featured Elon Musk with AI researchers on the topic of existential risk from artificial general intelligence. Panel member Stuart Russell stated that AI research should be about \"building intelligent systems that benefit the human race\". Vox writer Dylan Matthews criticized the event for its perceived focus on existential risk, potentially at the expense of more mainstream causes like fighting extreme poverty.\n\nEA Global 2016 was held on the UC Berkeley campus in August. EA Global 2017 was held at The Palace of Fine Arts Exhibition Center, and EA Global 2018 was held at Bespoke Events.\n\n"}
{"id": "579322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=579322", "title": "FCC fairness doctrine", "text": "FCC fairness doctrine\n\nThe fairness doctrine of the United States Federal Communications Commission (FCC), introduced in 1949, was a policy that required the holders of broadcast licenses both to present controversial issues of public importance and to do so in a manner that was—in the FCC's view—honest, equitable, and balanced. The FCC eliminated the policy in 1987 and removed the rule that implemented the policy from the \"Federal Register\" in August 2011.\n\nThe fairness doctrine had two basic elements: It required broadcasters to devote some of their airtime to discussing controversial matters of public interest, and to air contrasting views regarding those matters. Stations were given wide latitude as to how to provide contrasting views: It could be done through news segments, public affairs shows, or editorials. The doctrine did not require equal time for opposing views but required that contrasting viewpoints be presented. The demise of this FCC rule has been considered by some to be a contributing factor for the rising level of party polarization in the United States.\n\nThe main agenda for the doctrine was to ensure that viewers were exposed to a diversity of viewpoints. In 1969 the United States Supreme Court upheld the FCC's general \"right\" to enforce the fairness doctrine where channels were limited. But the courts did not rule that the FCC was \"obliged\" to do so. The courts reasoned that the scarcity of the broadcast spectrum, which limited the opportunity for access to the airwaves, created a need for the doctrine.\n\nThe fairness doctrine is not the same as the equal-time rule. The fairness doctrine deals with discussion of controversial issues, while the equal-time rule deals only with political candidates.\n\nIn 1938, a former Yankee Network employee named Lawrence J. Flynn challenged the license of John Shepard III's WAAB in Boston, and also lodged a complaint about WNAC. Flynn asserted that these stations were being used to air one-sided political viewpoints and broadcast attacks (including editorials) against local [and federal] politicians that Shepard opposed. The FCC requested that Shepard provide details about these programs, and to appease the commission, the Yankee Network agreed to drop the editorials. But Flynn created a company called Mayflower Broadcasting and tried to get the FCC to award him WAAB's license; however, the FCC refused. Instead, in 1941, the commission made a ruling that came to be known as the Mayflower Decision which declared that radio stations, due to their public interest obligations, must remain neutral in matters of news and politics, and they were not allowed to give editorial support to any particular political position or candidate.\n\nIn 1949, the FCC’s Editorializing Report repealed the Mayflower Doctrine, which had forbidden editorializing on the radio since 1941, and laid the foundation for the Fairness Doctrine by reaffirming the FCC's holding that licensees must not use their stations “for the private interest, whims or caprices [of licensees], but in a manner which will serve the community generally.” The FCC Report established two forms of regulation on broadcasters: to provide adequate coverage of public issues, and to ensure that coverage fairly represented opposing views. The second rule required broadcasters to provide reply time to issue-oriented citizens. Broadcasters could therefore trigger Fairness Doctrine complaints without editorializing. The commission required neither of the Fairness Doctrine's obligations before 1949. Until then broadcasters had to satisfy only general “public interest” standards of the Communications Act.\n\nThe doctrine remained a matter of general policy and was applied on a case-by-case basis until 1967, when certain provisions of the doctrine were incorporated into FCC regulations.\n\nIn a 1969 textbook case, the United States courts of appeals, in an opinion written by Warren Burger, directed the FCC to revoke Lamar Broadcasting's licence for television station WLBT due to the station's segregationist politics and ongoing censorship of NBC network news coverage of the US civil rights movement.\n\nIn 1974, the Federal Communications Commission stated that the Congress had delegated it the power to mandate a system of “access, either free or paid, for person or groups wishing to express a viewpoint on a controversial public issue...” but that it had not yet exercised that power because licensed broadcasters had “voluntarily” complied with the “spirit” of the doctrine. It warned that: \n\nIn one landmark case, the FCC argued that teletext was a new technology that created soaring demand for a limited resource, and thus could be exempt from the fairness doctrine. The Telecommunications Research and Action Center (TRAC) and Media Access Project (MAP) argued that teletext transmissions should be regulated like any other airwave technology, hence the Fairness Doctrine was applicable (and must be enforced by the FCC). In 1986, Judges Robert Bork and Antonin Scalia of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit concluded that the Fairness Doctrine did apply to teletext but that the FCC was not required to apply it.  In a 1987 case, \"Meredith Corp. v. FCC\", two other judges on the same court declared that Congress did not mandate the doctrine and the FCC did not have to continue to enforce it.\n\nIn \"Red Lion Broadcasting Co. v. FCC\", , the U.S. Supreme Court upheld (by a vote of 8-0) the constitutionality of the fairness doctrine in a case of an on-air personal attack, in response to challenges that the doctrine violated the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. The case began when journalist Fred J. Cook, after the publication of his \"Goldwater: Extremist of the Right\", was the topic of discussion by Billy James Hargis on his daily Christian Crusade radio broadcast on WGCB in Red Lion, Pennsylvania. Mr. Cook sued arguing that the fairness doctrine entitled him to free air time to respond to the personal attacks.\n\nAlthough similar laws are unconstitutional when applied to the press, the Court cited a Senate report (S. Rep. No. 562, 86th Cong., 1st Sess., 8-9 [1959]) stating that radio stations could be regulated in this way because of the limited public airwaves at the time. Writing for the Court, Justice Byron White declared:\nThe Court warned that if the doctrine ever restrained speech, then its constitutionality should be reconsidered.\n\nHowever, in the case of \"Miami Herald Publishing Co. v. Tornillo\", , Chief Justice Warren Burger wrote (for a unanimous court):\nThis decision differs from \"Red Lion\" v. \"FCC\" in that it applies to a newspaper, which, unlike a broadcaster, is unlicensed and can theoretically face an unlimited number of competitors.\n\nIn 1984, the Supreme Court ruled that Congress could not forbid editorials by non-profit stations that received grants from the Corporation for Public Broadcasting (\"FCC v. League of Women Voters of California\", ). The Court's 5-4 majority decision by William J. Brennan, Jr. stated that while many now considered that expanding sources of communication had made the fairness doctrine's limits unnecessary: \nAfter noting that the FCC was considering repealing the fairness doctrine rules on editorials and personal attacks out of fear that those rules might be \"chilling speech\", the Court added: \n\nIn 1985, under FCC Chairman Mark S. Fowler, a communications attorney who had served on Ronald Reagan's presidential campaign staff in 1976 and 1980, the FCC released its report on \"General Fairness Doctrine Obligations\" stating that the doctrine hurt the public interest and violated free speech rights guaranteed by the First Amendment. The Commission could not, however, come to a determination as to whether the doctrine had been enacted by Congress through its 1959 Amendment to Section 315 of the Communications Act. \n\nIn response to the 1986 \"Telecommunications Research & Action Center v. F.C.C.\" decision, the 99th Congress directed the FCC to examine alternatives to the Fairness Doctrine and to submit a report to Congress on the subject. In 1987, in \"Meredith Corporation v. F.C.C.\" the case was returned to the FCC with a directive to consider whether the doctrine had been “self-generated pursuant to its general congressional authorization or specifically mandated by Congress.” \n\nThe FCC opened an inquiry inviting public comment on alternative means for administrating and enforcing the Fairness Doctrine. Then, in its 1987 report, the alternatives—including abandoning a case-by-case enforcement approach, replacing the doctrine with open access time for all members of the public, doing away with the personal attack rule, and eliminating certain other aspects of the doctrine—were rejected by the FCC for various reasons. \n\nOn 5 August 1987, under FCC Chairman Dennis R. Patrick, the FCC abolished the doctrine by a 4-0 vote, in the \"Syracuse Peace Council\" decision, which was upheld by a panel of the Appeals Court for the D.C. Circuit in February 1989, though the Court stated in their decision that they made \"that determination without reaching the constitutional issue.\" The FCC suggested in \"Syracuse Peace Council\" that because of the many media voices in the marketplace, the doctrine be deemed unconstitutional, stating that: \n\nAt the 4-0 vote, Chairman Patrick said:\n\nSitting commissioners at the time of the vote were:\n\nDennis R. Patrick, Chairman, Republican(Named an FCC commissioner by Ronald Reagan in 1983)\n\nMimi Weyforth Dawson, Republican(Named an FCC commissioner by Ronald Reagan in 1986)\n\nPatricia Diaz Dennis, Democrat(Named an FCC commissioner by Ronald Reagan in 1986)\n\nJames H. Quello, Democrat (Named an FCC commissioner by Richard M. Nixon in 1974)\n\nThe FCC vote was opposed by members of Congress who said the FCC had tried to \"flout the will of Congress\" and the decision was \"wrongheaded, misguided and illogical.\". The decision drew political fire and tangling, where cooperation with Congress was at issue. In June 1987, Congress attempted to preempt the FCC decision and codify the Fairness Doctrine, but the legislation was vetoed by President Ronald Reagan. Another attempt to revive the doctrine in 1991 was stopped when President George H.W. Bush threatened another veto.\n\nFowler said in February 2009 that his work toward revoking the Fairness Doctrine under the Reagan Administration had been a matter of principle (his belief that the Doctrine impinged upon the First Amendment), not partisanship. Fowler described the White House staff raising concerns, at a time before the prominence of conservative talk radio and during the preeminence of the Big Three television networks and PBS in political discourse, that repealing the policy would be politically unwise. He described the staff's position as saying to Reagan: \n\nTwo corollary rules of the doctrine, the personal attack rule and the \"political editorial\" rule, remained in practice until 2000. The \"personal attack\" rule applied whenever a person (or small group) was subject to a personal attack during a broadcast. Stations had to notify such persons (or groups) within a week of the attack, send them transcripts of what was said and offer the opportunity to respond on-the-air. The \"political editorial\" rule applied when a station broadcast editorials endorsing or opposing candidates for public office, and stipulated that the unendorsed candidates be notified and allowed a reasonable opportunity to respond.\n\nThe U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit ordered the FCC to justify these corollary rules in light of the decision to repeal the Fairness Doctrine. The FCC did not provide prompt justification so both corollary rules were repealed in October 2000.\n\nIn February 2005, U.S. Representative Louise Slaughter (D-NY) and 23 co-sponsors introduced the Fairness and Accountability in Broadcasting Act (H.R. 501) in the 1st Session of the 109th Congress of 2005-7 (when Republicans held a majority of both Houses). The bill would have shortened a station's license term from eight years to four, with the requirement that a license-holder cover important issues fairly, hold local public hearings about its coverage twice a year, and document to the FCC how it was meeting its obligations. The bill was referred to committee, but progressed no further.\n\nIn the same Congress, Representative Maurice Hinchey (D-NY) introduced legislation \"to restore the Fairness Doctrine\". H.R. 3302, also known as the \"Media Ownership Reform Act of 2005\" or MORA, had 16 co-sponsors in Congress.\n\nIn June 2007, Senator Richard Durbin (D-IL) said, \"It's time to reinstitute the Fairness Doctrine,\" an opinion shared by his Democratic colleague, Senator John Kerry (D-MA). However, according to Marin Cogan of \"The New Republic\" in late 2008: \nOn June 24, 2008, U.S. Representative Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), the Speaker of the House at the time, told reporters that her fellow Democratic Representatives did not want to forbid reintroduction of the Fairness Doctrine, adding \"the interest in my caucus is the reverse.\" When asked by John Gizzi of \"Human Events\", \"Do you personally support revival of the 'Fairness Doctrine?'\", the Speaker replied \"Yes.\"\nOn October 22, 2008, Senator Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) told a conservative talk radio host in Albuquerque, New Mexico: \nOn December 15, 2008, U.S. Representative Anna Eshoo (D-CA) told The Daily Post in Palo Alto, California that she thought it should also apply to cable and satellite broadcasters. \nOn February 11, 2009, Senator Tom Harkin (D-Iowa) told Press, \"...we gotta get the Fairness Doctrine back in law again.\" Later in response to Press's assertion that \"...they are just shutting down progressive talk from one city after another,\" Senator Harkin responded, \"Exactly, and that's why we need the fairthat's why we need the Fairness Doctrine back.\"\nFormer President Bill Clinton has also shown support for the Fairness Doctrine. During a February 13, 2009, appearance on the Mario Solis Marich radio show, Clinton said: \nClinton cited the \"blatant drumbeat\" against the stimulus program from conservative talk radio, suggesting that it doesn't reflect economic reality.\n\nThe Fairness Doctrine has been strongly opposed by prominent conservatives and libertarians who view it as an attack on First Amendment rights and property rights. Editorials in \"The Wall Street Journal\" and \"The Washington Times\" in 2005 and 2008 said that Democratic attempts to bring back the Fairness Doctrine have been made largely in response to conservative talk radio.\n\nIn 1987, Edward O. Fritts, president of the National Association of Broadcasters, in applauding President Reagan's veto of a bill intended to turn the doctrine into law, said that the doctrine is an infringement on free speech and intrudes on broadcasters' journalistic judgment.\n\nIn 2007, Senator Norm Coleman (R-MN) proposed an amendment to a defense appropriations bill that forbade the FCC from \"using any funds to adopt a fairness rule.\" It was blocked, in part on grounds that \"the amendment belonged in the Commerce Committee's jurisdiction\".\n\nIn the same year, the Broadcaster Freedom Act of 2007 was proposed in the Senate by Senators Coleman with 35 co-sponsors (S.1748) and John Thune (R-SD) with 8 co-sponsors (S.1742) and in the House by Republican Representative Mike Pence (R-IN) with 208 co-sponsors (H.R. 2905). It provided that: \nNeither of these measures came to the floor of either house.\n\nOn August 12, 2008, FCC Commissioner Robert M. McDowell stated that the reinstitution of the Fairness Doctrine could be intertwined with the debate over network neutrality (a proposal to classify network operators as common carriers required to admit all Internet services, applications and devices on equal terms), presenting a potential danger that net neutrality and Fairness Doctrine advocates could try to expand content controls to the Internet. It could also include \"government dictating content policy\". The conservative Media Research Center's Culture & Media Institute argued that the three main points supporting the Fairness Doctrine — media scarcity, liberal viewpoints being censored at a corporate level, and public interest — are all myths.\n\nIn June 2008, Barack Obama's press secretary wrote that Obama (then a Democratic U.S. Senator from Illinois and candidate for President): \n\nOn February 16, 2009, Mark Fowler said: \n\nIn February 2009, a White House spokesperson said that President Obama continued to oppose the revival of the Doctrine.\n\nIn the 111th Congress (January 2009 to January 2011), the Broadcaster Freedom Act of 2009 (S.34, S.62, H.R.226) was introduced to block reinstatement of the Doctrine. On February 26, 2009, by a vote of 87-11, the Senate added that act as an amendment to the District of Columbia House Voting Rights Act of 2009 (S.160), [a bill which later passed the Senate 61-37, but not the House of Representatives]. The Associated Press reported that the vote on the Fairness Doctrine rider was: \nThe AP report went on to say that President Obama had no intention of reimposing the doctrine, but Republicans (led by Sen. Jim DeMint, R-SC) wanted more in the way of a guarantee that the doctrine would not be reimposed.\n\nMedia reform organizations such as Free Press feel that a return to the Fairness Doctrine is not as important as setting stronger station ownership caps and stronger \"public interest\" standards enforcement (with funding from fines given to public broadcasting).\n\nUnder the Fair Packaging and Labeling Act, the FTC requires that all 'consumer commodities' bear a label with an accurate 'statement identifying the commodity'. If revenue-generating commercial broadcasts (whether by radio, tv, or internet) are a 'consumer commodity', then they must be accurately labeled. That would seem to preclude 'News' that is not genuine, 'Opinion' that is not the author's actual opinion, or 'Analysis' that is not at least arguably analytical. Note that in general the FTC only has authority over commercial aspects (pertaining to revenue) rather than speech.\n\nIn an August 13, 2008 telephone poll released by Rasmussen Reports, 47% of 1,000 likely voters supported a government requirement that broadcasters offer equal amounts of liberal and conservative commentary, while 39% opposed such a requirement. In the same poll, 57% opposed and 31% favored requiring Internet websites and bloggers that offer political commentary to present opposing points of view. By a margin of 71%-20% the respondents agreed that it is \"possible for just about any political view to be heard in today’s media\" (including the Internet, newspapers, cable TV and satellite radio), but only half the sample said they had followed recent news stories about the Fairness Doctrine closely. (The margin of error was 3%, with a 95% confidence interval.)\n\nIn June 2011, the Chairman and a subcommittee chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, both Republicans, said that the FCC, in response to their requests, had set a target date of August 2011 for removing the Fairness Doctrine and other \"outdated\" regulations from the FCC's rulebook.\n\nOn August 22, 2011, the FCC voted to remove the rule that implemented the Fairness Doctrine, along with more than 80 other rules and regulations, from the \"Federal Register\" following an executive order by President Obama directing a \"government-wide review of regulations already on the books\" to eliminate unnecessary regulations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12865068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12865068", "title": "Familiarity heuristic", "text": "Familiarity heuristic\n\nIn psychology, a heuristic is an easy-to-compute procedure or \"rule of thumb\" that people use when forming beliefs, judgments or decisions. The familiarity heuristic was developed based on the discovery of the availability heuristic by psychologists Amos Tversky and Daniel Kahneman; it happens when the familiar is favored over novel places, people, or things. The familiarity heuristic can be applied to various situations that individuals experience in day-to-day life. When these situations appear similar to previous situations, especially if the individuals are experiencing a high cognitive load, they may regress to the state of mind in which they have felt or behaved before. This heuristic is useful in most situations and can be applied to many fields of knowledge; however, there are both positives and negatives to this heuristic as well.\n\nThe familiarity heuristic stems from the availability heuristic, which was studied by Tversky and Kahneman. The availability heuristic suggests that the likelihood of events is estimated based on how many examples of such events come to mind. Thus the familiarity heuristic shows how \"bias of availability is related to the ease of recall.\"\n\nTversky and Kahneman created an experiment in order to test this heuristic. They devised four lists of 39 names. Each list contained 19 female names and 20 male names. Half of the lists had famous female names, and the other half had famous male names. They showed the lists to two test groups. The first group was shown a list and asked to recall as many names as possible. The second group was shown a list and asked to determine if there were more female or more male names. The subjects who heard the list with famous female names said there were more female names than there were male names. Similarly, the subjects who heard the list with famous male names recalled more male names than female names. Thus the familiarity heuristic is defined as \"judging events as more frequent or important because they are more familiar in memory.\"\n\nThe familiarity heuristic is based on using schemas or past actions as a scaffold for behavior in a new (yet familiar) situation. This is useful because it saves time for the subject who is trying to figure out the appropriate behavior for a situation they have experienced before. Individuals automatically assume that their previous behavior will yield the same results when a similar situation arises. This technique is typically useful. However, certain behaviors can be inappropriate when the situation is different from the time before.\n\nThe hindsight bias is the inclination to see events that have already occurred as being more predictable than they were before they took place. For example, after a situation occurs for the first time, you begin to notice it when it reoccurs and therefore because you have now experienced it, it's more readily available in your consciousness and you pull information and predict aspects of the future because of this and think that you \"knew it all along.\" \"Hindsight bias results from a biased reconstruction of the original memory trace, using the outcome as a cue\" Hindsight bias can alter memories and therefore future predictions.\n\nRecent studies have used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to demonstrate that people use different areas of the brain when reasoning about familiar and unfamiliar situations. This holds true over different kinds of reasoning problems. Familiar situations are processed in a system involving the frontal and temporal lobes whereas unfamiliar situations are processed in the frontal and parietal lobes. These two similar but dissociated processes provide a biological explanation for the differences between heuristic reasoning and formal logic.\n\nCorneille, Monin & Pleyers (2004) showed that familiarity of human faces is based on attractiveness. In this study the researchers showed their subjects pictures of faces. The subjects were asked to rate how familiar the face was or was not using visual cues. The visual cues were choosing a picture of a butterfly (attractive) when the subject thought the face was familiar, and choosing a picture of a rat (unattractive) when the subject did not find the face familiar. The result of this study was that the subjects were more familiar when the face was attractive regardless of prior exposure to the picture (or person) itself. This has been referred to as the warm glow effect (Monin 2003). The warm glow effect states that positive stimuli seem more familiar because of the positive emotions they evoke in us.\n\nThe familiarity heuristic increases the likelihood that customers will repeatedly buy products of the same brand. This concept is known as brand familiarity in consumer behavior. Due to the familiarity heuristic, the customers have the rule of thumb that their past behavior of buying this specific brand's product was most likely correct and should be repeated. A study examining the choice of various models of microwave ovens based on the subjects' familiarity with them showed that high familiarity with the features of microwave ovens allowed for a faster and more confident choice.\n\nThis effect can also have important implications for medical decision making. Lay people tend to make health decisions that are based on familiarity and availability as opposed to factual knowledge about diseases. This means that they are more likely to take actions and pursue treatment options that have worked in the past, whether they are effective in the current situation or not. This also extends to treatments the patient has not used before but is familiar with. For example, a lay person may request a name-brand medication because they have heard of it before, even though a generic drug may be essentially the same but less expensive. Medical professionals are much more likely to use scientific facts to prescribe treatments.\n\nThere is some criticism of the concept of familiarity heuristic. It mainly focuses on the point that past behavior does influence present behavior but that this inherits from other, and differing contrivances. One study examining multiple possible mechanisms of how previous behavior influences the present found little support for the familiarity heuristic and tends to conclude instead that the influence of past behavior on a present one decreased when subjects were distracted. However, in order for a heuristic to be valid, its effect should be more prevalent when individuals are distracted and their cognitive capacity is highly strained. This result indicates that it is unlikely that a familiarity heuristic was applied during the experiment.\n\nAnother limit of familiarity heuristic according to a study by Ouellette & Wood (1998) is that it might not always be applicable. This study showed that the familiarity heuristic might only occur in situations where the target behavior is habitual and occurs in a stable context within the situation. Thus, the familiarity heuristic could be limited to habits and behaviors in routine situations.\n"}
{"id": "169269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=169269", "title": "Family tree", "text": "Family tree\n\nGenealogical data can be represented in several formats, for example as a pedigree or . Family trees are often presented with the oldest generations at the top and the newer generations at the bottom. An ancestry chart, which is a tree showing the ancestors of an individual, will more closely resemble a tree in shape, being wider at the top than the bottom. In some ancestry charts, an individual appears on the left and his or her ancestors appear to the right. A descendancy chart, which depicts all the descendants of an individual will be narrowest at the top.\n\nFamily trees can have many themes. One might encompass all direct descendants of a single figure, or all known ancestors of a living person. Another might include all members of a particular surname (e.g. male-line descendants). Yet another approach is to construct a tree including all holders of a certain office, such as kings of Germany. This relies on dynastic marriage to hold together the links between dynasties.\n\nThe image of the tree probably originated with one in medieval art of the Tree of Jesse, used to illustrate the Genealogy of Christ in terms of a prophecy of Isaiah (Isaiah 11:1). Possibly the first non-Biblical use, and the first to show full family relationships rather than a purely patrilineal scheme, was that involving family trees of the classical gods in Boccaccio's \"Genealogia deorum gentilium\" (\"On the Genealogy of the Gods of the Gentiles\"), whose first version dates to 1360.\n\nOne technique is a \"fan chart\", which features a half circle chart with concentric rings: the person of interest is the inner circle, the second circle is divided in two (each side is one parent), the third circle is divided in four, and so forth. Fan charts depict paternal and maternal ancestors.\n\nWhile family trees are depicted as trees, family relations do not in general form a tree in the sense of graph theory, since distant relatives can mate, so a person can have a common ancestor on their mother's and father's side. However, because a parent must be born before their child is born, a person cannot be their own ancestor, and thus there are no loops, so ancestry forms a directed acyclic graph.\n\nThe graphs of matrilineal descent (\"mother\" relationships between women) and patrilineal descent (\"father\" relationships between men) are trees however.\n\nAssuming no common ancestor, an ancestry chart is a perfect binary tree, as each person has exactly one mother and one father, for two parents; these thus have a regular structure. A descendancy chart, on the other hand, does not in general have a regular structure, as a person can have any number of children, or none at all.\n\nThe longest family tree in the world is that of the Chinese philosopher and educator Confucius (551–479 BC), and he is the descendant of King Tang (1675–1646 BC). The tree spans more than 80 generations from him, and includes more than 2 million members. An international effort involving more than 450 branches around the world was started in 1998 to retrace and revise this family tree. A new edition of the Confucius genealogy was printed in September 2009 by the Confucius Genealogy Compilation Committee, to coincide with the 2560th anniversary of the birth of the Chinese thinker. This latest edition is expected to include some 1.3 million living members who are scattered around the world today.\n\nThere are extensive genealogies for the ruling dynasties of China, but these do not form a single, unified family tree; and it is unclear at which point(s) the most ancient historical figures named become mythological.\n\nIn Japan, the ancestry of the Imperial Family is traced back to the mythological origins of Japan. The connection to persons from the established historical record begins in the mid-first millennium AD.\n\nAnother very old and extensive tree is that of the Lurie lineage—which includes Sigmund Freud and Martin Buber—and traces back to Jehiel Lurie, a 13th-century rabbi in Brest-Litovsk, and from there to Rashi and purportedly back to the legendary King David, as documented by Neil Rosenstein in his book \"The Lurie Legacy\". The 1999 edition of the \"Guinness Book of Records\" recorded the Lurie family in the \"longest lineage\" category as oldest-known living family in the world today.\n\nThe Biblical genealogies of Jesus also claim descent from the House of David; covering a period of approximately 1000 years. \n\nIn the Torah and Old Testament, genealogies are provided for many biblical persons, including a record of the descendants of Adam. \n\nAccording to the Torah, the Kohanim are decended from Aaron. Genetic testing performed at the Technion has shown that modern Kohanim share common Y-chromosome origins, although there is no complete family tree of the Kohanim.\n\nIn the Islamic world, claimed descent from the prophet Mohammed greatly enhanced the status of political and religious leaders. New dynasties often used claims of such descent to help establish their legitimacy. \n\nIn Europe, the pedigree of Niall Noígíallach would be a contender for the longest, through Conn of the Hundred Battles (fl. 123 AD); in the legendary history of Ireland he is further descended from Breogán, and ultimately from Adam, through the sons of Noah. Many noble and aristocratic families of European and West-Asian origin can reliably trace their ancestry back as far as the mid to late first millennium AD; some claiming undocumented descent from Classical Antiquity or mythological ancestors.\n\nBefore the Dark Ages, in the Greco-Roman world, some reliable pedigrees dated back perhaps at least as far as the first half of the first millennium BC; with claimed or mythological origins reaching back further. Roman clan and family lineages played an important part in the structure of their society, and were the basis of their intricate system of personal names. However, there was a break in the continuity of records-keeping at the end of Classical Antiquity. Records of the lines of succession of the Popes and the Eastern Roman Emperors through this transitional period have survived, but these are not continuous genealogical histories of single families.\n\nIn Africa, the ruling dynasty of Ethiopia claimed descent from King Solomon via the Queen of Sheba.\n\nThe genealogy of Ancient Egyptian ruling dynasties was recorded from the beginnings of the Pharaonic era circa 3000 BC, to the end of the Ptolomaic Kingdom; although this is not a record of one continuously-linked family lineage, and surviving records are incomplete.\n\nIn some pre-contact Native American civilizations, genealogical records of ruling and priestly families were kept, some of which extended over at least several centuries. \n\nIn many human cultures clan and tribal associations are based on claims of common ancestry; although detailed documentation of those origins is often very limited.\n\nThe author Pete Frame is notable for having produced \"family trees\" of rock bands. In this instance, the entries represent membership of certain groups, and personnel changes within them, rather than family relationships. Several books have been produced with his family trees, which in turn have led to a BBC television series about them, including interviews from the bands depicted in the trees.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50948826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50948826", "title": "GingerMaster", "text": "GingerMaster\n\nGingerMaster is malware that affects Android operating system version 2.3. It was first detected in August 2011.\n\nGingerMaster is Android malware that contains a root exploit packaged within an infected app.\n\nOnce the application is launched on an Android device, it acquires root privileges on the device and then accesses sensitive data.\n\nGingerMaster steals data such as:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54634949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54634949", "title": "Gravi de pugna", "text": "Gravi de pugna\n\nGravi de pugna is a forged letter written in the name of Augustine of Hippo which asserts that the morally superior side is always superior in battle and therefore that wars are proven to be just wars by their military success. The letter was widely accepted as authentic, and reassured soldiers that God was on their side.\n\n\"Gravi de pugna\" is best known for its simple assertion that God will assure that the morally superior side will win military battles, and conversely, that victory itself validates that the use of force was appropriate. Udo Heyn claims this was a Germanic notion, and Phillip Wynn reports that it had long been believed in pagan antiquity by the time of this letter. This understanding was, in fact, utterly rejected by Augustine. Kelly DeVries regards the theology of \"Gravi de pugna\" as shallow and considers it to raise problems of theodicy and legitimacy as soon as the first Christian army loses.\n\nGravi also urges prayer for victory before battle, which was also rejected by Augustine, who found such prayers inappropriate.\n\n\"Gravi de pugna\" was written in the fifth century.\nThe letter was widely accepted as authentic from its introduction through the medieval era, and was the most frequently cited text in this period on holy war. It was invoked to justify numerous wars, including by Hincmar of Reims, Rabanus Maurus, Sedulius Scottus, Ivo of Chartres, and Bernard of Clairvaux It was also recited at the Siege of Lisbon in .\n\"Gravi\" imbued the Crusaders with confidence that God was on their side, squelching all moral concerns and leading to behavior that did not comply with then-accepted rules of war.\n\nThe work lost influence with the renaissance of the 12th century, which developed more sophisticated jurisprudence and moral reasoning, At the same time, Augustine's own opinions, which had been largely unknown, were studied by the decretists and through them, Aquinas as well. The authenticity of \"Gravi de Pugna\" was not conclusively rejected until Erasmus.\nAlthough it is regarded by contemporary scholars as \"obviously un-Augustinian\",\nit is now widely recognized that \"Gravi de pugna\" has inaccurately influenced scholars of Augustine's views on war even up through modern times.\n\n"}
{"id": "1239484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1239484", "title": "Grievous bodily harm", "text": "Grievous bodily harm\n\nGrievous bodily harm (often abbreviated to GBH) is a term used in English criminal law to describe the severest forms of assault. It refers to two offences that are respectively created by sections 18 and 20 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861. The distinction between these two sections is the requirement of specific intent for section 18; the offence under section 18 is variously referred to as \"wounding with intent\" or \"causing grievous bodily harm with intent\", whereas the offence under section 20 is variously referred to as \"unlawful wounding\", \"malicious wounding\" or \"inflicting grievous bodily harm\".\n\nThis section now reads:\n\nThe words from \"or shoot\" to \"some other\", except the words \"with intent to do some\" were repealed by section 10(2) of, and Part III of Schedule 3 to, the Criminal Law Act 1967.\n\nThe words omitted in the penultimate place were repealed by the Statute Law Revision (No. 2) Act 1893.\n\nThe words omitted at the end were repealed by the Statute Law Revision Act 1892 and the Statute Law Revision (No. 2) Act 1893.\n\nThis section replaces section 4 of the Offences against the Person Act 1837, which in turn replaced section 12 of the Offences against the Person Act 1828, which in turn replaced section 1 of Lord Ellenborough's Act (1803).\n\nSee the Criminal Law Act 1967 and the Criminal Law Act (Northern Ireland) 1967.\n\nSee the Criminal Justice Act 1948 and the Criminal Justice Act (Northern Ireland) 1953.\n\nIn England and Wales, section 20 now reads:\n\nThe words omitted were repealed by the Statute Law Revision Act 1892.\n\nSee the Criminal Law Act 1967.\n\nSee the Penal Servitude Act 1891 and the Criminal Justice Act 1948.\n\nNone of the words used in these sections are defined elsewhere in the Act, but they have been defined by case law.\n\nFor this purpose, a wound is an injury that breaks the continuity of the skin. There must be a division of the whole skin and not merely a division of the cuticle or upper layer.\n\nA single drop of blood is sufficient, but it must fall outside the body: see \"JJC (a minor) v. Eisenhower\" (1984) 78 Cr App R 48. In this case, a pellet gun was fired at the victim. The bullet ruptured blood vessels above his eye, causing his eye to fill with fluid. Lord Justice Robert Goff said the rupturing of blood vessels is an internal wound; only the breaking of whole skin would warrant a wounding charge.\n\nA bruise or internal rupturing of blood vessels is not a wound, and neither is a broken bone.\n\nWounding does not imply the use of a weapon; a kick may be wounding.\n\nGrievous bodily harm means \"really serious bodily harm\": \"DPP v Smith\" [1961] AC 290, HL; \"R v Cunningham\" [1982] AC 566, HL; \"R v Brown (A)\" [1994] 1 AC 212, HL; \"R v Brown and Stratton\" [1998] Crim LR 485, CA. It encompasses a range of injuries: \"R v Woodland\" (2007) 48 MVR 360.\n\nHowever, \"R v Saunders\" [1985] Crim LR 230, [1985] LS Gaz R 1005, allows \"serious injury\" as a sufficient direction to the jury. It is for the judge to decide whether the word \"really\" needs to be used in their direction to the jury: \"R v Janjua and Choudhury\" [1999] 1 Cr App R 91, The Times, 8 May 1998, CA (in this case, as a knife with a blade at least 5½ inches long had been used, it was not possible that something less than really serious harm was intended).\n\nWhere, shortly before the conclusion of a performance at a theatre, the defendant put out the lights on a staircase which a large number of persons had to descend in order to leave the theatre, and he also obstructed the exit by placing an iron bar across a doorway which they had in leaving to pass, and upon the lights being thus extinguished, a large proportion of the audience were seized by panic and rushed in fright down the staircase forcing those in front against the iron bar, he \"inflicted\" injuries which resulted by reason of the pressure and struggling of the crowd thus created on the staircase.\n\nDavid Ormerod said that the effect of the decision in \"R v Gibbins and Proctor\" appears to be that the offence of causing grievous bodily harm under section 18 can be committed by an omission.\n\nIn \"R v Mandair\", Lord Mackay of Clashfern LC. said, with the agreement of the majority of the House of Lords, \"In my opinion ... the word 'cause' is wider or at least not narrower than the word 'inflict'\".\n\nIn \"R v Burstow, R v Ireland\", it was held that an offence of inflicting grievous bodily harm under section 20 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 can be committed where no physical violence is applied directly or indirectly to the body of the victim.\n\nLord Hope of Craighead said \"the word \"inflict\" implies that the consequence of the act is something which the victim is likely to find unpleasant or harmful.\" He said that, in the context of a criminal act, the words \"cause\" and \"inflict\" may be taken to be interchangeable.\n\nLord Steyn described the actions of Burstow as follows: \"During an eight month period in 1995 covered by the indictment he continued his campaign of harassment. He made some silent telephone calls to her. He also made abusive calls to her. He distributed offensive cards in the street where she lived. He was frequently, and unnecessarily, at her home and place of work. He surreptitiously took photographs of the victim and her family. He sent her a note which was intended to be menacing, and was so understood.\"\n\nNeither offence requires that a common assault be committed.\n\nIn \"R v Wilson, R v Jenkins\", Lord Roskill said:\nIn \"R v Clarence\", it appeared that at a time when the prisoner knew, but his wife did not know, that he was suffering from gonorrhoea, he had \"connection\" with her; that the result was that the disease was communicated to her, and that had she been aware of the prisoner's condition she would not have submitted to the intercourse.\n\nClarence's conviction under section 20 was quashed by the Court for Crown Cases Reserved by a majority of 9 to 4. Wills, A L Smith and Stephen JJ. specifically said that they thought the disease had not been inflicted within the meaning of the word \"inflict\" in section 20. Mathew J. said that he agreed with Stephen. Stephen said that he had been informed that Grantham J. agreed with him. Huddleston B. said that he thoroughly agreed with Stephen. Lord Coleridge CJ. said that he agreed with all or almost all of what Wills and Stephen said. Hawkins J. specifically said that he thought it had been inflicted within the meaning of the word \"inflict\" in section 20.\n\nWills J said (footnotes have been included in the body of the text, indicated by \"(1)\"):\n\nStephen J said:\n\nA L Smith J. said \"it appears to me that this offence cannot be committed unless an assault has in fact been committed, and indeed this has been so held\".\n\nHawkins J. said that he thought that the contention that bodily harm cannot be legally said to be \"inflicted\" unless it has been brought about by some act amounting to an assault was untenable.\n\nIn \"R v Mowatt\" Lord Diplock said:\n\nTherefore, the defendant must at least be reckless as to whether some harm, albeit not necessarily serious harm, is likely to be caused, (see \"R v Savage, DPP v Parmenter\",) but a mere intention to frighten is not enough (see \"R v Sullivan\").\n\nIn \"R v Sullivan\" [1981] Crim LR 46, CA, the appellant was tried on charges of causing grievous bodily harm with intent and inflicting grievous bodily harm. The victim said that the appellant and a companion were drunk. He said that while he was in a street that was eight feet wide and had a narrow pavement, the appellant drove a car through that street at twenty five to thirty miles an hour, mounted the pavement and injured him. The appellant denied that he was the driver of the car in a written statement to the police and said he could add nothing to that statement in an unsworn statement from the dock. However, during his closing speech, counsel for the defence suggested that all the appellant intended to do was frighten the victim and no more. The jury were directed that if there was an intention to frighten, and injury took place as a result, the appellant was guilty of an offence under section 20. The appellant was acquitted of the offence under section 18, but convicted of offences under section 20. The Court of Appeal held that an intention to frighten was not enough to constitute the necessary mens rea for section 20, and that the direction to the contrary effect was a misdirection. However, they dismissed the appellant's appeal. They said that a properly directed jury could not in the circumstances have come to any other conclusion than that the appellant must have been aware that what he was doing was likely to cause physical injury to the victim.\n\nIn practice, malice in the case of these offences means no more than foresight of the risk of bodily harm: \"R v Barnes\" [2005] 1 Cr App R 30.\n\nSection 18 has two separate \"mens rea\" requirements and is therefore an offence of specific rather than basic intent. \"R v Belfon\" [1976] 1 WLR 741, CA, confirmed that references to mere foresight or recklessness that harm was likely to result are sufficient for the element \"unlawfully and maliciously inflict/cause\" for the basic intent in both sections 18 and 20 but insufficient for the specific element. The intention either to cause or to resist arrest must be proved subjectively, say, in the charge \"malicious wounding with intent to cause grievous bodily harm\".\n\nThe Crown Prosecution Service said that the following factors may indicate the specific intent: \"a repeated or planned attack; deliberate selection of a weapon or adaptation of an article to cause injury, such as breaking a glass before an attack; making prior threats; and using an offensive weapon against, or kicking the victim's head\".\n\nSections 20 and 47 are offences of basic intent and can be an alternative charge to section 18, and/or section 47 is a lesser included offence.\n\nConsent is only an allowed defence to either section if there is considered to be a good reason. This may include medical operations, sport, body modifications (even if carried out by someone who is not trained), and, occasionally, \"horseplay\".\n\n\"R v Brown (Anthony)\" however ruled that consensual sadomasochism is not legal.\n\nIn England and Wales, the offence under section 18 is an indictable-only offence.\n\nIn England and Wales, the offence under section 20 is triable either way.\n\nIn England and Wales, an offence under section 18 is punishable with imprisonment for life or for any shorter term.\n\nSee the Crown Prosecution Service Sentencing Manual for case law on sentencing of section 18 . Relevant cases are:\n\n\nIn Northern Ireland, an offence under section 18 is punishable with imprisonment for life or for any shorter term.\n\nIn England and Wales, a person guilty of an offence under section 20 is liable, on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years, or on summary conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or to a fine not exceeding the prescribed sum, or to both.\n\nWhere a person is convicted on indictment of an offence under section 20, other than an offence for which the sentence falls to be imposed under section 227 or 228 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003, the court, if not precluded from sentencing an offender by its exercise of some other power, may impose a fine instead of or in addition to dealing with him in any other way in which the court has power to deal with him, subject however to any enactment requiring the offender to be dealt with in a particular way.\n\nAn offence under section 20 is a specified offence for the purposes of chapter 5 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 because it is a specified violent offence. It is not a serious offence for the purposes of that Chapter because it is not, apart from section 225, punishable in the case of a person aged 18 or over by imprisonment for life, or by imprisonment for a determinate period of ten years or more. This means that sections 227 and 228 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (which relate to extended sentences) apply where a person is convicted of an offence under section 20, committed after the commencement of section 227 or 228 (as the case may be) and the court considers that there is a significant risk to members of the public of serious harm occasioned by the commission by the offender of further specified offences.\n\nSee the Crown Prosecution Service Sentencing Manual for case law on sentencing of section 20 \n\nThe following cases are relevant to section 20:\n\nIn Northern Ireland, a person guilty of an offence under section 20 is liable, on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding seven years, or on summary conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding twelve months, or to a fine not exceeding the prescribed sum, or to both.\n\nIn England and Wales, section 29(1)(a) of the Crime and Disorder Act 1998 (c 37) creates the distinct offence of racially or religiously aggravated wounding or infliction of bodily harm. This is an aggravated version of the offence under section 20.\n\n\n\nCrown Prosecution Service\n"}
{"id": "37995171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37995171", "title": "History of encyclopedias", "text": "History of encyclopedias\n\nEncyclopedias have progressed from the beginning of history in written form, through medieval and modern times in print, and most recently, displayed on computer and distributed via computer networks.\n\nK<\n</ref>==Ancient times==\nEncyclopedias have existed for around 2,000 years.\n\nMarcus Terentius Varro (; 116 BC – 27 BC) was an ancient Roman scholar and writer.\n\nHis \"Nine Books of Disciplines\" became a model for later encyclopedists, especially Pliny the Elder. The most noteworthy portion of the \"Nine Books of Disciplines\" is its use of the liberal arts as organizing principles. Varro decided to focus on identifying nine of these arts: grammar, rhetoric, logic, arithmetic, geometry, astronomy, musical theory, medicine, and architecture. Using Varro's list, subsequent writers defined the seven classical \"liberal arts of the medieval schools\".\n\nThe earliest encyclopedic work to have survived to modern times is the \"Naturalis Historia\" of Pliny the Elder, a Roman statesman living in the 1st century AD. He compiled a work of 37 chapters covering natural history, architecture, medicine, geography, geology, and all aspects of the world around him. He stated in the preface that he had compiled 20,000 facts from 2000 works by over 200 authors, and added many others from his own experience. The work was published around AD 77-79, although he probably never finished proofing the work before his death in the eruption of Vesuvius in AD 79.\n\nMy subject is a barren one – the world of nature, or in other words life; and that subject in its least elevated department, and employing either rustic terms or foreign, many barbarian words that actually have to be introduced with an apology. Moreover, the path is not a beaten highway of authorship, nor one in which the mind is eager to range: there is not one of us who has made the same venture, nor yet one Greek who has tackled single-handed all departments of the subject.\n\nHe also elaborates on the difficulties of writing such a work:\n\nIt is a difficult task to give novelty to what is old, authority to what is new, brilliance to the common-place, light to the obscure, attraction to the stale, credibility to the doubtful, but nature to all things and all her properties to nature.\n\nThis work became very popular in Antiquity, and survived, with many copies being made and distributed in the western world. It was one of the first classical manuscripts to be printed in 1470, and has remained popular ever since as a source of information on the Roman world, and especially Roman art, Roman technology and Roman engineering. It is also a recognised source for medicine, art, mineralogy, zoology, botany, geology and many other topics not discussed by other classical authors. Among many interesting entries are those for the elephant and the murex snail, the much sought-after source of Tyrian purple dye.\n\nAlthough his work has been criticized for the lack of candor in checking the \"facts\", some of his text has been confirmed by recent research, like the spectacular remains of Roman gold mines in Spain, especially at Las Médulas, which Pliny probably saw in operation while a Procurator there a few years before he compiled the encyclopedia. Although many of the mining methods are now redundant, such as hushing and fire-setting, it is Pliny who recorded them for posterity, thereby helping us understand their importance in a modern context. Pliny makes clear the fact in the preface to his work that he had checked his facts by reading and comparing the works of others, as well as referring to them by name. Many such books are now lost works and remembered only by his references, much like the lost sources mentioned in the work of Vitruvius a century earlier.\n\nThe work \"De nuptiis Mercurii et Philologiae\" (\"About the wedding of Mercury and Philologia\") written by Martianus Capella (4th-5th century) was very influential on the successive medieval encyclopedias. It consists in a complete encyclopedia of classical erudition. It firstly introduced the division and classification of the seven liberal arts (trivium and quadrivium), followed by many successive works along the Middle Ages.\n\nThe first Christian encyclopedia were the \"Institutiones divinarum et saecularium litterarum\" of Cassiodorus (543-560), which were divided in two parts: the first one dealt with Christian Divinity; the second one described the seven liberal arts.\n\nSaint Isidore of Seville, one of the greatest scholars of the early Middle Ages, is widely recognized as being the author of the first known encyclopedia of the Middle Ages, the \"Etymologiae\" or \"Origines\" (around 630), in which he compiled a sizable portion of the learning available at his time, both ancient and modern. The encyclopedia has 448 chapters in 20 volumes, and is valuable because of the quotes and fragments of texts by other authors that would have been lost had they not been collected by Saint Isidore.\n\nThe most popular encyclopedia of the Carolingian Age was the \"De universo\" or \"De rerum naturis\" by Rabanus Maurus, written about 830, which was based on \"Etymologiae\".\n\nMany encyclopedic works were written during the 12th and 13th centuries. Among them, \"Hortus deliciarum\" (1167–1185) by Herrad of Landsberg which is thought to be the first encyclopedia written by a woman. \"De proprietatibus rerum\" by Bartholomeus Anglicus (1240) is often described as the most widely read and quoted encyclopedia in the High Middle Ages while Vincent of Beauvais's \"Speculum Majus\" (1260) was the most ambitious encyclopedia in the late-medieval period at over 3 million words.\n\nThe first encyclopedias in vernacular languages were translations or abridgements of works in Latin. Among them, the most famous is \"Li livre dou Trésor\", written in French by the Florentine Brunetto Latini. It is mainly based on the \"Speculum Majus\". The works by the Flemish Jacob van Maerlant, as a whole, are regarded as an encyclopedia. These works, too, are based on former Latin texts.\n\nByzantine encyclopedias were compendia of information about both Ancient and Byzantine Greece. The first of them was the \"Bibliotheca\" written by the patriarch Photius (9th century).\n\nThe \"Suda\" or Souda (Greek: Σοῦδα) is a massive 10th century Byzantine encyclopedia of the ancient Mediterranean world, formerly attributed to an author called Suidas. It is an encyclopedic lexicon, written in Greek, with 30,000 entries, many drawing from ancient sources that have since been lost, and often derived from medieval Christian compilers.\n\nThe early Muslim compilations of knowledge in the Middle Ages included many comprehensive works. Around year 960, the Brethren of Purity of Basra were engaged in their Encyclopedia of the Brethren of Purity. Notable works include Abu Bakr al-Razi's encyclopedia of science, the Mutazilite Al-Kindi's prolific output of 270 books, and Ibn Sina's medical encyclopedia, which was a standard reference work for centuries. Also notable are works of universal history (or sociology) from Asharites, al-Tabri, al-Masudi, Tabari's \"History of the Prophets and Kings\", Ibn Rustah, al-Athir, and Ibn Khaldun, whose Muqaddimah contains cautions regarding trust in written records that remain wholly applicable today.\n\nThese scholars have influenced methods of research and editing, due in part to the Islamic practice of isnad which emphasized fidelity to written record, checking sources, and skeptical inquiry. An acquisition of knowledge it was believed not only enlightened the mind but also led to a greater appreciation of God. To be remarkable during these times was to keep pace with the ‘march of intellect’ and the printing press became a necessity for the widespread dissemination of this commodity called knowledge. As a means of cultural production, the printing press was the very embodiment of the ideal of ‘Enlightenment’.\n\nVarāhamihira's (505–587 CE) Brihat Samhita (\"large compilation\") is an encyclopedic work, not only dealing with astrology but also rainfall, clouds, water-divination, intentions and characteristics of animals, perfumes, erotic recipes, pimples, temples, architecture and other topics.\n\nThe enormous encyclopedic work in China of the \"Four Great Books of Song\", compiled by the 11th century during the early Song dynasty (960–1279), was a massive literary undertaking for the time. The last encyclopedia of the four, the \"Prime Tortoise of the Record Bureau\", amounted to 9.4 million Chinese characters in 1,000 written volumes. There were many great encyclopedists throughout Chinese history, including the scientist and statesman Shen Kuo (1031–1095) with his \"Dream Pool Essays\" of 1088, the statesman, inventor, and agronomist Wang Zhen (active 1290–1333) with his \"Nong Shu\" of 1313, and the written \"Tiangong Kaiwu\" of Song Yingxing (1587–1666), the latter of whom was termed the \"Diderot of China\" by British historian Joseph Needham.\n\nThe Yongle Emperor of the Ming dynasty oversaw the compilation of the \"Yongle Encyclopedia\", one of the largest encyclopedias in history, which was completed in 1408 and comprised over 370 million Chinese characters in 11,000 handwritten volumes, of which only about 400 remain today. In the succeeding Qing dynasty, the Qianlong Emperor personally composed 40,000 poems as part of a 4.7 million page library in 4 divisions, including thousands of essays, called the \"Siku Quanshu\" which is probably the largest collection of books in the world. It is instructive to compare his title for this knowledge, \"Watching the waves in a Sacred Sea\" to a Western-style title for all knowledge. Encyclopedic works, both in imitation of Chinese encyclopedias and as independent works of their own origin, have been known to exist in Japan since the 9th century.\n\nThese works were all hand copied and thus rarely available, beyond wealthy patrons or monastic men of learning: they were expensive, and usually written for those extending knowledge rather than those using it.\n\nDuring the Renaissance, the creation of printing allowed a wider diffusion of encyclopedias and every scholar could have his or her own copy.\n\nThe \"De expetendis et fugiendis rebus\" by Giorgio Valla was posthumously printed in 1501 by Aldo Manuzio in Venice. This work followed the traditional scheme of liberal arts. However, Valla added the translation of ancient Greek works on mathematics (firstly by Archimedes), newly discovered and translated.\n\nThe \"Margarita Philosophica\" by Gregor Reisch, printed in 1503, was a complete encyclopedia explaining the seven liberal arts.\n\nMuch encyclopaedism of the French Renaissance was based upon the notion of not including every fact known to humans, but only that knowledge that was necessary, where necessity was judged by a wide variety of criteria, leading to works of greatly varying sizes. Béroalde de Verville laid the foundation for his encyclopaedic works in a hexameral poem entitled \"Les cognoissances nécessaires\" for example. Often, the criteria had moral bases, such as in the case of Pierre de La Primaudaye's \"L'Académie française\" and Guillaume Telin's \"Bref sommaire des sept vertus &c.\". Encyclopaedists encountered several problems with this approach, including how to decide what to omit as unnecessary, how to structure knowledge that resisted structure (often simply as a consequence of the sheer amount of material that deserved inclusion), and how to cope with the influx of newly discovered knowledge and the effects that it had on prior structures.\n\nThe term encyclopaedia was coined by 15th century humanists who misread copies of their texts of Pliny and Quintilian, and combined the two Greek words \"enkyklios paideia\" into one word. The phrase \"enkyklios paideia\" (ἐγκύκλιος παιδεία) was used by Plutarch and the Latin word Enciclopedia came from him.<br>The first work titled in this way was the \"Encyclopedia orbisque doctrinarum, hoc est omnium artium, scientiarum, ipsius philosophiae index ac divisio\" written by Johannes Aventinus in 1517.\n\nThe English physician and philosopher, Sir Thomas Browne, specifically employed the word \"encyclopaedia\" for the first time in English as early as 1646 in the preface to the reader to describe his \"Pseudodoxia Epidemica\" or \"Vulgar Errors\", a series of refutations of common errors of his age. Browne structured his encyclopedia upon the time-honoured schemata of the Renaissance, the so-called 'scale of creation' which ascends a hierarchical ladder via the mineral, vegetable, animal, human, planetary and cosmological worlds. Browne's compendium went through no less than five editions, each revised and augmented, the last edition appearing in 1672. \"Pseudodoxia Epidemica\" found itself upon the bookshelves of many educated European readers, for throughout the late 17th century and early 18th century it was translated. For many years it was thought incompatible with the French and Dutcheze, into the French, Dutch and German languages as well as Latin.\n\nThe beginnings of the modern idea of the general-purpose, widely distributed printed encyclopedia precede the 18th century encyclopedists. However, Chambers' \"Cyclopædia, or an Universal Dictionary of Arts and Sciences\" (1728), and the \"Encyclopédie\" of Diderot and D'Alembert (1751 onwards), as well as \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" and the \"Conversations-Lexikon\", were the first to realize the form we would recognize today, with a comprehensive scope of topics, discussed in depth and organized in an accessible, systematic method. Chambers, in 1728, followed the earlier lead of John Harris's \"Lexicon Technicum\" of 1704 and later editions (see also below); this work was by its title and content \"A Universal English Dictionary of Arts and Sciences: Explaining not only the Terms of Art, but the Arts Themselves\".\n\nJohn Harris is often credited with introducing the now-familiar alphabetic format in 1704 with his English \"Lexicon Technicum: Or, A Universal English Dictionary of Arts and Sciences: Explaining not only the Terms of Art, but the Arts Themselves\" – to give its full title. Organized alphabetically, its content does indeed contain explanation not merely of the terms used in the arts and sciences, but of the arts and sciences themselves. Sir Isaac Newton contributed his only published work on chemistry to the second volume of 1710. Its emphasis was on science—and conformably to the broad 18th-century understanding of the term 'science', its content extends beyond what would be called science or technology today, and includes topics from the humanities and fine arts, e.g. a substantial number from law, commerce, music, and heraldry. At about 1,200 pages, its scope can be considered as more that of an encyclopedic dictionary than a true encyclopedia. Harris himself considered it a dictionary; the work is one of the first technical dictionaries in any language.\n\nEphraim Chambers published his \"Cyclopædia\" in 1728. It included a broad scope of subjects, used an alphabetic arrangement, relied on many different contributors and included the innovation of cross-referencing other sections within articles. Chambers has been referred to as the father of the modern encyclopedia for this two-volume work.\n\nA French translation of Chambers' work inspired the \"Encyclopédie\", perhaps the most famous early encyclopedia, notable for its scope, the quality of some contributions, and its political and cultural impact in the years leading up to the French Revolution. The \"Encyclopédie\" was edited by Jean le Rond d'Alembert and Denis Diderot and published in 17 volumes of articles, issued from 1751 to 1765, and 11 volumes of illustrations, issued from 1762 to 1772. Five volumes of supplementary material and a two volume index, supervised by other editors, were issued from 1776 to 1780 by Charles-Joseph Panckoucke.\n\nThe \"Encyclopédie\" represented the essence of the French Enlightenment. The prospectus stated an ambitious goal: the \"Encyclopédie\" was to be a systematic analysis of the \"order and interrelations of human knowledge.\" Diderot, in his \"Encyclopédie\" article of the same name, went further: \"to collect all the knowledge that now lies scattered over the face of the earth, to make known its general structure to the men among we live, and to transmit it to those who will come after us\", to make men not only wiser but also \"more virtuous and more happy.\"\n\nRealizing the inherent problems with the model of knowledge he had created, Diderot's view of his own success in writing the \"Encyclopédie\" were far from ecstatic. Diderot envisioned the perfect encyclopedia as more than the sum of its parts. In his own article on the encyclopedia, Diderot also wrote, \"Were an analytical dictionary of the sciences and arts nothing more than a methodical combination of their elements, I would still ask whom it behooves to fabricate good elements.\" Diderot viewed the ideal encyclopedia as an index of connections. He realized that all knowledge could never be amassed in just one large work, but he hoped the relations among the subjects could be.\n\nThe \"Encyclopédie\" in turn inspired the venerable \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", which had a modest beginning in Scotland: the first edition, issued between 1768 and 1771, had just three hastily completed volumes – A–B, C–L, and M–Z – with a total of 2,391 pages. By 1797, when the third edition was completed, it had been expanded to 18 volumes addressing a full range of topics, with articles contributed by a range of authorities on their subjects.\n\nThe German-language \"Conversations-Lexikon\" was published at Leipzig from 1796 to 1808, in 6 volumes. Paralleling other 18th century encyclopedias, its scope was expanded beyond that of earlier publications, in an effort at comprehensiveness. It was, however, intended not for scholarly use but to provide results of research and discovery in a simple and popular form without extensive detail. This format, a contrast to the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", was widely imitated by later 19th century encyclopedias in Britain, the United States, France, Spain, Italy and other countries. Of the influential late-18th century and early-19th century encyclopedias, the \"Conversations-Lexikon\" is perhaps most similar in form to today's encyclopedias.\nThe early years of the 19th century saw a flowering of encyclopedia publishing in the United Kingdom, Europe and America. In England \"Rees's Cyclopædia\" (1802–19) contains an enormous amount in information about the industrial and scientific revolutions of the time. A feature of these publications is the high-quality illustrations made by engravers like Wilson Lowry of art work supplied by specialist draftsmen like John Farey, Jr. Encyclopedias were published in Scotland, as a result of the Scottish Enlightenment, for education there was of a higher standard than in the rest of the United Kingdom. The National Revival of Bulgaria, influenced by the Enlightenment, resulted in Petar Beron's \"Primer with Various Instructions\" (also known as the \"Fish Primer\") in 1824. It was a small encyclopedia for children, containing fables, proverbs, ancient history, basic arithmetics, zoology and linguistics. Beron later published a 7-volume work in natural sciences known as \"Panepisteme\" in 1867.\n\nThe 17-volume \"Grand dictionnaire universel du XIXe siècle\" and its supplements were published in France by Pierre Larousse from 1866 to 1890.\n\n\"Encyclopædia Britannica\" appeared in various editions throughout the century, and the growth of popular education and the Mechanics' Institutes, spearheaded by the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge led to the production of the \"Penny Cyclopaedia\", as its title suggests issued in weekly numbers at a penny each like a newspaper.\n\nIn the early 20th century, the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" reached its eleventh edition, and inexpensive encyclopedias such as \"Harmsworth's Universal Encyclopaedia\" and \"Everyman's Encyclopaedia\" were common.\n\nDuring the 19th and early 20th century, many smaller or less developed languages saw their first encyclopedias, using French, German, and English role models. While encyclopedias in larger languages, having large markets that could support a large editorial staff, churned out new 20-volume works in a few years and new editions with brief intervals, such publication plans often spanned a decade or more in smaller languages.\n\nThe first large encyclopedia in Russian, \"Brockhaus and Efron Encyclopedic Dictionary\" (86 volumes, 1890–1906), was a direct cooperation with the German Brockhaus.\n\nWithout such a formal cooperation, the Swedish \"Conversations-lexicon\" (4 volumes, 1821–1826) was a translation of Brockhaus 2nd edition. The first encyclopedia written originally in Swedish was \"Svenskt konversationslexikon\" (4 volumes, 1845–1851) by Per Gustaf Berg. A more ambitious project was \"Nordisk familjebok\", established in 1875 and intended to comprise 6 volumes. But in 1885, when it had published 8 volumes and gotten only halfways (A–K), the publisher turned to the government for extra funding; encyclopedias had become national monuments. It was finished in 1894 with 18 volumes, with two supplement volumes (1896–1899).\n\nThe first major Danish encyclopedia was \"Salmonsens Konversationsleksikon\" (19 volumes, 1893–1911).\n\nIn Norway, encyclopedias follow the unique history of the Norwegian language, the Bokmål variant having branched off from Danish during the 19th century. After the national independence in 1905, publisher Aschehoug (owned by William Martin Nygaard) hired librarian Haakon Nyhuus to edit \"Illustreret norsk konversationsleksikon\" (6 volumes, 1907–1913), in later editions known as \"Aschehougs konversasjonsleksikon\". In the Nynorsk variant of the language, \"Norsk Allkunnebok\" (10 volumes, 1948–1966) was the only encyclopedia until the arrival of Wikipedia.\n\nThe first major Finnish encyclopedia was \"Tietosanakirja\" (11 volumes, 1909–1922). Inspired by the minority language example of \"Norsk Allkunnebok\", a Swedish-language encyclopedia of Finland was initiated in 1969 and eventually published as \"Uppslagsverket Finland\" (3 volumes, 1982–1985; 2nd edition in 5 volumes, 2003–2007). With such a small market, the sales revenue only covered the printing cost, while editors were paid by endowments. In 2009 the entire contents was made available online, free of charge.\n\nAlready during czarist Russian rule, two editions appeared of the Latvian \"Konversācijas vārdnīca\" (2 volumes, 1891–1893; 4 volumes, 1906–1921). The larger \"Latviešu konversācijas vārdnīca\" (21 volumes, A–Tjepolo, 1927–1940) was interrupted by World War II and never completed. After the war, Latvian emigrants in Sweden published \"Latvju enciklopēdija\" (3 volumes, 1950–1956, with a supplement volume in 1962). Soviet authories published \"Latvijas PSR mazās enciklopēdijas\" (3 volumes, 1967–1970) and \"Latvijas padomju enciklopēdija\" (10 volumes, 1981–1988).\n\nSimilarly, in the history of Lithuanian encyclopedias, the \"Lietuviškoji enciklopedija\" (9 volumes A–J, 1933–1941) was interrupted by World War II and never completed. Lithuanian emigrants in the United States published \"Lietuvių enciklopedija\" (35 volumes, 1953–1966). Soviet authorities published \"Mažoji lietuviškoji tarybinė enciklopedija\" (3 volumes, 1966–1971), \"Lietuviškoji tarybinė enciklopedija\" (12 volumes, 1976–1985), and \"Tarybų Lietuvos enciklopedija\" (4 volumes, 1985–1988).\nFirst Turkish encyclopedia was Kamus-ül-Ulûm ve’l-Maarif written by Ali Suvai in 1870 after that Ahmet Rifat Efendi's 7 volumes work \"Lûgaat-i Tarihiye ve Coğrafiye\" (Dictionary of History and Geography) published in Istanbul at 1881.\n\nPopular and affordable encyclopedias such as \"Harmsworth's Universal Encyclopaedia\" and \"The Children's Encyclopædia\" appeared in the early 1920s.\n\nIn the United States, the 1950s and 1960s saw the introduction of several large popular encyclopedias, often sold on installment plans. The best known of these were \"World Book Encyclopedia\" and \"Funk & Wagnalls Standard Encyclopedia\".\n\nThe second half of the 20th century also saw the publication of several encyclopedias that were notable for synthesizing important topics in specific fields, often by means of new works authored by significant researchers. Such encyclopedias included \"The Encyclopedia of Philosophy\" (first published in 1967 and now in its second edition), and \"Elsevier's Handbooks In Economics\" series. Encyclopedias of at least one volume in size exist for most if not all academic disciplines, including, typically, such narrow topics such as bioethics and African-American history.\n\nBy the late 20th century, encyclopedias were being published on CD-ROMs for use with personal computers. Microsoft's \"Encarta\", launched in 1993, was a landmark example as it had no printed equivalent. Articles were supplemented with video and audio files as well as numerous high-quality images. After sixteen years, Microsoft discontinued the Encarta line of products in 2009.\n\nTraditional encyclopedias are written by a number of employed text writers, usually people with an academic degree, and distributed as proprietary content.\n\nEncyclopedias are essentially derivative from what has gone before, and particularly in the 19th century, copyright infringement was common among encyclopedia editors. However, modern encyclopedias are not merely larger compendia, including all that came before them. To make space for modern topics, valuable material of historic use regularly had to be discarded, at least before the advent of digital encyclopedias. Moreover, the opinions and world views of a particular generation can be observed in the encyclopedic writing of the time. For these reasons, old encyclopedias are a useful source of historical information, especially for a record of changes in science and technology.\n\nAs of 2007, old encyclopedias whose copyright has expired, such as the 1911 edition of \"Britannica\", are also the only free content English encyclopedias released in print form. However, works such as the \"Great Soviet Encyclopedia\", which were created in the public domain, exist as free content encyclopedias in other languages.\n\nThe concept of a new free encyclopedia began with the Interpedia proposal on Usenet in 1993, which outlined an Internet-based online encyclopedia to which anyone could submit content and that would be freely accessible. Early projects in this vein included Everything2 and Open Site. In 1999, Richard Stallman proposed the GNUPedia, an online encyclopedia which, similar to the GNU operating system, would be a \"generic\" resource. The concept was very similar to Interpedia, but more in line with Stallman's GNU philosophy.\n\nIt was not until Nupedia and later Wikipedia that a stable free encyclopedia project was able to be established on the Internet.\n\nThe English Wikipedia, which was started in 2001, became the world's largest encyclopedia in 2004 at the 300,000 article stage and by late 2005, Wikipedia had produced over two million articles in more than 80 languages with content licensed under the copyleft GNU Free Documentation License. As of August 2009, Wikipedia had over 3 million articles in English and well over 10 million combined in over 250 languages. Wikipedia currently has articles in English. Since 2003, other free encyclopedias like the Chinese-language Baidu Baike and Hudong, as well as English language encyclopedias like Citizendium and Knol have appeared. Knol has been discontinued.\n\nAn encyclopedia's hierarchical structure and evolving nature is particularly adaptable to a digital format, and all major printed general encyclopedias had moved to this method of delivery by the end of the 20th century. Disk-based, typically DVD-ROM or CD-ROM format, publications have the advantage of being cheaply produced and easily portable. Additionally, they can include media which are impossible to store in the printed format, such as animations, audio and video. Hyperlinking between conceptually related items is also a significant benefit, although even Diderot's encyclopedia had cross-referencing.\n\nOn-line encyclopedias offer the additional advantage of being dynamic: new information can be presented almost immediately, rather than waiting for the next release of a static format, as with a disk- or paper-based publication. Many printed encyclopedias traditionally published annual supplemental volumes (\"yearbooks\") to update events between editions, as a partial solution to the problem of staying up-to-date, but this of course required the reader to check both the main volumes and the supplemental volumes. Some disk-based encyclopedias offer subscription-based access to online updates, which are then integrated with the content already on the user's hard disk in a manner not possible with a printed encyclopedia.\n\nInformation in a printed encyclopedia necessarily needs some form of hierarchical structure. Traditionally, the method employed is to present the information ordered alphabetically by the article title. However, with the advent of dynamic electronic formats the need to impose a pre-determined structure is less necessary. Nonetheless, most electronic encyclopedias still offer a range of organizational strategies for the articles, such as by subject, area, or alphabetically.\n\nDigital encyclopedias also offer greater search abilities than printed versions. While the printed versions rely on indexes to assist in searching for topics, computer accessible versions allow searching through article text for keywords or phrases.\n\nSpecialized encyclopedias may offer a more comprehensive content. For example, Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, ADAM Medical Encyclopedia (which includes over 4,000 articles about diseases, tests, symptoms, injuries, and surgeries), the Wiki Encyclopedia of Law and the Encyclopedia of Earth all provide a more focused list of topics.\n\nIn the Islamic Republic of Iran, recent works include the \"Encyclopaedia of the World of Islam\" prepared in 10 volumes by The Encyclopaedia Islamica Foundation, the \"Encyclopaedia of Contemporary Islam\" published as a four-volume English encyclopedia including around 1200 entries. Other such works are: the \"Encyclopedia of Imam Ali\", the \"Encyclopedia of Qur'anology\", and the \"Encyclopedia of Lady Fātima\", all published by the Islamic Research Institute for Culture and Thought (IICT).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "174158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=174158", "title": "Honour", "text": "Honour\n\nHonour (or honor in American English; either spelling in Canadian English) is the idea of a bond between an individual and a society as a quality of a person that is both of social teaching and of personal ethos, that manifests itself as a code of conduct, and has various elements such as valor, chivalry, honesty, and compassion. It is an abstract concept entailing a perceived quality of worthiness and respectability that affects both the social standing and the self-evaluation of an individual or institution such as a family, school, regiment or nation. Accordingly, individuals (or institutions) are assigned worth and stature based on the harmony of their actions with a specific code of honour, and the moral code of the society at large.\n\nSamuel Johnson, in his \"A Dictionary of the English Language\" (1755), defined honour as having several senses, the first of which was \"nobility of soul, magnanimity, and a scorn of meanness\".\nThis sort of honour derives from the perceived virtuous conduct and personal integrity of the person endowed with it. On the other hand, Johnson also defined honour in relationship to \"reputation\" and \"fame\"; to \"privileges of rank or birth\", and as \"respect\" of the kind which \"places an individual socially and determines his right to precedence\". This sort of honour is often not so much a function of moral or ethical excellence, as it is a consequence of power. Finally, with respect to sexuality, \"honour\" has traditionally been associated with (or identical to) \"chastity\" or \"virginity\", or in case of married men and women, \"fidelity\". Some have argued that honour should be seen more as a rhetoric, or set of possible actions, than as a code.\n\nHonour as a code of behaviour defines the duties of an individual within a social group. Margaret Visser observes that in an honour-based society \"a person is what he or she is in the eyes of other people\". A code of honour differs from a legal code, also socially defined and concerned with justice, in that honour remains implicit rather than explicit and objectified.\n\nOne can distinguish honour from dignity, which Wordsworth assessed as measured against an individual's conscience rather than against the judgement of a community. Compare also the sociological concept of \"face\".\n\nIn the early medieval period, a lord's or lady's honour was the group of manors or lands he or she held. \"The word was first used indicating an estate which gave its holder dignity and status.\" For a person to say \"on my honour\" was not just an affirmation of his or her integrity and rank, but the veracity behind that phrase meant he or she was willing to offer up estates as pledge and guarantee.\n\nThe concept of honour appears to have declined in importance in the modern West; conscience has replaced it in the individual context, and the rule of law (with the rights and duties defined therein) has taken over in a social context. Popular stereotypes would have it surviving more definitively in more tradition-bound cultures (e.g. Pashtun, Southern Italian, Polish, Persian, Turkish, Arab, Iberian, \"Old South\" or Dixie) in a perception akin to Orientalism. Feudal or other agrarian societies, which focus upon land use and land ownership, may tend to \"honour\" more than do contemporary industrial societies. Note that Saint Anselm of Canterbury (c. 1033 – 1109) in \"Cur Deus Homo\" extended the concept of honour from his own feudal society to postulate God's honour.\n\nAn emphasis on the importance of honour exists in such traditional institutions as the military (serving officers may conduct a court of honour) and in organisations with a military ethos, such as Scouting organisations (which also feature \"Courts of Honour\").\n\nHonour in the case of sexuality frequently relates, historically, to fidelity: preservation of \"honour\" equates primarily to maintenance of the virginity of singles and to the exclusive monogamy of the remainder of the population. Further conceptions of this type of honour vary widely between cultures; some cultures regard honour killings of (mostly female) members of one's own family as justified if the individuals have \"defiled the family's honour\" by marrying against the family's wishes, or even by becoming the victims of rape. Western observers generally see these honour killings as a way of men using the culture of honour to control female sexuality.\n\nSkinners, executioners, grave-diggers, shepherds, barber-surgeons, millers, linen-weavers, sow-gelders, latrine-cleaners, and bailiffs and their families were among the \"dishonourable people\" (\"unehrliche Leute\") in early modern German society.\n\nVarious sociologists and anthropologists have contrasted cultures of honour with cultures of law. A culture of law has a body of laws which all members of society must obey, with punishments for transgressors. This requires a society with the structures required to enact and enforce laws. A culture of law incorporates a social contract: members of society give up some aspects of their freedom to defend themselves and retaliate for injuries, on the understanding that society will apprehend and punish transgressors.\n\nAn alternative to government enforcement of laws is community or individual enforcement of social norms.\n\nOne way that honor functions is as a major factor of reputation. In a system where there is no court that will authorize the use of force to guarantee the execution of contracts, an honorable reputation is very valuable to promote trust among transaction partners. To dishonor an agreement could be economically ruinous, because all future potential transaction partners might stop trusting the party not to lie, steal their money or goods, not repay debts, mistreat the children they marry off, have children with other people, abandon their children, or fail to provide aid when needed. A dishonorable person might be shunned by the community as a way to punish bad behavior and create an incentive for others to maintain their honor.\n\nIf one's honor is questioned, it can thus be important to disprove any false accusations or slander. In some cultures, the practice of dueling has arisen as a means to settle such disputes firmly, though by physical dominance in force or skill rather than by objective consideration of evidence and facts.\n\nHonor can also imply duty to perform certain actions, such as providing for and disciplining one's children, serving in the military during war, contributing to local collective projects like building infrastructure, or exacting revenge in retaliation for acts one is directly harmed by.\n\nThe concept of personal honor can be extended to family honor, which strengthens the incentives to follow social norms in two ways. First, the consequences of dishonorable actions (such as suicide or attempted robbery that results in death) outlive the perpetrator, and negatively affect family members they presumably care about. Second, when one member of the family misbehaves, other members of the family are in the position to and are incentivized to strongly enforce the community norms.\n\nIn strong honor cultures, those who do not conform may be forced or pressured into conformance and transgressors punished physically or psychologically. The use of violence may be collective in its character, where many relatives act together. The most extreme form of punishment is honor killing. Dueling and vengeance at a family level can result in a sustained feud.\n\nHonor-based cultures are also known as honor-shame cultures and contrasted with guilt cultures on the Guilt-Shame-Fear spectrum of cultures.\n\nCultures of honor are often conservative, encoding pre-modern traditional family values and duties. In some cases these values clash with those of post-sexual revolution and egalitarian societies. Add to this the prohibition against vigilante or individual justice-taking, cultures of law sometimes consider practices in honor cultures to be unethical or a violation of the legal concept of human rights.\n\nHistorians have especially examined the culture of honor in American South. Social scientists have looked at specialized subcultures such as South Asian Muslims in Britain. Others have compared multiple modern nations.\n\nOne paper finds that present-day Canadians born in communities that historically lay outside the reach of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (Mounties) seem to inherit a violent code of honour that drives their behaviour.\n\nFrom the viewpoint of anthropologists, cultures of honour typically appear among nomadic peoples and among herdsmen who carry their most valuable property with them and risk having it stolen, without having recourse to law enforcement or to government. Due to the lack of strong institutions, cultivating a reputation for swift and disproportionate revenge increases the safety of one's person and property against aggressive actors. Thinkers ranging from Montesquieu to Steven Pinker have remarked upon the mindset needed for a culture of honour.\n\nAccording to Richard Nisbett, cultures of honour will often arise when three conditions exist:\n\n\nHistorically, cultures of honour exist in places where the herding of animals dominates an economy. In this situation the geography is usually extensive, since the soil cannot support extensive sustained farming and thus large populations; the benefit of stealing animals from other herds is high since it is the main form of wealth; and there is no central law-enforcement or rule of law. However cultures of honour can also appear in places like modern inner-city slums. The three conditions exist here as well: lack of resources (poverty); crime and theft have a high rewards compared to the alternatives (few); and law enforcement is generally lax or corrupt.\n\nOnce a culture of honour exists in a society, its members find it difficult to make the transition to a culture of law; this requires that people become willing to back down and refuse to immediately retaliate, and from the viewpoint of the culture of honour, the feeling humiliation makes personal restraint extremely difficult as it reflects weakness and appeasement.\n\nHistorian Norman Risjord has emphasised the central importance of honor as a cause of the War of 1812, which the United States launched in against Britain despite its much more powerful naval and military strength. Americans of every political stripe saw the need to uphold national honor, and to reject the treatment of the United States by Britain as a third class nonentity. Americans talked incessantly about the need for force in response. This quest for honor was a major cause of the war in the sense that most Americans who were not involved in mercantile interests or threatened by Indian attack strongly endorsed the preservation of national honor. The humiliating attack by HMS \"Leopard\" against USS \"Chesapeake\" in June 1807 was a decisive event. Historians have documented the importance of honor in shaping public opinion in a number of states, including Massachusetts, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Tennessee, as well as the territory of Michigan. The successful conclusion of the war, especially the spectacular defeat of the main British invasion army at New Orleans, did restore the American sense of honor. \n\nThe British showed a respect for American honor. \"Some of the strongest praise for America and swiftest recognition of what the young republic had achieved for American honor, prestige, and power came from within British naval circles.\" Britain refrained from interfering with American maritime interests and ceased with the impressment of American citizens following the war.\n\nA 2016 study suggests that honour culture increases the risk of war. The study found that international conflicts under U.S. presidents who were raised in the American South \"are shown to be twice as likely to involve uses of force, last on average twice as long, and are three times more likely to end in victory for the United States than disputes under non-Southern presidents. Other characteristics of Southern presidencies do not seem able to account for this pattern of results.\"\n\nWorking towards eliminating violence against women in the name of honor was in 2001 the aim of United Nations resolution 55/66 which was adopted by the General Assembly.\n\nIn contemporary international relations, the concept of \"credibility\" resembles that of honour, as when the credibility of a state or of an alliance appears to be at stake, and honour-bound politicians call for drastic measures.\n\nCompare the concepts of integrity and face in stereotyped East Asian cultures, or of mana in Polynesian society.\n\nThe ancient Greek concepts of honour (\"timē\") included not only the exaltation of the one receiving honour, but also the shaming of the one overcome by the act of hubris. This concept of honour resembles a zero-sum game.\n\nIn ancient China during the Warring States period, honour in battle was one of the many forms of virtue practised by the nobility. In one oft-cited example, Duke Xiang of the Song state chose not to take the enemy by surprise; instead, he and his forces waited for the enemy to go across the river. This marked conduct worthy of the accolade descriptor \"ren\" (仁), worthy of the name of \"gentleman\". In response to this textbook example, Mao Zedong is quoted: \"We are not Duke Xiang of Song and have no use for his idiotic virtue and morality.\"\n\nPre-modern Korean thought and society was largely dominated by the preservation of honour and was especially concerned with the ruling yangban elite in the Joseon dynasty. In particular, one of the most profound influences from the Joseon Dynasty is the figure of the Seonbi, or \"virtuous scholar\". The seonbi were ideal, exemplary noblemen of Confucian teachings who exhibited high competency in both academics and martial arts. Despite their obvious qualifications for important government posts, the seonbi eschewed titles and extravagance for the sake of personal development, often living in humble homes. They were expected to be fiercely loyal to the King of Joseon and lay down their lives in battle or in defense of their King, rather than choose treason. Inspired by the righteous nature of the seonbi, the modern Korean term of the \"seonbi spirit\" calls for maintaining personal honour and conduct, even in the face of certain death.\n\nAccording to Bushido, honour was always seen as a duty by Samurai. When one lost their honour or the situation made them lose it, the only way to save their dignity was by death. Seppuku (vulgarly called \"harakiri\", or \"belly-cutting\") was the most honourable death in that situation. The only way for a Samurai to die more honourably was to be killed in a battle by a sword.\n\nAs a countable noun, \"honour\" may refer to an award, e.g. given by the state. Such honours include military medals, but more typically imply a civilian award, such as a British OBE, a knighthood or membership of the French Légion d'honneur.\n\nSee also, List of prizes, medals, and awards; and Chivalric order.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12007", "title": "Johann Gottlieb Fichte", "text": "Johann Gottlieb Fichte\n\nJohann Gottlieb Fichte (; ; May 19, 1762 – January 27, 1814), was a German philosopher who became a founding figure of the philosophical movement known as German idealism, which developed from the theoretical and ethical writings of Immanuel Kant. Recently, philosophers and scholars have begun to appreciate Fichte as an important philosopher in his own right due to his original insights into the nature of self-consciousness or self-awareness. Fichte was also the originator of \"thesis–antithesis–synthesis\", an idea that is often erroneously attributed to Hegel. Like Descartes and Kant before him, Fichte was motivated by the problem of subjectivity and consciousness. Fichte also wrote works of political philosophy; he has a reputation as one of the fathers of German nationalism.\n\nFichte was born in Rammenau, Upper Lusatia. The son of a ribbon weaver, he came of peasant stock which had lived in the region for many generations. The family was noted in the neighborhood for its probity and piety. Christian Fichte, Johann Gottlieb's father, married somewhat above his station. It has been suggested that a certain impatience which Fichte himself displayed throughout his life was an inheritance from his mother.\n\nYoung Fichte received the rudiments of his education from his father. He showed remarkable ability from an early age, and it was owing to his reputation among the villagers that he gained the opportunity for a better education than he otherwise would have received. The story runs that the Freiherr von Militz, a country landowner, arrived too late to hear the local pastor preach. He was, however, informed that a lad in the neighborhood would be able to repeat the sermon practically verbatim. As a result, the baron took the lad into his protection, which meant that he paid his tuition.\n\nFichte was placed in the family of Pastor Krebel at Niederau near Meissen and there received thorough grounding in the classics. From this time onward, Fichte saw little of his parents. In October 1774, he was attending the celebrated foundation-school at Pforta near Naumburg. This school is associated with the names of Novalis, August Wilhelm Schlegel, Friedrich Schlegel and Nietzsche. The spirit of the institution was semi-monastic and, while the education given was excellent in its way, it is doubtful whether there was enough social life and contact with the world for a pupil of Fichte's temperament and antecedents. Perhaps his education strengthened a tendency toward introspection and independence, characteristics which appear strongly in his doctrines and writings.\n\nIn 1780, he began study at the theology seminary of University of Jena. He was transferred a year later to study at the Leipzig University. Fichte seems to have supported himself at this period of bitter poverty and hard struggle. Freiherr von Militz continued to support him, but when he died in 1784, Fichte had to end his studies prematurely, without completing his degree.\n\nDuring the years 1784 to 1788, he supported himself in a precarious way as tutor in various Saxon families. In early 1788, he returned to Leipzig in the hope of finding a better employment, but eventually he had to settle for a much less promising position with the family of an innkeeper in Zurich. He lived in Zurich for the next two years (1788–1790), which was a time of great contentment for him. There he met his future wife, Johanna Rahn, and Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi. There he also became in 1793 a member of the Freemasonry lodge \"Modestia cum Libertate\" with which Johann Wolfgang Goethe was also connected. In the spring of 1790, he became engaged to Johanna. In the summer of 1790, Fichte began to study the works of Kant, but this occurred initially because one of his students wanted to know about them. They had a lasting effect on the trajectory of his life and thought. While he was assimilating the Kantian philosophy and preparing to develop it, fate dealt him a blow: the Rahn family had suffered financial reverses, and his impending marriage had to be postponed.\n\nFrom Zurich, Fichte returned to Leipzig in May 1790. In the spring of 1791, he obtained a tutorship at Warsaw in the house of a Polish nobleman. The situation, however, quickly proved disagreeable and he was released. He then got a chance to see Kant at Königsberg. After a disappointing interview on July 4 of the same year, he shut himself in his lodgings and threw all his energies into the composition of an essay which would compel Kant's attention and interest. This essay, completed in five weeks, was the \"Versuch einer Critik aller Offenbarung\" (\"Attempt at a Critique of All Revelation\", 1792). In this book, according to Henrich, Fichte investigated the connections between divine revelation and Kant's critical philosophy. The first edition of the book was published without Kant or Fichte's knowledge, moreover without Fichte's name or signed preface. It was thus mistakenly thought to be a new work by Kant himself. Reviews were assuming Kant was the author when Kant cleared the confusion and openly praised the work and author. Fichte's reputation skyrocketed as many intellectuals of the day were of the opinion that it was \"the most shocking and astonishing news... [since] nobody but Kant could have written this book. This amazing news of a third sun in the philosophical heavens has set me into such confusion\". Karl Popper considers the book as essentially \"a fraud\" which though rather boring cleverly imitated Kant's style and that the rumours that Kant himself had written the book to be contrived. Kant waited seven years to make public statement about the incident; after considerable external pressure he dissociated himself from Fichte. In his statement, he inscribed, \"May God protect us from our friends. From our enemies, we can try to protect ourselves.\"\n\nIn October 1793, he was married in Zurich, where he remained the rest of the year. Stirred by the events and principles of the French Revolution, he wrote and anonymously published two pamphlets which led to him being seen as a devoted defender of liberty of thought and action and an advocate of political changes. In December of the same year, he received an invitation to fill the position of extraordinary professor of philosophy at the University of Jena. He accepted and began his lectures in May of the next year. With extraordinary zeal, he expounded his system of \"transcendental idealism\". His success was immediate. He seems to have excelled as a lecturer because of the earnestness and force of his personality. These lectures were later published under the title \"The Vocation of the Scholar\" (\"Einige Vorlesungen über die Bestimmung des Gelehrten\"). He gave himself up to intense production, and a succession of works soon appeared.\n\nAfter weathering a couple of academic storms, he was finally dismissed from Jena in 1799 as a result of a charge of atheism. He was accused of atheism in 1798 after publishing his essay \"Ueber den Grund unsers Glaubens an eine göttliche Weltregierung\" (\"On the Ground of Our Belief in a Divine World-Governance\"), which he had written in response to Friedrich Karl Forberg's essay \"Development of the Concept of Religion\", in his \"Philosophical Journal\". For Fichte, God should be conceived primarily in moral terms: \"The living and efficaciously acting moral order is itself God. We require no other God, nor can we grasp any other\" (\"On the Ground of Our Belief in a Divine World-Governance\").\n\nFichte's intemperate \"Appeal to the Public\" (\"Appellation an das Publikum\", 1799) provoked F. H. Jacobi to publish an open letter to Fichte, in which he equated philosophy in general and Fichte's transcendental philosophy in particular with nihilism.\n\nSince all the German states except Prussia had joined in the cry against him, he was forced to go to Berlin. There he associated himself with the Schlegels, Schleiermacher, Schelling and Tieck.\n\nIn April 1800, through the introduction of Hungarian writer Ignaz Aurelius Fessler, he was initiated into Freemasonry in the Lodge Pythagoras of the Blazing Star where he was elected minor warden. At first Fichte was a warm admirer of Fessler, and was disposed to aid him in his proposed Masonic reform. But later he became Fessler's bitter opponent. Their controversy attracted much attention among Freemasons. Fichte presented two lectures on the philosophy of Masonry during the same period as part of his work on the development of various higher degrees for the lodge in Berlin. A certain Johann Karl Christian Fischer, a high official of the Grand Orient, published those lectures in 1802/03 in two volumes under the title \"Philosophy of Freemasonry: Letters to Konstant\" (\"Philosophie der Maurerei. Briefe an Konstant\"), where Konstant referred to a fictitious non-Mason.\n\nIn November 1800, Fichte published \"The Closed Commercial State: A Philosophical Sketch as an Appendix to the Doctrine of Right and an Example of a Future Politics\" (\"Der geschlossene Handelsstaat. Ein philosophischer Entwurf als Anhang zur Rechtslehre und Probe einer künftig zu liefernden Politik\"), a philosophical statement of his property theory, a historical analysis of European economic relations, and a political proposal for reforming them.\n\nIn 1805, he was appointed to a professorship in Erlangen. The disaster at Jena in 1806, in which Napoleon completely crushed the Prussian army, drove him to Königsberg for a time, but he returned to Berlin in 1807 and continued his literary activity.\n\nThe deplorable situation of Germany stirred him to the depths and led him to deliver the famous \"Addresses to the German Nation\" (\"Reden an die deutsche Nation\", 1808) which guided the uprising against Napoleon. He became a professor of the new university at Berlin founded in 1810. By the votes of his colleagues Fichte was unanimously elected its rector in the succeeding year. But, once more, his impetuosity and reforming zeal led to friction, and he resigned in 1812. The campaign against Napoleon began, and the hospitals at Berlin were soon full of patients. Fichte's wife devoted herself to nursing and caught a virulent fever. Just as she was recovering, he himself was stricken down. He died of typhus at the age of 51.\n\nHis son, Immanuel Hermann Fichte (18 July 1796 – 8 August 1879), also made contributions to philosophy.\n\nIn mimicking Kant's difficult style, his critics argued that Fichte produced works that were barely intelligible. \"He made no hesitation in pluming himself on his great skill in the shadowy and obscure, by often remarking to his pupils, that 'there was only one man in the world who could fully understand his writings; and even he was often at a loss to seize upon his real meaning.'\" On the other hand, Fichte himself acknowledged the difficulty of his writings, but argued that his works were clear and transparent to those who made the effort to think without preconceptions and prejudices.\n\nFichte did not endorse Kant's argument for the existence of noumena, of \"things in themselves\", the supra-sensible reality beyond the categories of direct human perception. Fichte saw the rigorous and systematic separation of \"things in themselves\" (noumena) and things \"as they appear to us\" (phenomena) as an invitation to skepticism. Rather than invite such skepticism, Fichte made the radical suggestion that we should throw out the notion of a noumenal world and instead accept the fact that consciousness does not have a grounding in a so-called \"real world\". In fact, Fichte achieved fame for originating the argument that consciousness is not grounded in \"anything\" outside of itself. The phenomenal world as such, arises from self-consciousness; the activity of the ego; and moral awareness. His student (and critic), Arthur Schopenhauer, wrote:\n\nSøren Kierkegaard was also a student of the writings of Fichte: \n\nIn his work \"Foundations of Natural Right\" (1797), Fichte argued that self-consciousness was a social phenomenon — an important step and perhaps the first clear step taken in this direction by modern philosophy. A necessary condition of every subject's self-awareness, for Fichte, is the existence of other rational subjects. These others call or summon (\"fordern auf\") the subject or self out of its unconsciousness and into an awareness of itself as a free individual.\n\nFichte's account proceeds from the general principle that the I (\"das Ich\") must posit itself as an individual in order to posit (\"setzen\") itself at all, and that in order to posit itself as an individual it must recognize itself as it were to a calling or summons (\"Aufforderung\") by other free individual(s) — called, moreover, to limit its own freedom out of respect for the freedom of the other. The same condition applied and applies, of course, to the other(s) in its development. Hence, mutual recognition (\"gegenseitig anerkennen\") of rational individuals turns out to be a condition necessary for the individual I in general. This argument for intersubjectivity is central to the conception of selfhood developed in the \"Foundations of the Science of Knowledge\" (\"Grundlage der gesamten Wissenschaftslehre\", 1794/1795). In Fichte's view consciousness of the self depends upon resistance or a check by something that is understood as not part of the self yet is not immediately ascribable to a particular sensory perception. In his later 1796–1799 lectures (his \"Nova methodo\"), Fichte incorporated it into his revised presentation of the very foundations of his system, where the summons takes its place alongside original feeling, which takes the place of the earlier \"Anstoss\" (see below) as both a limit upon the absolute freedom of the I and a condition for the positing of the same.\n\nThe I itself posits this situation for itself. To posit does not mean to 'create' the objects of consciousness. The principle in question simply states that the essence of an I lies in the assertion of one's own self-identity, i.e., that consciousness presupposes self-consciousness. Such immediate self-identity, however, cannot be understood as a psychological fact, nor as an act or accident of some previously existing substance or being. It is an action of the I, but one that is identical with the very existence of this same I. In Fichte's technical terminology, the original unity of self-consciousness is to be understood both as an action and as the product of the same I, as a \"fact and/or act\" (\"Thathandlung\"; Modern German: \"Tathandlung\"), a unity that is presupposed by and contained within every fact and every act of empirical consciousness, although it never appears as such therein.\n\nThe I must posit itself in order to be an I at all; but it can posit itself only insofar as it posits itself as limited. Moreover, it cannot even posit for itself its own limitations, in the sense of producing or creating these limits. The finite I cannot be the ground of its own passivity. Instead, for Fichte, if the I is to posit itself off at all, it must simply discover itself to be limited, a discovery that Fichte characterizes as an \"impulse,\" \"repulse,\" or \"resistance\" (\"Anstoss\"; Modern German: \"Anstoß\") to the free practical activity of the I. Such an original limitation of the I is, however, a limit for the I only insofar as the I posits it out as a limit. The I does this, according to Fichte's analysis, by positing its own limitation, first, as only a feeling, then as a sensation, then as an intuition of a thing, and finally as a summons of another person. The \"Anstoss\" thus provides the essential impetus that first posits in motion the entire complex train of activities that finally result in our conscious experience both of ourselves and others as empirical individuals and of the world around us.\n\nThough \"Anstoss\" plays a similar role as the thing in itself does in Kantian philosophy, unlike Kant, Fichte's \"Anstoss\" is not something foreign to the I. Instead, it denotes the original encounter of the I with its own finitude. Rather than claim that the not-I (\"das Nicht-Ich\") is the cause or ground of the \"Anstoss\", Fichte argues that not-I is posited by the I precisely in order to explain to itself the \"Anstoss\", that is, in order to become conscious of \"Anstoss\".\n\nThough the \"Wissenschaftslehre\" demonstrates that such an \"Anstoss\" must occur if self-consciousness is to come about, it is quite unable to deduce or to explain the actual occurrence of such an \"Anstoss\" — except as a condition for the possibility of consciousness. Accordingly, there are strict limits to what can be expected from any a priori deduction of experience, and this limitation, for Fichte, equally applies to Kant's transcendental philosophy.\n\nAccording to Fichte, transcendental philosophy can explain that the world must have space, time, and causality, but it can never explain why objects have the particular sensible properties they happen to have or why I am this determinate individual rather than another. This is something that the I simply has to discover at the same time that it discovers its own freedom, and indeed, as a condition for the latter.\n\nDieter Henrich (1966) proposed that Fichte was able to move beyond a \"reflective theory of consciousness\". According to Fichte, the self must already have some prior acquaintance with itself, independent of the act of reflection (\"no object comes to consciousness except under the condition that I am aware of myself, the conscious subject [\"jedes Object kommt zum Bewusstseyn lediglich unter der Bedingung, dass ich auch meiner selbst, des bewusstseyenden Subjects mir bewusst sey\"]\"). This idea is what Henrich called Fichte's original insight.\n\nFichte also developed a theory of the state based on the idea of self-sufficiency. In his mind, the state should control international relations, the value of money, and remain an autarky. Because of this necessity to have relations with other rational beings in order to achieve consciousness, Fichte writes that there must be a 'relation of right', in which there is a mutual recognition of rationality by both parties.\n\nBetween December 1807 and March 1808, Fichte gave a series of lectures concerning the \"German nation\" and its culture and language, projecting the kind of national education he hoped would raise it from the humiliation of its defeat at the hands of the French. Having been a supporter of Revolutionary France, Fichte became disenchanted by 1804 as Napoleon's armies advanced through Europe, occupying German territories, stripping them of their raw materials and subjugating them to foreign rule. Consequently, Fichte came to believe Germany would be responsible to carry the virtues of the French Revolution into the future. Furthermore, his nationalism was not aroused by Prussian military defeat and humiliation, for these had not yet occurred, but resulted from devotion to his own humanitarian philosophy. Through disappointment in the French he turned to the German nation as the instrument of fulfilling it. These lectures, entitled the \"Addresses to the German Nation\", coincided with a period of reform in the Prussian government, under the chancellorship of Baron vom Stein. The \"Addresses\" display Fichte's interest during that period in language and culture as vehicles of human spiritual development. Fichte built upon the earlier ideas of Johann Gottfried Herder and attempted to unite them with his more systematic approach. The aim of the German nation, according to Fichte, was to \"found an empire of spirit and reason, and to annihilate completely the crude physical force that rules of the world.\" Like Herder's German nationalism, Fichte's was wholly cultural, and grounded in the aesthetic, literary, and moral.\n\nThe nationalism propounded by Fichte in the \"Addresses\" would be appealed to over a century later by the Nazi Party in Germany, which sought in Fichte a forerunner to its own nationalist ideology. Like Nietzsche, the association of Fichte with the Nazi regime came to colour readings of Fichte's German nationalism in the post-war period. This reading of Fichte was often bolstered through reference to an unpublished letter from 1793, \"Contributions to the Correction of the Public's Judgment concerning the French Revolution\", wherein Fichte expressed anti-semitic sentiments, such as arguing against extending civil rights to Jews and calling them a \"state within a state\" that could \"undermine\" the German nation.<ref name=\"Gesamtausgabe I/1 pp. 292\">\"Gesamtausgabe\", I/1, pp. 292–293</ref> However, attached to the letter is a footnote in which Fichte provides an impassioned plea for permitting Jews to practice their religion without hindrance. Furthermore, the final act of Fichte's academic career was to resign as rector of Humboldt University in protest when his colleagues refused to punish the harassment of Jewish students. While recent scholarship has sought to dissociate Fichte's writings on nationalism with his adoption by the Nazi Party, the association continues to blight his legacy, although Fichte, as if to exclude all ground of doubt, clearly and distinctly prohibits — in his reworked version of \"The Science of Ethics as Based on the Science of Knowledge\" (see § Final period in Berlin) — genocide and other crimes against humanity:\n\nFichte argued that \"active citizenship, civic freedom and even property rights should be withheld from women, whose calling was to subject themselves utterly to the authority of their fathers and husbands.\"\n\nFichte gave a wide range of public and private lectures in Berlin from the last decade of his life. These form some of his best known work, and are the basis of a revived German-speaking scholarly interest in his work.\n\nThe lectures include two works from 1806. In \"The Characteristics of the Present Age\" (\"Die Grundzüge des gegenwärtigen Zeitalters\"), Fichte outlines his theory of different historical and cultural epochs. His mystic work \"The Way Towards the Blessed Life\" (\"Die Anweisung zum seligen Leben oder auch die Religionslehre\") gave his fullest thoughts on religion. In 1808 he gave a series of speeches in French-occupied Berlin, \"Addresses to the German Nation\".\n\nIn 1810, the new University of Berlin was set up, designed along lines put forward by Wilhelm von Humboldt. Fichte was made its rector and also the first Chair of Philosophy. This was in part because of educational themes in the \"Addresses\", and in part because of his earlier work at Jena University.\n\nFichte lectured on further versions of his \"Wissenschaftslehre\". Of these, he only published a brief work from 1810, \"The Science of Knowledge in its General Outline\" (\"Die Wissenschaftslehre, in ihrem allgemeinen Umrisse dargestellt\"; also translated as \"Outline of the Doctrine of Knowledge\"). His son published some of these thirty years after his death.\n\nMost only became public in the last decades of the twentieth century, in his collected works. This included reworked versions of the \"Doctrine of Science\" (\"Wissenschaftslehre\", 1810–1813), \"The Science of Rights\" (\"Das System der Rechtslehre\", 1812), and \"The Science of Ethics as Based on the Science of Knowledge\" (\"Das System der Sittenlehre nach den Principien der Wissenschaftslehre\", 1812; 1st ed. 1798).\n\n\n\n\nThe new standard edition of Fichte's works in German, which supersedes all previous editions, is the \"Gesamtausgabe\" (\"Collected Works\" or \"Complete Edition\", commonly abbreviated as \"GA\"), prepared by the Bavarian Academy of Sciences: \"Gesamtausgabe der Bayerischen Akademie der Wissenschaften\", 42 volumes, edited by , Hans Gliwitzky, Erich Fuchs and Peter Schneider, Stuttgart-Bad Cannstatt: Frommann-Holzboog, 1962–2012.\n\nIt is organized into four parts:\n\nFichte's works are quoted and cited from \"GA\", followed by a combination of Roman and Arabic numbers, indicating the series and volume, respectively, and the page number(s).\n\nAnother edition is \"Johann Gottlieb Fichtes sämmtliche Werke\" (abbrev. \"SW\"), ed. I. H. Fichte. Berlin: de Gruyter, 1971.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4503296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4503296", "title": "Karin Knorr Cetina", "text": "Karin Knorr Cetina\n\nKarin Knorr Cetina (also Karin Knorr-Cetina) (born 19 July 1944 in Graz, Austria) is an Austrian sociologist well known for her work on epistemology and social constructionism, summarized in the books \"The Manufacture of Knowledge: An Essay on the Constructivist and Contextual Nature of Science\" (1981) and \"Epistemic Cultures: How the Sciences Make Knowledge\" (1999). Currently, she focuses on the study of global microstructures and Social studies of finance. Knorr Cetina is the\nOtto Borchert Distinguished Service Professor (Jointly Appointed in Anthropology) and Chair of the Department of Sociology at the University of Chicago.\n\nA \"knowledge object\" is a theoretical concept introduced by Knorr Cetina to describe the emergence of post-social relations in epistemic cultures. Knowledge objects are different from everyday things and are defined as unfolding structures that are non-identical with themselves; Jyri Engeström based the concept of social objects on this concept.\n\nKnorr-Cetina studied at the University of Vienna, receiving a Ph.D. in Cultural Anthropology (with a minor in sociology) in 1971. Her dissertation research focused on the structural analysis of oral literature. She shifted her focus toward sociology as she found that cultural anthropology at the time was too focused on historical concerns, while she was more interested in contemporary social phenomena. Following the completion of her doctorate, Knorr-Cetina went to the Institute for Advanced Studies in Vienna, where many influential sociologists were invited to give presentations. This resulted in a Post-doctoral diploma in sociology, and an appointment as an instructor in anthropology at the University of Vienna from 1972–73, and then in sociology from 1973-76. During this time, Knorr-Cetina engaged in her first empirical investigations of science leading the 1975 publication (with Hermann Strasser and Hans Georg Zilian) \"Determinants and Controls of Scientific Development\". It was also during these years that she first encountered the work of the ethnomethodologically-inclined sociologist Aaron Cicourel, specifically \"Method and measurement in sociology.\"\n\nFrom 1976-77, Knorr-Cetina received a Ford Foundation Fellowship to study at the Institute for the Study of Social Change at the University of California, Berkeley. Shortly before her arrival in California, the French philosopher-turned-sociologist Bruno Latour and British sociologist Steven Woolgar began their well known \"laboratory studies\" at the Salk Institute in southern California. Korr-Cetina's work at Berkeley ultimately contributed to this network of laboratory studies in the late 1970s, which would eventually become the field of the Social Studies of Science and Technology. The empirical research conducted while at Berkeley also became her widely-cited 1981 publication \"The Manufacture of Knowledge: An Essay on the Constructivist and Contextual Nature of Science\". Knorr-Cetina also received her Habilitation in sociology at the University of Bielefeld in 1981, and served as Professor of Sociology at Bielefeld from 1983 to 2001. Her work in the social studies of science during these years culminated in her widely-cited book \"Epistemic Cultures: How the Sciences Make Knowledge,\" published in 1999.\n\nKnorr-Cetina's progression to understanding how technology mediates sociality led her to select global financial markets as a new \"laboratory\" to study knowledge in society. The first suggestion of this new field site was in the article \"Sociality with objects: Social relations in postsocial knowledge societies\" (1997), followed later by a conference on \"The Status of the Object in Social Science\" at Brunel University in September 1999. The paper she presented at this conference, entitled \"The Market as an Object of Attachment: Exploring Postsocial Relations in Financial Markets\", was later published in 2000. Her co-author was Urs Bruegger, a former foreign exchange dealer. The two collaborated on over a dozen articles on global financial markets.\n\nWith the turn of the century, Knorr Cetina became interested in global financial markets as an object of study. From early work with Urs Bruegger, we see this developing into a strong research interest. This work is enhanced by the application of tools from science studies and the sociology of knowledge, for example, imagining \"the market\" as an object of attachment for traders or using market infrastructure (e.g. Bloomberg terminals) to see the microconstruction of the global market in the space of the local. The financial market infrastructure also comprises a \"global scopic system\" that integrates news and information across the world.\n\nKnorr Cetina’s lecture “The Synthetic Situation: Interactionism for a Global World” from 2008 is vital in rethinking past assumptions about communication and interaction order previously published by sociologists, namely Erving Goffman. In the lecture, which was eventually published in 2009, Knorr Cetina introduces and explains new concepts regarding global interaction. Although Goffman is widely published and read in these areas, much has changed since his day and Knorr Cetina conceptualized such changes.\n\nThe introduction of the “synthetic situation” is arguably one of her most important new concepts. It is defined as a situation that “…invariably includes, and may in fact be entirely constituted by, on-screen projections…”. A synthetic situation, therefore, can manifest in many ways, both informal and formal. Examples include an online video chat, playing video games against others on the Internet or even a business deal done via videoconference. This idea can be seen as a result of the advancement in technology in recent years, and adds a new dimension to Goffman’s social situation where face-to-face interaction is required. Knorr Cetina explains the difference of the two situations by the use of surgery. A Goffmanian situation occurs when there is just the surgeon and the patient. A synthetic situation arises, however, when the surgeon uses technology like a scope and a screen in order to accomplish the task at hand. Without looking at the patient through the screen, the job would not be able to be done and would remain a face-to-face, social situation.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41701207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41701207", "title": "Kidult", "text": "Kidult\n\nThe portmanteau coinages kidult, rejuvenile, adultescent refer to adults with interests traditionally seen as suitable for children.\n\nIt can also have other meanings, such as a parent who enjoys being a parent due to spending quality time with their children, but is not willing to accept their more authoritarian role/responsibilities as parent. An example is Robin Williams' character in \"Mrs. Doubtfire\", a father who has fun with his children but is a poor disciplinarian and is seen by his wife as an irresponsible head of the household.\n\nIn the past, psychology recognized the concept of \"puer aeternus\", or \"eternal boy\". Today, often called \"Peter Pan syndrome\", it means a person remaining emotionally at that of a teenager or even a child. It is derived from the traditional archetypal \"eternal boy\", Peter Pan.\n\nOne of the most well-known and extreme cases of Peter Pan syndrome and the kidult mentality is Michael Jackson. Michael explicitly stated that he did not want to grow up and he owned an impressive collection of arcade video games, toy cars and fantasy and sci-fi memorabilia.\n\nIn the early 21st century, there was reporting that for an adult to have interests traditionally expected only from children is not necessarily an anomaly. The entertainment industry was quick to recognize the trend, and introduced a special category, \"kidult\", of things marketable for kids and adults alike. Enormous successes of films such as \"Shrek\" and \"Harry Potter\", of books traditionally targeted for teenagers and the fact that Disneyland is among the world's top adult (without kids) vacation destinations seem to indicate that \"kidulthood\" is a rather mainstream phenomenon. And unlike \"puer aeternus\", \"rejuveniles\" successfully marry adult responsibilities with non-adult interests. When Christopher Noxon appeared on \"The Colbert Report\" on June 29, 2006, he remarked that \"There's a big difference between childish and childlike\".\n\nKaren Brooks explores what she calls the \"commodification of youth\": entertainers sell \"the teen spirit\" to adults who in the past were called \"young at heart\".\n\nIn South Korea, the buzzword \"kideolteu\" was used in 2015, highlighting the market trend of increasing toy sales (such as drones and \"electric wheels\") to kidults.\n"}
{"id": "52756707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52756707", "title": "Limitarianism (ethical)", "text": "Limitarianism (ethical)\n\nEthical limitarianism is an ethical theory relating to priorities of intervention where need or risk might be evident. As the principle of distributive justice advanced by Ingrid Robeyns, limitarianism states that it is morally impermissible to be (excessively) rich (i.e. have more economic resources than a certain level).\n\nEthical limitarianism\n\nEthical limitarianism is an ethical theory which (1) tries to be a partial account of distributive justice, (2) which belongs within the realms of politics rather than morality, (3) which is conceived and developed at the level of non-ideal theory, (4) which relies on an instrumental justification. It is related to effective altruism.\n\nDemocratic Limitarianism\n\nDemocratic Limitarianism is a political theory that governments have priority duties to \ntheir citizenry to protect from risk and to ensure independence from fear, and thereby it urges that government prioritize protecting its citizens against fear of death or injury from: \nA political movement advocates this prioritization.\n\nThe ethical limitarianism of Ingrid Robeyns would contrast with this view of democratic limitarianism.\n\nEthical limitarianism is not to be confused with Christian theological limitarianism, which teaches that Christ's atonement applies only to the elect (as Calvinism), and not to all humanity (as Christian universalism taught), or of limited atonement and irresistible grace as St. Augustine had taught.\n\n"}
{"id": "37006986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37006986", "title": "Logical cube", "text": "Logical cube\n\nIn the system of Aristotelian logic, the logical cube is a diagram representing the different ways in which each of the eight propositions of the system is logically related ('opposed') to each of the others. The system is also useful in the analysis of syllogistic logic, serving to identify the allowed logical conversions from one type to another.\n\n"}
{"id": "21411022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21411022", "title": "Lunar cycler", "text": "Lunar cycler\n\nA Lunar cycler or Earth–Moon cycler is an orbit, or spacecraft therein, which periodically passes close by the Earth and the Moon, using gravity assists and occasional propellant-powered corrections to maintain its trajectories between the two. If the fuel required to reach a particular cycler orbit from both the Earth and the Moon is modest, and the travel time between the two along the cycler is reasonable, then having a spacecraft in the cycler can provide an efficient and regular method for space transportation.\n\nBuzz Aldrin first suggested the use of cycler orbits in 1985 for the life support equipment and logistical supplies necessary for extensive manned exploration of the Moon and Mars. He also presented his thoughts on the benefits of using cycler spacecraft at the Space 88 Symposium in Albuquerque during a panel discussion on \"Approaching the Construction Problems in Space.\" These trajectories must have the characteristic that they can be easily targeted for either launch or destination planet and that the times between encounters yield a reasonable stay time on the destination and provide for both routine and emergency return on a fairly regular basis.\n\nOne of the challenges for NASA's Interstellar Boundary Explorer (IBEX) satellite was to find a stable orbit in cislunar space, a region from outside the Earth's atmosphere to just beyond the Moon's orbit. The orbit in which the satellite was originally set could only be reliably predicted for about 3 years. Within cislunar space small changes in initial conditions could lead to very different trajectories years later. Because IBEX's original orbit was often closer to the Moon than the Earth, it was regularly performing gravity assists. The uncertainties in the initial orbit conditions would cause nearly identical trajectory predictions to eventually experience different gravity assist geometries, and the slightest change in that geometry during the encounter would cause huge differences in the subsequent satellite trajectory. Some predictions would hit the Earth and others would escape the Earth–Moon system. The new orbit keeps the apogee away from the Moon, reducing its sensitivity to gravity assists. IBEX can now predict this trajectory well beyond 11 years, allowing the satellite to easily observe the Sun's full solar cycle.\n\n"}
{"id": "484758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=484758", "title": "Léon Teisserenc de Bort", "text": "Léon Teisserenc de Bort\n\nLéon Philippe Teisserenc de Bort (5 November 1855 in Paris, France – 2 January 1913 in Cannes, France) was a French meteorologist and a pioneer in the field of aerology. Together with Richard Assmann (1845-1918), he is credited as co-discoverer of the stratosphere, as both men announced their discovery during the same time period in 1902. \nTeisserenc de Bort pioneered the use of unmanned instrumented balloons and was the first to identify the region in the atmosphere around 8-17 kilometers of height where the lapse rate reaches zero, known today as the tropopause.\n\nHe was the son of an engineer. He began his scientific career in 1880, when he entered the meteorological department of the Bureau Central Météorologique (Administrative Center of National Meteorology, a department of the French government) in Paris under E. E. N. Mascart. In 1883, 1885 and 1887 he made journeys to North Africa to study geology and terrestrial magnetism, and during this, period published some important charts of the distribution of pressure at a height of 4,000 metres. Between 1892 and 1896, Teisserenc de Bort was chief meteorologist to the Bureau.\n\nAfter his resignation from the Bureau in 1896, he established a private meteorological observatory in Trappes near Versailles. There he carried out investigations on clouds and the problems of the upper air. He conducted experiments with high-flying instrumented hydrogen balloons and was one of the first people to use such devices.\n\nIn 1898, Teisserenc de Bort published an important paper in \"Comptes Rendus\" detailing his researches by means of balloons into the constitution of the atmosphere. He noticed that while the air temperature decreased steadily up to approximately 11 kilometers of height, it remained constant above that altitude (up to the highest points he could reach). In other words, he discovered an indication of a temperature inversion or at least of a zero lapse rate above this altitude. For many years he was uncertain whether he discovered a true physical phenomenon or whether his measurements suffered from a systematic bias (indeed, the first measurements \"did\" have a positive temperature bias as the instruments were liable to radiative heating by solar radiation). That is why Teisserenc de Bort carried out 200+ more balloon experiments (with a substantial part of them being held during the night to eliminate radiative heating) until 1902, when he suggested that the atmosphere was divided into two layers.\n\nDuring the years that followed, he named the two layers of the atmosphere known as the \"troposphere\" and the \"stratosphere\". This naming convention has since been maintained, with (higher-altitude) layers that were subsequently discovered being given names of this sort. After Teisserenc de Bort's death in 1913, the heirs donated the observatory to the state so that the research tasks could be continued.\n\nHe also carried out investigations in Sweden and over the Zuider Zee, the Mediterranean and the tropical region of the Atlantic, and fitted out a special vessel in order to study the currents above the trade winds. He was elected a fellow of the Royal Meteorological Society in 1903, honorary member in 1909, and was awarded the Symons Gold Medal of the Society in 1908. He collaborated with Hugo Hildebrandsson in \"Les bases de la météorologie dynamique\" (1907).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20546286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20546286", "title": "Maya social classes", "text": "Maya social classes\n\nAncient Mayan social classes included a complex relationship between elites, including kings and merchants, and commoners. The highest ancient Mayan social class included a single centralized leader known as the king or \"K'uhul ajaw,\" who was most often a man but occasionally a woman. The king's power derived from two main sources, including religion and control over resources, and this power was reinforced by other elites, including merchants. This faction of ancient Mayan social classes arose when some individuals gained greater access to resources than others, increased internal and external trade, and specialized within the manufacturing and selling of goods. This influx of wealth for subsections of the ancient Mayan population further subdivided the upper and lower classes, and wealth became a source of power for the elites.\n\nClassic Mayan material culture may provide possible indicators of social stratification within Classic Mayan society. Aspects of housing structure remains, such as the type of building material used during construction and the absence or presence of decoration on the outside on the structure, may indicate the occupant's social standing. For example, the remains of a highly decorated stone structure suggest the occupants had a higher social status than the occupants of a non-decorated thatch structure. Furthermore, smaller aspects of material culture such as pottery found within structural remains provide insight into social status. A greater variety of pottery associated with ritualistic feasting is more commonly found in superstructures, which may suggest elites had better access to protein sources than non-elites. Imported pottery fragments are more commonly found in superstructures than in typical housing structures, suggesting that the Classic Mayan elite had greater access to imported products than commoners.\n\nBurial placement and type also held great importance in Classic Mayan society. As deceased individuals were often buried under or near their homes, house construction further indicates social status. Additionally, other burial details, such as the type of burial and associated burial goods provide information about status. Wright and Vásquez (2017) initially classify Classic Mayan burials into commoner and elite burials, which may be further subdivided into simple graves and simple crypts for commoners, and elaborate crypts and underground chambers for members of the elite. The presence and type of artifacts uncovered within the burial, which are referred to as grave goods, may also indicate social status and other things.\n\nPhysical remains of Mayan individuals from the Classic period may also include indicators of social standing. Nutritional diseases during life are recorded in an individual's bones, and their presence and severity differs based on access to resources, which is also related to social standing. Such nutritional diseases include dental caries or cavities in an individual's teeth. Cavities form when bacteria in the mouth metabolize sugars from carbohydrates and demineralize the enamel of a tooth. An individual with an easily accessible carbohydrate-rich diet will be more likely to have more cavities. Using burial location as a proxy for social status, Cucina and Tiesler (2003) found that cavities were more common in elite Classic Mayan individuals than non-elite individuals. They also found that there were more cavities in elite females than elite males, suggesting there may have been an additional barrier to resource access based on sex, although this difference may also highlight the role of estrogen in cavity formation. However, Cucina and Tiesler (2003) did not find a meaningful difference in the number of cavities found in non-elite males and females, providing counter evidence to this argument. Due to the more complete preservation of elite skeletal remains than non-elite skeletal remains based on burial practices, it can be difficult to represent non-elite individuals who compromised 90% of ancient Mayan society.\n"}
{"id": "46744814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46744814", "title": "National Association of Testing Authorities", "text": "National Association of Testing Authorities\n\nThe National Association of Testing Authorities, Australia (NATA) was established in 1947 in response to a call for the formation of a national testing services body to ensure the munitions which the government was manufacturing during the Second World War met a sufficiently high standard. \n\nNATA is a private not-for-profit company, governed by a Board that has representation from its members, and from industry, government and professional bodies.\n\nIn 1988, NATA's role as an accreditation body was recognised by the Australian Government in a Memorandum of Understanding which was renewed in 2014.\n\nIts head office is situated in Rhodes, New South Wales and it has offices in four other capital cities of Australia. It employs 180 staff and over three thousand volunteer technical experts who assist NATA in the assessment of facilities and on its various technical committees.\n\nNATA provides accreditation services to inspection bodies and producers of certified reference materials. It offers both \"traditional\" testing programs and \"specialised\" programs in areas such as medical and veterinary testing, forensic science, medical imaging, reference material production and proficiency testing.\n\nNATA monitors members' compliance with the OECD Principles of Good Laboratory Practice (GLP).\nNATA formally recognises whether facilities produce reliable technical results.\n\nNATA represents Australia in a number of high-level International fora related to laboratory, inspection body, reference material producer and proficiency testing service provider accreditation practices and policies.\n\nNATA represents Australia through:\n\n"}
{"id": "21815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21815", "title": "Noble Eightfold Path", "text": "Noble Eightfold Path\n\nThe Noble Eightfold Path (Pali: ; Sanskrit: ) is an early summary of the path of Buddhist practices leading to liberation from samsara, the painful cycle of rebirth.\n\nThe Eightfold Path consists of eight practices: right view, right resolve, right speech, right conduct, right livelihood, right effort, right mindfulness, and right \"samadhi\" ('meditative absorption or union'). In early Buddhism, these practices started with understanding that the body-mind works in a corrupted way (right view), followed by entering the Buddhist path of self-observance, self-restraint, and cultivating kindness and compassion; and culminating in \"dhyana\" or \"samadhi\", which re-inforces these practices for the development of the body-mind. In later Buddhism, insight (\"Prajñā\") became the central soteriological instrument, leading to a different concept and structure of the path, in which the \"goal\" of the Buddhist path came to be specified as ending ignorance and rebirth.\n\nThe Noble Eightfold Path is one of the principal teachings of Theravada Buddhism, taught to lead to \"Arhatship\". In the Theravada tradition, this path is also summarized as \"sila\" (morality), \"samadhi\" (meditation) and \"prajna\" (insight). In Mahayana Buddhism, this path is contrasted with the Bodhisattva path, which is believed to go beyond \"Arahatship\" to full Buddhahood.\n\nIn Buddhist symbolism, the Noble Eightfold Path is often represented by means of the dharma wheel (dharmachakra), in which its eight spokes represent the eight elements of the path.\n\nThe Pali term \"\" () is typically translated in English as \"Noble Eightfold Path\". This translation is a convention started by the early translators of Buddhist texts into English, just like \"ariya sacca\" is translated as Four Noble Truths. However, the phrase does not mean the path is noble, rather that the path is ( meaning 'enlightened, noble, precious people'). The term \"maggo\" (Sanskrit: \"marga\") means \"path\", while \"aṭṭhaṅgiko\" means \"eightfold\". Thus, an alternate rendering of \"ariyo aṭṭhaṅgiko maggo\" is \"eightfold path of the noble ones\", or \"eightfold Aryan Path\".\n\nAll eight elements of the Path begin with the word \"samyañc\" (in Sanskrit) or \"sammā\" (in Pāli) which means \"right, proper, as it ought to be, best\". The Buddhist texts contrast \"samma\" with its opposite \"miccha\".\n\nAccording to Indologist Tilmann Vetter, the description of the Buddhist path may initially have been as simple as the term \"the middle way\". In time, this short description was elaborated, resulting in the description of the eightfold path. Tilmann Vetter and historian Rod Bucknell both note that longer descriptions of \"the path\" can be found in the early texts, which can be condensed into the eightfold path.\n\nThe eight Buddhist practices in the Noble Eightfold Path are:\n\nFollowing the Noble Eightfold Path leads to liberation in the form of nirvana:\nThe Noble Eightfold Path is sometimes divided into three basic divisions, as follows:\nThis order is a later development, when discriminating insight (\"prajna\") became central to Buddhist soteriology, and came to be regarded as the culmination of the Buddhist path. Yet, Majjhima Nikaya 117, \"Mahācattārīsaka Sutta\", describes the first seven practices as requisites for right samadhi. According to Vetter, this may have been the original soteriological practice in early Buddhism.\n\n\"Moral virtues\" (Sanskrit: \"śīla\", Pāli: \"sīla\") group consists of three paths: right speech, right action and right livelihood. The word \"śīla\" though translated by English writers as linked to \"morals or ethics\", states Bhikkhu Bodhi, is in ancient and medieval Buddhist commentary tradition closer to the concept of discipline and disposition that \"leads to harmony at several levels – social, psychological, karmic and contemplative\". Such harmony creates an environment to pursue the meditative steps in the Noble Eightfold Path by reducing social disorder, preventing inner conflict that result from transgressions, favoring future karma-triggered movement through better rebirths, and purifying the mind.\n\nThe meditation group (\"samadhi\") of the path progresses from moral restraints to training the mind. Right effort and mindfulness calm the mind-body complex, releasing unwholesome states and habitual patterns and encouraging the development of wholesome states and non-automatic responses, the \"bojjhagā\" (seven factors of awakening). The practice of \"dhyana\" reinforces these developments, leading to \"upekkha\" (equanimity) and mindfulness. According to the Theravada commentarial tradition and the contemporary Vipassana movement, the goal in this group of the Noble Eightfold Path is to develop clarity and insight into the nature of reality – \"dukkha\", \"anicca\" and \"anatta\", discard negative states and dispel \"avidya\" (ignorance), ultimately attaining \"nirvana\".\n\nIn the threefold division, \"prajna\" (insight, wisdom) is presented as the culmination of the path, whereas in the eightfold division the path starts with correct knowledge or insight, which is needed to understand why this path should be followed.\n\nIn the \"Mahācattārīsaka Sutta\" which appears in the Chinese and Pali canons, the Buddha explains that cultivation of the noble eightfold path of a learner leads to the development of two further paths of the Arahants, which are right knowledge, or insight (\"sammā-ñāṇa\"), and right liberation, or release (\"sammā-vimutti\"). These two factors fall under the category of wisdom (\"paññā\").\n\nThe Noble Eightfold Path, in the Buddhist traditions, is the direct means to nirvana and brings a release from the cycle of life and death in the realms of samsara.\n\n\"Right view\" (' / ') or \"right understanding\" explicates that our actions have consequences, that death is not the end, that our actions and beliefs also have consequences after death, and that the Buddha followed and taught a successful path out of this world and the other world (heaven and underworld or hell). Majjhima Nikaya 117, \"Mahācattārīsaka Sutta\", a text from the Pāli Canon, describes the first seven practices as requisites of right samadhi, starting with right view:\nLater on, right view came to explicitly include \"karma\" and rebirth, and the importance of the Four Noble Truths, when \"insight\" became central to Buddhist soteriology. This presentation of right view still plays an essential role in Theravada Buddhism.\n\nThe purpose of right view is to clear one's path from confusion, misunderstanding, and deluded thinking. It is a means to gain right understanding of reality. In the interpretation of some Buddhist movements, state Religion Studies scholar George Chryssides and author Margaret Wilkins, right view is non-view: as the enlightened become aware that nothing can be expressed in fixed conceptual terms and rigid, dogmatic clinging to concepts is discarded.\n\nRight View can be further subdivided, states translator Bhikkhu Bodhi, into mundane right view and superior or supramundane right view:\n\nAccording to Theravada Buddhism, mundane right view is a teaching that is suitable for lay followers, while supramundane right view, which requires a deeper understanding, is suitable for monastics. Mundane and supramundane right view involve accepting the following doctrines of Buddhism:\n\nRight resolve (\"samyak-saṃkalpa\" / \"sammā saṅkappa\") can also be known as \"right thought\", \"right intention\", or \"right aspiration\". In this factor, the practitioner resolves to leave home, renounce the worldly life and dedicate himself to an ascetic pursuit. In section III.248, the Majjhima Nikaya states,\nLike right view, this factor has two levels. At the mundane level, the resolve includes being harmless (ahimsa) and refraining from ill will (\"avyabadha\") to any being, as this accrues karma and leads to rebirth. At the supramundane level, the factor includes a resolve to consider everything and everyone as impermanent, a source of suffering and without a Self.\n\nRight speech (\"samyag-vāc\" / \"sammā-vācā\") in most Buddhist texts is presented as four abstentions, such as in the Pali Canon thus:\nInstead of the usual \"abstention and refraining from wrong\" terminology, a few texts such as the Samaññaphala Sutta and Kevata Sutta in \"Digha Nikaya\" explain this virtue in an active sense, after stating it in the form of an abstention. For example, Samaññaphala Sutta states that a part of a monk's virtue is that \"he abstains from false speech. He speaks the truth, holds to the truth, is firm, reliable, no deceiver of the world.\" Similarly, the virtue of abstaining from divisive speech is explained as delighting in creating concord. The virtue of abstaining from abusive speech is explained in this Sutta to include affectionate and polite speech that is pleasing to people. The virtue of abstaining from idle chatter is explained as speaking what is connected with the Dhamma goal of his liberation.\n\nIn the \"Abhaya-raja-kumara Sutta\", the Buddha explains the virtue of right speech in different scenarios, based on its truth value, utility value and emotive content. The \"Tathagata\", states Abhaya Sutta, never speaks anything that is unfactual or factual, untrue or true, disagreeable or agreeable, if that is unbeneficial and unconnected to his goals. Further, adds Abhaya Sutta, the \"Tathagata\" speaks the factual, the true, if in case it is disagreeable and unendearing, only if it is beneficial to his goals, but with a sense of proper time. Additionally, adds Abhaya Sutta, the \"Tathagata\", only speaks with a sense of proper time even when what he speaks is the factual, the true, the agreeable, the endearing and what is beneficial to his goals.\n\nThe Buddha thus explains right speech in the Pali Canon, according to Ganeri, as never speaking something that is not beneficial; and, only speaking what is true and beneficial, \"when the circumstances are right, whether they are welcome or not\".\n\nRight action (\"samyak-karmānta\" / \"sammā-kammanta\") is like right speech, expressed as abstentions but in terms of bodily action. In the Pali Canon, this path factor is stated as:\nThe prohibition on killing precept in Buddhist scriptures applies to all living beings, states Christopher Gowans, not just human beings. Bhikkhu Bodhi agrees, clarifying that the more accurate rendering of the Pali canon is a prohibition on \"taking life of any sentient being\", which includes human beings, animals, birds, insects but excludes plants because they are not considered sentient beings. Further, adds Bodhi, this precept refers to \"intentional\" killing, as well as any form of intentional harming or torturing any sentient being. This moral virtue in early Buddhist texts, both in context of harm or killing of animals and human beings, is similar to \"ahimsa\" precepts found in the texts particularly of Jainism as well as of Hinduism, and has been a subject of significant debate in various Buddhist traditions.\n\nThe prohibition on stealing in the Pali Canon is an abstention from intentionally taking what is not voluntarily offered by the person to whom that property belongs. This includes, states Bhikkhu Bodhi, taking by stealth, by force, by fraud or by deceit. Both the intention and the act matters, as this precept is grounded on the impact on one's karma.\n\nThe prohibition on sexual misconduct in the Noble Eightfold Path, states Tilmann Vetter, refers to \"not performing sexual acts\". This virtue is more generically explained in the \"Cunda Kammaraputta Sutta\", which teaches that one must abstain from all sensual misconduct, including getting sexually involved with someone unmarried (anyone protected by parents or by guardians or by siblings), and someone married (protected by husband), and someone betrothed to another person, and female convicts or by \"dhamma\".\n\nFor monastics, the abstention from sensual misconduct means strict celibacy, states Christopher Gowans, while for lay Buddhists this prohibits adultery as well as other forms of sensual misconduct. Later Buddhist texts, states Bhikkhu Bodhi, state that the prohibition on sexual conduct for lay Buddhists includes any sexual involvement with someone married, a girl or woman protected by her parents or relatives, and someone prohibited by \"dhamma\" conventions (such as relatives, nuns and others).\n\nRight livelihood (\"samyag-ājīva\" / \"sammā-ājīva\") precept is mentioned in many early Buddhist texts, such as the \"Mahācattārīsaka Sutta\" in \"Majjhima Nikaya\" as follows:\nThe early canonical texts state right livelihood as avoiding and abstaining from wrong livelihood. This virtue is further explained in Buddhist texts, states Vetter, as \"living from begging, but not accepting everything and not possessing more than is strictly necessary\". For lay Buddhists, states Harvey, this precept requires that the livelihood avoid causing suffering to sentient beings by cheating them, or harming or killing them in any way.\n\nThe Anguttara Nikaya III.208, states Harvey, asserts that the right livelihood does not trade in weapons, living beings, meat, alcoholic drink or poison. The same text, in section V.177, asserts that this applies to lay Buddhists. This has meant, states Harvey, that raising and trading cattle livestock for slaughter is a breach of \"right livelihood\" precept in the Buddhist tradition, and Buddhist countries lack the mass slaughter houses found in Western countries.\n\nRight effort (\"samyag-vyāyāma\" / \"sammā-vāyāma\") is preventing the arising of unwholesome states, and the generation of wholesome states. This includes \"indriya-samvara\", \"guarding the sense-doors,\" restraint of the sense faculties. Right effort presented in the Pali Canon, such as the \"Sacca-vibhanga Sutta\" as follows:\nThe unwholesome states (\"akusala\") are described in the Buddhist texts, as those relating to thoughts, emotions, intentions, and these include \"pancanivarana\" (five hindrances) – sensual thoughts, doubts about the path, restlessness, drowsiness, and ill will of any kind. Of these, the Buddhist traditions consider sensual thoughts and ill will needing more right effort. Sensual desire that must be eliminated by effort includes anything related to sights, sounds, smells, tastes and touch. This is to be done by restraint of the sense faculties (\"indriya-samvara\"). Ill will that must be eliminated by effort includes any form of aversion including hatred, anger, resentment towards anything or anyone.\n\nIn the vipassana movement, mindfulness (\"\" / \"sammā-sati\") is interpreted as \"bare attention\": never be absent minded, being conscious of what one is doing. Yet, originally it has the meaning of \"retention,\" being mindfull of the \"dhammas\" (\"teachings,\" \"elements\") that are beneficial to the Buddhist path. According to Frauwallner, mindfulness was a means to prevent the arising of craving, which resulted simply from contact between the senses and their objects. According to Frauwallner this may have been the Buddha's original idea. According to Trainor, mindfulness aids one not to crave and cling to any transitory state or thing, by complete and constant awareness of phenomena as impermanent, suffering and without self. \n\nThe \"Satipatthana Sutta\" describes the contemplation of four domains, namely body, feelings, mind and phenomena. The \"Satipatthana Sutta\" is regarded by the Vipassana movement as the quintessential text on Buddhist meditation, taking ques from it on \"bare attention\" and the contemplation on the observed phenomena as \"dukkha\", \"anatta\" and \"anicca\". According to Grzegorz Polak, the four \"upassanā\" have been misunderstood by the developing Buddhist tradition, including Theravada, to refer to four different foundations. According to Polak, the four \"upassanā\" do not refer to four different foundations of which one should be aware, but are an alternate description of the \"jhanas\", describing how the \"samskharas\" are tranquilized:\n\nRupert Gethin notes that the contemporary Vipassana movement interprets the \"Satipatthana Sutta\" as \"describing a pure form of insight (vipassanā) meditation\" for which \"samatha\" (calm) and \"jhāna\" are not necessary. Yet, in pre-sectarian Buddhism, the establishment of mindfulness was placed before the practice of the \"jhanas\", and associated with the abandonment of the five hindrances and the entry into the first \"jhana\".\n\nThe \"dhyāna\"-scheme describes mindfulness also as appearing in the third and fourth \"dhyana\", after initial concentration of the mind. Gombrich and Wynne note that, while the second \"jhana\" denotes a state of absorption, in the third and fourth \"jhana\" one comes out of this absorption, being mindfully awareness of objects while being indifferent to them. According to Gombrich, \"the later tradition has falsified the jhana by classifying them as the quintessence of the concentrated, calming kind of meditation, ignoring the other – and indeed higher – element.\n\n\"Samadhi\" (\"samyak-samādhi\" / \"sammā-samādhi\") is a common practice in Indian religions. The term \"samadhi\" derives from the root sam-a-dha, which means 'to collect' or 'bring together', and thus it is often translated as 'concentration' or 'unification of mind'. In the early Buddhist texts, samadhi is also associated with the term \"samatha\" (calm abiding). In the suttas, samadhi is defined as one-pointedness of mind (\"Cittass'ekaggatā\"). Buddhagosa defines samadhi as \"the centering of consciousness and consciousness concomitants evenly and rightly on a single object...the state in virtue of which consciousness and its concomitants remain evenly and rightly on a single object, undistracted and unscattered.\"\n\nAccording to Bhikkhu Bodhi, the right concentration factor is reaching a one-pointedness of mind and unifying all mental factors, but it is not the same as \"a gourmet sitting down to a meal, or a soldier on the battlefield\" who also experience one-pointed concentration. The difference is that the latter have a one-pointed object in focus with complete awareness directed to that object – the meal or the target, respectively. In contrast, right concentration meditative factor in Buddhism is a state of awareness without any object or subject, and ultimately unto nothingness and emptiness.\n\nBronkhorst notes that neither the Four Noble Truths nor the Noble Eightfold Path discourse provide details of right \"samadhi\". The explanation is to be found in the Canonical texts of Buddhism, in several \"Suttas\", such as the following in \"Saccavibhanga Sutta\":\n\nBronkhorst has questioned the historicity and chronology of the description of the four \"jhanas\". Bronkhorst states that this path may be similar to what the Buddha taught, but the details and the form of the description of the \"jhanas\" in particular, and possibly other factors, is likely the work of later scholasticism. Bronkhorst notes that description of the third \"jhana\" cannot have been formulated by the Buddha, since it includes the phrase \"Noble Ones say\", quoting earlier Buddhists, indicating it was formulated by later Buddists. It is likely that later Buddhist scholars incorporated this, then attributed the details and the path, particularly the insights at the time of liberation, to have been discovered by the Buddha.\n\nAlthough often translated as \"concentration,\" as in the limiting of the attention of the mind on one object, in the fourth \"dhyana\" \"equanimity and mindfulness remain,\" and the practice of concentration-meditation may well have been incorporated from non-Buddhist traditions. Vetter notes that \"samadhi\" consists of the four stages of dhyana meditation, but\nGombrich and Wynne note that, while the second \"jhana\" denotes a state of absorption, in the third and fourth \"jhana\" one comes out of this absorption, being mindfully awareness of objects while being indifferent to it. According to Gombrich, \"the later tradition has falsified the jhana by classifying them as the quintessence of the concentrated, calming kind of meditation, ignoring the other – and indeed higher – element.\n\nVetter notes that originally the path culminated in the practice of \"dhyana/samadhi\" as the core soteriological practice. According to the Pali and Chinese canon, the \"samadhi\" state (right concentration) is dependent on the development of preceding path factors:\nAccording to the discourses, right view, right resolve, right speech, right action, right livelihood, right effort, and right mindfulness are used as the support and requisite conditions for the practice of right concentration. Understanding of the right view is the preliminary role, and is also the forerunner of the entire Noble Eightfold Path.\n\nAccording to the modern Theravada \"bhikkhu\" (monk) and scholar Walpola Rahula, the divisions of the noble eightfold path \"are to be developed more or less simultaneously, as far as possible according to the capacity of each individual. They are all linked together and each helps the cultivation of the others.\" Bhikkhu Bodhi explains that these factors are not sequential, but components, and \"with a certain degree of progress all eight factors can be present simultaneously, each supporting the others. However, until that point is reached, some sequence in the unfolding of the path is inevitable.\"\n\nThe stage in the Path where there is no more learning in Yogachara Abhidharma, state Buswell and Gimello, is identical to \"Nirvana\" or \"Buddhahood\", the ultimate goal in Buddhism.\n\nAccording to Bernard Faure, the ancient and medieval Buddhist texts and traditions, like other religions, were almost always unfavorable or discriminatory against women, in terms of their ability to pursue Noble Eightfold Path, attain Buddhahood and nirvana. This issue of presumptions about the \"female religious experience\" is found in Indian texts, in translations into non-Indian languages, and in regional non-Indian commentaries written in East Asian kingdoms such as those in China, Japan and southeast Asia. Yet, like other Indian religions, exceptions and veneration of females is found in Indian Buddhist texts, and female Buddhist deities are likewise described in positive terms and with reverence. Nevertheless, females are seen as polluted with menstruation, sexual intercourse, death and childbirth. Rebirth as a woman is seen in the Buddhist texts as a result of part of past karma, and inferior than that of a man.\n\nIn some Chinese and Japanese Buddhist texts, the status of female deities are not presented positively, unlike the Indian tradition, states Faure. In the Huangshinu dui Jingang (\"Woman Huang explicates the Diamond Sutra\"), a woman admonishes her husband about he slaughtering animals, who attacks her gender and her past karma, implying that \"women go to hell\" not because of her intentions nor actions (kamma), but simply because of the biology of her gender and the bodily functions over which she has no choice. Similar discriminatory presumptions are found in other Buddhist texts such as the \"Blood Bowl Sutra\" and the \"Longer Sukhāvatīvyūha Sūtra\". In the Five Obstacles theory of Buddhism, a woman is required to attain rebirth as a man before she can adequately pursue the Eightfold Path and reach perfect Buddhahood. The \"Lotus Sutra\" similarly presents the story of the Dragon King's daughter, who desires to achieve perfect enlightenment. The Sutra states that, \"Her female organs vanished, the male organs became visible, then she appeared as a bodhisattva\".\n\nGender discrimination worsened during the medieval era in various sub-traditions of Buddhism that independently developed regionally, such as in Japan.\n\nSome scholars, such as Kenneth Doo Young Lee, interpret the \"Lotus Sutra\" to imply that \"women were capable of gaining salvation\", either after they first turned into a man, or being reborn in Pure Land realm after following the Path. Peter Harvey lists many \"Sutras\" that suggest \"having faded out the mind-set of a woman and developed the mind-set of a man, he was born in his present male form\", and who then proceeds to follow the Path and became an Arahant. Among Mahayana texts, there is a sutra dedicated to the concept of how a person might be born as a woman. The traditional assertion is that women are more prone to harboring feelings of greed, hatred and delusion than a man. The Buddha responds to this assumption by teaching the method of moral development through which a woman can achieve rebirth as a man.\n\nAccording to Wei-Yi Cheng, the Pali Canon is silent about women's inferior karma, but have statements and stories that mention the Eightfold Path while advocating female subordination. For example, a goddess reborn in the heavenly realm asserts:\nSuch examples, states Wei-Yi Cheng, include conflating statements about spiritual practice (Eightfold Path, Dhamma) and \"obedience to my husband\" and \"by day and by night I acted to please\", thus implying unquestioned obedience of male authority and female subjugation. Such statements are not isolated, but common, such as in section II.13 of the \"Petavatthu\" which teaches that a woman had to \"put away the thoughts of a woman\" as she pursued the Path and this merit obtained her a better rebirth; the \"Jataka\" stories of the Pali Canon have numerous such stories, as do the Chinese Sutta that assert \"undesirability of womanhood\". Modern Buddhist nuns have applied Buddhist doctrines such as Pratītyasamutpāda to explain their disagreement with women's inferior karma in past lives as implied in \"Samyutta Nikaya 13\", states Wei-Yi Cheng, while asserting that the Path can be practiced by either gender and \"both men and women can become arhant\".\n\nThe noble eightfold path has been compared to cognitive psychology, wherein states Gil Fronsdal, the right view factor can be interpreted to mean how one's mind views the world, and how that leads to patterns of thought, intention and actions. In contrast, Peter Randall states that it is the seventh factor or right mindfulness that may be thought in terms of cognitive psychology, wherein the change in thought and behavior are linked.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "178755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=178755", "title": "Nonviolence", "text": "Nonviolence\n\nNonviolence is the personal practice of being harmless to self and others under every condition. It comes from the belief that hurting people, animals or the environment is unnecessary to achieve an outcome and refers to a general philosophy of abstention from violence. This may be based on moral, religious or spiritual principles, or it may be for purely strategic or pragmatic reasons.\n\nNonviolence also has 'active' or 'activist' elements, in that believers generally accept the need for nonviolence as a means to achieve political and social change. Thus, for example, the Tolstoy and Gandhian non violence is a philosophy and strategy for social change that rejects the use of violence, but at the same time sees nonviolent action (also called civil resistance) as an alternative to passive acceptance of oppression or armed struggle against it. In general, advocates of an activist philosophy of nonviolence use diverse methods in their campaigns for social change, including critical forms of education and persuasion, mass noncooperation, civil disobedience, nonviolent direct action, and social, political, cultural and economic forms of intervention.\nIn modern times, nonviolent methods of action have been a powerful tool for social protest and revolutionary social and political change. There are many examples of their use. Fuller surveys may be found in the entries on civil resistance, nonviolent resistance and nonviolent revolution. Here certain movements particularly influenced by a philosophy of nonviolence should be mentioned, including Mahatma Gandhi leading a successful decades-long nonviolent struggle against British rule in India, Martin Luther King's and James Bevel's adoption of Gandhi's nonviolent methods in their campaigns to win civil rights for African Americans, and César Chávez's campaigns of nonviolence in the 1960s to protest the treatment of farm workers in California. The 1989 \"Velvet Revolution\" in Czechoslovakia that saw the overthrow of the Communist government is considered one of the most important of the largely nonviolent Revolutions of 1989. Most recently the nonviolent campaigns of Leymah Gbowee and the women of Liberia were able to achieve peace after a 14-year civil war. This story is captured in a 2008 documentary film \"Pray the Devil Back to Hell\". In an essay, \"To Abolish War,\" evolutionary biologist Judith Hand advocated the use of nonviolent direct action to dismantle the global war machine.\n\nThe term \"nonviolence\" is often linked with or used as a synonym for peace, and despite being frequently equated with passivity and pacifism, this is rejected by nonviolent advocates and activists. Nonviolence refers specifically to the absence of violence and is always the choice to do no harm or the least harm, and passivity is the choice to do nothing. Sometimes nonviolence is passive, and other times it isn't. For example, if a house is burning down with mice or insects in it, the most harmless appropriate action is to put the fire out, not to sit by and passively let the fire burn. There is at times confusion and contradiction written about nonviolence, harmlessness and passivity. A confused person may advocate nonviolence in a specific context while advocating violence in other contexts. For example, someone who passionately opposes abortion or meat eating may concurrently advocate violence to kill an abortionist or attack a slaughterhouse, which makes that person a violent person.\n\nNonviolence or \"Ahimsa\" is one of the cardinal virtues and an important tenet of Jainism, Hinduism, and Buddhism. It is a multidimensional concept, inspired by the premise that all living beings have the spark of the divine spiritual energy; therefore, to hurt another being is to hurt oneself. It has also been related to the notion that any violence has karmic consequences. While ancient scholars of Hinduism pioneered and over time perfected the principles of \"Ahimsa\", the concept reached an extraordinary status in the ethical philosophy of Jainism.\n\nParsvanatha, the twenty-third \"tirthankara\" of Jainism, revived, advocated for and preached the concept of nonviolence in around eighth-century BC. Mahavira, the twenty-fourth and the last \"tirthankara\" further strengthened the idea in sixth-century BC; which was believed to be founded by the first tirthankara Rushabhdev over a million years ago.\n\nAdvocates of nonviolent action believe cooperation and consent are the roots of civil or political power: all regimes, including bureaucratic institutions, financial institutions, and the armed segments of society (such as the military and police); depend on compliance from citizens. On a national level, the strategy of nonviolent action seeks to undermine the power of rulers by encouraging people to withdraw their consent and cooperation. The forms of nonviolence draw inspiration from both religious or ethical beliefs and political analysis. Religious or ethically based nonviolence is sometimes referred to as \"principled,\" \"philosophical,\" or \"ethical\" nonviolence, while nonviolence based on political analysis is often referred to as \"tactical,\" \"strategic,\" or \"pragmatic\" nonviolent action. Commonly, both of these dimensions may be present within the thinking of particular movements or individuals.\nThe fundamental concept of \"pragmatic\" (\"tactical\" or \"strategic\") nonviolent action is to create a social dynamic or political movement that can create a national or international dialogue which effects social change without necessarily winning over those who wish to maintain the status quo.\n\nNicolas Walter noted the idea that nonviolence might work \"runs under the surface of Western political thought without ever quite disappearing\". Walter noted Étienne de La Boétie's \"Discourse on Voluntary Servitude\" (sixteenth century) and P.B. Shelley's \"The Masque of Anarchy\" (1819) contain arguments for resisting tyranny without using violence. In 1838, William Lloyd Garrison helped\nfound the New England Non-Resistance Society, a society devoted to achieving racial and gender equality through the rejection of all violent actions.\n\nIn modern industrial democracies, nonviolent action has been used extensively by political sectors without mainstream political power such as labor, peace, environment and women's movements. Lesser known is the role that nonviolent action has played and continues to play in undermining the power of repressive political regimes in the developing world and the former eastern bloc. Susan Ives emphasizes this point by quoting Walter Wink: \n\nAs a technique for social struggle, nonviolent action has been described as \"the politics of ordinary people\", reflecting its historically mass-based use by populations throughout the world and history.\n\nMovements most often associated with nonviolence are the non-cooperation campaign for Indian independence led by Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi, the Civil Rights Movement in the United States, and the People Power Revolution in the Philippines.\n\nAlso of primary significance is the notion that just means are the most likely to lead to just ends. When Gandhi said that \"the means may be likened to the seed, the end to a tree,\" he expressed the philosophical kernel of what some refer to as \"prefigurative politics\". Martin Luther King, a student of Gandhian nonviolent resistance, concurred with this tenet, concluding that \"nonviolence demands that the means we use must be as pure as the ends we seek.\" Proponents of nonviolence reason that the actions taken in the present inevitably re-shape the social order in like form. They would argue, for instance, that it is fundamentally irrational to use violence to achieve a peaceful society.\n\nPeople have come to use nonviolent methods of struggle from a wide range of perspectives and traditions. A landless peasant in Brazil may nonviolently occupy a parcel of land for purely practical motivations. If they do not, the family will starve. A Buddhist monk in Thailand may \"ordain\" trees in a threatened forest, drawing on the teachings of Buddha to resist its destruction. A waterside worker in England may go on strike in socialist and union political traditions. All the above are using nonviolent methods but from different standpoints. Likewise, secular political movements have utilized nonviolent methods, either as a tactical tool or as a strategic program on purely pragmatic and strategic levels, relying on their political effectiveness rather than a claim to any religious, moral or ethical worthiness.\nRespect or love for opponents also has a pragmatic justification, in that the technique of separating the deeds from the doers allows for the possibility of the doers changing their behaviour, and perhaps their beliefs. Martin Luther King wrote, \"Nonviolent resistance... avoids not only external physical violence but also internal violence of spirit. The nonviolent resister not only refuses to shoot his opponent, but he also refuses to hate him.\"\n\nFinally, the notion of \"Satya\", or Truth, is central to the Gandhian conception of nonviolence. Gandhi saw Truth as something that is multifaceted and unable to be grasped in its entirety by any one individual. All carry pieces of the Truth, he believed, but all need the pieces of others’ truths in order to pursue the greater Truth. This led him to believe in the inherent worth of dialogue with opponents, in order to understand motivations. On a practical level, the willingness to listen to another's point of view is largely dependent on reciprocity. In order to be heard by one's opponents, one must also be prepared to listen.\n\nNonviolence has obtained a level of institutional recognition and endorsement at the global level. On November 10, 1998, the United Nations General Assembly proclaimed the first decade of the 21st century and the third millennium, the years 2001 to 2010, as the International Decade for the Promotion of a Culture of Peace and Non-Violence for the Children of the World.\n\nFor many, practicing nonviolence goes deeper than abstaining from violent behavior or words. It means overriding the impulse to be hateful and holding love for everyone, even those with whom one strongly disagrees. In this view, because violence is learned, it is necessary to unlearn violence by practicing love and compassion at every possible opportunity. For some, the commitment to non-violence entails a belief in restorative or transformative justice, an abolition of the death penalty and other harsh punishments. This may involve the necessity of caring for those who are violent.\n\nNonviolence, for many, involves a respect and reverence for all sentient, and perhaps even non-sentient, beings. This might include abolitionism against animals as property, the practice of not eating animal products or by-products (vegetarianism or veganism), spiritual practices of non-harm to all beings, and caring for the rights of all beings. Mohandas Gandhi, James Bevel, and other nonviolent proponents advocated vegetarianism as part of their nonviolent philosophy. Buddhists extend this respect for life to animals, plants, and even minerals, while Jainism extend this respect for life to animals, plants and even small organisms such as insects.\n\nThe classical Indian text of Tirukkuṛaḷ deals with the ethics of non-violence or non-harming through verses 311-320 in Chapter 32 of Book 1, further discussing compassion in Chapter 25 (verses 241-250), vegetarianism or veganism in Chapter 26 (verses 251-260), and non-killing in Chapter 33 (verses 321-330).\n\nAhimsa as an ethical concept evolved in Vedic texts. The oldest scripts, along with discussing ritual animal sacrifices, indirectly mention Ahimsa, but do not emphasise it. Over time, the Hindu scripts revise ritual practices and the concept of Ahimsa is increasingly refined and emphasised, ultimately Ahimsa becomes the highest virtue by the late Vedic era (about 500 BC). For example, hymn 10.22.25 in the Rig Veda uses the words Satya (truthfulness) and Ahimsa in a prayer to deity Indra; later, the Yajur Veda dated to be between 1000 BC and 600 BC, states, \"may all beings look at me with a friendly eye, may I do likewise, and may we look at each other with the eyes of a friend\".\n\nThe term \"Ahimsa\" appears in the text Taittiriya Shakha of the Yajurveda (TS 5.2.8.7), where it refers to non-injury to the sacrificer himself. It occurs several times in the \"Shatapatha Brahmana\" in the sense of \"non-injury\". The Ahimsa doctrine is a late Vedic era development in Brahmanical culture. The earliest reference to the idea of non-violence to animals (\"pashu-Ahimsa\"), apparently in a moral sense, is in the Kapisthala Katha Samhita of the Yajurveda (KapS 31.11), which may have been written in about the 8th century BCE.\n\nBowker states the word appears but is uncommon in the principal Upanishads. Kaneda gives examples of the word \"Ahimsa\" in these Upanishads. Other scholars suggest \"Ahimsa\" as an ethical concept that started evolving in the Vedas, becoming an increasingly central concept in Upanishads.\n\nThe Chāndogya Upaniṣad, dated to the 8th or 7th century BCE, one of the oldest Upanishads, has the earliest evidence for the Vedic era use of the word \"Ahimsa\" in the sense familiar in Hinduism (a code of conduct). It bars violence against \"all creatures\" (\"sarvabhuta\") and the practitioner of Ahimsa is said to escape from the cycle of rebirths (CU 8.15.1). Some scholars state that this 8th or 7th-century BCE mention may have been an influence of Jainism on Vedic Hinduism. Others scholar state that this relationship is speculative, and though Jainism is an ancient tradition the oldest traceable texts of Jainism tradition are from many centuries after the Vedic era ended.\n\nChāndogya Upaniṣad also names Ahimsa, along with Satyavacanam (truthfulness), Arjavam (sincerity), Danam (charity), Tapo (penance/meditation), as one of five essential virtues (CU 3.17.4).\n\nThe Sandilya Upanishad lists ten forbearances: Ahimsa, Satya, Asteya, Brahmacharya, Daya, Arjava, Kshama, Dhriti, Mitahara and Saucha. According to Kaneda, the term Ahimsa is an important spiritual doctrine shared by Hinduism, Buddhism and Jainism. It literally means 'non-injury' and 'non-killing'. It implies the total avoidance of harming of any kind of living creatures not only by deeds, but also by words and in thoughts.\n\nThe Mahabharata, one of the epics of Hinduism, has multiple mentions of the phrase \"Ahimsa Paramo Dharma\" (अहिंसा परमॊ धर्मः), which literally means: non-violence is the highest moral virtue. For example, Mahaprasthanika Parva has the verse:\n<poem>\nअहिंसा परमॊ धर्मस तथाहिंसा परॊ दमः।\nअहिंसा परमं दानम अहिंसा परमस तपः।\nअहिंसा परमॊ यज्ञस तथाहिस्मा परं बलम।\nअहिंसा परमं मित्रम अहिंसा परमं सुखम।\nअहिंसा परमं सत्यम अहिंसा परमं शरुतम॥\n</poem>\nThe above passage from Mahabharata emphasises the cardinal importance of Ahimsa in Hinduism, and literally means: Ahimsa is the highest virtue, Ahimsa is the highest self-control, Ahimsa is the greatest gift, Ahimsa is the best suffering, Ahimsa is the highest sacrifice, Ahimsa is the finest strength, Ahimsa is the greatest friend, Ahimsa is the greatest happiness, Ahimsa is the highest truth, and Ahimsa is the greatest teaching. Some other examples where the phrase \"Ahimsa Paramo Dharma\" are discussed include Adi Parva, Vana Parva and Anushasana Parva. The Bhagavad Gita, among other things, discusses the doubts and questions about appropriate response when one faces systematic violence or war. These verses develop the concepts of lawful violence in self-defence and the theories of just war. However, there is no consensus on this interpretation. Gandhi, for example, considers this debate about non-violence and lawful violence as a mere metaphor for the internal war within each human being, when he or she faces moral questions.\n\nThe classical texts of Hinduism devote numerous chapters discussing what people who practice the virtue of Ahimsa, can and must do when they are faced with war, violent threat or need to sentence someone convicted of a crime. These discussions have led to theories of just war, theories of reasonable self-defence and theories of proportionate punishment. Arthashastra discusses, among other things, why and what constitutes proportionate response and punishment.\n\nThe precepts of Ahimsa under Hinduism require that war must be avoided, with sincere and truthful dialogue. Force must be the last resort. If war becomes necessary, its cause must be just, its purpose virtuous, its objective to restrain the wicked, its aim peace, its method lawful. War can only be started and stopped by a legitimate authority. Weapons used must be proportionate to the opponent and the aim of war, not indiscriminate tools of destruction. All strategies and weapons used in the war must be to defeat the opponent, not designed to cause misery to the opponent; for example, use of arrows is allowed, but use of arrows smeared with painful poison is not allowed. Warriors must use judgment in the battlefield. Cruelty to the opponent during war is forbidden. Wounded, unarmed opponent warriors must not be attacked or killed, they must be brought to your realm and given medical treatment. Children, women and civilians must not be injured. While the war is in progress, sincere dialogue for peace must continue.\n\nIn matters of self-defence, different interpretations of ancient Hindu texts have been offered. For example, Tähtinen suggests self-defence is appropriate, criminals are not protected by the rule of Ahimsa, and Hindu scriptures support the use of violence against an armed attacker. Ahimsa is not meant to imply pacifism.\n\nAlternate theories of self-defence, inspired by Ahimsa, build principles similar to theories of just war. Aikido, pioneered in Japan, illustrates one such principles of self-defence. Morihei Ueshiba, the founder of Aikido, described his inspiration as Ahimsa. According to this interpretation of Ahimsa in self-defence, one must not assume that the world is free of aggression. One must presume that some people will, out of ignorance, error or fear, attack other persons or intrude into their space, physically or verbally. The aim of self-defence, suggested Ueshiba, must be to neutralise the aggression of the attacker, and avoid the conflict. The best defence is one where the victim is protected, as well as the attacker is respected and not injured if possible. Under Ahimsa and Aikido, there are no enemies, and appropriate self-defence focuses on neutralising the immaturity, assumptions and aggressive strivings of the attacker.\n\nTähtinen concludes that Hindus have no misgivings about death penalty; their position is that evil-doers who deserve death should be killed, and that a king in particular is obliged to punish criminals and should not hesitate to kill them, even if they happen to be his own brothers and sons.\n\nOther scholars conclude that the scriptures of Hinduism suggest sentences for any crime must be fair, proportional and not cruel.\n\nThere is no consensus on pacifism among modern Hindu scholars. The conflict between pacifistic interpretations of Ahimsa and the theories of just war prescribed by the Gita has been resolved by some scholars such as Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi, as being an allegory, wherein the battlefield is the soul and Arjuna, the war is within each human being, where man's higher impulses struggle against his own evil impulses.\n\nThe Hindu precept of 'cause no injury' applies to animals and all life forms. This precept isn't found in the oldest verses of Vedas, but increasingly becomes one of the central ideas between 500 BC and 400 AD. In the oldest texts, numerous ritual sacrifices of animals, including cows and horses, are highlighted and hardly any mention is made of Ahimsa to non-human life.\n\nHindu scriptures, dated to between 5th century and 1st century BC, while discussing human diet, initially suggest \"kosher\" meat may be eaten, evolving it with the suggestion that only meat obtained through ritual sacrifice can be eaten, then that one should eat no meat because it hurts animals, with verses describing the noble life as one that lives on flowers, roots and fruits alone.\n\nLater texts of Hinduism declare Ahimsa one of the primary virtues, declare any killing or harming any life as against \"dharma\" (moral life). Finally, the discussion in Upanishads and Hindu Epics shifts to whether a human being can ever live his or her life without harming animal and plant life in some way; which and when plants or animal meat may be eaten, whether violence against animals causes human beings to become less compassionate, and if and how one may exert least harm to non-human life consistent with ahimsa precept, given the constraints of life and human needs. The Mahabharata permits hunting by warriors, but opposes it in the case of hermits who must be strictly non-violent. Sushruta Samhita, a Hindu text written in the 3rd or 4th century, in Chapter XLVI suggests proper diet as a means of treating certain illnesses, and recommends various fishes and meats for different ailments and for pregnant women, and the Charaka Samhita describes meat as superior to all other kinds of food for convalescents.\n\nAcross the texts of Hinduism, there is a profusion of ideas about the virtue of Ahimsa when applied to non-human life, but without a universal consensus. Alsdorf claims the debate and disagreements between supporters of vegetarian lifestyle and meat eaters was significant. Even suggested exceptions – ritual slaughter and hunting – were challenged by advocates of Ahimsa. In the Mahabharata both sides present various arguments to substantiate their viewpoints. Moreover, a hunter defends his profession in a long discourse.\n\nMany of the arguments proposed in favor of non-violence to animals refer to the bliss one feels, the rewards it entails before or after death, the danger and harm it prevents, as well as to the karmic consequences of violence.\n\nThe ancient Hindu texts discuss Ahimsa and non-animal life. They discourage wanton destruction of nature including of wild and cultivated plants. Hermits (sannyasins) were urged to live on a fruitarian diet so as to avoid the destruction of plants. Scholars claim the principles of ecological non-violence is innate in the Hindu tradition, and its conceptual fountain has been Ahimsa as their cardinal virtue.\n\nThe classical literature of Hinduism exists in many Indian languages. For example, \"Tirukkuṛaḷ,\" written between 200 BC and 400 AD, and sometimes called the Tamil Veda, is one of the most cherished classics on Hinduism written in a South Indian language. Tirukkuṛaḷ dedicates Chapters 26, 32 and 33 of Book 1 to the virtue of Ahimsa, namely, vegetarianism, non-harming, and non-killing, respectively. \"Tirukkuṛaḷ\" says that Ahimsa applies to all life forms.\n\nIn Jainism, the understanding and implementation of \"Ahimsā\" is more radical, scrupulous, and comprehensive than in any other religion. Killing any living being out of passions is considered \"hiṃsā\" (to injure) and abstaining from such an act is \"ahimsā\" (noninjury). The vow of ahimsā is considered the foremost among the 'five vows of Jainism'. Other vows like truth (Satya) are meant for safeguarding the vow of ahimsā. In the practice of Ahimsa, the requirements are less strict for the lay persons (sravakas) who have undertaken \"anuvrata\" (Smaller Vows) than for the Jain monastics who are bound by the Mahavrata \"Great Vows\". The statement \"\" is often found inscribed on the walls of the Jain temples. Like in Hinduism, the aim is to prevent the accumulation of harmful karma. When Mahavira revived and reorganized the Jain faith in the 6th or 5th century BCE, Ahimsa was already an established, strictly observed rule. Rishabhanatha (Ādinātha), the first Jain Tirthankara, whom modern Western historians consider to be a historical figure, followed by Parshvanatha (Pārśvanātha) the twenty-third Tirthankara lived in about the 8th century BCE. He founded the community to which Mahavira's parents belonged. Ahimsa was already part of the \"Fourfold Restraint\" (\"Caujjama\"), the vows taken by Parshva's followers. In the times of Mahavira and in the following centuries, Jains were at odds with both Buddhists and followers of the Vedic religion or Hindus, whom they accused of negligence and inconsistency in the implementation of Ahimsa. According to the Jain tradition either lacto vegetarianism or veganism is mandatory.\n\nThe Jain concept of Ahimsa is characterised by several aspects. It does not make any exception for ritual sacrificers and professional warrior-hunters. Killing of animals for food is absolutely ruled out. Jains also make considerable efforts not to injure plants in everyday life as far as possible. Though they admit that plants must be destroyed for the sake of food, they accept such violence only inasmuch as it is indispensable for human survival, and there are special instructions for preventing unnecessary violence against plants. Jains go out of their way so as not to hurt even small insects and other minuscule animals. For example, Jains often do not go out at night, when they are more likely to step upon an insect. In their view, injury caused by carelessness is like injury caused by deliberate action. Eating honey is strictly outlawed, as it would amount to violence against the bees. Some Jains abstain from farming because it inevitably entails unintentional killing or injuring of many small animals, such as worms and insects, but agriculture is not forbidden in general and there are Jain farmers.\n\nTheoretically, all life forms are said to deserve full protection from all kinds of injury, but Jains recognise a hierarchy of life. Mobile beings are given higher protection than immobile ones. For the mobile beings, they distinguish between one-sensed, two-sensed, three-sensed, four-sensed and five-sensed ones; a one-sensed animal has touch as its only sensory modality. The more senses a being has, the more they care about non-injuring it. Among the five-sensed beings, the precept of non-injury and non-violence to the rational ones (humans) is strongest in Jain Ahimsa.\n\nJains agree with Hindus that violence in self-defence can be justified, and they agree that a soldier who kills enemies in combat is performing a legitimate duty. Jain communities accepted the use of military power for their defence, there were Jain monarchs, military commanders, and soldiers.\n\nIn Buddhist texts \"Ahimsa\" (or its Pāli cognate ) is part of the Five Precepts (), the first of which has been to abstain from killing. This precept of Ahimsa is applicable to both the Buddhist layperson and the monk community.\n\nThe Ahimsa precept is not a commandment and transgressions did not invite religious sanctions for layperson, but their power has been in the Buddhist belief in karmic consequences and their impact in afterlife during rebirth. Killing, in Buddhist belief, could lead to rebirth in the hellish realm, and for a longer time in more severe conditions if the murder victim was a monk. Saving animals from slaughter for meat, is believed to be a way to acquire merit for better rebirth. These moral precepts have been voluntarily self-enforced in lay Buddhist culture through the associated belief in karma and rebirth. The Buddhist texts not only recommended Ahimsa, but suggest avoiding trading goods that contribute to or are a result of violence:\n\nUnlike lay Buddhists, transgressions by monks do invite sanctions. Full expulsion of a monk from \"sangha\" follows instances of killing, just like any other serious offense against the monastic \"nikaya\" code of conduct.\n\nViolent ways of punishing criminals and prisoners of war was not explicitly condemned in Buddhism, but peaceful ways of conflict resolution and punishment with the least amount of injury were encouraged. The early texts condemn the mental states that lead to violent behavior.\n\nNonviolence is an overriding theme within the Pali Canon. While the early texts condemn killing in the strongest terms, and portray the ideal king as a pacifist, such a king is nonetheless flanked by an army. It seems that the Buddha's teaching on nonviolence was not interpreted or put into practice in an uncompromisingly pacifist or anti-military-service way by early Buddhists. The early texts assume war to be a fact of life, and well-skilled warriors are viewed as necessary for defensive warfare. In Pali texts, injunctions to abstain from violence and involvement with military affairs are directed at members of the sangha; later Mahayana texts, which often generalise monastic norms to laity, require this of lay people as well.\n\nThe early texts do not contain just-war ideology as such. Some argue that a sutta in the \"Gamani Samyuttam\" rules out all military service. In this passage, a soldier asks the Buddha if it is true that, as he has been told, soldiers slain in battle are reborn in a heavenly realm. The Buddha reluctantly replies that if he is killed in battle while his mind is seized with the intention to kill, he will undergo an unpleasant rebirth. In the early texts, a person's mental state at the time of death is generally viewed as having a great impact on the next birth.\n\nSome Buddhists point to other early texts as justifying defensive war. One example is the \"Kosala Samyutta\", in which King Pasenadi, a righteous king favored by the Buddha, learns of an impending attack on his kingdom. He arms himself in defence, and leads his army into battle to protect his kingdom from attack. He lost this battle but won the war. King Pasenadi eventually defeated King Ajatasattu and captured him alive. He thought that, although this King of Magadha has transgressed against his kingdom, he had not transgressed against him personally, and Ajatasattu was still his nephew. He released Ajatasattu and did not harm him. Upon his return, the Buddha said (among other things) that Pasenadi \"is a friend of virtue, acquainted with virtue, intimate with virtue\", while the opposite is said of the aggressor, King Ajatasattu.\n\nAccording to Theravada commentaries, there are five requisite factors that must all be fulfilled for an act to be both an act of killing and to be karmically negative. These are: (1) the presence of a living being, human or animal; (2) the knowledge that the being is a living being; (3) the intent to kill; (4) the act of killing by some means; and (5) the resulting death. Some Buddhists have argued on this basis that the act of killing is complicated, and its ethicization is predicated upon intent. Some have argued that in defensive postures, for example, the primary intention of a soldier is not to kill, but to defend against aggression, and the act of killing in that situation would have minimal negative karmic repercussions.\n\nAccording to Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar, there is circumstantial evidence encouraging Ahimsa, from the Buddha's doctrine, \"Love all, so that you may not wish to kill any.\" Gautama Buddha distinguished between a principle and a rule. He did not make Ahimsa a matter of rule, but suggested it as a matter of principle. This gives Buddhists freedom to act.\n\nThe emperors of Sui dynasty, Tang dynasty and early Song dynasty banned killing in Lunar calendar 1st, 5th, and 9th month. Empress Wu Tse-Tien banned killing for more than half a year in 692. Some also banned fishing for some time each year.\n\nThere were bans after death of emperors, Buddhist and Taoist prayers, and natural disasters such as after a drought in 1926 summer Shanghai and an 8 days ban from August 12, 1959, after the August 7 flood (), the last big flood before the 88 Taiwan Flood.\n\nPeople avoid killing during some festivals, like the Taoist Ghost Festival, the Nine Emperor Gods Festival, the Vegetarian Festival and many others.\n\nNonviolent action generally comprises three categories: \"Acts of Protest and Persuasion\", \"Noncooperation\", and \"Nonviolent Intervention\".\n\nNonviolent acts of protest and persuasion are symbolic actions performed by a group of people to show their support or disapproval of something. The goal of this kind of action is to bring public awareness to an issue, persuade or influence a particular group of people, or to facilitate future nonviolent action. The message can be directed toward the public, opponents, or people affected by the issue. Methods of protest and persuasion include speeches, public communications, petitions, symbolic acts, art, processions (marches), and other public assemblies.\n\nNoncooperation involves the purposeful withholding of cooperation or the unwillingness to initiate in cooperation with an opponent. The goal of noncooperation is to halt or hinder an industry, political system, or economic process. Methods of noncooperation include labour strikes, economic boycotts, civil disobedience, sex strike, tax refusal, and general disobedience.\n\nCompared with protest and noncooperation, nonviolent intervention is a more direct method of nonviolent action. Nonviolent intervention can be used defensively—for example to maintain an institution or independent initiative—or offensively- for example, to drastically forward a nonviolent struggle into the opponent's territory. Intervention is often more immediate and effective than the other two methods, but is also harder to maintain and more taxing to the participants involved.\n\nGene Sharp, a political scientist who seeks to advance the worldwide study and use of strategic nonviolent action in conflict, has written extensively about the methods of nonviolent action. In his book \"Waging Nonviolent Struggle\" he describes 198 methods of nonviolent action. In early Greece, Aristophanes' Lysistrata gives the fictional example of women withholding sexual favors from their husbands until war was abandoned. A modern work of fiction inspired by Gene Sharp and by Aristophanes is \"A Door into Ocean\" by Joan Slonczewski, depicting an ocean world inhabited by women who use nonviolent means to repel armed space invaders. Other methods of nonviolent intervention include occupations (sit-ins), blockades, fasting (hunger strikes), truck cavalcades, and dual sovereignty/parallel government.\n\nTactics must be carefully chosen, taking into account political and cultural circumstances, and form part of a larger plan or strategy.\n\nSuccessful nonviolent cross-border intervention projects include the Guatemala Accompaniment Project, Peace Brigades International and Christian Peacemaker Teams. Developed in the early 1980s, and originally inspired by the Gandhian Shanti Sena, the primary tools of these organisations have been nonviolent protective accompaniment, backed up by a global support network which can respond to threats, local and regional grassroots diplomatic and peacebuilding efforts, human rights observation and witnessing, and reporting. In extreme cases, most of these groups are also prepared to do interpositioning: placing themselves between parties who are engaged or threatening to engage in outright attacks in one or both directions. Individual and large group cases of interpositioning, when called for, have been remarkably effective in dampening conflict and saving lives.\n\nAnother powerful tactic of nonviolent intervention invokes public scrutiny of the oppressors as a result of the resisters remaining nonviolent in the face of violent repression. If the military or police attempt to repress nonviolent resisters violently, the power to act shifts from the hands of the oppressors to those of the resisters. If the resisters are persistent, the military or police will be forced to accept the fact that they no longer have any power over the resisters. Often, the willingness of the resisters to suffer has a profound effect on the mind and emotions of the oppressor, leaving them unable to commit such a violent act again.\n\nCertain individuals (Barbara Deming, Danilo Dolci, Devere Allen etc.) and party groups (e.g. Committees of Correspondence for Democracy and Socialism, Pacifist Socialist Party or War Resisters League) have advocated nonviolent revolution as an alternative to violence as well as elitist reformism. This perspective is usually connected to militant anti-capitalism.\n\nMany leftist and socialist movements have hoped to mount a \"peaceful revolution\" by organising enough strikers to completely paralyse the state and corporate apparatus, allowing workers to re-organise society along radically different lines. Some have argued that a relatively nonviolent revolution would require fraternisation with military forces.\n\nErnesto Che Guevara, Leon Trotsky, Frantz Fanon and Subhas Chandra Bose were fervent critics of nonviolence, arguing variously that nonviolence and pacifism are an attempt to impose the morals of the bourgeoisie upon the proletariat, that violence is a necessary accompaniment to revolutionary change or that the right to self-defense is fundamental. Note, for example, the complaint of Malcolm X that \"I believe it's a crime for anyone being brutalized to continue to accept that brutality without doing something to defend himself.\"\n\nGeorge Orwell argued that the nonviolent resistance strategy of Gandhi could be effective in countries with \"a free press and the right of assembly\", which could make it possible \"not merely to appeal to outside opinion, but to bring a mass movement into being, or even to make your intentions known to your adversary\"; but he was skeptical of Gandhi's approach being effective in the opposite sort of circumstances.\n\nReinhold Niebuhr similarly affirmed Gandhi's approach while criticising aspects of it. He argued, \"The advantage of non-violence as a method of expressing moral goodwill lies in the fact that it protects the agent against the resentments which violent conflict always creates in both parties to a conflict, and it proves this freedom of resentment and ill-will to the contending party in the dispute by enduring more suffering than it causes.\" However, Niebuhr also held, \"The differences between violent and non-violent methods of coercion and resistance are not so absolute that it would be possible to regard violence as a morally impossible instrument of social change.\"\n\nIn the midst of repression of radical African American groups in the United States during the 1960s, Black Panther member George Jackson said of the nonviolent tactics of Martin Luther King Jr.:\n\"The concept of nonviolence is a false ideal. It presupposes the existence of compassion and a sense of justice on the part of one's adversary. When this adversary has everything to lose and nothing to gain by exercising justice and compassion, his reaction can only be negative.\"\n\nMalcolm X also clashed with civil rights leaders over the issue of nonviolence, arguing that violence should not be ruled out if no option remained.\n\nIn his book \"How Nonviolence Protects the State\", anarchist Peter Gelderloos criticises nonviolence as being ineffective, racist, statist, patriarchal, tactically and strategically inferior to militant activism, and deluded. Gelderloos claims that traditional histories whitewash the impact of nonviolence, ignoring the involvement of militants in such movements as the Indian independence movement and the Civil Rights Movement and falsely showing Gandhi and King as being their respective movement's most successful activists. He further argues that nonviolence is generally advocated by privileged white people who expect \"oppressed people, many of whom are people of color, to suffer patiently under an inconceivably greater violence, until such time as the Great White Father is swayed by the movement's demands or the pacifists achieve that legendary 'critical mass.'\" On the other hand, anarchism also includes a section committed to nonviolence called anarcho-pacifism. The main early influences were the thought of Henry David Thoreau and Leo Tolstoy while later the ideas of Mohandas Gandhi gained importance. It developed \"mostly in Holland, Britain, and the United States, before and during the Second World War\".\n\nThe efficacy of nonviolence was also challenged by some anti-capitalist protesters advocating a \"diversity of tactics\" during street demonstrations across Europe and the US following the anti-World Trade Organization protests in Seattle, Washington in 1999. American feminist writer D. A. Clarke, in her essay \"A Woman With A Sword,\" suggests that for nonviolence to be effective, it must be \"practiced by those who could easily resort to force if they chose.\"\n\nNonviolence advocates see some truth in this argument: Gandhi himself said often that he could teach nonviolence to a violent person but not to a coward and that true nonviolence came from renouncing violence, not by not having any to renounce.\n\nAdvocates responding to criticisms of the efficacy of nonviolence point to the success of non-violent struggles even against the Nazi regimes in Denmark and even in Berlin. A study by Erica Chenoweth and Maria Stephan found that nonviolent revolutions are twice as effective as violent ones and lead to much greater degrees of democratic freedom.\n\nA 2016 study finds that \"increasing levels of globalization are positively associated with the emergence of nonviolent campaigns, while negatively influencing the probability of violent campaigns. Integration into the world increases the popularity of peaceful alternatives to achieve political goals.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1809875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1809875", "title": "Notion (philosophy)", "text": "Notion (philosophy)\n\nA notion in philosophy is a reflection in the mind of real objects and phenomena in their essential features and relations. Notions are usually described in terms of scope and content. This is because notions are often created in response to empirical observations (or experiments) of covarying trends among variables.\n\n\"Notion\" is the common translation for \"Begriff\" as used by Hegel in his Science of Logic (1816).\n\nA primitive notion is used in logic or mathematics as an undefined term or concept at the foundation of an axiomatic system to be constructed. \n\nHowever, in philosophy the term \"primitive notion\" has historical content. For example, Gottfried Leibniz wrote \"De Alphabeto Cogitationum Humanarum\" (English: \"An Alphabet for Human Thought\"). Jaap Maat (2004) reviewed Leibniz for \"Philosophical Languages of the 17th Century\". According to Leibniz, \"The alphabet of human thought is a catalogue of primitive notions, or those we cannot render clearer by any definitions.\" Maat explains, \"a thing which is known without other intermediate notions can be considered to be primitive,\" and further, \"a primitive notion is said to be conceived through itself\".\n\nAnother example is in the \"Meditations\" of René Descartes:\n\n"}
{"id": "18962436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18962436", "title": "Ohno's law", "text": "Ohno's law\n\nOhno's law was proposed by a Japanese-American biologist Susumu Ohno, saying that the gene content of the mammalian species has been conserved over species not only in the DNA content but also in the genes themselves. That is, nearly all mammalian species have conserved the X chromosome from their primordial X chromosome of a common ancestor.\n\nAs a cytological evidence, in first, mammalian X chromosomes in various species, including human and mouse, have nearly the same size, with the content of about 5% of the genome. Second, for individual gene loci, a number of X-linked genes are common through mammalian species. Examples are found in glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD), a gene for polypeptide of antihemophilic globulin (AHG or Factor VIII) in hemophilia A and B, and plasma thromboplastin component gene (PTC or Factor IX). Moreover, no instances were found where an X-linked gene in one species was located on an autosome in the other species.\n\nThe content of a chromosome would be changed mainly by mutation after duplication of the chromosome and translocation with other chromosomes. However, in mammals, since the chromosomal sex-determination mechanism would have been established in their earlier stages of evolution, polyploidy would have not occurred due to its incompatibility with the sex-determining mechanism. Moreover, X-autosome translocation would have been prohibited because it might have resulted in detrimental effects for survival to the organism. Thus in mammals, the content of X chromosomes has been conserved after typical 2 round duplication events at early ancestral stages of evolution, at the fish or amphibia (2R hypothesis).\n\nGenes on the long arm of the human X are contained in the monotreme X and genes on the short arm of the human X are distributed on the autosomes of marsupials. Ohno commented to the result that monotremes and marsupials were not considered to be ancestors of true mammals, but they have diverged very early from the main line of mammals. Chloride channel gene (\"CLCN4\") was mapped to the human X but on chromosome 7 of C57BL/6 mice, species of \"Mus musculus\", though the gene is located on X of \"Mus spretus\" and rat.\n\n"}
{"id": "2821216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2821216", "title": "Opposing Viewpoints series", "text": "Opposing Viewpoints series\n\nOpposing Viewpoints is a series of books on current issues which seeks to explore the varying opinions in a balanced pros/cons debate. The series attempts to encourage critical thinking and issue awareness by providing opposing views on contentious issues. The online versions are handled by Cengage Gale, but the print versions are now available through Rosen publishing.\n\nEach book features black and white illustrations and cartoons, bibliographies, glossaries, chronologies, indexes, activities, and discussion questions. They are published by Greenhaven Press and are heavily used in both school and public library collections.\n\n\n\nwww.rosenpublishing.com for in print Opposing Viewpoints books.\n"}
{"id": "52487254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52487254", "title": "Oppositional gaze", "text": "Oppositional gaze\n\nOppositional gaze is a political rebellion and resistance against the repression of black people's right to a gaze; and it is through these looking relations that independent black cinema develops. The phrase \"oppositional gaze\" was coined by feminist, scholar and social activist bell hooks in 1992. It is a work of feminist film theory, which criticizes the male gaze through Michel Foucault's 'relations of power'. hooks asserts \"there is power in looking\".\n\nThe oppositional gaze encompasses modes of looking and looking back which employ reflexive gazes such as: \n\nThe concept was first developed as a critique of the male gaze by bell hooks in her essay \"The Oppositional Gaze: Black Female Spectators\". hooks posits the power of the gaze from a black body as repressed, denied, and ultimately interrogating. Through critical discussion around black women and cinema, the oppositional gaze enters as the counterpart to reinforcing white supremacy. Subsequently, black films developed in response to the stagnant stereotypes of white-dominated cinema. It is critical to note that even in this realm, the concerns around gender relations reinforce an imaginative moment of phallocentric power by black men, a power not disseminated toward black women.\n\nIn Lacanian theory, modes of power and looking relations are contextualized within the mirror stage. This stage subsequently produces the narcissistic libido and the alienating function of the 'I' \"...which will mark with its rigid structure the subject's entire mental development. Thus, to break out of the circle of the \"Innenwelt\" into the \"Umwelt\" generates the inexhaustible quadrature of the ego's verifications\". As a child, hook's first encounter with Sapphire from Amos 'n' Andy \"...explored both the negation of black female representation in cinema and television and our rejection of these images. [Sapphire's] black female image was not the body of desire. There was nothing to see. She was not us\". Lacan examines this dual relationship, noting that the mirror stage is \"...far from a phenomenon that occurs in the development of the child\". Thus, placing the black female spectator in a paradigm of \"méconnaissances\", where their image was explained and reiterated without them looking. As hooks concludes on the black characterization of Sapphire, \"How could we long to be there when our image, visually constructed, was so ugly\".\n\nIn \"The Oppositional Gaze: Black Female Spectators\", hooks gives the rubric that black woman are not only underrepresented in film, but they are also not allowed to 'look' either. Looking implores a sense of power that is removed from the black female body, to play the role of object in direct relation to white female existence.\n\nIn 2015, Viola Davis was quoted by Entertainment Weekly saying, \"Toni Morrison said that as soon as a character of color is introduced in a story imagination stops…I mean, I’m a black woman from Central Falls, Rhode Island. I’m dark-skinned. I’m quirky. I’m shy. I’m strong. I’m guarded. I’m weak at times. I’m sensual. I’m not overtly sexual. I am so many things in so many ways, and I will never see myself on screen”. It is beneath this very umbrella that hooks' concept of the oppositional gaze is present, as Davis, a decorated actress and producer, states the realities of what it means to be a black woman in film. This statement came after Davis was awarded as the first black woman to win the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Drama Series.\n\n\"‘The Oppositional Gaze’ by bell hooks is the rejection of Laura Mulvey’s paper, \"Visual Pleasure and Narrative Cinema\" (1975)\". Mulvey's text analyses Lacan's mirror stage within film, concluding that subjectivity is \"the birth of the long love affair/ despair between image and self-image which has found such intensity of expression in film and such joyous recognition in the cinema audience\". She furthers this point by criticizing the \"male movie star's glamorous characteristics\" as not subject to an objectifying gaze, but rather a more powerful stance as the 'ideal ego' developed in the beginning stages of recognition in front of the mirror. Mulvey defines the \"split between active/ male and passive/ female\" as the pleasure in looking through which the determining male gaze stylizes the female figure. hooks rebuts this claim stating, \"Black female spectators 'actively' chose not to identify with the film's imaginary subject because such identification was disenabling\".\n\nThe concept of seeing one's self in opposition to the 'ideal ego' must begin with recognition of one's body as comparably different. Black female representation in film exists primarily in opposition to the white woman's body. Thus, black women often remain in search of a mirror stage because they metaphorically have yet to see true representations of themselves. hooks gives an example of this rare recognition through two characters in the film \"Passion of Remembrance\". She writes, \"Dressing to go to a party, Louise and Maggie claim the 'gaze'. Looking at one another, staring in mirrors, they appear completely focused on their encounter with black femaleness\".\n\nMulvey's criticisms present exclusionary perspectives which inundate the white female body as a totalizing categorization of all women. Not only is the representation of Black women significantly marginalized within film but they are further misrepresented as stereotyped objects to which the male gaze is rarely, if ever applied. This concept leads hooks to ask, \"Are we really to imagine that feminist theorists writing only about images of white women... do not 'see' the whiteness of the image?\".\n\nThe oppositional gaze serves as \"a gesture of resistance\" to not only the male gaze but also toward the oppression of minorities through cinema by the all-inclusive gendering of woman. This gaze criticizes the doubling effect of objectification by \"turning away [as] one way to protest, to reject negation\".\n\nJudith Butler theorizes the feminine gaze as \"a pervasive heterosexism in feminist theory\". In her essay \"The Question of Social Transformation\", Butler states, \"Through performativity, dominant and nondominant gender norms are equalized. But some of those performative accomplishments claim the place of nature or claim the place of symbolic necessity...\". These theories criticize the male gaze and its objectification of 'women' as it predominantly excludes more than just the Black oppositional gaze but further problematizes the subjectivity of gendering male verses female. Furthermore, 'woman' as heterogenous sex object functions for and within the patriarchy, reinforcing \"white supremacist capitalist imperialist dominating 'gaze'\"\n\nThe surrounding controversy of Édouard Manet's \"Olympia\" (1863) highlights the confrontational gaze as defiant and critical within the context of its time. However, there is a second gaze within this painting that is \"cooperating with the West's construction of not-white women as not-to-be-seen\". Olympia, pegged as a prostitute, makes direct eye contact with viewers while her 'black servant' \"looms in the shadows\" as background. In her essay titled, \"Olympia's Maid: Reclaiming Black Female Subjectivity\", Lorraine O'Grady states, \"...only the white body remains as the object of a voyeuristic, fetishizing male gaze. The not-white body has been made opaque by a blank stare...\".\n\nThis \"blank stare\" through a body of alterity reiterates bell hooks definition of the oppositional gaze. The deliberate characterization of the 'black servant' is ideologically rooted in the constructs of black female identity as Mammy, Jezebel, and Sapphire. As O'Grady declares, \"Forget euphemisms. Forget 'tonal contrast'. We know what she is meant for: she is Jezebel and Mammy, prostitute and female eunuch, the two-in-one\". Olympia's maid serves not only as the maid but as the opposing body of difference to whiteness; both visually and sexually. Within Freudian theory, people of color are \"symbolically and even theoretically excluded from sexual difference\".\n\nOlympia, although defiant as gazing prostitute, remains as a unitary sign of the female body in the West. \"It has an obverse and a reverse\". As hooks says, \"…[this] image functions solely to reaffirm and reinscribe patriarchy\". These comparative power relations conjure up opposing forces that transfer agency from one side to the 'other'. Michel Foucault insists that there is the possibility of resistance to domination and therefore an oppositional gaze exists. While Olympia confronts the male gaze, her maid confronts the repressed gaze, the oppositional gaze, and the gaze of recognition.\n"}
{"id": "25603863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25603863", "title": "Ordinary law", "text": "Ordinary law\n\nAn ordinary law is a normal law, generally distinguished from a constitutional law, organic law, or other similar law. Typically, ordinary laws are subordinate to constitutional and organic laws, and are more easily changed than constitutional or organic laws, though that should not be assumed to be the case in all jurisdictions. (For example, the Constitutional Court of Spain has ruled that Spain's Organic Laws are not hierarchically superior to ordinary laws, but simply apply to different matters.) Ordinary laws often govern areas beyond the scope of constitutional or organic laws.\n\nNormally, in a democracy, an ordinary law must first obtain a simple majority of a congress, parliament, or other legislature, and then be signed into law by the representative of executive power. The process leading to a legislative vote may vary vastly from one jurisdiction to another: the process may be initiated by either house of a bicameral legislature or from the sole house of a unicameral legislature; from the head of government or head of state; or by popular initiative. Different jurisdictions may allow ordinary laws to be proposed by one or all of these means, and may have restrictions on which body may take the initiative for certain types of laws (for example, in some bicameral systems, tax-related laws must begin in the lower chamber of the legislature). In some jurisdictions, the legislature has a means to override an executive veto by a supermajority, or the voting populace have the means to override a law by a referendum.\n\nUnder federal systems, ordinary laws may be created at the level of a sovereign state but also by its constituent components: for example, by states of the United States or autonomous communities of Spain.\n"}
{"id": "4866283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4866283", "title": "Para Tattva", "text": "Para Tattva\n\nPara Tattva (Sanskrit: पर तत्त्व) is a Sanskrit phrase meaning “Supreme Truth,” as studied, realized, worshipped and revealed by the saints of India's Vedic tradition. The root \"tat\" is equivalent to the English word “that,” while the suffix \"-tva\" is used like our suffix “-ness,” giving a sense of “that-ness,” commonly understood as truth or principle. \"Para\" is simply “supreme,” “transcendental” or “absolute,” in this context describing the principles of truth in a wholesome context.\n\nTwo very common conceptions in this day and age amongst students of the Vedas (which includes the core scriptures Rg, Sama, Yajur and Atharva, and may also extend into the vast body of associated peripheral works) are the Hindu tattvas of Brahman and Paramatman, which may be understood respectively as the witness-consciousness (Self as knower) and the Supersoul (supercontrolling Godhead). The mainstream Hindu social class in traditional Vedic culture is the functionary priesthood, and includes teachers and scribes as well as medical practitioners. Those Brahmanas who tend to be theonomous in nature but who relate to Deity more as the absolute Self in its wise or gnostic capacity may be called Brahma-vadis, meaning practitioners of Brahma-vada, the endorsement of Brahma-tattva.\n\nBrahmanas and Yogis (deeply meditative saints) who are more progressively theolatrous, whether exoterically or esoterically, may be called Paramatma-vadis. Their relationship with the Deity advances beyond theoretical knowledge of Self into the dynamics of what may be called absolute civilization. Their practice of cosmic consciousness comprehends ontological relationships between the Witness which is the relatively inferior Self and the supercontrolling Godhead, attunement with Whom is the prime requirement for entrance into the Kingdom of Heaven.\n\nThe Vaishnava school of Vedic theology emphasizes a third significant phase of Para Tattva beyond Brahman and Paramatma. Positioning themselves (the Vaishnavas) as authoritatively superior both socially and spiritually to a non-Vaishnavite Brahmin class, they claim that the real goal of a theistic saint is the Supreme Personality of Godhead, known as Bhagavan. Where Brahma-tattva tends to be perception oriented and Paramatma-tattva concerned with absolute functionality, the tattva of Bhagavan expands into explorations of quality, including and especially the superlative quality of glory which is the feature that reveals the Kingdom of Heaven, known to the Vaishnavas as Vaikuntha.\n\nOnce Bhagavan is recognized, reality may be comprehended sixfold, according to six essential qualities of divine personality. Where Vishnu is the Supreme Father, Lord of Vaikuntha, He actually has a qualitatively superlative aspect, where He is known as Lord Rama, the Supreme Personality of Godhead as personification of the highest quality of glory, Whose mood is actually more intimate and friendly. On the other hand, where Vishnu's absolute fatherhood leans more toward the relatively impersonal functionality of Paramatma, He becomes represented as Shiva, Who may be compared to the Holy Ghost. This phase is recognized by the Vaishnavas in terms of the quality of strength.\n\nBacking down the qualitative ladder from Bhagavan Lord Rama's superlative glory, through the strength represented by Paramatma Shiva, our study returns to the quality of wisdom or knowledge personified by Brahma, who is the first created Son of Father Vishnu, and may therefore be compared to the Christ. Understanding this much, then, gives us half the picture of Para Tattva, and is the framework of what may be called the right-handed path. Lord Rama (the original Vishnu) as Bhagavan is all-glorious, Shiva as Paramatma is all-powerful, and Brahma who is Brahma-tattva is all wise. Three qualities, however, remain to be examined.\n\nThe Vedic tradition initially portrays reality as fourfold, and this qualitative framework may gradually be comprehended in a broader context once the left-handed path is added to the relatively simplistic design which begins beneath Brahma's position and extends upwardly beyond Lord Rama's kingdom. The fourth aspect of Deity Whom we find beyond the glorious Rama is described by the Veda as the all-beautiful Krishna, Whose alluring pastimes are lovingly worshipped by many devotees all over the world. At the other extreme end of fourfold reality is a fifth entity known as Sudarshana, the original Chakra who is Lord Vishnu's weapon of absolute destruction and therefore represents the fifth quality of Bhagavan which is detachment.\n\nThus far we have covered five of six qualities of Bhagavan, which outline the traditional fourfold path: beauty (Krishna), glory (Rama), strength (Shiva), knowledge (Brahma) and detachment (Sudarshana). Now one last principle can be observed as connecting the two ends of our envisioned framework of reality, this being the quality of possession, which is personified by a lesser-known aspect of Bhagavan whose name is Chaitanya. Chaitanya is connected negatively through possessiveness to Sudarshana's detachment through his exhibition of renunciation, and positively through possessiveness to Krishna's beauty through loving devotion. In this way, Bhagavan realization advances our initial studies of Para Tattva into a full-circle comprehension of quality.\n\n"}
{"id": "9437281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9437281", "title": "Parable of the assassin", "text": "Parable of the assassin\n\nThe Parable of the Assassin (also known as the Parable of the Killer), is a parable attributed to Jesus. However, it appears in none of the Canonical gospels of the New Testament but only in the non-canonical Gospel of Thomas. According to the Gospel of Thomas 98 Jesus said:\n\nThe scholars of the Jesus Seminar gave the parable of the assassin a \"pink\" rating, indicating \nthat it is in their opinion probably, but not certainly, an authentic saying of Jesus. They were influenced by parallels with the parables of the tower builder and of the warring king found in the Gospel of Luke (see Counting the cost), and by the \"scandalous nature of the image.\" According to Robert Funk, \"[a]ttributing a parable to Jesus not attested in the canonical gospels and known only for a few years was an act of courage that demanded careful deliberation\". This decision by the Seminar has been criticized for inconsistency, since the parallel parable of the warring king in Luke was \"not\" given a pink rating. The authenticity of this parable has been attacked on the grounds that Jesus would not use a parable that glorifies murder, and because of its use of the phrase \"the kingdom of the father\" which is not found in the canonical gospels.\n\nLike the Lucan parables of the warring king and the tower, this parable seems to concern \"estimating the cost of an act or the capability to perform it successfully.\" In Mark 7:21–23, Jesus explains the idea of evil being rehearsed before taking place. \"For from within, out of the heart of men, proceed evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications, murders, thefts, covetousness, wickedness, deceit, lasciviousness, an evil eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness: all these evil things come from within, and defile the man.\" According to some of the fellows of the Jesus Seminar, \"the story line of the parable originally had to do with Davidic reversal, as in David and Goliath: the little guy bests the big guy by taking the precautions a prudent person would take before encountering the village bully\". A similar message can be found in the parable of the strong man.\n"}
{"id": "1262054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1262054", "title": "Persecution of Jews", "text": "Persecution of Jews\n\nPersecution of Jewish people has been a major part of Jewish history, prompting shifting waves of refugees throughout the diaspora communities.\n\nWhen Judea fell under the authority of the Seleucid Empire, the process of Hellenization was enforced by law. This effectively meant requiring pagan religious practice. In 167 BCE Jewish sacrifice was forbidden, sabbaths and feasts were banned and circumcision was outlawed. Altars to Greek gods were set up and animals prohibited to Jews were sacrificed on them. The Olympian Zeus was placed on the altar of the Temple. Possession of Jewish scriptures was made a capital offense.\n\nIn the Middle Ages antisemitism in Europe was religious. Although not part of Catholic dogma, many Christians, including members of the clergy, held the Jewish people collectively responsible for killing Jesus. As stated in the \"Boston College Guide to Passion Plays\", \"Over the course of time, Christians began to accept … that the Jewish people as a whole were responsible for killing Jesus. According to this interpretation, both the Jews present at Jesus Christ's death and the Jewish people collectively and for all time, have committed the sin of deicide, or \"god-killing\". For 1900 years of Christian-Jewish history, the charge of deicide has led to hatred, violence against and murder of Jews in Europe and America.\"\n\nDuring the High Middle Ages in Europe there was full-scale persecution in many places, with blood libels, expulsions, forced conversions and massacres. An underlying source of prejudice against Jews in Europe was religious. Jews were frequently massacred and exiled from various European countries. The persecution hit its first peak during the Crusades. In the First Crusade (1096) flourishing communities on the Rhine and the Danube were utterly destroyed, a prime example being the Rhineland massacres. In the Second Crusade (1147) the Jews in France were subject to frequent massacres. The Jews were also subjected to attacks by the Shepherds' Crusades of 1251 and 1320. The Crusades were followed by expulsions, including in 1290, the banishing of all English Jews; in 1396, 100,000 Jews were expelled from France; and, in 1421 thousands were expelled from Austria. Many of the expelled Jews fled to Poland.\n\nAs the Black Death epidemics devastated Europe in the mid-14th century, annihilating more than a half of the population, Jews were taken as scapegoats. Rumors spread that they caused the disease by deliberately poisoning wells. Hundreds of Jewish communities were destroyed by violence in the Black Death persecutions. Although Pope Clement VI tried to protect them by papal bull on July 6, 1348 - with another following later in 1348 - several months afterwards, 900 Jews were burnt alive in Strasbourg, where the plague hadn't yet affected the city.\n\nOne study finds that Jewish persecutions and expulsions increased with negative economic shocks and climactic variations in Europe over the period 1100-1600. The authors of the study argue that this stems from people blaming Jews for misfortunes and weak rulers going after Jewish wealth in times of fiscal crisis. The authors propose several explanations for why Jewish persecutions significantly declined after 1600:\nIn the Papal States, which existed until 1870, Jews were required to live only in specified neighborhoods called ghettos. Until the 1840s, they were required to regularly attend sermons urging their conversion to Christianity. Only Jews were taxed to support state boarding schools for Jewish converts to Christianity. It was illegal to convert from Christianity to Judaism. Sometimes Jews were baptized involuntarily, and, even when such baptisms were illegal, forced to practice the Christian religion. In many such cases, the state separated them from their families, of which the Edgardo Mortara account is one of the most widely publicized instances of acrimony between Catholics and Jews in the Papal States in the second half of the 19th century.\n\nAccording to Mark R. Cohen, during the rise of Islam, the first encounters between Muslims and Jews resulted in friendship when the Jews of Medina gave Muhammad refuge. Conflict arose when Muhammad expelled certain Jewish tribes after they refused to swear their allegiance to him and aided the Meccan Pagans. He adds that this encounter was an exception rather than a rule.\n\nTraditionally, Jews living in Muslim lands, known as dhimmis, were allowed to practice their religion and administer their internal affairs but were subjects to certain conditions. They had to pay the jizya (a per capita tax imposed on free adult non-Muslim males) to Muslims. Dhimmis had an inferior status under Islamic rule. They had several social and legal disabilities such as prohibitions against bearing arms or giving testimony in courts in cases involving Muslims. Contrary to popular belief, the Qur'an did not allow Muslims to force Jews to wear distinctive clothing. Obadiah the Proselyte reported in 1100 AD, that the Caliph had created this rule himself.\n\nResentment toward Jews perceived as having attained too lofty a position in Islamic society also fueled antisemitism and massacres. In Moorish Spain, ibn Hazm and Abu Ishaq focused their anti-Jewish writings on this allegation. This was also the chief motivation behind the 1066 Granada massacre, when \"[m]ore than 1,500 Jewish families, numbering 4,000 persons, fell in one day\", and in Fez in 1033, when 6,000 Jews were killed. There were further massacres in Fez in 1276 and 1465.\n\nIn the Zaydi imamate of Yemen, Jews were also singled out for discrimination in the 17th century, which culminated in the general expulsion of all Jews from places in Yemen to the arid coastal plain of Tihamah and which became known as the Mawza Exile.\n\nThe Damascus affair occurred in 1840 when a French monk and his servant disappeared in Damascus. Immediately following, a charge of ritual murder was brought against a large number of Jews in the city including children who were tortured. The consuls of the United Kingdom, France and Germany as well as Ottoman authorities, Christians, Muslims and Jews all played a great role in this affair.\nFollowing the Damascus affair, Pogroms spread through the Middle East and North Africa. Pogroms occurred in: Aleppo (1850, 1875), Damascus (1840, 1848, 1890), Beirut (1862, 1874), Dayr al-Qamar (1847), Jerusalem (1847), Cairo (1844, 1890, 1901–02), Mansura (1877), Alexandria (1870, 1882, 1901–07), Port Said (1903, 1908), Damanhur (1871, 1873, 1877, 1891), Istanbul (1870, 1874), Buyukdere (1864), Kuzguncuk (1866), Eyub (1868), Edirne (1872), Izmir (1872, 1874).\nThere was a massacre of Jews in Baghdad in 1828. There was another massacre in Barfurush in 1867.\n\nIn 1839, in the eastern Persian city of Meshed, a mob burst into the Jewish Quarter, burned the synagogue, and destroyed the Torah scrolls. This is known as the Allahdad incident. It was only by forcible conversion that a massacre was averted.\n\nIn Palestine there were riots and pogroms against Jews in 1920 and 1921. Tensions over the Western Wall in Jerusalem led to the 1929 Palestine riots, whose main victims were the ancient Jewish community at Hebron which came to an end.\n\nIn 1941, following Rashid Ali's pro-Axis coup, riots known as the \"Farhud\" broke out in Baghdad in which approximately 180 Jews were killed and about 240 were wounded, 586 Jewish-owned businesses were looted and 99 Jewish houses were destroyed.\n\nDuring the Holocaust, the Middle East was in turmoil. Britain prohibited Jewish immigration to the British Mandate of Palestine. In Cairo the Jewish Lehi (also known as the Stern Gang) assassinated Lord Moyne in 1944 fighting as part of its campaign against British closure of Palestine to Jewish immigration, complicating British-Arab-Jewish relations. While the Allies and the Axis were fighting for the oil-rich region, the Mufti of Jerusalem Amin al-Husayni staged a pro-Nazi coup in Iraq and organized the Farhud pogrom which marked the turning point for about 150,000 Iraqi Jews who, following this event and the hostilities generated by the war with Israel in 1948, were targeted for violence, persecution, boycotts, confiscations, and near complete expulsion in 1951. The coup failed and the mufti fled to Berlin, where he actively supported Hitler. In Egypt, with a Jewish population of about 75,000, young Anwar Sadat was imprisoned for conspiring with the Nazis and promised them that \"no British soldier would leave Egypt alive\" (see Military history of Egypt during World War II) leaving the Jews of that region defenseless. In the French Vichy territories of Algeria and Syria plans had been drawn up for the liquidation of their Jewish populations were the Axis powers to triumph.\n\nThe tensions of the Arab–Israeli conflict were also a factor in the rise of animosity to Jews all over the Middle East, as hundreds of thousands of Jews fled as refugees, the main waves being soon after the 1948 and 1956 wars. In reaction to the Suez Crisis of 1956, the Egyptian government expelled almost 25,000 Egyptian Jews and confiscated their property, and sent approximately 1,000 more Jews to prisons and detention camps. The population of Jewish communities of Muslim Middle East and North Africa was reduced from about 900,000 in 1948 to less than 8,000 today.\n\nOn March 2, 1974, the bodies of four Syrian Jewish girls were discovered by border police in a cave in the Zabdani Mountains northwest of Damascus. Fara Zeibak 24, her sisters Lulu Zeibak 23, Mazal Zeibak 22 and their cousin Eva Saad 18, had contracted with a band of smugglers to flee from Syria to Lebanon and eventually to Israel. The girl’s bodies were found raped, murdered and mutilated. The police also found the remains of two Jewish boys, Natan Shaya 18 and Kassem Abadi 20, victims of an earlier massacre. Syrian authorities deposited the bodies of all six in sacks before the homes of their parents in the Jewish ghetto in Damascus.\n\nThe persecution of Jews reached its most destructive form in the policies of Nazi Germany, which made the destruction of the Jews a priority, culminating in the killing of approximately 6,000,000 Jews during the Holocaust from 1941 to 1945. Originally, the Nazis used death squads, the Einsatzgruppen, to conduct massive open-air killings of Jews in territory that they conquered. By 1942, the Nazi leadership decided to implement the Final Solution, the genocide of the Jews of Europe, and to increase the pace of the Holocaust by establishing extermination camps specifically to kill Jews as well as other undesirables such as people who openly opposed Hitler.\n\nThis was an industrial method of genocide. Millions of Jews who had been confined to diseased and massively overcrowded ghettos were transported (often by train) to death camps, where some were herded into a specific location (often a gas chamber), then killed with either gassing or shooting. Other prisoners simply committed suicide, unable to go on after witnessing the horrors of camp life. Afterward, their bodies were often searched for any valuable or useful materials, such as gold fillings or hair, and their remains were then buried in mass graves or burned. Others were interned in the camps where they were given little food and disease was common.\n\nEscapes from the camps were few, but not unknown. The few Auschwitz escapes that succeeded were made possible by the Polish underground inside the camp and local people outside. In 1940, the Auschwitz commandant reported that \"the local population is fanatically Polish and … prepared to take any action against the hated SS camp personnel. Every prisoner who managed to escape can count on help the moment he reaches the wall of a first Polish farmstead.\"\n\nFor much of the 19th century, Imperial Russia, which included much of Poland, Ukraine, Moldova and Baltic states, contained the world's largest Jewish population. From Alexander III's reign until the end of Tsarist rule in Russia, many Jews were often restricted to the Jewish Pale of Settlement and they were also banned from many jobs and locations. Jews were subject to racist laws, such as the May Laws, and they were also targeted in hundreds of violent anti-Jewish riots, called pogroms, which received unofficial state support. It was during this period that a hoax document alleging a global Jewish conspiracy, \"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\", was created.\n\nThe Czarist government implemented programs which ensured that the Jews would remain isolated. However, the government tolerated their religious and national institutions as well as their right to emigrate. The restrictions and discriminatory laws drove many Russian Jews to embrace liberal and socialist causes. However, following the Russian Revolution many politically active Jews forfeited their Jewish identity. According to Leon Trotsky,\n\n[Jews] considered themselves neither Jews nor Russians but socialists. To them, Jews were not a nation but a class of exploiters whose fate it was to dissolve and assimilate.\n\nIn the aftermath of Czarist Russia, Jews found themselves in a tragic predicament. Conservative Russians saw them as a disloyal and subversive element and the radicals viewed the Jews as a doomed social class.\n\nEven though many of the Old Bolsheviks were ethnically Jewish, they sought to uproot Judaism and Zionism and established the \"Yevsektsiya\" in order to achieve this goal. By the end of the 1940s, the Communist leadership of the former USSR had liquidated almost all Jewish organizations, with the exception of a few token synagogues. These synagogues were then placed under police surveillance, both openly and through the use of informants.\n\nThe campaign of 1948–1953 against so-called \"rootless cosmopolitans,\" the alleged \"Doctors' plot,\" the rise of \"Zionology\" and subsequent activities of official organizations such as the Anti-Zionist committee of the Soviet public were officially carried out under the banner of \"anti-Zionism,\", and by the mid-1950s the state persecution of Soviet Jews emerged as a major human rights issue in the West as well as domestically.\n\nDuring the 1930s, many Nationalist Party leaders and wide sections of the Afrikaner people came strongly under the influence of the Nazi movement which dominated Germany from 1933 to 1945. There were many reasons for this. Germany was the traditional enemy of Britain, and whoever opposed Britain was seen as a friend of the Nationalists. Many Nationalists, moreover, believed that the opportunity to re-establish their lost republic would come with the defeat of the British Empire in the international arena. The more belligerent Hitler became, the higher hopes rose that a new era of Afrikanerdom was about to dawn.\n\nThe National Party of D F Malan closely associated itself with the policies of the Nazis. Jewish immigration from Eastern Europe was controlled under the Aliens Act and it soon came to an end during this period. Although Jews were accorded status as Europeans, they were not accepted into white society. The Kelvin Grove sports club, for example, had an exclusive Europeans Only and No Jews policy until recent times. Some 11 such sports clubs had similar policies. Many Jews lived in mixed race areas such as District Six, from where they were forcibly removed in order to make way for a whites-only development.\n\nIn 1936, Hendrick Verwoerd joined a deputation of six professors who were protesting against the admission to South Africa of Jewish refugees from Nazi Germany. Following the demands of the Nationalist Party, Eric Louw, later Foreign Minister, introduced another anti-Semitic bill that strongly resembled Nazi legislation - the Aliens Amendment and Immigration Bill of 1939. His bill was a means of suppressing all Jews. This bill suggested that Jews threatened to overpower Protestants in the business world, that they were innately cunning and manipulative and that they were also a danger to society. To support his claim, Louw maintained that Jews were involved in the Bolshevik Revolution and therefore intended to spread Communism worldwide. This bill defined Jews as anyone with parents who were at least partly Jewish regardless of actual religious faith or practices.\" \n\nAnother organization with which the Nationalists found much in common during the thirties was the 'South African Gentile National Socialist Movement', headed by Johannes von Strauss von Moltke, whose objective was to combat and destroy the alleged 'perversive influence of the Jews in economics, culture, religion, ethics, and statecraft and to re-establish European Aryan control in South Africa for the welfare of the Christian peoples of South Africa'.\n\nDuring the 1960s, Oswald Mosley, the British fascist leader, was a frequent visitor to South Africa, where he was received by the Prime Minister and other members of the Cabinet. At one time, Mosley had two functioning branches of his organization in South Africa, and one of his supporters, Derek Alexander, was stationed in Johannesburg as his main agent.\n\nUpon Verwoerd's assassination in 1966, BJ Vorster was elected by the National Party to replace him. While Vorster had been a supporter of Hitler during WWII, his policy towards Jews in his own country, however, can best be described as ambivalent.\nThe 1980s saw the rise of far-right neo-Nazi groups such as the Afrikaner Weerstandsbeweging under Eugene Terreblanche. The AWB modeled itself after Hitler's National Socialist Party replete with fascist regalia and an emblem resembling the swastika.\n"}
{"id": "4008941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4008941", "title": "Post-war", "text": "Post-war\n\nA post-war period or postwar period is the interval immediately following the end of a war. A post-war period can become an interwar period or interbellum, when a war between the same parties resumes at a later date (e.g., the period between World War I and World War II). By contrast, a post-war period marks the cessation of conflict entirely.\n\nIn Western usage, references to the post-war era or postwar era (sometimes capitalized) usually refer to the time since the end of World War II, although many nations involved in the Second World War have been involved in wars since.\n\nThe term \"post-war\" can have different meanings in different countries and refer to a period determined by local considerations based on the effect of the war there. In Britain, \"post-war\" refers to the period from the election of Clement Attlee in 1945 to that of Margaret Thatcher in 1979, a period of so-called post-war consensus, while it may also refer to a shorter period, ending in 1960 or shortly after and corresponding to the 1950s era, hence 1945–1960.\n\nConsidering the post-war era as equivalent to the Cold War era, post-war sometimes includes the 1980s, putting the end at December 1991, with the Dissolution of the Soviet Union. The 1990s and the 21st century are rarely considered to be part of the post-war era.\n\n"}
{"id": "52820644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52820644", "title": "Rothberger space", "text": "Rothberger space\n\nIn mathematics, a Rothberger space is a topological space that satisfies a certain a basic selection principle. A Rothberger space is a space in which for every sequence of open covers formula_1 of the space there are sets formula_2 such that the family formula_3 covers the space.\n\nIn 1938, Fritz Rothberger introduced his property known as formula_4.\n\nFor subsets of the real line, the Rothberger property can be characterized using continuous functions into the Baire space formula_5. A subset formula_6 of formula_5 is guessable if there is a function formula_8 such that the sets formula_9 are infinite for all functions formula_10. A subset of the real line is Rothberger iff every continuous image of that space into the Baire space is guessable. In particular, every subset of the real line of cardinality less than formula_11 is Rothberger.\n\nLet formula_12 be a topological space. The Rothberger game formula_13 played on formula_12 is a game with two players Alice and Bob.\n\n1st round: Alice chooses an open cover formula_15 of formula_12. Bob chooses a set formula_17.\n\n2nd round: Alice chooses an open cover formula_18 of formula_12. Bob chooses a finite set formula_20.\n\netc.\n\nIf the family formula_3 is a cover of the space formula_12, then Bob wins the game formula_13. Otherwise, Alice wins.\n\nA player has a winning strategy if he knows how to play in order to win the game formula_13 (formally, a winning strategy is a function).\n\n"}
{"id": "5456978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5456978", "title": "Sat (Sanskrit)", "text": "Sat (Sanskrit)\n\nSat () is a Sanskrit word meaning \"the true essence and that \"which is unchangeable\" of an entity, species or existence. \"Sat\" is a common prefix in ancient Indian literature and variously implies that which is good, true, virtuous, being, happening, real, existing, enduring, lasting, essential. In ancient texts, fusion words based on \"Sat\", refer to \"Universal Spirit, Universal Principle, Being, Soul of the World, Brahman\".\n\nIt can simply be said to be the present participle of the root \"as\" \"to be\" (PIE \"\"; cognate to English \"is\").\n\nThe concept is famously expressed in a mantra found in the (1.3.28),\n\n\"Sat\" is the root of many Sanskrit words and concepts such as \"sattva\" \"pure, truthful\" and \"satya\" \"truth\". As a prefix, in some context it means true and genuine; for example, sat-sastra means true doctrine, sat-van means one devoted to the true. At a suffix, in some context it implies time; for example, panka-sat which means fifty years.\n\nThe negation of \"sat\" is asat, a combination word of \"a\" and \"sat\". \"Asat\" refers to the opposite of \"sat\", that is delusion, distorted, untrue, fleeting impression that is incorrect, invalid and false.\n\nSat has several meanings or translations:\n\nSat may also refer to Citsvaru'pa, the Supreme consciousness, or Parama Purusha, the Supreme Being. \"Sat\" is one of the three characteristics of Brahman, as described in sat-chit-ananda.\n"}
{"id": "28822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28822", "title": "Sex worker", "text": "Sex worker\n\nA sex worker is a person who is employed in the sex industry. The term is used in reference to all those in all areas of the sex industry including those who provide direct sexual services as well as the staff and management of such industries. Some sex workers are paid to engage in sex acts or sexually explicit behavior which involve varying degrees of physical contact with clients (prostitutes and some but not all professional dominants); pornography models and actors engage in sexually explicit behavior which are filmed or photographed. Phone sex operators have sexually-oriented conversations with clients, and do auditive sexual roleplay.\n\nOther sex workers are paid to engage in live sexual performance, such as webcam sex and performers in live sex shows. Some sex workers perform erotic dances and other acts for an audience. These include: striptease, go-go dancing, lap dancing, neo-burlesque, and peep shows. Sexual surrogates work with psychoanalysts to engage in sexual activity as part of therapy with their clients. Thus, although the term \"sex worker\" is sometimes viewed as a synonym or euphemism for \"prostitute\", it is more general. \"Sex worker\" can refer to individuals who do not directly engage in sexual activity such as pole dancers, sex toy testers, and strip club managers. Another example of sex workers that would not fall under the term \"prostitute\" would be an adult talent manager, who negotiates and secures pornographic roles for clients. There are also erotic photographers who shoot and edit for adult media and porn reviewers who watch and rate adult films.\n\nSome people use the term \"sex worker\" to avoid invoking the stigma associated with the word \"prostitute\". Using the term \"sex worker\" rather than \"prostitute\" also allows more members of the sex industry to be represented and helps ensure that individuals who are actually prostitutes are not singled out and associated with the negative connotations of \"prostitute.\" In addition, choosing to use the term \"sex worker\" rather than \"prostitute\" shows ownership over the individuals' career choice. Some argue that those who prefer the term \"sex worker\" wish to separate their occupation from their person. Describing someone as a sex worker recognizes that the individual may have many different facets, and are not necessarily defined by their job.\n\nSex work is different from sexual exploitation, or the forcing of a person to commit sexual acts, in that sex work is voluntary \"and is seen as the commercial exchange of sex for money or goods\". In an attempt to further clarify the broad term that \"sex work\" is, John E. Exner, an American psychologist, worked with his colleagues to create five distinct classes for categorizing sex workers. One scholarly article details the classes as follows: \"specifically, the authors articulated Class I, or the upper class of the profession, consisting of call girls; Class II was referred to as the middle class, consisting of 'in-house girls' who typically work in an establishment on a commission basis; Class III, the lower middle class, were 'streetwalkers' whose fees and place of work fluctuate considerably; Class IV sex workers have been known as 'commuter housewives', and they are typically involved in sex work to supplement family income; and Class V consists of 'streetwalker addicts', or 'drugs-for-sex streetwalkers' who are considered the lower class of the profession.\"\n\nThe term \"sex worker\" was coined in 1978 by sex worker activist Carol Leigh. Its use became popularized after publication of the anthology, \"Sex Work: Writings By Women In The Sex Industry\" in 1987, edited by Frédérique Delacoste and Priscilla Alexander. The term \"sex worker\" has since spread into much wider use, including in academic publications, by NGOs and labor unions, and by governmental and intergovernmental agencies, such as the World Health Organization. The term is listed in the Oxford English Dictionary and Merriam-Webster's Dictionary.\n\nThe term is strongly opposed, however, by many who are morally opposed to the sex industry, such as social conservatives, anti-prostitution feminists, and other prohibitionists. Such groups view prostitution variously as a crime or as victimization, and see the term \"sex work\" as legitimizing criminal activity or exploitation as a type of labor.\n\nSex workers may be any gender and exchange sexual services or favors for money or other gifts. The motives of sex workers vary widely and can include debt, coercion, survival, or simply as a way to earn a living. Sexual empowerment is another possible reasons why people engage in sex work. One Canadian study found that a quarter of the sex workers interviewed started sex work because they found it \"appealing\". The flexibility to choose hours of work and ability to select their own client base may also contribute the appeal of sex work when compared to other service industry jobs. Sex work may also be a way to fund addiction. This line of work can be fueled by an individual's addiction to illegal substances before entering the industry or being introduced to these substances after entering the industry. These motives also align with varying climates surrounding sex work in different communities and cultures. In some cases, sex work is linked to tourism. Sex work can take the form of prostitution, stripping or lap dancing, performance in pornography, phone or internet sex, or any other exchange of sexual services for financial or material gain. The variety in the tasks encompassed by sex work lead to a large range in both severity and nature of risks that sex workers face in their occupations. Sex workers can act independently as individuals, work for a company or corporation, or work as part of a brothel. All of the above can be undertaken either by free choice or by coercion. Sex workers may also be hired to be companions on a trip or to perform sexual services within the context of a trip; either of these can be voluntary or forced labor. Transgender people are more likely than the general population to do sex work, particularly trans women and trans people of color. In a study of female Indian sex workers, illiteracy and lower social status were more prevalent than among the general female population.\n\nMany studies struggle to gain demographic information about the prevalence of sex work, as many countries or cities have laws prohibiting prostitution or other sex work. In addition, sex trafficking, or forced sex work, is also difficult to quantify due to its underground and covert nature. In addition, finding a representative sample of sex workers in a given city can be nearly impossible because the size of the population itself is unknown. Maintaining privacy and confidentiality in research is also difficult because many sex workers may face prosecution and other consequences if their identities are revealed.\n\nWhile demographic characteristics of sex workers vary by region and are hard to measure, some studies have attempted to estimate the composition of the sex work communities in various places. For example, one study of sex work in Tijuana, Mexico found that the majority of sex workers there are young, female and heterosexual. Many of these studies attempt to use smaller samples of sex workers and pimps in order to extrapolate about larger populations of sex workers. One report on the underground sex trade in the United States used known data on the illegal drug and weapon trades and interviews with sex workers and pimps in order to draw conclusions about the number of sex workers in eight American cities. However, studies like this one can come under scrutiny for a perceived emphasis on the activities and perspectives of pimps rather than those of sex workers themselves. Another criticism is that sex trafficking may not be adequately assessed in its relation to sex work in these studies.\n\nDepending on local law, sex workers' activities may be regulated, controlled, tolerated, or prohibited. In most countries, even those where sex work is legal, sex workers may be stigmatized and marginalized, which may prevent them from seeking legal redress for discrimination (e.g., racial discrimination by a strip club owner), non-payment by a client, assault or rape. Sex worker advocates have identified this as whorephobia.\n\nThe legality of different types of sex work varies within and between regions of the world. For example, while pornography is legal in the United States, prostitution is illegal in most parts of the US. However, in other regions of the world, both pornography and prostitution are illegal; in others, both are legal. One example of a country in which pornography, prostitution, and all professions encompassed under the umbrella of sex work are all legal is New Zealand. Under the Prostitution Reform Act of New Zealand, laws and regulations have been put into place in order to ensure the safety and protection of its sex workers. For example, since the implementation of the Prostitution Reform Act, \"any person seeking to open a larger brothel, where more than four sex workers will be working requires a Brothel Operators Certificate, which certifies them as a suitable person to exercise control over sex workers in the workplace. [In addition,] sex workers operating in managed premises have access to labour rights and human rights protection and can pursue claims before the courts, like any other worker or employee.\" In regions where sex work is illegal, advocates for sex workers' rights argue that the covert nature of illegal prostitution is a barrier to access to legal resources. However, some who oppose the legalization of prostitution argue that sex work is inherently exploitative and can never be legalized or practiced in a way that respects the rights of those who perform it.\n\nThere are many arguments against legalizing prostitution/sex work. In one study, women involved in sex work were interviewed and asked if they thought it should be made legal. They answered that they thought it should not, as it would put women at higher risk from violent customers if it were considered legitimate work, and they would not want their friends or family entering the sex industry to earn money. Another argument is that legalizing sex work would increase the demand for it, and women should not be treated as sexual merchandise. A study showed that in countries that have legalized prostitution, there was an increase in child prostitution. An argument against legalizing sex work is to keep children from being involved in this industry. The studies also showed that legalizing sex work lead to an increase in sex trafficking, which is another reason people give for making sex work illegal.\n\nThere are also arguments for legalizing prostitution/sex work. One major argument for legalizing prostitution is that women should have a right to do what they want with their own bodies. The government should not have a say in what they do for work, and if they want to sell their bodies it is their own decision. Another common argument for legalizing prostitution is that enforcing prostitution laws is a waste of money. This is because prostitution has always, and will continue to persist despite whatever laws and regulations are implemented against it. In arguing for the decriminalization of sex work, the Minister of Justice of the Netherlands expanded upon this argument in court when stating that, \"prostitution has existed for a long time and will continue to do so…Prohibition is not the way to proceed…One should allow for voluntary prostitution. The authorities can then regulate prostitution, [and] it can become healthy, safe, transparent, and cleansed from criminal side-effects.\" People who wish to legalize prostitution do not see enforcing laws against sex work as effective and think the money is better spent elsewhere. Many people also argue that legalization of prostitution will lead to less harm for the sex workers. They argue that the decriminalization of sex work will decrease the exploitation of sex workers by third parties such as pimps and managers. A final argument for the legalization of sex work is that prostitution laws are unconstitutional. Some argue that these laws go against people's rights to free speech, privacy, etc.\n\nRisk reduction in sex work is a highly debated topic. \"Abolitionism\" and \"nonabolitionism\" or \"empowerment\" are regarded as opposing ways in which risk reduction is approached. While abolitionism would call for an end to all sex work, empowerment would encourage the formation of networks among sex workers and enable them to prevent STIs and other health risks by communicating with each other. Both approaches aim to reduce rates of disease and other negative effects of sex work.\n\nIn addition, sex workers themselves have disputed the dichotomous nature of abolitionism and nonabolitionism, advocating instead a focus on sex workers' rights. In 1999, the Network of Sex Worker Projects claimed that \"Historically, anti-trafficking measures have been more concerned with protecting 'innocent' women from becoming prostitutes than with ensuring the human rights of those in the sex industry. Penelope Saunders, a sex workers' rights advocate, claims that the sex workers' rights approach considers more of the historical context of sex work than either abolitionism or empowerment. In addition, Jo Doezema has written that the dichotomy of the voluntary and forced approaches to sex work has served to deny sex workers agency.\n\nSex workers are unlikely to disclose their work to healthcare providers. This can be due to embarrassment, fear of disapproval, or a disbelief that sex work can have effects on their health. The criminalization of sex work in many places can also lead to a reluctance to disclose for fear of being turned in for illegal activities. There are very few legal protections for sex workers due to criminalization; thus, in many cases, a sex worker reporting violence to a healthcare provider may not be able to take legal action against their aggressor.\n\nHealth risks of sex work relate primarily to sexually transmitted infections and to drug use. In one study, nearly 40% of sex workers who visited a health center reported illegal drug use. In general, transgender women sex workers have a higher risk of contracting HIV than male and female sex workers and transgender women who are not sex workers.\n\nThe reason transgender women are at higher risk for developing HIV is their combination of risk factors. They face biological, personal, relational, and structural risks that all increase their chances of getting HIV. Biological factors include incorrect condom usage because of erectile disfunction from hormones taken to become more feminine and receptive anal intercourse without a condom which is a high risk for developing HIV. Personal factors include mental health issues that lead to increased sexual risk, such as anxiety, depression, and substance abuse provoked through lack of support, violence, etc. Structural risks include involvement in sex work being linked to poverty, substance abuse, and other factors that are more prevalent in transgender women based on their tendency to be socially marginalized and not accepted for challenging gender norms. The largest risk for HIV is unprotected sex with male partners, and studies have been emerging that show men who have sex with transgender women are more likely to use drugs than men that do not.\n\nCondom use is one way to mitigate the risk of contracting an STI. However, negotiating condom use with one's clients and partners is often an obstacle to practicing safer sex. While there is not much data on rates of violence against sex workers, many sex workers do not use condoms due to the fear of resistance and violence from clients. Some countries also have laws prohibiting condom possession; this reduces the likelihood that sex workers will use condoms. Increased organization and networking among sex workers has been shown to increase condom use by increasing access to and education about STI prevention. Brothels with strong workplace health practices, including the availability of condoms, have also increased condom use among their workers.\n\nHealth Concerns of Exotic Dancers<br>\"Mental Health and Stigma\"<br>In order to protect themselves from the stigma of sex work, many dancers resort to othering themselves. Othering involves constructing oneself as superior to one's peers, and the dancer persona provides an internal boundary that separates the \"authentic\" from the stripper self. This practice creates a lot of stress for the dancers, in turn leading many to resort to using drugs and alcohol to cope. Since it is so widespread, the use of drugs has become normalized in the exotic dance scene.<br>Despite this normalization, passing as nonusers, or covering as users of less maligned drugs, is necessary. This is because strippers concurrently attribute a strong moral constitution to those that resist the drug atmosphere; it is a testament to personal strength and will power. It is also an occasion for dancers to \"other\" fellow strippers. Valorizing resistance to the drug space discursively positions \"good\" strippers against such a drug locale and indicates why dancers are motivated to closet hard drug use.<br>Stigma causes strippers to hide their lifestyles from friends and family alienating themselves from a support system. Further, the stress of trying to hide their lifestyles from others due to fear of scrutiny affects the mental health of dancers. Stigma is a difficult area to address because it is more abstract, but it would be helpful to work toward normalizing sex work as a valid way of making a living. This normalization of sex work would relieve the stress many dancers experience increasing the likelihood that they will be open about their work. Being open will allow them access to a viable support system and reduce the othering and drug use so rampant in the sex industry.\n\nForced sex work is when an individual enters into any sex trade due to coercion rather than by choice. Forced sex work increases the likelihood that a sex worker will contract HIV/AIDS or another sexually transmitted infection, particularly when an individual enters sex work before the age of 18. In addition, even when sex workers do consent to certain sex acts, they are often forced or coerced into others (often anal intercourse) by clients. Sex workers may also experience strong resistance to condom use by their clients, which may extend into a lack of consent by the worker to any sexual act performed in the encounter; this risk is magnified when sex workers are trafficked or forced into sex work.\n\nForced sex work often involves deception - workers are told that they can make a living and are then not allowed to leave. This deception can cause ill effects on the mental health of many sex workers. In addition, an assessment of studies estimates that between 40% and 70% of sex workers face violence within a year. Currently, there is little support for migrant workers in many countries, including those who have been trafficked to a location for sex.\n\nSex worker's rights advocates argue that sex workers should have the same basic human and labor rights as other working people. For example, the Canadian Guild for Erotic Labour calls for the legalization of sex work, the elimination of state regulations that are more repressive than those imposed on other workers and businesses, the right to recognition and protection under labour and employment laws, the right to form and join professional associations or unions, and the right to legally cross borders to work. Advocates also want to see changes in legal practices involving sex work, the Red Umbrella Project has pushed for the decriminalization of condoms and changes to New York's sex workers diversion program. Advocacy for the interests of sex workers can come from a variety of sources, including non-governmental organizations, labor rights organizations, governments, or sex workers themselves. Each year in London The Sexual Freedom Awards is held to honor the most notable advocates and pioneers of sexual freedom and sex workers' rights in the UK, where sex work is essentially legal.\n\nThe unionization of sex workers is a recent development. The first organization within the contemporary sex workers' rights movement was Call Off Your Old Tired Ethics (COYOTE), founded in 1973 in San Francisco, California. Many organizations in Western countries were established in the decade after the founding of COYOTE. Currently, a small number of sex worker unions exist worldwide. One of the largest is the International Union of Sex Workers, headquartered in the United Kingdom. The IUSW advocates for the rights of all sex workers, whether they chose freely or were coerced to enter the trade, and promotes policies that benefit the interests of sex workers both in the UK and abroad. Many regions are home to sex worker unions, including Latin America, Brazil, Canada, Europe, and Africa.\n\nIn unionizing, many sex workers face issues relating to communication and to the legality of sex work. Because sex work is illegal in many places where they wish to organize, it is difficult to communicate with other sex workers in order to organize. There is also concern with the legitimacy of sex work as a career and an activity that merits formal organizing, largely because of the sexism often present in sex work and the devaluation of sex work as not comparable to other paid labor and employment.\n\nA factor affecting the unionization of sex work is that many sex workers belong to populations that historically have not had a strong representation in labor unions. While this unionization can be viewed as a way of empowering sex workers and granting them agency within their profession, it is also criticized as implicitly lending its approval to sexism and power imbalances already present in sex work. Unionization also implies a submission to or operation within the systems of capitalism, which is of concern to some feminists.\n\n\"Independent contractor vs Employee\"<br>Performers in general are problematic to categorize because they often exercise a high level of control over their work product, one characteristic of an independent contractor. Additionally, their work can be artistic in nature and often done on a freelance basis. Often, the work of performers does not possess the obvious attributes of employees such as regular working hours, places or duties. Consequently, employers misclassify them because they are unsure of their workers' status, or they purposely misclassify them to take advantage of independent contractors' low costs. Exotic dance clubs are one such employer that purposely misclassify their performers as independent contractors.<br>There are additional hurdles in terms of self-esteem and commitment to unionize. On the most basic level, dancers themselves must have the desire to unionize for collective action. For those who wish not to conform to group activity or want to remain independent, a union may seem as controlling as club management since joining a union would obligate them to pay dues and abide by decisions made through majority vote, with or without their personal approval.<br>In the \"Lusty Lady\" case study, this strip club was the first all woman managed club to successfully unionize in 1996. Some of the working conditions they were able to address included \"protest[ing] racist hiring practices, customers being allowed to videotape dancers without their consent via one-way mirrors, inconsistent disciplinary policies, lack of health benefits, and an overall dearth of job security\". Unionizing exotic dancers can certainly bring better work conditions and fair pay, but it is difficult to do at times because of their dubious employee categorization. Also, as is the case with many other unions, dancers are often reluctant to join them. This reluctance can be due to many factors, ranging from the cost of joining a union to the dancers believing they do not need union support because they will not be exotic dancers for a long enough period of time to justify joining a union.\n\nNGOs often play a large role in outreach to sex workers, particularly in HIV and STI prevention efforts. However, NGO outreach to sex workers for HIV prevention is sometimes less coordinated and organized than similar HIV prevention programs targeted at different groups (such as men who have sex with men). This lack of organization may be due to the legal status of prostitution and other sex work in the country in question; in China, many sex work and drug abuse NGOs do not formally register with the government and thus run many of their programs on a small scale and discreetly.\n\nWhile some NGOs have increased their programming to improve conditions within the context of sex work, these programs are criticized at times due to their failure to dismantle the oppressive structures of prostitution, particularly forced trafficking. Some scholars believe that advocating for rights within the institution of prostitution is not enough; rather, programs that seek to empower sex workers must empower them to leave sex work as well as improve their rights within the context of sex work.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20845132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20845132", "title": "Strengths and weaknesses (personality)", "text": "Strengths and weaknesses (personality)\n\nStrengths and weaknesses generally refer to a person's character.\n\nOften a strength can be a weakness, and vice versa, a weakness can be a strength. In Chinese philosophy, yin and yang (e.g., dark and light) are described as complementary opposites within a greater whole. \n\nFor example, here are some opportunity and weaknesses by personality type.\n\n"}
{"id": "39511219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39511219", "title": "Sue Shelton White", "text": "Sue Shelton White\n\nSue Shelton White (May 25, 1887 – May 6, 1943), called Miss Sue, was a feminist leader and lawyer originally from Henderson, Tennessee who served as a national leader of the women's suffrage movement.\nSue Shelton White was born on May 25, 1887, in Henderson, Tennessee, the second of three children of James Shelton White and Mary Calista (Swain) White. Her father, a lawyer and Methodist minister, died when she was nine. When her mother died four years later, White went to live with an aunt. When she was sixteen she took a teacher training course at Georgia Robertson Christian College (now Freed Hardman University) and the following year (1904-1905) attended West Tennessee Business College. She started her career as a court reporter.\n\nWhite eventually became the recording secretary of the Tennessee Equal Suffrage Association, and the Tennessee state chair of the National Woman's Party.\n\nWhite joined the woman suffrage movement in 1912. She was originally active in the moderate Tennessee Equal Suffrage Association (an affiliate of the National American Woman Suffrage Association), and was elected recording secretary for that organization in 1913, but gradually concluded that Alice Paul and Lucy Burns' more radical National Woman's Party, whose speaking tour through Tennessee by Maud Younger she had helped facilitate, was advocating policies and methods which would be more effective. She joined the NWP in 1918, became chair of the Tennessee chapter, and moved to Washington, D.C., where she edited the organization's newspaper, \"The Suffragist\".\n\nWith other members of the NWP, White drew national attention when on February 19, 1919, they held the latest of their Silent Sentinels series of demonstrations in front of the White House and burned a paper effigy of President Woodrow Wilson (which White herself dropped into the fire) to protest Wilson's lack of energy in pressuring balky Senators of his own party. White, with others, was arrested and jailed. After her release, White and others like her chartered a railroad car they called the \"Prison Special,\" which toured the United States to keep the issue of suffrage before the public.\n\nAfter Congress passed the 19th Amendment on June 4, 1919, White returned home and helped Tennessee achieve ratification.\n\nFrom 1920 to 1926, White served as an administrative secretary running the Washington office of Tennessee Kenneth McKeller.\n\nIn 1923, White earned a law degree from Washington College of Law. Three years later, she returned to Jackson, TN as the city’s first female attorney and to work for her own law firm, Anderson and White.\n\nIn 1928, white worked with the Midwestern division of the Democratic National Committee. At request of Eleanor Roosevelt, White also helped organize a Tennessee Business and Professional Women's League for Alfred E. Smith.\n\nShe worked in the 1932 presidential campaign of Franklin Delano Roosevelt, and from 1934 (when she moved to Washington, D.C.) held a variety of posts in the New Deal, culminating in her role as principal counsel of the Social Security Administration.\n\nAfter a long bout with cancer, White died on May 6, 1943, at the Alexandria, Virginia, home she shared with Florence Armstrong, her long-term friend.\n\nOn August 26, 2016, as part of Women's Equality Day, a monument by Alan LeQuire was unveiled in Centennial Park in Nashville, featuring depictions of White, Carrie Chapman Catt, Anne Dallas Dudley, Abby Crawford Milton, and Juno Frankie Pierce.\n\nThere is a bust of White by Wanda Stanfill at the Jackson City Hall Plaza; it is part of the Tennessee Woman Suffrage Heritage Trail, and was placed as part of the centennial celebration of the 19th Amendment.\n\nThe Sue Shelton White Award is given annually \"to an outstanding attorney in West Tennessee who is a community activist working to create or change legislation to improve the lives of women and children in the state of Tennessee.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "206583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206583", "title": "Suffering", "text": "Suffering\n\nSuffering, or pain in a broad sense, may be an experience of unpleasantness and aversion associated with the perception of harm or threat of harm in an individual. Suffering is the basic element that makes up the negative valence of affective phenomena. The opposite of suffering is pleasure or happiness.\n\nSuffering is often categorized as physical or mental. It may come in all degrees of intensity, from mild to intolerable. Factors of duration and frequency of occurrence usually compound that of intensity. Attitudes toward suffering may vary widely, in the sufferer or other people, according to how much it is regarded as avoidable or unavoidable, useful or useless, deserved or undeserved.\n\nSuffering occurs in the lives of sentient beings in numerous manners, often dramatically. As a result, many fields of human activity are concerned with some aspects of suffering. These aspects may include the nature of suffering, its processes, its origin and causes, its meaning and significance, its related personal, social, and cultural behaviors, its remedies, management, and uses.\n\nThe word \"suffering\" is sometimes used in the narrow sense of physical pain, but more often it refers to mental pain, or more often yet it refers to pain in the broad sense, i.e. to any unpleasant feeling, emotion or sensation. The word \"pain\" usually refers to physical pain, but it is also a common synonym of \"suffering\". The words \"pain\" and \"suffering\" are often used both together in different ways. For instance, they may be used as interchangeable synonyms. Or they may be used in 'contradistinction' to one another, as in \"pain is physical, suffering is mental\", or \"pain is inevitable, suffering is optional\". Or they may be used to define each other, as in \"pain is physical suffering\", or \"suffering is severe physical or mental pain\".\n\nQualifiers, such as \"physical\", \"mental\", \"emotional\", and \"psychological\", are often used to refer to certain types of pain or suffering. In particular, \"mental pain (or suffering)\" may be used in relationship with \"physical pain (or suffering)\" for distinguishing between two wide categories of pain or suffering. A first caveat concerning such a distinction is that it uses \"physical pain\" in a sense that normally includes not only the 'typical sensory experience of physical pain' but also other unpleasant bodily experiences including air hunger, hunger, vestibular suffering, nausea, sleep deprivation, and itching. A second caveat is that the terms \"physical\" or \"mental\" should not be taken too literally: physical pain or suffering, as a matter of fact, happens through conscious minds and involves emotional aspects, while mental pain or suffering happens through physical brains and, being an emotion, involves important physiological aspects.\n\nThe word \"unpleasantness\", which some people use as a synonym of \"suffering\" or \"pain\" in the broad sense, may be used to refer to the basic affective dimension of pain (its suffering aspect), usually in contrast with the sensory dimension, as for instance in this sentence: \"Pain-unpleasantness is often, though not always, closely linked to both the intensity and unique qualities of the painful sensation.\" Other current words that have a definition with some similarity to \"suffering\" include \"distress, unhappiness, misery, affliction, woe, ill, discomfort, displeasure, disagreeableness\".\n\nHedonism, as an ethical theory, claims that good and bad consist ultimately in pleasure and pain. Many hedonists, in accordance with Epicurus and contrarily to popular perception of his doctrine, advocate that we should first seek to avoid suffering and that the greatest pleasure lies in a robust state of profound tranquility (ataraxia) that is free from the worrisome pursuit or the unwelcome consequences of ephemeral pleasures.\n\nFor Stoicism, the greatest good lies in reason and virtue, but the soul best reaches it through a kind of indifference (apatheia) to pleasure and pain: as a consequence, this doctrine has become identified with stern self-control in regard to suffering.\nJeremy Bentham developed hedonistic utilitarianism, a popular doctrine in ethics, politics, and economics. Bentham argued that the right act or policy was that which would cause \"the greatest happiness of the greatest number\". He suggested a procedure called hedonic or felicific calculus, for determining how much pleasure and pain would result from any action. John Stuart Mill improved and promoted the doctrine of hedonistic utilitarianism. Karl Popper, in \"The Open Society and Its Enemies\", proposed a negative utilitarianism, which prioritizes the reduction of suffering over the enhancement of happiness when speaking of utility: \"I believe that there is, from the ethical point of view, no symmetry between suffering and happiness, or between pain and pleasure. (...) human suffering makes a direct moral appeal for help, while there is no similar call to increase the happiness of a man who is doing well anyway.\" David Pearce, for his part, advocates a utilitarianism that aims straightforwardly at the abolition of suffering through the use of biotechnology (see more details below in section Biology, neurology, psychology). Another aspect worthy of mention here is that many utilitarians since Bentham hold that the moral status of a being comes from its ability to feel pleasure and pain: therefore, moral agents should consider not only the interests of human beings but also those of (other) animals. Richard Ryder came to the same conclusion in his concepts of 'speciesism' and 'painism'. Peter Singer's writings, especially the book \"Animal Liberation\", represent the leading edge of this kind of utilitarianism for animals as well as for people.\n\nAnother doctrine related to the relief of suffering is humanitarianism (see also humanitarian principles, humanitarian aid, and humane society). \"Where humanitarian efforts seek a positive addition to the happiness of sentient beings, it is to make the unhappy happy rather than the happy happier. (...) [Humanitarianism] is an ingredient in many social attitudes; in the modern world it has so penetrated into diverse movements (...) that it can hardly be said to exist in itself.\"\n\nPessimists hold this world to be mainly bad, or even the worst possible, plagued with, among other things, unbearable and unstoppable suffering. Some identify suffering as the nature of the world, and conclude that it would be better if life did not exist at all. Arthur Schopenhauer recommends us to take refuge in things like art, philosophy, loss of the will to live, and tolerance toward 'fellow-sufferers'.\n\nFriedrich Nietzsche, first influenced by Schopenhauer, developed afterward quite another attitude, arguing that the suffering of life is productive, exalting the will to power, despising weak compassion or pity, and recommending us to embrace willfully the 'eternal return' of the greatest sufferings. \n\nPhilosophy of pain is a philosophical specialty that focuses on physical pain and is, through that, relevant to suffering in general.\n\nSuffering plays an important role in a number of religions, regarding matters such as the following: consolation or relief; moral conduct (do no harm, help the afflicted, show compassion); spiritual advancement through life hardships or through self-imposed trials (mortification of the flesh, penance, ascetism); ultimate destiny (salvation, damnation, hell). Theodicy deals with the problem of evil, which is the difficulty of reconciling the existence of an omnipotent and benevolent god with the existence of evil: a quintessential form of evil, for many people, is extreme suffering, especially in innocent children, or in creatures destined to an eternity of torments (see problem of hell).\n\nThe 'Four Noble Truths' of Buddhism are about dukkha, a term often translated as suffering. They state the nature of suffering, its cause, its cessation, and the way leading to its cessation, the Noble Eightfold Path. Buddhism considers liberation from \"dukkha\" and the practice of compassion (karuna) as basic for leading a holy life and attaining nirvana.\n\nHinduism holds that suffering follows naturally from personal negative behaviors in one’s current life or in a past life (see karma in Hinduism). One must accept suffering as a just consequence and as an opportunity for spiritual progress. Thus the soul or true self, which is eternally free of any suffering, may come to manifest itself in the person, who then achieves liberation (moksha). Abstinence from causing pain or harm to other beings (ahimsa) is a central tenet of Hinduism. Suffering is thought to be an inclusive effect of human experience. Beyond this, Hindus are looking to achieve enlightenment and end human suffering by answering questions about life. This will lead to a unity in God as well as find the meaning of their suffering, ultimately achieving bliss.\n\nChristianity also believes that human suffering plays an important role in religion. Suffering is only to be thought of as a positive experience in the case of achieving a higher meaning of life, such as Jesus suffering for the lives of other people as was the case during the atonement. Suffering is the time to find God and value faith while doing so. This allows Christians to face reality of human experience with suffering and find an understanding in the divine.\n\nHinduism and Christianity embrace similar aspects in suffering. Both religions realize the need for God as well as the moral significance for God that suffering provides. This allows enlightenment to be reached and suffering to be seen in the conditions that faith entails rather than an issue. These human experiences with suffering in both Hinduism and Christianity help educators to emphasize the need for dialogue and religious education in schools.\n\nIn Islam, the faithful must endure suffering with hope and faith, not resist or ask why, accept it as Allah's will and submit to it as a test of faith (Allah never asks more than can be endured). One must also work to alleviate suffering of others, as well as one's own. Suffering is also seen as a blessing in Islam for the mankind . Through the gift of suffering the Veil of Forgetfulness is torn apart and the sufferer remembers God and connects with him. When people suffer God makes them think of him. Several Islamic Prophet Muhammad's traditions state that, suffering expunges the sins of mankind and cleanses their soul for the immense reward in afterlife.\n\nThe Bible's Book of Job reflects on the nature and meaning of suffering. It is supplemented in the Hebrew bible by the passages found in the Book of Isaiah and the Book of Jeremiah which elaborate the emotional and physical suffering of a conquered nation with its vanquished inhabitants forced into the suffering of exile and captivity in a foreign land.\n\nIn the New Testament, suffering is portrayed both in the life of Jesus portrayed in the Synoptics, which narrate the suffering of the crucifixion, and in the post-Easter narratives. The suffering associated with punishment is further portrayed in the Apocalypse of John where suffering at the scene of the Last Judgment is depicted as the just recompense for sin and wrongdoing. Pope John Paul II wrote \"On the Christian Meaning of Human Suffering\". This meaning revolves around the notion of redemptive suffering.\n\nAccording to the Bahá'í Faith, all suffering is a brief and temporary manifestation of physical life, whose source is the material aspects of physical existence, and often attachment to them, whereas only joy exists in the spiritual worlds. In the words of `Abdu'l-Bahá, \"All these examples are to show you that the trials which beset our every step, all our sorrow, pain, shame and grief, are born in the world of matter; whereas the spiritual Kingdom never causes sadness. A man living with his thoughts in this Kingdom knows perpetual joy. The ills all flesh is heir to do not pass him by, but they only touch the surface of his life, the depths are calm and serene.\" (Paris Talks, p. 110).\n\nArtistic and literary works often engage with suffering, sometimes at great cost to their creators or performers. The Literature, Arts, and Medicine Database offers a list of such works under the categories art, film, literature, and theater. Be it in the tragic, comic or other genres, art and literature offer means to alleviate (and perhaps also exacerbate) suffering, as argued for instance in Harold Schweizer's \"Suffering and the remedy of art\".\n\nThis Brueghel painting is among those that inspired W. H. Auden's poem Musée des Beaux Arts :\n\n\"About suffering they were never wrong,\" <br>\n\"The Old Masters; how well, they understood\" <br>\n\"Its human position; how it takes place\" <br>\n\"While someone else is eating or opening a window or just walking dully along;\"<br>\n\"(...)\"<br>\n\"In Breughel's Icarus, for instance: how everything turns away\" <br>\n\"Quite leisurely from the disaster; (...)\"\n\n\"Social suffering\", according to Arthur Kleinman and others, describes \"collective and individual human suffering associated with life conditions shaped by powerful social forces\". Such suffering is an increasing concern in medical anthropology, ethnography, mass media analysis, and Holocaust studies, says Iain Wilkinson, who is developing a sociology of suffering.\n\nThe \"Encyclopedia of World Problems and Human Potential\" is a work by the Union of International Associations. Its main databases are about world problems (56,564 profiles), global strategies and solutions (32,547 profiles), human values (3,257 profiles), and human development (4,817 profiles). It states that \"the most fundamental entry common to the core parts is that of pain (or suffering)\" and \"common to the core parts is the learning dimension of new understanding or insight in response to suffering\".\n\nRalph G.H. Siu, an American author, urged in 1988 the \"creation of a new and vigorous academic discipline, called panetics, to be devoted to the study of the infliction of suffering\", The International Society for Panetics was founded in 1991 to study and develop ways to reduce the infliction of human suffering by individuals acting through professions, corporations, governments, and other social groups.\n\nIn economics, the following notions relate not only to the matters suggested by their positive appellations, but to the matter of suffering as well: Well-being or Quality of life, Welfare economics, Happiness economics, Gross National Happiness, Genuine Progress Indicator.\n\nIn law, \"Pain and suffering\" is a legal term that refers to the mental distress or physical pain endured by a plaintiff as a result of injury for which the plaintiff seeks redress. Assessments of pain and suffering are required to be made for attributing legal awards. In the Western world these are typical made by juries in a discretionary fashion and are regarded as subjective, variable, and difficult to predict, for instance in the US, UK, Australia, and New Zealand. See also, in US law, Negligent infliction of emotional distress and Intentional infliction of emotional distress.\n\nSuffering and pleasure are respectively the negative and positive affects, or hedonic tones, or valences that psychologists often identify as basic in our emotional lives. The evolutionary role of physical and mental suffering, through natural selection, is primordial: it warns of threats, motivates coping (fight or flight, escapism), and reinforces negatively certain behaviors (see punishment, aversives). Despite its initial disrupting nature, suffering contributes to the organization of meaning in an individual's world and psyche. In turn, meaning determines how individuals or societies experience and deal with suffering.\n\nMany brain structures and physiological processes are involved in suffering. Various hypotheses try to account for the experience of suffering. One of these, the \"pain overlap theory\" takes note, thanks to neuroimaging studies, that the cingulate cortex fires up when the brain feels suffering from experimentally induced social distress or physical pain as well. The theory proposes therefore that physical pain and social pain (i.e. two radically differing kinds of suffering) share a common phenomenological and neurological basis.\n\nAccording to David Pearce’s online manifesto The Hedonistic Imperative, suffering is the avoidable result of Darwinian genetic design. Pearce promotes replacing the pain/pleasure axis with a robot-like response to noxious stimuli or with gradients of bliss, through genetic engineering and other technical scientific advances.\n\nHedonistic psychology, affective science, and affective neuroscience are some of the emerging scientific fields that could in the coming years focus their attention on the phenomenon of suffering.\n\nDisease and injury may contribute to suffering in humans and animals. For example, suffering may be a feature of mental or physical illness such as borderline personality disorder and occasionally in advanced cancer. Health care addresses this suffering in many ways, in subfields such as medicine, clinical psychology, psychotherapy, alternative medicine, hygiene, public health, and through various health care providers.\n\nHealth care approaches to suffering, however, remain problematic. Physician and author Eric Cassell, widely cited on the subject of attending to the suffering person as a primary goal of medicine, has defined suffering as \"the state of severe distress associated with events that threaten the intactness of the person\". Cassell writes: \"The obligation of physicians to relieve human suffering stretches back to antiquity. Despite this fact, little attention is explicitly given to the problem of suffering in medical education, research or practice.\" Mirroring the traditional body and mind dichotomy that underlies its teaching and practice, medicine strongly distinguishes pain from suffering, and most attention goes to the treatment of pain. Nevertheless, physical pain itself still lacks adequate attention from the medical community, according to numerous reports. Besides, some medical fields like palliative care, pain management (or pain medicine), oncology, or psychiatry, do somewhat address suffering 'as such'. In palliative care, for instance, pioneer Cicely Saunders created the concept of 'total pain' ('total suffering' say now the textbooks), which encompasses the whole set of physical and mental distress, discomfort, symptoms, problems, or needs that a patient may experience hurtfully.\n\nSince suffering is such a universal motivating experience, people, when asked, can relate their activities to its relief and prevention. Farmers, for instance, may claim that they prevent famine, artists may say that they take our minds off our worries, and teachers may hold that they hand down tools for coping with life hazards. In certain aspects of collective life, however, suffering is more readily an explicit concern by itself. Such aspects may include public health, human rights, humanitarian aid, disaster relief, philanthropy, economic aid, social services, insurance, and animal welfare. To these can be added the aspects of security and safety, which relate to precautionary measures taken by individuals or families, to interventions by the military, the police, the firefighters, and to notions or fields like social security, environmental security, and human security.\n\nPhilosopher Leonard Katz wrote: \"But Nature, as we now know, regards ultimately only fitness and not our happiness (...), and does not scruple to use hate, fear, punishment and even war alongside affection in ordering social groups and selecting among them, just as she uses pain as well as pleasure to get us to feed, water and protect our bodies and also in forging our social bonds.\"\n\nPeople make use of suffering for specific social or personal purposes in many areas of human life, as can be seen in the following instances:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1570530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1570530", "title": "Tetractys", "text": "Tetractys\n\nThe tetractys (), or tetrad, or the tetractys of the decad is a triangular figure consisting of ten points arranged in four rows: one, two, three, and four points in each row, which is the geometrical representation of the fourth triangular number. As a mystical symbol, it was very important to the secret worship of Pythagoreanism. There were four seasons, and the number was also associated with planetary motions and music.\n\n\nA prayer of the Pythagoreans shows the importance of the Tetractys (sometimes called the \"Mystic Tetrad\"), as the prayer was addressed to it.\n\nAs a portion of the secret religion, initiates were required to swear a secret oath by the Tetractys. They then served as novices for a period of silence lasting five years.\n\nThe Pythagorean oath also mentioned the Tetractys:\n\nIt is said that the Pythagorean musical system was based on the Tetractys as the rows can be read as the ratios of 4:3 (perfect fourth), 3:2 (perfect fifth), 2:1 (octave), forming the basic intervals of the Pythagorean scales. That is, Pythagorean scales are generated from combining pure fourths (in a 4:3 relation), pure fifths (in a 3:2 relation), and the simple ratios of the unison 1:1 and the octave 2:1. Note that the diapason, 2:1 (octave), and the diapason plus diapente, 3:1 (compound fifth or perfect twelfth), are consonant intervals according to the tetractys of the decad, but that the diapason plus diatessaron, 8:3 (compound fourth or perfect eleventh), is not.\nThere are some who believe that the tetractys and its mysteries influenced the early Kabbalah. A Hebrew tetractys has the letters of the Tetragrammaton inscribed on the ten positions of the tetractys, from right to left. It has been argued that the Kabbalistic Tree of Life, with its ten spheres of emanation, is in some way connected to the tetractys, but its form is not that of a triangle. The occultist Dion Fortune writes: \n\nThe relationship between geometrical shapes and the first four Sephirot is analogous to the geometrical correlations in Tetraktys, shown above under Pythagorean Symbol, and unveils the relevance of the Tree of Life with the Tetraktys.\n\nIn a Tarot reading, the various positions of the tetractys provide a representation for forecasting future events by signifying according to various occult disciplines, such as Alchemy. Below is only a single variation for interpretation.\n\nThe first row of a single position represents the Premise of the reading, forming a foundation for understanding all the other cards.\n\nThe second row of two positions represents the cosmos and the individual and their relationship.\n\nThe third row of three positions represents three kinds of decisions an individual must make.\n\nThe fourth row of four positions represents the four Greek elements.\n\nThe tetractys occurs (generally coincidentally) in the following:\n\nIn English-language poetry, a tetractys is a syllable-counting form with five lines. The first line has one syllable, the second has two syllables, the third line has three syllables, the fourth line has four syllables, and the fifth line has ten syllables. A sample tetractys would look like this:\n\nThe tetractys was created by Ray Stebbing, who said the following about his newly created form:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37208440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37208440", "title": "Verbal language in dreams", "text": "Verbal language in dreams\n\nVerbal language in dreams is the speech—most commonly in the form of a dialogue between the dreamer him/herself and other dream characters—which forms part of the overall (mostly imagistic) dream scenario. Historically, there have been abundant references to verbal language in dreams going back millennia. Early in the twentieth century German psychiatrist Emil Kraepelin presented a large corpus of dream speech, almost all from his own dreams and virtually all deviant, without any pretense that this was representative of dream speech in general. The first systematic elicitation of verbal language in dreams from a large subject pool under methodological protocols was presented beginning in the early 1980s, along with detailed analyses as well as theoretical consideration of the implications for various dream models, from the psychoanalytic approach to more recent theories.\n\nTraditionally, dreams have been defined predominantly in imagistic terms. Prominent dream theories of the modern era from Sigmund Freud's psychoanalytic model (1900) to the present have similarly placed emphasis of the visual aspects of dreams. Yet, even the earliest of written sources, such as the Hebrew Bible and The Odyssey make clear that dreams need not be \"silent movies\"; they may be \"talkies\" incorporating a \"sound track\" abounding in verbal dialogues or monologues.\n\nA survey by Heynick of several books containing over 300 dreams, both genuine reports and dreams incorporated into works of fiction, showed that some three-quarters contained verbal dialogue or explicit reference to speech in the dream. As a specimen of a dream with dialogue as part of a famous work of fiction, Heynick cites the dream of Charles Swann, the main character in Proust's \"Swann's Way\" (1913; italics added):\n\nThe painter remarked to Swann [the dreamer] \"that Napoleon III had eclipsed himself immediately after Odette. \"They had obviously arranged it between them,\"\" he added; \"they must have agreed to meet at the foot of the cliff, but they wouldn't say good-bye together, it might have looked odd. She is his mistress.\" The strange young man burst into tears. Swann endeavored to console him. \"After all, she is quite right,\" he said to the young man, drying his eyes for him and taking off his fez to make him feel more at ease. \"I've advised her to do that myself a dozen times. Why be so distressed? He was obviously the man to understand her.\"\n\nIn 1906 Kraepelin, a pioneer of the somatic approach to psychiatry and of the methodical classification of psychiatric disorders, published a 105-page monograph \"Über Sprachstörungen im Traume\" (On Speech Disorders in Dreams). As the title suggests, Kraepelin's declared aim was to analyze only deviant specimens of speech from dreams. Specimens reflecting correct speech processes were excluded from his study. To this end, Kraepelin assembled in the course of twenty years 286 specimens, the vast majority drawn from his own dreams, with no pretense to nonselectivity. He apparently drew in large measure from hypnagogic and occasionally hypnopompic dreamlets (experienced when falling asleep and waking up), which differ phenomologically from full-fledged dreams and are characterized by different neurological indices as well.\n\nKraepelin meticulously classified his collection of dreams according to the nature of the deviances from correct normal speech in wakefulness. Three-fifths of his specimens were grouped as disorders of word selection, including large numbers of neologisms (non-existing words, typically formed by combinations of existing words or their components); just over one-fifth as disorders of discourse (actaphasia, usually involving the incorrect choice of language dependency relations; and agrammatism, the faulty construction of complex sentences); and just under one fifth as disorders of thought. Although it was well known at the time that the speech of normal people in wakefulness is often fraught with errors, Kraepelin prized his corpus of deviant dream speech for the profound nature of many of the errors they contained, different from the common slips of the tongue made by mentally healthy people in everyday life. He likened various specimens of his dream speech corpus to the speech in waking life of patients with dementia praecox (schizophrenia), speech confusion, and aphasia. Kraeplin saw his dream experiences as affording him (a normal person) first-hand insight into these pathological processes. He further speculated on neurological concomitants involving the activities and interaction of areas of the brain—the cerebral cortex, Wernicke's coil, Broca's coil—which are different from in normal wakefulness. Although several of Kraepelin's dream speech specimens are amenable to interpretation for their latent sexual significance, he had no interest in the psychoanalytic approach and made no reference to his contemporary Freud in any of his writings.\n\nPrior to the 1980s, therefore, no indices or standards existed that were representative of the verbal language component of the dreams of a large general population. But beginning in 1983, Heynick reported in a series of publications the results of two experiments designed to evaluate, first, the linguistic competence and, subsequently, the pragmatic competence of the dreamer in the dreaming state, using large subject pools drawn from the general population (in this case in the Netherlands) and following careful protocols designed to avoid selectivity and maximize accuracy of recall.\n\nThe term \"linguistic performance,\" central to this experiment, derives from the transformational-generative (TG) revolution in linguistics in the second half of the twentieth century and the concomitant emergence of the field of formal psycholinguistics. The TG model of language generation assumes an ideal \"linguistic competence\" on the part of the speaker, theoretically enabling him or her to generate all the infinite number of well-formed sentences in the native language while generating none of the ill-formed sentences. That in actual use, i.e., linguistic performance, the speaker is limited in, among other things, the complexity or elaboration of the sentences he or she can generate, and often produces utterances which are ill-formed, is due to the limitations of the various auxiliary psychological mechanisms at the speaker's disposal, such as limited short-term memory, perceptual limitations, and defective feedback, as well as to factors such as deliberate changes in structure in mid-sentence, and unconscious interference of the Freudian type.\n\nAll the above has traditionally applied to the native speaker in the waking state. The experiment explored the linguistic performance of the native speaker in the dreaming state.\n\n78 Dutch subjects sleeping at home recorded on special forms following precise protocol instructions a total of 566 Dutch utterances directly recalled and transcribed from 566 dreams which had been in progress prior to alarm clock awakening in the morning. (For just over 80 percent of all awakenings, there was either no dream in progress at the time of awakening or no verbal material to be reported from the dream.) The subjects reported (as part of the questionnaire form) that 60 percent of the utterances were said by him or herself in the dream scenario; 40 percent by someone else, usually addressed to the dreamer.\nWord-count analysis showed the utterances in the corpus to have a wide range of length, with a mean utterance length of 7.5 words and a mean sentence length of 6.5 words. The declarative sentences in the corpus were analyzed for complexity (sentential elaboration) using in particular the number of subordinate clauses per unit as an index. The corpus when classed into three groups according to the education level of the subject-dreamers showed that those with most education had the highest sentential elaboration; those with the least, the lowest; with those with intermediate education scoring in between. (There were no standards available for absolute comparison with the sentential elaboration in spoken Dutch in waking life by the three education-level groups in the general population; however, the relative degree of sentential elaboration of the dream corpus of the three education-level groups accorded with the relative indices for written Dutch by the three educational-level groups, which were available for comparison.)\n\n72 of the 566 utterances were marked by their respective subjects (in response to one of the questions on the form) as deviating from wakeful usage, although analysis of the same specimens by two academic linguists deemed the large majority of those marked utterances to be fully acceptable Dutch. Fewer than 5 percent of all utterances clearly deviated from correct wakeful speech. These included semantic anomalies, faulty lexical substitutions, neologisms (word-blends), non-existent proper names, language mixing, and (in two instances) syntactic errors.\n\nThe subjects in the above experiment were not asked to report the full dream scenario during which the utterances were made. Excluded, therefore, from the analysis was any consideration of \"pragmatic competence,\" the \"knowledge of condition and manner or appropriate use [of his or her linguistic ability] in conformity with various purposes,\" which forms part of the broader field of language psychology (rather than formal psycholinguistics).\nDream utterances \"plus\" their dream scenario contexts were gathered in a second experiment, again following carefully defined protocols, this time using the telephone elicitation technique. (Volunteer subjects were awakened on random nights at random hours, on average no more than once a week.) 77 dream reports from 33 subjects were tape-recorded and transcribed. These contained 92 dream speech utterances elicited verbatim from the subjects immediately after provoked awakening (to minimize deterioration in memory recall) plus an additional 113 utterances (81 in direct verbatim form, 32 in indirect form) contained in the subsequent telling of the entire dream. 40 percent of the utterances were said by the dreamer; 60 percent by someone else in the dream scenario, usually addressed to the dreamer (a reversal of the proportions in the linguistic performance experiment).\n\nFive scorers, working independently but achieving a high degree of interscorer reliability, rated the appropriateness of each of the 205 dreams utterances to their situational context in the dream. Averaged out (and rounded off), 67% of the utterances were deemed to be \"entirely suitable to the narrative\"; 20% \"not entirely suitable\"; 7% \"largely unsuitable\"; and 4% \"entirely unsuitable.\"\n\nAs an example, in the following dream all lines of dialogue were deemed by all scorers (in the first instance, by four or the five scorers) to be fully suitable to the narrative:\n\nI was sitting in the garden and reading old magazines. [...] My son [...] took a little girlfriend along, also about five, and she started looking through the magazines. And they were getting wet, since she had such a cold that her nose ran. And I said \"that she, your little girlfriend, should rinse her nose with the lotah\", that's a jug used in yoga [instead of a handkerchief]. I use it myself, too. So I let her do it, but because she was so small, it didn't go right, and she started to cry. And then she walked home. So I said to my little boy, \"I'll go to her mother and tell her what happened, otherwise she'll think 'what a strange lady.'\" [...] Then that girl came out again, and my son had already told her mother that I had tried to help her get rid of her cold with the lotah. I simply knew that he had said that, but I didn't hear him say that literally. Then I said to that girl \"\"In the future, when you catch a cold, you should go to the doctor and have him write out a prescription for medicine.\"\n\nIn general, the dreamer as (to continue the film metaphor) \"script-writer\" appears to have at his or her command not just a \"story grammar\" capable of generating a reasonably, though not always, coherent overall scenario, but also the linguistic pragmatic competence to generate verbal dialogue which is usually, though again not always, appropriate to that scenario.\n\nThe abundance of verbal language in dreams—typically in the form of dialogue between the dreamer and other characters in the dream scenario—which generally shows a syntactic and lexical well-formedness comparable to speech in the waking state, and which in addition is, far more often than not, appropriate to the dream context, has, in Heynick's theoretical analysis, profound consequences for overall dream theories, past and present.\n\nFreud's psychoanalytic model of the mind and, in particular, his theory of dream generation and its function posit the existence of two global modes of mental functioning. The primary process, characterized by such mechanisms as condensations, displacements, and reversals (and the absence of any sense of negation) is theoretically characteristic of the infantile mode of thinking. It is superseded in the course of ontogeny by the development of the conscious part of the mind, which in the older child and adult is governed by the secondary process, adhering to the rules of grammar and logic. The verbal language which the developing child acquires is for Freud by definition a secondary process. The primary process in psychoanalytic theory is however not banished from the mind, but is contained in the unconscious, where it continues to characterize the mode of functioning of that part of the psyche.\n\nThe unconscious with its primary process mode—along with its repressed ideational content from early childhood, such as the Oedipus complex—provides, in Freud's theory, the driving force and initial input to dreams. Freud attributed the generation of a more or less coherent dream narrative to the process of \"secondary revision,\" which might (he vacillated on this issue) be \"a contribution on the part of waking thought to the construction of dreams\" rather than part of the \"dream work\" proper. The dream-like features which one experiences in dreams, such as condensations, displacements (symbolism), and reversals, are the manifestations of the primary-process input to the dream generation process.\n\nYet the dreams of Freud's own and those of his patients, which he provides in \"The Interpretation of Dreams\" and elsewhere, typically abound in verbal dialogue, which is always syntactically well-formed, often complex (containing subordinate clauses) and usually, though not always, semantically well-formed and appropriate to the context of the dream.\n\nAs an example, Heynick cites, among others, the \"dream of Irma's injection, which Freud himself considered to be of central importance to the development of his dream theory:\n\nI said to Irma: \"If you still get pains, it's really your own fault.\" She replied: \"If you only knew what pains I've got in my throat and stomach and abdomen—it's choking me.\" [...] I at once \"called in\" Dr. M. [who] looked quite different from usual; he was very pale, he walked with a limp and his chin was clean shaven. [...] My friend Leopold was [...] saying, \"She has a dull area down on the left.\" He also indicated that a portion of the skin of the left shoulder was infiltrated. (I noticed this, just as he did, in spite of her dress.) [...] M. said: \"\"There's no doubt it's an infection, but no matter, dysentery will supervene and the toxin will be eliminated.\"\n\nVirtually all the deep personal significance which Freud in his analysis attributed to his Irma dream would be lost without the verbal dialogue. Yet the utterances are fully grammatical; they contain properly embedded and conjoined clauses, two conditional phrases, a future tense, and two instances of negation. All words are proper German (in the original). Semantically most of the dialogue appears appropriate to the overall scenario, except the last which is medically absurd.\n\nFreud was apparently confronted with the enigma of how the generation of speech, a secondary process par excellence, could be functioning at such a apparently high level of adequacy during dreaming, the input and motive power of which involves a theoretically primary process. Freud attempted to resolve this problem by introducing his \"replay hypothesis\" (as Heynick terms it), according to which the dialogue in dreams is merely a repeating, in the same or similar words, of speech actually said or heard by the dreamer recently in waking life, usually on the day before the dream, only slightly modified (if at all) by the above-mentioned process of \"secondary revision.\" This theoretical regression to an infantile mimicking of speech thus denied to the dreaming process proper any substantial language functioning or (in modern terms) linguistic competence.\n\nWith a view to testing the validity of Freud's replay hypothesis, the subject-dreamers in the above-mentioned experiment on linguistic competence were asked with regard to each of their dream speech specimens whether they could recall having said the utterance prior to the dream in waking life in the same or similar words. The subjects deemed that to have been the case on the day before the dream for 8% of the utterances and for the week before the dream (including the day before the dream) for 14% of the utterances. Such low figures appear to invalidate Freud's replay hypothesis.\n\nAlthough no neo-Freudians treat the phenomenon of dream speech per se, proposed revisions to the psychoanalytic model of the mind by theorists such as Gill, Holt and Noy, beginning in the late 1960s, variously included the redefining of the place of speech generation (in wakefulness, but this would also apply to speech during dreaming) whereby it would no longer necessarily be classified as a strictly secondary process. Such revisions would, Heynick points out, potentially make the phenomenon of verbal language in dreams less anomalous in the psychoanalytic scheme, and without the need to resort, as Freud did, to the replay hypothesis as an \"ad hoc\" expedient.\n\nThe activation-synthesis hypothesis of dream generation first proposed by Harvard University psychiatrists John Allan Hobson and Robert McCarley in the late 1970s drew upon the discovery earlier in the decade of the ponto-geniculo-occipital (PGO) impulses which during the nightly REM periods (the physiological stage of sleep which is most associated with the phenomenological experience of vivid dreaming) are fired off from the brain stem and travel to the visual areas of the cortex.\n\nIn the visual area of the cortex, according to the model, the impulses call up largely at random a series of images (=activation). The dreamer's sleeping consciousness automatically tries to integrate these images into a more or less coherent story, while, for example, linking them with fragments of memory from the past (=synthesis). (Similar mechanisms involving the PGO impulses have been incorporated into other dream models, namely Francis Crick and Graeme Mitchison's reverse learning theory and Michael Jouvet's endogenous learning hypothesis.)\nThe activation-synthesis hypothesis, although based on neurological data more advanced than was ever available to Freud, is reminiscent of Freud's psychoanalytic model in that the initial input to the process is primitive and chaotic, onto which some order in imposed by a cognitively more advanced process. But as for the psychological interpretation of dreams the authors of the activation-synthesis hypothesis are outspokenly anti-Freudian, in that in their model the initial input to the dreaming process (the PGO-impulses) are devoid of any depth-psychology significance, Oedipal or whatever. (If the dream acquires any significance relating to the dreamer's personality. history, and present circumstances, this occurs in the manner in which the more or less randomly evoked images are integrated into a story during the synthesis stage, analogous to what a subject may \"see\" in the random ink-blots of a Rorschach test.)\n\nBe this as it may, the activation-synthesis hypothesis with its overwhelming emphasis on visual areas of the cortex is silent as to how the extensive verbal language may be generated and integrated into the dream scenario. Heynick cites as ironic a specimen dream which Hobson presents as exemplary of production by the activation-synthesis model:\n\nI am in Willianstown, Massachusetts, talking to a colleague, Van, who is wearing a white shirt (he usually wears blue) open at the neck (he is normally necktied, and even collar-clipped) and khakis (he usually sports flannels). Casual. Van says, as if by the way, \"that he attended the committee meeting that has yesterday considered my candidacy for an invited lecture series.\" (I know from his tone that he is going to deliver bad news.) The committee has decided against it because \"\"They don't feel that psychoanalysis should be confronted with laboratory data.\"\nI allowed at how bad this idea was. \"It's the wrong reason,\" I said. \"And their timing is off, because Adolf Grünbaum is just about to publish his important new book in which he insists that that is precisely what psychoanalysis must do.\" Van ignores this statement, appearing never to have heard of A.G.\nWe go out a door (which is on the corner of the building) to behold the beautiful Williams campus. A red-brick wall extends down a green lawn to the classic white Puritan buildings.\nVan says, \"They chose Mary\" (or seems to say that) \"reflecting their priorities to attract a speaker who might help them with their fund-raising efforts.\" \"\"That's why you have such beautiful buildings,\" I note, \"and why there is nothing in them.\"\"\n\nHobson presents this specimen as an example of how dreams can sometimes reflect personal concerns—in this case relating to his academic squabbles with his colleagues due to his anti-psychoanalytic stance within the psychiatric profession. As Heynick points out, the personal significance in this dream is in fact derived almost exclusively from the verbal dialogue, without which the dream would lose all its meaning.\n\nThe psychoneirics (from Greek; psycho = mind + oneiros = dream) model of dream generation, formulated by Foulkes from the late 1970s onwards, is cited as an exemplary model (though not necessarily the only possible type of model) of how the generation of verbal language can be incorporated into the generation of the overall dream scenario. Patterned on the psycholinguistic model of speech production (in wakefulness), the psychoneirics model is basically non-neurological. It views dream generation in humans as, like speech in humans, a skillful cognitive act, in fact possibly drawing upon the selfsame cognitive abilities.\n\nThe input to the dreaming process involves (not unlike the activation-synthesis hypothesis of dreaming) the diffuse activation of memory elements. Psychoneirics focuses on the midrange dream generation processes (regardless of whether or not the dream happens to include verbal dialogue) as involving \"schematic selection\" and \"element activation,\" analogous to the syntactic frame (sentence structure) selection and word selection of psycholinguistic models. (The dream-like features of dreams, such as condensations (composite images) and anomalous narrative shifts, are seen as residual flux of the dream production mechanism, which is otherwise doing a reasonably good job of developing the initial input into a coherent narrative.) Under this theoretical assumption that the human dream-generation ability and speech-generation ability (in wakefulness) derive from similar cognitive capacities, the psychoneirics model can claim to seamlessly account for the generation of verbal dialogue within dreams.\n\nThe data presented in the above experiments is considered as having implications not just for the evaluation of the various existing models of dream generation, but also for models of speech generation in general, that is in everyday life.\n\nDreaming is a state of consciousness different from the normal wakeful state. With regard to actions within the dream, dreaming consciousness is presumably characterized by a diminished capacity for deliberate intention on the part of the dreamer (including intention of what to say or, as scriptwriter, what to have other characters say) and a diminished attention to, or diminished ability to receive and monitor feedback from, the actions (including speech acts) as they are being carried out in the dream. The characteristics of dialogue in dreams indicate that despite the presumed diminished intention, attention and feedback on the part of the dreamer as speaker-listener and scriptwriter, the utterances generated, far more often than not, are semantically and syntactically well-formed and appropriate to the overall scenario. The implication is that the human capacity for language in general (that is, in everyday wakefulness) can largely rely on processes which, once they are triggered when the conditions match those required for their operation, can generate verbal utterances automatically, outside of awareness and without the need for intervention by the speaker except at points where some critical choice is made.\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "1713046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1713046", "title": "Victim feminism", "text": "Victim feminism\n\nVictim feminism is a term used by some liberal and libertarian feminists in the 1990s to contrast their conceptions of feminism with other feminists who they view as reinforcing the idea that women are weak or lacking in agency, and therefore need to be protected.\n\nNaomi Wolf contrasts victim feminism with power feminism. In her view, victim feminists present women as \"beleaguered, fragile, intuitive angels\" thus preventing women from taking responsibility for the power they actually have. Among various attributes of victim feminism, Wolf writes that it projects violence and competitiveness onto men or their patriarchy, while disregarding these qualities in women.\n\nColin Grant described Wolf's power vs. victim dichotomy as being rooted in differences in how feminists address the liabilities that women suffer: while victim feminism simply dwells on them, power feminism seeks to identify them, with the purpose to challenge and overcome them. Grant also mentions that Wolf herself appears to have embraced both sides: her book \"The Beauty Myth\" seems to be from the victim feminism camp, but with \"Fire with Fire\" Wolf transitions to the power feminism side.\n\nThis dichotomy of \"victim\" vs \"power\" was criticized for being defined too broadly so that Wolf's argument became lost. In addition it lumps together diverse and radically different feminist schools, and this confusion aids antifeminists in their rhetoric.\n\nVictim feminism was described as a negative tendency in gender feminism. The more positive tendency recognizes the distinctiveness of women's experience and views (regarding sex, morality, etc.) as a positive alternative in contrast to that imposed by the \"patriarchal\" views of men.\n\nNaomi Wolf's \"Fire with Fire\" and Katie Roiphe's \"The Morning After\", met with considerable media attention, were described as part of the backlash against the perceived domination of the feminist theme of victimization in the contemporary popular culture.\n\nOne of Wolf's and Roiphe's arguments is that emphasis on victimization reinforces the stereotype of women being fragile and vulnerable. However it was argued that their solution in the form of \"power feminism\" is simplistic, because it fails to take into an account the systemic nature of women's subordination. Overall, the \"victim vs. power\" dichotomy was described as false and fundamentally inadequate, and leading to \"problematic extremes\".\n\nGender studies scholar Rebecca Stringer writes that besides Wolf and Roiphe, other feminist authors have criticized the representation of women as victims and promoted a brand of agency-affirming feminism. These include Camille Paglia, Christina Hoff Sommers, Natasha Walter, and Rene Denfeld. Each of these authors wrote popular books in the 1990s about feminism framed as calls to action like earlier works by Betty Friedan and Germaine Greer, but instead of agitating for political and economic change, they often argued in favour of the status quo. According to Stringer, this trend of 1990s agitation against \"victim feminism\" is tied to the concurrent rise of neoliberalism. At the same time, in her book \"Knowing Victims\" Stringer argues that these critiques of \"victim feminism\" do not affirm women's agency, but rather problematize women's capacity for agency and declare a lack of women's personal responsibility, which is, in Stringer's view, akin to victim blaming.\n\nElizabeth Schneider criticizes the dichotomy of feminism in the form of \"victimhood vs. agency\" from the legal standpoint, arguing that the view of women as either victims or agents is incomplete and static. She points out that, first, both concepts are too narrow and incomplete, and second, they are not the opposite poles of a spectrum, they are independent, but interrelated dimensions of women's experience.\n\n"}
{"id": "25278242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25278242", "title": "Water cure (torture)", "text": "Water cure (torture)\n\nWater cure is a form of torture in which the victim is forced to drink large quantities of water in a short time, resulting in gastric distension, water intoxication, and possibly death.\n\nOften the victim has the mouth forced or wedged open, the nose closed with pincers and a funnel or strip of cloth forced down the throat. The victim has to drink all the water (or other liquids such as bile or urine) poured into the funnel to avoid drowning. The stomach fills until near bursting and is sometimes beaten until the victim vomits and the torture begins again.\n\nWhile this use of water as a form of torture is documented back to at least the 15th century, the first use of the phrase water cure in this sense is indirectly dated to around 1898, by U.S. soldiers in the Spanish–American War, after the phrase had been introduced to America in the mid-19th century in the therapeutic sense, which was in widespread use. Indeed, while the torture sense of the phrase \"water cure\" was by 1900–1902 established in the U.S. Army, with a conscious sense of irony, this sense was not in widespread use. \"Webster's\" 1913 dictionary cited only the therapeutic sense.\n\nThe use of the water cure by the Dutch in the East-Indies is documented by the English merchants of the East India Company after the Amboyna massacre in February 1623 (stilo veteri). The procedure is described in great detail by the survivors of the incident.\n\nThe manner of his torture was as follows: First they hoisted him up by the hands with a cord on a large door, where they made him fast upon two staples of iron, fixed on both sides, at the top of the door posts, having his hands one from the other as wide as they could stretch. Being thus made fast, his feet hung some two foot from the ground; which also they stretched asunder as far as they would stretch, and so made them fast beneath unto the door trees on each side. Then they bound a cloth about his neck and face so close, that little or no water could go by. That done, they poured the water softly upon his head until the cloth was full, up to the mouth and nostrils, and somewhat higher; so that he could not draw breath, but he must with all suck in the water: which being still continued to be poured in softly, forced all his inward parts, come out of his nose, ears, eyes, and often as it were stifling and choking him, at length took away his breath, and brought him to a swoon or fainting. Then they took him quickly down, and made him vomit up the water. Being a little recovered, they trussed him up again, and poured water as before, taking him down as soon as he seemed to be stifled. In this manner they handled him three or four several times with water, until his body was swollen twice or thrice as big as before, his cheeks like great bladders, and his eyes staring and strutting out beyond his forehead.\n\nWater torture was used extensively and legally by the courts of France from the Middle Ages to the 17th and 18th centuries. It was known as being put to \"the question\", with the ordinary question involving the forcing of one gallon (eight pints or approximately 3.6 litres) of water into the stomach and the extraordinary question involving the forcing of two gallons (sixteen pints or approximately 7.3 litres).\n\nThe French poet and criminal François Villon was subjected to this torture in 1461. Jean Calas suffered this torture before being broken on the wheel in 1762. The true case of the Marquise of Brinvilliers was reported in fiction by Arthur Conan Doyle in \"The Leather Funnel\", by Alexandre Dumas, père, in \"The Marquise de Brinvilliers\" and by Émile Gaboriau in \"Intrigues of a Poisoner\".\n\nA form of water cure known as the Swedish drink was used by various international troops against the German population during the Thirty Years' War.\n\nWater cure was among the forms of torture used by the Spanish Inquisition. The Inquisition at Málaga subjected the Scottish traveller William Lithgow to this torture, among other methods, in 1620. He described his ordeal in \"Rare Adventures and Painful Peregrinations\" (1632) :\n\nThe first and second [measures of water] I gladly received, such was the scorching drought of my tormenting pain, and likewise I had drunk none for three days before. But afterward, at the third charge, perceiving these measures of water to be inflicted upon me as tortures, O strangling tortures! I closed my lips, gainstanding that eager crudelity. Whereat the alcalde enraging, set my teeth asunder with a pair of iron cadges, detaining them there, at every several turn, both mainly and manually; whereupon my hunger-clunged belly waxing great, grew drum-like imbolstered: for it being a suffocating pain, in regard of my head hanging downward, and the water reingorging itself in my throat with a struggling force; it strangled and swallowed up my breath from yowling and groaning.\n\nBefore pouring the water, torturers often inserted an iron prong (known as the \"bostezo\") into a victim's mouth to keep it open, as well as a strip of linen (known as the \"toca\") on which the victim would choke and suffocate while swallowing the water.\n\nThe water cure was brought to the Philippines during Spanish colonial rule, and passed on to Americans by Filipinos in 1899.\n\nThe water cure was among the forms of torture used by American soldiers on Filipinos during the Philippine–American War. President Theodore Roosevelt privately assured a friend that the water cure was \"an old Filipino method of mild torture. Nobody was seriously damaged whereas the Filipinos had inflicted incredible tortures on our people.\" The president went further, stating, \"Nevertheless, torture is not a thing that we can tolerate.\" However, a report at the time noted its lethality; \"a soldier who was with General Funston had stated that he helped to administer the water cure to one hundred and sixty natives, all but twenty-six of whom died\". See the Lodge Committee for detailed testimony of the use of the water cure.\n\nU.S. Army Major Edwin Glenn was suspended from command for one month and fined $50 for using the water cure in an incident which occurred on November 27, 1900. The Army judge advocate said the charges constituted \"resort to torture with a view to extort a confession\" and recommended disapproval because \"the United States cannot afford to sanction the addition of torture\".\n\nLieutenant Grover Flint during the Philippine–American War:\nA man is thrown down on his back and three or four men sit or stand on his arms and legs and hold him down; and either a gun barrel or a rifle barrel or a carbine barrel or a stick as big as a belaying pin,that is, with an inch circumference,is simply thrust into his jaws and his jaws are thrust back, and, if possible, a wooden log or stone is put under his head or neck, so he can be held more firmly. In the case of very old men I have seen their teeth fall out,I mean when it was done a little roughly. He is simply held down and then water is poured onto his face down his throat and nose from a jar; and that is kept up until the man gives some sign or becomes unconscious. And, when he becomes unconscious, he is simply rolled aside and he is allowed to come to. In almost every case the men have been a little roughly handled. They were rolled aside rudely, so that water was expelled. A man suffers tremendously, there is no doubt about it. His sufferings must be that of a man who is drowning, but cannot drown.\n\nIn his book \"The Forging of the American Empire\" Sidney Lens recounted:\nA reporter for the New York Evening Post (April 8, 1902) gave some harrowing details. The native, he said, is thrown on the ground, his arms and legs pinned down, and head partially raised \"so as to make pouring in the water an easier matter\". If the prisoner tries to keep his mouth closed, his nose is pinched to cut off the air and force him to open his mouth, or a bamboo stick is put in the opening. In this way water is steadily poured in, one, two, three, four, five gallons, until the body becomes \"an object frightful to contemplate\". In this condition, of course, speech is impossible, so the water is squeezed out of the victim, sometimes naturally, and sometimesas a young soldier with a smile told the correspondent\"we jump on them to get it out quick.\" One or two such treatments and the prisoner either talks or dies.\n\nThe use of \"third degree interrogation\" techniques in order to compel confession, ranging from \"psychological duress such as prolonged confinement to extreme violence and torture\", was widespread in early American policing as late as the 1930s. Author Daniel G. Lassiter classified the water cure as \"orchestrated physical abuse\", and described the police technique as a \"modern day variation of the method of water torture that was popular during the Middle Ages.\" The technique employed by the police involved either holding the head in water until almost drowning, or laying on the back and forcing water into the mouth or nostrils. Such techniques were classified as \"'covert' third degree torture\" since they left no signs of physical abuse, and became popular after 1910 when the direct application of physical violence in order to force a confession became a media issue and some courts began to deny obviously compelled confessions. The publication of this information in 1931 as part of the Wickersham Commission's \"Report on Lawlessness in Law Enforcement\" led to a decline in the use of third degree police interrogation techniques in the 1930s and 1940s.\n\nDuring World War II, water cure was among the forms of torture used by Japanese troops (especially the Kempeitai) in occupied territory. A report from the postwar International Military Tribunal for the Far East summarized it as follows:\nThe so-called \"water treatment\" was commonly used. The victim was bound or otherwise secured in a prone position; and water was forced through his mouth and nostrils into his lungs and stomach until he lost consciousness. Pressure was then applied, sometimes by jumping upon his abdomen to force the water out. The usual practice was to revive the victim and successively repeat the process.\n\nChase J. Nielson, who was captured in the Doolittle raid, testified at the trial of his captors, \"I was given several types of torture … I was given what they call the water cure\" and it felt \"more or less like I was drowning, just gasping between life and death.\"\n\nThe water cure has had a long history of use in during Philippines's colonial history, having been used during the Spanish, American, and Japanese occupations. After Philippine Independence in 1945, the most notable instances of its use by the Philippine government was by the dictatorship of former President Ferdinand Marcos.\n\nThe water cure was one of the torture methods most used frequently by the Marcos Regime in the Philippines from 1965 to 1986, whose torturers referred to the practice as NAWASA sessions - a reference to the National Waterworks and Sewerage Authority which supplied water to the Metro Manila area at the time. The practice was widely documented by organizations such as the Task Force Detainees of the Philippines, the World Council of Churches, the International Commission of Jurists, among others. Notable survivors of the torture include Loretta Ann Rosales, who eventually became the Chair of the Philippines' Commission on Human Rights, and Maria Elena Ang, who was a 23-year-old Journalism student of the University of the Philippines at the time of her torture.\n\n\n"}
