{"id": "5749929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5749929", "title": "Albion's Seed", "text": "Albion's Seed\n\nAlbion's Seed: Four British Folkways in America is a 1989 book by David Hackett Fischer that details the folkways of four groups of people who moved from distinct regions of Great Britain (Albion) to the United States. The argument is that the culture of each of the groups persisted, to provide the basis for the modern United States. Fischer explains \"the origins and stability of a social system which for two centuries has remained stubbornly democratic in its politics, capitalist in its economy, libertarian in its laws and individualist in its society and pluralistic in its culture.\" Fischer describes \"Albion's Seed\" as a modified Teutonic germ theory within the framework of the Frontier Thesis and the migration model.\n\nThe four migrations are discussed in the four main chapters of the book:\n\nFischer includes satellite peoples such as Welsh, Scots, Irish, Dutch, French, Germans, Italians and a treatise on enslaved Africans in South Carolina. Fischer covers voting patterns and dialects of speech in four regions that span from their Atlantic colonial base to the Pacific.\n\nFischer remarks on his own connective feelings between the Chesapeake and Southern England in \"Albion's Seed\" but attempts to flesh that out in \"Bound Away: Virginia and the Westward Movement\", a corollary of his work in the book.\n\nFischer states that the book's purpose is to examine the complex cultural processes at work within the four folkways during the time period. \"Albion's Seed\" argues, \"The legacy of four British folkways in early America remains the most powerful determinant of a voluntary society in the United States.\"\n\nThe term \"folkways\" was originally conceived of by William Graham Sumner, a 19th-century American sociologist. Sumner's treatise \"Folkways: A Study of the Sociological Importance of Usages, Manners, Customs, Mores, and Morals\" posits:\n\nThe folkways are habits of the individual and customs of the society which arise from efforts to satisfy needs; they are intertwined with goblinism and demonism and primitive notions of luck (sec. 6), and so they win traditional authority. Then they become regulative for succeeding generations and take on the character of a social force. They arise no one knows whence or how. They grow as if by the play of internal life energy. They can be modified, but only to a limited extent, by the purposeful efforts of men. In time they lose power, decline, and die, or are transformed. While they are in vigor they very largely control individual and social undertakings, and they produce and nourish ideas of world philosophy and life policy. Yet they are not organic or material. They belong to a superorganic system of relations, conventions, and institutional arrangements.\n\nFischer describes his modified application of the folkways concept as \"the normative structure of values, customs and meanings that exist in any culture,\" which rise from social and intellectual origins. More specifically, Fischer's definition of folkways are that they \"are often highly persistent, but they are never static. Even where they have acquired the status of a tradition they are not necessarily very old. Folkways are constantly in the process of creation, even in our own time.\"\n\nEach of the four distinct folkways is comparatively described and defined in the following terms:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2814788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2814788", "title": "Alexander Melville Bell", "text": "Alexander Melville Bell\n\nAlexander Melville Bell (1 March 18197 August 1905) was a teacher and researcher of physiological phonetics and was the author of numerous works on orthoepy and elocution.\n\nAdditionally he was also the creator of Visible Speech which was used to help the deaf learn to talk, and was the father of Alexander Graham Bell.\n\nAlexander Melville Bell was born in Edinburgh, Scotland, and studied under and became the principal assistant of his father, Alexander Bell (1790–1865), an authority on phonetics and speech disorders. From 1843 to 1865 he lectured on speech elocution at the University of Edinburgh, and from 1865 to 1870 at the University of London. Melville married Eliza Grace Symonds (d. Georgetown, Washington, D.C., 5 January 1897), the only daughter of a British naval surgeon.\n\nIn 1868, and again in 1870 and 1871, Melville lectured at the Lowell Institute in Boston, Massachusetts after having moved to Canada. In 1870 he became a lecturer on philology at Queen's College, Kingston, Ontario; and in 1881 he moved to Washington, D.C. at the suggestion of his son Graham, where he devoted himself to the education of the deaf by the use of Visible Speech in which the alphabetical characters of his linguistic invention were representative graphic diagrams for the various positions and motions of the lips, tongue, mouth, etc., as well as other methods of orthoepy.\n\nPrior to departing Scotland for Canada Melville Bell had published at least 17 works on proper speech, vocal physiology, stenography and other works. Besides instructing at Queens College he also lectured in Boston, Montreal, Toronto, London, and other universities including a series of 12 lectures at Boston's Lowell Institute. When the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall (later King George V and Queen Mary) called on Brantford for a visit, Melville was asked to greet the dignitaries at the public event. He became a Fellow of the Educational Institute of Scotland, the Royal Scottish Society of Arts, and the American Association for the Advancement of Science, as well as obtaining memberships in other societies.\n\nAlexander Melville Bell was married twice, first to Eliza Grace Symonds in 1844 with whom he had three children, and then to Harriet G. Shibley.\n\nIn 1864 Melville published his first works on Visible Speech, to help the deaf both learn and improve upon their aural speech (since the profoundly deaf could themselves not hear their own aural pronunciations). To promote the language, Bell created two written short forms using his system of 29 modifiers and tones, 52 consonants, 36 vowels and a dozen diphthongs: World English, which was similar to the International Phonetic Alphabet, and also Line Writing, used as a shorthand form for stenographers.\n\nMelville's works on Visible Speech became highly notable, and were described by Édouard Séguin as being \"...a greater invention than the telephone of his son, Alexander Graham Bell\". Melville saw numerous applications for his invention, including its worldwide use as a universal language. However, although heavily promoted at the Second International Congress on Education of the Deaf in Milan, Italy in 1880, after a period of a dozen years or so in which it was applied to the education of the deaf, Visible Speech was found to be more cumbersome, and thus a hindrance, to the teaching of speech to the deaf compared to other methods, and eventually faded from use.\n\nIn 1887, his son, Alexander Graham Bell, sold off the intellectual assets owned by the Volta Laboratory Association. Graham used the considerable profits from the sale of his shares to found the Volta Bureau as an instrument \"for the increase and diffusion of knowledge relating to the deaf\". Graham's scientific and statistical research work on deafness became so large that within the period of a few years his documentation engulfed an entire room of the Volta Laboratory in Melville's backyard carriage house. Due to the limited space available at the carriage house, and with the assistance of Melville who contributed US$15,000 (approximately $ in today's dollars), Graham had his new Volta Bureau building constructed close by in 1893.\n\nMelville Bell died at age 86 in 1905 due to pneumonia after an operation for diabetes, and was interred in Washington, D.C.'s Rock Creek Cemetery adjacent to the Hubbard • Bell • Grossman • Pillot Memorial, alongside his wife and other members of the Bell and Grosvenor families.\n\nThe Bell House at Colonial Beach, Virginia was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1987.\n\nThe voice of Bell, citing a sentence from \"Hamlet\", can be heard at the Smithsonian Institution, as extracted from an 1881 graphophone recording.\n\nThe following are some of the more prominent of the 93 publications authored or co-authored by Melville Bell:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58866743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58866743", "title": "Ancestral civilisation", "text": "Ancestral civilisation\n\nAncestral civilisation or ancestral people is a term used to refer to ancient inhabitants of a modern country, in which that civilisation had its center or birthplace. Despite the fact that they lack the legal continuity of predecessor states, ancestral civilisations are foundational to the culture of contemporary countries.\n\nNotable examples include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9177380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9177380", "title": "Augustin Cochin (historian)", "text": "Augustin Cochin (historian)\n\nAugustin Cochin (22 December 1876 – 8 July 1916) was a French historian of the French Revolution. Much of his work was posthumously published in an incomplete state after he was killed in action in World War I.\n\nBorn in Paris, Cochin was the son of Denys Cochin, a Parisian deputy in the National Assembly with ties to the Vatican, and the grandson of Augustin Cochin, a French politician and writer. His Catholic upbringing helped him to remain detached from the French Revolution and study it historically in a new light.\n\nCochin studied the Revolution from a sociological perspective, cultivated from his interest in the work of Émile Durkheim, and he sought to look at the revolution from a social perspective. François Furet believed that Cochin's work worked towards an analysis of two objectives: “a sociology of the production and role of democratic ideology, and a sociology of political manipulation and machines.” Cochin's work deals with the revolution itself from a conceptual basis.\n\nCochin was drafted into service in World War I in 1914, and he was wounded four times in service before being killed on 8 July 1916 at Maricourt, Somme.\n\nHis sometime collaborator, Charles Charpentier, worked with Cochin's family towards posthumous publication of his works.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14182278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14182278", "title": "Battle of the North Fork of the Red River", "text": "Battle of the North Fork of the Red River\n\nThe Battle of North Fork or the Battle of the North Fork of the Red River occurred on September 28, 1872, near McClellan Creek in Gray County, Texas, United States. A monument on that spot marks the site of the battle between the Comanche Indians under Kai-Wotche and Mow-way and a detachment of cavalry and scouts under U.S. Army Colonel Ranald S. Mackenzie. There was an accusation that the battle was really an attempt \"to make a massacre,\" as during the height of battle some noncombatants were wounded while mixed in with warriors.\n\nThis battle is primarily remembered as the place where the army for the first time struck at the Comanches in the heart of the Llano Estacado in the western panhandle of Texas.\n\nThis battle was a precursor to the Red River War of 1873–4. In early 1872, the new Military Commander of the District of Texas decided it was time to strike at the Comanches in the heart of their homeland on the Comancheria, much as the Texas Rangers had done 14 years before at the Battle of Little Robe Creek. The Grant administration's \"Quaker Peace Policy\" was still in effect, which placed the appointment of Indian agents in the hands of Protestant religious organizations (Quakers were the first to participate, thus the name of the policy), not political patrons. In addition, Indians were to be moved to reservations peacefully or forcefully, and U.S. troops were not to engage in combat against them. Under the policy, federal troops at Fort Sill could not be deployed against the Comanche. Troops from the Texas District, however, could be.\n\nMackenzie marched out of Fort Concho in early July 1872, to begin his campaign. He reestablished Camp Supply on Duck Creek, on the edge of the Llano Estacado where he established his command. From there, McKenzie dispatched several scouting parties, one of which discovered a well-traveled path with hoof prints of a large herd of cattle stretching west. This find caught Mackenzie's attention, and on July 28, 1872, he marched 272 troopers, 12 officers, and 20 Tonkawa scouts into the heart of the Comancheria. On August 7, 1872, the detachment obtained supplies and rested at Fort Sumner, New Mexico. They then marched north to Fort Bascom, New Mexico, arriving August 16, 1872.\n\nOrtiz, who accompanied Mackenzie, led the command to the east, skirting Palo Duro Canyon. Mackenzie split off smaller detachments to search possible locations of the Indian camps but with no success. They returned to Camp Supply on August 31, 1872. The expedition had marched close to over a five-week period, and discovered two new routes through the Staked Plains. These routes were reported to be shorter and had better water access than the Goodnight–Loving Trail that was being used to drive cattle to markets in Kansas.\n\nMackenzie rested his men until September 21, when he marched his troops north to search the last potential campsite of the Comanche, on the north fork of the Red River. On September 28, a scouting patrol under Lt. Boehm and Captain Wirt Davis, discovered a large Kotsoteka Comanche village. The cavalry moved within a half mile of the village before they were seen by the Indians. From there, they charged the village, capturing it after a half-hour battle. Mackenzie lost three men and three were wounded. The Comanche lost an estimated fifty or more, including Chief Kai-Wotche and his wife, who were both killed. Mow-way (Shaking Hand) escaped.\n\nThe army had caught the village completely unaware, and captive Clinton Smith in later years would accuse Mackenzie and the army of a massacre. Mackenzie reported officially twenty-three Comanches killed, although there may have been more. The warriors, who sustained heavy casualties, threw some of their dead into a ten-foot-deep pool to keep them away from the Tonkawas' knives and cooking pots; the Tonkawas were reputedly cannibals.\n\nAs justification for the attack, the army claimed it found overwhelming proof of the band's raids on white settlements in the wreckage of the village. For instance, a survivor of the wagon train massacred at Howard's Wells the previous spring recognized forty-three of its mules.\n\nAlmost 800–3000 horses were rounded up by the troops while the lodges, along with the stores of meat, equipment, and clothing, save for a few choice robes, were burned. About 130 Comanches, mostly women and children, were taken prisoner, but six of these were too badly wounded to be moved long distances.\n\nAfter dark, Mackenzie's command moved to the hills several miles away from the burned village and camped. Fearing that the captured pony herd would stampede the cavalry horses, Mackenzie had them corralled. That night and the next, however, the Comanches succeeded in recovering most of their horses, plus those of the Tonkawa scouts. The Comanche prisoners were kept under guard as the command rejoined its supply train and retraced its route back south to the main supply base on Duck Creek, where the Indians were transferred to Fort Concho, where they were kept prisoner through the winter. MacKenzie used the captives as a bargaining tool to force the off-reservation Indians back to the reservation, and to force them to free white captives.\n\nMacKenzie's stratagem worked, for shortly after the battle, Mow-way and Parra-o-coom (Bull Bear) moved their bands to the vicinity of the Wichita Agency. The Nokoni chief Horseback, who himself counted family members among the Indian prisoners, took the initiative in persuading the Comanches to trade stolen livestock and white captives, including Clinton Smith, in exchange for their own women and children.\n\nCorporal William O'Neill, Blacksmith James Pratt, Farrier David Larkin, Privates Edward Branagan and William Rankin, Corporal Henry McMasters, Sergeant William Wilson, Sergeant William Foster, and First Sergeant William McNamara were awarded the Medal of Honor.\n\nThis marked the first time the United States had successfully attacked the Comanches in the heart of the Comancheria, and showed that the Llano Estacado were no longer a safe haven. Further, this battle emphasized that if the army wished to force the wild Comanches onto reservations, the way to do it was destroy their villages and leave them unable to survive off-reservation. MacKenzie's tactics were such a success that William T. Sherman empowered him to use them further during the Red River War of 1874. His attack on the village at the Battle of Palo Duro Canyon, and his destruction of the Comanche horse herd at Tule Canyon, both in 1874, mirrored this battle in strategy and effect.\n\n\n\nAnderson, H. Allen: Battle of the North Fork – from \"Handbook of Texas online\"\n"}
{"id": "7503960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7503960", "title": "Catherine Obianuju Acholonu", "text": "Catherine Obianuju Acholonu\n\nCatherine Obianuju Acholonu (26 October 1951 – 18 March 2014) was a Nigerian writer, researcher and former lecturer on African Cultural and Gender Studies. She served as the former Senior Special Adviser (SSA) to President Olusegun Obasanjo on Arts and Culture, and foundation member of the \"Association of Nigerian Authors\" (ANA).\n\nCatherine Acholonu was born in Orlu to the family of Chief Lazarus Olumba. She attended secondary schools in Orlu before becoming the first African woman to gain a master's degree (1977) and a PhD (1987) from the University of Düsseldorf, Germany. She taught at Alvan Ikoku College of Education, Owerri, commencing 1978.\n\nAcholonu was the author of over 16 books, many of which are used in secondary schools and universities in Nigeria, and in African Studies Departments in USA and Europe. Her works and projects enjoyed the collaboration and the support of United States Information Service (USIS), the British Council, the Rockefeller Foundation and in 1989 she was invited to tour educational institutions in USA, lecturing on her works under the United States International Visitor's Program. In 1990 Catherine Acholonu was honoured with the Fulbright Scholar in Residency award by the US government, during which she lectured at four colleges of the Westchester Consortium for International studies, NY, USA.\n\nPart of her work took her into the wider sphere of sustainable development. In 1986 she was the only Nigerian, and one of two Africans to participate in the United Nations Expert Group Meeting on \"Women, Population and Sustainable Development: the Road to Rio, Cairo and Beijing”, which was organised jointly by the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), the Division for the Advancement of Women, and the Division for Sustainable Development. This took place in the Dominican Republic, and focused on the mainstreaming of gender into the Plans of Action of the UN world conferences of Rio, Beijing and Cairo.\n\nFrom 1999 to 2002, she was the Special Adviser on Arts and Culture to the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, a post she resigned from to seek election, along with a number of other writers who felt their inclusion in Nigerian politics would for the good. However, she lost the contest for the Orlu senatorial district seat of Imo State, and drew attention to irregularities and rigging.\n\nShe was recently appointed African Renaissance Ambassador by the African Renaissance Conference with headquarters in the Republic of Benin, and Nigeria's sole representative at the global \"Forum of Arts and Culture for the Implementation of the UN Convention to Combat Desertification\" (UNFAC). Prof Acholonu holds several awards from home and abroad. She was listed in the \"International Who's Who of World Leadership\", USA; the \"African Women Writers' Who's Who\"; the \"Top 500 Women in Nigeria\"; \"Who's Who in Nigeria\"; and the \"International Authors and Writers Who's Who\", published in Cambridge, UK.\n\nAcholonu was the Director of the Catherine Acholonu Research Center, Abuja (CARC), which she co-founded with Ambassador (Dr.) Ajay Prabhakar. The center, based in Abuja, is pioneering research into Africa's pre-history, stone inscriptions, cave art, and linguistic analyses of ancient symbols and communication mediums from the continent. She argues that Nigerian rock-art inscriptions, known as Ikom Monoliths, prove that \"Sub-Saharan African Blacks possessed an organized system of writing before 2000 B.C.\" and that she and her assistants are able to translate these.\n\nIn her book, \"They Lived Before Adam: Prehistoric Origins of the Igbo The Never-Been-Ruled,\" she says that Igbo oral tradition is consistent with scientific research into the origins of humanity. Speaking at the Harlem Book Fair, Acholonu summarised the content of her argument as follows:\n\nOur research includes the origin and meanings of symbols used in every religion and sacred literature all over the world. In these, we found that the Hebrew Bible, the Kabbalahs of the Hebrews and the Chinese, the Hindu Vedas and Ramayana, and the recently discovered Egyptian Christian Bible called the Nag Hammadi are of immense importance in revealing lost knowledge. Wherever we looked we found evidence confirming the claims by geneticists who have been conducting mitochondrial DNA research in four leading universities here in the USA that all mankind came from sub-Saharan Africa, that Eve and Adam were black Africans...Igbo oral traditions confirm the findings of geneticists, that by 208000BC – 208000 BC – human evolution was interrupted and Adam, a hybrid, was created through the process of genetic engineering. However, our findings reveal that the creation of Adam was a downward climb on the evolutionary ladder, because he lost his divine essence, he became divided, no longer whole, or wholesome. All over Africa and in ancient Egyptian reports, oral and written traditions maintain that \"homo erectus\" people were heavenly beings, and possessed mystical powers such as telepathy, levitation, bi-location, that their words could move rocks and mountains and change the course of rivers. Adam lost all that when his right brain was shut down by those who made him.\n\nAcholonu died on 18 March 2014 at the age of 62 from a year-long renal failure.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53331688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53331688", "title": "Cecilia Cleve", "text": "Cecilia Cleve\n\nCecilia Cleve, née Dahlin (died 8 February 1819), was Swedish pioneer librarian. She can be regarded as the first librarian of her sex in Sweden. \n\nCecilia Cleve was the sister of the fashionable furniture maker and designer Nils Dahlin. She married Freidrich August Cleve from Magdeburg in Germany, who was active as a printer and in 1787 opened what is sometime referred to as the first lending library in Stockholm. When she became a widow in 1796, Cecilia Cleve renounced the guild printer privilege she was entitled to after her late spouse, but kept his right to keep a public lending library, and managed it until her death. She did this despite having a widow pension which were sufficient to support herself, and her foster children. She introduced the innovation to catalog the books in alphabetic order, which was at the time an innovation, quarterly subscriptions and advertises in the country papers. She managed the library with success and it reportedly contained 8.000 volumes. By 1800, five other lending libraries had bee founded in Stockholm, but she remained the only female librarian until Eva Unander opened hers at Södermalmstorg in 1816. \n\n"}
{"id": "200298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200298", "title": "Charles Auguste Désiré Filon", "text": "Charles Auguste Désiré Filon\n\nCharles Auguste Désiré Filon (1800–1875) was a French historian. He became professor of history at Douai, at École normale supérieure, and eventually \"inspecteur d'académie\" in Paris. His son, Augustin was also distinguished in the field of learning.\n\nHis principal works were:\n"}
{"id": "13816261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13816261", "title": "Civil Defence Information Bulletin", "text": "Civil Defence Information Bulletin\n\nCivil Defence Information Bulletin were a series of seven public information films dealing with civil defence measures individuals and families could take in the event of a nuclear attack on Great Britain. They were produced for the Home Office and the Scottish Home and Health Department by RHR Productions United Kingdom in 1964. The writer was Nicolas Alwyn and the producer Ronald H. Riley. The films are in black and white.\n\nIn the event of an international crisis, these films were to be broadcast by all television networks in the U.K., in much the same manner as the \"Protect and Survive\" films were to be broadcast in the 1980s. It refers to Civil Defence Handbook No. 10, entitled \"Advising the Householder on Protection against Nuclear Attack.\"\n\nTopics included in the films include:\n\n\n\"Note: the grey warning was discontinued after 1968.\"\n\nThe series is currently viewable on YouTube. The films themselves are as follows:\n"}
{"id": "2002497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2002497", "title": "Critical race theory", "text": "Critical race theory\n\nCritical race theory (CRT) is a theoretical framework in the social sciences that uses critical theory to examine society and culture as they relate to categorizations of race, law, and power. It began as a theoretical movement within American law schools in the mid- to late 1980s as a reworking of critical legal studies on race issues and is loosely unified by two common themes: First, CRT proposes that white supremacy and racial power are maintained over time, and in particular, that the law may play a role in this process. Second, CRT work has investigated the possibility of transforming the relationship between law and racial power, and more broadly, pursues a project of achieving racial emancipation and anti-subordination. Scholars important to the theory include Derrick Bell, Patricia Williams, Kimberlé Williams Crenshaw, and Mari Matsuda. By 2002, over 20 American law schools and at least three law schools in other countries offered critical race theory courses or classes which covered the issue centrally. Critical race theory is taught and innovated in the fields of education, political science, women's studies, ethnic studies, communication, and American studies.\n\nCritics of CRT, including Richard Posner and Alex Kozinski, take issue with its foundations in postmodernism and reliance on moral relativism, social constructionism, and other tenets contrary to classical liberalism.\n\nAccording to the UCLA School of Public Affairs:\nCRT recognizes that racism is engrained in the fabric and system of the American society. The individual racist need not exist to note that institutional racism is pervasive in the dominant culture. This is the analytical lens that CRT uses in examining existing power structures. CRT identifies that these power structures are based on white privilege and white supremacy, which perpetuates the marginalization of people of color.\n\nLegal scholar Roy L. Brooks has defined CRT as \"a collection of critical stances against the existing legal order from a race-based point of view\", and says\n\nit focuses on the various ways in which the received tradition in law adversely affects people of color not as individuals but as a group. Thus, CRT attempts to analyze law and legal traditions through the history, contemporary experiences, and racial sensibilities of racial minorities in this country. The question always lurking in the background of CRT is this: What would the legal landscape look like today if people of color were the decision-makers?\n\nKimberlé Crenshaw, Neil T. Gotanda, Gary Peller, and Kendall Thomas argue that two events were vital to the emergence of CRT: the 1981 Alternative Course on race at Harvard Law School, taught with Derrick Bell, and the 1987 Critical Legal Studies Conference on silence and race.\n\nCritical race theory draws on the priorities and perspectives of both critical legal studies and conventional civil rights scholarship, while sharply contesting both of these fields. Angela P. Harris describes CRT as sharing \"a commitment to a vision of liberation from racism through right reason\" with the civil rights tradition. It deconstructs some premises and arguments of legal theory and simultaneously holds that legally constructed rights are incredibly important. In Angela P. Harris' view, as described by Derrick Bell, critical race theory is committed to \"radical critique of the law (which is normatively deconstructionist) and ... radical emancipation by the law (which is normatively reconstructionist).\"\n\nCRT's theoretical elements are provided by a variety of sources.\n\nRichard Delgado and Jean Stefancic have documented the following major themes as characteristic of work in critical race theory:\n\nCheryl I. Harris and Gloria Ladson-Billings add the theoretical element of whiteness as property. They describe whiteness as the ultimate property which whites alone can possess. It is valuable and is property. The 'property functions of whiteness'—rights to disposition, rights to use and enjoyment, reputation and status property, and the absolute right to exclude—make the American dream a more likely and attainable reality for whites as citizens. For a CRT critic, the white skin color that some Americans possess is like owning a piece of property. It grants privileges to the owner that a renter (or a person of color) would not be afforded.\n\nKaren Pyke documents the theoretical element of internalized racism or internalized racial oppression. The victims of racism begin to believe the ideology that they are inferior and white people and white culture are superior. The internalizing of racism is not due to any weakness, ignorance, inferiority, psychological defect, gullibility, or other shortcomings of the oppressed. Instead, it is how authority and power in all aspects of society contributes to feelings of inequality.\n\nCamara Phyllis Jones defines institutionalized racism as the structures, policies, practices, and norms resulting in differential access to the goods, services, and opportunities of society by race. Institutionalized racism is normative, sometimes legalized and often manifests as inherited disadvantage. It is structural, having been absorbed into our institutions of custom, practice and law, so there need not be an identifiable offender. Indeed, institutionalized racism is often evident as inaction in the face of need. Institutionalized racism manifests itself both in material conditions and in access to power. With regard to material conditions, examples include differential access to quality education, sound housing, gainful employment, appropriate medical facilities and a clean environment.\n\nAs a movement that draws heavily from critical theory, critical race theory shares many intellectual commitments with critical legal studies, critical theory, feminist jurisprudence and postcolonial theory. Though some authors like Tommy J. Curry have pointed out that such epistemic convergences with critical legal studies, critical theory, etc. are emphasized because of the idealist turn in critical race theory which is interested in discourse (how we speak about race) and the theories of white Continental philosophers, over and against the structural and institutional accounts of white supremacy which were at the heart of the realist analysis of racism introduced in Derrick Bell's early works articulated through Black thinkers like W. E. B. Du Bois, Paul Robeson, and Judge Robert L. Carter.\nWill Oremus wrote in \"Slate\"that CRT was radical \"in the sense that it questions fundamental assumptions... And unlike some strands of academic and legal thought, critical race theory has an open and activist agenda, with an emphasis on storytelling and personal experience. It's about righting wrongs, not just questing after knowledge\" and that CRT is not \"radical today in the sense of being outside the mainstream: Critical race theory is widely taught and studied.\"\n\nRecent developments in critical race theory include work relying on updated social psychology research on unconscious bias to justify affirmative action and work relying on law and economics methodology to examine structural inequality and discrimination in the workplace.\n\nThe framework of Latino critical race theory (LatCRT) suggests that the social construction of race is central to how people of color are constrained in society. Tara J. Yosso discusses constraint of people of color can be defined in \"Critical Race Counterstories along the Chicana/Chicano Educational Pipeline\". These tenets are what make LatCrt different because it looks at the differences between Chicano/a students. These tenets are: The \"inter\"centricity of race and racism; the challenge of dominant Ideology; the commitment to social justice; the centrality of experience knowledge; and the interdisciplinary perspective.\n\nRace scholars developed the LatCRT as a critical response to the \"problem of the color line\" first explained by W. E. B. Du Bois. CRT focused on the Black–White paradigm, but LatCRT has moved to consider other racial groups, mainly Chicana/Chicanos. These groups include Latinos/as, Asians, LGBTQ, Native Americans/First Nations, and women of color.\n\nLatCRTs main focus is to advocate for social justice for people who live in marginalized communities, specifically Chicana/Chicano individuals. These marginalized communities are guided by structural arrangements that disadvantage people of color. Social institutions function as dispossessions, disenfranchisement, and discrimination over minority groups, but the LatCRT seeks to give voice to those who are victimized. In order to give voice to those that are disenfranchised, LatCRT has created two common themes.\n\nFirst, CRT proposes that white supremacy and racial power are maintained over time and that the law plays a central role in this process. Different racial groups lack the voice to speak in this civil society. For this reason, the CRT has introduced a new critical form of expressions, called the \"voice of color\". The \"voice of color\" is narratives and storytelling monologues used as devices for conveying personal racial experiences. The \"voices of color\" are also used to counter metanarratives that continue to maintain racial inequality. Thus, the experiences of the oppressed are important aspects for developing a LatCRT analytical approach. Not since the rise of slavery have we seen an institution that so fundamentally shapes the life opportunities of those who bear the label of criminal.\n\nSecond, LatCRT work has investigated the possibility of transforming the relationship between law enforcement and racial power, and more broadly, pursues a project of achieving racial emancipation and anti-subordination. The CRT finds the experiential knowledge of people of color and draws explicitly from these lived experiences as data. The CRT presents research findings through storytelling, chronicles, scenarios, narratives, and parables.\n\nScholars in critical race theory have focused with some particularity on the issues of hate crime and hate speech. In response to the US Supreme Court's opinion in the hate speech case of \"R. A. V. v. City of St. Paul\" (1992), in which the Court struck down an anti-bias ordinance as applied to a teenager who had burned a cross, Mari Matsuda and Charles Lawrence argued that the Court had paid insufficient attention to the history of racist speech and the actual injury produced by such speech.\n\nCritical race theorists have also paid particular attention to the issue of affirmative action. Many scholars have argued in favor of affirmative action on the argument that so-called merit standards for hiring and educational admissions are not race-neutral for a variety of reasons, and that such standards are part of the rhetoric of neutrality through which whites justify their disproportionate share of resources and social benefits.\n\nSome legal scholars have criticized CRT on a number of grounds, such as CRT scholars' reliance on narrative and storytelling, or CRT's critique of objectivity. Judge Richard Posner of the United States Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals has \"label[ed] critical race theorists and postmodernists the 'lunatic core' of 'radical legal egalitarianism.'\" He writes,\nWhat is most arresting about critical race theory is that...it turns its back on the Western tradition of rational inquiry, forswearing analysis for narrative. Rather than marshal logical arguments and empirical data, critical race theorists tell stories — fictional, science-fictional, quasi-fictional, autobiographical, anecdotal—designed to expose the pervasive and debilitating racism of America today. By repudiating reasoned argumentation, the storytellers reinforce stereotypes about the intellectual capacities of nonwhites.\n\nJudge Alex Kozinski of the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals writes that critical race theorists have constructed a philosophy which makes a valid exchange of ideas between the various disciplines unattainable.\nThe radical multiculturalists' views raise insuperable barriers to mutual understanding. Consider the \"Space Traders\" story. How does one have a meaningful dialogue with Derrick Bell? Because his thesis is utterly untestable, one quickly reaches a dead end after either accepting or rejecting his assertion that white Americans would cheerfully sell all blacks to the aliens. The story is also a poke in the eye of American Jews, particularly those who risked life and limb by actively participating in the civil rights protests of the 1960s. Bell clearly implies that this was done out of tawdry self-interest. Perhaps most galling is Bell's insensitivity in making the symbol of Jewish hypocrisy the little girl who perished in the Holocaust—as close to a saint as Jews have. A Jewish professor who invoked the name of Rosa Parks so derisively would be bitterly condemned—and rightly so.\n\nDaniel Farber and Suzanna Sherry have argued that critical race theory, along with critical feminism and critical legal studies, has antisemitic and anti-Asian implications, has worked to undermine notions of democratic community and has impeded dialogue.\n\nHenry Louis Gates Jr. has written a critical evaluation of CRT. Gates emphasizes how campus speech codes and anti-hate speech laws have been applied to anti-white speech, contrary to the intentions of CRT theorists: \"During the year in which Michigan's speech code was enforced, more than twenty blacks were charged—by whites—with racist speech. As Trossen notes, not a single instance of white racist speech was punished.\"\n\nJeffrey J. Pyle wrote in the \"Boston College Law Review\":Critical race theorists attack the very foundations of the [classical] liberal legal order, including equality theory, legal reasoning, Enlightenment rationalism and neutral principles of constitutional law. These liberal values, they allege, have no enduring basis in principle, but are mere social constructs calculated to legitimate white supremacy. The rule of law, according to critical race theorists, is a false promise of principled government, and they have lost patience with false promises.\n\nPeter Wood considers CRT a \"grievance ideology\" and an \"absurdity\". He sees the central tenet of \"white racism in the American legal system\" to be shown false because of items such as the 14th Amendment, the Voting Rights Acts and \"Brown v. Board of Education\".\n\nWithin critical race theory, various sub-groupings have emerged to focus on issues that fall outside the black-white paradigm of race relations as well as issues that relate to the intersection of race with issues of gender, sexuality, class and other social structures. See for example, critical race feminism (CRF), Latino critical race studies (LatCrit) Asian American critical race studies (AsianCrit), South Asian American critical race studies (DesiCrit), and American Indian critical race studies (sometimes called TribalCrit). CRT methodology and analytical framework have also been applied to the study of white immigrant groups.\n\nCritical race theory has also begun to spawn research that looks at understandings of race outside the United States.\n\nCritical race theory has stirred controversy since the 1980s over such issues as its deviation from the ideal of color blindness, promotion of the use of narrative in legal studies, advocacy of \"legal instrumentalism\" as opposed to ideal-driven uses of the law, analysis of the Constitution and existing law as constructed according to and perpetuating racial power, and encouraging legal scholars to be partial on the side of ending racial subordination.\n\nConservative opponents of political appointees including Lani Guinier have included a general critique of critical race theory in their criticism of these figures' actions on racial issues.\n\nCritics including George Will saw resonances between critical race theory's use of storytelling and insistence that race poses challenges to objective judgments in the US and the acquittal of O. J. Simpson.\n\nIn 2012, Matt de la Peña's young adult novel \"Mexican WhiteBoy\", about a boy who wants to grow up to become a baseball player, was banned from being taught in class and the Mexican-American studies program in Tucson, Arizona, was disbanded in part because of their connection to CRT, which was seen to be in violation of a recently passed state law that \"prohibits schools from offering courses that 'advocate ethnic solidarity instead of the treatment of pupils as individuals'.\"\n"}
{"id": "10409827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10409827", "title": "Crónica Mexicayotl", "text": "Crónica Mexicayotl\n\nThe Crónica Mexicayotl is a chronicle of the history of Aztec Empire from the early Nahua migrations to the colonial period, which was written in the Nahuatl language around in the 16th century. Its authorship is debated because the earliest copy is written in the hand of Chimalpahin (1579-1660) while the manuscripts itself states that the author is Fernando Alvarado Tezozómoc (before 1542 - ca. 1610). A description of the manuscript is included in the census of central Mexican prose writings in the \"Handbook of Middle American Indians\".\n\nThe oldest extant version of the manuscript was written by Chimalpahin, this manuscript, which is designated MS374, was held at Cambridge University until 2013. In 2014, it was repatriated by the Mexican National Institute for Archeology and History, and is now on display at the Museum of Anthropology in Mexico City. In the 18th century a copy of the manuscript was made by Lorenzo Boturini who published it in Tome 4 of his 1746 \"Catálogo del museo histórico indiano\". In the late 19th century Boturini's manuscript was copied by father José Pichardo and Antonion León y Gama and their manuscript is designated (MS 311) - this tertiary copy is now held at the Bibliothèque Nationale de France in Paris.\n\nIn 1949, working from photocopies of the tertiary manuscript MS311, Adrian León translated the Crónica Mexicayotl into Spanish and the National Autnonomous University of Mexico published it with the Nahuatl and Spanish text. This version has since been published in several editions, but being based on the tertiary version it contains errors and omissions. In 1997 American ethnohistorians Susan Schroeder and Arthur J. O. Anderson, translated the earliest manuscript MS374 into English and published it as part of their book \"Codex Chimalpahin\". A Spanish translation of by Rafael Tena was published in 2013, and a German translation of the same by Betrthold Riese was published in 2004. \n\nThe problem of the authorship of the Crónica Mexicayotl arose in early studies of the document, since the introduction explicitly names Tezozomoc as the author, although written in Chimalpahin's hand and with additions in which Chimalpahin mentions himself by name. Alexis Aubin considered that Chimalpahin simply copied and annotated the text from an original manuscript by Tezozomoc. Paul Kirchoff argued that there is a stylistic break between the first part of the Cronica and the second part, and argued that the first part was written by Tezozomoc and the second by Chimalpahin. \n\nSusan Schroeder has argued that the Crónica Mexicayotl was Chimalpahin's original work and that only the introduction was by Tezozomoc - and that it was in fact not an introduction to the Crónica Mexicayotl, but an appendix to the work \"Historia o Crónica Mexicana\" which precedes the Crónica Mexicayotl in the volume of the MS374. Schroeder has been contradicted by Peperstraete and Kruell, who argue that Tezozomocs authorship of the main part of the Mexicayotl is established by the introduction (which they argue can only properly be considered an introduction and not an appendix to another work), and by the fact that most of the chronicle is about Tezozomocs family using sources that would have been only available to him. They also add that Tezozomoc's Spanish language \"Crónica Mexicana\", is essentially a translation of the Mexicayotl - making it all the more likely that both works are of his authorship. They consider that in writing the Mexicayotl, Tezozomoc may have also worked from the so-called Crónica X, a lost document of Mexican history which was also used by other authors for their works. As for Chimalpahin's role they argue that Chimalpahin not only copied the manuscript but also added and intercalated some parts into Tezozomoc's text. Peperstraete and Kruell argue that Tezozomoc's original version of the Crónica Mexicayotl would have been elaborated before 1581, because they believe that fray Diego Durán consulted this manuscript in preparing his own \"History of the Indies of New Spain\".\n\n"}
{"id": "41201929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41201929", "title": "D. Graham Burnett", "text": "D. Graham Burnett\n\nD. Graham Burnett is an American historian of science and a writer. He is a professor at Princeton University and an editor at \"Cabinet\", based in Brooklyn, New York. Burnett received his A.B. in history (concentration in the history of science) at Princeton University and an M.Phil and Ph.D. in the history and philosophy of science at Trinity College, Cambridge.\n\nBurnett is a member of the Esthetical Society for Transcendental and Applied Realization (now incorporating the Society for Esthetic Realizers) (ESTAR(SER)), a research collective dedicated to studying the historicity of the Order of the Third Bird.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1258250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1258250", "title": "Digitality", "text": "Digitality\n\nDigitality (also known as digitalism) is used to mean the condition of living in a digital culture, derived from Nicholas Negroponte's book \"Being Digital\" in analogy with modernity and post-modernity.\n\nAspects of digitality include near continuous contact with other people through cell phones, near instantaneous access to information through the World Wide Web, third wave information storage (where any fragment in a text can be searched and used for categorization, such as through search engine Google), and communicating through weblogs and email.\n\nSome of the negative aspects of digitality include computer viruses and spam.\n\nWith the rapidly growing technology, children at increasingly younger ages are learning to speak through the cyber world rather than in face-to-face conversation. They are becoming more digitally literate and creating a new culture in which they communicate more efficiently online than they do in person.\n\nIn the 1990s, literature of the effects of interactivity with information began to be written and published, particularly focused on the immediacy and ubiquity of digital communications , and the interactivity and participatory nature of digital media. While in the tradition of Postmodernism in that they presume a decisive role for media in the formation of personality, culture and social order, they differ fundamentally from the analog critical theory, in that the audience has the ability to do more than create a personal idiolectic text, but instead is able to create new texts which reinforce the behavior of other participants. This made it possible to individuals to express themselves through interactivity of digital media.\n\nMany works have been written outlining the fear of digitality. In the 1990s, the realization of digitality caused many artists to visualize and fear a future where analog would become completely extinct. They viewed digitalization as a deletion of the past.\n\nAlthough the computer was originally created to complete large scale computations, it ultimately progressed into a processing machine that could retrieve and interpret information very quickly. The first personal computer was first introduced by Ed Roberts in 1975 and this sparked the introduction of other \"personal computers\". As technology continued to advance, more and more intelligent computers were coming to light with stronger processing power and wider range of utilities. This new age of technology lead to the invention of the World Wide Web by Tim Berners-Lee in 1990 which revolutionized the modern world. With the introduction of this World Wide Web people were able to more commonly access a data pool online with a trove of information. This information is now easily accessible from a Smartphone which can connect people from anywhere at any time.\n\nDigital technology plays an important role in 21st century life. In the United States, nearly two-thirds of people own smartphones. Using social networking services and online forums, people are able to communicate with other users, regardless of geographic region or time constraints. The rise of this type of interaction partly explains the significant increase in phone use in younger people, and mobile technology is mainly used for the purposes of communication. Digitalism is also slowly replacing many forms of physical aids, such as print encyclopedias and dictionaries, with people turning to newer technology for various needs. In his book, Nicholas Negroponte explains how necessities in the future will be digitized. For example, a large proportion of mass media (including newspapers and magazines) are becoming digitized, and a large percentage of financial transactions made in the United States are being made without the physical exchange of money (e.g. online).\n\nComputation is frequently discussed in debates on digitality. Modern theorists are now choosing to focus more on our relation to computers rather than the computers themselves as an important element of digitality.\n\nSocial media are computer generated tools that allow for people to convey their thoughts, ideas, or interests through digital communities or networks. Social media are online platforms for human interactions with local and global reach designed to circulate information. These platforms support social interactions and give rise to a complex interplay between communication, social practices, and technological infrastructure. This makes it so that everything is connected in real-time, and with these connections, people, information, data and events are instantly and globally spread. This allows for platforms like Twitter to be a media medium where there is an intersection of media and social interaction. Social media is different from social networks but is commonly looked at as the same which makes differentiating them harder. Social media is just that, media. Just like television and ads, social media has a great potential for business and marketing opportunities where companies can formulate custom promotions geared for specific audiences.\n\nDigitality in the 2000s has had a great impact in the world of education. The internet creates an abundance easily accessible and globally diverse resources. The digitization of textbooks and other written texts reduces the demand for the print versions. A vast majority of books now come with digital version of the text that allows for easier access from anywhere. This applies for scholarly textbooks, religious texts, books, and other texts that would normally have to be found in physical form. Digitalism has also made it so that children are now presented with electronic knowledge at a very early age, resulting in the increased implementation of electronics in school systems (for example in electronic learning, mobile learning, and blended learning). Students and academics alike have adopted social media such as Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, and blogging platforms to expand the horizons for learning.\n\nIntercultural communication is an important part of globalization. In the past intercultural communication was made difficult because of the distance separating different cultures. However, with modern-day technology and digitality, it is becoming increasingly possible to interact and learn about other cultures in an environment where people can openly speak. This interaction allows for people to compare and reflect upon both their own and different cultures. The internet creates platforms and forums where people from different backgrounds can develop intercultural communication skills and gain a cross-cultural abundance of knowledge. With the digitality of religious texts and cultural meetings, it is increasingly feasible to be submerged in a culture or religion without the need to travel to the source.\n\n"}
{"id": "39469797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39469797", "title": "Dimensions of globalization", "text": "Dimensions of globalization\n\nManfred Steger, professor of Global Studies at the University of Hawaii at Manoa argues that globalization has four main dimensions: economic, political, cultural, ecological, with ideological aspects of each category. David Held's book \"Global Transformations\" is organized around the same dimensions, though the ecological is not listed in the title. This set of categories relates to the four-domain approach of circles of social life, and Circles of Sustainability.\n\nSteger compares the current study of globalization to the ancient Buddhist parable of blind scholars and their first encounter with an elephant. Similar to the blind scholars, some globalization scholars are too focused on compacting globalization into a singular process and clashes over “which aspect of social life constitutes its primary domain” prevail.\n\nEconomic globalization is the intensification and stretching of economic interrelations around the globe.\n\nPolitical globalization is the intensification and expansion of political interrelations around the globe. Aspects of political globalization include the modern-nation state system and its changing place in today’s world, the role of global governance, and the direction of our global political systems.\n\nMilitary globalization, as subdomain of political globalization, is defined as the intensification and stretching of military power across the globe through various means of military power (nuclear military weapons, radiation weapons simply weapons of mass destruction). This form of globalization occurs across offensive and defensive uses of power and survival in international field. Beyond states, global organizations such as the United Nations also extend military means globally through support given by both Global North and South countries.\n\nCultural globalization is the intensification and expansion of cultural flows across the globe. Culture is a very broad concept and has many facets, but in the discussion on globalization, Steger means it to refer to “the symbolic construction, articulation, and dissemination of meaning.” Topics under this heading include discussion about the development of a global culture, or lack thereof, the role of the media in shaping our identities and desires, and the globalization of languages.\n\nTopics of ecological globalization include population growth, access to food, worldwide reduction in biodiversity, the gap between rich and poor as well as between the global North and global South, human-induced climate change, and global environmental degradation.\n\nGlobalization operates on a cross-cutting \"ideological dimension\" filled with a range of norms, claims, beliefs, and narratives about the phenomenon itself. According to Steger, there are three main types of globalisms (ideologies that endow the concept of globalization with particular values and meanings): market globalism, justice globalism, and religious globalisms. Steger defines them as follows:\n\n\nThese ideologies of globalization (or globalisms) then relate to broader imaginaries and ontologies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51176143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51176143", "title": "Esther before Ahasuerus", "text": "Esther before Ahasuerus\n\nEsther before Ahasuerus is a 1546-47 painting by Tintoretto showing a scene from the Book of Esther.\n\nIt is recorded in the inventory of the collection of Guglielmo Gonzaga, Duke of Mantua in 1627 as hanging alongside \"The Muses\" in a passage in the Palazzo Ducale in Mantua. It was acquired from the Gonzagas by Charles I of Great Britain. On his execution it was valued at £120 and sold, before being reacquired by the royal family on the Restoration. It now hangs in Kensington Palace.\n\n"}
{"id": "12025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12025", "title": "Genealogy", "text": "Genealogy\n\nGenealogy (from ' from ', \"generation\" and ', \"knowledge\"), also known as family history, is the study of families and the tracing of their lineages and history. Genealogists use oral interviews, historical records, genetic analysis, and other records to obtain information about a family and to demonstrate kinship and pedigrees of its members. The results are often displayed in charts or written as narratives.\n\nThe pursuit of family history and origins tends to be shaped by several motives, including the desire to carve out a place for one's family in the larger historical picture, a sense of responsibility to preserve the past for future generations, and a sense of self-satisfaction in accurate storytelling.\n\nAmateur genealogists typically pursue their own ancestry and that of their spouses. Professional genealogists may also conduct research for others, publish books on genealogical methods, teach, or produce their own databases. They may work for companies that provide software or produce materials of use to other professionals and to amateurs. Both try to understand not just where and when people lived, but also their lifestyles, biographies, and motivations. This often requires—or leads to—knowledge of antiquated laws, old political boundaries, migration trends, and historical socioeconomic or religious conditions.\n\nGenealogists sometimes specialize in a particular group, e.g. a Scottish clan; a particular surname, such as in a one-name study; a small community, e.g. a single village or parish, such as in a one-place study; or a particular, often famous, person. Bloodlines of Salem is an example of a specialized family-history group. It welcomes members who can prove descent from a participant of the Salem Witch Trials or who simply choose to support the group.\n\nGenealogists and family historians often join family history societies, where novices can learn from more experienced researchers. Such societies generally serve a specific geographical area. Their members may also index records to make them more accessible, and engage in advocacy and other efforts to preserve public records and cemeteries. Some schools engage students in such projects as a means to reinforce lessons regarding immigration and history. Other benefits include family medical histories with families with serious medical conditions that are hereditary.\n\nThe terms \"genealogy\" and \"family history\" are often used synonymously, but some offer a slight difference in definition. The Society of Genealogists, while also using the terms interchangeably, describes genealogy as the \"establishment of a Pedigree by extracting evidence, from valid sources, of how one generation is connected to the next\" and family history as \"a biographical study of a genealogically proven family and of the community and country in which they lived\". The term \"family history\" may be more popular in Europe, \"genealogy\" more popular in the United States.\n\nIn communitarian societies, one's identity is defined as much by one's kin network as by individual achievement, and the question \"Who are you?\" would be answered by a description of father, mother, and tribe. New Zealand Māori, for example, learn whakapapa (genealogies) to discover who they are.\n\nFamily history plays a part in the practice of some religious belief systems. For example, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) has a doctrine of baptism for the dead, which necessitates that members of that faith engage in family history research.\n\nIn societies such as Australia or the United States, there was by the 20th-century growing pride in the pioneers and nation-builders. Establishing descent from these was, and is, important to such groups as the Daughters of the American Revolution.\n\nModern family history explores new sources of status, such as celebrating the resilience of families that survived generations of poverty or slavery, or the success of families in integrating across racial or national boundaries. Some family histories even emphasize links to celebrity criminals, such as the bushranger Ned Kelly in Australia.\n\nThe growing interest in family history in the media coupled with easier access to online records has allowed those who are curious to do so to start investigating their ancestry. This curiosity can be particularly strong among those whose family histories were lost or unknown due to, for example, adoption or separation from family, perhaps as a result of bereavement.\n\nHistorically, in Western societies the focus of genealogy was on the kinship and descent of rulers and nobles, often arguing or demonstrating the legitimacy of claims to wealth and power. The term often overlapped with heraldry, in which the ancestry of royalty was reflected in their coats of arms. Modern scholars consider many claimed noble ancestries to be fabrications, such as the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle that traced the ancestry of several English kings to the god Woden.\n\nSome family trees have been maintained for considerable periods. The family tree of Confucius has been maintained for over 2,500 years and is listed in the Guinness Book of Records as the largest extant family tree. The fifth edition of the Confucius Genealogy was printed in 2009 by the Confucius Genealogy Compilation Committee (CGCC).\n\nIn modern times, genealogy became more widespread, with commoners as well as nobility researching and maintaining their family trees. Genealogy received a boost in the late 1970s with the television broadcast of \"\", Alex Haley's account of his family line.\n\nWith the advent of the Internet, the number of resources readily accessible to genealogists has vastly increased, resulting in an explosion of interest in the topic. According to some sources, genealogy is one of the most popular topics on the Internet. The Internet has become not only a major source of data for genealogists, but also of education and communication.\n\nIn India, Charans are the Bards who traditionally keep the written genealogy records of various castes. Some notable places where traditional genealogy records are kept include: Hindu genealogy registers at Haridwar (Uttarakhand), Varanasi and Allahabad (Uttar Pradesh), Kurukshetra (Haryana), Trimbakeshwar (Maharashtra), and Chintpurni (Himachal Pradesh).\n\nGenealogical research in the United States was first systematized in the early 19th century, especially by John Farmer (1789–1838). Before Farmer's efforts, tracing one's genealogy was seen as an attempt by colonists to secure a measure of social standing within the British Empire, an aim that was counter to the new republic's egalitarian, future-oriented ethos. As Fourth of July celebrations commemorating the Founding Fathers and the heroes of the Revolutionary War became increasingly popular, however, the pursuit of 'antiquarianism,' which focused on local history, became acceptable as a way to honor the achievements of early Americans. Farmer capitalized on the acceptability of antiquarianism to frame genealogy within the early republic's ideological framework of pride in one's American ancestors. He corresponded with other antiquarians in New England, where antiquarianism and genealogy were well established, and became a coordinator, booster, and contributor to the growing movement. In the 1820s, he and fellow antiquarians began to produce genealogical and antiquarian tracts in earnest, slowly gaining a devoted audience among the American people. Though Farmer died in 1839, his efforts led to the creation of the New England Historic Genealogical Society (NEHGS), one of New England's oldest and most prominent organizations dedicated to the preservation of public records. NEHGS publishes the \"New England Historical and Genealogical Register.\"\n\nThe Genealogical Society of Utah, founded in 1894, later became the Family History Department of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS). The department's research facility, the Family History Library, which has developed the most extensive genealogical record-gathering program in the world, was established to assist in tracing family lineages for special religious ceremonies which LDS adherents believe will seal family units together for eternity. LDS members believe that this fulfilled a biblical prophecy stating that the prophet Elijah would return to \"turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers.\" There is a network of LDS Family HIstory Centers all over the country and around the world, where volunteers assist the public with tracing their ancestors. Brigham Young University offers bachelor's degree, minor, and concentration programs in Family History, and is the only school in North America to offer this.\n\nThe American Society of Genealogists is the scholarly honorary society of the U.S. genealogical field. Founded by John Insley Coddington, Arthur Adams, and Meredith B. Colket, Jr., in December 1940, its membership is limited to 50 living fellows. ASG publishes The Genealogist, a scholarly journal of genealogical research semi-annually since 1980. Fellow of the American Society of Genealogists, who bear the post-nominal acronym FASG, have written some of the most notable genealogical materials of the last half-century.\n\nSome of the most notable scholarly American genealogical journals are \"The American Genealogist\", \"National Genealogical Society Quarterly\", \"The New England Historical and Genealogical Register\", \"The New York Genealogical and Biographical Record\", and \"The Genealogist\".\n\nGenealogical research is a complex process that uses historical records and sometimes genetic analysis to demonstrate kinship. Reliable conclusions are based on the quality of sources, ideally original records, the information within those sources, ideally primary or firsthand information, and the evidence that can be drawn, directly or indirectly, from that information. In many instances, genealogists must skillfully assemble indirect or circumstantial evidence to build a case for identity and kinship. All evidence and conclusions, together with the documentation that supports them, is then assembled to create a cohesive genealogy or family history.\n\nGenealogists begin their research by collecting family documents and stories. This creates a foundation for documentary research, which involves examining and evaluating historical records for evidence about ancestors and other relatives, their kinship ties, and the events that occurred in their lives. As a rule, genealogists begin with the present and work backward in time. Historical, social, and family context is essential to achieving correct identification of individuals and relationships. Source citation is also important when conducting genealogical research. To keep track of collected material, family group sheets and pedigree charts are used. Formerly handwritten, these can now be generated by genealogical software.\n\nBecause a person's DNA contains information that has been passed down relatively unchanged from early ancestors, analysis of DNA is sometimes used for genealogical research. Three DNA types are of particular interest: mitochondrial DNA that we all possess and that is passed down with only minor mutations through the matrilineal (direct female) line; the Y-chromosome, present only in males, which is passed down with only minor mutations through the patrilineal (direct male) line; and the Autosomal DNA, which is found in the 22 non-gender specific chromosomes (autosomes) inherited from both parents, which can uncover relatives from any branch of the family.\n\nA genealogical DNA test allows two individuals to find the probability that they are, or are not, related within an estimated number of generations. Individual genetic test results are collected in databases to match people descended from a relatively recent common ancestor. See, for example, the Molecular Genealogy Research Project. These tests are limited to either the patrilineal or the matrilineal line.\n\nMost genealogy software programs can export information about persons and their relationships in a standardized format called GEDCOM. In that format it can be shared with other genealogists, added to databases, or converted into family web sites. Social networking service (SNS) websites allow genealogists to share data and build their family trees online. Members can upload their family trees and contact other family historians to fill in gaps in their research. In addition to the (SNS) websites, there are other resources that encourage genealogists to connect and share information such as http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/ and http://rsl.rootsweb.ancestry.com/.\n\nVolunteer efforts figure prominently in genealogy. These range from the extremely informal to the highly organized.\n\nOn the informal side are the many popular and useful message boards such as Rootschat and mailing lists on particular surnames, regions, and other topics. These forums can be used to try to find relatives, request record lookups, obtain research advice, and much more.\n\nMany genealogists participate in loosely organized projects, both online and off. These collaborations take numerous forms. Some projects prepare name indexes for records, such as probate cases, and publish the indexes, either online or off. These indexes can be used as finding aids to locate original records. Other projects transcribe or abstract records. Offering record lookups for particular geographic areas is another common service. Volunteers do record lookups or take photos in their home areas for researchers who are unable to travel.\n\nThose looking for a structured volunteer environment can join one of thousands of genealogical societies worldwide. Most societies have a unique area of focus, such as a particular surname, ethnicity, geographic area, or descendancy from participants in a given historical event. Genealogical societies are almost exclusively staffed by volunteers and may offer a broad range of services, including maintaining libraries for members' use, publishing newsletters, providing research assistance to the public, offering classes or seminars, and organizing record preservation or transcription projects.\n\nGenealogy software is used to collect, store, sort, and display genealogical data. At a minimum, genealogy software accommodates basic information about individuals, including births, marriages, and deaths. Many programs allow for additional biographical information, including occupation, residence, and notes, and most also offer a method for keeping track of the sources for each piece of evidence.\n\nMost programs can generate basic kinship charts and reports, allow for the import of digital photographs and the export of data in the GEDCOM format (short for GEnealogical Data COMmunication) so that data can be shared with those using other genealogy software. More advanced features include the ability to restrict the information that is shared, usually by removing information about living people out of privacy concerns; the import of sound files; the generation of family history books, web pages and other publications; the ability to handle same sex marriages and children born out of wedlock; searching the Internet for data; and the provision of research guidance.\n\nPrograms may be geared toward a specific religion, with fields relevant to that religion, or to specific nationalities or ethnic groups, with source types relevant for those groups.\n\nGenealogists use a wide variety of records in their research. To effectively conduct genealogical research, it is important to understand how the records were created, what information is included in them, and how and where to access them.\n\nRecords that are used in genealogy research include:\n\nTo keep track of their citizens, governments began keeping records of persons who were neither royalty nor nobility. In England and Germany, for example, such record keeping started with parish registers in the 16th century. As more of the population was recorded, there were sufficient records to follow a family. Major life events, such as births, marriages, and deaths, were often documented with a license, permit, or report. Genealogists locate these records in local, regional or national offices or archives and extract information about family relationships and recreate timelines of persons' lives.\n\nIn China, India and other Asian countries, genealogy books are used to record the names, occupations, and other information about family members, with some books dating back hundreds or even thousands of years. In the eastern Indian state of Bihar, there is a written tradition of genealogical records among Maithil Brahmins and Karna Kayasthas called \"Panjis\", dating to the 12th century CE. Even today these records are consulted prior to marriages.\n\nIn Ireland, genealogical records were recorded by professional families of \"senchaidh\" (historians) until as late as the mid-17th century. Perhaps the most outstanding example of this genre is Leabhar na nGenealach/The Great Book of Irish Genealogies, by Dubhaltach MacFhirbhisigh (d. 1671), published in 2004.\n\nThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) has engaged in large-scale microfilming of records of genealogical value. Its Family History Library in Salt Lake City, Utah, houses over 2 million microfiche and microfilms of genealogically relevant material, which are also available for on-site research at over 4500 Family History Centers worldwide.\n\nFamilySearch's website includes many resources for genealogists: a FamilyTree database, historical records, digitized family history books, resources and indexing for African American genealogy such as slave and bank records, and a Family History Research Wiki containing research guidance articles.\n\nIndexing is the process of transcribing parish records, city vital records, and other reports, to a digital database for searching. Volunteers and professionals participate in the indexing process. Since 2006, the microfilm in the FamilySearch granite mountain vault is in the process of being digitally scanned, available online, and eventually indexed.\n\nFor example, after the 72-year legal limit for releasing personal information for the United States Census was reached in 2012, genealogical groups cooperated to index the 132 million residents registered in the 1940 United States Census.\n\nBetween 2006 and 2012, the FamilySearch indexing effort produced more than 1 billion searchable records.\n\nGenealogists who seek to reconstruct the lives of each ancestor consider all historical information to be \"genealogical\" information. Traditionally, the basic information needed to ensure correct identification of each person are place names, occupations, family names, first names, and dates. However, modern genealogists greatly expand this list, recognizing the need to place this information in its historical context in order to properly evaluate genealogical evidence and distinguish between same-name individuals. A great deal of information is available for British ancestry with growing resources for other ethnic groups.\n\nFamily names are simultaneously one of the most important pieces of genealogical information, and a source of significant confusion for researchers.\n\nIn many cultures, the name of a person refers to the family to which he or she belongs. This is called the \"family name\", \"surname\", or \"last name\". Patronymics are names that identify an individual based on the father's name. For example, Marga Olafsdottir is Marga, daughter of Olaf, and Olaf Thorsson is Olaf, son of Thor. Many cultures used patronymics before surnames were adopted or came into use. The Dutch in New York, for example, used the patronymic system of names until 1687 when the advent of English rule mandated surname usage. In Iceland, patronymics are used by a majority of the population. In Denmark and Norway patronymics and farm names were generally in use through the 19th century and beyond, though surnames began to come into fashion toward the end of the 19th century in some parts of the country. Not until 1856 in Denmark and 1923 in Norway were there laws requiring surnames.\n\nThe transmission of names across generations, marriages and other relationships, and immigration may cause difficulty in genealogical research. For instance, women in many cultures have routinely used their spouse's surnames. When a woman remarried, she may have changed her name and the names of her children; only her name; or changed no names. Her birth name (maiden name) may be reflected in her children's middle names; her own middle name; or dropped entirely. Children may sometimes assume stepparent, foster parent, or adoptive parent names. Because official records may reflect many kinds of surname change, without explaining the underlying reason for the change, the correct identification of a person recorded identified with more than one name is challenging. Immigrants to America often Americanized their names.\n\nSurname data may be found in trade directories, census returns, birth, death, and marriage records.\n\nGenealogical data regarding given names (first names) is subject to many of the same problems as are family names and place names. Additionally, the use of nicknames is very common. For example, Beth, Lizzie or Betty are all common for Elizabeth, and Jack, John and Jonathan may be interchanged.\n\nMiddle names provide additional information. Middle names may be inherited, follow naming customs, or be treated as part of the family name. For instance, in some Latin cultures, both the mother's family name and the father's family name are used by the children.\n\nHistorically, naming traditions existed in some places and cultures. Even in areas that tended to use naming conventions, however, they were by no means universal. Families may have used them some of the time, among some of their children, or not at all. A pattern might also be broken to name a newborn after a recently deceased sibling, aunt or uncle.\n\nAn example of a naming tradition from England, Scotland and Ireland:\nAnother example is in some areas of Germany, where siblings were given the same first name, often of a favourite saint or local nobility, but different second names by which they were known (\"Rufname\"). If a child died, the next child of the same gender that was born may have been given the same name. It is not uncommon that a list of a particular couple's children will show one or two names repeated.\n\nPersonal names have periods of popularity, so it is not uncommon to find many similarly named people in a generation, and even similarly named families; e.g., \"William and Mary and their children David, Mary, and John\".\n\nMany names may be identified strongly with a particular gender; e.g., William for boys, and Mary for girls. Others may be ambiguous, e.g., Lee, or have only slightly variant spellings based on gender, e.g., Frances (usually female) and Francis (usually male).\n\nWhile the locations of ancestors' residences and life events are core elements of the genealogist's quest, they can often be confusing. Place names may be subject to variant spellings by partially literate scribes. Locations may have identical or very similar names. For example, the village name Brockton occurs six times in the border area between the English counties of Shropshire and Staffordshire. Shifts in political borders must also be understood. Parish, county, and national borders have frequently been modified. Old records may contain references to farms and villages that have ceased to exist. When working with older records from Poland, where borders and place names have changed frequently in past centuries, a source with maps and sample records such as \"A Translation Guide to 19th-Century Polish-Language Civil-Registration Documents\" can be invaluable.\n\nAvailable sources may include vital records (civil or church registration), censuses, and tax assessments. Oral tradition is also an important source, although it must be used with caution. When no source information is available for a location, circumstantial evidence may provide a probable answer based on a person's or a family's place of residence at the time of the event.\n\nMaps and gazetteers are important sources for understanding the places researched. They show the relationship of an area to neighboring communities and may be of help in understanding migration patterns. Family tree mapping using online mapping tools such as Google Earth (particularly when used with Historical Map overlays such as those from the David Rumsey Historical Map Collection) assist in the process of understanding the significance of geographical locations.\n\nIt is wise to exercise extreme caution with dates. Dates are more difficult to recall years after an event, and are more easily mistranscribed than other types of genealogical data. Therefore, one should determine whether the date was recorded at the time of the event or at a later date. Dates of birth in vital records or civil registrations and in church records at baptism are generally accurate because they were usually recorded near the time of the event. Family Bibles are often a source for dates, but can be written from memory long after the event. When the same ink and handwriting is used for all entries, the dates were probably written at the same time and therefore will be less reliable since the earlier dates were probably recorded well after the event. The publication date of the Bible also provides a clue about when the dates were recorded since they could not have been recorded at any earlier date.\n\nPeople sometimes reduce their age on marriage, and those under \"full age\" may increase their age in order to marry or to join the armed forces. Census returns are notoriously unreliable for ages or for assuming an approximate death date. Ages over 15 in the 1841 census in the UK are rounded down to the next lower multiple of five years.\n\nAlthough baptismal dates are often used to approximate birth dates, some families waited years before baptizing children, and adult baptisms are the norm in some religions. Both birth and marriage dates may have been adjusted to cover for pre-wedding pregnancies.\n\nCalendar changes must also be considered. In 1752, England and her American colonies changed from the Julian to the Gregorian calendar. In the same year, the date the new year began was changed. Prior to 1752 it was 25 March; this was changed to 1 January. Many other European countries had already made the calendar changes before England had, sometimes centuries earlier. By 1751 there was an 11-day discrepancy between the date in England and the date in other European countries.\n\nFor further detail on the changes involved in moving from the Julian to the Gregorian calendar, see: Gregorian calendar.\n\nThe French Republican Calendar or French Revolutionary Calendar was a calendar proposed during the French Revolution, and used by the French government for about 12 years from late 1793 to 1805, and for 18 days in 1871 in Paris. Dates in official records at this time use the revolutionary calendar and need \"translating\" into the Gregorian calendar for calculating ages etc. There are various websites which do this.\n\nOccupational information may be important to understanding an ancestor's life and for distinguishing two people with the same name. A person's occupation may have been related to his or her social status, political interest, and migration pattern. Since skilled trades are often passed from father to son, occupation may also be indirect evidence of a family relationship.\n\nIt is important to remember that a person may change occupations, and that titles change over time as well. Some workers no longer fit for their primary trade often took less prestigious jobs later in life, while others moved upwards in prestige. Many unskilled ancestors had a variety of jobs depending on the season and local trade requirements. Census returns may contain some embellishment; e.g., from labourer to mason, or from journeyman to master craftsman. Names for old or unfamiliar local occupations may cause confusion if poorly legible. For example, an ostler (a keeper of horses) and a hostler (an innkeeper) could easily be confused for one another. Likewise, descriptions of such occupations may also be problematic. The perplexing description \"ironer of rabbit burrows\" may turn out to describe an ironer (profession) in the Bristol district named Rabbit Burrows. Several trades have regionally preferred terms. For example, \"shoemaker\" and \"cordwainer\" have the same meaning. Finally, many apparently obscure jobs are part of a larger trade community, such as watchmaking, framework knitting or gunmaking.\n\nOccupational data may be reported in occupational licenses, tax assessments, membership records of professional organizations, trade directories, census returns, and vital records (civil registration). Occupational dictionaries are available to explain many obscure and archaic trades.\n\nInformation found in historical or genealogical sources can be unreliable and it is good practice to evaluate all sources with a critical eye. Factors influencing the reliability of genealogical information include: the knowledge of the informant (or writer); the bias and mental state of the informant (or write; the passage of time and the potential for copying and compiling errors.\n\nThe quality of census data has been of special interest to historians, who have investigated reliability issues.\n\nThe informant is the individual who provided the recorded information. Genealogists must carefully consider who provided the information and what he or she knew. In many cases the informant is identified in the record itself. For example, a death certificate usually has two informants: a physician who provides information about the time and cause of death and a family member who provides the birth date, names of parents, etc.\n\nWhen the informant is not identified, one can sometimes deduce information about the identity of the person by careful examination of the source. One should first consider who was alive (and nearby) when the record was created. When the informant is also the person recording the information, the handwriting can be compared to other handwriting samples.\n\nWhen a source does not provide clues about the informant, genealogists should treat the source with caution. These sources can be useful if they can be compared with independent sources. For example, a census record by itself cannot be given much weight because the informant is unknown. However, when censuses for several years concur on a piece of information that would not likely be guessed by a neighbor, it is likely that the information in these censuses was provided by a family member or other informed person. On the other hand, information in a single census cannot be confirmed by information in an undocumented compiled genealogy since the genealogy may have used the census record as its source and might therefore be dependent on the same misinformed individual.\n\nEven individuals who had knowledge of the fact, sometimes intentionally or unintentionally provided false or misleading information. A person may have lied in order to obtain a government benefit (such as a military pension), avoid taxation, or cover up an embarrassing situation (such as the existence of a non-marital child). A person with a distressed state of mind may not be able to accurately recall information. Many genealogical records were recorded at the time of a loved one's death, and so genealogists should consider the effect that grief may have had on the informant of these records.\n\nThe passage of time often affects a person's ability to recall information. Therefore, as a general rule, data recorded soon after the event is usually more reliable than data recorded many years later. However, some types of data are more difficult to recall after many years than others. One type especially prone to recollection errors is dates. Also the ability to recall is affected by the significance that the event had to the individual. These values may have been affected by cultural or individual preferences.\n\nGenealogists must consider the effects that copying and compiling errors may have had on the information in a source. For this reason, sources are generally categorized in two categories: original and derivative. An original source is one that is not based on another source. A derivative source is information taken from another source. This distinction is important because each time a source is copied, information about the record may be lost and errors may result from the copyist misreading, mistyping, or miswriting the information. Genealogists should consider the number of times information has been copied and the types of derivation a piece of information has undergone. The types of derivatives include: photocopies, transcriptions, abstracts, translations, extractions, and compilations.\n\nIn addition to copying errors, compiled sources (such as published genealogies and online pedigree databases) are susceptible to misidentification errors and incorrect conclusions based on circumstantial evidence. Identity errors usually occur when two or more individuals are assumed to be the same person. Circumstantial or indirect evidence does not explicitly answer a genealogical question, but either may be used with other sources to answer the question, suggest a probable answer, or eliminate certain possibilities. Compilers sometimes draw hasty conclusions from circumstantial evidence without sufficiently examining all available sources, without properly understanding the evidence, and without appropriately indicating the level of uncertainty.\n\nIn genealogical research, information can be obtained from primary or secondary sources. Primary sources are records that were made at the time of the event, for example a death certificate would be a primary source for a person's death date and place. Secondary sources are records that are made days, weeks, months, or even years after an event.\n\n"}
{"id": "3013990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3013990", "title": "Ibn Sa'd", "text": "Ibn Sa'd\n\nAbū ‘Abd Allāh Muḥammad ibn Sa‘d ibn Manī‘ al-Baṣrī al-Hāshimī kātib al-Wāqidī or simply Ibn Sa'd () and nicknamed \"Scribe of Waqidi\" (Katib al-Waqidi), was a scholar and Arabian biographer. Ibn Sa'd was born in 784 CE (168 AH) and died in 845 CE (230 AH). Ibn Sa'd was from Basra, but lived mostly in Baghdad, hence the \"nisba\" al-Basri and al-Baghdadi respectively. He is said to have died at the age of 62 in Baghdad and was buried in the cemetery of the Syrian gate. Ibn Sa'd was also a proponent of the Muʿtazila doctrine of the created Quran and supported the king Al-Ma'mun's stance on the matter.\n\nThe \"Book of the Major Classes\" (Arabic: \"Kitab Tabaqat Al-Kubra\") is a compendium of biographical information about famous Islamic personalities. This eight-volume work contains the lives of Muhammad, his Companions and Helpers, including those who fought at the Battle of Badr as a special class, and of the following generation, the Followers, who received their traditions from the Companions. Ibn Sa'd's authorship of this work is attested in a postscript to the book added by a later writer. In this notice he is described as a \"client of al-Husayn ibn ‘Abdullah of the ‘Abbasid family\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15717350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15717350", "title": "Ihor Ševčenko", "text": "Ihor Ševčenko\n\nIhor Ševčenko (1922–2009) was a Polish-born philologist and historian of Ukrainian origin. He died 26 December 2009 in Cambridge, Massachusetts.\n\nŠevčenko was born in Radość near Warsaw, Poland of Ukrainian parents and was educated at the Adam Mickiewicz Gymnasium and Lycaeum in Warsaw, the Deutsche Karlsuniversität in Prague, the Université Catholique de Louvain, and the Foundation Byzantine of Professor Henri Grégoire (as member of the Seminar) in Brussels. His work reflects the influence of the numerous scholarly traditions he encountered via this education, and the multiple source languages from which he was able to draw: he learned Greek and Latin at the Gymnasium in Warsaw, encountered German, Czech and francophone approaches to scholarship in Prague and Brussels, and is a fluent native speaker of Ukrainian, Russian and Polish. Ševčenko later moved to the United States, where he taught at the University of California, Berkeley, the University of Michigan, Columbia University, and Harvard University, where he was Dumbarton Oaks Professor of Byzantine History and Literature emeritus until his death. He was also a member of the Advisory Board of the Collegium Artium in Kraków. During his early years in the United States, Ševčenko became acquainted with Ernst Kantorowicz, an eminent medievalist who worked on political and intellectual history. Ševčenko was married to Margaret (née Bentley) Ševčenko and to Nancy (née Patterson) Ševčenko; both marriages ended in divorce.\n\nŠevčenko has contributed to two connected yet distinct disciplines, Byzantine, Slavic studies, and Ukrainian Studies. His work addresses Byzantine written culture and society from the Late Antique period to the 15th century, and explores contact between the Slavic world and Byzantium from the medieval to the early modern period. Ševčenko has written on philology, literature, epigraphy, paleography and codicology. He was noted for the engaging, \"detective novel\" style of his prose, as in his famous article “The Date and Author of the So-Called Fragments of Toparcha Gothicus”, which reveals that the text considered the earliest surviving narrative source on the history of the Kievan Rus’ is a 19th-century forgery crafted by its “discoverer” and editor Carl Benedict Hase.\n\nŠevčenko’s approach was noted for its extensive engagement with primary source material, not simply as edited texts but as original manuscripts. He uses these sources to elucidate key issues in Byzantine and Slavic studies, such as the evangelizing mission of Cyril and Methodius among the Slavs, Byzantine political ideology and its reception in the Slavic world, and the Zealot uprising in 14th century Thessaloniki. His most recent publication was an edition and English translation of the only extant secular biography in Byzantine literature, that of the life of the 9th century emperor Basil I, which was written by scholars associated with Basil’s grandson, Emperor Constantine VII. Basil’s biography is a major source for the political and cultural history of Byzantium and its neighbors in the 9th and 10th centuries.\n\nWhile working with displaced Ukrainian persons after World War ii, Ševčenko wrote to George Orwell and received permission to translate \"Animal Farm\" into Ukrainian, one of the first translations of the book. Orwell agreed, waiving his royalties and also writing a detailed preface for the edition.\n\nŠevčenko's law, or Ševčenko's law of the dog and the forest is the tendency of historians to repeat the coverage and the work of previous historians, to the disadvantage of general historical coverage. The situation is compared to a dog and a forest. A dog going into a virgin forest picks a tree at random, and urinates against it. Despite the tree having no intrinsic outstanding attraction as an object for urinating against, other dogs subsequently entering the same forest will show a tendency to urinate against the same tree.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31369594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31369594", "title": "Ivan Venedikov", "text": "Ivan Venedikov\n\nIvan Yordanov Venedikov () was a Bulgarian archaeologist, historian, thracologist and philologist who studied Thracian and medieval history, archaeology, art and culture; Bulgarian cultural and artistic heritage.\n\nIvan Venedikov was born in Sofia on 10 January 1916. Between 1934 and 1939 he studied classical phylology in the Sofia University. Among his lectors were Aleksandar Balabanov, Dimitar Dechev, Gavril Katsarov, Veselin Beshevliev, Bogdan Filov, Petar Mutafchiev. His first work was \"Phonetics of the Latin Inscriptions from the Bulgarian Lands\", published in 1942. Between 1941 and 1944 he worked in the Museum in Skopje and made his first excavations discovering the large antique and medieval town Bargala and the medieval Kozyak. Venedikov worked in the Department of Antiquity in the National Archaeological Museum between 1945 and 1973 and later worked in the Department of Antique Archaeology in the National Historical Museum. In 1981 he became a Professor. He was also a lecturer on Thracian history in the Sofia University.\n\nVenedikov had more than 150 publications on Thracian history, culture, art and language based on many studied archaeological sites and monuments. He made a periodization of the Thracian art; researched and restored the outlook of the Thracian chariots. In 1972, he organized an exhibition of Thracian art which included the finest objects from all over Bulgaria which travelled in many cities around the world. He also studied the old Bulgar inscriptions and concluded that the Bulgar language was still spoken in the beginning of the 9th century. Venedikov also proved that Preslav, which would become capital of the Bulgarian Empire in 893, already existed as a significant settlement in the beginning of the 9th century. In 1979 he made monography on the military and administrative organization of the Bulgarian Empire and made research on many titles and offices of the Bulgarian rulers and nobility.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36749090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36749090", "title": "Janusz Jasiński", "text": "Janusz Jasiński\n\nJanusz Jasiński (born September 4, 1928 in Wołomin) is a Polish historian. He finished an undergraduate degree in history at the Catholic University of Lublin in 1954. He obtained his PhD, under the supervision of Stefan Kieniewicz in 1964 from the University of Warsaw with the dissertation on agrarian reforms in Warmia at the turn of the 19th century (\"Reformy agrarne na Warmii w początkach XIX wieku\"). He was habilitated in 1982 at the Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń on the basis of his work on national identity and consciousness in 19th century Warmia (\"Świadomość narodowa na Warmii w XIX wieku\").\n\nSince 1993, he has been a \"professor extraordinarius\" at the Historical Institute of the Polish Academy of Sciences, and since 1996 a \"professor ordinarius\". Between 1969 and 1980 Jasiński was an editor of the journal \"Komunikaty Mazursko-Warmińskie\" (Mazurian-Warmian Communications). As the editor he took special care to establish the journal's independence from the political influence of the authorities of the People's Republic of Poland.\n\nJasiński has published more than 600 works, including 9 books and 13 edited monographs. He has been the recipient of numerous awards, including the Knight's and the Officer's Cross of Polonia Restituta, the Secretary's Medal of the Polish Academy of Sciences, the Zygmunt Gloger Award, and others, including an honorary citizenship of the city of Olsztyn. He retired in 1998.\n"}
{"id": "54265018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54265018", "title": "Johann Conrad Fischer", "text": "Johann Conrad Fischer\n\nJohann Conrad Fischer (14 September 1773 - 26 December 1854) was a Swiss metallurgist, inventor, and pioneer in the steel industry. As an entrepreneur he also held public offices. He was the first president of the City Council of Schaffhausen. He was the founder of Georg Fischer AG.\n\nJohann Conrad Fischer was born on 14 September 1773 as son of the entrepreneur Johann Conrad Fischer in Schaffhausen. After attending the \"Gymnasium\" in Schaffhausen, he learned the trades of coppersmith and fire pump maker in his father's company. Between 1792 and 1794 he travelled through Germany, Scandinavia and England. After his return to Switzerland in 1794 he took over the management of the family business in 1797. In 1802 he purchased several former mills in Muehlental (SH) section of the Merishausertal on the northern outskirts of Schaffhausen and set up a small foundry for the production of cast iron bells and fire pump engines. In 1806, as the first on continental Europe, he began to cast steel. Once the Continental Blockade was lifted in 1814, Fischer undertook a study trip to England and subsequently published his experiences in a travel journal. In particular he was critical of the economic upheavals he observed in the Midlands, the beginnings of the Industrial Revolution. He continued to travel through England, Austria, Germany and France. In France he was invited by the Ministry of the Interior to set up a business there. He began to experiment with the addition of alloys to cast steel. In 1807 he cast steel with manganese, in 1814 he mixed so-called yellow steel with cooper, in 1819 with silver, and in 1823 with chromium. In 1827 he successfully created a cast iron which could be employed as malleable iron and obtained a patent in Austria for this invention. His last alloyed cast iron consisted to one-third part of copper, which he named \"Fischer-Metall\". This would be useful much later for railroad axials.\n\nIn 1797 Johann Conrad Fischer married Catharina von Waldkirch and they had three sons who carried on their father's work:\nJohann Conrad Fischer died in Schaffhausen at the age of 81. His grandson Georg Fischer II (1834-1887) and great-grandson George Fischer III (1864-1925) continued to expand the family business until the beginning of the 20th century.\n\nFischer was more active as an inventor than as manufacturer and businessman. In 1819 he supported the establishment of a steel factory near Montbeliard in eastern France. He held license agreements with manufacturing companies in London and Luettich. Due to its favorable legal conditions, he patented nearly all his inventions in Austria. Furthermore he set up three steel foundries in Austria which were managed by his sons: 1827 in Hainfeld, 1833 in Traisen and 1839 in Salzburg.\n\nJohann Conrad Fischer held several public offices in Schaffhausen beginning in 1797. His opinion was often sought by newspapers and journalists in matters related to railroads, coinage, import and export taxation, as well as constitutional matters. He maintained regular correspondence with many friends not only in Switzerland, but also in numerous other European countries. Fischer is regarded as one of the leading public figures of Schaffhausen in the 19th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "33224090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33224090", "title": "John Hirst (historian)", "text": "John Hirst (historian)\n\nJohn Bradley Hirst, (9 July 1942 – 3 February 2016) was an Australian historian and social commentator. He taught at La Trobe University from 1968 until his retirement in 2006, and also served on the boards of Film Australia and the National Museum of Australia. He has been described as an \"historian, public intellectual, and active citizen\".\n\nBorn in Adelaide, Hirst attended Unley High School and undertook his undergraduate and postgraduate study at the University of Adelaide. Abandoning an early desire to become a Methodist minister, in 1968 he was appointed a lecturer at Melbourne's new La Trobe University, where he remained until the end of his career. His wife and fellow-student Christine accompanied him to Melbourne. They had two children, Catherine and David. Hirst was subsequently head of department and Reader in History at La Trobe. He retired in 2006, and was an Emeritus Scholar at La Trobe until his death. Hirst was seconded to the University of Melbourne to edit \"Historical Studies\", Australia's leading historical journal, from 1977 to 1980. In retirement, he travelled regularly to Sydney to instruct, without remuneration, groups of post-graduate students in thesis writing. \nHirst died on 3 February 2016 at the age of 73.\n\nHirst had a distinguished career \"in teaching, supervision and research. He developed new subjects and methodologies to teach them.\" He produced a large number of important articles, chapters and books on Australian history. His academic interests were wide-ranging, including social, cultural and political history. Hirst's goal was to elucidate the qualities and characteristics of Australian society and how they had developed. Jeremy Sammut has described him as \"an elegant and outstanding stylist, as adept at clarifying complex issues by reducing them to their essentials as he was at crafting the pithy line that eliminated all doubt his interpretation was true and correct\". In his historical work, Hirst's colleague at La Trobe University, Alan Frost, has noted that Hirst \"challenged orthodoxies and produced many new insights\".\n\nHirst wrote two seminal books on colonial New South Wales which Frank Bongiorno has described as displaying \"a raw intellectual power\": \"Convict Society and its Enemies\" (1983) and \"The Strange Birth of Colonial Democracy\" (1988) (both reprinted as \"Freedom on the Fatal Shore\" in 2008). \"Convict Society and its Enemies\" was particularly influential, arguing that rather than being a brutal slave society, early New South Wales was a place where rights and freedoms were well-established from the beginning. Hirst's study of Federation, \"The Sentimental Nation\", was also a ground-breaking work, arguing that national sentiment was more important than economics in uniting the nation. Alan Frost has described Hirst's shorter analyses as notable: \"Distance in Australia: Was It a Tyrant?\" (1975), his response to Geoffrey Blainey's most famous concept, \"deserves much more attention than it now receives\"; his \"Egalitarianism\" (1986) challenges \"received wisdom about colonial life\". Many of his best shorter pieces were collected in \"Sense and Nonsense in Australian History\" (2009). A major achievement of Hirst's was a project to index the Melbourne \"Argus\" newspaper (1860–1909). In addition to those concerning Australian history there was his pioneering subject designed to inform students about Australia's European cultural heritage.\" This work was published as \"The Shortest History of Europe\" and has been translated into nine languages (Swedish, Greek, Chinese, Arabic, Spanish, German, Portuguese, Russian, Turkish and Korean).\n\nHistorian Frank Bongiorno described Hirst as a \"creative historian capable of engaging a wide audience, as well as a public intellectual who delighted, infuriated and provoked\". He contributed many influential opinion pieces and commentaries to leading Australian newspapers and journals. Jeremy Sammut has noted that Hirst was motivated by an independent mind and a distaste for unthinking conformity. He \"defied simplistic categorisation as a partisan because his politics were idiosyncratic\". Hirst described himself as an old-fashioned social democrat. To read Hirst is not to encounter a reactionary but \"to be delighted as he marshals facts, logic and evidence with unarguable skill and precision to establish the heterodox case, while conveying powerful insights into whatever historical experience or process is discussed\". A common theme in the obituaries cited is that Hirst was fearlessly honest, whatever the subject. As Sammut has noted, he was inspired by a commitment to \"the rigorous pursuit of historical truth that drove him to explore the deeper patterns and meanings of the past, and the contemporary implications, that others had missed or misled us about\".\n\nNever an ivory tower academic, Hirst held a number of influential appointments during the course of his career. He was a member of the Prime Minister's Republic Advisory Committee, the chair of the Commonwealth Civics Education Group, a member of the Film Australia Board, a council member of the National Museum of Australia, and a member of the board of Old Parliament House in Canberra. He wrote the official history of Australia for new citizens and took a prominent part in the history summit convened by Prime Minister John Howard in 2006. Hirst advised the Victorian Government on the school history curriculum and was history adviser to the National Curriculum Authority. He was elected to the Academy of the Social Sciences in Australia in 1986. A committed republican, Hirst was the Convenor of the Republican Movement in Victoria.\n"}
{"id": "39367022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39367022", "title": "Katrina Honeyman", "text": "Katrina Honeyman\n\nKatrina Honeyman (18 June 1950 – 23 October 2011) was a British economic historian and Professor of Social and Economic History at the University of Leeds. Much of her work focused on the role of women and children in industrialisation in Britain.\n\nHoneyman was born in London, one of the five children of John and Eleanor Honeyman, and the family later moved to Manchester. She graduated in Economic History and Sociology at the University of York and then gained a Ph.D. at the University of Nottingham: her thesis work on the social background of early entrepreneurs was later published as \"Origins of Enterprise\".\n\nHoneyman held temporary posts at the universities of Aberdeen and Manchester before taking up an appointment in the School of Economic and Social Studies at the University of Leeds in 1979. She worked at Leeds until her death. She was director of the Centre for Business History at Leeds 1993-1997, and in 1997 she moved to the university's School of History, being appointed Professor of Social and Economic History in 2008.\n\nShe was President of the Association of Business Historians for a year, served twice on the council of the Economic History Society, and was editor of the journal \"Textile History\". She was a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society.\n"}
{"id": "44086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44086", "title": "Lew Wallace", "text": "Lew Wallace\n\nLewis Wallace (April 10, 1827February 15, 1905) was an American lawyer, Union general in the American Civil War, governor of the New Mexico Territory, politician, diplomat, and author from Indiana. Among his novels and biographies, Wallace is best known for his historical adventure story, \"\" (1880), a bestselling novel that has been called \"the most influential Christian book of the nineteenth century.\"\n\nWallace's military career included service in the Mexican–American War and the American Civil War. He was appointed Indiana's adjutant general and commanded the 11th Indiana Infantry Regiment. Wallace, who attained the rank of major general, participated in the Battle of Fort Donelson, the Battle of Shiloh, and the Battle of Monocacy. He also served on the military commission for the trials of the Lincoln assassination conspirators, and presided over the trial of Henry Wirz, the Confederate commandant of the Andersonville prison camp.\n\nWallace resigned from the U.S. Army in November 1865 and briefly served as a major general in the Mexican army, before returning to the United States. Wallace was appointed governor of the New Mexico Territory (1878–81) and served as U.S. minister to the Ottoman Empire (1881–85). Wallace retired to his home in Crawfordsville, Indiana, where he continued to write until his death in 1905.\n\nLewis \"Lew\" Wallace was born on April 10, 1827, in Brookville, Indiana. He was the second of four sons born to Esther French Wallace (née Test) and David Wallace. Lew's father, a graduate of the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, New York, left the military in 1822 and moved to Brookville, where he established a law practice and entered Indiana politics. David served in the Indiana General Assembly and later as the state's lieutenant governor, and governor, and as a member of Congress. Lew Wallace's maternal grandfather was circuit court judge and Congressman John Test.\n\nIn 1832 the family moved to Covington, Indiana, where Lew's mother died from tuberculosis on July 14, 1834. In December 1836, David married nineteen-year-old Zerelda Gray Sanders Wallace, who later became a prominent suffragist and temperance advocate. In 1837, after David's election as governor of Indiana, the family moved to Indianapolis.\n\nLew began his formal education at the age of six at a public school in Covington, but he much preferred the outdoors. Wallace had a talent for drawing and loved to read, but he was a discipline problem at school. In 1836, at the age of nine, Lew joined his older brother in Crawfordsville, Indiana, where he briefly attended the preparatory school division of Wabash College, but soon transferred to another school more suitable for his age. In 1840, when Wallace was thirteen, his father sent him to a private academy at Centerville, Indiana, where his teacher encouraged Lew's natural affinity for writing. Wallace returned to Indianapolis the following year.\n\nSixteen-year-old Lew went out to earn his own wages in 1842, after his father refused to pay for more schooling. Wallace found a job copying records at the Marion County clerk's office and lived in an Indianapolis boardinghouse. He also joined the Marion Rifles, a local militia unit, and began writing his first novel, \"The Fair God\", but it was not published until 1873. Wallace said in his autobiography that he had never been a member of any organized religion, but he did believe \"in the Christian conception of God\".\n\nBy 1846, at the start of the Mexican–American War, the nineteen-year-old Wallace was studying law at his father's law office, but left that pursuit to establish a recruiting office for the Marion Volunteers in Indianapolis. He was appointed a second lieutenant, and on June 19, 1846, mustered into military service with the Marion Volunteers (also known as Company H, 1st Indiana Volunteer Infantry). Wallace rose to the position of regimental adjutant and the rank of first lieutenant while serving in the army of Zachary Taylor, but Wallace personally did not participate in combat. Wallace was mustered out of the volunteer service on June 15, 1847, and returned to Indiana, where he intended to practice law. After the war, Wallace and William B. Greer operated a Free Soil newspaper, \"The Free Soil Banner,\" in Indianapolis.\n\nIn 1848 Wallace met Susan Arnold Elston at the Crawfordsville home of Henry Smith Lane, Wallace's former commander during the Mexican War. Susan was the daughter of Major Isaac Compton Elston, a wealthy Crawfordsville merchant, and Maria Akin Elston, whose family were Quakers from upstate New York. Susan accepted Wallace's marriage proposal in 1849, and they were married in Crawfordsville on May 6, 1852. The Wallaces had one son, Henry Lane Wallace, who was born on February 17, 1853.\n\nWallace was admitted to the bar in February 1849, and moved from Indianapolis to Covington, Indiana, where he established a law practice. In 1851 Wallace was elected prosecuting attorney of Indiana's 1st congressional district, but he resigned in 1853 and moved his family to Crawfordsville, in Montgomery County, Indiana. Wallace continued to practice law and was elected as a Democrat to a two-year term in the Indiana Senate in 1856. From 1849 to 1853, his office was housed in the Fountain County Clerk's Building.\n\nWhile living in Crawfordsville, Wallace organized the Crawfordsville Guards Independent Militia, later called the Montgomery Guards. During the winter of 1859–60, after reading about elite units of the French Army in Algeria, Wallace adopted the Zouave uniform and their system of training for the group. The Montgomery Guards would later form the core of his first military command, the 11th Indiana Volunteer Infantry, during the American Civil War.\n\nWallace, a staunch supporter of the Union, became a member of the Republican party, and began his full-time military career soon after the Confederate attack on Fort Sumter, South Carolina, on April 12, 1861. Indiana's governor, the Republican Oliver P. Morton, asked Wallace to help recruit Indiana volunteers for the Union army. Wallace, who also sought a military command, agreed to become the state's adjutant general on the condition that he would be given command of a regiment of his choice. Indiana's quota of six regimental units was filled within a week, and Wallace took command of the 11th Indiana Volunteer Infantry Regiment, which was mustered into the Union army on April 25, 1861. Wallace received his formal commission as a colonel in the Union army the following day.\n\nOn June 5, 1861, Wallace went with the 11th Indiana to Cumberland, Maryland, and on June 12, the regiment won a minor battle at Romney, Virginia, (in present-day West Virginia). The rout boosted morale for Union troops and led to the Confederate evacuation of Harpers Ferry on June 18. On September 3, 1861, Wallace was promoted to brigadier general of U.S. Army volunteers and given command of a brigade.\n\nOn February 4 and 5, 1862, prior to the advance against Fort Henry, Union troops under the command of Brig. Gen. Ulysses S. Grant and a flotilla of Union ironclads and timberclad gunboats under the command of Flag Officer Andrew Hull Foote made their way toward the Confederate fort along the Tennessee River in western Tennessee. Wallace's brigade, which was attached to Brig. Gen. Charles F. Smith's division, was ordered to occupy Fort Heiman, an uncompleted Confederate fort across the river from Fort Henry. Wallace's troops secured the deserted fort and watched the Union attack on Fort Henry from their hilltop position. On February 6, after more than an hour of bombardment from the Union gunboats, Confederate Brig. Gen. Lloyd Tilghman, surrendered Fort Henry to Grant.\nGrant's superior, Maj. Gen. Henry W. Halleck, was concerned that Confederate reinforcements would try to retake the two forts when the Union troops moved overland toward Fort Donelson, so Wallace was left in command at Fort Henry to keep the forts secure. Displeased to have been left behind, Wallace prepared his troops to move out at a moment's notice. The order came at midnight on February 13. Wallace arrived along the Cumberland River the following day and was placed in charge of the 3rd Division. Many of the men in the division were untested reinforcements. Wallace's three brigades took up position in the center of the Union line, facing Fort Donelson.\n\nDuring the fierce Confederate assault on February 15, and in Grant's absence from the battlefield, Wallace acted on his own initiative to send Cruft's brigade to reinforce the beleaguered division of Brig. Gen. John A. McClernand, despite orders from Grant to hold his position and prevent the enemy from escaping and without Grant's authority to take the offensive. With the Confederates continuing to advance, Wallace led a second brigade to the right and engaged the Confederates with infantry and artillery. Wallace's decision stopped their forward movement and was key in stabilizing a defensive line for the Union troops. After the Confederate assault had been checked, Wallace led a counterattack that regained the lost ground on the Union right. On March 21, 1862, Wallace, McClernand, and C. F. Smith were promoted to major general for their efforts. Wallace, who was age thirty-four at the time of his promotion, became the youngest major general in the Union army.\n\nWallace's most controversial command came at the battle of Shiloh, where he continued as the 3rd Division commander under Maj. Gen. Grant.\n\nWhat was to become a long-standing controversy developed around the contents of Wallace's written orders on April 6, the 3rd Division's movements on the first day of battle, and their late arrival on the field. On the second day of battle, Wallace's division joined reinforcements from Maj. Gen. Don Carlos Buell's army to play an important role in the Union victory. Prior to the battle, Wallace's division had been left in reserve and was encamped near Crump's Landing. Their orders were to guard the Union's right flank and cover the road to Bethel Station, Tennessee, where railroad lines led to Corinth, Mississippi, to the south. To protect the road from Crump's Landing and Bethel Station, Wallace sent Col. John M. Thayer's 2nd Brigade to Stoney Lonesome, west of Crump's Landing, and the 3rd Brigade, commanded by Col. Charles Whittlesey to Adamsville, west of Crump's Landing. Col. Morgan L. Smith's 1st Brigade remained with Wallace at Crump's Landing, north of Pittsburg Landing, Tennessee.\n\nBetween 5 and 6 a.m. on April 6, 1862, Grant's army at Pittsburg Landing was surprised and nearly routed by a sudden attack from the Confederate army under Gen. Albert Sidney Johnston. Grant, who heard the early morning artillery fire, took a steamboat from his headquarters at Savannah, Tennessee, to Crump's Landing, where he gave Wallace orders to wait in reserve and be ready to move. Grant proceeded to Pittsburg Landing, where he arrived around 8:30 a.m. Grant's new orders to Wallace, which arrived between 11 and 11:30 a.m., were given verbally to an aide, who transcribed them before they were delivered. The written orders were lost during the battle, so their exact wording cannot be confirmed; however, eyewitness accounts agree that Grant ordered Wallace to join the right side of the Union army, presumably in support of Brig. Gen. William Tecumseh Sherman's 5th Division, who were encamped near Shiloh Church on the morning of April 6.\n\nKnowledge of the area's roads played a critical role in Wallace's journey to the battlefield on April 6. In late March, after heavy rains made transportation difficult between Crump's Landing and Pittsburg Landing, Wallace's men had opened a route to Pittsburg Landing along Shunpike road, which connected to a road near Sherman's camp. Brig. Gen. W. H. L. Wallace's men at Pittsburg Landing opened the River Road (also known as the Hamburg-Savannah Road), a route farther east.\n\nOf the two main routes that Wallace could use to move his men to the front, he chose the Shunpike road, the more direct route to reach Sherman's division near Shiloh Church. The day before the battle, Wallace wrote a letter to a fellow officer, W. H. L. Wallace, stating his intention to do so. Lew Wallace and his staff maintained after the battle that Grant's order did not specify Pittsburg Landing as their destination, and it did not specify which route the 3rd Division was ordered to take. However, Grant claimed in his memoirs that he had ordered Wallace to take the route nearest to the river to reach Pittsburg Landing. Historians are divided, with some stating that Wallace's explanation is the most logical.\n\nAfter a second messenger from Grant arrived around noon with word to move out, Wallace's division of approximately 5,800 men began their march toward the battlefield. Between 2 and 2:30 p.m., a third messenger from Grant found Wallace along the Shunpike road, where he informed Wallace that Sherman had been forced back from Shiloh Church and was fighting closer to the river, near Pittsburg Landing. The Union army had been pushed back so far that Wallace was to the rear of the advancing Southern troops.\n\nWallace considered attacking the Confederates, but abandoned the idea. Instead he made a controversial decision to countermarch his troops along the Shunpike road, follow a crossroads to the River Road, and then move south to Pittsburg Landing. Rather than realigning his troops, so that the rear guard would be in the front, Wallace countermarched his column to maintain their original order, keeping his artillery in the lead position to support the Union infantry on the field After the time-consuming maneuver was completed, Wallace's troops returned to the midpoint on the Shunpike road, crossed east over a path to the River Road, and followed it south to join Grant's army on the field. Progress was slow due to the road conditions and countermarch. Wallace's division arrived at Pittsburg Landing about 6:30 p.m., after having marched about in nearly seven hours over roads that had been left in terrible conditions by recent rainstorms and previous Union marches. They gathered at the battlefield at dusk, about 7 p.m., with the fighting nearly over for the day, and took up a position on the right of the Union line.\nThe next day, April 7, Wallace's division held the extreme right of the Union line. Two of Wallace's batteries with the aid of a battery from the 1st Illinois Light Artillery were the first to attack at about 5:30 a.m. Sherman's and Wallace's troops helped force the Confederates to fall back, and by 3 p.m. the Confederates were retreating southwest, toward Corinth.\n\nAt first, the battle was viewed by the North as a victory; however, on April 23, after civilians began hearing news of the high number of casualties, the Lincoln administration asked the Union army for further explanation. Grant, who was accused of poor leadership at Shiloh, and his superior, Halleck, placed the blame on Wallace by asserting that his failure to follow orders and the delay in moving up the reserves on April 6 had nearly cost them the battle.\n\nGrant had placed much of the blame on General Wallace, whom he had sent verbal orders to bring his troops forward, accusing Wallace of failure in following those orders, which he believed resulted in the delay in moving up reserves, nearly costing the Union the loss of the battle. After hearing reports that Wallace refused to obey anything but \"written\" orders, an angry General Grant asserted that a division general ought to take his troops to wherever the firing may be, even without orders\", and first sent Colonel William R. Rowley, ordering him to \"tell him to come up at once\" and that \"if he should require a written order of you, you will give it to him at once\". When Rowley caught up to where Wallace's division last was, there was only a supply wagon departing the scene. Riding on further Rowley found Wallace at the head of his column near Clear Creek, positioned on high ground. Rowley pulled Wallace off to the side and warned him of the danger that lay just ahead, exclaiming, \"Don't you know that Sherman has been driven back? Why, the whole army is within half a mile of the river, and it's a question if we are not all going to be driven into it.\" Wallace, stunned by the news, sent his cavalry ahead to assess the situation, and upon returning, it had confirmed Rowley's claim.\n\nOn April 30, 1862, Halleck reorganized his army and removed Wallace and John McClernand from active duty, placing both of them in reserve.\n\nWallace's reputation and career as a military leader suffered a significant setback from controversy over Shiloh. He spent the remainder of his life trying to resolve the accusations and change public opinion about his role in the battle. On March 14, 1863, Wallace wrote a letter to Halleck that provided an official explanation of his actions. He also wrote Grant several letters and met with him in person more than once in an attempt to vindicate himself. On August 16, 1863, Wallace wrote Sherman for advice on the issue. Sherman urged Wallace to be patient and not to request a formal inquiry. Although Sherman brought Wallace's concerns to Grant's attention, Wallace was not given another active duty command until March 1864.\n\nFor many years Grant stood by his original version of the orders to Wallace. As late as 1884, when Grant wrote an article on Shiloh for \"The Century Magazine\" that appeared in its February 1885 issue, he maintained that Wallace had taken the wrong road on the first day of battle. After W. H. L. Wallace's widow gave Grant a letter that Lew Wallace had written to her the day before the battle (the one indicating his plans to use the Shunpike road to pass between Shiloh and his position west of Crump's Landing), Grant changed his mind. Grant wrote a letter to the editors at \"Century\", which was published in its September 1885 issue, and added a note to his memoirs to explain that Wallace's letter \"modifies very materially what I have said, and what has been said by others, about the conduct of General Lew Wallace at the battle of Shiloh.\" While reaffirming that he had ordered Wallace to take the River Road, Grant stated that he could not be sure the exact content of Wallace's written orders, since his verbal orders were given to one of his aides and transcribed.\n\nGrant's article in the February 1885 issue of \"Century\" became the basis of his chapter on Shiloh in his memoirs, which were published in 1886, and influenced many later accounts of Wallace's actions on the first day of battle. Grant acknowledged in his memoirs: \"If the position of our front had not changed, the road which Wallace took would have been somewhat shorter to our right than the River road.\" Wallace's account of the events appeared in his autobiography, which was published posthumously in 1906. Despite his later fame and fortune as the writer of \"Ben-Hur\", Wallace continued to lament, \"Shiloh and its slanders! Will the world ever acquit me of them? If I were guilty I would not feel them as keenly.\"\n\nOn August 17, 1862, Wallace accepted a regiment command in the Department of the Ohio to help with the successful defense of Cincinnati during Braxton Bragg's incursion into Kentucky. Next, Wallace took command of Camp Chase, a prisoner-of-war camp at Columbus, Ohio, where he remained until October 30, 1862. A month later Wallace was placed in charge of a five-member commission to investigate Maj. Gen. Don Carlos Buell's conduct in response to the Confederate invasion of Kentucky. The commission criticized Buell for his retreat, but it did not find him disloyal to the Union. When the commission's work was completed on May 6, 1863, Wallace returned to Indiana to wait for a new command. In mid-July 1863, while Wallace was home, he helped protect the railroad junction at North Vernon, Indiana, from Confederate general John Hunt Morgan's raid into southern Indiana.\n\nWallace's most notable service came on Saturday, July 9, 1864 at the Battle of Monocacy part of the Valley Campaigns of 1864. Although Confederate General Jubal A. Early and an estimated 15,000 troops defeated Wallace's troops at Monocacy Junction, Maryland, forcing them to retreat to Baltimore, the effort cost Early a chance to capture Washington, D.C. Wallace's men were able to delay the Confederate advance toward Washington for an entire day, giving the city time to organize its defenses. Early arrived in Washington at around noon on July 11, two days after defeating Wallace at Monocacy, the northernmost Confederate victory of the war, but Union reinforcements had already arrived at Fort Stevens to repel the Confederates and force their retreat to Virginia.\n\nWallace, who had returned to active duty on March 12, 1864, assumed command of VIII Corps, which was headquartered in Baltimore. On July 9, a combined Union force of approximately 5,800 men under Wallace's command (mostly hundred-days' men from VIII Corps) and a division under James B. Ricketts from VI Corps encountered Confederate troops at Monocacy Junction between 9 and 10 a.m. Although Wallace was uncertain whether Baltimore or Washington, D.C., was the Confederate objective, he knew his troops would have to delay the advance until Union reinforcements arrived. Wallace's men repelled the Confederate attacks for more than six hours before retreating to Baltimore.\n\nAfter the battle Wallace informed Halleck that his forces fought until 5 p.m., but the Confederate troops, which he estimated at 20,000 men, had overwhelmed them. When Grant learned of the defeat, he named Maj. Gen. E. O. C. Ord as Wallace's replacement in command of VIII Corps. On July 28, after officials learned how Wallace's efforts at Monocacy helped save Washington D.C. from capture, he was reinstated as commander of VIII Corps. In Grant's memoirs, he praised Wallace's delaying tactics at Monocacy:\n\nIf Early had been but one day earlier, he might have entered the capital before the arrival of the reinforcements I had sent. ... General Wallace contributed on this occasion by the defeat of the troops under him, a greater benefit to the cause than often falls to the lot of a commander of an equal force to render by means of a victory.\n\nOn January 22, 1865, Grant ordered Wallace to the Rio Grande in southern Texas to investigate Confederate military operations in the area. Although Wallace was not officially authorized to offer terms, he did discuss proposals for the surrender of the Confederate troops in the Trans-Mississippi Department. Wallace provided Grant with copies of his proposals and reported on the negotiations, but no agreement was made. Before returning to Baltimore, Wallace also met with Mexican military leaders to discuss the U.S. government's unofficial efforts to aid in expelling Maximilian's French occupation forces from Mexico.\n\nFollowing President Lincoln's death on April 15, 1865, Wallace was appointed to the military commission that investigated the Lincoln assassination conspirators. The commission, which began in May, was dissolved on June 30, 1865, after all eight conspirators were found guilty. In mid-August 1865, Wallace was appointed head of an eight-member military commission that investigated the conduct of Henry Wirz, the Confederate commandant in charge of the South's Andersonville prison camp. The court-martial which took nearly two months, opened on August 21, 1865. At its conclusion Wirz was found guilty and sentenced to death.\n\nOn April 30, 1865, Wallace had accepted an offer to become a major general in the Mexican army, but the agreement, which was contingent upon his resignation from the U.S. Army, was delayed by Wallace's service on the two military commissions. Wallace tendered his resignation from the U.S. Army on November 4, 1865, effective November 30, and returned to Mexico to assist the Mexican army. Although the Juárez government promised Wallace $100,000 for his services, he returned to the United States in 1867 in deep financial debt.\n\nWallace returned to Indiana in 1867 to practice law, but the profession did not appeal to him, and he turned to politics. Wallace made two unsuccessful bids for a seat in Congress (in 1868 and 1870), and supported Republican presidential candidate Rutherford B. Hayes in the 1876 election. As a reward for his political support, Hayes appointed Wallace as governor of the New Mexico Territory, where he served from August 1878 to March 1881. His next assignment came in March 1881, when Republican president James A. Garfield appointed Wallace to an overseas diplomatic post in Constantinople, Turkey, as U.S. Minister to the Ottoman Empire. Wallace remained in this post until 1885.\n\nWallace arrived in Santa Fe on September 29, 1878, to begin his service as governor of the New Mexico Territory during a time of lawless violence and political corruption. Wallace was involved in efforts to resolve New Mexico's Lincoln County War, a contentious and violent disagreement among the county's residents, and tried to end a series of Apache raids on territorial settlers. In 1880, while living at the Palace of the Governors in Santa Fe, Wallace also completed the manuscript for \"Ben Hur\".\n\nOn March 1, 1879, after previous efforts to restore order in Lincoln County had failed, Wallace ordered the arrest of those responsible for local killings. One of the outlaws was William Henry McCarty Jr. (alias William H. Bonney), better known as Billy the Kid. On March 17, 1879, Wallace secretly met with Bonney, who had witnessed the murder of a Lincoln County lawyer named Huston Chapman. Wallace wanted him to testify in the trial of Chapman's accused murderers, but Bonney wanted Wallace's protection from his enemies and amnesty for his earlier crimes. During their meeting, the pair arranged for Bonney to become an informant in exchange for a full pardon of his previous crimes. Wallace supposedly assured the Kid that he would be \"scot free with a pardon in your pocket for all your misdeeds.\" On March 20 Bonney agreed to provide grand jury testimony against those involved in Chapman's murder. Wallace arranged for a \"fake\" arrest and Bonney's detention in a local jail to assure his safety. Bonney testified in court on April 14, as agreed. However, the local district attorney revoked Wallace's bargain and refused to set the outlaw free. After spending several weeks in jail, Bonney escaped and returned to his criminal ways, which included killing additional men. He was shot and killed on July 14, 1881, by Sheriff Pat Garrett, who had been appointed by local ranching interests who had tired of his rustling their herds. In the meantime, Wallace had resigned from his duties as territorial governor on March 9, 1881, and was waiting for a new political appointment.\n\nOn December 31, 2010, on his last day in office, then-Governor Bill Richardson of New Mexico declined a pardon request from Bonney's supporters, citing a \"lack of conclusiveness and the historical ambiguity\" over Wallace's promise of amnesty. Descendants of Wallace and Garrett were among those who opposed the pardon.\n\nOn May 19, 1881, Wallace was appointed U.S. Minister to the Ottoman Empire in Constantinople (present-day Istanbul, Turkey). Wallace remained at the diplomatic post until 1885, and became a trusted friend of Sultan Abdul Hamid II. When a crisis developed between the Turkish and British governments over control of Egypt, Wallace served as an intermediary between the sultan and Lord Dufferin, the British ambassador. Although Wallace's efforts were unsuccessful, he earned respect for his efforts and a promotion in the U.S. diplomatic service.\n\nIn 1883, an editorial aimed at Wallace appeared in the newspaper \"Havatzelet\" (xiii. No. 6) titled \"An American and yet a Despot\". The editorial caused the Havatzelet to be suspended and its editor Israel Dov Frumkin to be imprisoned for forty-five days by order from Constantinople, directed to the pasha of the Mutasarrifate of Jerusalem. The incident that led to the editorial was the dismissal, made at Wallace's request, of Joseph Kriger, the Jewish secretary and interpreter to the pasha of Jerusalem. Wallace complained that Kriger had failed to receive him with the honor due to his rank, and refused to issue any apology for the alleged shortcoming. Havatzelet claimed that the proceeding was instigated by missionaries, whom Wallace strongly supported.\n\nIn addition to Wallace's diplomatic duties, which included protection of U.S. citizens and U.S. trade rights in the area, Wallace found time to travel and do historical research. Wallace visited Jerusalem and the surrounding area, the site for his novel, \"Ben-Hur\", and did research in Constantinople, the locale for \"The Prince of India; or, Why Constantinople Fell\", which he began writing in 1887.\n\nThe election of Grover Cleveland, the Democratic candidate for president, ended Wallace's political appointment. He resigned from the U.S. diplomatic service on March 4, 1885. The sultan wanted Wallace to continue to work in the Ottoman Empire, and even made a proposal to have him represent Ottoman interests in England or France, but Wallace declined and returned home to Crawfordsville.\n\nWallace confessed in his autobiography that he took up writing as a diversion from studying law. Although he wrote several books, Wallace is best known for his historical adventure story, \"\" (1880), which established his fame as an author.\n\nIn 1843, Wallace began writing his first novel, \"The Fair God\", but it was not published until 1873. The popular historical novel, with Cortez's conquest of Mexico as its central theme, was based on William H. Prescott's \"History of the Conquest of Mexico\". Wallace's book sold seven thousand copies in its first year. Its sales continued to rise after Wallace's reputation as an author was established with the publication of subsequent novels.\n\nWallace wrote the manuscript for \"Ben-Hur\", his second and best-known novel, during his spare time at Crawfordsville, and completed it in Santa Fe, while serving as the territorial governor of New Mexico. \"Ben-Hur\", an adventure story of revenge and redemption, is told from the perspective of a Jewish nobleman named Judah Ben-Hur. Because Wallace had not been to the Holy Land before writing the book, he began research to familiarize himself with the area's geography and its history at the Library of Congress in Washington, D.C., in 1873. Harper and Brothers published the book on November 12, 1880.\n\n\"Ben-Hur\" made Wallace a wealthy man and established his reputation as a famous author. Sales were slow at first; only 2,800 copies were sold in the first seven months after its release, but the book became popular among readers around the world. By 1886, it was earning Wallace about $11,000 in annual royalties (equivalent to $290,000 in 2015 dollars), and provided Wallace's family with financial security. By 1889, Harper and Brothers had sold 400,000 copies and the book had been translated into several languages.\n\nIn 1900, \"Ben-Hur\" became the best-selling American novel of the 19th century, surpassing Harriet Beecher Stowe's \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\". Amy Lifson, an editor for \"Humanities\", identified it as the most influential Christian book of the 19th century. Others named it one of the best-selling novels of all time. At the time of \"Ben-Hur\"'s one hundredth anniversary in 1980, it had \"never been out of print\" and had been adapted for the stage and several motion pictures. One historian, Victor Davis Hanson, has argued that \"Ben-Hur\" drew from Wallace's life, particularly his experiences at Shiloh, and the damage it did to his reputation. The book's main character, Judah Ben-Hur, accidentally causes injury to a high-ranking Roman commander, for which he and his family suffer tribulations and calumny.\n\nWallace wrote subsequent novels and biographies, but \"Ben-Hur\" remained his most important work. Wallace considered \"The Prince of India; or, Why Constantinople Fell\" (1893) as his best novel. He also wrote a biography of President Benjamin Harrison, a fellow Hoosier and Civil War general, and \"The Wooing of Malkatoon\" (1898), a narrative poem. Wallace was writing his autobiography when he died in 1905. His wife Susan completed it with the assistance of Mary Hannah Krout, another author from Crawfordsville. It was published posthumously in 1906.\n\nWallace continued to write after his return from Turkey. He also patented several of his own inventions, built a seven-story apartment building in Indianapolis, The Blacherne, and drew up plans for a private study at his home in Crawfordsville. Wallace remained active in veterans groups, including writing a speech for the dedication of the battlefield at the Chickamauga.\n\nWallace's elaborate writing study, which he described as \"a pleasure-house for my soul\", served as his private retreat. Now called the General Lew Wallace Study and Museum, it was built between 1895 and 1898, adjacent to his residence in Crawfordsville, and set in an enclosed park. The study along with three and one-half acres of its grounds were designated a National Historic Landmark in 1976. The property is operated as a museum, open to the public. Wallace had a moat on two sides of the Study and stocked it so he could fish from the back porch and a landing. In winter, he would fire up the coal furnace in the Study basement and fish from the windows. He loved fishing so much he invented and patented a special traveler's fishing pole. After just a few years he had the moat drained as it was negatively affecting the Study foundation and he worried about his grandchildren and neighborhood children falling into the water.\n\nOn April 5, 1898, at the outbreak of the Spanish–American War, Wallace, at age seventy-one, offered to raise and lead a force of soldiers, but the war office refused. Undeterred, he went to a local recruiting office and attempted to enlist as a private, but was rejected again, presumably because of his age.\n\nWallace's service at the battle of Shiloh continued to haunt him in later life. The debate persisted in book publications, magazine articles, pamphlets, speeches, and in private correspondence. Wallace attended a reunion at Shiloh in 1894, his first return since 1862, and retraced his journey to the battlefield with veterans from the 3rd Division. He returned to Shiloh for a final time in 1901 to walk the battlefield with David W. Reed, the Shiloh Battlefield Commission's historian, and others. Wallace died before the manuscript of his memoirs was fully completed, and it is unknown whether he would have revised his final account of the battle.\n\nWallace died at home in Crawfordsville, on February 15, 1905, of atrophic gastritis. He was seventy-seven years old. Wallace is buried in Crawfordsville Oak Hill Cemetery.\n\nWallace was a man of many interests and a lifelong adventure seeker, who remained a persistent, self-confident man of action. He was also impatient and highly sensitive to personal criticisms, especially those related to his command decisions at Shiloh. Despite Wallace's career in law and politics, combined with years of military and diplomatic service, he achieved his greatest fame as a novelist, most notably for his best-selling biblical tale, \"Ben-Hur\".\n\nFollowing Wallace's death, the State of Indiana commissioned sculptor Andrew O'Connor to create a marble statue of Wallace dressed in a military uniform for the National Statuary Hall Collection in the U.S. Capitol. The statue was unveiled during a ceremony held on January 11, 1910. Wallace is the only novelist honored in the hall. A bronze copy of the statue is installed on the grounds of Wallace's study in Crawfordsville.\n\nLew Wallace High School opened in 1926 at 415 West 45th Avenue in Gary, Indiana. On June 3, 2014, the Gary School Board voted 4 to 2 to close Lew Wallace, along with five other schools.\n\nNASL Indianapolis based team The Indy Eleven pays homage to the 11th Regiment of Indiana Volunteers, which fought for the Union Army during the Civil War. The inspiration for the name came from Donna Schmink, the Collection Manager at the Indiana War Museum, who, when asked by team officials for ideas on a team name connected to Indiana history, suggested \"the Eleventh\" in honor of the regiment that valiantly fought under the initial direction of Colonel Lew Wallace. They use Wallace's image on various merchandise.\n\nFiction\n\nNon-Fiction\n\n\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "4660380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4660380", "title": "List of Serb countries and regions", "text": "List of Serb countries and regions\n\nThe term Serbian lands has been used for medieval Serbian state creations, for Serb-inhabited territories in the Ottoman period and in political-geopraphical use since the independence of Serbia and Montenegro. During the Yugoslav wars it was used for the ethnic unification of Serbs through union of Serbia, Montenegro, Republic of Srpska and Republic of Srpska Krajina.\n\nThe \"medieval Serbian lands\" included Serbian tribes, polities and monarchies, such as Raška, Serbian Empire, etc.\n\nRoots of the Greater Serbian ideology are often traced back to Serbian minister Ilija Garašanin's \"Načertanije\" (1844), who envisioned a reconstruction of the Serbian Empire and unification of \"Serbian lands\", which included Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, northern Albania, parts of Dalmatia and the Habsburg Military Frontier.\n\nIn 1857, while traveling across \"Ancient Serbia\", Alexander Hilferding (1831-1872), a Russian Slavist and travel writer of German origin, wrote: \"\"an Orthodox Serb, wherever he might live – in Bosnia, Herzegovina, Dalmatia, Hungary, Principality of Serbia – has, besides a church, one great homeland, Serbian land, which is, to tell the truth, divided among many masters, but it exists as an ideal, as the land of the unified Orthodox Serbian nation. He has his own oral tradition, folklore; he knows about Serbian Saint Sava, Serbian Emperor Dušan, Serbian martyr Lazar, popular hero Prince Marko. His current life rests upon the foundations of his nation and it is permeated with the previous historical life of the nation\".\"\n\nThe term was used by political theorist Dobrica Ćosić for the ethnic unification of Serbs through union of Serbia, Montenegro, Republika Srpska and Republic of Srpska Krajina during the Yugoslav wars (1991–95).\n\n\nThis is the list of the current states and regions where Serbs are in absolute or relative ethnic majority, are one of the constitutional or recognized peoples or Serbian language is official:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28001620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28001620", "title": "List of people who have appeared on Australian currency", "text": "List of people who have appeared on Australian currency\n\nThis is a list of people who have appeared on currency issued by Australia since that country introduced its own notes and coins in 1910. \n\nThose appearing on the current series are shown in bold.\n\nLegend:\n"}
{"id": "3167476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3167476", "title": "Maillot", "text": "Maillot\n\nThe maillot ( IPA: British /mʌɪˈəʊ/, U.S. /maɪˈ(j)oʊ/) is the fashion designer's name for a woman's one-piece swimsuit, also called a tank suit. A maillot swimsuit generally consists of a tank-style torso top with high-cut legs. However, a maillot may also include a plunging neckline, turtleneck-style top, or revealing cutouts.\n\nIn addition to describing women’s one-piece swimsuits, the word maillot has also been used to refer to tights or leotards made of stretchable, jersey fabric, generally used for dance or gymnastics. The term maillot was first used to describe tight-fitting, one-piece swimsuits in the 1920s, as these swimsuits had been manufactured from a similar stretchable, jersey fabric.\n\nIn the present day, the phrase one-piece swimsuit has almost completely replaced the term maillot in colloquial language. While the word has now become somewhat obsolete in common language, fashion designers and consumers used it quite often in the early days of the modern swimsuit. It is now most often used to distinguish between several different types of one-piece swimsuits, including the tank maillot and the pretzel maillot. The term is also used in bicycle racing. For example, the leader of the Tour de France wears the \"maillot jaune\", referring to the yellow jersey that the overall race leader is awarded after each leg of the race.\n\nThe term maillot was inducted into the English dictionary in 1928; it derived from the French phrase for swaddling clothes. In the French language, the word maillot means \"shirt\" and is used to distinguish leaders in the Tour de France. The modern French term for a swimsuit, maillot de bain, also makes use of the word. The name \"tanksuit\" or \"tank suit\" (as well as \"tank top\") alludes to the \"tank\" or pool in which the wearer swims.\nIn colloquial Persian and Arabic, particularly in the Levant region, the term maillot (مايوه) is a generic term used to refer to a swimsuit for both men and women.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43929577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43929577", "title": "María Ugarte", "text": "María Ugarte\n\nMaría Ugarte España (22 February 1914, Segovia, Spain – 4 March 2011, Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic) was a Spanish-Dominican journalist, writer, academician, historian and palaeographer. Ugarte was the first woman who worked as a journalist in the Dominican Republic, and also the first woman to become a member of the Dominican Academy of History.\n\nMaría Ugarte was born in Segovia, Old Castile, Spain, to Comdt. Jerónimo de Ugarte Roure, a Basque soldier who became civil governor of Zamora in the second Republican biennium. She was a student of Antonio Machado and Ortega y Gasset, and classmate of Julián Marías.\n\nUgarte España obtained a degree in \"Philosophy and Literature\" (1935) at the Central University of Madrid (now Complutense University of Madrid), specializing in \"Historical Sciences\", and was assistant professor of the historian (1934–1936).\n\nAt the university she met Constantino Brusíloff (b. Constantin Alekseievich Brusiloff-Nigehorodzeff, Saint Petersburg, 1895 – Caracas, 1977), a Russian exile, veteran of the First World War (and later from the Spanish Civil War too). They married and had a daughter Carmen.\n\nThe political situation in the country with the outbreak of the civil war and the rise of Franco, forced them to fled into exile in the Dominican Republic, where they arrived on early February 1940. At first, Ugarte worked at the State Secretariat for Foreign Affairs; she also went on to teach the Spanish language to the refugees of the World War II in Sosúa, in northern Dominican Republic.\n\nBetween June and November 1943 she taught at the University of Santo Domingo the first course of Archival Science that was ever held at the Dominican Republic. She made the first Bulletin Index of the General Archive of the Nation, which was published in 1947. During the 1940s, Ugarte discovered a huge repertoire of colonial documents, among them, the \"Royal Archives of Bayaguana\". By 1945, Brusíloff and Ugarte divorced and the former moved to Venezuela.\n\nOn April 1948, Ugarte started her career as journalist in the newspaper \"El Caribe\", invited by its managing editor, Mr. Rafael Herrera; at \"El Caribe\" she was assistant editor, director of the cultural supplement (1963–1998), and director of Supplements and worked in there until she retired, in 2000. In 1950, she married with separate property to the cattleman José Antonio Jiménez Álvarez.\n\n"}
{"id": "1337571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1337571", "title": "National Historic Preservation Act of 1966", "text": "National Historic Preservation Act of 1966\n\nThe National Historic Preservation Act (NHPA; Public Law 89-665; 54 U.S.C. 300101 \"et seq.\") is legislation intended to preserve historical and archaeological sites in the United States of America. The act created the National Register of Historic Places, the list of National Historic Landmarks, and the State Historic Preservation Offices.\n\nSenate Bill 3035, the National Historic Preservation Act, was signed into law on October 15, 1966, and is the most far-reaching preservation legislation ever enacted in the United States. Several amendments have been made since. Among other things, the act requires federal agencies to evaluate the impact of all federally funded or permitted projects on historic properties (buildings, archaeological sites, etc.) through a process known as \"Section 106 Review\".\n\nPrior to the 1960s, \"historic preservation was,\" according to a 2015 column in \"The Washington Post\", \"neither a public policy issue nor part of America's architectural, planning and real estate development culture. Historic-preservation laws didn't exist.\" Although there was no national policy regarding preservation until 1966, efforts in the 19th century initiated the journey towards legislation. One of the earliest efforts of the preservation movement occurred around the 1850s when George Washington's home, Mount Vernon, was in shambles. His nephew attempted to sell it to the federal government for $200,000, but no one bought it. To prevent further destruction or conversion to a resort, Ann Pamela Cunningham created the Mount Vernon Ladies' Association to fight for this house. After establishing the first group promoting preservation efforts, they raised the money to acquire the property and protect it from ruin. Due to their efforts, not only does this house stand to represent the nation and the birth of independence, but it also, \"served as a blueprint for later organizations.\"\n\nIn 1906, an act was passed on the behalf of the nation's history and land. President Teddy Roosevelt signed the Antiquities Act that \"prohibited the excavation of antiquities from public lands without a permit from the Secretary of Interior.\" It also gave the president authority to declare a specific piece of land a national monument, therefore protecting it from scavengers and proclaiming national identity.\n\nIn 1916, the Department of the Interior established a new entity known as the National Park Service, the nation's first agency to regulate and manage public space, including the national monuments. \"Over the past fifty years the NPS has acquired more than of land, including not only the great chain of parks preserved for their natural beauty and value, but an extraordinary variety of historic buildings, monuments, and sites.\"\n\nBy 1935, Congress formed the Historic Sites Act that established a national policy for preservation and permitted the Secretary of Interior to create programs on behalf of preservation efforts. Historic American Buildings Survey (HABS), one of the established programs, provided jobs for unemployed architects, engineers, and surveyors during the Great Depression era. They were charged with surveying, recording, documenting, and interpreting historic properties. The Historic Sites Act also organized the national parks under the National Park Service, which created the foundation for the future development of National Register of Historic Places. Although the Antiquities Act and Historic Sites Act were major stepping stones for the preservation movement, it did not create a public \"national awareness.\"\n\nOn October 26, 1949, President Harry Truman signed legislation creating the National Trust for Historic Preservation \"to facilitate public participation in the preservation of sites, buildings, and objects of national significance or international interest.\" In addition, the law enforced public participation in preserving and protecting the sites, buildings, objects of national significance in American history.\" Initially, the National Trust for Historic Preservation did not provide funds for preservation projects. Today, they offer funds for planning and education and provide a plethora of information, techniques, and methods to assist people in carrying out preservation efforts locally.\n\nIn 1956, President Dwight D. Eisenhower signed the Federal Aid Highway Act of 1956 into law which established the Interstate Highway System, providing an easy and efficient way for troops to depart if under attack. Due to this new construction, many historic properties were destroyed. In the 1960s, President John F. Kennedy launched the Urban Renewal Program. Hoping the plan would rejuvenate the cities, it in fact increased the destruction in the downtown areas. The increase in population around this time, as well, and the manufacturing of cars called for a rapid change, therefore hindering our nation and its culture. \"With the urbanization, tear downs, and rebuilding America ... it is destroying the physical evidence of the past.\" During the 1950s and 1960s, people saw the negative changes in their cities and developed a concern for their \"quality of life that reflected their identity.\"\n\nAs a response to the nationwide destruction brought about by federally initiated programs, a report coordinated by Lady Bird Johnson analyzed the country and the effects of urban renewal. \"With Heritage So Rich\", an accumulation of essays, wrote \"an expansive inventory of properties reflecting the nation's heritage, a mechanism to protect those properties from unnecessary harm caused by federal activities, a program of financial incentives, and an independent federal preservation body to coordinate the actions of federal agencies affecting historic preservation.\" The book triggered public awareness of the issue and offered a proposition to handle the situation through the National Historic Preservation Act.\n\nThe National Historic Preservation Act was signed into law by Lyndon B. Johnson on October 15, 1966. This act established several institutions: Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, State Historic Preservation Office, National Register of Historic Places, and the Section 106 review process. The Section 106 Process is further explained and defined in 36 CFR Part 800.\n\nMeeting four times a year, the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation consists of 23 members from both public and private sectors, with the chairman appointed by the president. The Council's role is to advise the President and Congress on historic preservation issues, to develop policies and guidelines handling any conflicts of federal agencies, and to participate in the Section 106 review process.\n\nThe National Register of Historic Places, overseen by the National Park Service, is the nation's official list of districts, sites, buildings, structures, and objects worthy of preservation, and are officially designated \"historic properties\" regardless of whether they are archaeological or historic. To be eligible for listing, a property must meet one of four criteria and have sufficient integrity. Being listed on or eligible for listing on the National Register does not automatically prevent damage or destruction but it qualifies these approved properties for grants, loans, and tax incentives.\n\nThe State Historic Preservation Office (SHPO) and Officer was established by the NHPA to coordinate statewide inventory of historic properties, nominate properties to the National Register, maintain a statewide preservation plan, assist others, and advise and educate locals. There are a total of 59 SHPO officers, one for each state with eight additional ones, which include the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and others.\n\nSection 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act mandates federal agencies undergo a review process for all federally funded and permitted projects that will impact sites listed on, or eligible for listing on, the National Register of Historic Places. Specifically it requires the federal agency to \"take into account\" the effect a project may have on historic properties. It allows interested parties an opportunity to comment on the potential impact projects may have on significant archaeological or historic sites. The main purpose for the establishment of the Section 106 review process is to minimize potential harm and damage to historic properties.\n\nAny federal agency whose project, funding or permit may affect a historic property, both those listed or eligible for inclusion in the National Register of Historic Places, must consider the effects on historic properties and \"seek ways to avoid, minimize or mitigate\" any adverse effects on historic properties. The typical Section 106 Review involves four primary steps: 1 - Initiation of the Section 106 Review; 2 - Identification of Historic Properties; 3 - Assessment of Adverse Effects; and 4 - Resolution of Adverse Effects. Further steps may be required if there is a disagreement among the consulting parties on adverse effects or the resolution of the effects.\n\nThe federal agency overseeing the project inventories the project area (or contracts with a qualified consultant) to determine the presence or absence of historic properties. They then submit to the SHPO a Determination of Effect/Finding of Effect (DOE/FOE) outlining to the SHPO the project, the efforts taken identify historic properties, and what effects, if any, the project may have on historic properties. If the project is believed to have no adverse effect on eligible historic resources and the SHPO and other consulting parties agree, then the Section 106 process is effectively closed and the project may proceed. Alternatively, if an adverse effect is expected, the agency is required to work with the local State Historic Preservation Office to ensure that all interested parties are given an opportunity to review the proposed work and provide comments. This step seeks ways for the project to avoid having an adverse effect on historic properties. Ideally, a Memorandum of Agreement is reached between all consulting parties outlining agreed to mitigation or avoidance of historic properties, but this is not always the case. Without this process historical properties would lose a significant protection. This process helps decide different approaches and solutions to the project, but does not prevent any site from demolition or alteration.\n\nEarly preservation efforts were driven by patriotism and a desire to protect the new establishment of the nation by wealthy, private individuals. Early efforts focused primarily on individual structures as opposed to areas such as a neighborhood in a city or a rural landscape. The preserved structures were often turned into museums to create a showcase and generate tourism. The focus of preservation eventually shifted from patriotism to the aesthetics of a structure or area and ultimately to their structural relationships with society at large. According to Robin Elizabeth Datel, modern motivations for preservation can be summed up in four points: \nThe economic benefits of preservation continue to become more important and better understood and documented. Preservation efforts produce the most number of jobs in the nation's economy and these jobs create new businesses and tourism, increase property values, and enhanced the quality of life in a community.\n\nThe National Historic Preservation Act has led to major changes in the employment trends in historic preservation fields. Archaeologists, historians, historic architects, and others have been employed in vast numbers in the field of cultural resource management. Cultural resource management is an umbrella term which encompasses archaeology, historic preservation and other disciplines when employed for the purposes of compliance with NHPA and other federal and state-mandated historic preservation laws.\n\nPrior to the passage and subsequent enforcement (through litigation) of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 and other laws, most archaeologists, historians, and other historic preservation specialists were employed primarily in the field of academia, working at universities or other places of higher learning. However, since the passage of the NHPA, ever-increasing numbers of these professionals are employed in support of the cultural resources management industry. Large public works projects often require that teams of archaeologists perform limited excavations in order to properly inventory buried archaeological remains and assess their eligibility for the National Register of Historic Places. This industry has also allowed a larger swath of individuals to participate in archaeology and history as, unlike in the academic arena, a PhD is not required to earn a professional livelihood.\n\nThe Secretary of the Interior's Professional Qualification Standards for archeologists require a graduate degree plus at least one year of full-time experience, at least four months of fieldwork, and demonstrated ability to carry research to completion. Additionally, the basic field work often required in support of performing inventories of cultural resources is conducted by individuals with or earning bachelor's degrees. As a result, many undergraduates and recent graduates in the fields which support the implementation of the National Historic Preservation Act have found gainful employment. In the past, they stood little chance of earning a living in these fields without an advanced degree. However, Cultural Resource Management (CRM) is still one of the lowest paying fields for educated professionals.\n\n"}
{"id": "5089277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5089277", "title": "National Reconstruction Bureau", "text": "National Reconstruction Bureau\n\nThe National Reconstruction Bureau (reporting name: NRB) of Pakistan was an independent and constitutionally established federal institution tasked with economic recovery and prosperous development through the local government system. It was dissolved in May 2011.\n\nThe NRB formulated public policy matters for the development of local economic independence, local government system evaluation and generate fundamental thought on promoting good governance to strengthen democracy through the reconstruction of institutions of state related to all aspects of governance and social welfare.\n\nCodified under the Article 89(1) (this is wrongly expressed as the Article 89(1) is for promulgation of Ordinance by the President of Pakistan, therefore it does not allow for notification of National Reconstruction Bureau, kindly correct the matter, by the Constitution of Pakistan, the institute was chaired by the Chairman and directly reports to the Prime Minister of Pakistan on yearly basis. Established on 18 November 1999, its primary mission is to formulate public-level national policy for the nationwide reconstruction, economic development and recovery all over the nation. As of present, the institution is currently chaired by Dr. Asim Hussain as its appointed and designated chairman of the NRB. This Organization is now stands defunct by the Government of Pakistan and merged with Prime Minister's Secretariat as Policy Implementation Wing.\n\nDuring the 1980-1990s, the country had seen a rapid rise of the illegal immigration from Afghanistan, Eastern Europe, Iran, Bangladesh, Burma, and other countries. The outcomes of the civil war in Afghanistan had damaged the planned cities of the FATA region in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa Province. The war torn areas in Western Pakistan, the unplanned and illegal housing caused major disturbances in planned traffic systems and cities. In 1999, President Pervez Musharraf took the recommendation from Pakistan Army and his government to established the National Reconstruction Bureau (NRB) for quick economic recovery and development in war-torn areas.\n\nThe proposal was pushed forward by Pakistan Army when Lieutenant-General Tanveer Naqvi presented the plan at the cabinet-level meeting in Islamabad. General Naqvi suggested to President Musharraf that the \"Police should be under the control of district mayors who would be an elected person and accountable before the district assembly.\" However, Interior Minister Lieutenant-General Moinuddin Haider objected the plan and differed with him as he insisted to the proposal that the proposed police safety commission which would also have public representation.\n\nThe massive commutative political alliance, ARD, led by Benazir Bhutto rejected the whole plan, as she termed it as \"not workable\". Its senior leader, Nasrullah Khan took punitive approach, pressing for quick elections, revival of assemblies rather than an acceleration in economic rehabilitation, demanding unconditional fulfillment of all prior reparation claims, and pressing for progress toward nationwide socioeconomic transformation. The ARD noted that devolution plan, given by the National Reconstruction Bureau (NRB), was \"neither workable nor practically possible\". The ARD demanded that any restructuring of the system should be left to the elected representatives. The ARD alliance was divided when half of the political parties rejected the NRB plan for reconstruction while other half showed its support to NRB and admitted that the \"new system is better than the one which had been given by the National Reconstruction Bureau.\"\n\nOn 6 August 2000, over three dozen parties which took part in the all-party conference had rejected the NRB plan. While other three dozen parties marked the NRB's proposal as \"it was better was \"practicable.\" Meanwhile, President Musharraf reconcile the matter between Interior ministry and NRB at the high level meeting over the economic recovery plans.\n\nThe Bureau was established on 18 November 1999 with the mission to formulate policy for national reconstruction. It is a focal organisation to generate fundamental thoughts on promoting good governance to strengthen democracy through reconstruction of institutions of State. The National Reconstruction Bureau formulated recommendations for reconstruction of Local Governments and the Police. Local Government Ordinance, 2001 was promulgated by the provincial governments in August, 2001. The Police Order, 2002 was promulgated on 14 August 2002 which replaced the Police Act, 1861. The Devolution Plan and Local Government Ordinances brought about a wholesale transformation in Pakistan's system of government, especially at the local level. Divisions were abolished, and instead a three-tier local government structure comprising three categories of local government - districts, tehsils and unions - was brought in.\n\nThis meant the decentralization of many functions previously handled by the provincial governments to the districts and tehsils. Alongside administrative and political decentralization, provisions have been made for transfer of funds to the local governments so they can carry out their planning and development functions effectively.\n\nThe National Reconstruction Bureau was dissolved by the government in May 2011.\n"}
{"id": "22696156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22696156", "title": "Nevis Historical and Conservation Society", "text": "Nevis Historical and Conservation Society\n\nThe Nevis Historical and Conservation Society (NHCS) is a nonprofit non-governmental organisation (NGO) based in the Caribbean island of Nevis, founded in 1980 to protect the cultural and natural heritage of the island.\n\nThe NHCS, founded in 1980, is charged with protecting the cultural and natural heritage of the island of Nevis, which is part of the Federation of St. Kitts and Nevis, in the Leeward Islands, West Indies. The stated mission of the society is \"to conserve the natural, cultural and historic fabric of the Island of Nevis and her surrounding sea for all its people.\"\n\nThe organization is funded through local and international memberships, donations, museum admissions and sales, annual fundraising events, and an endowment fund. On May 2, 2012, the Nevis Island Assembly unanimously enacted an ordinance to establish a Heritage Trust in support of the organization. However, it was later discovered that in its original legislative form, the ordinance would have deprived the trust of its NGO status, resulting in a \"stalemate\" on implementation of the trust.\n\nThe NHCS maintains two museums on the island, and has instituted projects and policies designed to preserve the island's unique history and environment, and to make that heritage accessible and intelligible to locals and visitors.\nThe Alexander Hamilton Museum is located in the Hamilton House, on the waterfront near the center of Charlestown, the capital of Nevis. Hamilton House is a Georgian building, rebuilt and restored from the ruins of the house where the American statesman Alexander Hamilton is believed to have been born and to have lived during his childhood. The museum features a presentation about his life and times.\n\nThe upper floor of Hamilton House hosts the Nevis Island Government's Legislative Offices, the Nevis Island Assembly.\n\nTogether with the Trott House next door, which was acquired by the society in 2011, the two buildings and their immediate surroundings are known as the Nevis Heritage Centre.\n\nThe NHCS also maintains the Museum of Nevis History, formerly known as the Nelson Museum, located to the southeast of Charlestown at Bellevue. The facility houses the Nevis Island Archives of historical records.\n\nThis museum features the Horatio Nelson Collection, an extensive collection of Nelson memorabilia. When Admiral Nelson was a young sea captain, he was stationed on Nevis during the mid-1780s. In 1787, Nelson married a young widow who was a Nevis plantation owner's daughter-in-law, Frances (Fanny) Nesbit.\n\nThe Bellevue facility also houses the Joan Robinson Biodiversity and Oral History Resource Centre, which was opened on April 22, 2009, and which currently consists of two laboratories. One is dedicated to recording and preserving the flora and fauna of Nevis and the other is a video editing suite, which is designed to preserve the oral history of the island by digitally recording the oldest people on the island, to preserve their memories of life on Nevis during the early parts of the 20th century.\nThe Biodiversity and Oral History Projects are jointly funded by The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), the Canada Fund for Local Initiatives (CIDA), the British High Commission (Barbados); and The Strabon Project (French Embassy, Saint Lucia). \nAmong the notable aspects of these two projects is that local high school students perform most of the work. During the process they learn technical and scientific skills from NHCS staff and other experts in a wide variety of disciplines, including but not limited to, archaeology, marine and terrestrial biology, botany, GPS/GIS mapping and surveying techniques, still and video photography, website design and maintenance, video editing and production, and desktop publishing.\n\nThe society publishes a quarterly newsletter, \"The Gathering\", which details its current and ongoing projects.\n\nIn 1989, the NHCS published \"The Birds of Nevis\", a 56-page booklet written by Paul Hilder. The list of species included in that publication has since been expanded and updated.\n\nIn 2000, the society published a 69-page book entitled \"The Natural History of the Island of Nevis\", edited by David Robinson and Jennifer Lowery, which included contributions such as a chapter on the island's freshwater invertebrates by biologist T. David Bass.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51432859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51432859", "title": "Origin of the Székelys", "text": "Origin of the Székelys\n\nScholarly theories about the origin of the Székelys (a subgroup of the Hungarian people) can be divided into four main groups. Medieval chronicles unanimously stated that the Székelys were descended from the Huns and settled in the Carpathian Basin centuries before the Hungarians (or Magyars) conquered the territory in the late 9th century. This theory is refuted by most modern specialists. According to a widely accepted modern hypothesis, the Székelys were originally a Turkic people who joined the Magyars in the Pontic steppes. Other scholars say, the Székelys were descended from the border guards of the Kingdom of Hungary who settled in the easternmost region of the Carpathian Basin and preserved their special privileges for centuries. According to a fourth theory, the Székelys' origin can be traced back to the Late Avar population of the Carpathian Basin.\n\nMedieval chronicles associated the Székelys with the Huns, also claiming that both the Huns and the Hungarians were descended from the Scythians. Medieval scholars also agreed that the Székelys had already been present in the Carpathian Basin before the Hungarians (or Magyars) conquered the territory. The early 13th-century \"Gesta Hungarorum\" was the first to mention that the Székelys \"were previously the peoples\" of Attila the Hun. According to the same source, the Székelys \"gave their sons as hostages along with diverse gifts\" to the Hungarian chieftain, Ősbő, at the Körös River before joining his campaign against Menumorut.\n\nSimon of Kéza stated that the Székelys were \"remnants of the Huns\" who \"remained on the field of Csigla\" after the fall of the Hunnic Empire. In contrast with the \"Gesta Hungarorum\", Kéza said, the Székelys joined the Hungarians \"on the borders of Ruthenia\" when the Hungarians crossed the Carpathian Mountains. All subsequent Hungarian chronicles repeated Kéza's story and most scholars accepted the identification of the Székelys with the Huns for centuries. The theory was also mentioned in István Werbőczy's \"Tripartitum\", which was published several times in Székely Land after 1517. As a consequence, it cannot be decided whether the Székelys' well-documented own tradition of their Hunnic origin is a genuine part of their folklore, or it is only an adoption of a medieval scholarly fabrication. Most Székelys still regard themselves as descendants of the Huns, but the majority of modern scholars refute this theory.\n\nThe linguist Pál Hunfalvy was the first scholar to question the association of the Székelys with the Huns in the 1870s. However, scholars have not reached a consensus about the origin of the Székelys. The modern theories can be divided into three major groups.\n\nMedieval chronicles evidence that the Székelys were regarded as a distinct ethnic group which had settled in the Carpathian Basin before the Hungarians. Some scholars (especially Gyula László and Pál Engel) say that the Székelys are the direct descendants of the \"Late Avar\" population of the region. The \"Late Avar\" period started around 700 A.D., and lasted for about a century. Artifacts (mostly buckles and strap ends) decorated with floral patterns and griffins are the most featured items of the assemblages for this period. László and Engel attribute this new archaeological horizon to a group of Onogurs who had fled from the Pontic steppes to the West after the Khazars destroyed their empire around 680. According to most scholars, the Onogurs spoke a Turkic language, but László proposed that they were a Hungarian-speaking group. A charter of Louis the German, King of East Francia, mentioned the \"Wangariorum marcas\" (\"Wangars' frontier\") around 860, implying that Onogurs still lived in the westernmost region of the Carpathian Basin in the second half of the 9th century. Most scholars refute the association of the Székelys with the \"Late Avars\" or Onogurs.\n\nThe Székelys speak the Hungarian language \"without any trace of a Turkic substratum\", indicating that they did not have a language shift during their history, according to scholars, who propose that the Székelys were descended from privileged Hungarian groups. Most place names in Székely Land are of Hungarian origin, showing that the Székelys spoke Hungarian when they settled in the region. The three main Hungarian dialects of Székely Land are closely connected to the Hungarian variants spoken along the western and southwestern borders of the medieval Kingdom of Hungary. The dialect of the Székelys of Marosszék is similar to the dialects spoken by the Hungarian communities near Pressburg (now Bratislava in Slovakia) and in southern Burgenland. The Hungarian variant of Udvarhelyszék is closely related to the tongue of the Hungarians in Baranya County and Slavonia. The easternmost Székely communities' dialect is connected to the Hungarian variant of Burgenland.\n\nAccording to a widely accepted scholarly theory, the Székelys had originally been a Turkic people who joined the Magyars in the Pontic steppes (to the east of the Carpathian Basin). Written sources evidence, the Székelys were regarded a separate ethnic group in the Middle Ages. Simon of Kéza wrote of the \"Hungarian and Székely forces\" of Andrew II of Hungary; a charter of William, Bishop of Transylvania, distinguished the Hungarians and Székelys in 1213. The Székelys were listed along with other peoples in the Middle Ages, also indicating that they were considered an ethnic group. In 1250, a royal charter enumerated the Saxons, Vlachs, Székelys and Pechenegs when mentioning a campaign against Bulgaria; the 14th-century Hungarian chronicles wrote of Székelys and Pechenegs participating in the Battle of Olšava.\n\nHumanist scholar Petrus Ransanus was the first to propose an alternative theory about the origin of the Székelys. Based on the Latin \"Siculus\" form of their ethnonym, he said that Sicilian soldiers who allegedly fought in the army in Attila the Hun were the Székelys' ancestors. Jesuit friar Ferenc Fasching stated that the Székelys were descended from a Jasz group whom Béla IV of Hungary had supposedly settled in Transylvania. Nicolae Iorga proposed that the Székelys were originally Romanians, but he abandoned this theory.\n\n"}
{"id": "47382100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47382100", "title": "Osangangan Obamakin", "text": "Osangangan Obamakin\n\nOsangangan Obamakin was the 2nd Ooni of Ife, a paramount traditional ruler of Ile Ife, the ancestral home of the Yorubas. He succeeded Ooni Oduduwa and was succeeded by his son, Ooni Ogun.\n"}
{"id": "39684519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39684519", "title": "Outline of prehistoric technology", "text": "Outline of prehistoric technology\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to prehistoric technology.\n\nPrehistoric technology – technology that predates recorded history. History is the study of the past using written records; it is also the record itself. Anything prior to the first written accounts of history is prehistoric (meaning \"before history\"), including earlier technologies. About 2.5 million years before writing was developed, technology began with the earliest hominids who used stone tools, which they may have used to start fires, hunt, cut food, and bury their dead.\n\nPrehistoric technology can be described as:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe New World periods began with the crossing of the Paleo-Indians, Athabaskan, Aleuts, Inuit, and Yupik peoples along the Bering Land Bridge onto the North American continent. In their book, \"Method and Theory in American Archaeology,\" Gordon Willey and Philip Phillips defined five cultural stages for the Americas, including the three prehistoric Lithic, Archaic and Formative stages. The historic stages are the Classic and Post-Classic stages.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41168926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41168926", "title": "Paul Ginsborg", "text": "Paul Ginsborg\n\nPaul Ginsborg (born 1945) is a British historian. Professor in the 80's at the University of Siena, since 1992 he has been Professor of Contemporary European History at the University of Florence.\n\nHe studied at Queens' College, Cambridge (B.A. 1966), and was subsequently a Fellow of Churchill College, Cambridge.\n\nGinsborg is of Jewish parentage. Along with Carlo Ginzburg, Marcello Flores, Sergio Luzzatto, Claudio Pavone, Enzo Traverso, etc., he signed a call in January 2002 against a law project, presented by Justice Minister Clemente Mastella, which was to specifically penalize Holocaust denial. They argued that Italy's legislation was sufficient to cope with such acts. The amended law project finally restricted itself to reinforcing sentences concerning hate speech.\n\n"}
{"id": "13835140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13835140", "title": "People's Republic of Kampuchea", "text": "People's Republic of Kampuchea\n\nThe People's Republic of Kampuchea (PRK; , ; ) was founded in Cambodia by the Salvation Front, a group of Cambodian communists dissatisfied with the Khmer Rouge after the overthrow of Democratic Kampuchea, Pol Pot's government. Brought about by an invasion from the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, which routed the Khmer Rouge armies, it had Vietnam and the Soviet Union as its main allies.\n\nThe PRK failed to secure United Nations endorsement due to the diplomatic intervention of the People's Republic of China, the United Kingdom, the United States and the ASEAN countries. The Cambodian seat at the United Nations was held by the Coalition Government of Democratic Kampuchea, which was the Khmer Rouge in coalition with two non-communist guerrilla factions. However, the PRK was considered the \"de facto\" government of Cambodia between 1979 and 1993, albeit with limited international recognition.\n\nBeginning May 1989, the PRK restored the name Cambodia by renaming the country State of Cambodia (SOC) (, ) during the last four years of its existence in an attempt to attract international sympathy. However, it retained most of its leadership and one-party structure while undergoing a transition and eventually giving way to the restoration of the Kingdom of Cambodia. The PRK/SOC existed as a communist state from 1979 until 1991, the year in which the ruling single party abandoned its Marxist–Leninist ideology.\n\nUnder Vietnamese control, the PRK was established in the wake of the total destruction of the country's institutions, infrastructure and intelligentsia wreaked by Khmer Rouge rule.\n\nThe PRK was established in January 1979 as a result of a process that began with Khmer Rouge belligerence.\n\nInitially, communist North Vietnam was a strong ally of the Khmer Rouge while it was fighting against Lon Nol's Khmer Republic during the 1970–1975 civil war. Only after the Khmer Rouge took power things began to turn sour, when on 1 May 1975 (the day after Saigon fell), Khmer Rouge soldiers raided the islands of Phu Quoc and Tho Chau, killing more than five hundred Vietnamese civilians; following the attack, the islands were swiftly recaptured by Hanoi. Even then, the first reactions of the Vietnamese were ambiguous, and it took Vietnam a long time to react with force, for the first impulse was to arrange matters \"within the family sphere\".\n\nMassacres of ethnic Vietnamese and of their sympathisers, as well as destruction of Vietnamese Catholic churches, by the Khmer Rouge took place sporadically in Cambodia under the Democratic Kampuchea regime, especially in the Eastern Zone after May 1978. By early 1978 the Vietnamese leadership decided to support internal resistance to Pol Pot and the Eastern Zone of Cambodia became a focus of insurrection. In the meantime, as 1978 wore on, Khmer Rouge bellicosity in the border areas surpassed Hanoi's threshold of tolerance. War hysteria against Vietnam reached bizarre levels within Democratic Kampuchea as Pol Pot tried to distract attention from bloody inner purges. In May 1978, on the eve of So Phim's Eastern Zone uprising, Radio Phnom Penh declared that if each Cambodian soldier killed thirty Vietnamese, only 2 million troops would be needed to eliminate the entire Vietnamese population of 50 million. It appears that the leadership in Phnom Penh was seized with immense territorial ambitions, i.e., to recover Kampuchea Krom, the Mekong Delta region which they regarded as Khmer territory.\nIn November, pro-Vietnamese Khmer Rouge leader Vorn Vet led an unsuccessful coup d'état and was subsequently arrested, tortured and executed. Incidents escalated along all of Cambodia's borders. There were now tens of thousands of Cambodian and Vietnamese exiles on Vietnamese territory, and even so Hanoi's response was half-hearted.\n\nThe Kampuchean United Front for National Salvation (KUFNS or FUNSK) was an organisation that would be pivotal in overthrowing the Khmer Rouge and establishing the PRK/SOC state. The Salvation Front was a heterogeneous group of communist and non-communist exiles determined to fight against Pol Pot and rebuild Cambodia. Led by Heng Samrin and Pen Sovann, both Khmer Rouge defectors, in a zone liberated from the Khmer Rouge after the purge of the Eastern Zone, the front's foundation was announced by Radio Hanoi on 3 December 1978. Of the Salvation Front's fourteen central committee members, the top two leaders —Heng Samrin, president, and Joran Pollie, vice-president— had been \"former\" Kampuchean Communist Party (KCP) officials; others were former Khmer Issarak as well as \"Khmer Viet Minh\" members who had lived in exile in Vietnam. Ros Samay, secretary general of the KUFNS, was a former KCP \"staff assistant\" in a military unit.\n\nThe government of Democratic Kampuchea lost no time in denouncing the KUFNS, as \"a Vietnamese political organisation with a Khmer name,\" because several of its key members had been affiliated with the KCP.\nDespite being dependent on Vietnamese protection and the backing of the Soviet Union behind the scenes, the KUFNS had an immediate success among exiled Cambodians. This organisation provided a much-needed rallying point for Cambodian leftists opposed to Khmer Rouge rule, channelling efforts towards positive action instead of empty denunciations of the genocidal regime. The KUFNS provided as well a framework of legitimacy for the ensuing invasion of Democratic Kampuchea by Vietnam and the subsequent establishment of a pro-Hanoi regime in Phnom Penh.\n\nVietnamese policymakers finally opted for a military solution and, on 22 December 1978, Vietnam launched its offensive with the intent of overthrowing Democratic Kampuchea. An invasion force of 120,000, consisting of combined armour and infantry units with strong artillery support, drove west into the level countryside of Cambodia's southeastern provinces. After a seventeen-day blitzkrieg, Phnom Penh fell to the advancing Vietnamese on 7 January 1979. The retreating Armed Forces of Democratic Kampuchea (RAK) and Khmer Rouge cadres burned rice granaries, which, along with other causes, provoked a severe famine all over Cambodia beginning in the last half of 1979 and which lasted until mid-1980.\n\nOn 1 January 1979, the Salvation Front's central committee proclaimed a set of \"immediate policies\" to be applied in the areas liberated from the Khmer Rouge. First the communal kitchens were abolished and some Buddhist monks would be brought to every community to reassure the people. Another of these policies was to establish \"people's self-management committees\" in all localities. These committees would form the basic administrative structure for the Kampuchean People's Revolutionary Council (KPRC), decreed on 8 January 1979, as the central administrative body for the PRK. The KPRC served as the ruling body of the Heng Samrin regime until 27 June 1981, when a new Constitution required that it be replaced by a newly elected Council of Ministers. Pen Sovann became the new prime minister. He was assisted by three deputy prime ministers – Hun Sen, Chan Sy, and Chea Soth.\n\nOn 10 January 1979, the DK army had been routed and the Vietnamese troops had captured the capital Phnom Penh. The KPRC proclaimed that the new official name of Cambodia was the People's Republic of Kampuchea (PRK). The new administration was a pro-Soviet government supported by a substantial Vietnamese military force and civilian advisory effort.\n\nDespite the Vietnam-sponsored invasion and control, and the loss of independence that went along with it, the new order was welcomed by almost the entire Cambodian population due to the Khmer Rouge brutality. However, there was some plundering of the almost empty capital of Phnom Penh by Vietnamese forces, who carried the goods on trucks back to Vietnam. This unfortunate behaviour would in time contribute to create a negative image of the invaders.\nHeng Samrin was named head of state of the PRK, and other Khmer communists that had formed the Kampuchean People's Revolutionary Party, like Chan Sy and Hun Sen, were prominent from the start.\n\nAs events in the 1980s progressed, the main preoccupations of the new regime would be survival, restoring the economy, and combating the Khmer Rouge insurgency by military and political means.\n\nThe PRK was a communist state. It continued the socialist revolution that had been started by DK, but abandoning the Khmer Rouge's radical policies and channelling the efforts of building socialism through more pragmatic channels in line with the policies marked by the Soviet Union and the Comecon. Very soon it would be one of the six countries regarded as socialist, and not just developing, by the USSR.\n\nRegarding ethnic minorities, the People's Republic of Kampuchea was committed to respect Cambodia's national diversity, which brought some welcome relief to the ethnic Thai, Vietnamese, Cham and the \"montagnards\" of the northeast. The Chinese ethnic minority, however, perceived as an \"arm of the hegemonists\" continued to be oppressed, even though many of its members, mainly among the trader community, had endured great suffering under the Khmer Rouge. The speaking of Mandarin and Teochew was severely restricted, in much the same manner as under Pol Pot.\n\nOne of the main official acts of the PRK was a partial restoration of Buddhism as the state religion of Cambodia and temples were gradually reopened to accommodate the monks and to resume a certain measure of traditional religious life. In September 1979 seven old monks were officially reordained at Wat Unnalom in Phnom Penh and these monks gradually reestablished the Cambodian \"sangha\" between 1979 and 1981. They began rebuilding the community of monks in Phnom Penh and later in the provinces, reordaining prestigious monks who had been formerly senior monks. They were not allowed, however, to ordain young novices. Repair works were started in about 700 Buddhist temples and monasteries, of the roughly 3,600 that had been destroyed or badly damaged by the Khmer Rouge. By mid-1980 traditional Buddhist festivals began to be celebrated.\n\nThe DK had exterminated many Cambodian intellectuals, which was a difficult obstacle for Cambodia's reconstruction, when local leaders and experts were most needed. Among the surviving educated urban Cambodians who could have helped the struggling country to its feet, many opted to flee the Socialist state and flocked to the refugee camps to emigrate to the West.\n\nThe PRK's administration was technically unequipped and the state bureaucracy that had been destroyed by the Khmer Rouge was rebuilt slowly. The PRK managed to reopen the \"Ecole de formation des cadres administratifs et judiciels\", where in 1982 and 1986 training programmes were conducted. To rebuild the nation's intelligentsia, a number of Cambodians were sent to Eastern Bloc countries to study during the PRK's reconstruction period. Despite its efforts in the educational field, the PRK/SOC would struggle with the general lack of education and skills of Cambodian party cadres, bureaucrats and technicians throughout its existence.\n\nCambodian cultural life began also slowly to be rebuilt under the PRK. Movie houses in Phnom Penh were re-opened, screening at first films from Vietnam, the Soviet Union, Eastern European socialist countries and Hindi movies from India. Certain films that did not fit with the pro-Soviet designs of the PRK, such as Hong Kong action cinema, were banned in Cambodia at that time.\n\nThe domestic film industry had suffered a severe blow, for a large number of Cambodian filmmakers and actors from the 1960s and 1970s had been killed by the Khmer Rouge or had fled the country. Negatives and prints of many films had been destroyed, stolen, or missing and the films that did survive were in a poor state of quality. Cambodia's film industry began a slow comeback starting with \"Kon Aeuy Madai Ahp\" (), also known as \"Krasue mother\", a horror movie based on Khmer folklore about \"Ahp\", a popular local ghost which has the distinction of being the first movie made in Cambodia after the Khmer Rouge era.\nThe restoration of cultural life during the PRK was only partial though; there were socialist-minded restrictions hampering creativity that would only be lifted towards the end of the 1980s under the SOC.\n\nThe PRK relied heavily on propaganda to motivate Cambodians for reconstruction, to promote unity and to establish its rule. Large billboards were displayed with patriotic slogans and party members taught the eleven points of the Kampuchean National United Front for National Salvation (FUNSK) to assembled adults.\n\nSurvivors of Democratic Kampuchea rule lived in fear and uncertainty, lest the feared Khmer Rouge returned. Most Cambodians were psychologically affected and declared emphatically that they would not be able to survive another DK regime. The PRK government strongly encouraged such sentiments, for much of its legitimacy lay in having liberated Cambodia from Pol Pot's yoke. As a consequence, gruesome displays of skulls and bones, as well as photographs and paintings of Khmer Rouge atrocities, were set up and used as a pro-government propaganda tool. The most important museum about the Khmer Rouge era was located at the Tuol Sleng DK prison and was named \"Tuol Sleng Museum of Genocidal Crimes\", now Tuol Sleng Genocide Museum.\n\nThe annual Day of Remembrance, also known as \"Day of Hatred\" against the Khmer Rouge was instituted as part of the PRK's propaganda. Among the slogans chanted on the Day of Remembrance, one of the most often repeated was \"We must absolutely prevent the return of the former black darkness\" in Khmer.\n\nAt least 600,000 Cambodians had been displaced during the Pol Pot era when cities had been emptied. After the Vietnamese invasion freed them, most Cambodians who had been forcefully resettled elsewhere in the countryside returned to the cities or to their original rural homesteads. Since families had been disrupted and separated, many Cambodians freed from their communes wandered over the country searching for family members and friends.\n\nFollowing the invasion there were severe famine conditions in the country, with some estimates reaching 500,000.\n\nTraditional farming had been so severely interfered with that it took time to be established anew. Meanwhile, the Khmer Rouge commune system had completely collapsed, following which there were no jobs and not enough food to eat. It took six months to begin the gradual repopulation of Phnom Penh, as electricity, water and sewage systems were reestablished and street repair and removal of garbage were undertaken.\n\nThe destruction of Cambodian social institutions during the \"Year Zero\" period (1975–1979) had been thorough. It had left the PRK with little to start with, for there were no police, no schools, no books, no hospitals, no post and telecommunications, no legal system and no broadcasting networks, either for television or radio, whether state-owned or private.\n\nTo compound the situation for Cambodia, the Western nations, China and the ASEAN states refused to provide reconstruction assistance directly to the new regime. Owing to US and China's opposition to the international recognition of the PRK, the United Nations relief and rehabilitation agencies were not allowed to operate within Cambodia by the UN authorities. The little development help that was available came only from the Eastern Bloc nations; among these only the Socialist Republic of Romania would refuse assistance to the PRK.\nThe bulk of international help and aid from Western nations would be diverted to refugee camps along the Thai border.\n\nFaced with a destroyed country and lack of international aid, large numbers of distraught Cambodians flocked to the Thai border in the years that followed. There, international help provided by different international aid organisations, many of them backed by the United States, was available. At one point, more than 500,000 Cambodians were living along the Thai-Cambodian border and more than 100,000 in holding centres inside Thailand. More than $400 million was provided between 1979 and 1982, of which the United States, as part of its Cold War political strategy against communist Vietnam, contributed nearly $100 million. In 1982, the US government had initiated a covert aid program to the non-communist resistance (NCR) amounting to $5 million per year, ostensibly for non-lethal aid only. This amount was increased to $8 million in 1984 and $12 million in 1987 and 1988. In late 1988, the United States pared back Central Intelligence Agency funding to $8 million, following reports that $3.5 million had been diverted by the Thai military. At the same time, the Reagan Administration gave new flexibility to the funds, permitting the NCR to purchase US-made weapons in Singapore and other regional markets. In 1985, the United States established a separate, overt aid program to the non-communist resistance which came to be known as the Solarz Fund after one of its chief sponsors, Rep. Stephen Solarz. The overt aid program channelled about $5 million per year to the non-communist resistance through USAID.\n\nMeanwhile, a sizeable portion of Pol Pot's Khmer Rouge forces regrouped and received a continuous and abundant supply of military equipment from China, channelled across Thailand with the co-operation of the Royal Thai Armed Forces. Along with other armed factions, the Khmer Rouge launched a relentless military campaign against the newly established People's Republic of Kampuchea state from the refugee camps and from hidden military outposts along the Thai border. Even though the Khmer Rouge was dominant, the non-communist resistance included a number of groups which had formerly been fighting against the Khmer Rouge after 1975. These groups included Lon Nol-era soldiers —-coalesced in 1979-80 to form the Khmer People's National Liberation Armed Forces (KPNLAF)— which pledged loyalty to former Prime Minister Son Sann, and Moulinaka (Mouvement pour la Libération Nationale du Kampuchea), loyal to Prince Norodom Sihanouk. In 1979, Son Sann formed the Khmer People's National Liberation Front (KPNLF) to lead the political struggle for Cambodia's independence. Prince Sihanouk formed his own organisation, FUNCINPEC, and its military arm, the Armée Nationale Sihanoukienne (ANS) in 1981. Fraught with both internal and mutual discord, the non-communist groups opposing the PRK, were never very effective, so that all through the civil war against the KPRAF/CPAF the only seriously organised fighting force against the state was the former Khmer Rouge militia, ironically labelled as the \"Resistance\". This armed faction would wreak much havoc in Cambodia even after the restoration of the monarchy, well into the 1990s.\n\nThis protracted civil war would bleed Cambodia's energies throughout the 1980s. Vietnam's occupation army of as many as 200,000 troops controlled the major population centres and most of the countryside from 1979 to September 1989, but Heng Samrin's regime's 30,000 KPRAF troops were plagued by poor morale and widespread desertion owing to low pay and poverty. Men were directly needed in their family farms as they were being rebuilt and there was much work to do.\n\nDisoriented Cambodian refugees from refugee camps in Aranyaprathet, Thailand, were forcefully sent back across the border beginning in 1980 and many of them ended up in areas under Khmer Rouge control.\n\nThe process was organised by pro-Democratic Kampuchea cadres, but it was presented to the press as \"voluntary\". The undermining of the People's Republic of Kampuchea was supported by the United States government, who took a dim view of the existing pro-Vietnamese Cambodian regime, as well as countries like Malaysia, Thailand and Singapore, whose representative exhorted the dispirited refugees to \"go back and fight.\"\n\nThe civil war followed a wet season/dry season rhythm after 1980. The heavily armed Vietnamese forces conducted offensive operations during the dry seasons, and the Chinese-backed insurgency held the initiative during the rainy seasons. In 1982, Vietnam launched a major offensive against the main Khmer Rouge base at Phnom Malai in the Cardamom Mountains. But this operation met with little success.\n\nIn the 1984–85 dry season offensive, the Vietnamese again attacked base camps of all three anti-PRK groups. This time the Vietnamese succeeded in eliminating the Khmer Rouge camps in Cambodia and drove the insurgents into neighbouring Thailand.\nBefore retreating the Khmer Rouge laid down numerous landmines and cut down giant trees to block roads in the thick jungle along the Thai-Cambodian border causing heavy deforestation. The Vietnamese concentrated on consolidating their gains through the K5 Plan, an extravagant and labour-intensive attempt to seal guerrilla infiltration routes into the country by means of trenches, wire fences, and minefields along virtually the entire Thai-Cambodian border. The K5 border defence project, designed by Vietnamese general Lê Đức Anh, commander of the Vietnamese forces in Cambodia, irritated Cambodian farmers and ended up being psychologically counterproductive for the PRK. Large swathes of formerly inaccessible tropical forests were destroyed, leaving a negative ecological legacy.\n\nDespite the help of the Vietnamese Army, as well as of Soviet, Cuban and Vietnamese advisers, Heng Samrin had only limited success in establishing the PRK regime in the face of the ongoing civil war. Security in some rural areas was tenuous, and major transportation routes were subject to interdiction by sporadic attacks. The presence of Vietnamese throughout the country and their intrusion into Cambodian life added fuel to the traditional Cambodian anti-Vietnamese sentiment.\n\nIn 1986, Hanoi claimed to have begun withdrawing part of its occupation forces. At the same time, Vietnam continued efforts to strengthen its client regime, the PRK, and its military arm, the Kampuchean People's Revolutionary Armed Forces (KPRAF). These withdrawals continued over the next two years, although actual numbers were difficult to verify. Vietnam's proposal to withdraw its remaining occupation forces in 1989–90—one of the repercussions of the dismemberment of the Soviet bloc as well as the result of the US and Chinese pressure—forced the PRK to begin economic and constitutional reforms in an attempt to ensure future political dominance. In April 1989, Hanoi and Phnom Penh announced that final withdrawal would take place by the end of September the same year.\n\nOn 29–30 April 1989, the National Assembly of the PRK, presided by a smiling Hun Sen, held an extraordinary meeting in order to make some, at first, largely cosmetic constitutional changes. The name of \"People's Republic of Kampuchea\" was officially changed to State of Cambodia (SOC)—a name that had been previously used right after the 1970 coup—reintroducing the blue colour in the Cambodian flag and other state symbols, although the Coat of arms remained almost the same. The National Anthem and the military symbols were also changed. The KPRAF armed forces were renamed the \"Cambodian People's Armed Forces\" (CPAF). Capital punishment was officially abolished and Buddhism, which had been partially reestablished by the PRK in 1979, was fully reintroduced as the national religion, by which the restriction was lifted on the ordination of men under 50 years old and Buddhist traditional chanting was resumed in the media. Following the complete normalisation of traditional religious life, Buddhism became extremely popular in Cambodia, experiencing a widespread revival.\n\nIntending to liberalise Cambodia's economy, a set of laws on \"Personal Ownership\" and \"Free Market Orientation\" was passed as well. The new Constitution stated that Cambodia was a neutral and non-aligned state. The ruling party also announced that there would be negotiations with the groups of the opposition.\n\nThe State of Cambodia lived through a time of dramatic transitions triggered by the collapse of communism in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe. There was a reduction in Soviet aid to Vietnam which culminated in the withdrawal of the Vietnamese occupying forces. The last Vietnamese troops were said to have left Cambodia on 26 September 1989 but probably they did not leave until 1990. Many Vietnamese civilians also returned to Vietnam in the months that followed, lacking confidence in the ability of the PRK's new avatar to control the situation after the Vietnamese military had left.\n\nDespite the quite radical changes announced by Hun Sen, the SOC state stood firm when it came to the one party rule issue. The leadership structure and the executive remained the same as under the PRK, with the party firmly in control as the supreme authority. Accordingly, the SOC was unable to restore Cambodia's monarchical tradition. Although the SOC reestablished the prominence of monarchical symbols, like the grand palace in Phnom Penh, that was as far as it would go for the time-being, especially since Norodom Sihanouk had steadfastly associated himself with the CGDK, the opposition coalition against the PRK that included the Khmer Rouge. In mid-1991, however, succumbing to a number of pressures both within and outside of the country, the government of the State of Cambodia signed an agreement that recognised Prince Norodom Sihanouk as head of state. By late 1991 Sihanouk made an official visit to the SOC and both Hun Sen and Chea Sim took a leading role in the welcoming ceremony.\n\nStill, fissures appeared on the monolithic structure that the State of Cambodia was trying to preserve. Revolutionary idealism was replaced by practical cynicism, so that corruption increased. Cambodian state resources were sold without benefitting the state and high placed civil and military individuals in key posts of authority enriched themselves by pocketing whatever benefits they could grab. The result of this moral breakdown was that students revolted in the streets of Phnom Penh in December 1991. The police opened fire and eight people died in the confrontations.\n\nThe conditions for the ethnic Chinese improved greatly after 1989. Restrictions placed on them by the former PRK gradually disappeared. The State of Cambodia allowed ethnic Chinese to observe their particular religious customs and Chinese language schools were reopened. In 1991, two years after the SOC's foundation, the Chinese New Year was officially celebrated in Cambodia for the first time since 1975.\n\nPeace negotiations between the Vietnam-backed regime in Cambodia and its armed opposition groups had begun formally and informally after the mid-1980s. The negotiations were extremely difficult, for the Khmer Rouge stubbornly insisted in the dismantlement of the PRK/SOC's administration before any agreement could be reached, while the PRK/SOC leadership made it a point of excluding the Khmer Rouge from any future provisional government. Finally it would be outside historical events, in the form of the Fall of Communism and the ensuing collapse of Soviet support for Vietnam and the PRK, that would bring the PRK/SOC to the negotiating table.\n\nThe haphazard efforts towards conciliation in Cambodia culminated in the Paris Agreements in 1991, in which United Nations-sponsored free and fair elections were scheduled for 1993. As a result, the United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC) was established at the end of February 1992 to supervise the cease-fire and the ensuing general election.\n\nThe \"Kampuchean (or Khmer) People's Revolutionary Party\" (KPRP) was the sole ruling party in Cambodia from the foundation of the pro-Vietnam republic in 1979, as well as during the transitional times under the SOC in 1991, when it was renamed the Cambodian People's Party (CPP) at the beginning of the UN-sponsored peace and reconciliation process.\n\nMany members of the Kampuchean People's Revolutionary Party were former Khmer Rouge members who had fled to Vietnam after witnessing the wholesale destruction of Cambodian society as a result of the regime's radical agrarian socialist and xenophobic policies. Several prominent KPRP members, including Heng Samrin and Hun Sen, were Khmer Rouge cadres near the Cambodian-Vietnamese border who participated in the Vietnamese invasion that toppled the Khmer Rouge.\n\nFounded in June 1981, the KPRP began as a firmly Marxist–Leninist party within the PRK. However, in the mid-1980s it took on a more reformist outlook when some members pointed out problems with collectivisation and concluded that private property should play a role in Cambodian society. The extreme collectivisation of the Khmer Rouge had caused severe burn-out and distrust among farmers, who refused to work collectively as soon as the threat of the Khmer Rouge disappeared from the liberated areas. Therefore, PRK government policies had to be implemented carefully to win back the rural population's trust and to alleviate the prevailing conditions of poverty. This led eventually to the effective reinstitutionalisation of the traditional Cambodian family economy and to some more radical change of policies regarding privatisation during the State of Cambodia time (1989–1993). Despite the watered-down ideology the KPRP/CPP remained firmly in control of Cambodia until 1993.\n\nAmong the most significant policy shifts of the SOC was putting aside Marxism–Leninism as the party's ideology in 1991. This move effecively marked the end of the socialist revolutionary state in Cambodia, a form of government which had begun in 1975 when the Khmer Rouge took over.\n\nHun Sen, the current Prime Minister of Cambodia, was a key figure in the KPRP and is the current leader of its successor party, the CPP, a party that no longer lays claim to socialist credentials.\n\nAfter the KPRC proclaimed in January 1979 that the new official name of Cambodia was the \"People's Republic of Kampuchea\" (PRK), the newly established government notified the United Nations Security Council that it was the sole legitimate government of the Cambodian people.\nVietnam was the first country to recognise the new regime, and Phnom Penh immediately restored diplomatic relations with Hanoi. On 18 February, Heng Samrin on behalf of the PRK and Phạm Văn Đồng on behalf of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam signed a twenty-five-year Treaty of Peace, Friendship and Cooperation.\n\nThe Soviet Union, East Germany, Bulgaria, Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Laos, Mongolia, Cuba, South Yemen, Afghanistan, Ethiopia, Congo, Benin, and other Eastern Bloc states, as well as a number of pro-Moscow developing countries, like India, followed Vietnam in recognizing the new regime. By January 1980, twenty-nine countries had recognized the PRK, yet nearly eighty countries continued to recognize the Khmer Rouge.\n\nin turn, the regime's symbols, slogans and ideology, the military uniform and insignia largely copied Soviet-style patterns.\n\nDespite the previous international outcry and concern surrounding Pol Pot's DK regime's gross human rights violations it would prove difficult for the PRK/SOC government to gain international recognition beyond the Soviet Bloc sphere.\n\nA draft resolution by the People's Republic of China sought to condemn Vietnam in the UN Security Council after its invasion for \"its acts of armed invasion and aggression against Democratic Kampuchea, acts which ... cause serious damage to the lives and property of the Kampuchean people\".\n\nAs a result of the vehement campaign against the PRK, the Khmer Rouge retained its UN seat despite its genocidal record. Cambodia would be represented at the UN by Thiounn Prasith, Pol Pot and Ieng Sary's crony since their student days in Paris. The seat of '\"Democratic Kampuchea\"'s regime lasted for three years at the United Nations after the fall of Pol Pot's regime in Cambodia. Only in 1982 it would be renamed as 'Coalition Government of Democratic Kampuchea'. The CGDK would hold the seat until 1993, when the SOC gave way to the restoration of the Cambodian monarchy.\n\nTo refer to Cambodia as a state, the General Assembly of the United Nations continued using the terms \"Democratic Kampuchea\" and \"Kampuchea\" for over a decade. It decided to start using the term \"Cambodia\" only at the 45th session in 1990, when the transitional phase of the SOC was well on its way.\n\nThe government of the People's Republic of China, which had consistently supported the Khmer Rouge, quickly labelled the PRK as \"Vietnam's puppet state\" and declared it unacceptable. Thailand and Singapore were very vocal in their opposition to Vietnamese expansion and influence; the Singaporean representative stated that recognition of the PRK would \"violate the UN's non-intervention principle.\"\nInternational forums, like ASEAN meetings and the UN General Assembly would be used to condemn the PRK and the genocide of the Khmer Rouge was removed from the centre stage of attention and Pol Pot effectively won the support of the US and most of Europe against Vietnam.\n\nChina and most Western governments, as well as a number of African, Asian and Latin American states repeatedly backed the Khmer Rouge in the U.N. and voted in favour of DK retaining Cambodia's seat in the organisation at the expense of the PRK. British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher famously explained she believed that there were some among the Khmer Rouge \"more reasonable\" than Pol Pot.\n\nThe government of Sweden, however, had to change its vote in the U.N. and to withdraw support for the Khmer Rouge after a large number of Swedish citizens wrote letters to their elected representatives demanding a policy change towards Pol Pot's regime. France remained neutral on the issue, claiming that neither side had the right to represent Cambodia at the UN.\n\nIn the years that followed, the United States, under the staunch anti-Soviet \"rollback\" strategy of the Reagan Doctrine would support what it perceived as \"anti-communist resistance movements\" in Soviet-allied nations. The largest movement fighting Cambodia's communist government was largely made up of members of the former Khmer Rouge regime, whose human rights record was among the worst of the 20th century. Therefore, Reagan authorised the provision of aid to a smaller Cambodian resistance movement, a coalition called the Khmer People's National Liberation Front, known as the KPNLF and then run by Son Sann; in an effort to force an end to the Vietnamese occupation. Eventually, the Vietnamese withdrew, and Cambodia's communist regime fell. Then, under United Nations supervision, free elections were held.\n\nBen Kiernan claimed that the US had offered support to the Khmer Rouge after the Vietnamese invasion. Other sources have disputed these claims, and described \"extensive fighting\" between the US-backed forces of the Khmer People's National Liberation Front and the Khmer Rouge.\n\nOn 10 January 1980, the People's Revolutionary Council named Ros Samay to lead a council to draft the Constitution. He carefully wrote it in Khmer using clear and easy language whenever possible, mindful that every Cambodian should understand it. He took the constitutions of Vietnam, East Germany, the USSR, Hungary and Bulgaria, as well as previous Cambodian constitutions (Kingdom of Cambodia, Khmer Republic), as a reference. Since Ros Samay's draft failed to please the Vietnamese, he was publicly discredited and his draft scrapped.\n\nThe wording of the PRK's constitution stressed the relations between the PRK regime and Vietnam. Prime Minister Pen Sovann acknowledged that the Vietnamese \"insisted on changing some clauses they didn't agree with\". Finally, on 27 June 1981, a new Constitution was promulgated that pleased the Vietnamese. It defined Cambodia as \"a democratic state...gradually advancing toward socialism.\" The transition to socialism was to take place under the leadership of the Marxist-Leninist KPRP. The Constitution explicitly placed Cambodia within the Soviet Union's orbit. The country's primary enemies, according to the Constitution, were \"the Chinese expansionists and hegemonists in Beijing, acting in collusion with United States imperialism and other powers.\"\n\nWhile technically guaranteeing a \"broad range of civil liberties and fundamental rights\", the Constitution placed a number of restrictions. For example, \"an act may not injure the honor of other persons, nor should it adversely affect the mores and customs of society, or public order, or national security.\" In line with the principle of socialist collectivism, citizens were obligated to carry out \"the state's political line and defend collective property.\"\n\nThe Constitution also addressed principles governing culture, education, social welfare, and public health. Development of language, literature, the arts, and science and technology was stressed, along with the need for cultural preservation, tourist promotion, and cultural co-operation with foreign countries.\n\nProvisions for state organs were in the constitutional chapters dealing with the National Assembly, the Council of State, the Council of Ministers, the local people's revolutionary committees, and the judiciary. Fundamental to the operation of all public bodies was the principle that the Marxist-Leninist KPRP served as the most important political institution of the state. Intermediary linkages between the state bureaucracy and grass-roots activities were provided by numerous organisations affiliated with the Kampuchean (or Khmer) United Front for National Construction and Defense (KUFNCD).\n\nThe constitution was revised in 1989 to accommodate the market-oriented policies of the newly formed \"State of Cambodia\". This state was basically a continuation of the PRK regime adapted to the new realities dictated by the collapse of the Soviet bloc, when Mikhail Gorbachev reduced to a minimum Soviet support for Vietnam and Cambodia. Suddenly the Cambodian leadership found itself scrambling for favour abroad, which included the need to open its markets, the gradual abandoning of its original pro-Soviet stance and the pressure to find some accommodation with the factions warring against it.\n\nThe PRK's Constitution had not made any mention of a Head of State, perhaps reserving this role for Sihanouk.\nThe State of Cambodia Constitution, however, stated that the President of the Council of State would be the \"Head of State of Cambodia\".\n\nAn administrative infrastructure functioning under the Marxist-Leninist KPRC was more or less in place between 1979 and 1980. With the promulgation of the Constitution in June 1981, new organs, such as the National Assembly, the Council of State, and the Council of Ministers, assumed certain functions that the KPRC had provided. These new bodies evolved slowly. It was not until February 1982 that the National Assembly enacted specific laws for these bodies.\n\nDespite the presence of Vietnamese advisors, the government of the PRK was made up entirely of Cambodian KUFNS members. Initially the Vietnamese advisors, like Lê Đức Thọ, had promised that they would not interfere with Cambodian internal affairs. However, as soon as the PRK was formed and the KUFNS was in power, Lê Đức Thọ, acting as liaison chief between Hanoi and Phnom Penh, broke his promise. Henceforward the members of the Government of the PRK had to walk a narrow path between Cambodian nationalism and \"Indochinese solidarity\" with Vietnam, which meant making sure they didn't irritate their Vietnamese patrons. PRK government members, no matter how highly placed, who offended the Vietnamese, whether intentionally or not, were swiftly denounced and purged. Among these were Ros Samai, Pen Sovann and Chan Sy. The latter, a founding member of the KUNFS who had reached the post of Prime Minister, died in mysterious circumstances in 1984 in Moscow.\n\nThe \"supreme organ of state power\" was the National Assembly, whose deputies are directly elected for five-year terms. The assembly's 117 seats were filled on 1 May 1981, the date of the PRK's first elections. (The KUFNS had nominated 148 candidates.) The voter turnout was reported as 99.17 percent of the electorate, which was divided into 20 electoral districts.\n\nDuring its first session in June, the assembly adopted the new Constitution and elected members of the state organs set up under the Constitution. The assembly had been empowered to adopt or to amend the Constitution and the laws and to oversee their implementation; to determine domestic and foreign policies; to adopt economic and cultural programs and the state budget; and to elect or to remove its own officers and members of the Council of State and of the Council of Ministers. The assembly also was authorised to levy, revise, or abolish taxes; to decide on amnesties; and to ratify or to abrogate international treaties. As in other socialist states, the assembly's real function is to endorse the legislative and administrative measures initiated by the Council of State and by the Council of Ministers, both of which serve as agents of the ruling KPRP.\n\nThe National Assembly met typically twice a year. During the periods between its sessions, legislative functions were handled by the Council of State. Bills were introduced by the Council of State, the Council of Ministers, the assembly's several commissions (legislative committees), chairman of the KUFNCD, and heads of other organisations. Individual deputies were not entitled to introduce bills.\n\nOnce bills, state plans and budgets, and other measures were introduced, they were studied first by the assembly's commissions. Then they went to the assembly for adoption. While ordinary bills were passed by a simple majority, constitutional amendments required a two-thirds majority. The Council of State had to promulgate an adopted bill within thirty days of its passage. Another function of the assembly was to oversee the affairs of the Council of Ministers, which functions as the cabinet. Assembly members were not entitled to call for votes of confidence in the cabinet. Conversely, the Council of Ministers was not empowered to dissolve the National Assembly.\n\nThe Constitution stated that in case of war or under \"other exceptional circumstances,\" the five-year life of the Assembly may be extended by decree. In 1986 the assembly's term was extended for another five years, until 1991.\n\nChairman National Assembly (1985): Chea Sim\n\nVice chairmen: Math Ly, Tep Vong, Nu Beng\n\nThe National Assembly elected seven of its members to the Council of State. The chairman of the council served as the head of state, but the power to serve as ex officio supreme commander of the armed forces was deleted from the final draft of the Constitution.\n\nThe council's seven members were among the most influential leaders of the PRK. Between sessions of the National Assembly, the Council of State carried out the assembly's duties. It may appoint or remove (on the recommendation of the Council of Ministers) cabinet ministers, ambassadors, and envoys accredited to foreign governments. Foreign diplomatic envoys presented their letters of accreditation to the Council of State.\n\nCouncil of State(1985):\n\nChairman: Heng Samrin\n\nVice-chairman: Say Phouthang\n\nThe government's top executive organ was the Council of Ministers, or cabinet, which in late 1987 was headed by Hun Sen (as it had been since January 1985). Apart from the prime minister (formally called chairman), the Council of Ministers had two deputy prime ministers (vice chairmen) and twenty ministers. The National Assembly elected the council's ministers for five-year terms.\n\nThe Council of Ministers met weekly in an executive session. Decisions made in the executive sessions were \"collective,\" whereas those in the plenary sessions were by a majority. Representatives of KUFNCD and other mass organisations, to which all citizens may belong, were sometimes invited to attend plenary sessions of the council \"when [it was] discussing important issues.\" These representatives could express their views but they were not allowed to vote.\n\nGovernment ministries were in charge of agriculture; communications, transport, and posts; education; finance; foreign affairs; health; home and foreign trade; industry; information and culture; interior; justice; national defence; planning; and social affairs and invalids. In addition, the cabinet includes a minister for agricultural affairs and rubber plantations, who was attached to the Office of the Council of Ministers; a minister in charge of the Office of the Council of Ministers; a secretary general of the Office of the Council of Ministers, who was also in charge of transport and of Khmer-Thai border defence networks; a director of the State Affairs Inspectorate; and the president-director general of the People's National Bank of Kampuchea.\n\nCouncil of Ministers (1985):\n\nChairman: Hun Sen (and Minister Foreign Affairs)\n\nVice chairmen: Chea Soth, Bou Thang, Kong Sam, Tea Banh, Say Chhum\n\nThe restoration of law and order was one of the more pressing tasks of the Heng Samrin regime. Since 1979 the administration of justice was in the hands of people's revolutionary courts that were set up hastily in Phnom Penh and in other major provincial cities. A new law dealing with the organisation of courts and with the Office of Public Prosecutor was promulgated in February 1982. Under this law, the People's Supreme Court became the highest court of the land.\n\nThe judicial system comprised the people's revolutionary courts, the military tribunals, and the public prosecutors' offices. The Council of Ministers, on the recommendations of local administrative bodies called people's revolutionary committees, appointed judges and public prosecutors.\n\nIn late 1987, the country was divided into eighteen provinces (\"khet\") and two special municipalities (\"krong\"), Phnom Penh and Kampong Saom, which were under direct central government control.\n\nThe provinces were subdivided into about 122 districts (srok), 1,325 communes (\"khum\"), and 9,386 villages (\"phum\"). The subdivisions of the municipalities were wards (\"sangkat\").\n\nAn elective body, consisting of a chairman (president), one or more vice chairmen, and a number of committee members, ran each people's revolutionary committee. These elective bodies were chosen by representatives of the next lower level people's revolutionary committees at the provincial and district levels.\n\nAt the provincial and district levels, where the term of office was five years, committee members needed the additional endorsement of officials representing the KUFNCD and other affiliated mass organisations. At the commune and ward level, the members of the people's revolutionary committees are elected directly by local inhabitants for a three-year term.\n\nBefore the first local elections, which were held in February and March 1981, the central government appointed local committee officials. In late 1987, it was unclear whether the chairpersons of the local revolutionary committees reported to the Office of the Council of Ministers or to the Ministry of Interior.\n\nThe regular armed forces of the People's Republic of Kampuchea were the Kampuchean People's Revolutionary Armed Forces (KPRAF). These were needed to project internationally the image of the new pro-Hanoi administration in Phnom Penh as a legitimate sovereign state. Raising such an indigenous force was not too difficult for the Vietnamese occupiers at the time, because the Vietnamese already had experience training and co-ordinating the army in neighbouring Laos.\n\nThe KPRAF was formed initially from militias, former Khmer Rouge members, and conscripts. KPRAF troops were trained and supplied by the Vietnamese armed forces. But owing to a lack of proper training and weapons, meagre salaries and mass desertions, the fledgling KPRAF was not an effective fighting force and the bulk of the fighting against the CGDK forces was left in the end to the army of the occupiers, the Vietnam People's Army.\n\nThe Khmer Rouge forced the Vietnamese to employ guerrilla warfare as one of their tactics. As years went by the Vietnamese suffered damaging casualties, and the persistent civil war debilitated Cambodia and hampered reconstruction efforts. The Khmer Rouge gained confidence that they could keep swiping away Vietnamese armies, and the Vietnamese found out how easy it is to become the prey rather than the predator. In fact some books have called this \"Vietnam's Vietnam War\".\n\nThe KPRAF was answerable to two organisations below the Council of State, namely, the Ministry of National Defense and the General Staff. Veterans from the Eastern Zone revolution, especially those from Kampong Cham, Svay Rieng, as well as people who had been educated in Vietnam after the 1954 Geneva Conference held important positions in the Ministry of National Defense. Control of the KPRAF military establishment and its adherence to the political orthodoxy of the Kampuchean (or Khmer) People's Revolutionary Party (KPRP) were ensured by a party network, superimposed upon the national defence structure, that extended downward to units at all echelons.\n\nThe KPRAF developed also a system of military justice, with military tribunals, as well as a network of military prisons.\n\nIn 1989 began the transition that culminated in the 1991 Paris Peace Agreements. After the name of the People's Republic of Kampuchea had been officially changed to State of Cambodia (SOC), the KPRAF were renamed the Cambodian People's Armed Forces (CPAF). Following the 1993 elections the CPAF were absorbed into a new national army of Royalist, Nationalist and CPAF troops.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4143414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4143414", "title": "Pre-industrial society", "text": "Pre-industrial society\n\nPre-industrial society refers to social attributes and forms of political and cultural organization that were prevalent before the advent of the Industrial Revolution, which occurred from 1750 to 1850. Pre-industrial is a time before there were machines and tools to help perform tasks en masse. Pre-industrial civilization dates back to centuries ago, but the main era known as the Pre-Industrial Society occurred right before the industrial society.\nPre-Industrial societies vary from region to region depending on the culture of a given area or history of social and political life. Europe is known for its feudal system and Medieval era.\n\n\n\nHarsh working conditions were prevalent long before the Industrial Revolution took place. Pre-industrial society was very static and often cruel – child labour, dirty living conditions, and long working hours were equally as prevalent before the Industrial Revolution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16462397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16462397", "title": "Richer of Senones", "text": "Richer of Senones\n\nRicher of Senones (sometimes in French: Richer le Lorrain) (circa 1190–1266) was a monk and chronicler of Senones Abbey in Lorraine, a traveller and one of the very few chroniclers or historians of the Vosges whose works have survived complete.\n\nHe was born probably around 1190, quite possibly in the Val de Lièpvre (now in Haut-Rhin), perhaps a younger son of an Alsatian or Lotharingian noble family. He studied at Strasbourg and was admitted to Senones Abbey under abbot Henri (1202–1225). In about 1218 Richer was sent as an ambassador of Senones to Würzburg when Theobald I, Duke of Lorraine, was prisoner of Emperor Frederick II, after the fire of Nancy and the siege of Amance.\n\nHe travelled extensively throughout the Vosges, which he knew extremely well, and throughout Alsace and Lorraine, where he often encountered monks from Lièpvre Priory as well as monks from St. Denis' Abbey in Paris, who had possessions in the Val de Lièpvre. He visited St. Denis' Abbey himself in 1223, probably together with monks from Lièpvre. He often visited the castles of Bilstein in Urbeis and Échéry in Sainte Croix-aux-Mines, as well as the renowned castle of Bernstein. He also knew Gorze Abbey, St. Evre's Abbey, Toul, and the abbey at Saint-Dié.\n\nRicher is an enthusiastic recorder of his travels, and of religious stories and traditions that he has encountered. Unusually for the time, he is also a fine observer of landscapes, particularly the spectacular scenery of the Vosges, and takes great pains to describe what he has observed. A peculiarity of his language is the use of the word \"Teudons\" to describe the inhabitants of Alsace.\n\nHis Latin chronicles survive in nine copy manuscripts. Four date from the 16th century, two are translations, another two are from the 17th century and one is from 1826. The copies originate from the monasteries at Senones, Moyenmoutier and Etival.\n\n"}
{"id": "22982068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22982068", "title": "Robert Sabatino Lopez", "text": "Robert Sabatino Lopez\n\nRobert Sabatino Lopez (October 8, 1910 – July 6, 1986), also known as Robert S. Lopez, was a Jewish-Italian-American historian of medieval European economic history. He taught for many years at Yale University as a Sterling Professor of History with a great passion also for the history of the Commons in Italy and Europe in general.\n\nRoberto Sabatino Lopez was born in Genoa, Italy. He received a doctorate from the University of Milan in 1932 and taught medieval history at various universities in Italy until 1939, when he fled Benito Mussolini's regime to go to the United States. Hoping to find employment at an American university, Lopez enrolled in the graduate history program at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, which awarded him a Ph.D in 1942.\n\nFrom 1942 to 1944 Lopez worked in the Italian section of the Office of War Information in New York City. There he met his future wife, Claude-Anne Kirschen, a wartime refugee from Belgium who had come to New York with her family in 1940. He afterward maintained that his successful courtship of her was his supreme wartime accomplishment.\n\nHe married Claude-Anne Kirschen in 1946. They had two sons, Michael and Lawrence, after moving to New Haven, Connecticut.\n\nIn 1946, Lopez was hired as an assistant professor at Yale. He rose through the academic ranks to full professor. He was honored by selection as a Sterling Professor of History, a recognition of his academic contributions.\n\nAt Yale, in 1962 Lopez founded the interdisciplinary graduate program in Medieval Studies, and served as its chairman for many years. Originally a master's program, it awarded doctorates by 1965. When founded, it was the third such medieval studies program in the United States.\n\nLopez trained a number of distinguished medieval scholars, among them David Herlihy, Edward M. Peters, and Patrick J. Geary. Lopez retired from the Yale faculty in 1981 after 35 years at the university.\n\nLopez's main contributions to the field were in the history of trade and commerce in the medieval Mediterranean. He was particularly interested in showing the dynamism and creativity of medieval towns and economic networks. Other scholars had frequently compared unfavorably to those of the Renaissance and early modern period.\n\nIn his best-known book, \"The Commercial Revolution of the Middle Ages\" (1971, with numerous reprints), Lopez argued that the key contribution of the medieval period to European history was the creation of a commercial economy. He said it was first based in the Italo-Byzantine eastern Mediterranean, but eventually extended to the Italian city-states and through the rest of Europe. Lopez noted that it was the Renaissance period that was characterized by economic decline. Lopez's scholarship was underpinned by his expert knowledge of medieval agriculture, industry and especially coinage.\n\nLopez died from cancer in 1986. His library and papers were acquired by Arizona State University.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "519316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=519316", "title": "Sabino Arana", "text": "Sabino Arana\n\nSabino Policarpo Arana Goiri, self-styled as Arana ta Goiri'taŕ Sabin (26 January 1865 – 25 November 1903), was a Spanish writer. He was the founder of the Basque Nationalist Party (PNV) and father of Basque nationalism.\n\nHe died in Sukarrieta at the age of 38 after falling ill with Addison's disease during time spent in prison. He had been charged with treason for attempting to send a telegram to President Theodore Roosevelt, in which he praised the United States for helping Cuba gain independence from Spain.\n\nOne of the consequences of the First Carlist War was the substitution of the Ancien Régime Basque home rule (\"fueros\") by a limited still relevant autonomy. A majority in Navarre and the rest of the Basque districts supported the pretender to the Spanish crown Carlos V for his support to their institutions and laws (characterized for being more liberal than elsewhere in Spain). However, they were defeated in 1839, and Navarre, Biscay, Álava and Gipuzkoa were integrated into the Spanish customs system. Basque industrialists profited from privatization of exploitations and the Spanish captive market with the iron ore and the Bessemer converter, and Biscay became \"the iron California\". Workers from all of Spain were attracted to the area as labourers for the burgeoning industry.\n\nArana was born in a \"jauntxo\" (\"petty noble\") family from Abando, a neighbourhood that had been recently incorporated into the city of Bilbao as the new extension for the growth of the industrial era. Abando was a Basque speaking town, but following the attitudes of the elites in the area of Bilbao during this period, Basque was not transmitted to Arana's siblings within the family. Abando and its port were at the centre of the \"Zamacolada\" uprising against attempts by the Spanish premier Manuel Godoy to recruit Basques for the Spanish army (1804), a \"contrafuero\" or breach of basic Basque legislation.\n\nIn the aftermath of the Third Carlist War (1876), Arana attended the Jesuit School of Orduña along with his brother Luis (1876–1881). Orduña became a hotspot and meeting point for the pro-\"fueros\", primeval Basque nationalists concerned with the loss of the Basque native institutions. Arana claimed that he had a quasi-religious revelation at Easter 1882, one that he communicated to his brother Luis Arana. From then he devoted himself to the nationalist cause of Biscay, later extended to the Basque Country.\n\nHe was an early defender of the use of the Basque language in all areas of society, to avoid its increasing marginalization in the face of Spanish language penetration, imposed as mandatory in schooling and administration, even certain cultural events (theatre, etc.). He learned the language as a young man, but was ready to compete for a position as a Basque language professor at the \"Instituto de Bilbao\", contending against Miguel de Unamuno and the winner, Resurrección María de Azkue who became an erudite scholar of the language. He made a strong effort to establish a codified orthography and grammar for the Basque language, and proposed several neologisms to replace loanwords of Spanish origin. Some of these innovations, like the characters \"ĺ\" and \"ŕ\", were ultimately rejected in the standardization efforts for the Basque language undertaken since 1968 leading to the establishment of Standard Basque—the \"Euskara Batua\".\n\nHis first published work was \"Bizkaya por su independencia\" (\"Biscay for its independence\"), where he calls for the independence of the Biscay district from Castile-Spain (\"as it was before 1200\"), echoing like proposals put forward by Gipuzkoa's governmental representatives to the National Convention officials Pinet and Cavaignac in Getaria during the War of the Pyrenees (1793–1795). The document is a collection of historical events, mythical stories and sometimes inaccurate accounts of earlier battles of the ancient people of Biscay. Just as others nationalist ideologies were doing during the period, e.g. Spanish nationalism, Arana's historic accounts distorted and magnified events from Basque history. Distancing himself from the pro-\"fueros\" advocates, Arana refused to demand a reversal of , instead putting an emphasis on the full restoration of home rule suppressed in 1839. He considered the as the act putting an end to the Basque own sources of authority and 'secular Basque independence', as well as a violation of international law.\n\nIn 1894, he founded the first center for the new nationalist party, (Partido Nacionalista Vasco), the second-oldest political party in Spain, to provide a place for gathering and proselytizing. Sabino Arana, like many Europeans of his time, believed that the essence of a country was defined by its blood or ethnic composition. In Spain, the supremacy of the Spanish race and its \"civilizing\" pursuit over peoples held to be inferior was defended by the main political figures and parties, while a number of intellectuals Spanish and even Basque, including the Socialists, advocated for the extinction of the Basque language—ever more marginalized to family and informal environments. Despite his religious integrism and racist views, he is considered by many Basques to be a gadfly that sparked the movement for the cultural revival of the Basques, and for the freedom of his people. In that respect, Arana defended the Constitutional foundations of the abolished Basque institutional and legal framework (the \"fueros\"). The PNV, the party in power in the Basque Autonomous Community from the end of Francoism (except during 2009-2012), developed along more nuanced and pragmatic lines in respect of religion and views on race, moving away from his most controversial ideas but not from his figure.\n\nHe was a prolific writer, with over 600 journalism articles, most of them with a propaganda purpose. He liked to shock and provoke, in order to get attention from a society that he deemed unaware of its fate. There are two key aspects of Sabino Arana's political figure:\n\n\nAnother essential part of his ideology was devout Catholicism. He considered this to be an essential part of the Basque identity that contrasted with the secularism imported from other parts of Spain and abroad along with new means of production and labour, often unprecedented immigration. However, his Basque nationalism kept him away from Carlism that was the dominant ultra-Catholic and conservative movement in the area and the ideology of his father. Arana and his Basque nationalist movement were persecuted for their ideas against Spanish imperialism, for which he was convicted when he submitted a a telegram to Theodore Roosevelt to congratulate him for his assistance in 'liberating' Cuba in 1902, and put to harsh time in prison, which ruined his health and would die soon after. Ahead of his demise, a baffling manifesto attributed to him was released by which he relinquished the core of his ideas to everyone's surprise. The nature of this document establishing the \"Liga de Vascos Españolistas\" ('League for the Spanish-minded Basques') is still subject to debate, whether he had sincerely changed his views or he was trying to improve the conditions of his imprisonment. Arana's death left the question unanswered and neither his brother Luis nor the party followed through with his proposal.\n\nSabino Arana, coming from a Carlist background, created a xenophobic ideology centered on the purity of the Basque race and its so-called moral supremacy over others (a derivation of the system of \"limpieza de sangre\" of Modern-Age Spain), anti-Liberal Catholic integrism, and deep opposition to the migration of Spaniards to the Basque Country.\n\nUnlike many contemporary conservative politicians in Spain, he was against slavery in Spanish colonies such as Cuba. He was disturbed by the immigration into Biscay of many workers from western and central Spain during the industrial revolution, into a small territory whose native political institutions had recently been suppressed (1876), believing that their influence would result in the disappearance of the 'pure' Basque race. He presented the Basque as opposed to the \"maketo\" (people from the rest of Spain):\n\nSabino Arana's ideas are considered to have spawned the Basque nationalist movement. Today, he is viewed by some as a controversial figure, due to his xenophobia and ethnocentrism and his ideas of a pure race.\n\nIn 2015 a TV Movie called 'Sabin' was released.\n\nIn February 2017 the People's Party of the Basque Country called for a street named after Arana to be renamed because of his \"racism\" and because he “made possible the existence of phenomena such as the ETA terrorist group”.\n\nThe Partido Nacionalista Vasco has kept only the more moderate part of his message. On the other hand, some Basques still revere him as the father of the Basque nationalist movement, who managed to start the turnaround of the decay of the Basque language and culture. Many Basque cities have streets named after him.\nThe estate of his Abando home is now \"Sabin-Etxea\" (\"Sabino-House\"), the EAJ-PNV headquarters.\n\nJon Juaristi has remarked that perhaps the most influential part of his heritage is the neologistic list of Basque versions of names in his \"Deun-Ixendegi Euzkotarra\" (\"Basque saint-name collection\", published in 1910). Instead of the traditional adaptations of Romance names, he proposed others he made up and that in his opinion were truer to the originals and adapted to the Basque phonology.\n\nFor example, his brother Luis became \"Koldobika\", from Frankish \"Hlodwig\". The traditional \"Peru\", \"Pello\" or \"Piarres\" (\"Peter\") became \"Kepa\" from Aramaic כיפא (Kepha). He believed that the suffix \"-[n]e\" was inherently feminine, and new names like \"Nekane\" (\"pain\"+\"ne\", \"Dolores\") or \"Garbine\" (\"clean\"+\"ne\", \"Immaculate [Conception]\") are frequent among Basque females. Even the name of the brother-in-law of the king of Spain is Iñaki Urdangarin, \"Iñaki\" being Arana's alternative for Ignatius instead of the Basque traditional \"Inazio\", \"Iñigo\" or \"Eneko\" (which are all related).\n\n"}
{"id": "29161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29161", "title": "Saints Cyril and Methodius", "text": "Saints Cyril and Methodius\n\nSaints Cyril and Methodius (826–869, 815–885; (\"Kýrillos kaí Methódios\"), Old Church Slavonic: Кѷриллъ и Меѳодїи) were two brothers who were Byzantine Christian theologians and Christian missionaries. Through their work they influenced the cultural development of all Slavs, for which they received the title \"\"Apostles to the Slavs\". They are credited with devising the Glagolitic alphabet, the first alphabet used to transcribe Old Church Slavonic. After their deaths, their pupils continued their missionary work among other Slavs. Both brothers are venerated in the Orthodox Church as saints with the title of \"equal-to-apostles\"\". In 1880, Pope Leo XIII introduced their feast into the calendar of the Roman Catholic Church. In 1980, Pope John Paul II declared them co-patron saints of Europe, together with Benedict of Nursia.\n\nThe two brothers were born in Thessalonica, in present-day Greece – Cyril in about 827–828 and Methodius about 815–820. Cyril was reputedly the youngest of seven brothers; he was born Constantine, but was given the name Cyril upon becoming a monk in Rome shortly before his death, according to the \"Vita Cyrilli\" (\"The Life of Cyril\"). Methodius was born Michael and was given the name Methodius upon becoming a monk at Mysian Olympus (present-day Uludağ), in northwest Turkey. Their father was Leo, a \"droungarios\" of the Byzantine theme of Thessalonica, and their mother was Maria.\n\nThe exact ethnic origins of the brothers are unknown, there is controversy as to whether Cyril and Methodius were of Slavic or Byzantine Greek origin, or both. The two brothers lost their father when Cyril was fourteen, and the powerful minister Theoktistos, who was \"logothetes tou dromou\", one of the chief ministers of the Empire, became their protector. He was also responsible, along with the regent Bardas, for initiating a far-reaching educational program within the Empire which culminated in the establishment of the University of Magnaura, where Cyril was to teach. Cyril was ordained as priest some time after his education, while his brother Methodius remained a deacon until 867/868.\n\nAbout the year 860, Byzantine Emperor Michael III and the Patriarch of Constantinople Photius (a professor of Cyril's at the University and his guiding light in earlier years), sent Cyril on a missionary expedition to the Khazars who had requested a scholar be sent to them who could converse with both Jews and Saracens. This mission was unsuccessful, as later the Khagan imposed Judaism on his people as the national religion. It has been claimed that Methodius accompanied Cyril on the mission to the Khazars, but this may be a later invention. The account of his life presented in the Latin \"Legenda\" claims that he learned the Khazar language while in Chersonesos, in Taurica (today Crimea). \n\nAfter his return to Constantinople, Cyril assumed the role of professor of philosophy at the University while his brother had by this time become a significant player in Byzantine political and administrative affairs, and an abbot of his monastery.\n\nIn 862, the brothers began the work which would give them their historical importance. That year Prince Rastislav of Great Moravia requested that Emperor Michael III and the Patriarch Photius send missionaries to evangelize his Slavic subjects. His motives in doing so were probably more political than religious. Rastislav had become king with the support of the Frankish ruler Louis the German, but subsequently sought to assert his independence from the Franks. It is a common misconception that Cyril and Methodius were the first to bring Christianity to Moravia, but the letter from Rastislav to Michael III states clearly that Rastislav's people \"had already rejected paganism and adhere to the Christian law.\" Rastislav is said to have expelled missionaries of the Roman Church and instead turned to Constantinople for ecclesiastical assistance and, presumably, a degree of political support. The Emperor quickly chose to send Cyril, accompanied by his brother Methodius. The request provided a convenient opportunity to expand Byzantine influence. Their first work seems to have been the training of assistants. In 863, they began the task of translating the Bible into the language now known as Old Church Slavonic and travelled to Great Moravia to promote it. They enjoyed considerable success in this endeavour. However, they came into conflict with German ecclesiastics who opposed their efforts to create a specifically Slavic liturgy.\n\nFor the purpose of this mission, they devised the Glagolitic alphabet, the first alphabet to be used for Slavonic manuscripts. The Glagolitic alphabet was suited to match the specific features of the Slavic language. Its descendant script, the Cyrillic, is still used by many languages today.\n\nThe missionaries to the East and South Slavs had great success in part because they used the people's native language rather than Latin or Greek. In Great Moravia, Constantine and Methodius encountered Frankish missionaries from Germany, representing the western or Latin branch of the Church, and more particularly representing the Holy Roman Empire as founded by Charlemagne, and committed to linguistic, and cultural uniformity. They insisted on the use of the Latin liturgy, and they regarded Moravia and the Slavic peoples as part of their rightful mission field.\n\nWhen friction developed, the brothers, unwilling to be a cause of dissension among Christians, travelled to Rome to see the Pope, seeking an agreement that would avoid quarrelling between missionaries in the field. Pope Adrian II gave Methodius the title of Archbishop of Sirmium (now Sremska Mitrovica in Serbia) and sent him back in 869, with jurisdiction over all of Moravia and Pannonia, and authorisation to use the Slavonic Liturgy. Soon, however, Prince Ratislav, who had originally invited the brothers to Moravia, died, and his successor did not support Methodius. In 870 the Frankish king Louis and his bishops deposed Methodius at a synod at Ratisbon, and imprisoned him for a little over two years. Pope John VIII secured his release, but instructed him to stop using the Slavonic Liturgy.\n\nIn 878, Methodius was summoned to Rome on charges of heresy and using Slavonic. This time Pope John was convinced by the arguments that Methodius made in his defence and sent him back cleared of all charges, and with permission to use Slavonic. The Carolingian bishop who succeeded him, Witching, suppressed the Slavonic Liturgy and forced the followers of Methodius into exile. Many found refuge with Knyaz Boris of Bulgaria, under whom they reorganised a Slavic-speaking Church. Meanwhile, Pope John's successors adopted a Latin-only policy which lasted for centuries.\n\nThe brothers wrote the first Slavic Civil Code, which was used in Great Moravia. The language derived from Old Church Slavonic, known as Church Slavonic, is still used in liturgy by several Orthodox Churches and also in some Eastern Catholic churches.\n\nIt is impossible to determine with certainty what portions of the Bible the brothers translated. The New Testament and the Psalms seem to have been the first, followed by other lessons from the Old Testament. The \"Translatio\" speaks only of a version of the Gospels by Cyril, and the \"Vita Methodii\" only of the \"evangelium Slovenicum,\" though other liturgical selections may also have been translated.\n\nNor is it known for sure which liturgy, that of Rome or that of Constantinople, they took as a source. They may well have used the Roman alphabet, as suggested by liturgical fragments which adhere closely to the Latin type. This view is confirmed by the \"Prague Fragments\" and by certain Old Glagolitic liturgical fragments brought from Jerusalem to Kiev and discovered there by Saresnewsky—probably the oldest document for the Slavonic tongue; these adhere closely to the Latin type, as is shown by the words \"Mass,\" \"Preface,\" and the name of one Felicitas. In any case, the circumstances were such that the brothers could hope for no permanent success without obtaining the authorization of Rome.\n\nIn 867, Pope Nicholas I invited the brothers to Rome. Their evangelizing mission in Moravia had by this time become the focus of a dispute with Theotmar, the Archbishop of Salzburg and bishop of Passau, who claimed ecclesiastical control of the same territory and wished to see it use the Latin liturgy exclusively. Travelling with the relics of Saint Clement and a retinue of disciples, and passing through Pannonia (the Balaton Principality), where they were well received by Prince Koceľ (Kocelj, Kozel), they arrived in Rome in 868, where they were warmly received. This was partly due to their bringing with them the relics of Saint Clement; the rivalry with Constantinople as to the jurisdiction over the territory of the Slavs would incline Rome to value the brothers and their influence.\n\nThe brothers were praised for their learning and cultivated for their influence in Constantinople. Anastasius Bibliothecarius would later call Cyril \"a man of apostolic life\" and \"a man of great wisdom\". Their project in Moravia found support from Pope Adrian II, who formally authorized the use of the new Slavic liturgy. Subsequently Methodius was ordained as priest by the pope himself, and five Slavic disciples were ordained as priests (Saint Gorazd, Saint Clement of Ohrid and Saint Naum) and as deacons (Saint Angelar and Saint Sava) by the prominent bishops Formosus and Gauderic. Cyril and Methodius along with these five disciples are collectively venerated (mainly by the Bulgarian Orthodox Church) as \"Seven Saints\". The newly made priests officiated in their own languages at the altars of some of the principal churches. Feeling his end approaching, Cyril became a monk, was given the new name Cyril, and died in Rome fifty days later (14 February 869). There is some question as to assertion of the \"Translatio\" (ix.) that he was made a bishop.\n\nMethodius now continued the work among the Slavs alone; not at first in Great Moravia, but in Pannonia (in the Balaton Principality), owing to the political circumstances of the former country, where Rastislav had been taken captive by his nephew Svatopluk, then delivered over to Carloman, and condemned in a diet of the empire at the end of 870.\n\nFriendly relations had been established with Koceľ on the journey to Rome. This activity in Pannonia made a conflict inevitable with the German episcopate, and especially with the bishop of Salzburg, to whose jurisdiction Pannonia had belonged for seventy-five years. In 865 Bishop Adalwin is found exercising all Episcopal rights there, and the administration under him was in the hands of the archpriest Riehbald. The latter was obliged to retire to Salzburg, but his superior was naturally disinclined to abandon his claims. Methodius sought support from Rome; the \"Vita\" asserts that Koceľ sent him thither with an honorable escort to receive Episcopal consecration.\n\nThe letter given as Adrian's in chap. viii., with its approval of the Slavonic mass, is a pure invention. The pope named Methodius archbishop of Sirmium with jurisdiction over Great Moravia and Pannonia, thus superseding the claims of Salzburg by an older title. The statement of the \"Vita\" that Methodius was made bishop in 870 and not raised to the dignity of an archbishop until 873 is contradicted by the brief of Pope John VIII, written in June 879, according to which Adrian consecrated him archbishop; John includes in his jurisdiction not only Great Moravia and Pannonia, but Serbia as well.\n\nThe archiepiscopal claims of Methodius were considered such an injury to the rights of Salzburg that he was forced to answer for them at a synod held at Regensburg in the presence of King Louis. The assembly, after a heated discussion, declared the deposition of the intruder, and ordered him to be sent to Germany, where he was kept prisoner in Ellwangen for two and a half years. In spite of the strong representations of the \"Conversio Bagoariorum et Carantanorum\", written in 871 to influence the pope, though not avowing this purpose, Rome declared emphatically for Methodius, and sent a bishop, Paul of Ancons, to reinstate him and punish his enemies, after which both parties were commanded to appear in Rome with the legate.\n\nThe papal will prevailed, and Methodius secured his freedom and his archiepiscopal authority over both Great Moravia and Pannonia, though the use of Slavonic for the mass was still denied to him. His authority was restricted in Pannonia when after Koceľ's death the principality was administered by German nobles; but Svatopluk now ruled with practical independence in Great Moravia, and expelled the German clergy. This apparently secured an undisturbed field of operation for Methodius, and the \"Vita\" (x.) depicts the next few years (873–879) as a period of fruitful progress. Methodius seems to have disregarded, wholly or in part, the prohibition of the Slavonic liturgy; and when Frankish clerics again found their way into the country, and the archbishop's strictness had displeased the licentious Svatopluk, this was made a cause of complaint against him at Rome, coupled with charges regarding the \"Filioque\".\n\nMethodius vindicated his orthodoxy at Rome, the more easily as the creed was still recited there without the \"Filioque\", and promised to obey in regard to the liturgy. The other party was conciliated by giving him a Swabian, , as his coadjutor. When relations were strained between the two, John VIII steadfastly supported Methodius; but after his death (December 882) the archbishop's position became insecure, and his need of support induced Goetz to accept the statement of the \"Vita\" (xiii.) that he went to visit the Eastern emperor.\n\nIt was not until after Methodius' death, which is placed on 6 April 885, that the animosity erupted into an open conflict. Gorazd, whom Methodius had designated as his successor, was not recognised by Pope Stephen V. The same Pope forbade the use of the Slavic liturgy and placed the infamous as Methodius' successor. The latter exiled the disciples of the two brothers from Great Moravia in 885. They fled to the First Bulgarian Empire, where they were welcomed and commissioned to establish theological schools. There they and scholar Saint Clement of Ohrid devised the Cyrillic script on the basis of the Glagolitic. Cyrillic gradually replaced Glagolitic as the alphabet of the Old Church Slavonic language, which became the official language of the Bulgarian Empire and later spread to the Eastern Slav lands of Kievan Rus'. Cyrillic eventually spread throughout most of the Slavic world to become the standard alphabet in the Eastern Orthodox Slavic countries. Hence, Cyril and Methodius' efforts also paved the way for the spread of Christianity throughout Eastern Europe.\n\nMethodius' body was buried in the main cathedral church of Great Moravia. Until today it remains an open question which city was capital of Great Moravia and therefore the place of Methodius' eternal rest remains unknown.\n\nThe Glagolitic and Cyrillic alphabets are the oldest known Slavic alphabets, and were created by the two brothers and their students, to translate the Bible and other texts into the Slavic languages. The early Glagolitic alphabet was used in Great Moravia between 863 (the arrival of Cyril and Methodius) and 885 (the expulsion of their students) for government and religious documents and books, and at the Great Moravian Academy (\"Veľkomoravské učilište\") founded by Cyril, where followers of Cyril and Methodius were educated, by Methodius himself among others. The alphabet has been traditionally attributed to Cyril. That attribution has been confirmed explicitly by the papal letter \"Industriae tuae\" (880) approving the use of Old Church Slavonic, which says that the alphabet was \"invented by Constantine the Philosopher\". The term invention need not exclude the possibility of the brothers having made use of earlier letters, but implies only that before that time the Slavic languages had no distinct script of their own.\n\nThe early Cyrillic alphabet was developed in the First Bulgarian Empire and later finalized and spread by disciples Kliment and Naum in the Ohrid and Preslav schools of Tsar Boris I of Bulgaria as a simplification of the Glagolitic alphabet which more closely resembled the Greek alphabet. It was developed by the disciples of Saints Cyril and Methodius at the Preslav Literary School at the end of the 9th century.\n\nAfter the death of Cyril, Clement of Ohrid accompanied Methodius from Rome to Pannonia and Great Moravia. After the death of Methodius in 885, Clement headed the struggle against the German clergy in Great Moravia along with Gorazd. After spending some time in jail, he was expelled from Great Moravia, and in 885 or 886 reached the borders of the Bulgarian Empire together with Naum of Preslav, Angelarius, and possibly Gorazd (according to other sources, Gorazd was already dead by that time). The four of them were afterwards sent to the Bulgarian capital of Pliska, where they were commissioned by Tsar Boris I of Bulgaria to instruct the future clergy of the state in the Slavonic language.\n\nAfter the adoption of Christianity in 865, religious ceremonies in Bulgaria were conducted in Greek by clergy sent from the Byzantine Empire. Fearing growing Byzantine influence and weakening of the state, Boris viewed the adoption of the Old Slavonic language as a way to preserve the political independence and stability of Bulgaria, so he established two literary schools (academies), in Pliska and Ohrid, where theology was to be taught in the Slavonic language. While Naum of Preslav stayed in Pliska working on the foundation of the Pliska Literary School, Clement was commissioned by Boris I to organise the teaching of theology to future clergymen in Old Church Slavonic at the Ohrid Literary School. For seven years (886-893) Clement taught some 3,500 students in the Slavonic language and the Glagolitic alphabet.\n\nThe canonization process was much more relaxed in the decades following Cyril's death than today. Cyril was regarded by his disciples as a saint soon after his death. His following spread among the nations he evangelized and subsequently to the wider Christian Church, and he was famous as a holy man, along with his brother Methodius. There were calls for Cyril's canonization from the crowds lining the Roman streets during his funeral procession. The brothers' first appearance in a papal document is in \"Grande Munus\" of Leo XIII in 1880. They are known as the \"Apostles of the Slavs\", and are still highly regarded by both Roman Catholic and Orthodox Christians. Their feast day is currently celebrated on 14 February in the Roman Catholic Church (to coincide with the date of St Cyril's death); on 11 May in the Eastern Orthodox Church (though for Eastern Orthodox Churches which use the Julian Calendar this is 24 May according to the Gregorian calendar); and on 7 July according to the old sanctoral calendar that existed before the revisions of the Second Vatican Council. The celebration also commemorates the introduction of literacy and the preaching of the gospels in the Slavonic language by the brothers. The brothers were declared \"Patrons of Europe\" in 1980.\n\nAccording to old Bulgarian chronicles, the day of the holy brothers was celebrated ecclesiastically as early as the 11th century. The first recorded secular celebration of Saints Cyril and Methodius' Day as the \"Day of the Bulgarian script\", as traditionally accepted by Bulgarian history, was held in the town of Plovdiv on 11 May 1851, when a local Bulgarian school was named \"Saints Cyril and Methodius\": both acts on the initiative of the prominent Bulgarian educator Nayden Gerov, although an Armenian traveller mentioned his visit to the \"celebration of the Bulgarian script\" in the town of Shumen on 22 May 1803.\n\nThe day is now celebrated as a public holiday in the following countries:\n\n\nThe saints' feast day is celebrated by the Eastern Orthodox Church on 11 May and by the Roman Catholic Church and the Anglican Communion on 14 February as \"Saints Cyril and Methodius Day\". The Lutheran Churches of Western Christianity commemorate the two saints either on 14 February or 11 May. The Byzantine Rite Lutheran Churches celebrate Saints Cyril and Methodius Day on 24 May.\n\nThe national library of Bulgaria in Sofia, Ss. Cyril and Methodius University of Skopje in the Republic of Macedonia, and St. Cyril and St. Methodius University of Veliko Tarnovo in Bulgaria and in Trnava, Slovakia, bear the name of the two saints. Faculty of Theology at Palacký University in Olomouc (Czech Republic), bears the name \"Saints Cyril and Methodius Faculty of Theology\". In the United States, SS. Cyril and Methodius Seminary in Orchard Lake, Michigan, bears their name.\n\nSaints Cyril and Methodius are the main patron saints of the Archdiocese of Ljubljana. Ljubljana Cathedral stands at Cyril and Methodius Square (). They are also patron saints of the Byzantine Catholic Eparchy of Košice (Slovakia) and the Slovak Greek Catholic Eparchy of Toronto.\n\nSt. Cyril Peak and St. Methodius Peak in the Tangra Mountains on Livingston Island, South Shetland Islands, in Antarctica are named for the brothers.\n\nSaint Cyril's remains are interred in a shrine-chapel within the Basilica di San Clemente in Rome. The chapel holds a Madonna by Sassoferrato.\n\nThe Basilica of SS. Cyril and Methodius in Danville, Pennsylvania, (the only Roman Catholic basilica dedicated to SS. Cyril and Methodius in the world) is the motherhouse chapel of the Sisters of SS. Cyril and Methodius, a Roman Catholic women's religious community of pontifical rite dedicated to apostolic works of ecumenism, education, evangelization, and elder care.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1151989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1151989", "title": "Tableware", "text": "Tableware\n\nTableware are the dishes or dishware used for setting a table, serving food and dining. It includes cutlery, glassware, serving dishes and other useful items for practical as well as decorative purposes. The quality, nature, variety and number of objects varies according to culture, religion, number of diners, cuisine and occasion. For example, Middle Eastern, Indian or Polynesian food culture and cuisine sometimes limits tableware to serving dishes, using bread or leaves as individual plates. Special occasions are usually reflected in higher quality tableware.\n\n\"Dinnerware\" is another term used to refer to tableware and \"crockery\" refers to porcelain and bone china produced by makers such as Sèvres in France, Meissen in Germany, Royal Copenhagen in Denmark, Royal Doulton in England, or Belleek Pottery in Northern Ireland. Sets of dishes are referred to as a table service, dinner service or service set. Table settings or place settings are the dishes, cutlery and glassware used for formal and informal dining. In Ireland such items are normally referred to as \"delph\", the word being an English language phonetic spelling of the word \"delft\", the town from which so much delftware came. Silver service or butler service are methods for a butler or waiter to serve a meal.\n\nSetting the table refers to arranging the tableware, including individual place settings for each diner at the table as well as decorating the table itself in a manner suitable for the occasion. Tableware and table decoration is typically more elaborate for special occasions. Unusual dining locations demand tableware be adapted.\n\nDishes are usually made of ceramic materials such as earthenware, stoneware, faience, bone china or porcelain. However, they can be made of other materials such as wood, pewter, silver, gold, glass, acrylic and plastic. Before it was possible to purchase mass-produced tableware, it was fashioned from available materials, such as wood. Industrialisation and developments in ceramic manufacture made inexpensive washable tableware available. It is sold either by the piece or as a matched set for a number of diners, normally four, six, eight, or twelve place settings. Large quantities are purchased for use in restaurants. Individual pieces, such as those needed as replacement pieces for broken dishes, can be procured from \"open stock\" inventory at shops, or from antique dealers if the pattern is no longer in production.\n\nPossession of tableware has to a large extent been determined by individual wealth; the greater the means, the higher was the quality of tableware that was owned and the more numerous its pieces. In the London of the 13th century, the more affluent citizens owned fine furniture and silver, \"while those of straiter means possessed only the simplest pottery and kitchen utensils.\" By the later 16th century, \"even the poorer citizens dined off pewter rather than wood\" and had plate, jars and pots made from \"green glazed earthenware\". The nobility often used their arms on heraldic china.\n\nTableware is generally the functional part of the settings on dining tables but great attention has been paid to the purely decorative aspects, especially when dining is regarded as part of entertainment such as in banquets given by important people or special events, such as State occasions. Table decoration may be ephemeral and consist of items made from confectionery or wax - substances commonly employed in Roman banqueting tables of the 17th century. During the reign of George III of the United Kingdom, ephemeral table decoration was done by men known as \"table-deckers\" who used sand and similar substances to create marmotinto works (sand painting) for single-use decoration. In modern times, ephemeral table decorations continue to be made from sugar or carved from ice.\n\nIn wealthy countries such as 17th century France, table decorations for the aristocracy were sometimes made of silver. One of the most famous table decorations is the \"Cellini Salt Cellar\". Ephemeral and silver table decorations were replaced with porcelain items after its reinvention in Europe in the 16th century.\n\nA table setting in Western countries is mainly in one of two styles: \"service à la russe\" (French for \"in the Russian style\"), where each course of the meal is brought out in specific order; and \"service à la française\" (French for \"in the French style\"), where all the courses for the meal are arranged on the table and presented at the same time that guests are seated. \"Service à la russe\" has become the custom in most restaurants, whereas \"service à la française\" is the norm in family settings.\n\nPlace settings for \"service à la russe\" dining are arranged according to the number of courses in the meal. The tableware is arranged in a particular order. With the first course, each guest at the table begins by using the tableware placed on the outside of place setting. As each course is finished the guest leaves the used cutlery on the used plate or bowl, which are removed from the table by the server. In some case, the original set is kept for the next course. To begin the next course, the diner uses the next item on the outside of the place setting, and so on. Forks are placed on the left of a dinner plate, knives to the right of the plate, and spoons to the outer right side of the place setting.\n\nItems of tableware include a variety of plates, bowls; or cups for individual diners and a range of serving dishes to transport the food from the kitchen or to separate smaller dishes. Plates include charger plates as well as specific dinner plates, lunch plates, dessert plates, salad plates or side plates. Bowls include those used for soup, cereal, pasta, fruit or dessert. A range of saucers accompany plates and bowls, those designed to go with teacups, coffee cups, demitasses and cream soup bowls. There are also individual covered casserole dishes.\n\nDishes come in standard sizes, which are set according to the manufacturer. They are similar throughout the industry. Plates are standardised in descending order of diameter size according to function. One standard series is charger (12 inches); dinner plate (10.5 inches); dessert plate (8.5 inches) salad plate (7.5 inches); side plate, tea plate (6.75 inches).\n\nGlasses and mugs of various types are an important part of tableware, as beverages are important parts of a meal. Vessels to hold alcoholic beverages such as wine, whether red, white, sparkling tend to be quite specialised in form, with for example Port wine glasses, beer glasses, brandy balloons, aperitif and liqueur glasses all having different shapes. Water glasses, juice glasses and hot chocolate mugs are also differentiated. Their appearance as part of the tableware depends on the meal and the style of table arrangement.\n\nTea and coffee tend to involve strong social rituals and so teacups and, coffee cups (including demitasse cups) have a shape that depends on the culture and the social situation in which the drink is taken.\n\nCutlery is an important part of tableware. A basic formal place setting will usually have a dinner plate at the centre, resting on a charger. The rest of the place setting depends upon the first course, which may be soup, salad or fish.\n\nIn either arrangement, the napkin may either rest folded underneath the forks, or it may be folded and placed on the dinner plate.\n\nWhen more courses are being served, place settings may become more elaborate and cutlery more specialised. Examples include fruit spoon or fruit knife, cheese knife, and pastry fork. Other types of cutlery, such as boning forks, were used when formal meals included dishes that have since become less common. Carving knives and forks are used to carve roasts at the table.\n\nA wide range of serving dishes are used to transport food from kitchen to table or to serve it at table, in order to make food service easier and cleaner or more efficient and pleasant. Serving dishes include: butter dishes; casseroles; fruit bowls; ramekins or lidded serving bowls; compotes; pitchers or jugs; platters, salvers, and trays; salt and pepper shakers or salt cellars; sauce or gravy boats; tureens and tajines; vegetable or salad bowls.\n\nA range of items specific to the serving of tea or coffee also have long cultural traditions. They include teapots and coffee pots as well as samovars, sugar bowls; milk or cream jugs.\n\nPlace markers are used to designate assigned seats to guests. They are typically used at large formal functions such as weddings, banquets for dignitaries, politicians or diplomats as well as on special occasions such as large children's parties. Some are collectible\n\nChinese table settings are traditional in style. Table setting practices in Japan and other parts of East Asia have been influenced by Chinese table setting customs. The emphasis in Chinese table settings is on displaying each individual food in a pleasing way, usually in separate bowls or dishes. Formal table settings are based upon the arrangements used in a family setting, although they can become extremely elaborate with many dishes. Serving bowls and dishes are brought to the table, where guests can choose their own portions. Formal Chinese restaurants often use a large turning wheel in the centre of the table to rotate food for easier service.\n\nIn a family setting, a meal typically includes a \"fan\" dish, which constitutes the meal's base (much like bread forms the base of various sandwiches), and several accompanying mains, called \"cai\" dish (\"choi\" or \"seoung\" in Cantonese). More specifically, \"fan\" usually refers to cooked rice, but can also be other staple grain-based foods. If the meal is a light meal, it will typically include the base and one main dish. The base is often served directly to the guest in a bowl, whereas main dishes are chosen by the guest from shared serving dishes on the table.\n\nAn \"elaborate\" formal meal would include the following place setting:\n\nJapanese ceramic tableware is an industry that is many centuries old. Unlike in Western cultures, where tableware is often produced and bought in matching sets, Japanese tableware is set on the table so that each dish complements the type of food served in it. Since Japanese meals normally include several small amounts of each food per person, this means that each person has a place setting with several different small dishes and bowls for holding individual food and condiments. The emphasis in a Japanese table setting is on enhancing the appearance of the food, which is partially achieved by showing contrasts between the items. Each bowl and dish may have a different shape, colour or pattern.\n\nA basic complete place setting for one person in Japan would include the following:\n\nNot all of these plates and bowls would be necessary for one meal. A rice bowl, a soup bowl, two or three small dishes with accompanying foods, and two or three condiment dishes for person would be typical. Various serving bowls and platters would also be set on a table for a typical meal, along with a soy sauce cruet, a small pitcher for tempura or other sauce, and a tea setting of tea pot, tea cups and tea cup saucers.\n\nTableware for special circumstances has to be adapted. Dining in the outdoors, for example, whether for recreational purposes, as on a picnic or as part of a journey, project or mission requires specialised tableware. It must be portable, more robust and if possible, lighter in weight than tableware used indoors. It is usually carefully packed for transportation to the place where it will be used.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32716591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32716591", "title": "The Romance of Yachting", "text": "The Romance of Yachting\n\nThe Romance of Yachting (full title: The Romance of Yachting: Voyage The First) is an 1848 work by Joseph C. Hart published by Harper and Brothers. The work is considered notable for being the first work to claim that William Shakespeare was not the true author of the plays that are attributed to him The work was for a long time overlooked in the Shakespeare authorship question debate with an article in the \"Chambers's Edinburgh Journal\" generally being treated by all authorities as the first work that questioned whether Shakespeare was the true author. References to \"The Romance of Yachting\" first appeared in \"The Bibliography of the Bacon-Shakespeare Literature\". Despite its title, the book has little to say about yachting and has been described as a 'kind of horn book of digression'. Wyman characterise the work as a 'gossipy account of a voyage to Spain'.\n\n"}
{"id": "54417816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54417816", "title": "Timeline of LGBT Jewish history", "text": "Timeline of LGBT Jewish history\n\nThis is a timeline of LGBT Jewish history, which consists of events at the intersection of Judaism and queer people.\n\n\n\"::... Prohibited homosexual activity includes any non-platonic physical contact; even \"yichud\" (seclusion) with someone of the same gender is forbidden for homosexually active individuals. ...\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46991934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46991934", "title": "Timeline of Libyan insurgency", "text": "Timeline of Libyan insurgency\n"}
{"id": "62653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=62653", "title": "Trabzon", "text": "Trabzon\n\nTrabzon (), historically known as Trebizond, is a city on the Black Sea coast of northeastern Turkey and the capital of Trabzon Province. Trabzon, located on the historical Silk Road, became a melting pot of religions, languages and culture for centuries and a trade gateway to Persia in the southeast and the Caucasus to the northeast. The Venetian and Genoese merchants paid visits to Trebizond during the medieval period and sold silk, linen and woolen fabric; the Republic of Genoa had an important merchant colony within the city called Leonkastron that played a role to Trebizond similar to the one Galata played to Constantinople (modern Istanbul). Trabzon formed the basis of several states in its long history and was the capital city of the Empire of Trebizond between 1204 and 1461. During the early modern period, Trabzon, because of the importance of its port, again became a focal point of trade to Persia and the Caucasus.\n\nThe Turkish name of the city is Trabzon. It is historically known in English as Trebizond. The first recorded name of the city is Τραπεζοῦς (\"Trapezous\"), referencing the table-like central hill between the Zağnos (İskeleboz) and Kuzgun streams on which it was founded (\"τράπεζα\" meant \"table\" in Ancient Greek; note the table on the coin in the figure.) In Latin, Trabzon was called \"Trapezus\", which is a latinization of its ancient Greek name. Both in Pontic Greek and Modern Greek, it is called Τραπεζούντα (\"Trapezounta\"). In Ottoman Turkish and Persian, it is written as طربزون. During Ottoman times, \"Tara Bozan\" was also used. Some western geographers used this name instead of the Latin \"Trebizond\". In Laz it is known as ტამტრა (\"T'amt'ra\") or \"T'rap'uzani\", in Georgian it is ტრაპიზონი (\"T'rap'izoni\") and in Armenian it is Տրապիզոն \"Trapizon\". The 19th-century Armenian travelling priest Byjiskian called the city by other, native names, including \"Hurşidabat\" and \"Ozinis\". Other versions of the name, which have incidentally been used in English literature as well, include: \"Trebizonde\" (Fr.), \"Trapezunt\" (German), \"Trebisonda\" (Sp.), \"Trapesunta\" (It.),\"Trapisonda\", \"Tribisonde\", \"Terabesoun\", \"Trabesun\", \"Trabuzan\", \"Trabizond\" and \"Tarabossan\".\n\nBefore the city was founded as a Greek colony the area was dominated by Colchian (Caucasian) and Chaldian (Anatolian) tribes. It is possible that the settlement origins of Trabzon go back to these tribes. The Hayasa, who had been in conflict with the Central-Anatolian Hittites in the 14th century BCE, are believed to have lived in the area south of Trabzon. Later Greek authors mentioned the Macrones and the Chalybes as native peoples. One of the dominant Caucasian groups to the east were the Laz, who were part of the monarchy of the Colchis, together with other related Georgian peoples.\n\nAccording to Greek sources the city was founded in classical antiquity in 756 BCE as Τραπεζοῦς (\"Trapezous\"), by Milesian traders from Sinope. It was one of a number (about ten) of Milesian \"emporia\" or trading colonies along the shores of the Black Sea. Others included Abydos and Cyzicus in the Dardanelles, and nearby Kerasous. Like most Greek colonies, the city was a small enclave of Greek life, and not an empire unto its own, in the later European sense of the word. As a colony Trapezous initially paid tribute to Sinope, but early banking (money-changing) activity is suggested occurring in the city already in the 4th century BCE, according to a silver drachma coin from Trapezus in the British Museum, London. Cyrus the Great added the city to the Achaemenid Empire, and was possibly the first ruler to consolidate the eastern Black Sea region into a single political entity (a satrapy).\n\nTrebizond's trade partners included the Mossynoeci. When Xenophon and the Ten Thousand mercenaries were fighting their way out of Persia, the first Greek city they reached was Trebizond (Xenophon, \"Anabasis\", 5.5.10). The city and the local Mossynoeci had become estranged from the Mossynoecian capital, to the point of civil war. Xenophon's force resolved this in the rebels' favor, and so in Trebizond's interest.\n\nUp until the conquests of Alexander the Great the city remained under the dominion of the Achaemenids. While the Pontus was not directly affected by the war, its cities gained independence as a result of it. Local ruling families continued to claim partial Persian heritage, and Persian culture had some lasting influence on the city; the holy springs of mt. Minthrion to the east of the old town were devoted to the Persian-Anatolian Greek god Mithra. In the 2nd century BCE the city with its natural harbours was added to the Kingdom of Pontus by Pharnaces I. Mithridates VI Eupator made it the home port of the Pontic fleet, in his quest to remove the Romans from Anatolia.\n\nAfter the defeat of Mithridates in 66 BCE the city was first handed to the Galatians, but it was soon returned to the grandson of Mithradates, and subsequently became part of the new client Kingdom of Pontus. When the kingdom was finally annexed to the Roman province of Galatia two centuries later, the fleet passed to new commanders, becoming the \"Classis Pontica\". The city received the status of civitas libera, extending it judicial autonomy and the right to mint its own coin. Trabzon gained importance for its access to roads leading over the Zigana Pass to the Armenian frontier or the upper Euphrates valley. New roads were constructed from Persia and Mesopotamia under the rule of Vespasian. In the next century, the emperor Hadrian commissioned improvements to give the city a more structured harbor. The emperor visited the city in the year 129 as part of his inspection of the eastern border (limes). A mithraeum now serves as a crypt for the church and monastery of Panagia Theoskepastos (\"Kızlar Manastırı\") in nearby Kizlara, east of the citadel and south of the modern harbor.\nTrebizond was greatly affected by two events over the following centuries: in the civil war between Septimius Severus and Pescennius Niger, the city suffered for its support of the latter, and in 257 the city was pillaged by the Goths, despite reportedly being defended by \"10,000 above its usual garrison\", and being defended by two bands of walls.\n\nAlthough Trebizond was rebuilt after being pillaged by the Goths in 257 and the Persians in 258, the city did not soon recover. Only in the reign of Diocletian appears an inscription alluding to the restoration of the city; Ammianus Marcellinus could only write of Trebizond that it was \"not an obscure town.\" Christianity had reached Trebizond by the third century, for during the reign of Diocletian occurred the martyrdom of Eugenius and his associates Candidius, Valerian, and Aquila. Eugenius had destroyed the statue of Mithras which overlooked the city from Mount Minthrion (Boztepe), and became the patron saint of the city after his death. Early Christians sought refuge in the Pontic Mountains south of the city, where they established Vazelon Monastery in 270 AD and Sumela Monastery in 386 AD. As early as the First Council of Nicea, Trebizond had its own bishop. Subsequently, the Bishop of Trebizond was subordinated to the Metropolitan Bishop of Poti. Then during the 9th century, Trebizond itself became the seat of the Metropolitan Bishop of Lazica.\n\nBy the time of Justinian, the city served as an important base in his Persian Wars, and Miller notes that a portrait of the general Belisarius \"long adorned the church of St. Basil.\" An inscription above the eastern gate of the city, commemorated the reconstruction of the civic walls following an earthquake at Justinian's expense. At some point before the 7th century the university (Pandidakterion) of the city was reestablished with a quadrivium curriculum. The university drew students not just from the Byzantine Empire, but from Armenia as well.\n\nThe city regained importance when it became the seat of the theme of Chaldia. Trebizond also benefited when the trade route regained importance in the 8th to 10th centuries; 10th-century Muslim authors note that Trebizond was frequented by Muslim merchants, as the main source transshipping Byzantine silks into eastern Muslim countries. According to the 10th century Arab geographer Abul Feda it was regarded as being largely a Lazian port. The Italian maritime republics such as the Republic of Venice and in particular the Republic of Genoa were active in the Black Sea trade for centuries, using Trabzon as an important seaport for trading goods between Europe and Asia. Some of the Silk Road caravans carrying goods from Asia stopped at the port of Trebizond, where the European merchants purchased these goods and carried them to the port cities of Europe with ships. This trade provided a source of revenue to the state in the form of custom duties, or \"kommerkiaroi\", levied on the goods sold in Trebizond. The Greeks protected the coastal and inland trade routes with a vast network of garrison forts.\n\nFollowing the Byzantine defeat at the Battle of Manzikert in 1071, Trebizond came under Seljuk rule. This rule proved transient when an expert soldier and local aristocrat, Theodore Gabras took control of the city from the Turkish invaders, and regarded Trebizond, in the words of Anna Comnena, \"as a prize which had fallen to his own lot\" and ruled it as his own kingdom. Supporting Comnena's assertion, Simon Bendall has identified a group of rare coins he believes were minted by Gabras and his successors. Although he was killed by the Turks in 1098, other members of his family continued his de facto independent rule into the next century.\n\nThe Empire of Trebizond was formed after Georgian expedition in Chaldia, commanded by Alexios Komnenos a few weeks before the sack of Constantinople. Located at the far northeastern corner of Anatolia, it was the longest surviving of the Byzantine successor states. Byzantine authors, such as Pachymeres, and to some extent Trapezundines such as Lazaropoulos and Bessarion, regarded the Trebizond Empire as being no more than a Lazian border state. Thus from the point of view of the Byzantine writers connected with the Lascaris and later with the Palaiologos, the rulers of Trebizond were not emperors.\nGeographically, the Empire of Trebizond consisted of little more than a narrow strip along the southern coast of the Black Sea, and not much further inland than the Pontic Mountains. However, the city gained great wealth from the taxes it levied on the goods traded between Persia and Europe via the Black Sea. The Mongol siege of Baghdad in 1258 diverted more trade caravans towards the city. Genoese and to a lesser extent Venetian traders regularly came to Trabzon. To secure their part of the Black Sea trade, the Genoese bought the coastal fortification \"Leonkastron\", just west of the winter harbour, in the year 1306.\n\nOne of the most famous persons to have visited the city in this period was Marco Polo, who ended his overland return journey at the port of Trebizond, and sailed to his hometown Venice with a ship; passing by Constantinople (Istanbul) on the way, which was retaken by the Byzantines in 1261. A year earlier, in 1260, Niccolò and Maffeo Polo (the father and uncle of Marco Polo) were residing in Constantinople, then the capital of the Latin Empire. They foresaw a political change, liquidated their assets into jewels and moved away. Their decision proved wise, as Constantinople was recaptured in 1261 by Michael VIII Palaiologos, the ruler of the Empire of Nicaea, who promptly burned the Venetian quarter in the city and reestablished the Byzantine Empire. Captured Venetian citizens in Constantinople were blinded, while many of those who managed to escape perished aboard overloaded refugee ships fleeing to other Venetian colonies in the Aegean Sea.\nTogether with Persian goods, Italian traders brought stories about the city to Western Europe. Trebizond played a mythical role in European literature of the late middle-ages and the Renaissance. Miguel de Cervantes and François Rabelais gave their protagonists the desire to possess the city. Next to literature, the legendary history of the city - and that of the Pontus in general - also influenced the creation of paintings, theatre plays and operas in Western Europe throughout the following centuries.\n\nThe city also played a role in the early Renaissance; The western takeover of Constantinople, which formalized Trebizond's political independence, also led Byzantine intellectuals to seek refuge in the city. Especially Alexios II of Trebizond and his grandson Alexios III were patrons of the arts and sciences. After the great city fire of 1310, the ruined university was reestablished. As part of the university Gregory Choniades opened a new academy of astronomy, which housed the best observatory outside Persia. Choniades brought with him the works of Shams al-Din al-Bukhari, Nasir al-Din al-Tusi and Abd al-Rahman al-Khazini from Tabriz, which he translated into Greek. These works later found their way to western Europe, together with the astrolabe. The observatory Choniades built would become known for its accurate solar eclipse predictions, but was probably used mostly for astrological purposes for the emperor and/or the church.\n\nThe Black Death arrived at the city late 1346, probably via Kaffa. At that time the local aristocracy was engaged in the Trapezuntine Civil War. Constantinople remained the Byzantine capital until it was conquered by the Ottoman Sultan Mehmed II in 1453, who also conquered Trebizond eight years later, in 1461.\n\nIts demographic legacy endured for several centuries after the Ottoman conquest in 1461, as a substantial number of Greek Orthodox inhabitants, usually referred to as Pontic Greeks, continued to live in the area during Ottoman rule, up until 1923, when they were deported to Greece. A few thousand Greek Muslims still live in the area, mostly in the Çaykara-Of dialectical region to the southeast of Trabzon. Most are Sunni-Muslim, while there are some recent converts in the city and possibly a few Crypto-Christians in the Tonya/Gümüşhane area to the southwest of the city. Compared to most previously Greek cities in Turkey, a large amount of its Greek Byzantine architectural heritage survives as well.\n\nThe last Emperor of Trebizond, David, surrendered the city to Sultan Mehmed II of the Ottoman Empire in 1461. Following this takeover, Mehmed II sent many Turkish settlers into the area, but the old ethnic Greek, Laz and Armenian communities remained. According to the Ottoman tax books (\"tahrir defterleri\"), the total population of adult males in the city was 1,473 in the year 1523.<ref name=\"Modern Times page 27/28\">\"The Armenian People from Ancient to Modern Times\", Richard G. Hovannisian, page 27/28, 2004</ref> Approximately 85% of them (1,252 adult males) were Christian, 13% of whom (197 adult males) were Armenian, and 15% of them (221 adult males) were Muslim. However, a large portion of the local Christians were Islamized and Turkified by the end of the 17th century, according to a research by Prof. Halil İnalcık on the tax books (\"tahrir defterleri\") of the Ottoman Empire. Trabzon was sanjak centre in Rum Eyalet (1461–1514) and (1520–1535), Erzincan-Bayburt eyalet (1514–1517), Anadolu Eyalet (1517–1520) and Erzurum Eyalet (1535–1598).\n\nTrabzon was the capital of the Ottoman Eyalet of Trebizond (1598–1867) and later of the Ottoman Vilayet of Trebizond (1867–1923) in the northeastern part of Anatolia. During the reign of Sultan Bayezid II, his son Prince Selim (later Sultan Selim I) was the sancakbeyi of Trabzon, and Selim I's son Suleiman the Magnificent was born in Trabzon on November 6, 1494. The Ottoman government often appointed local Chepni and Laz beys as the regional beylerbey. It is also recorded that some Bosniak beys were also appointed by the Sublime Porte as the regional beylerbeyi in Trabzon. The Beylerbeylik of Trabzon (\"Trabzon Beylerbeyliği\") had always sent troops for the Ottoman campaigns in Europe during the 16th and 17th centuries.\nTrabzon had a wealthy merchant class during the late Ottoman period, and the local Christian minority had a substantial influence in terms of culture, economy and politics. A number of European consulates were opened in the city due to its importance in regional trade and commerce. In the first half of the 19th century Trabzon even became the main port for Persian exports. However, the opening of the Suez Canal greatly diminished the international trading position of the city. In the last decades of the 19th century the city saw some demographic changes. Many residents from the wider region (mostly Christians, but also some Jews and Greek or Turkish speaking muslims) started to migrate to the Crimea and southern Ukraine, in search for farmland or employment in one of the booming cities along the northern and eastern coasts of the Black Sea. Among these migrants were the grandparents of Bob Dylan and Greek politicians and arists. At the same time, thousands of Muslim refugees from the Caucasus arrived in the city, especially after 1864, in what is known as the Circassian genocide.\n\nNext to Constantinople, Smyrna and Selanik, Trabzon was one of the cities where western cultural and technological innovations were first introduced to the Ottoman Empire. In 1835, the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions opened the Trebizond Mission station that it occupied from 1835 to 1859 and from 1882 to at least 1892. Hundreds of schools were constructed during the first half of the 19th century, giving the region one of the highest literacy rates of the empire. The city got a post office in 1845. New churches and mosques were built in the second half of the 19th century, as well as the first theater, public and private printing houses, multiple photo-studios and banks. The oldest known photographs of the city center date from the 1860s and depict one of the last camel trains from Persia.\n\nBetween one and two thousand Armenians are believed to have been killed in the Trebizond vilajet during the Hamidian massacres of 1895. While this number was low in comparison to other Ottoman provinces, its impact on the Armenian community in the city was large. Many prominent Armenian residents, among them scholars, musicians, photographers and painters, decided to migrate towards the Russian Empire or France. The large Greek population of the city was not affected by the massacre. Due to the high number of Western-Europeans in the city, news from the region was being reported on in many European newspapers. These western newspapers were in turn also very popular among the residents of the city.\n\nIn 1901 the harbour was equipped with cranes by Stothert and Pitt of Bath in England. In 1912 the Sümer Opera House was opened on the central Meydan square, being one of the first in the empire. The city lost many young male citizens at the Battle of Sarikamish in the winter of 1914–15. The coastal region between the city and the Russian frontier was the site of key battles between the Ottoman and Russian armies during the Trebizond Campaign, part of the Caucasus Campaign of World War I. A bombardment of the city in 1915 by the Russian navy cost the lives of 1300 citizens.\n\nIn July 1915 most of the adult male Armenians of the city were marched off south in five convoys, towards the mines of Gümüşhane, never to be seen again. Other victims of the Armenian Genocide were reportedly taken out to sea in boats that were then capsized. After the genocide, Trabzon was one of the locations of subsequent trials (see Trabzon during the Armenian Genocide). The Trabzon trials reported Armenians having been drowned in the Black Sea.\n\nThe Russian army landed at Atina, east of Rize on March 4, 1916. Lazistan Sanjak fell within two days. However, due to heavy guerrilla resistance around Of and Çaykara some 50 km to the east of Trabzon, it took a further 40 days for the Russian army to advance west. The Ottoman administration of Trabzon foresaw the fall of the city and called for a meeting with community leaders, where they handed control of the city to Greek metropolitan bishop Chrysantos Philippidis. Chrysantos promised to protect the Muslim population of the city. Ottoman forces retreated from Trabzon, and on April 15 the city was taken without a fight by the Russian Caucasus Army under command of Grand Duke Nicholas and Nikolai Yudenich. Many adult Turkish males left the city out of fear for reprisals, even though mayor Chrysantos included them in his administration. According to some sources the Russians banned Muslim mosques, and forced Turks, who were the largest ethnic group living in the city, to leave Trabzon. However, already during the Russian occupation many Turks who had fled to surrounding villages started to return to the city, and mayor Chrysantos helped them to re-establish their facilities such as schools, to the dismay of the Russian governor. During the Russian Revolution of 1917 Russian soldiers in the city turned to rioting, with officers commandeering Trebizonian ships to flee the scene. The Russian Army ultimately retreated from the city and the rest of eastern and northeastern Anatolia.\n\nDuring the Turkish War of Independence several Christian Pontic Greek communities in the Trebizond vilajet rebelled against the new army of Mustafa Kemal (notably in Bafra and Santa), but when nationalist Greeks came to Trabzon to proclaim revolution, they were not received with open arms by the local Pontic Greek population of the city. At the same time the Muslim population of the city, remembering their protection under Greek mayor Crhysantos, protested the arrest of prominent Christians. Liberal delegates of Trabzon opposed the election of Mustafa Kemal as the leader of the Turkish revolution at the Erzurum Congress. The governor and mayor of Trabzon were appalled by the violence against Ottoman Greek subjects, and the government of Trabzon thus refused arms to Mustafa Kemal's henchman Topal Osman, who was responsible for mass murders in the western Pontus. Osman was forced out of the city by armed Turkish port-workers. Following the war and the annulment of the Treaty of Sèvres (1920), which was replaced by the Treaty of Lausanne (1923), Trabzon again became a part of Turkey. The efforts of the pro-Ottoman, anti-nationalist population of Trabzon only postponed the inevitable, because the national governments of Turkey and Greece agreed to a mutual forced population exchange. This exchange included well over one hundred thousand Greeks from Trabzon and the vicinity, to the relatively new Greek state. During the war Trabzon parliamentarian Ali Şükrü Bey was one of the leading figures of the first Turkish opposition party. Through his newspaper \"Tan\", Şükrü and his colleges publicized their critiques of the Kemalist government, such as its violence towards Greeks during the population exchange.\nTopal Osman would eventually murder parliamentarian Şükrü for his criticism of the nationalist government of Mustafa Kemal. Ali Şükrü Bey, who had studied in the United Kingdom, is seen as a hero by the people of Trabzon, while in neighboring Giresun there is a statue of his murderer Topal Osman.\n\nDuring World War II shipping activity was limited because the Black Sea had again become a war zone. Hence, the most important export products, tobacco and hazelnut, could not be sold and living standards degraded.\n\nAs a result of the general development of the country, Trabzon has developed its economic and commercial life. The coastal highway and a new harbour have increased commercial relations with central Anatolia, which has led to some growth. However, progress has been slow in comparison to the western and the southwestern parts of Turkey.\n\nTrabzon is famous throughout Turkey for its anchovies called \"hamsi\", which are the main meal in many restaurants in the city. Major exports from Trabzon include hazelnuts and tea.\n\nThe city still has a sizable community of Greek-speaking Muslims, most of whom are originally from the vicinities of Tonya, Sürmene and Çaykara. However, the Pontic Greek language (known as Romeiaka or Ποντιακά, \"Pontiaka\") is spoken mostly by the older generations.\n\nTrabzon Province has a total area of and is bordered by the provinces of Rize, Giresun and Gümüşhane. The total area is 22.4% plateau and 77.6% hills. The Pontic Mountains pass through the Trabzon Province.\n\nTrabzon used to be an important reference point for navigators in the Black Sea during harsh weather conditions. The popular expression \"perdere la Trebisonda\" (losing Trebizond) is still commonly used in the Italian language to describe situations in which the sense of direction is lost. The Italian maritime republics such as Venice and in particular Genoa were active in the Black Sea trade for centuries.\n\nTrabzon has four lakes: Uzungöl, Çakırgöl, Sera and Haldizen Lakes. There are several streams, but no rivers in Trabzon.\n\nTrabzon has a climate typical of the Black Sea region with plentiful precipitation. Under the Köppen climate classification, it has a humid subtropical climate (Köppen: \"Cfa\") Summers are warm and humid, and the average maximum temperature is around in August. Winters are cool and damp, and the lowest average minimum temperature is around in January. Trabzon's summers are warmer than oceanic classifications, but the narrow fluctuations in temperature renders a significant influence from the sea. As with other major cities on the Black Sea coast of Turkey, Trabzon is situated right on the waterfront, thus allowing for the additional 1–2 degrees Celsius enough to surpass the threshold to be classified as subtropical. In comparison, only 1 or 2 percent of the province is classified as subtropical, the majority being oceanic (Köppen: Cfb) followed by humid continental climate (Köppen: Dfb), due to the immediate elevation increase starting from the coast, a typical characteristic of the Black Sea coast of Turkey. Trabzon's weather station also sees tendencies of a Mediterranean climate (Köppen: Csa), but with only one month below 40 mm rainfall in summer it just fails to qualify.\n\nPrecipitation is heaviest in autumn and winter, with a marked reduction in the summer months, a microclimatic condition of the city center compared to the rest of the region. Snowfall is quite common between the months of December and March, snowing for a week or two, and it can be heavy once it snows.\n\nThe water temperature, like in the rest of the Black Sea coast of Turkey, is always cool and fluctuates between and throughout the year.\n\nAs of 1920, the port at Trabzon was considered \"the most important of the Turkish Black Sea ports\" by the British. It traded as far as Tabriz and Mosul. As of 1911, the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey signed an agreement to develop a harbor at the port. When the Russians occupied Trabzon, a mole was built. They built a breakwater and were responsible for creating an extended pier, making loading and unloading easier. In 1920, Trabzon produced linen cloth, silver filagree, tanning and small amounts of cotton, silk and wool. Tobacco and hazelnuts were exported. The tobacco produced in Trabzon was called \"Trebizond-Platana\". It was described as having \"large leaves and a bright colour.\" Trabzon was known for producing poor quality cereals, most which were grown for local use.\n\nTrabzon produced a white green bean, which was sold in Europe. It was, as of 1920, the only vegetable exported out of the province. Poultry farming was also popular in Trabzon. Sericulture was seen in the area before 1914. The area produced copper, silver, zinc, iron and manganese. Copper was kept for local use by coppersmiths. During the Balkan Wars production ceased due to poor exportation and fuel supplies.\n\nTrabzon Airport opened in 1957.\n\nThe current ethnic background of the people of Trabzon is mostly Turkish. There are also descendants of Circassian muhajiris in the city, as well as smaller number of Laz people, Muslim Greeks (Romeyka-speakers) and Armenians (Hemshin). Local Turks are mostly of Chepni Turkmen origin. The main language of these ethnic groups is Turkish. Modern migration since the dissolution of the Soviet Union has brought a significant number of Russians, Ukrainians and people from the Caucasus (mostly Georgia) into the city. Russian language shops and facilities can be found in the town.\n\nPontic Greek has been spoken in the region since early antiquity. The local dialect developed along its own lines and is today partly intelligible to speakers of Standard Greek. It was spoken mainly by a Greek Orthodox multi-ethnic population up to the population exchange; nearly all speakers of this local variant of Pontic Greek are now Muslims. A very similar dialect is spoken by a community of about 400 speakers, descendants of Christians from the Of valley now living in Greece in the village of Nea Trapezounta (New Trebizond), today part of Katerini, Central Macedonia.\n\nLaz people, who are aboriginal to this area, also live in Trabzon. Numerous villages inside and out of Trabzon of the Laz date back as early as the period of Queen Tamar's rule (Georgian: თამარი, also transliterated as T'amar or Thamar; c. 1160 – 18 January 1213) in the newly unified Kingdom of Georgia. During the Queen's rule, sizeable groups of immigrating Georgians moved to Trabzon where they continue to preserve their native tongue. There was an Armenian community in Trebizond as early as the 7th century.\n\nDuring the 13th and 14th centuries, numerous Armenian families migrated there from Ani. Robert W. Edwards published part of an early 15th-century diary from the Castilian ambassador who visited Trabzon and compared the churches of the Greek and Armenian communities. It was stated by the ambassador that the Armenians, who were not well like by the Greeks, had a population large enough to support a resident bishop. According to Ronald C. Jennings, in the early 16th century, Armenians made up approximately 13 percent of the city's population. At present, Trabzon does not have an Armenian-speaking community.\n\nThe Chepni people, a tribe of Oghuz Turks who played an important role in the history of the eastern Black Sea area in the 13th and 14th centuries, live in the Şalpazarı (Ağasar valley) region of the Trabzon Province. Very little has been written on the Turkification of the area. There are no historical records of any considerable Turkish-speaking groups in the Trabzon area until the late 15th century, with the exception of the Chepnis. The original Greek (and in some regions Armenian) speakers imposed features from their mother language into the Turkish spoken in the region. Heath W. Lowry's work with Halil İnalcık on Ottoman tax books (\"Tahrir Defteri\") provides detailed demographic statistics for the city of Trabzon and its surrounding areas during the Ottoman period.\n\nIt is possible that the majority of the population of Trabzon and Rize (and other ancient Greek colonies in the Pontus region) — except up to the time of the Chepni Turk immigration waves — consisted of indigenous Caucasian tribes (the Colchians and the Laz) who had been partly Hellenized religiously and linguistically. Michael Meeker stresses the cultural resemblances (e.g. in village structure, house types, and pastoral techniques) between the Eastern Black Sea coast and the areas in the Caucasus proper.\n\nTrabzon has a number of tourist attractions, some of them dating back to the times of the ancient empires that once existed in the region. In the city itself, one can find a hub of shops, stalls and restaurants surrounding the \"Meydan\", a square in the center of the city, which includes a tea garden.\n\n\nOther sites of the city include: Fatih Mosque (originally the Panagia Khrysokephalos Church), Yeni Cuma Mosque (originally the Agios Eugenios Church), Nakip Mosque (originally the Agios Andreas Church), Hüsnü Köktuğ Mosque (originally the Agios Elevtherios Church), İskender Pasha Mosque, Semerciler Mosque, Çarşı Mosque, Gülbahar Hatun Mosque and Türbe (commissioned by Sultan Selim I), Kalepark (originally Leonkastron).\n\nWithin Trabzon Province, the main attractions are the Sümela Monastery (i. e. the Monastery of the Panagia Soumelá) and the Uzungöl lake. The monastery is built on the side of a very steep mountain overlooking the green forests below and is about south of the city. Uzungöl is known for its natural environment and scenery. Other sites of interest in the broader region include:\n\nFolk dancing is still very much in evidence in the Black Sea region. The \"Horon\" is a famous dance which is indigenous to the city and its surrounding area. It is performed by men, women, the young and elderly alike; in festivities, local weddings and harvest times. While similar to Russian Cossack dances in terms of vividness, the Trabzon folk dance is probably indigenous to the eastern Black Sea region, which has an impressive variety of folk music .\n\nThe people of Trabzon have a reputation for being religiously conservative and nationalist. Many Trabzonites generally show a strong sense of loyalty to their family, friends, religion and country. Atatürk selected his presidential guards from Trabzon and the neighbouring city of Giresun because of their fierce fighting ability and their loyalty.\n\nOutside of the relatively urban space of Trabzon proper, and within parts of it as well, rural traditions from the Black Sea village life are still thriving. These include traditional gender roles, social conservatism, hospitality and a willingness to help strangers; and all aspects, both positive and negative, of an agrarian lifestyle, such as hard work, poverty, strong family ties, and a closeness to nature.\n\nThe people of the eastern Black Sea region are also known for their wit and sense of humour; many jokes in Turkey are told about the natives of the Black Sea region \"Karadeniz fıkraları\" (Black Sea jokes). The character \"Temel\", a universal buffoon figure found in many cultures, forms an important part of the Turkish oral tradition.\n\nThe city's profile was raised somewhat in the English-speaking world by Dame Rose Macaulay's last novel, \"The Towers of Trebizond\" (1956), which is still in print.\n\nBlack Sea Technical University in Trabzon hosts students from all over Turkey, especially from the Black Sea and East Anatolian regions, as well as students from the Turkic states in Central Asia.\n\nHistorically the city was a center of Greek culture and education and from 1683 to 1921, a teachers' college operated known as Phrontisterion of Trapezous, which provided a major impetus for the rapid expansion of Greek education throughout the region. The building of this institution (built in 1902) still remains the most impressive Pontic Greek monument in the city and today hosts the Turkish school \"Anadolu Lisesi\".\n\nTrabzon's regional cuisine is traditionally reliant on fish, especially \"hamsi\" (fresh European Anchovy similar to the British Sprat or American Smelt). Trabzon meets 20% of the total fish production in Turkey. Regional dishes include the \"Akçaabat köfte\" (spicy lamb meatball from the Akçaabat district), \"Karadeniz pidesi\" (canoe shaped pita bread, often filled with ground beef, cheese and eggs), \"kuymak\" (a Turkish fondue made with cornmeal, fresh butter and cheese), \"Vakfıkebir ekmeği\" (large country-style bread), \"Tonya tereyağı\" (Tonya butter), \"tava mısır ekmeği\" (deep-dish corn bread) and \"kara lahana çorbası\" (bean and cabbage soup). \"Taflan kavurması\" is a cherry laurel dish served with onions and olive oil. Trabzon is also famous for its hazelnuts. The Black Sea region of Turkey is the world's largest producer of cherry and hazelnut; and a large production area of tea; all of which play an important role in the local cuisine.\n\nFootball is the most popular sport in Trabzon. The city's top sports club, Trabzonspor, was until 2010 the only Turkish football club in Anatolia to win the Süper Lig (six times), which was previously (until Trabzonspor's first championship title in the 1975–76 season) won only by the \"Big Three\" clubs of Istanbul, namely Galatasaray, Fenerbahçe and Beşiktaş. Due to Trabzonspor's success, the decades-old term \"Big Three\" which defined the most successful football clubs in Turkey had to be modified into the \"Big Four\". \nTrabzonspor is also one of the most successful Turkish clubs in the European Cups, managing to beat numerous prominent teams such as Barcelona, Inter, Liverpool, Aston Villa and Olympique Lyonnais. Renowned former players of Trabzonspor include Şenol Güneş, Lars Olsen and Shota Arveladze.\n\nTrabzon hosted the First Edition of the Black Sea Games in July 2007 and the 2011 European Youth Summer Olympic Festival.\n\nTrabzon is twinned with:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32898963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32898963", "title": "Treatment of slaves in the United States", "text": "Treatment of slaves in the United States\n\nThe treatment of slaves in the United States varied by time and place, but was generally brutal and degrading. Whipping and sexual abuse, including rape, were common.\n\nTeaching slaves to read was discouraged or (depending upon the state) prohibited, so as to hinder aspirations for escape or rebellion. In response to slave rebellions such as the Haitian Revolution, the 1811 German Coast Uprising, a failed uprising in 1822 organized by Denmark Vesey, and Nat Turner's slave rebellion in 1831, some states prohibited slaves from holding religious gatherings without a white person present, for fear that such meetings could facilitate communication and lead to rebellion.\n\nSlaves were punished by whipping, shackling, beating, mutilation, branding and/or imprisonment. Punishment was most often meted out in response to disobedience or perceived infractions, but masters or overseers sometimes abused slaves to assert dominance. Pregnancy was not a barrier to punishment; methods were devised to administer lashings without harming the baby. Slave masters would dig a hole big enough for the woman's stomach to lie in and proceed with the lashings. But such \"protective\" steps gave neither expectant slave mothers nor their unborn infants much real protection against grave injury or death from excess zeal or number of lashes inflicted, as one quote by ex-captive Moses Grandy took note: \n\nOne of my sisters was so severely punished in this way, that labour was brought on, and the child born in the field. This very overseer, Mr. Brooks, killed in this manner a girl named Mary: her [parents] were in the field at the time. He also killed a boy about twelve years old. He had no punishment, or even trial, for either [murder].\n\nThe mistreatment of slaves frequently included rape and the sexual abuse of women. The sexual abuse of slaves was partially rooted in historical Southern culture and its view of the enslaved as property. After 1662, when Virginia adopted the legal doctrine \"partus sequitur ventrem\", sexual relations between white men and black women were regulated by classifying children of slave mothers as slaves regardless of their father's race or status. Particularly in the Upper South, a population developed of mixed-race (mulatto) offspring of such unions, although white Southern society claimed to abhor miscegenation and punished sexual relations between white women and black men as damaging to racial purity.\n\nFrederick Law Olmsted visited Mississippi in 1853 and wrote:\nA cast mass of the slaves pass their lives, from the moment they are able to go afield in the picking season till they drop worn out in the grave, in incessant labor, in all sorts of weather, at all seasons of the year, without any other change or relaxation than is furnished by sickness, without the smallest hope of any improvement either in their condition, in their food, or in their clothing, which are of the plainest and coarsest kind, and indebted solely to the forbearance or good temper of the overseer for exception from terrible physical suffering.\n\nAn 1850 publication provided slaveholders with guidance on how to produce the \"ideal slave\":\n\nAccording to historians David Brion Davis and Eugene Genovese, treatment of slaves was harsh and inhumane. During work and outside of it, slaves suffered physical abuse, since the government allowed it. Treatment was usually harsher on large plantations, which were often managed by overseers and owned by absentee slaveholders. Small slaveholders worked together with their slaves and sometimes treated them more humanely.\n\nBesides slaves' being vastly overworked, they suffered brandings, shootings, \"floggings,\" and even worse punishments. Flogging was a term often used to describe the average lashing or whipping a slave would receive for misbehaving. Many times a slave would also simply be put through \"wanton cruelties\" or unprovoked violent beatings or punishments.\n\nAfter 1820, in response to the inability to legally import new slaves from Africa following prohibition of the international slave trade, some slaveholders improved the living conditions of their slaves, to influence them not to attempt escape.\n\nSome slavery advocates asserted that many slaves were content with their situation. African-American abolitionist J. Sella Martin countered that the apparent contentment was a psychological reaction to dehumanizing brutality, such as witnessing their spouses sold at auction or their daughters raped.\n\nSlaveholders feared slave rebellions and attempts of escape. Most of them sought to minimize slaves' exposure to the outside world to reduce the risk of rebellion. The desired result was to eliminate slaves' dreams and aspirations, restrict access \nto information about other slaves and rebellions, and stifle their mental faculties.\n\nEducation of slaves was generally discouraged for fear that knowledge and literacy would cause rebelliousness, as they might learn of the abolitionist movement and of the existence, in more northern states, of substantial groups of free negros. (See Education during the Slave Period.) During the mid-19th century, some states prohibited the education of slaves. In 1841, Virginia punished violations of this law by 20 lashes to the slave and a $100 fine to the teacher, and North Carolina by 39 lashes to the slave and a $250 fine to the teacher. In Kentucky, education of slaves was legal but almost nonexistent. Some Missouri slaveholders educated their slaves or permitted them to do so themselves. In Utah, slave owners were required to send black slaves to school for eighteen months between the ages of six and twenty years and Indian slaves for three months every year.\n\nIn 1740, following the Stono Rebellion, Maryland limited slaves' working hours to 15 per day in the Summer and 14 in the Winter, with no work permitted on Sunday. Historian Charles Johnson writes that such laws were not only motivated by compassion, but also by the desire to pacify slaves and prevent future revolts. Slave working conditions were often made worse by the plantation's need for them to work overtime to sustain themselves in regards to food and shelter. In Utah, slaves were required to work \"reasonable\" hours.\n\nThe quality of medical care to slaves is uncertain; some historians conclude that because slaveholders wished to preserve the value of their slaves, they received the same care. Others conclude that medical care was poor. A majority of plantation owners and doctors balanced a plantation need to coerce as much labor as possible from a slave without causing death, infertility, and a reduction in productivity; the effort by planters and doctors to provide sufficient living resources that enabled their slaves to remain productive and bear many children; the impact of diseases and injury on the social stability of slave communities; the extent to which illness and mortality of sub-populations in slave society reflected their different environmental exposures and living circumstances rather than their alleged racial characteristics. Slaves may have also provided adequate medical care to each other. Previous studies show that a slave-owner would care for his slaves through only \"prudence and humanity.\" Although conditions were so harsh for slaves, many slave-owners saw that it was in their best interest financially to see that each slave stayed healthy enough to maintain an active presence on the plantation. An ill slave meant less work force for the plantation which coerced some plantation owners to regularly have medical doctors monitor their slaves in an attempt to keep them healthy. Other slave-owners wishing to save money would often rely on their own self-taught remedies combine with any helpful knowledge of their wives to help treat the sickly. Older slaves and oftentimes grandparents of slave communities would pass down useful medical skills and remedies as well. Also, large enough plantations with owners willing to spend the money would often have specific infirmaries built to deal with the problems of slaves' health.\n\nAccording to Michael W. Byrd, a dual system of medical care provided poorer care for slaves throughout the South, and slaves were excluded from formal medical training. This meant that slaves were mainly responsible for their own care, a \"health subsystem\" that persisted long after slavery was abolished. Slaves took such an active role in the health care of their community that in 1748 Virginia prohibited them from advertising certain treatments.\n\nMedical care was usually provided by fellow slaves or by slaveholders and their families, and only rarely by physicians. Care for sick household members was mostly provided by women. Some slaves possessed medical skills, such as knowledge of herbal remedies and midwifery and often treated both slaves and non-slaves. Covey suggests that because slaveholders offered poor treatment, slaves relied on African remedies and adapted them to North American plants. Other examples of improvised health care methods included folk healers, grandmother midwives, and social networks such as churches, and, for pregnant slaves, female networks. Slave-owners would sometimes also seek healing from such methods in times of ill health. In Missouri, slaveholders generally provided adequate health care to their slaves, and were motivated by humanitarian concerns, maintenance of slaves' productivity, and protection of the owners' investment.\n\nResearchers performed medical experiments on slaves without consent, and frequently displayed slaves to illustrate medical conditions.\n\nDuring the early 17th century, some colonies permitted slaves who converted to Christianity to become free, but this possibility was eliminated by the mid 17th century.\n\nIn 1725 Virginia granted slaves the right to establish a church, leading to the establishment of the First Church of Colored Baptists. In many cases throughout the American South, slaves created hybrid forms of Christianity, mixing elements of traditional African religions with traditional as well as new interpretations of Christianity.\n\nSouth Carolina permitted law enforcement to disband any religious meeting where more than half the participants were black.\n\nMasters commonly paid slaves small bonuses at Christmas, and some slaveholders permitted them to keep earnings and gambling profits. One slave, Denmark Vesey, bought his freedom with a lottery prize. Slaves were often given low-quality goods by their masters, clothes made from rough cloth and shoes from old leather.\n\nRobert Fogel argued that the material conditions of slaves were better than those of free industrial workers. However, 58% of historians and 42% of economists surveyed disagreed with Fogel's proposition. Fogel's view was that, while slaves' living conditions were poor by modern standards, all workers during the first half of the 19th century were subject to hardship. He further stated that over the course of their lifetime, a typical slave field hand \"received\" about 90% of the income he produced.\n\nSlaves were legally considered non-persons unless they committed a crime. An Alabama court ruled that slaves \"are rational beings, they are capable of committing crimes; and in reference to acts which are crimes, are regarded as persons. Because they are slaves, they are incapable of performing civil acts, and, in reference to all such, they are things, not persons.\"\n\nSlaves were punished by whipping, shackling, hanging, beating, burning, mutilation, branding, rape, and imprisonment. Punishment was often meted out in response to disobedience or perceived infractions, but sometimes abuse was performed to re-assert the dominance of the master (or overseer) over the slave.\nThey were punished with knives, guns, field tools and nearby objects. The whip was the most common instrument used against a slave; one said \"The only punishment that I ever heard or knew of being administered slaves was whipping\", although he knew several who were beaten to death for offenses such as \"sassing\" a white person, hitting another \"negro\", \"fussing\" or fighting in quarters.\n\nSlaves who worked and lived on plantations were the most frequently punished. Punishment could be administered by the plantation owner or master, his wife, children or (most often) the overseer or driver.\n\nSlave overseers were authorized to whip and punish slaves. One overseer told a visitor, \"Some Negroes are determined never to let a white man whip them and will resist you, when you attempt it; of course you must kill them in that case.\" A former slave describes witnessing females being whipped: \"They usually screamed and prayed, though a few never made a sound.\" If the woman was pregnant, workers might dig a hole for her to rest her belly while being whipped. After slaves were whipped, overseers might order their wounds be burst and rubbed with turpentine and red pepper. An overseer reportedly took a brick, ground it into a powder, mixed it with lard and rubbed it all over a slave.\n\nA metal collar was put on a slave to remind him of his wrongdoing. Such collars were thick and heavy; they often had protruding spikes which made fieldwork difficult and prevented the slave from sleeping when lying down. Louis Cain, a former slave, describes seeing another slave punished: \"One nigger run to the woods to be a jungle nigger, but massa cotched him with the dog and took a hot iron and brands him. Then he put a bell on him, in a wooden frame what slip over the shoulders and under the arms. He made that nigger wear the bell a year and took it off on Christmas for a present to him. It sho' did make a good nigger out of him.\"\nSlaves were punished for a number of reasons: working too slowly, breaking a law (for example, running away), leaving the plantation without permission or insubordination. Myers and Massy describe the practices: \"The punishment of deviant slaves was decentralized, based on plantations, and crafted so as not to impede their value as laborers.\" Whites punished slaves publicly to set an example. A man named Harding describes an incident in which a woman assisted several men in a minor rebellion: \"The women he hoisted up by the thumbs, whipp'd and slashed her with knives before the other slaves till she died.\" Men and women were sometimes punished differently; according to the 1789 report of the Virginia Committee of the Privy Council, males were often shackled but women and girls were left free.\n\nThe branding of slaves for identification was common during the colonial era; however, by the nineteenth century it was used primarily as punishment. Mutilation (such as castration, or amputating ears) was a relatively common punishment during the colonial era and still used in 1830. Any punishment was permitted for runaway slaves, and many bore wounds from shotgun blasts or dog bites used by their captors.\n\nIn 1717, Maryland law provided that slaves were not entitled to a jury trial for a misdemeanor, and empowered county judges to impose a punishment of up to 40 lashes. In 1729, the colony passed a law permitting punishment for slaves including hanging, decapitation, and cutting the body into four quarters for public display.\n\nIn 1740, South Carolina passed a law prohibiting cruelty to slaves; however, slaves could still be killed under some circumstances. The anti-cruelty law prohibited cutting out the tongue, putting out the eye, castration, scalding, burning and amputating limbs, but permitted whipping, beating, putting in irons and imprisonment.\n\nIn 1852, Utah passed the Act in Relation to Service, which provided several protections for slaves. They were freed if the slave owner was found guilty of cruelty or abuse, or neglect to feed, clothe, or shelter the slave, or if there were any sexual intercourse between the master and the slave. The definition of cruelty was vague and hard to enforce, and in practice, slaves received similar treatment to those in the South.\n\nBy law, slaveholders could be fined for not punishing recaptured runaway slaves. Slave codes authorized, indemnified or required violence, and were denounced by abolitionists for their brutality. Both slaves and free blacks were regulated by the Black Codes, and their movements were monitored by slave patrols conscripted from the white population. The patrols were authorized to use summary punishment against escapees; in the process, they sometimes maimed or killed the escapees.\n\nHistorian Nell Irvin Painter and others have documented that Southern history went \"across the color line.\" Contemporary accounts by Mary Chesnut and Fanny Kemble (both married in the Deep South planter class) and accounts by former slaves gathered by the Works Progress Administration (WPA) attested to the abuse of women slaves by white owners and overseers.\n\nThe slave-owning colonies had laws governing the control and punishment of slaves which were known as slave codes. South Carolina established its slave code in 1712, based on the 1688 English slave code in Barbados. The South Carolina slave code was a model for other North American colonies. In 1770, Georgia adopted the South Carolina slave code and Florida adopted the Georgia code. The 1712 South Carolina slave code included the following provisions:\n\nThe South Carolina slave code was revised in 1739, with the following amendments:\n\nThe slave codes in the tobacco colonies (Delaware, Maryland, North Carolina and Virginia) were modeled on the Virginia code, established in 1667. The 1682 Virginia code included the following provisions:\n\nIn 1811, Arthur William Hodge was the first slaveholder executed for the murder of a slave in the British West Indies. However, he was not (as some have claimed) the first white person to have been executed for killing a slave. Records indicate at least two earlier incidents. On November 23, 1739, in Williamsburg, Virginia, two white men (Charles Quin and David White) were hanged for the murder of another white man's slave. On April 21, 1775, the \"Virginia Gazette\" in Fredericksburg reported that a white man (William Pitman) was hanged for the murder of his own slave.\n\nLaws punishing whites for punishing their slaves were weakly enforced or easily avoided. In \"Smith v. Hancock\", the defendant justified punishing his slave to a white jury; the slave was attending an unlawful meeting, discussed rebellion, refused to surrender and resisted the arresting officer by force.\n\nSlavery in the United States encompassed wide-ranging rape and sexual abuse. Many slaves fought back against sexual attacks, and some died resisting them; others were left with psychological and physical scars. \"Soul murder, the feeling of anger, depression and low self-esteem\" is how historian Nell Irvin Painter describes the effects of this abuse, linking it to slavery. Slaves regularly suppressed anger before their masters to avoid showing weakness.\n\nHarriet Jacobs said in her narrative that she believed her mistress was jealous of her master's sexual interest in her, the reason she did not try to protect her. Victims of abuse during slavery may have blamed themselves for the incidents, due to their isolation.\n\nRape laws in the south embodied a race-based double standard. Black men accused of rape during the colonial period were often punished with castration, and the penalty was increased to death during the antebellum period; however, white men could rape female slaves without fear of punishment. Men and boys were also sexually abused by slaveholders. Thomas Foster says that although historians have begun to cover sexual abuse during slavery, few focus on sexual abuse of men and boys because of the assumption that only enslaved women were victimized. Foster suggests that men and boys may have also been forced into unwanted sexual activity; one problem in documenting such abuse is that they, of course, did not bear mixed-race children. Both masters and mistresses were thought to have abused male slaves.\n\nAngela Davis contends that the systematic rape of female slaves is analogous to the medieval concept of \"droit du seigneur\", believing that the rapes were a deliberate effort by slaveholders to extinguish resistance in women and reduce them to the status of animals.\n\nThe sexual abuse of slaves was partially rooted in a patriarchal southern culture which treated all women, black and white, as property. Although southern mores regarded white women as dependent and submissive, black women were often consigned to a life of sexual exploitation. Racial purity was the driving force behind the southern culture's prohibition of sexual relations between white women and black men; however, the same culture protected sexual relations between white men and black women. The result was a number of mixed-race (mulatto) offspring. Many women were raped, and had little control over their families. Children, free women, indentured servants and men were not immune from abuse by masters and owners. Nell Irvin Painter also explains that the psychological outcome of such treatment often had the same results (\"soul murder\"). Children (especially young girls) were often subjected to sexual abuse by their masters, their masters' children and relatives. Similarly, indentured servants and slave women were often abused. Since these women had no control over where they went or what they did, their masters could manipulate them into situations of high risk (for instance, forcing them into a dark field or making them sleep in their master's bedroom to be available for service). Free (or white) women could charge their perpetrators with rape, but slave women had no legal recourse; their bodies legally belonged to their owners. This record has also given historians the opportunity to explore sexual abuse during slavery in populations other than enslaved women.\n\nIn 1662, the southern colonies adopted into law the principle of \"partus sequitur ventrem\", by which the children of slave women took the status of their mothers (regardless of paternity). This was a departure from English common law, which held that children took the status of their father. Some fathers freed their children, but many did not. The law relieved men of responsibility to support their children, and restricted the open secret of miscegenation to the slave quarters. However, Europeans and other visitors to the south noted the number of mixed-race slaves. During the 19th century Mary Chesnut and Fanny Kemble, whose husbands were planters, chronicled the disgrace of white men taking sexual advantage of slave women.\n\nSome women resisted reproduction in order to resist slavery. They found medicine or herbs to terminate pregnancies or practiced abstinence. For example, chewing on cotton root was one of the more popular methods to perform abortion and end a pregnancy. This method was often used as the plant was readily available, especially for the women who worked in cotton fields. Gossypol was one of the many substances found in all parts of the cotton plant, and it was described by scientists as 'poisonous pigment'. It appears to inhibit the development of sperm or restrict the mobility of the sperm. Also, it is thought to interfere with the menstrual cycle by restricting the release of certain hormones. Women's knowledge of different forms of contraception helped them control some factors in their life.\n\nBy resisting reproduction, enslaved women took control over their bodies and their lives. Richard Follet says:\n\nby consciously avoiding pregnancy or through gynecological resistance, black women reclaimed their own bodies, frustrated the planters' pro-natalist policies, and in turn defied white male constructions of their sexuality. Whether swallowing abortifacients such as calomel and turpentine or chewing on natural contraceptives like cotton roots or okra, slave women wove contraception and miscarriages through the dark fabric of slave oppositional culture.\n\nBy using various ways to resist reproduction, some women convinced their masters they could not bear children. Deborah Gray White cites several cases of women who were considered by their masters to be infertile during slavery. These women went on to have several healthy children after they were freed.\n\nOther slave women used abstinence. \"Slave men and women appear to have practised abstinence, often with the intention of denying their master any more human capital.\" It was not just women who resisted reproduction, in some instances men did also. An ex-slave, Virginia Yarbrough, explained how one slave woman persuaded the man that her master told her to live with to practice abstinence. After three months, the master realized that the couple were not going to produce any children, so he let her live with the man of her choice, and they had children. \"By abstaining from sexual intercourse, she was able to resist her master's wishes and live and have children with the man she loved.\"\n\nWomen resisted reproduction to avoid bringing children into slavery, and to deprive their owners of future property and profit. \"In addition to the labor they provided, slaves were a profitable investment: Their prices rose steadily throughout the antebellum era, as did the return that slave owners could expect when slaves reproduced.\" Liese M. Perrin writes, \"In avoiding direct confrontation, slave women had the potential to resist in a way which pierced the very heart of slavery- by defying white slave owners the labour and profits that their children would one day provide.\" Women knew that slave children were forced to start working at a very young age. Life was harsh under slavery, with little time for a mother and child to bond. Enslaved women and their children could be separated at any time. Women were forced to do heavy work even if pregnant. Sometimes this caused miscarriage or difficulties in childbirth. Richard Follett explains that \"heavy physical work undermines reproductive fitness, specifically ovarian function, and thus limits success in procreation.\" An enslaved woman carried her infant with her to field work, nursing it during brief breaks. For instance, in \"Freedom on My Mind\"', it is said that \"as an infant, he rode on his mother's back while she worked in the fields to nurse.\" Women's use of contraception was resistance and a form of strike, since slave women were expected to reproduce.\n\nDespite acts of resistance, many slave women had numerous children. Peter Kolchin notes that some historians estimate a birthrate of 7 children per slave woman during the antebellum era, which was an era of large families among free women as well.\n\nSlave women were unable to maintain African traditions, although some were carried on. African women were born/raised to give birth, there were no rituals or cultural customs. \"Under extreme conditions the desire and ability of women to have children is reduced\". Slavery removed everything that made them feel woman, motherly, African. A \"normal\" African family life was impossible; women were in the field most of the day and fathers were almost non-existent. In Africa, \"Motherhood was the fulfillment of female adulthood and fertility the African women's greatest gift\".\n\nSlave breeding was the attempt by a slave-owner to influence the reproduction of his slaves for profit. It included forced sexual relations between male and female slaves, encouraging slave pregnancies, sexual relations between master and slave to produce slave children and favoring female slaves who had many children.\n\nNobel economist Robert Fogel disagreed in his controversial 1970s work that slave-breeding and sexual exploitation destroyed black families. Fogel argued that since the family was the basic unit of social organization under slavery, it was in the economic interest of slaveholders to encourage the stability of slave families and most did so. Most slave sales were either of entire families, or of individuals at an age when it would have been normal for them to leave home. However, testimony from former slaves does not support Fogel's view. For instance, Frederick Douglass (who grew up as a slave in Maryland) reported the systematic separation of slave families and widespread rape of slave women to boost slave numbers. With the development of cotton plantations in the Deep South, planters in the Upper South frequently broke up families to sell \"surplus\" male slaves to other markets. In addition, court cases (such as those of Margaret Garner in Ohio or Celia, a slave in 19th-century Missouri, who killed her master when pregnant by him for the third time) dealt with women slaves who had been sexually abused by their masters.\n\nSlaves were predominantly male during the early colonial era, but the ratio of male to female slaves became more equal in later years. Under slavery, planters and other slaveholders owned, controlled and sold entire families of slaves. The slave population increased in the southern United States as native-born slaves produced large families. Slave women were at high risk for sexual abuse from slave owners and their sons, overseers, or other white men in power, as well as from male slaves.\n\nSlaves were at a continual risk of losing family members if their owners decided to sell them for profit, punishment or to pay debts. Slaveholders also made gifts of slaves to grown children (or other family members) as wedding settlements. They considered slave children ready to work and leave home as young as age 12 or 14. A few slaves retaliated by murdering their owners and overseers, burning barns, and killing horses. But work slowdowns were the most frequent form of resistance and hard to control. Slaves also \"walked away,\" going to the woods or a neighboring plantation for a while. Slave narratives by escaped slaves published during the 19th century often included accounts of families broken up and women sexually abused.\n\nDuring the early 1930s, members of the Federal Writers' Project interviewed former slaves and also made recordings of the talks (the only such records made). In 2007, the interviews were remastered, reproduced on CDs and published in book form in conjunction with the Library of Congress, Smithsonian Productions and a National Public Radio project. In the introduction to the oral history project (\"Remembering Slavery: African Americans Talk About Their Personal Experiences of Slavery and Emancipation\"), the editors wrote:\n\nAs masters applied their stamp to the domestic life of the slave quarter, slaves struggled to maintain the integrity of their families. Slaveholders had no legal obligation to respect the sanctity of the slave's marriage bed, and slave women— married or single – had no formal protection against their owners' sexual advances. ...Without legal protection and subject to the master's whim, the slave family was always at risk. \n\nThe book includes a number of examples of enslaved families who were torn apart when family members were sold out of state, and accounts of sexual violation of enslaved women by men in power.\n\nThe evidence of white men having sexual unions with slave women was obvious in the many mixed-race children who were born into slavery and part of many households. In some areas, such mixed-race families became the core of domestic and household servants, as at Thomas Jefferson's Monticello. Both his father-in-law and he took mixed-race slave women as concubines after being widowed; each man had six children by his slave. Jefferson's young concubine, Sally Hemings, was 3/4 white, the daughter of his father-in-law John Wayles and the half-sister of his late wife.\n\nBy the 19th century, popular Southern literature characterized female slaves as lustful and promiscuous \"Jezebels\" who shamelessly tempted white owners into sexual relations. This stereotype of the promiscuous slave was partially motivated by the need to rationalize the obvious sexual relations that took place between female slaves and white males, as evidenced by the children. The stereotype was reinforced by female slaves' working partially clothed, due to the hot climate. During slave auctions, females were sometimes displayed nude or only partially clothed. Edward Ball, in his \"Slaves in the Family\" (1995), noted that it was more often the planters' sons who took advantage of slave women before their legal marriages to white women, than did the senior planters.\n\nMany female slaves (known as \"fancy maids\") were sold at auction into concubinage or prostitution, which was called the \"fancy trade\". Concubine slaves were the only female slaves who commanded a higher price than skilled male slaves.\n\nDuring the early Louisiana colonial period, French men took wives and mistresses from the slaves; they often freed their children and, sometimes, their mistresses. A sizable class of free people of color developed in New Orleans, Mobile and outlying areas (such as Isle Brevelle). By the late 18th century white creole men of New Orleans, known as French Creoles, had a relatively formal system of \"plaçage\" among free women of color, which continued under Spanish rule. Mothers negotiated settlements (or dowries) for their daughters to be mistresses to white men. In some cases, young men took such mistresses before their marriages to white women; in others, they continued the relationship after marriage. They were known to pay for the education of their children (especially their sons, whom they sometimes sent to France for schooling and military service).\n\nThere was a growing feeling among whites that miscegenation was damaging to racial purity. Some segments of society began to disapprove of any sexual relationships between blacks and whites, whether slave or free, but particularly between white women and black men. In Utah, sexual relationships with a slave resulted in the slave being freed.\n\nThe children of white fathers and slave mothers were mixed-race slaves, whose appearance was generally classified as mulatto (this term originally meant a person with white and black parents, but then encompassed any mixed-race person). By the turn of the 19th century many mixed-race families in Virginia dated to colonial times; white women (generally indentured servants) had unions with slave and free African-descended men. Because of the mother's status, those children were born free and often married other free people of color.\n\nGiven the generations of interaction, an increasing number of slaves in the United States during the 19th century were of mixed race. In the United States, children of mulatto and black slaves were also generally classified as mulatto. With each generation, the number of mixed-race slaves increased. The 1850 census identified 245,000 slaves as mulatto; by 1860, there were 411,000 slaves classified as mulatto out of a total slave population of 3,900,000. As noted above, some mixed-race people won freedom from slavery or were born as free blacks.\n\nIf free (depending on state law), some mulattoes were legally classified as white because they had more than one-half to seven-eighths white ancestry. Questions of social status were often settled in court, but a person's acceptance by neighbors, fulfillment of citizen obligations and other aspects of social status were more important than lineage in determining \"whiteness\".\n\nNotable examples of mostly-white children born into slavery were the \"natural\" children of Thomas Jefferson by his mixed-race slave Sally Hemings, who was three-quarters white by ancestry. Since 2000 historians have widely accepted Jefferson's paternity; the change in scholarship has been reflected in exhibits at Monticello and in recent books about Jefferson and his era. Some historians, however, continue to disagree with this conclusion.\n\nSpeculation exists on the reasons George Washington freed his slaves in his will. One theory posits that the slaves included two half-sisters of his wife, Martha Custis. Those mixed-race slaves were born to slave women owned by Martha's father, and were regarded within the family as having been sired by him. Washington became the owner of Martha Custis' slaves (under Virginia law) when he married her, and faced the ethical conundrum of owning his wife's sisters.\n\nAs in Thomas Jefferson's household, the use of lighter-skinned slaves as household servants was not simply a choice related to skin color. Sometimes planters used mixed-race slaves as house servants (or favored artisans) because they were their children, or otherwise relatives. Six of Jefferson's later household slaves were the grown children of his father-in-law John Wayles and his slave mistress Betty Hemings. Half-siblings of Jefferson's wife Martha, they were inherited by her (with Betty Hemings and other slaves) a year after her marriage to Jefferson following the death of her father. At that time, some of the Hemings-Wayles children were very young; Sally Hemings was an infant. They were trained as domestic and skilled servants, and headed the slave hierarchy at Monticello.\n\nSince 2000, historians have widely accepted that the widowed Jefferson had a nearly four-decade relationship with Sally Hemings, the youngest daughter of Wayles and Betty. It was believed to have begun when he was US minister in Paris, and she was part of his household. Sally was nearly 25 years younger than his late wife; Jefferson had six children of record with her, four of whom survived. Jefferson had his three mixed-race sons by Hemings trained as carpenters (a skilled occupation) so they could earn a living after he freed them when they came of age. Three of his four children by Hemings (including his daughter Harriet, the only slave woman he freed) \"passed\" into white society as adults because of their appearance. Some historians disagree with these conclusions about Jefferson's paternity; see Jefferson-Hemings controversy.\n\nPlanters with mixed-race children sometimes arranged for their education (occasionally in northern schools) or apprenticeship in skilled trades and crafts. Others settled property on them, or otherwise passed on social capital by freeing the children and their mothers. While fewer in number than in the Upper South, free blacks in the Deep South were often mixed-race children of wealthy planters and sometimes benefited from transfers of property and social capital. Wilberforce University, founded by Methodist and African Methodist Episcopal (AME) representatives in Ohio in 1856 for the education of African-American youth, was during its early history largely supported by wealthy southern planters who paid for the education of their mixed-race children. When the American Civil War broke out, the majority of the school's 200 students were of mixed race and from such wealthy Southern families. The college closed for several years before the AME Church bought and operated it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20697852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20697852", "title": "Valentin Falin", "text": "Valentin Falin\n\nValentin Mikhaylovich Falin () (3 April 1926 – 22 February 2018) was a Soviet diplomat and politician.\n\nFalin was born in Leningrad. He graduated from the Moscow State Institute of International Relations in 1950.\n\nFrom 1951 to 1958 he worked at the USSR Foreign Ministry. From 1971 to 1978 he was the Ambassador of the USSR to the Federal Republic of Germany. In 1978 he was appointed First Deputy Chief of the International Information Department of the Central Committee of the CPSU, a post he left in January 1983 for personal reasons. From 1982 to 1986 he was a political observer, then editor and chief editor in the newspaper Izvestia.\n\nOn March 10, 1986, Falin was elected by the Council of Sponsors of the Novosti Press Agency to the position of chairman of the APN board. In 1988–1991 he was the Chief of the International Department of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. Following the failed 1991 coup against Mikhail Gorbachev, he left government service.\n\nIn 1992 to 2000 he worked at Institut für Friedensforschung und Sicherheitspolitik an der Universität Hamburg in Germany. He returned to Russia in 2000 and lived in Moscow.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10887124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10887124", "title": "Warnings (book)", "text": "Warnings (book)\n\nWarnings: Finding Cassandras to Stop Catastrophes is a book published by HarperCollins Ecco and written by former United States intelligence and counterterrorism official Richard A. Clarke, and former White House National Security Council Director, and U.S. and UN senior diplomat RP Eddy. The book offers a framework, \"The Cassandra Coefficient,\" to help determine which warnings decisions makers should look into more closely, and if some warnings deserve less attention. The case studies range from national security, to threatening technologies, to the global economy, to climate change and speculates on various potential threats to civilization.\n\nThe authors cover seven case studies in which data driven, proven, credible experts specifically warned of a pending catastrophe, were ignored by the decision makers, and the disaster subsequently struck just as predicted. The authors call these seers, \"Cassandras\" after the Greek mythological figure who could foretell disaster but was cursed to never be believed. The authors propose a method to separate accurate predictions of danger from inaccurate doomsayers, \"The Cassandra Coefficient.\" They then investigate experts who today are warning of future disasters—the threats from artificial intelligence, bio-hacking, mutating viruses, and more—and whose calls are not being heeded.\n\nThe concluding chapter describes how individuals and organizations can employ the Cassandra Coefficient, hedging and \"sentinel intelligence,\" to watch potential disasters so as to not be surprised by them, and expend the necessary remediative resources only when necessary.\n\n\"Warnings\" was lauded and recommended by President Bill Clinton (who noted it on his recommended reading list),\nHenry Kissinger, Sen. George Mitchell, Gen. Michael Hayden, Commissioner William J. Bratton, Lawrence Wright, and other notables.\n\nIt was a Publishers Weekly best seller, and the #1 Best Seller on Amazon in four categories. The book enjoyed positive reviews in \"The Washington Times\",\nReal Clear Life, Kirkus, and on Good Morning America, the Tucker Carlson Show on Fox, and numerous other venues. \n\nIn her book \"What Happened\" and subsequent interviews, Hillary Clinton referred to \"Warnings\" and noted the value the Cassandra Theory could have had to encourage decision makers to take the Russian hacking threat in the 2016 U.S. Presidential election more seriously.\n"}
