{"id": "85023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85023", "title": "Appalachian Mountains", "text": "Appalachian Mountains\n\nThe Appalachian Mountains (), often called the Appalachians, are a system of mountains in eastern North America. The Appalachians first formed roughly 480 million years ago during the Ordovician Period. They once reached elevations similar to those of the Alps and the Rocky Mountains before experiencing natural erosion. The Appalachian chain is a barrier to east-west travel, as it forms a series of alternating ridgelines and valleys oriented in opposition to most highways and railroads running east-west.\n\nDefinitions vary on the precise boundaries of the Appalachians. The United States Geological Survey (USGS) defines the \"Appalachian Highlands\" physiographic division as consisting of thirteen provinces: the Atlantic Coast Uplands, Eastern Newfoundland Atlantic, Maritime Acadian Highlands, Maritime Plain, Notre Dame and Mégantic Mountains, Western Newfoundland Mountains, Piedmont, Blue Ridge, Valley and Ridge, Saint Lawrence Valley, Appalachian Plateaus, New England province, and the Adirondack areas. A common variant definition does not include the Adirondack Mountains, which geologically belong to the Grenville Orogeny and have a different geological history from the rest of the Appalachians.\n\nThe mountain range is mostly in the United States (U.S.) but it extends into southeastern Canada, forming a zone from wide, running from the island of Newfoundland southwestward to Central Alabama in the United States. The range covers parts of the islands of Saint Pierre and Miquelon, which comprise an overseas territory of France. The system is divided into a series of ranges, with the individual mountains averaging around . The highest of the group is Mount Mitchell in North Carolina at , which is the highest point in the United States east of the Mississippi River.\n\nThe term \"Appalachian\" refers to several different regions associated with the mountain range. Most broadly, it refers to the entire mountain range with its surrounding hills and the dissected plateau region. The term is often used more restrictively to refer to regions in the central and southern Appalachian Mountains, usually including areas in the states of Kentucky, Tennessee, Virginia, Maryland, West Virginia, and North Carolina, as well as sometimes extending as far south as northern Alabama, Georgia and western South Carolina, and as far north as Pennsylvania, southern Ohio, and parts of southern upstate New York.\n\nThe Ouachita Mountains in Arkansas and Oklahoma were originally part of the Appalachians as well but became disconnected through geologic history.\n\nWhile exploring inland along the northern coast of Florida in 1528, the members of the Narváez expedition, including Álvar Núñez Cabeza de Vaca, found a Native American village near present-day Tallahassee, Florida whose name they transcribed as \"Apalchen\" or \"Apalachen\" . The name was soon altered by the Spanish to Apalachee and used as a name for the tribe and region spreading well inland to the north. Pánfilo de Narváez's expedition first entered Apalachee territory on June 15, 1528, and applied the name. Now spelled \"Appalachian,\" it is the fourth-oldest surviving European place-name in the US.\n\nAfter the de Soto expedition in 1540, Spanish cartographers began to apply the name of the tribe to the mountains themselves. The first cartographic appearance of \"Apalchen\" is on Diego Gutierrez's map of 1562; the first use for the mountain range is the map of Jacques le Moyne de Morgues in 1565.\n\nThe name was not commonly used for the whole mountain range until the late 19th century. A competing and often more popular name was the \"Allegheny Mountains\", \"Alleghenies\", and even \"Alleghania\". In the early 19th century, Washington Irving proposed renaming the United States either Appalachia or Alleghania.\n\nIn U.S. dialects in the southern regions of the Appalachians, the word is pronounced , with the third syllable sounding like \"latch\". In northern parts of the mountain range, it is pronounced or ; the third syllable is like \"lay\", and the fourth \"chins\" or \"shins\". There is often great debate between the residents of the regions as to which pronunciation is the more correct one. Elsewhere, a commonly accepted pronunciation for the adjective \"Appalachian\" is , with the last two syllables \"-ian\" pronounced as in the word \"Romanian\".\n\nThe whole system may be divided into three great sections:\n\nThe Adirondack Mountains in New York are sometimes considered part of the Appalachian chain but, geologically speaking, are a southern extension of the Laurentian Mountains of Canada.\n\nIn addition to the true folded mountains, known as the ridge and valley province, the area of dissected plateau to the north and west of the mountains is usually grouped with the Appalachians. This includes the Catskill Mountains of southeastern New York, the Poconos in Pennsylvania, and the Allegheny Plateau of southwestern New York, western Pennsylvania, eastern Ohio and northern West Virginia. This same plateau is known as the Cumberland Plateau in southern West Virginia, eastern Kentucky, western Virginia, eastern Tennessee, and northern Alabama.\n\nThe dissected plateau area, while not actually made up of geological mountains, is popularly called \"mountains,\" especially in eastern Kentucky and West Virginia, and while the ridges are not high, the terrain is extremely rugged. In Ohio and New York, some of the plateau has been glaciated, which has rounded off the sharp ridges and filled the valleys to some extent. The glaciated regions are usually referred to as hill country rather than mountains.\n\nThe Appalachian region is generally considered the geographical divide between the eastern seaboard of the United States and the Midwest region of the country. The Eastern Continental Divide follows the Appalachian Mountains from Pennsylvania to Georgia.\n\nThe Appalachian Trail is a hiking trail that runs all the way from Mount Katahdin in Maine to Springer Mountain in Georgia, passing over or past a large part of the Appalachian system. The International Appalachian Trail is an extension of this hiking trail into the Canadian portion of the Appalachian range in New Brunswick and Quebec.\n\nThe Appalachian belt includes, with the ranges enumerated above, the plateaus sloping southward to the Atlantic Ocean in New England, and south-eastward to the border of the coastal plain through the central and southern Atlantic states; and on the north-west, the Allegheny and Cumberland plateaus declining toward the Great Lakes and the interior plains. A remarkable feature of the belt is the longitudinal chain of broad valleys, including The Great Appalachian Valley, which in the southerly sections divides the mountain system into two unequal portions, but in the northernmost lies west of all the ranges possessing typical Appalachian features, and separates them from the Adirondack group. The mountain system has no axis of dominating altitudes, but in every portion, the summits rise to rather uniform heights, and, especially in the central section, the various ridges and intermontane valleys have the same trend as the system itself. None of the summits reaches the region of perpetual snow.\n\nMountains of the Long Range in Newfoundland reach heights of nearly . In the Chic-Choc and Notre Dame mountain ranges in Quebec, the higher summits rise above in elevation. Isolated peaks and small ranges in Nova Scotia and New Brunswick vary from . In Maine several peaks exceed , including Mount Katahdin at . In New Hampshire, many summits rise above , including Mount Washington in the White Mountains at , Adams at , Jefferson at , Monroe at , Madison at , Lafayette at , and Lincoln at . In the Green Mountains the highest point, Mt. Mansfield, is in elevation; others include Killington Peak at , Camel's Hump at , Mt. Abraham at , and a number of other heights exceeding .\n\nIn Pennsylvania, there are over sixty summits that rise over ; the summits of Mount Davis and Blue Knob rise over . In Maryland, Eagle Rock and Dans Mountain are conspicuous points reaching and respectively. On the same side of the Great Valley, south of the Potomac, are the Pinnacle and Pidgeon Roost . In West Virginia, more than 150 peaks rise above , including Spruce Knob , the highest point in the Allegheny Mountains. A number of other points in the state rise above . Snowshoe Mountain at Thorny Flat and Bald Knob are among the more notable peaks in West Virginia.\n\nThe Blue Ridge Mountains, rising in southern Pennsylvania and there known as South Mountain, attain elevations of about in that state. South Mountain achieves its highest point just below the Mason-Dixon line in Maryland at Quirauk Mountain and then diminishes in height southward to the Potomac River. Once in Virginia the Blue Ridge again reaches and higher. In the Virginia Blue Ridge, the following are some of the highest peaks north of the Roanoke River: Stony Man , Hawksbill Mountain , Apple Orchard Mountain and Peaks of Otter . South of the Roanoke River, along the Blue Ridge, are Virginia's highest peaks including Whitetop Mountain and Mount Rogers , the highest point in the Commonwealth.\n\nChief summits in the southern section of the Blue Ridge are located along two main crests—the Western or Unaka Front along the Tennessee-North Carolina border and the Eastern Front in North Carolina—or one of several \"cross ridges\" between the two main crests. Major subranges of the Eastern Front include the Black Mountains, Great Craggy Mountains, and Great Balsam Mountains, and its chief summits include Grandfather Mountain near the Tennessee-North Carolina border, Mount Mitchell in the Blacks, and Black Balsam Knob and Cold Mountain in the Great Balsams. The Western Blue Ridge Front is subdivided into the Unaka Range, the Bald Mountains, the Great Smoky Mountains, and the Unicoi Mountains, and its major peaks include Roan Mountain in the Unakas, Big Bald and Max Patch in the Bald Mountains, Clingmans Dome , Mount Le Conte , and Mount Guyot in the Great Smokies, and Big Frog Mountain near the Tennessee-Georgia-North Carolina border. Prominent summits in the cross ridges include Waterrock Knob () in the Plott Balsams. Across northern Georgia, numerous peaks exceed , including Brasstown Bald, the state's highest, at and Rabun Bald.\n\nThere are many geological issues concerning the rivers and streams of the Appalachians. In spite of the existence of the Great Appalachian Valley, many of the main rivers are transverse to the mountain system axis. The drainage divide of the Appalachians follows a tortuous course which crosses the mountainous belt just north of the New River in Virginia. South of the New River, rivers head into the Blue Ridge, cross the higher Unakas, receive important tributaries from the Great Valley, and traversing the Cumberland Plateau in spreading gorges (water gaps), escape by way of the Cumberland River and the Tennessee River rivers to the Ohio River and the Mississippi River, and thence to the Gulf of Mexico. In the central section, north of the New River, the rivers, rising in or just beyond the Valley Ridges, flow through great gorges to the Great Valley, and then across the Blue Ridge to tidal estuaries penetrating the coastal plain via the Roanoke River, James River, Potomac River, and Susquehanna River.\n\nIn the northern section the height of land lies on the inland side of the mountainous belt, and thus the main lines of drainage run from north to south, exemplified by the Hudson River. However, the valley through which the Hudson River flows was cut by the gigantic glaciers of the Ice Ages—the same glaciers that deposited their terminal moraines in southern New York and formed the east-west Long Island.\n\nA look at rocks exposed in today's Appalachian mountains reveals elongated belts of folded and thrust faulted marine sedimentary rocks, volcanic rocks and slivers of ancient ocean floor, which provides strong evidence that these rocks were deformed during plate collision. The birth of the Appalachian ranges, some 480 Ma, marks the first of several mountain-building plate collisions that culminated in the construction of the supercontinent Pangaea with the Appalachians near the center. Because North America and Africa were connected, the Appalachians formed part of the same mountain chain as the Little Atlas in Morocco. This mountain range, known as the Central Pangean Mountains, extended into Scotland, before the Mesozoic Era opening of the Iapetus Ocean, from the North America/Europe collision (See Caledonian orogeny).\n\nDuring the middle Ordovician Period (about 496–440 Ma), a change in plate motions set the stage for the first Paleozoic mountain-building event (Taconic orogeny) in North America. The once-quiet Appalachian passive margin changed to a very active plate boundary when a neighboring oceanic plate, the Iapetus, collided with and began sinking beneath the North American craton. With the birth of this new subduction zone, the early Appalachians were born. Along the continental margin, volcanoes grew, coincident with the initiation of subduction. Thrust faulting uplifted and warped older sedimentary rock laid down on the passive margin. As the mountains rose, erosion began to wear them down. Streams carried rock debris downslope to be deposited in nearby lowlands. The Taconic Orogeny was just the first of a series of mountain building plate collisions that contributed to the formation of the Appalachians, culminating in the collision of North America and Africa (see Alleghanian orogeny).\n\nBy the end of the Mesozoic Era, the Appalachian Mountains had been eroded to an almost flat plain. It was not until the region was uplifted during the Cenozoic Era that the distinctive topography of the present formed. Uplift rejuvenated the streams, which rapidly responded by cutting downward into the ancient bedrock. Some streams flowed along weak layers that define the folds and faults created many millions of years earlier. Other streams downcut so rapidly that they cut right across the resistant folded rocks of the mountain core, carving canyons across rock layers and geologic structures.\n\nThe Appalachian Mountains contain major deposits of anthracite coal as well as bituminous coal. In the folded mountains the coal is in metamorphosed form as anthracite, represented by the Coal Region of northeastern Pennsylvania. The bituminous coal fields of western Pennsylvania, western Maryland, southeastern Ohio, eastern Kentucky, southwestern Virginia, and West Virginia contain the sedimentary form of coal. The mountain top removal method of coal mining, in which entire mountain tops are removed, is currently threatening vast areas and ecosystems of the Appalachian Mountain region.\n\nThe 1859 discovery of commercial quantities of petroleum in the Appalachian Mountains of western Pennsylvania started the modern United States petroleum industry. Recent discoveries of commercial natural gas deposits in the Marcellus Shale formation and Utica Shale formations have once again focused oil industry attention on the Appalachian Basin.\n\nSome plateaus of the Appalachian Mountains contain metallic minerals such as iron and zinc.\n\nThe floras of the Appalachians are diverse and vary primarily in response to geology, latitude, elevation and moisture availability. Geobotanically, they constitute a floristic province of the North American Atlantic Region. The Appalachians consist primarily of deciduous broad-leaf trees and evergreen needle-leaf conifers, but also contain the evergreen broad-leaf American holly ('), and the deciduous needle-leaf conifer, the tamarack, or eastern larch (').\n\nThe dominant northern and high elevation conifer is the red spruce ('), which grows from near sea level to above above sea level (asl) in northern New England and southeastern Canada. It also grows southward along the Appalachian crest to the highest elevations of the southern Appalachians, as in North Carolina and Tennessee. In the central Appalachians it is usually confined above asl, except for a few cold valleys in which it reaches lower elevations. In the southern Appalachians, it is restricted to higher elevations. Another species is the black spruce ('), which extends farthest north of any conifer in North America, is found at high elevations in the northern Appalachians, and in bogs as far south as Pennsylvania.\n\nThe Appalachians are also home to two species of fir, the boreal balsam fir ('), and the southern high elevation endemic, Fraser fir ('). Fraser fir is confined to the highest parts of the southern Appalachian Mountains, where along with red spruce it forms a fragile ecosystem known as the Southern Appalachian spruce-fir forest. Fraser fir rarely occurs below , and becomes the dominant tree type at . By contrast, balsam fir is found from near sea level to the tree line in the northern Appalachians, but ranges only as far south as Virginia and West Virginia in the central Appalachians, where it is usually confined above asl, except in cold valleys. Curiously, it is associated with oaks in Virginia. The balsam fir of Virginia and West Virginia is thought by some to be a natural hybrid between the more northern variety and Fraser fir. While red spruce is common in both upland and bog habitats, balsam fir, as well as black spruce and tamarack, are more characteristic of the latter. However balsam fir also does well in soils with a pH as high as 6.\nEastern or Canada hemlock (') is another important evergreen needle-leaf conifer that grows along the Appalachian chain from north to south but is confined to lower elevations than red spruce and the firs. It generally occupies richer and less acidic soils than the spruce and firs and is characteristic of deep, shaded and moist mountain valleys and coves. It is, unfortunately, subject to the hemlock woolly adelgid ('), an introduced insect, that is rapidly extirpating it as a forest tree. Less abundant, and restricted to the southern Appalachians, is Carolina hemlock (\"\"). Like Canada hemlock, this tree suffers severely from the hemlock woolly adelgid.\n\nSeveral species of pines characteristic of the Appalachians are eastern white pine ('), Virginia pine ('), pitch pine ('), Table Mountain pine (') and shortleaf pine ('). Red pine (') is a boreal species that forms a few high elevation outliers as far south as West Virginia. All of these species except white pine tend to occupy sandy, rocky, poor soil sites, which are mostly acidic in character. White pine, a large species valued for its timber, tends to do best in rich, moist soil, either acidic or alkaline in character. Pitch pine is also at home in acidic, boggy soil, and Table Mountain pine may occasionally be found in this habitat as well. Shortleaf pine is generally found in warmer habitats and at lower elevations than the other species. All the species listed do best in open or lightly shaded habitats, although white pine also thrives in shady coves, valleys, and on floodplains.\n\nThe Appalachians are characterized by a wealth of large, beautiful deciduous broadleaf (hardwood) trees. Their occurrences are best summarized and described in E. Lucy Braun's 1950 classic, \"Deciduous Forests of Eastern North America\" (Macmillan, New York). The most diverse and richest forests are the mixed mesophytic or medium moisture types, which are largely confined to rich, moist montane soils of the southern and central Appalachians, particularly in the Cumberland and Allegheny Mountains, but also thrive in the southern Appalachian coves. Characteristic canopy species are white basswood ('), yellow buckeye ('), sugar maple ('), American beech ('), tuliptree ('), white ash (') and yellow birch ('). Other common trees are red maple ('), shagbark and bitternut hickories (') and black or sweet birch ('). Small understory trees and shrubs include flowering dogwood ('), hophornbeam ('), witch-hazel (') and spicebush ('). There are also hundreds of perennial and annual herbs, among them such herbal and medicinal plants as American ginseng ('), goldenseal ('), bloodroot (') and black cohosh (').\n\nThe foregoing trees, shrubs, and herbs are also more widely distributed in less rich mesic forests that generally occupy coves, stream valleys and flood plains throughout the southern and central Appalachians at low and intermediate elevations. In the northern Appalachians and at higher elevations of the central and southern Appalachians these diverse mesic forests give way to less diverse \"northern hardwoods\" with canopies dominated only by American beech, sugar maple, American basswood (\"\") and yellow birch and with far fewer species of shrubs and herbs.\n\nDryer and rockier uplands and ridges are occupied by oak-chestnut type forests dominated by a variety of oaks (' spp.), hickories (' spp.) and, in the past, by the American chestnut ('). The American chestnut was virtually eliminated as a canopy species by the introduced fungal chestnut blight ('), but lives on as sapling-sized sprouts that originate from roots, which are not killed by the fungus. In present-day forest canopies, chestnut has been largely replaced by oaks.\n\nThe oak forests of the southern and central Appalachians consist largely of black, northern red, white, chestnut and scarlet oaks (\" and \") and hickories, such as the pignut (\") in particular. The richest forests, which grade into mesic types, usually in coves and on gentle slopes, have dominantly white and northern red oaks, while the driest sites are dominated by chestnut oak, or sometimes by scarlet or northern red oaks. In the northern Appalachians the oaks, except for white and northern red, drop out, while the latter extends farthest north.\n\nThe oak forests generally lack the diverse small tree, shrub and herb layers of mesic forests. Shrubs are generally ericaceous, and include the evergreen mountain laurel ('), various species of blueberries (' spp.), black huckleberry ('), a number of deciduous rhododendrons (azaleas), and smaller heaths such as teaberry (') and trailing arbutus ('). The evergreen great rhododendron (') is characteristic of moist stream valleys. These occurrences are in line with the prevailing acidic character of most oak forest soils. In contrast, the much rarer chinquapin oak (\") demands alkaline soils and generally grows where limestone rock is near the surface. Hence no ericaceous shrubs are associated with it.\n\nThe Appalachian floras also include a diverse assemblage of bryophytes (mosses and liverworts), as well as fungi. Some species are rare and/or endemic. As with vascular plants, these tend to be closely related to the character of the soils and thermal environment in which they are found.\n\nEastern deciduous forests are subject to a number of serious insect and disease outbreaks. Among the most conspicuous is that of the introduced gypsy moth ('), which infests primarily oaks, causing severe defoliation and tree mortality. But it also has the benefit of eliminating weak individuals, and thus improving the genetic stock, as well as creating rich habitat of a type through accumulation of dead wood. Because hardwoods sprout so readily, this moth is not as harmful as the hemlock woolly adelgid. Perhaps more serious is the introduced beech bark disease complex, which includes both a scale insect (') and fungal components.\nDuring the 19th and early 20th centuries, the Appalachian forests were subject to severe and destructive logging and land clearing, which resulted in the designation of the national forests and parks as well many state protected areas. However, these and a variety of other destructive activities continue, albeit in diminished forms; and thus far only a few ecologically based management practices have taken hold.\n\nAppalachian bogs are boreal ecosystems, which occur in many places in the Appalachians, particularly the Allegheny and Blue Ridge subranges. Though popularly called bogs, many of them are technically fens.\n\nAnimals that characterize the Appalachian forests include five species of tree squirrels. The most commonly seen is the low to moderate elevation eastern gray squirrel ('). Occupying similar habitat is the slightly larger fox squirrel (') and the much smaller southern flying squirrel ('). More characteristic of cooler northern and high elevation habitat is the red squirrel ('), whereas the Appalachian northern flying squirrel (\"), which closely resembles the southern flying squirrel, is confined to northern hardwood and spruce-fir forests.\n\nAs familiar as squirrels are the eastern cottontail rabbit (') and the white-tailed deer ('). The latter in particular has greatly increased in abundance as a result of the extirpation of the eastern wolf (') and the cougar. This has led to the overgrazing and browsing of many plants of the Appalachian forests, as well as destruction of agricultural crops. Other deer include the moose ('), found only in the north, and the elk ('), which, although once extirpated, is now making a comeback, through transplantation, in the southern and central Appalachians. In Quebec, the Chic-Chocs host the only population of caribou (') south of the St. Lawrence River. An additional species that is common in the north but extends its range southward at high elevations to Virginia and West Virginia is the varying of snowshoe hare (\"). However, these central Appalachian populations are scattered and very small.\n\nAnother species of great interest is the beaver (\"), which is showing a great resurgence in numbers after its near extirpation for its pelt. This resurgence is bringing about a drastic alteration in habitat through the construction of dams and other structures throughout the mountains.\n\nOther common forest animals are the black bear ('), striped skunk ('), raccoon ('), woodchuck ('), bobcat ('), gray fox ('), red fox (') and in recent years, the coyote ('), another species favored by the advent of Europeans and the extirpation of eastern and red wolves. European boars were introduced in the early 20th century.\n\nCharacteristic birds of the forest are wild turkey ('), ruffed grouse ('), mourning dove ('), common raven ('), wood duck ('), great horned owl ('), barred owl ('), screech owl ('), red-tailed hawk ('), red-shouldered hawk ('), and northern goshawk (\"), as well as a great variety of \"songbirds\" (Passeriformes), like the warblers in particular.\n\nOf great importance are the many species of salamanders and, in particular, the lungless species (Family ') that live in great abundance concealed by leaves and debris, on the forest floor. Most frequently seen, however, is the eastern or red-spotted newt ('), whose terrestrial eft form is often encountered on the open, dry forest floor. It has been estimated that salamanders represent the largest class of animal biomass in the Appalachian forests. Frogs and toads are of lesser diversity and abundance, but the wood frog (') is, like the eft, commonly encountered on the dry forest floor, while a number of species of small frogs, such as spring peepers ('), enliven the forest with their calls. Salamanders and other amphibians contribute greatly to nutrient cycling through their consumption of small life forms on the forest floor and in aquatic habitats.\n\nAlthough reptiles are less abundant and diverse than amphibians, a number of snakes are conspicuous members of the fauna. One of the largest is the non-venomous black rat snake ('), while the common garter snake (') is among the smallest but most abundant. The American copperhead (') and the timber rattler (') are venomous pit vipers. There are few lizards, but the broad-headed skink ('), at up to in length, and an excellent climber and swimmer, is one of the largest and most spectacular in appearance and action. The most common turtle is the eastern box turtle ('), which is found in both upland and lowland forests in the central and southern Appalachians. Prominent among aquatic species is the large common snapping turtle (\"), which occurs throughout the Appalachians.\n\nAppalachian streams are notable for their highly diverse freshwater fish life. Among the most abundant and diverse are those of the minnow family (family Cyprinidae), while species of the colorful darters (\" spp.) are also abundant.\n\nA characteristic fish of shaded, cool Appalachian forest streams is the wild brook or speckled trout (\"\"), which is much sought after as a game fish. However, in past years such trout waters have been much degraded by increasing temperatures due to timber cutting, pollution from various sources and potentially, global warming.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7725217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725217", "title": "Baltic Plate", "text": "Baltic Plate\n\nThe Baltic Plate was an ancient tectonic plate that existed from the Cambrian Period to the Carboniferous Period. The Baltic Plate collided against Siberia, to form the Ural Mountains about 280 million years ago. The Baltic Plate, however, fused onto the Eurasian Plate when the Baltic Plate collided against Siberia when the Ural Mountains were completely formed. The Baltic Plate contained Baltica and the Baltic Shield which is now located in Norway, Sweden and Finland.\n\n"}
{"id": "181337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=181337", "title": "Capital city", "text": "Capital city\n\nA capital city (or simply capital) is the municipality exercising primary status in a country, state, province, or other administrative region, usually as its seat of government. A capital is typically a city that physically encompasses the government's offices and meeting places; the status as capital is often designated by its law or constitution. In some jurisdictions, including several countries, the different branches of government are located in different settlements. In some cases, a distinction is made between the official (constitutional) capital and the seat of government, which is in another place.\n\nCapital cities that are also the prime economic, cultural, or intellectual centres of a nation or an empire are sometimes referred to as primate cities. Examples are Athens, Bangkok, Brussels, Buenos Aires, Copenhagen, Cairo, London, Mexico City, Paris, Seoul and Tokyo.\n\nNews media will often use the name of a capital city as an alternative name for the country of which it is the capital or of the government that is seated there, as a form of metonymy. For example, \"relations between Washington and London\" refer to \"relations between the United States and the United Kingdom\".\n\nThe word \"capital\" derives from the Latin \"caput\" (genitive \"capitis\"), meaning \"head\".\n\nIn several English-speaking states, the terms county town and county seat are also used in lower subdivisions. In some unitary states, subnational capitals may be known as \"administrative centres\". The capital is often the largest city of its constituent, though not always.\n\nHistorically, the major economic centre of a state or region often becomes the focal point of political power, and becomes a capital through conquest or federation. (The modern capital city has, however, not always existed: in medieval Western Europe, an itinerant (wandering) government was common.) Examples are Ancient Babylon, Abbasid Baghdad, Ancient Athens, Rome, Constantinople, Chang'an, Ancient Cusco, Madrid, Paris, London, Moscow, Beijing, Tokyo, Vienna, Lisbon and Berlin. The capital city naturally attracts politically motivated people and those whose skills are needed for efficient administration of national or imperial governments, such as lawyers, political scientists, bankers, journalists, and public policy makers. Some of these cities are or were also religious centres, e.g. Constantinople (more than one religion), Rome (the Roman Catholic Church), Jerusalem (more than one religion), Ancient Babylon, Moscow (the Russian Orthodox Church), Belgrade (the Serbian Orthodox Church), Paris, and Peking.\n\nThe convergence of political and economic or cultural power is by no means universal. Traditional capitals may be economically eclipsed by provincial rivals, e.g. Nanking by Shanghai, Quebec City by Montreal, and numerous US state capitals. The decline of a dynasty or culture could also mean the extinction of its capital city, as occurred at Babylon and Cahokia.\n\nAlthough many capitals are defined by constitution or legislation, many long-time capitals have no legal designation as such: for example Bern, Edinburgh, Lisbon, London, Paris, and Wellington. They are recognised as capitals as a matter of convention, and because all or almost all the country's central political institutions, such as government departments, supreme court, legislature, embassies, etc., are located in or near them.\n\nCounties in the United Kingdom have historic county towns, which are often not the largest settlement within the county and often are no longer administrative centres, as many historical counties are now only ceremonial, and administrative boundaries are different.\n\nIn Canada, there is a federal capital, while the ten provinces and three territories all have capital cities. The states of such countries as Mexico, Brazil (including the famous cities of Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo, capitals of their respective states), and Australia all have capital cities. For example, the six state capitals of Australia are Adelaide; Brisbane; Hobart; Melbourne; Perth; and Sydney. In Australia, the term \"capital cities\" is regularly used to refer to the aforementioned state capitals plus the federal capital Canberra and Darwin, the capital of the Northern Territory. Abu Dhabi is the capital city of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi and the United Arab Emirates overall.\n\nIn unitary states which consist of multiple constituent nations, such as the United Kingdom or the Kingdom of Denmark, each will usually have its own capital city. Unlike in federations, there is usually not a separate national capital, but rather the capital city of one constituent nation will also be the capital of the state overall, such as London, which is the capital of England and the United Kingdom. Similarly, each of the autonomous communities of Spain and regions of Italy has a capital city, such as Seville or Naples, while Madrid is the capital of the Community of Madrid and the Kingdom of Spain as a whole and Rome is the capital of Italy and the region of Lazio.\n\nIn the Federal Republic of Germany, each of its constituent states (or \"Länder\" - plural of \"Land\") has its own capital city, such as Dresden, Wiesbaden, Mainz, Düsseldorf, Stuttgart, and Munich, as do all of the republics of the Russian Federation. The national capitals of Germany and Russia: the Stadtstaat of Berlin and the Federal City of Moscow, are also constituent states of both countries in their own right. Each of the States of Austria and Cantons of Switzerland also have their own capital cities. Vienna, the national capital of Austria, is also one of the states, while Bern is the (\"de facto\") capital of both Switzerland and the Canton of Bern.\n\nMany national capitals are also the largest city in their respective countries, but in many countries this is not the case.\n\nGoverning entities sometimes plan, design and build new capital cities to house the seat of government of a polity or of a subdivision. Deliberately planned and designed capitals include:\n\nThese cities satisfy one or both of the following criteria:\n\nSome examples of the second situation (compromise locations) include:\n\nChanges in a nation's political regime sometimes result in the designation of a new capital. Newly-independent Kazakhstan moved its capital to the existing city of Astana after the collapse of the Soviet Union. Naypyidaw was founded in Burma's interior as the former capital, Rangoon, was claimed to be too overcrowded.\n\nA few nation states have multiple capitals, and there are also several states that have no capital. Some have a city as the capital but with most government agencies elsewhere.\n\nThere is also a ghost town which is currently the \"de jure\" capital of a territory: Plymouth in Montserrat.\n\n\n\nThere are several countries where, for various reasons, the official capital and de facto seat of government are separated:\nSome historical examples of similar arrangements, where the recognized capital was not the official seat of government:\n\n\n\nWith the rise of modern empires and the nation-state, the capital city has become a symbol for the state and its government, and imbued with political meaning. Unlike medieval capitals, which were declared wherever a monarch held his or her court, the selection, relocation, founding, or capture of a modern capital city is an emotional event. For example:\n\n\nThe capital city is usually but not always a primary target in a war, as capturing it usually guarantees capture of much of the enemy government, victory for the attacking forces, or at the very least demoralization for the defeated forces.\n\nIn ancient China, where governments were massive centralized bureaucracies with little flexibility on the provincial level, a dynasty could easily be toppled with the fall of its capital. In the Three Kingdoms period, both Shu and Wu fell when their respective capitals of Chengdu and Jianye fell. The Ming dynasty relocated its capital from Nanjing to Beijing, where they could more effectively control the generals and troops guarding the borders from Mongols and Manchus. The Ming was destroyed when the Li Zicheng took their seat of power, and this pattern repeats itself in Chinese history, until the fall of the traditional Confucian monarchy in the 20th century. After the Qing dynasty's collapse, decentralization of authority and improved transportation and communication technologies allowed both the Chinese Nationalists and Chinese Communists to rapidly relocate capitals and keep their leadership structures intact during the great crisis of Japanese invasion.\n\nNational capitals were arguably less important as military objectives in other parts of the world, including the West, because of socioeconomic trends toward localized authority, a strategic modus operandi especially popular after the development of feudalism and reaffirmed by the development of democratic and capitalistic philosophies. In 1204, after the Latin Crusaders captured the Byzantine capital, Constantinople, Byzantine forces were able to regroup in several provinces; provincial noblemen managed to reconquer the capital after 60 years and preserve the empire for another 200 years after that. The British forces sacked various American capitals repeatedly during the Revolutionary War and War of 1812, but American forces could still carry on fighting from the countryside, where they enjoyed support from local governments and the traditionally independent civilian frontiersmen. Exceptions to these generalizations include highly centralized states such as France, whose centralized bureaucracies could effectively coordinate far-flung resources, giving the state a powerful advantage over less coherent rivals, but risking utter ruin if the capital were taken. In their military strategies, traditional enemies of France such as Prussia (in the Franco-Prussian War of 1871) focused on the capture of Paris.\n\n"}
{"id": "2110519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2110519", "title": "Central Belt", "text": "Central Belt\n\nThe Central Belt of Scotland is the area of highest population density within Scotland. It has a population of about 3.5 million covering an area of approximately 10,000 km, including Greater Glasgow, Ayrshire, Falkirk, Edinburgh, Lothian and Fife.\n\nDespite the name, it is not geographically central but is nevertheless situated at the 'waist' of Scotland on a conventional map and the term 'central' is used in many local government, police and NGO designations.\n\nIt was formerly known as the Midlands or Scottish Midlands, but this term has fallen out of fashion.\n\nThe Central Belt lies between the Highlands to the north and the Southern Uplands to the south.\n\nThe area is often considered as the 'triangle' defined by the M8, M80 motorway and M9 motorways stretching from Greenock and Glasgow in the west to Edinburgh in the east, encompassing towns such as Paisley, Cambuslang, Hamilton, Stirling, Falkirk, Cumbernauld, Livingston and Bathgate. It has been referred to as the Lowland Triangle.\n\nThe larger Central Belt is a trapezoid stretching from Dundee, to Ayr, and Dumbarton to Dunbar. This also takes in fairly densely populated areas such as Ayrshire, Fife, Midlothian and East Lothian. This area encompasses all the major cities of Scotland, except for Aberdeen and Inverness which are located in the north of the country.\n\nBoth of these areas also contain the bulk of Scotland's industrial works.\n\nThere are several terms in common usage in a Scottish context with a similar meaning to \"Central Belt\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54453213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54453213", "title": "Colin G. Pooley", "text": "Colin G. Pooley\n\nColin G. Pooley (born c.1951) is professor emeritus of social and historical geography at the University of Lancaster where he worked from 1975 until c.2011. He is a specialist in transport and migration studies.\n\nPooley has lived and worked in the North West of England since birth. He attended the University of Liverpool, graduating with an honours degree in geography in 1972 (Rural economy and agricultural change in the upper Itchen Valley, 1500-1800) and PhD in Geography in 1979 (Migration, mobility and residential areas in nineteenth-century Liverpool). He began teaching at Lancaster University in 1975, remaining until retirement and occupying several adminsitrative roles including head of the former Department of Geography. He was associated with the former Centre for North-West Regional Studies, and latterly Lancaster's Centre for Mobilities Research.\n\nPooley works on the social and historical geography of Britain and continental Europe since the eighteenth century. He began his career investigating housing, health, crime, ethnicity and social change, notably in Liverpool.\n\nHis more recent research has been on migration, mobility and sustainable urban travel, with one current (2018) project conducting comparative analyses of sustainable urban mobility in Europe, and culture and society from the 1890s to the present. His research techniques have included archival work, travel diaries, policy analysis and qualitative research techniques. \n\nHe is the author of numerous volumes and articles on these topics.\n\n"}
{"id": "919570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=919570", "title": "Cuesta", "text": "Cuesta\n\nA cuesta is a hill or ridge with a gentle slope on one side, and a steep slope on the other. In geology the term is more specifically applied to a ridge where a harder sedimentary rock overlies a softer layer, the whole being tilted somewhat from the horizontal. This results in a long and gentle backslope called a dip slope that conforms with the dip of resistant strata, called caprock. Where erosion has exposed the frontslope of this, a steep slope or escarpment occurs. The resulting terrain may be called scarpland.\n\nIn general usage, a cuesta is a hill or ridge with a gentle slope (backslope) on one side, and a steep slope (frontslope) on the other. The word is from Spanish: \"flank or slope of a hill; hill, mount, sloping ground\". In geology and geomorphology, cuesta refers specifically to an asymmetric ridge with a long and gentle backslope called a dip slope that conforms with the dip of a resistant stratum or strata, called caprock. The outcrop of the caprock forms a steeper or even cliff-like frontslope (escarpment), cutting through the dipping strata that comprise the cuesta.\n\nCuestas are the expression of extensive outcrops of gently dipping strata, typically sedimentary strata, that consist of alternating beds of weak or loosely cemented strata, i.e. shale, mudstone, and marl and hard, well-lithified strata, i.e. sandstone and limestone. The surfaces of the hard, erosion-resistant rock strata form the caprock of the backslope (dip-slope) of the cuesta, where erosion has preferentially removed the weaker strata. The frontslope of the cuesta consists of an escarpment that cuts across the bedding of the strata comprising it. Because of the gently dipping nature of the strata that forms a cuesta, a significant shift in horizontal location will take place as the landscape is lowered by erosion. Because the slope of a cuesta dips in the same direction as the sedimentary strata, the dip angle of this bedding (θ) can be calculated by (\"v\" / \"h\") = tan(θ) where \"v\" is equal to the vertical distance and \"h\" is equal to the horizontal distance perpendicular to the strike of the beds.\n\nCuestas, homoclinal ridges, and hogbacks comprise a sequence of landforms that form a gradational continuum. These landforms differ only on the steepness of their backslopes and the relative differences in the inclination of their backslopes and frontslopes. These differences depend upon whether the dip of the strata from which they have been eroded are either nearly vertical, moderately dipping, or gently dipping. Because of their gradational nature, the exact angle of the backslope that separates these landforms is arbitrary and some differences in the specific angles used to define these landforms occur in the scientific literature. In addition, it also can be difficult to sharply distinguish immediately adjacent members of this series of landforms because of their gradational nature.\n\nTwo well-known cuestas in western New York and southern Ontario are the Onondaga escarpment and the Niagara escarpment, respectively. The dip of the Onondaga is about 40 feet per mile (about 7.6 m/km) to the south. The escarpment edge faces north, and in its most populated section, runs roughly parallel to the southern Lake Ontario shoreline.\n\nThe Gulf Coastal Plain in Texas is punctuated by a series of cuestas that parallel the coast, as are most coastal plains. The Reynosa Plateau is the most coast-ward cuesta, which has surface expression with the Bordes-Oakville escarpment, on the northwest side and a low ridge on the eastern boundary, called the Reynosa Cuesta, where the deposits dip below later Pliocene-Pleistocene deposits of the Willis and Lissie Formations.\n\nCuestas have less dramatic expression in the United Kingdom, with two notable examples being the northwest-facing escarpment of the Jurassic chalk White Horse Hills and the similarly aligned escarpment of the Cotswolds, sometimes called the Cotswold Edge.\n\nIn continental Europe, the Swabian Alb offers particularly good views of cuestas in Jurassic rock. In France, the term for a cuesta is the same as for a coastline: \"côte\". Notable French cuestas are the wine-growing regions of Côte d'Or and Côtes du Rhône.\n\nThe Machinchang Formation outcrops in the Langkawi islands off the coast of northwestern Malaysia. The formation is one of the oldest exposed rock units in Southeast Asia and has an extensive eroded anticline cuesta topography — dating back to Cambrian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47085743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47085743", "title": "Daniel W. Gade", "text": "Daniel W. Gade\n\nDaniel Wynne Gade (September 28, 1936 – June 15, 2015) was a professor of Geography at the University of Vermont and a prominent member of the Berkeley School of Latin Americanist Geography. His main interests were in the fields of cultural geography and historical geography, as well as ethnobotany, cultural ecology, and mountain research. His regional focus was on the Central Andes of Ecuador, Peru, and Bolivia; moreover, Gade also investigated cultural landscapes of francophone Canada, Spain and Portugal, highland Madagascar, southern France and northern Italy. He was born in Niagara Falls, New York.\n\nHe received the bachelor's degree from Valparaiso University (Indiana) in 1959, a Master of Arts from the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign in 1960, and a Master of Science, followed by a Doctorate, from the University of Wisconsin–Madison in 1967. His dissertation on human plant use in the Vilcanota Valley of Peru was published in the series \"Biogeographica\", then edited by German geographer Josef Schmithüsen. During his travels in South America, he also met the Nazi scientist Heinz Brücher and analyzed his work in a publication. He died in Burlington, Vermont on June 15, 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "5266824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5266824", "title": "Deprivation index", "text": "Deprivation index\n\nDeprivation indices are a measure of the level of deprivation in an area.\n\nExamples include:\n\n"}
{"id": "19762909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19762909", "title": "Diego de Ocampo", "text": "Diego de Ocampo\n\nThe Diego de Ocampo is the highest point in the Cordillera Septentrional in the Santiago Province, Dominican Republic.\n\nThis peak was named for Diego de Ocampo, a son of a wealthy Spaniard whose mother was of taino race from the island of Hispanola. He was named a true heir to his father in the Spanish courts. Diego de Ocampo rebelled, pillaged and sabotaged plantations in Concepción de la Vega, San Juan de la Maguana, Azua de Compostela and Bahoruco. He made a truce with the Spanish authorities, but rebelled again soon after. Later on he was captured and executed by Spanish troops, according to Governor Cerrato and the Oidor Grajeada in 1546.\n"}
{"id": "57488989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57488989", "title": "Diokno Highway", "text": "Diokno Highway\n\nThe Diokno Highway is a , two lane, secondary road in the provinces of Cavite and Batangas that connects the municipality of Alfonso in Cavite and the municipality of Lemery in Batangas. It runs in southern Cavite to Batangas.\n\n"}
{"id": "23425089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23425089", "title": "Doi Nang Non", "text": "Doi Nang Non\n\nDoi Nang Non (, ; 'Mountain of the Sleeping Lady') is a mountain range in the Thai highlands in Chiang Rai Province, Thailand. It is a karstic formation with numerous waterfalls and caves rising at the southern end of the Daen Lao Range. Part of its area is managed as the Tham Luang–Khun Nam Nang Non Forest Park ().\n\nDoi Nang Non consists of a long hill tract that lies on the west side of the highway between Chiang Rai and Mae Sai. The greater part of the range is in Mae Sai District, extending west and southwest of Pong Pha along the border with Myanmar. The mountain range is an unusual land feature when seen from certain angles as its silhouette takes the shape of a reclining woman with long hair. Its highest point is Doi Tung, which corresponds to the belly of the lady.\n\nThere are a number of caves and underground water courses in the range area.\n\n\nIn 1986 an eight km sector of the range which included the entrance to the main cave was declared the Tham Luang–Khun Nam Nang Non Forest Park.\n\nOn 23 June 2018, a group of twelve boys aged between 11 and 17, who went to explore Tham Luang Nang Non with their assistant football coach, aged 25, went missing. The group was found 10 days later. They were part of a local junior football team. The cave they entered became flooded. Thai Navy SEAL divers had been searching the caves ever since. Owing to heavy rain which further flooded the cave entrance, searches were periodically interrupted. Thai NAVY divers soon got help from American, Australian, British, and Chinese divers, military members, and emergency personnel. \n\nThe group was found alive on Monday evening, 2 July, according to a press release at 22:30. All 12 boys along with their coach were reported alive. They were found by British volunteer divers around 400 metres away from a spot nicknamed \"Pattaya Beach\", an elevated mound in the cave. Food and medical supplies were delivered but a three hour-long journey, continued rains and mountainous terrain above the cave delayed their escape. On 8 July at 19:00 four of the boys had been rescued. By 10 July at 19:00, all of the boys and their coach had been rescued from the cave.\n\nOne of the legends goes that in ancient times a beautiful princess fell in love with a stable boy and became pregnant. Knowing their love was forbidden, they fled and went in the cave to rest. When the boy went in search of food, he was caught by the princess' father's army and killed. The distraught princess stabbed herself to death and the legend says her blood became the water that flows through the cave, while her body is the surrounding mountains, said to look like a sleeping woman.\n\nSome of the caves in the hill area have been developed as a tourist attraction. There is a viewpoint at Mae Chan District, from where the \"sleeping lady\" can best be observed. Local tour guides joke that Doi Nang Non would be \"the highest mountain in the world\", if only the supposed lady would get up and stand on her feet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48026802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48026802", "title": "Edward Harwood (American inventor)", "text": "Edward Harwood (American inventor)\n\nEdward \"Ed\" Harwood (born February 4, 1950) is an American inventor, entrepreneur, and one of the pioneers of aeroponics. He is the founder of Aero Farm Systems, L.L.C. (AeroFarms), as well as the chief inventor of “Method and apparatus for aeroponic farming\" (United States Patent No. 8,782,948). \n\nEd Harwood was born in Stoughton, Massachusetts. He attended Colorado State University, where he received three separate degrees: a BS in microbiology, a BS in animal science, and an MS in animal science. Harwood then went on to receive his PhD in dairy science and artificial intelligence from the University of Wisconsin-Madison.\n\nSubsequent to working in dairy science in Madison, WI, most notably as Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Topline Waikato, Inc., a New Zealand milking equipment supplier, Harwood moved to Ithaca, NY to work at Cornell University. In 2003, after serving as the Associate Director of Cornell Cooperative Extension, he built a prototype aeroponic system designed to grow vegetables indoors in a sustainable way, without pesticides. The advantages of the system, in comparison to traditional agriculture, include: less water usage, better air flow, and the ability to grow vegetables year round. After experimenting to find the most suitable textiles for the system, a critical piece of the technology’s success, he settled on a durable microfleece cloth that could be reused.\n\nIn 2004, Harwood took his technology and launched the Ithaca, NY based farming venture GreatVeggies. He began selling lettuce to local grocers and restaurants. After significant struggle finding investors interested in aeroponics, he received funding from the Quercus Trust and 21Ventures in 2009. He renamed the company AeroFarms and transitioned his focus from selling lettuce to selling the patented systems to farmers and entrepreneurs.\n\nHarwood's first notable success as CEO of AeroFarms came in 2010 when he and EcoVeggies partnered with Phillip's Academy Charter School in Newark, NJ. One of Harwood’s patented aeroponic systems was placed in a science classroom as part of the school's EcoSPACES program, with the goal of helping students learn about sustainable growing techniques. The aeroponic system is currently located in the cafeteria, steps from the salad bar. The leafy-green vegetables grown by the students are used in the school kitchen to prepare nutritious and healthy meals for the kids. In April 2016, as part of her Let's Move initiative, Michelle Obama visited Phillip's Academy and was shown the aeroponic system by the students before eating a meal next to it in the cafeteria.\n\nAfter receiving awards in 2010 and 2011, including the Red Herring Global Top 100 North America award and World Technology Award for the Environment, Harwood and AeroFarms accepted investment from other partners, including Goldman Sachs, Prudential and the city of Newark. In early 2014, AeroFarms broke ground on the world's largest indoor vertical farm, a 70,000-square-foot, $39 million facility located in a former steel mill in Newark. The record breaking farm will grow vegetables using the aeroponic system patented by Harwood, who currently serves as Chief Science Officer of AeroFarms.\n\nIan Frazier, in The New Yorker, likened Harwood's invention to the Wright brothers' first bi-plane, stating: \"For concentrated ingenuity and handcrafted uniqueness, its closest simile, I think, is the Wright brothers’ first biplane, the Flyer, now on display in the National Air and Space Museum, in Washington. Like the Flyer, and like many other great inventions, Harwood’s prototype is also an objet d’art.\" On June 25, 2018, Harwood was awarded the United FreshTEC Achievement Award for outstanding technical achievements by the United Fresh Produce Association for advancing “the fresh produce industry through innovation in indoor growing technologies.” \n\n"}
{"id": "47234583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47234583", "title": "Erosion surface", "text": "Erosion surface\n\nIn geology and geomorphology, an erosion surface is a surface of rock or regolith that was formed by erosion and not by construction (e.g. lava flows, sediment deposition) nor fault displacement. Erosional surfaces within the stratigraphic record are known as unconformities, but not all unconformities are buried erosion surfaces. Erosion surfaces can be either small or large. Particularly large and flat erosion surfaces receive the names of peneplain, paleoplain, planation surface or pediplain.\n"}
{"id": "55723617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55723617", "title": "Fire history", "text": "Fire history\n\nFire history, the ecological science of the study of the history of wildfires, is a subdiscipline of fire ecology. Patterns of forest fires in historical and prehistorical time provide information relevant to the pattern of vegetation in modern landscapes. It provides an estimate of the historical range of variability of a natural disturbance regime, and can be used to identify the processes affecting the occurrence of fire. Fire history reconstructions are achieved by compiling atlases of past fires, using the tree ring record from fire scars and tree ages, and the charcoal record from soils and sediments.\n\nSustained wildfire can only exist once oxygen levels and fuel sources were present in sufficient quantities. Between 400 and 450 million year ago, fire became a feature of the landscape. The presence of fusain (fossil charcoal), beginning in the early Carboniferous attests to this fire history and forms an important element of the Cretaceous–Paleogene boundary.\n\nThe growth record of a tree in seasonal climates is preserved in the growth rings in the stem wood; the field of dendrochronology is the study of the record of climate and other events preserved in the growth record. Each growth ring represents one year of life. The thickness of each ring indicates the amount of wood produced during that growing season. At the beginning of the growing season large cells are able to quickly divide creating a light colored wood. When growth slows down, generally in colder months, a darker wood is created from smaller cells dividing more slowly. Thus, one year is represented by a light inner ring and a darker outer ring. \n\nRings can be counted from dead trees as well as stumps left behind from logging. A sample can be collected from a living tree using tools like the increment borer. The increment borer is a hollow steel tube used to extract a core sample from a tree’s trunk. The growth rings in a core sample are counted to determine the age of that tree. Ages of stand-replacing fires may be determined by determining the cohort-age of trees that established after a fire. For example, tree-ring dating of large stands will show the age of the forest, and may provide an estimate of when the last large disturbance event occurred.\n\nSometimes growth rings exhibit scars. A fire scar forms when heat kills the vascular cambium beneath the bark, which then heals over subsequent years as growth rings curl over the scarred area, thus protecting the tree from infection. This method can be used to date the year a fire occurred. Observing the scars establishes the timeline of a forest fire and the time between fires at a site. Surveying many trees over a large sample area provides a view to individual fire events and the overall fire regime. Not all tree species scar and show evidence of fire. Most pine species in the subgenus Pinus readily produce scars that are protected by resin; such scarring on other trees may result in death, leaving no fire record behind.\n\nPrior to Euro-American settlement in western North America, fire histories from scars preserved in ponderosa pine forests often reveal a pattern of frequent fire (often with 5 to 20 year intervals in a single area), with a pattern in time and space strongly related to past variations in climate. Fuel reduction from grazing and fire suppression greatly reduced the amount of fire in dry forests over the last 100 years.\n\nA study by Arne Buechiling and William L. Baker in 2004 identified 41 fire events beginning in 1533 in a 9200-ha study area north of Estes Park, Colorado. They sampled 3461 tree cores and 212 fire scars. Fire scar data provided greater insight into the fire event parameters. Of the 41 fires, 22 where high-severity crown fires, 7 low-severity surface fires, and 8 mixed-severity fires. Fires larger than 300 ha were few, but composed a substantial proportion of the area burned since 1700. Drought periods led to larger fires.\n\nThere is little known about the fire history in some places. Central Europe for instance has a lack of intact forests with old growth trees or an abundance of dead or cut down trees that can be used to reconstruct the past fire regimes. An exception to this lacking history is the Bialowieza Primeval Forest in Poland. A group of researchers were able to use a 350-year tree-ring fire record to reconstruct the fire history in precise detail. This is a shining example of how the method can be used in a place with lost or no written history of a fire regime.\n\n"}
{"id": "39731150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39731150", "title": "Fordsburg Square", "text": "Fordsburg Square\n\nFordsburg Square in Fordsburg is a thriving square that is the site of a flea market was recently known for being run-down. This square in Johannesburg is the location of a battle between striking miners and the South African police, army and air force.\n\nFordsburg Square is the site of a flea market that was known for being run-down. \n\nThe Rand Rebellion against the powers of law and order ended here on the 14 March 1922. The uprising came out of a strike of black gold miners that started on `1 January 1922 in response to five shilling wage cut per shift. The White workers joined them ten days later because the owners of the mine had decided to cut costs by employing (cheaper) more black miners instead of the existing white workers. \n\nThe workers did not just withdraw their labour but the a portion of the 20,000 white workers and the 180,000 black miners took over areas of Johannesburg and they were in control of Benoni, Brakpan suburbs of Fordsburg and Jeppe. The strike had become an open rebellion and on the 15 March the army was called to bombard the Fordsburg square which was deemed the stronghold of the rebels. By this time the rebels had dug substantial World War One trenches across the square. Even the South African Air Force was called to bomb this square but they hit the nearby Mint Road Presbyterian Church.\n\nOne of the buildings that offered protection to the rebels was the municipal toilets and these are still standing and in use. In 2013 a Blue Plaque was added to the size of that building to commemorate the role that the square took in the History of South Africa.\n"}
{"id": "45681966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45681966", "title": "Foreign relations of the Democratic Federation of Northern Syria", "text": "Foreign relations of the Democratic Federation of Northern Syria\n\nThe foreign relations of the Democratic Federation of Northern Syria refers to the external relations of the self-proclaimed autonomous region of the Democratic Federation of Northern Syria (DFNS). The region, consisting of three regions (Afrin, Euphrates and Jazira) was formed in early 2014 in the context of the Syrian Civil War, a conflict that has caused the involvement of many different countries and international organizations in the area.\n\nThe Constitution of the Democratic Federation of Northern Syria, which defines the DFNS as an integral part of Syria and not a separate country, states that \"the Autonomous Regions shall not interfere in the domestic affairs of other countries, and it shall safeguard its relations with neighboring states, resolving any conflicts peacefully.\" It also mandates, among other executive council bodies, a Body of Foreign Relations.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe socio-political transformations of the \"Rojava Revolution\" have inspired much attention in international media, both in mainstream media and in dedicated progressive leftist media.\n\nAmong the early established international non-governmental organizations (NGOs) active in the DFNS are Handicap International and DanChurchAid, while many established NGOs are deterred by the aggressive Turkish embargo policy. However, there are numerous purpose-built initiatives of international support for Rojava and people in Rojava as well as a considerable amount of freelance volunteers. The international volunteers with the People's Protection Units (YPG) self-defence militia have been widely reported on, as to a lesser extent have the international volunteers with the DFNS Plan infrastructure-building initiative.\n\nBy 2017, Turkish deterrence against international civil society engagement in the DFNS has been breaking down. From September 2017, Médecins Sans Frontières operates the National Hospital in Hasakah, which had been abandoned by the Syrian government. \n\nA number of international NGOs help to support huge number of refugees who have fled to Rojava from other parts of Syria or from Iraq, while trying to keep a low profile for the aforementioned reason.\n\nIn August 2016, the newly founded University of Rojava in Qamishli, established by the Jazira Region Board of Education, concluded an agreement with Paris 8 University in France for cooperation.\n\nIn 2016, talks about the establishment of a French cultural centre in the town of Amuda began.\n\nIn April 2015, the municipality of Rome, capital of Italy, recognised the municipality of Kobani as a sister city.\n\nIn September 2016, the Kurdish Red Crescent opened a hospital in Kobanî, their first hospital in the Euphrates Region. Many international organizations had given a helping hand as well as sending them special medical equipment, UNICEF and Doctors Without Borders in particular.\n\nYPG spokesman Redur Xelil stated on 20 March 2017 that Russia will train Kurdish fighters under an agreement in which it will also set up a military base near Afrin. Russian troops and armored vehicles were reported to have been spotted around Afrin. Russia however denied any such deal was made, stating it had no plans to create additional military bases in Syria and adding that only a section of its reconciliation centre was located in Aleppo Governorate near Afrin for the prevention of ceasefire violations.\n\n"}
{"id": "325752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=325752", "title": "Hadhramaut", "text": "Hadhramaut\n\nHadramaut, Hadhramaut, Hadramout, Hadramawt or Ḥaḍramūt ( \"Ḥaḍramawt\"; Musnad: 𐩢𐩳𐩧𐩣𐩩) is a region on the southern end of the Arabian Peninsula. The name is officially retained in Hadhramaut Governorate of the Republic of Yemen. The people of Hadhramaut are called \"Hadhrami\" and speak Hadhrami Arabic.\n\nThe origin of the name \"Ḥaḍramawt\" is not exactly known, and there are numerous competing hypotheses about its meaning.\n\nThe most common folk etymology is that the region's name means \"death has come,\" from /ḥaḍara/ (Arabic for \"he came\") and /mawt/ (\"death\"), though there are multiple explanations for how it came to be known as such. One explanation is that this is a nickname of 'Amar ibn Qaḥṭān, a legendary invader of the region, whose battles always left many dead. Another theory is that after the destruction of Thamūd, the Islamic prophet Ṣāliḥ relocated himself and about 4,000 of his followers to the region and it was there that he died, thus lending the region its morbid name \"death has come.\" A third related etymology posits that refers to the inhabitants of the area, themselves, and hints that the way of life of the ancient \"Hadhrami\" people was severe and ascetic in the eyes of the bordering kingdoms situated in today's North Yemen.\n\nḤaḍramawt is also identified with Biblical Hazarmawet (; Genesis 10:26 and 1 Chronicles 1:20). There, it is the name of a son of Joktan (who is also identified with Qahtan), the ancestor of the South Arabian kingdoms. According to various Bible dictionaries, the name \"Hazarmaveth\" means \"court of death,\" reflecting a meaning similar to the Arabic folk etymologies.\n\nScholarly theories of the name's origin are somewhat more varied, but none have gained general acceptance. Juris Zarins, rediscoverer of the city claimed to be the ancient Incense Route trade capital Ubar in Oman, suggested that the name may come from the Greek word , or enclosed (and often fortified) watering stations at wadis. In a \"Nova\" interview, he described Ubar as\n\nThough it accurately describes the configuration of settlements in the Pre-Islamic Wadi Ḥaḍramawt, this explanation for the name is anachronistic and has gained no wider scholarly acceptance.\n\nAlready in the Pre-Islamic period, variations of the name are attested as early as the middle of the First Millennium BC. The names \"ḥḍrmt\" (𐩢𐩳𐩧𐩣𐩩) and \"ḥḍrmwt\" (𐩢𐩳𐩧𐩣𐩥𐩩) are found in texts of the Old South Arabian languages (Ḥaḍramitic, Minaic, Qatabanic, and Sabaic), though the second form is not found in any known Ḥaḍramitic inscriptions. In either form, the word itself can be a toponym, a tribal name, or the name of the kingdom of Ḥaḍramawt. In the late Fourth or early Third Century BC, Theophrastus gives the name Άδρραμύτα, a direct transcription of the Semitic name into Greek.\n\nAs Southern Arabia is the homeland of the South Semitic language subfamily, a Semitic origin for the name is highly likely. Kamal Salibi proposed an alternative etymology for the name which argues that the diphthong \"aw\" in the name is an incorrect vocalization. He notes that \"-ūt\" is a frequent ending for place names in the Ḥaḍramawt, and given that \"Ḥaḍramūt\" is the colloquial pronunciation of the name, and apparently also its ancient pronunciation, the correct reading of the name should be \"place of ḥḍrm.\" He proposes, then, that the name means \"the green place,\" which is apt for its well-watered wadis whose lushness contrasts with the surrounding high desert plateau.\n\nNarrowly, Hadhramaut refers to the historical Qu'aiti and Kathiri sultanates , which were in the Aden Protectorate overseen by the British Resident at Aden until their abolition upon the independence of South Yemen in 1967. The current governorate of Hadhramaut roughly incorporates the former territory of the two sultanates It consists of a narrow, arid coastal plain bounded by the steep escarpment of a broad plateau (\"al-Jawl\", averaging ), with a very sparse network of deeply sunk wadis (seasonal watercourses). The undefined northern edge of Hadhramaut slopes down to the desert Empty Quarter.\n\nIn a wider sense, Hadhramaut includes the territory of Mahra to the east all the way to the contemporary border with Oman. This encompasses the current governorates of Hadramaut and Mahra in their entirety as well as parts of the Shabwah Governorate.\n\nThe Hadhramis live in densely built towns centered on traditional watering stations along the wadis. Hadhramis harvest crops of wheat and millet, tend date palm and coconut groves, and grow some coffee. On the plateau, Bedouins tend sheep and goats. Society is still highly tribal, with the old Seyyid aristocracy, descended from the Islamic prophet, Muhammad, traditionally educated and strict in their Islamic observance and highly respected in religious and secular affairs. \n\nSince the early 19th century, large-scale Hadhramaut migration has established sizable Hadhrami minorities all around the Indian Ocean, in South Asia, Southeast Asia and East Africa including Hyderabad, Aurangabad, Bhatkal, Gangolli, Malabar, Sylhet, Malay Archipelago, Sri Lanka, southern Philippines and Singapore.\n\nIn Hyderabad and Aurangabad, the community is known as Chaush and resides mostly in the neighborhood of Barkas. There are also settlements of Hadhrami In Gujarat, such as in Ahmadabad and Surat.\n\nIn older history, several Sultans in Malay Archipelago, such as Sultanate of Malacca, Sultanate of Pontianak or Sultanate of Siak Indrapura, were descents of Hadhrami. In 19th century, Hadhrami businessmen owned many of maritime armada of barks, bridges, schooners and other ships in Malay archipelago. In modern time, several Indonesian ministers, including former Foreign Minister Ali Alatas and former Finance Minister Mari'e Muhammad are of Hadhrami descent, as is the former Prime Minister of East Timor, Mari Alkatiri.(2006).\n\nHadhramis have also settled in large numbers along the East African coast, and two former ministers in Kenya, Shariff Nasser and Najib Balala, are of Hadhrami descent. Genetic evidence has linked the Lemba people, an African Jewish community of Zimbabwe and South Africa, to the people of the Hadramaut region. Among the Hadramaut region there has been a historical Jewish population, suggesting both religious and ethnic continuity between Hadhramis and the Lemba.\n\nThe Qu'aiti sultans ruled the vast majority of Hadramaut, under a loose British protectorate, the Aden Protectorate, from 1882 to 1967, when the Hadhramaut was annexed by South Yemen.\n\nThe Qu'aiti dynasty was founded by 'Umar bin Awadh al-Qu’aiti, a Yafa’i tribesman whose wealth and influence as hereditary Jemadar of the Nizam of Hyderabad's armed forces enabled him to establish the Qu'aiti dynasty in the latter half of the 19th century, winning British recognition of his paramount status in the region, in 1882. The British Government and the traditional and scholarly sultan Ali bin Salah signed a treaty in 1937 appointing the British government as \"advisors\" in Hadhramaut. The British exiled him to Aden in 1945, but the Protectorate lasted until 1967.\n\nIn 1967, the former British Colony of Aden and the former Aden Protectorate including Hadramaut became an independent Communist state, the People's Republic of South Yemen, later the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. South Yemen was united with North Yemen in 1990 as the Republic of Yemen. See History of Yemen for recent history.\n\nThe capital and largest city of Hadhramaut is the port Mukalla. Mukalla had a 1994 population of 122,400 and a 2003 population of 174,700, while the port city of Ash Shihr has grown from 48,600 to 69,400 in the same time. One of the more historically important cities in the region is Tarim. An important locus of Islamic learning, it is estimated to contain the highest concentration of descendants of the Prophet Muhammad anywhere in the world.\n\nHistorically, Hadhramaut was known for being a major producer of frankincense, which was mainly exported to Mumbai in the early 20th century. The region has also produced senna and coconut. Currently, Hadhramout produces approximately 260,000 barrels of oil per day; one of the most productive fields is Al Maseelah in the strip (14), which was discovered in 1993. The Yemeni government is keen to develop its oil fields to increase oil production in order to increase national wealth in response to the requirements of economic and social development in the country. Oil contributes 30-40% of the nation's GDP, over 70% of total state revenues, and more than 90% of the value of the country's exports.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11453612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11453612", "title": "Hemispherical photography", "text": "Hemispherical photography\n\nHemispherical photography, also known as fisheye or canopy photography, is a technique to estimate solar radiation and characterize plant canopy geometry using photographs taken looking upward through an extreme wide-angle lens (Rich 1990). Typically, the viewing angle approaches or equals 180-degrees, such that all sky directions are simultaneously visible. The resulting photographs record the geometry of visible sky, or conversely the geometry of sky obstruction by plant canopies or other near-ground features. This geometry can be measured precisely and used to calculate solar radiation transmitted through (or intercepted by) plant canopies, as well as to estimate aspects of canopy structure such as leaf area index. Detailed treatments of field and analytical methodology have been provided by Paul Rich (1989, 1990) and Robert Pearcy (1989).\n\nThe hemispherical lens (also known as a fisheye or whole-sky lens) was originally designed by Robin Hill (1924) to view the entire sky for meteorological studies of cloud formation. Foresters and ecologists conceived of using photographic techniques to study the light environment in forests by examining the canopy geometry. In particular, Evans and Coombe (1959) estimated sunlight penetration through forest canopy openings by overlaying diagrams of the sun track on hemispherical photographs. Later, Margaret Anderson (1964, 1971) provided a thorough theoretical treatment for calculating the transmission of direct and diffuse components of solar radiation through canopy openings using hemispherical photographs. At that time hemispherical photograph analysis required tedious manual scoring of overlays of sky quadrants and the track of the sun. With the advent of personal computers, researchers developed digital techniques for rapid analysis of hemispherical photographs (Chazdon and Field 1987, Rich 1988, 1989, 1990, Becker et al. 1989). In recent years, researchers have started using digital cameras in favor of film cameras, and algorithms are being developed for automated image classification and analysis. Various commercial software programs have become available for hemispherical photograph analysis, and the technique has been applied for diverse uses in ecology, meteorology, forestry, and agriculture.\n\nHemispherical photography has been used successfully in a broad range of applications involving microsite characterization and estimation of the solar radiation near the ground and beneath plant canopies. For example, hemispherical photography has been used to characterize winter roosting sites for monarch butterflies (Weiss et al. 1991), effects of forest edges (Galo et al. 1991), influence of forest treefall gaps on tree regeneration (Rich et al. 1993), spatial and temporal variability of light in tropical rainforest understory (Clark et al. 1996), impacts of hurricanes on forest ecology (Bellingham et al. 1996), leaf area index for validation of remote sensing (Chen et al. 1997), canopy architecture of boreal forests (Fournier et al. 1997), light environment in old growth temperate rain forests (Weiss 2000), and management of vineyard trellises to make better wine (Weiss et al. 2003).\n\nDirect and diffuse components of solar radiation are calculated separately (see Earth's radiation balance). Direct radiation is calculated as the sum of all direct (solar beam) radiation originating from visible (non-obscured) sky directions along the path of the sun. Similarly, diffuse solar radiation is calculated as the sum of all diffuse radiation (scattered from the atmosphere) originating from any visible (non-obscured) sky directions (see diffuse sky radiation). The sum of direct and diffuse components gives global radiation.\n\nThese calculations require theoretical or empirical distributions of direct and diffuse radiation in the open, without canopy or other sky obstruction. Usually calculations are performed for either photosynthetically active radiation (400-700 nanometers) or insolation integrated over all wavelengths, measured in kilowatt-hours per square meter (kW h/m).\n\nThe fundamental assumption is that most solar radiation originates from visible (unobscured) sky directions, a strong first order effect, and that reflected radiation from the canopy or other near-ground features (non-visible or obscured sky directions) is negligible, a small second order effect. Another assumption is that the geometry of visible (non-obscured) sky does not change over the period for which calculations are performed.\n\nCanopy indices, such as leaf area index, are based on calculation of gap fraction, the proportion of visible (non-obscured) sky as a function of sky direction. Leaf area index is typically calculated as the leaf area per unit ground area that would produce the observed gap fraction distribution, given an assumption of random leaf angle distribution, or a known leaf angle distribution and degree of clumping. For further explanation see leaf area index.\n\nDirect Site Factor (DSF) is the proportion of direct solar radiation at a given location relative to that in the open, either integrated over time or resolved according to intervals of time of day and/or season.\n\nIndirect Site Factor (ISF) is the proportion of diffuse solar radiation at a given location relative to that in the open, either integrated over time for all sky directions or resolved by sky sector direction.\n\nGlobal Site Factor (GSF) is the proportion of global solar radiation at a given location relative to that in the open, calculated as the sum of DSF and ISF weighted by the relative contribution of direct versus diffuse components.\n\nIndices may be uncorrected or corrected for angle of incidence relative to a flat intercepting surface. Uncorrected values weight solar radiation originating from all directions equally. Corrected values weight solar radiation by the cosine of the angle of incidence, accounting for actual interception from directions normal to the intercepting surface.\n\nLeaf Area Index is the total leaf surface area per unit ground area.\n\nHemispherical photography entails five steps: photograph acquisition, digitization, registration, classification, and calculation. Registration, classification, and calculation are accomplished using dedicated hemispherical photography analysis software.\n\nUpward-looking hemispherical photographs are typically acquired under uniform sky lighting, early or late in the day or under overcast conditions. Known orientation (zenith and azimuth) is essential for proper registration with the analysis hemispherical coordinate system. Even lighting is essential for accurate image classification. A self-leveling mount (gimbals) can facilitate acquisition by ensuring that the camera is oriented to point straight up toward the zenith. The camera is typically oriented such that north (absolute or magnetic) is oriented toward the top of the photograph.\n\nThe lens used in hemispherical photography is generally a circular fisheye lens, such as the Nikkor 8mm fisheye lens. Full-frame fisheye lenses are \"not\" suitable for hemispherical photography, as they only capture a full 180° across the diagonal, and do not provide a complete hemispherical view.\n\nIn the early years of the technique, most hemispherical photographs were acquired with 35 mm cameras (e.g., Nikon FM2 with a Nikkor 8mm fisheye lens) using high contrast, high ASA black-and-white film. Later, use of color film or slides became common. Recently most photographs are acquired using digital cameras (e.g., Kodak DCS Pro 14nx with a Nikkor 8mm fisheye lens).\n\nWhen images are acquired from locations with large differences in openness (for example, closed canopy locations and canopy gaps) it is essential to control camera exposure. If the camera is allowed to automatically adjust exposure (which is controlled by aperture and shutter speed), the result is that small openings in closed conditions will be bright, whereas openings of the same size in open conditions will be darker (for example, canopy areas around a gap). This means that during image analysis the same-sized holes will be interpreted as \"sky\" in a closed-canopy image and \"canopy\" in the open-canopy image. Without controlling exposure, the real differences between closed- and open-canopy conditions will be underestimated.\n\nPhotographs are digitized and saved in standard image formats. For film cameras this step requires a negative or slide scanner or a video digitizer. For digital cameras this step occurs as photographs are acquired.\n\nPhotograph registration involves aligning the photographs with the hemispherical coordinate system used for analysis, in terms of translation (centering), size (coincidence of photograph edges and horizon in coordinate system), and rotation (azimuthal alignment with respect to compass directions).\n\nPhotograph classification involves determining which image pixels represent visible (non-obscured) versus non-visible (obscured) sky directions. Typically this has been accomplished using interactive thresholding, whereby an appropriate threshold is selected to best match a binary classification with observed sky visibility, with pixel intensity values above the threshold classified as visible and pixel intensity values below the threshold classified as non-visible. Recently advances have been made in developing automatic threshold algorithms, however more work is still needed before these are fully reliable.\n\nHemispherical photograph calculation uses algorithms that compute gap fraction as function of sky direction, and compute desired canopy geometry and/or solar radiation indices. For solar radiation, rapid calculation is often accomplished using pre-calculated lookup tables of theoretical or empirical solar radiation values resolved by sky sector or position in the sunpath.\n\n\nAnderson, M.C. 1964. Studies of the woodland light climate I. The photographic computation of light condition. \"Journal of Ecology\" 52:27-41.\n\nAnderson, M.C. 1971. Radiation and crop structure. pp. 77–90. In: Z. Sestak, J. Catsky and P. G. Jarvis (eds). \"Plant Photosynthetic Production Manual of Methods\". Junk. The Hague.\n\nBecker, P., D. W. Erhart, and A. P. Smith. 1989. Analysis of forest light environments Part I. Computerized estimation of solar radiation from hemispherical canopy photographs. \"Agricultural and Forest Meteorology\" 44:217-232.\n\nBellingham, P.J., E.V.J. Tanner, P.M. Rich, and T.C.R. Goodland. 1996. Changes in light below the canopy of a Jamaican montane rain forest after a hurricane. \"Journal of Tropical Ecology\" 12:699–722.\n\nBonhomme, R., C. Varlet Granger, and P. Chartier. 1974. The use of hemispherical photographs for determining the leaf area index of young crops. \"Photosynthetica\" 8:299-301.\n\nBreshears, D.D., P.M. Rich, F.J. Barnes, and K. Campbell. 1997. Overstory–imposed heterogeneity in solar radiation and soil moisture in a semiarid woodland. \"Ecological Applications\" 7:1201–1215.\n\nChazdon R.L. and C.B. Field. 1987. Photographic estimation of photosynthetically active radiation: evaluation of a computerized technique. \"Oecologia\" 73: (4) 525-532.\n\nChen, J.M., and J. Cihlar. 1995. Plant canopy gap size analysis theory for improving optical measurements of leaf area index. \"Applied Optics\" 34, 6211-6222.\n\nChen, J.M., and T.A. Black. 1992. Defining leaf area index for non-flat leaves. \"Plant, Cell and Environment\" 15:421-429.\n\nChen, J.M., P.M. Rich, S.T. Gower, J.M. Norman, and S. Plummer. 1997. Leaf area index of boreal forests: theory, techniques, and measurements. \"Journal of Geophysical Research, BOREAS Special Issue\" 102(D24):29429–29444.\n\nChen, J.M., T.A. Black, and R.S. Adams. 1991. Evaluation of hemispherical photography for determining plant area index and geometry of a forest stand. \"Agricultural and Forest Meteorology\" 56:129-143.\n\nClark, D.B., D.A. Clark, and P.M. Rich. 1993. Comparative analysis of microhabitat utilization by saplings of nine tree species in neotropical rain forest. \"Biotropica\" 25:397–407.\n\nClark, D.B., D.A. Clark, P.M. Rich, S.B. Weiss, and S.F. Oberbauer. 1996. Landscape–scale evaluation of understory light and canopy structure: methods and application in a neotropical lowland rain forest. \"Canadian Journal of Forest Research\" 26:747–757.\n\nEvans, G.D., and D.E. Coombe. 1959. Hemispherical and woodland canopy photography and the light climate. \"Journal of Ecology\" 47:103-113.\n\nFournier, R.A., P.M. Rich, and R. Landry. 1997. Hierarchical characterization of canopy architecture for boreal forest. \"Journal of Geophysical Research, BOREAS Special Issue\" 102(D24):29445–29454.\n\nFournier, R.A., P.M. Rich, Y.R. Alger, V.L. Peterson, R. Landry, and N.M. August. 1995. Canopy architecture of boreal forests: links between remote sensing and ecology. \"American Society for Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing Technical Papers\" 2:225-235.\n\nGalo, A.T., P.M. Rich, and J.J. Ewel. 1992. Effects of forest edges on the solar radiation regime in a series of reconstructed tropical ecosystems. \"American Society for Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing Technical Papers\". pp 98–108.\n\nGower, S.T. and J.M. Norman. 1991. Rapid estimation of leaf area index in forests using the LI-COR LAI-2000. \"Ecology\" 72:1896-1900.\n\nHill, R. 1924. A lens for whole sky photographs. \"Quarterly Journal of the Royal Meteorological Society\" 50:227-235.\n\nInoue, A., K. Yamamoto, N. Mizoue and Y. Kawahara. 2004. Effects of image quality, size and camera type on forest light environment estimates using digital hemispherical photography. \"Agricultural and Forest Meteorology\" 126:89-97.\n\nInoue, A., K. Yamamoto, N. Mizoue and Y. Kawahara. 2004. Calibrating view angle and lens distortion of the Nikon fish-eye converter FC-E8. \"Journal of Forest Research\" 9:177-181.\n\nInoue, A., K. Yamamoto, N. Mizoue and Y. Kawahara. 2002. Estimation of relative illuminance using digital hemispherical photography. \"Journal of Forest Planning\" 8:67-70.\n\nInoue, A. 1999. Difference in diffuse site factors due to spatial distribution of sky luminance. \"Journal of Forest Planning\" 5:29-33.\n\nJarčuška, B. 2008. Methodical overview to hemispherical photography, demonstrated on an example of the software GLA. \"Folia Oecologica\" 35:66–69. \n\nLandry, R., R.A. Fournier, F.J. Ahern, and R.H. Lang. 1997. Tree Vectorization: a methodology to characterize tree architecture in support of remote sensing models. \"Canadian Journal of Remote Sensing\" 23:91-107.\n\nLang, A.R.G. 1986. Leaf area and average leaf angle from transmittance of direct sunlight. \"Australian Journal of Botany\" 34:349-355.\n\nLang, A.R.G., R.E. McMurtrie, and M.L. Benson. 1991. Validity of surface area indices of Pinus radiata estimated from transmittance of the sun's beam. \"Agricultural and Forest Meteorology\" 37:229-243.\n\nLerdau, M.T., Holbrook, N.M., H.A. Mooney, P.M. Rich, and J.L. Whitbeck. 1992. Seasonal patterns of acid fluctuations and resource storage in the arborescent cactus Opuntia excelsa in relation to light availability and size. \"Oecologia\" 92:166-171.\n\nLin, T., P.M. Rich, D.A. Heisler, and F.J. Barnes. 1992. Influences of canopy geometry on near-ground solar radiation and water balances of pinyon-juniper and ponderosa pine woodlands. \"American Society for Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing Technical Papers\". pp. 285–294.\n\nMiller, J.B. 1967. A formula for average foliage density. \"Australian Journal of Botany\" 15:141-144.\n\nMitchell, P.L. and T.C. Whitmore. 1993. \"Use of hemispherical photographs in forest ecology: calculation of absolute amount of radiation beneath the canopy\". Oxford Forestry Institute. Oxford, United Kingdom.\n\nNeumann, H.H., G.D. Den Hartog, and R.H. Shaw. 1989. Leaf area measurements based on hemispheric photographs and leaf-litter collection in a deciduous forest during autumn leaf-fall. \"Agricultural and Forest Meteorology\" 45:325-345.\n\nNorman, J. M. and G. S. Campbell 1989. Canopy structure. pp. 301–326. In: R. W. Pearcy, J. Ehleringer, H. A. Mooney, and P. W. Rundel (eds). \"Plant physiological ecology: field methods and instrumentation\". Chapman and Hall. London.\n\nOberbauer, S.F., D.B. Clark, D.A. Clark, P.M. Rich, and G. Vega. 1993. Light environment, gas exchange, and annual growth of saplings of three species of rain forest trees in Costa Rica. \"Journal of Tropical Ecology\" 9:511–523.\n\nPearcy, R.W. 1989. Radiation and light measurements. pp. 95–116. In: R.W. Pearcy, J. Ehleringer, H.A. Mooney, and P.W. Rundel (eds), Plant \"Physiological Ecology: Field Methods and Instrumentation\". Chapman and Hall. New York.\n\nReifsnyder, W.E. 1967. Radiation geometry in the measurement and interpretation of radiation balance. \"Agricultural and Forest Meteorology\" 4:255-265.\n\nRich, P.M. 1988. Video image analysis of hemispherical canopy photography. In: P.W. Mausel (ed), \"First Special Workshop on Videography\". Terre Haute, Indiana. May 19–20, 1988, 'American Society for Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing', pp. 84–95.\n\nRich, P.M. 1989. A manual for analysis of hemispherical canopy photography. \"Los Alamos National Laboratory Report\" LA-11733-M. \n\nRich, P.M. 1990. Characterizing plant canopies with hemispherical photographs. In: N.S. Goel and J.M. Norman (eds), Instrumentation for studying vegetation canopies for remote sensing in optical and thermal infrared regions. \" Remote Sensing Reviews\" 5:13-29.\n\nRich, P.M., D.A. Clark, D.B. Clark, and S.F. Oberbauer. 1993. Long–term study of solar radiation regimes in a tropical wet forest using quantum sensors and hemispherical photography. \"Agricultural and Forest Meteorology\" 65:107–127.\n\nRich, P.M., R. Dubayah, W.A. Hetrick, and S.C. Saving. 1994. Using viewshed models to calculate intercepted solar radiation: applications in ecology. \"American Society for Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing Technical Papers\". pp 524–529.\n\nRich, P.M., D.M. Ranken, and J.S. George. 1989. A manual for microcomputer image analysis. \"Los Alamos National Laboratory Report\" LA–11732–M. \n\nRich, P.M., J. Chen, S.J. Sulatycki, R. Vashisht, and W.S. Wachspress. 1995. Calculation of leaf area index and other canopy indices from gap fraction: a manual for the LAICALC software. \"Kansas Applied Remote Sensing Program Open File Report\". Lawrence, KS. \n\nRich, P.M., J. Wood, D.A. Vieglais, K. Burek, and N. Webb. 1999. \"Guide to HemiView: software for analysis of hemispherical photography\". Delta–T Devices, Ltd., Cambridge, England.\n\nRich, P.M., N.M. Holbrook, and N. Luttinger. 1995. Leaf development and crown geometry of two iriarteoid palms. \"American Journal of Botany\" 82:328–336.\n\nShaw, D.C., and S.B. Weiss. 2000. Canopy light and the distribution of hemlock dwarf mistletoe (\"Arceuthobium tsugenses\" [Rosendahl] G.N. Jones subsp. \"tsugense\") aerial shoots in an old-growth Douglas-fir/western hemlock forest. \"Northwest Science\" 74:306-315\n\nTurner, I.M. 1990. Tree seedling growth and survival in a Malaysian rain forest. \"Biotropica\", 22:146-154.\n\nTurton, S.M. 1988. Solar radiation regimes in a north Queensland rainforest. \"Proceedings of the Ecological Society of Australia\", 15:101-105.\n\nWeiss, S.B. 2000. Vertical and temporal patterns of insolation in an old-growth forest. \"Canadian Journal of Forest Research\" 30:1953-1964\n\nWeiss, S.B., P.M. Rich, D.D. Murphy, W.H. Calvert, P.R. Ehrlich. 1991. Forest canopy structure at overwintering monarch butterfly sites: measurements with hemispherical photography. \"Conservation Biology\" 5:165-175.\n\nWeiss, S.B., and D.C. Luth. 2002. Assessment of overwintering monarch butterfly habitat at Cooper Grove (Andrew Molera State Park, Monterey County, CA) using hemispherical photography. \"Creekside Center for Earth Observation Report\", Menlo Park, CA.\n\nWeiss, S.B., D.C. Luth, and B. Guerra. 2003. Potential solar radiation in a VSP trellis at 38°N latitude. \"Practical Winery and Vineyard\" 25:16-27.\n\nWeiss, S.B., et al. 2005. Topoclimate and microclimate in the Monarch Butterfly Biosphere Reserve (Mexico). World Wildlife Fund Project. \"Creekside Center for Earth Observation Report\", Menlo Park, CA.\n\nWelles, J.M. 1990. Some indirect methods of estimating canopy structure. \"Remote Sensing Reviews\" 5:31-43.\n"}
{"id": "16928831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16928831", "title": "Heterotopia (space)", "text": "Heterotopia (space)\n\nHeterotopia is a concept elaborated by philosopher Michel Foucault to describe certain cultural, institutional and discursive spaces that are somehow ‘other’: disturbing, intense, incompatible, contradictory or transforming. Heterotopias are worlds within worlds, mirroring and yet upsetting what is outside. Foucault provides examples: ships, cemeteries, brothels, prisons, gardens of antiquity, fairs, Turkish baths and many more. Foucault outlines the notion of heterotopia on three occasions between 1966-67. A talk given to a group of architects is the most well-known explanation of the term. His first mention of the concept is in his \"preface\" to 'The Order of Things' and refers to texts rather than socio-cultural spaces.\n\nHeterotopia follows the template established by the notions of utopia and dystopia. The prefix hetero- is from Ancient Greek ἕτερος (héteros, \"other, another, different\") and is combined with the Greek morpheme τόπος (\"place\") and means \"other place\". A utopia is an idea or an image that is not real but represents a perfected version of society, such as Thomas More's book or Le Corbusier's drawings. As Walter Russell Mead has written, \"Utopia is a place where everything is good; dystopia is a place where everything is bad; heterotopia is where things are different — that is, a collection whose members have few or no intelligible connections with one another.\"\n\nFoucault uses the term \"heterotopia\" () to describe spaces that have more layers of meaning or relationships to other places than immediately meet the eye. In general, a heterotopia is a physical representation or approximation of a utopia, or a parallel space (such as a prison) that contains undesirable bodies to make a real utopian space impossible.\n\nFoucault explains the link between utopias and heterotopias using the metaphor of a mirror. A mirror is a utopia because the image reflected is a 'placeless place', an unreal virtual place that allows one to see one's own visibility. However, the mirror is also a heterotopia, in that it is a real object. The heterotopia of the mirror \nis at once absolutely real, relating with the real space surrounding it, and absolutely unreal, creating a virtual image. \n\nFoucault articulates several possible types of heterotopia or spaces that exhibit dual meanings: \n\nFoucault's elaborations on heterotopias were published in an article entitled \"Des espaces autres\" (Of Other Spaces). The philosopher calls for a society with many heterotopias, not only as a space with several places of/for the affirmation of difference, but also as a means of escape from authoritarianism and repression, stating metaphorically that if we take the ship as the utmost heterotopia, a society without ships is inherently a repressive one, in a clear reference to Stalinism.\n\nHuman geographers often connected to the postmodernist school have been using the term (and the author's propositions) to help understand the contemporary emergence of (cultural, social, political, economic) difference and identity as a central issue in larger multicultural cities. The idea of \"place\" (more often related to ethnicity and gender and less often to the social class issue) as a heterotopic entity has been gaining attention in the current context of postmodern, post-structuralist theoretical discussion (and political practice) in Geography and other spatial social sciences. The concept of a heterotopia has also been discussed in relation to the space in which learning takes place. There is an extensive debate with theorists, such as David Harvey, that remain focused on the matter of class domination as the central determinant of social heteronomy.\n\nThe geographer Edward Soja has worked with this concept in dialogue with the works of Henri Lefebvre concerning urban space in the book \"Thirdspace\".\n\nMary Franklin-Brown uses the concept of heterotopia in an epistemological context to examine the thirteenth century encyclopedias of Vincent of Beauvais and Ramon Llull as conceptual spaces where many possible ways of knowing are brought together without attempting to reconcile them.\n\nNew Media scholar Hye Jean Chung applies the concept of heterotopia to describe the multiple superimposed layers of spaciality and temporality observed in highly digitized audiovisual media. A heterotopic perception of digital media is, according to Chung, to grasp the globally dispersed labor structure of multinational capitalism that produces the audiovisual representations of various spacio-temporalities. \n\nThe concept of heterotopia has had a significant impact on literature, especially science fiction, fantasy and other speculative genres. Many readers consider the worlds of China Miéville and other weird fiction writers to be heterotopias insofar as they are worlds of radical difference transparent or of indifference to their inhabitants. Samuel Delany's 1976 novel \"Trouble on Triton\" is subtitled \"An Ambiguous Heterotopia\" and was written partly in dialogue with Ursula K. Le Guin's science fiction novel \"The Dispossessed\", which is subtitled \"An Ambiguous Utopia\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "629237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=629237", "title": "Ifriqiya", "text": "Ifriqiya\n\nIfriqiya or Ifriqiyah ( ') or el-Maghrib el-Adna (Lower West) was the area during medieval history that comprises what is today Tunisia, Tripolitania (western Libya) and the Constantinois (eastern Algeria); all part of what was previously included in the Africa Province of the Roman Empire.\n\nThe southern boundary of Ifriqiya was far more unchallenged as bounded by the semi-arid areas and the salt marshes called el-Djerid. The northern and western boundaries fluctuated; at times as far north as Sicily otherwise just along the coastline, and the western boundary usually went as far as Béjaïa. The capital was briefly Carthage, then Qayrawan (Kairouan), then Mahdia, then Tunis. The Arabs generally settled on the lower ground while the native population settled in the mountains.\n\nThe Aghlabids, from their base in Kairouan, initiated the invasion of Sicily beginning in 827 and establishing the Emirate of Sicily, which lasted until it was conquered by the Normans.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n(\"invasion of the Banu Hilal (1057) — Kairouan destroyed, Zirids reduced to the main coastal cities, rural areas fragments into petty Bedouin emirates) \"\n(\"Ifriqiyan coast annexed by Norman Sicily\" (1143–1160)) <br>\n\n(\"All of Ifriqiya conquered and annexed by the Almohads\" (1160))\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3023723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3023723", "title": "Ilhéu Bom Bom", "text": "Ilhéu Bom Bom\n\nIlhéu Bom Bom is an island in the Gulf of Guinea. The islet is located near the north coast of the island of Príncipe, one of the main islands of São Tomé and Príncipe and is almost completely forested. Its population is 15 (2008 est.). There is a tourist resort near the island. There is a lighthouse on the island built in 1997. Its focal height is 64 meters and its range is .\nSince 2012, it forms a part of the UNESCO's Island of Príncipe Biosphere Reserve.\n"}
{"id": "19008621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19008621", "title": "Index of Akrotiri and Dhekelia-related articles", "text": "Index of Akrotiri and Dhekelia-related articles\n\nThis page lists topics related to Akrotiri and Dhekelia, two British Overseas Territories on the island of Cyprus.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20650929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20650929", "title": "Index of Brazil-related articles", "text": "Index of Brazil-related articles\n\nThe following is an alphabetical list of articles related to the Federative Republic of Brazil ().\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7644918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7644918", "title": "Index of Somalia-related articles", "text": "Index of Somalia-related articles\n\nThe following is an index of Somalia-related articles.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53113442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53113442", "title": "James Macqueen", "text": "James Macqueen\n\nJames Macqueen (1778-1870) — sometimes MacQueen — was a Scottish geographer, statistician, political campaigner, pro-slavery and pro-Empire activist, banker and businessman, noted for founding the Colonial Bank and the Royal Mail Steam Packet Company. An expert on African geography, he advocated the colonisation of that continent many decades before the so-called \"Scramble for Africa\" (1881-1914). He was co-owner and editor of the \"Glasgow Courier\"; wrote in London on politics, geography, economics, and general literature; and founded a bank in Mauritius.\n\nAlthough Macqueen had no academic education, professional training or qualifications, his amateur energy and enthusiasm, in several fields, made him a prominent, and controversial figure. He quickly lost interest in many of the projects he started. He had extensive correspondence with the Royal Geographical Society, and many of his memoirs were published in its \"Journal\" and \"Proceedings\".\n\nMacqueen was born in Crawford, Lanarkshire, Scotland, in 1778 and had become manager of a sugar estate on Grenada by 1797. The British Admiralty postal sailing brigs were considered to be slow and unreliable by the colonial community, so on his return to Glasgow in 1830 he started a campaign for a steamship mail service to the West Indies. The government eventually decided to fund the project, and in 1839 the Royal Mail Steam Packet Company was granted a royal charter. In 1840 the Admiralty awarded it a contract to deliver mail to the West Indian colonies, with the first departure from Falmouth, Cornwall, on 3 January 1842. The mail network expanded and the company operated services within the West Indies and to New York and Halifax.\n\nMacqueen died on 14 May 1870 at 10 Norton Street, Kensington (some sources say at Bury Street, St James). He died, aged 92, in poverty, and his 59 year old widow Jean was forced to survive on charitable handouts from fellows of the Royal Geographical Society.\n\n"}
{"id": "16846323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16846323", "title": "Kazimierz Sosnowski", "text": "Kazimierz Sosnowski\n\nKazimierz Sosnowski (1875–1954) was a Polish geographer.\n"}
{"id": "19109840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19109840", "title": "Kirsty Duncan", "text": "Kirsty Duncan\n\nKirsty Ellen Duncan (born October 31, 1966) is a Canadian politician and medical geographer from Ontario, Canada. Duncan is the Member of Parliament (MP) for the Liberal Party of Canada in the Toronto riding of Etobicoke North and was appointed Minister of Science, on the advice of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, on November 4, 2015. In January 2018, she also became Minister of Sport and Persons with Disabilities.\n\nShe is also currently an adjunct professor at the University of Toronto and has published a book about her 1998 expedition to uncover the cause of the 1918 Spanish flu epidemic.\n\nAfter graduating from Kipling Collegiate Institute in 1985 as an Ontario Scholar, Duncan studied geography and anthropology at the University of Toronto. She then entered graduate school at the University of Edinburgh in Scotland, and completed a Ph.D. in geography in 1992.\n\nFrom 1993 to 2000, Duncan taught meteorology, climatology and climate change at the University of Windsor. In 1992, as she became aware of the increasing probability of a global flu crisis, she was led to investigate the cause of the similar 1918 Spanish flu pandemic, saying, \"I was horrified we didn’t know what caused [Spanish flu], and also knew that if we could find fragments of the virus, we might be able to find a better flu vaccine\".\n\nThough at the time she \"knew nothing about influenza\", she began what she called a \"six-month crash course in virology\". Eventually, she began searching for possible frozen samples of lung and brain tissue that might contain the virus. Her initial thoughts led her to think of Alaska, as it contains large areas of permafrost, which would leave the viruses intact, but the search proved fruitless.\n\nEventually, after several years of searching, Duncan learned of seven miners who had died from the Spanish flu and were buried in the small town of Longyearbyen, Norway, an area that would contain permafrost. She then began assembling a team of scientists to accompany her. After several more years of preparation, which involved garnering various permissions to perform the exhumations, the ground survey began in 1998. However, the samples were not viable, as the bodies were not in the permafrost, and the expedition ultimately proved a disappointment.\n\nIn 2003, Duncan wrote a book about her expedition, entitled \"Hunting the 1918 Flu: One Scientist's Search for a Killer Virus\". Published by the University of Toronto Press, it details Duncan's process and the expedition itself. After the book's publication, Duncan began speaking about pandemics, which led her to begin teaching corporate social responsibility at the University of Toronto's Rotman School of Management. In 2008, Duncan published a second book, \"Environment and Health: Protecting our Common Future\".\n\nDuncan is currently an adjunct professor teaching both medical geography at the University of Toronto and global environmental processes at Royal Roads University, and served on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, an organization that won the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize with Al Gore.\n\nIn 2018 the University of Edinburgh awarded her an honorary degree.\n\nIn February 2008, Roy Cullen announced that he would not be running in the next federal election, and Duncan was appointed as the next Liberal candidate. She was considered a \"significant addition toward Dion's goal of fielding 103 women candidates in the next election.\" She was elected in the 2008 general election and re-elected in the 2011 and 2015 general elections.\n\nOn November 4, 2015, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau appointed her to the Cabinet as Minister of Science. Duncan was tasked with establishing the new position of chief science officer that would serve as a replacement to the position of national science adviser role eliminated by Stephen Harper in 2008.\n\nIn January 2018, she also became Minister of Sport and Persons with Disabilities, after the resignation of her predecessor, Kent Hehr.\n\n"}
{"id": "12918645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12918645", "title": "List of cities in French Polynesia", "text": "List of cities in French Polynesia\n\nThe following is a list of cities in French Polynesia:\n\n"}
{"id": "33535417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33535417", "title": "List of flag bearers for the Cook Islands at the Olympics", "text": "List of flag bearers for the Cook Islands at the Olympics\n\nThis is a list of flag bearers who have represented the Cook Islands at the Olympics.\n\nFlag bearers carry the national flag of their country at the opening ceremony of the Olympic Games.\n\n"}
{"id": "57327872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57327872", "title": "List of metropolitan areas in Ireland", "text": "List of metropolitan areas in Ireland\n\nA list of metropolitan areas located on the island of Ireland.\n"}
{"id": "53716347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53716347", "title": "List of universities in Tokelau", "text": "List of universities in Tokelau\n\nThis is a list of universities in Tokelau.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4560576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4560576", "title": "Luiza Bialasiewicz", "text": "Luiza Bialasiewicz\n\nLuiza Bialasiewicz (born 14 August 1971, Warsaw)is an Italian political geographer (from Polish descent) and Jean Monnet Professor of EU External Relations in the Department of European Studies at the University of Amsterdam. Before moving to Amsterdam in 2011, she was Senior Lecturer in the Department of Geography at Royal Holloway, and prior to that, Lecturer in the Department of Geography at the University of Durham. Bialasiewicz obtained her Ph.D. from the University of Colorado at Boulder.\n\nBialasiewicz's work focuses on the political geographies of European integration and on European borders, with a particular focus on the 'geographical imaginations' of European belonging, within and beyond the territorial confines of Europe, and the role of Europe in the wider world. Her most recent research has examined EU border management and EU geopolitics, looking specifically at the role of third states in the 'out-sourcing' of EU border controls in the Mediterranean. Her work also engages with the historical geographies of Mediterranean cities, Trieste, Tangiers and Alexandria in particular.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41651057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41651057", "title": "Maniava waterfall", "text": "Maniava waterfall\n\nManiava waterfall () is the highest waterfall in the Carpathians and is located in the Gorgany mountain ridge in Ukraine. \n\nManiava waterfall is located on the Maniavka river, about south of Maniava, Bohorodchanskyi Raion, Ivano-Frankivska oblast. \n\nIt is nearly high. Near the waterfall is a canyon that is approximately long with rocks up to high.\n\nThe waterfall also boasts a small lake, where the water remains cool even in hot season. Fir and beech forests line the waterfall creating a very beautiful and tranquil environment. The waterfall turns a little wild following heavy rainfall or the monsoon with frequent flash floods. In winter months frozen ice appear like chimeras with an enchanting effect on the visitors who frequent the place, now and again.\n\n"}
{"id": "39378159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39378159", "title": "Military sketching board", "text": "Military sketching board\n\nThe military sketching board was designed to be used on horseback. The board incorporates a compass, an inclinometer, a ruler, a roll of paper and an arm buckle.\n\nThe board was designed to be strapped to the arm of a cavalryman on the arm that he held the horses bridle with. The board is attached to the leather buckle with a swivel joint. This means that the user can twist the whole board on their arm to ensure that the compass alignment is clear. The board incorporates a compass for this purpose. The user can then use the supplied ruler. In earlier versions this was attached with rubber bands but later versions had the ruler permanently attached. The paper was about long and was rolled around one of the side rollers. As a sketch was completed then the paper roll was advanced to supply more clear paper. On the back of the board is an Inclinometer to allow the severity of ascents to be recorded.\n\nThe board was originally designed by Colonel W H Richards, who taught military surveying at the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst in about 1880 before he went on to teach in India. The board was improved by Major (later Colonel) William Willoughby Cole Verner who had briefly Professor of Topography at the Sandhurst. He patented improvements in 1887 and 1891 and the board became known as \"Verner's\". Verner published his own guide to the sketching board in 1889. However the board was not universally loved and some referred to it as \"The damnable cavalry sketching board\".\n\nIn the 1930s very similar devices were used by solo aviators. The device was strapped to the arm or leg and was loaded with maps rather than sketching paper.\n\nOne of these devices is in the collection of the National Museums of Scotland.\n"}
{"id": "3228580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3228580", "title": "Mrugavani National Park", "text": "Mrugavani National Park\n\nMrugavani National Park is a national park located in Hyderabad, Telangana State. It is situated at Chilkur in Moinabad mandal, 20 km from MGBS and covers an area of or 1211 acres. It is home to a 600 different types of plant life. The Park is home to around 350 spotted deers. The animals include: indian hare, forest cat, civet, Indian rat snake, Russell's viper, cheetal and the flower pecker.\n\nIt was declared as a National Park in 1994.\n\nTeak, Bamboo, Sandal, Picus, Palas, Rela.\n\nCheetal, Sambar, Wild boar, Jungle Cat, Civet Cat, Mongoose Monitor Lizard, Python, Russell Viper, King Cobra\n\nThe Park is in near Chilkur Balaji Temple, about 20 km by road from MGBS\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9893695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9893695", "title": "Notice to mariners", "text": "Notice to mariners\n\nA notice to mariners (NTM) advises mariners of important matters affecting navigational safety, including new hydrographic information, changes in channels and aids to navigation, and other important data.\n\nOver 60 countries which produce nautical charts also\nproduce a notice to mariners. About one third of these are\nweekly, another third are bi-monthly or monthly, and the\nrest irregularly issued according to need. For example, the United Kingdom Hydrographic Office issues weekly updates.\n\nThe U.S. \"Notice to Mariners\" is made available weekly by the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA), prepared jointly with the National Ocean Service (NOS) and the U.S. Coast Guard. The information in the \"Notice to Mariners\" is formatted to simplify the correction of paper charts, \"List of Lights\", \"Light Lists\", \"United States Coast Pilots\", and other publications produced by NGA, NOS, and the U.S. Coast Guard.\n\nInformation for the \"Notice to Mariners\" is contributed\nby: the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (Department of Defense) for waters\noutside the territorial limits of the United States; National\nOcean Service (National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration,\nDepartment of Commerce), which is charged\nwith surveying and charting the coasts and harbors of the\nUnited States and its territories; the U.S. Coast Guard (Department of Homeland Security) which is responsible for the safety of life at sea and the establishment and operation of aids to navigation; and the Army Corps of Engineers (Department of Defense), which is charged with the\nimprovement of rivers and harbors of the United States. In\naddition, important contributions are made by foreign hydrographic\noffices and cooperating observers of all\nnationalities.\n\nThe Notice consists of a page of Hydrograms listing\nimportant items in the Notice, a chart correction\nsection organized by ascending chart number, a product catalog corrections section, a publications\ncorrection section, a summary of broadcast\nnavigation warnings, and a page of additional miscellaneous information. It is the responsibility of users to decide which of their\ncharts and publications require correction.\nMariners are requested to cooperate in the correction of\ncharts and publications by reporting all discrepancies between\npublished information and conditions actually\nobserved and by recommending appropriate improvements. A reporting form is provided in the back of each\n\"Notice to Mariners\".\n\nIssue No. 1 of each year contains important\ninformation on a variety of subjects which supplements\ninformation not usually found on charts and in navigational\npublications. This information is published as Special Notice\nto Mariners Paragraphs. Additional items considered\nof interest to the mariner are also included in this Notice.\n\nMuch of the data\nin the U.S. \"Notice to Mariners\" is obtained from foreign\nnotices.\n\nIn Canada, the Canadian Coast Guard (CCG) Notice to Mariners publication informs mariners of important navigational safety matters affecting Canadian Waters. This electronic publication is published on a monthly basis and can be downloaded from the Notices to Mariners (NOTMAR) Web site. The information in the Notice to Mariners is formatted to simplify the correction of paper charts and navigational publications.\n\nThe NOTMAR.gc.ca site is a free 24/7 service providing mariners with up-to-date safety advisories. It provides mariners with a quick and easy to use interface to access Notices to Mariners information. This system also generates weekly and monthly notification mailers, for its registered users. These on-line mail services provides the monthly Notices to Mariners publications as well as the weekly(section II - chart corrections) notices that advise the mariner of the notices that have been issued against their chart selections. These mail services simplify the process for registered clients to update their publications and charts as required under the Canada Shipping Act.\n\nThe NOTMAR web site also includes the historical Chart corrections and historical Sailing Direction corrections; as well, it provides access to downloadable Chart Patches, contains links to CHS’s Chart Number 1, instructions for applying Notices to mariners to manually update their paper charts, and other useful information.\n\nA close companion to the \"Notice to Mariners\" is the Summary of Corrections. The \"Summary\" is published in five volumes. Each volume covers a major portion of the earth including several chart regions and many subregions. Volume 5 also includes special charts and publications corrected\nby the \"Notice to Mariners\". Since the Summaries contain cumulative corrections, any chart, regardless of its print date, can be corrected with the proper volume of the Summary and all subsequent \"Notice to Mariners\".\n\n\nThe text of this article originated from sections 418 and 419 of The American Practical Navigator, a document produced by the government of the United States of America.\n\n"}
{"id": "16278531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16278531", "title": "Outline of the Cayman Islands", "text": "Outline of the Cayman Islands\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to the Cayman Islands:\n\nCayman Islands – British overseas territory located in the western Caribbean Sea, comprising the islands of Grand Cayman, Cayman Brac, and Little Cayman. It is a tax haven financial centre and one of the many scuba diving destinations in the Caribbean.\n\n\nGeography of the Cayman Islands\n\n\n\nRegions of the Cayman Islands\n\nList of ecoregions in the Cayman Islands\nNone\n\n\nDemographics of the Cayman Islands\n\nPolitics of the Cayman Islands\n\nGovernment of the Cayman Islands\n\n\n\nCourt system of the Cayman Islands\n\nForeign relations of the Cayman Islands\n\nThe government of the Cayman Islands is a member of:\n\nLaw of the Cayman Islands\n\nMilitary of the Cayman Islands\n\nLocal government in the Cayman Islands\n\nHistory of the Cayman Islands\n\nCulture of the Cayman Islands\n\n\nSports in the Cayman Islands\n\nEconomy of the Cayman Islands\n\nEducation in the Cayman Islands\n\nCayman Islands\n\n"}
{"id": "16285807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16285807", "title": "Outline of the Turks and Caicos Islands", "text": "Outline of the Turks and Caicos Islands\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to the Turks and Caicos Islands:\n\nThe Turks and Caicos Islands (TCI) are a British Overseas Territory comprising two groups of tropical islands north of the Caribbean Sea in the North Atlantic Ocean.\n\n\nGeography of the Turks and Caicos Islands\n\n\n\nRegions of the Turks and Caicos Islands\n\nList of ecoregions in the Turks and Caicos Islands\n\nAdministrative divisions of the Turks and Caicos Islands\n\nDistricts of the Turks and Caicos Islands\n\nDemographics of the Turks and Caicos Islands\n\nPolitics of the Turks and Caicos Islands\n\n\nGovernment of the Turks and Caicos Islands\n\n\n\nCourt system of the Turks and Caicos Islands\n\n\nThe government of the Turks and Caicos Islands is a member of:\n\nLaw of the Turks and Caicos Islands\n\nMilitary of the Turks and Caicos Islands\n\nLocal government in the Turks and Caicos Islands\n\nHistory of the Turks and Caicos Islands\n\nCulture of the Turks and Caicos Islands\n\n\nSports in the Turks and Caicos Islands\n\nEconomy of the Turks and Caicos Islands\n\nEducation in the Turks and Caicos Islands\n\n\nTurks and Caicos Islands\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44519206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44519206", "title": "Rein Ahas", "text": "Rein Ahas\n\nRein Ahas (10 December 1966 – 18 February 2018) was an Estonian geographer and a professor at the University of Tartu.\n\nIn 1991 he received his undergraduate degree in Physical Geography and Nature Conservation from the University of Tartu, in 1994 he completed his MSc and in 1999 his PhD, with the thesis \"Spatial and Temporal Variability of Phenological Phases in Estonia\", supervised by Prof. Ülo Mander and Jaan Eilart.\n\n\nvisiting researcher\n\nThe main research topics included spatial mobility of people, travel, urban geography and segregation. Special interest on using and developing mobile positioning based methods. Previous research included the impact of climate change, environmental impact and seasonality.\n\nScientific activities focus to Mobility Lab of University of Tartu.\n\nCo-founder and co-owner of spin-off company Positium LBS.\n\n\nTop 5 cited publications in Google Scholar \n\n"}
{"id": "22149986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22149986", "title": "Remetinec", "text": "Remetinec\n\nRemetinec is a neighborhood in the Novi Zagreb – zapad city district of Zagreb, the capital of Croatia. It is located south of the Remetinec Roundabout and Lanište, west of Trokut and the railway triangle and west of Blato. It has a population of 4,271 (2011).\n\n"}
{"id": "574947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=574947", "title": "Southern Highway (Belize)", "text": "Southern Highway (Belize)\n\nIn Belize, the Southern Highway takes up where the Hummingbird Highway ends and runs from Dangriga to Punta Gorda. It is entirely paved, with the completion of a 10-mile segment between Golden Stream and Big Falls circa 2008-09. The Southern Highway provides important access to a number of Mayan ruins and natural areas. The ancient Mayan sites of Nim Li Punit and Lubaantun are each situated a few miles west of the highway in southern Belize. The Cockscomb Basin Wildlife Sanctuary is several miles west of the highway in south-central Belize.\n\nIn 2011, a project was initiated, and complete by 2015, to extend the Southern Highway 21.4 mi/34.5 km to Jalacte in southwestern Belize.\n"}
{"id": "57571732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57571732", "title": "Stabilized liquid membrane devices", "text": "Stabilized liquid membrane devices\n\nA stabilized liquid membrane device or SLMD is a type of passive sampling device which allows for the in situ, integrative collection of waterborne, labile ionic metal contaminants. By capturing and sequestering metal ions onto its surface continuously over a period of days to weeks, an SLMD can provide an integrative measurement of bioavailable toxic metal ions present in the aqueous environment. As such, they have been used in conjunction with other passive samplers in ecological field studies.\n\nPassive samplers were first developed in the early 1970s to monitor concentrations of airborne contaminants industrial workers might be exposed to, but by the 1990s researchers had developed and utilized passive samplers to monitor contaminants in the aqueous environment. The first type of passive sampler made for use in the aqueous environment was the semipermeable membrane device (SPMD). SPMDs could be used to determine time-weighted average concentrations of hydrophobic organic contaminants, but until the early 2000s passive sampling devices for metal contaminants had not yet emerged.\nMetals in the environment can speciate into different forms. Most metals dissolved in the aqueous environment are present as any of several ionic, complex-ion, and organically bound states. For most toxic metals, bioavailability is greatest for labile metals in their free ionic state. Recognizing the potential usefulness of a passive sampling device that could be used to measure trace amounts of bioavailable toxic metals, researchers at the United States Geological Survey (USGS) and University of Missouri-Columbia began development on a counterpart to SPMDs that could be used to sample for labile metals.\n\nThe outer portion of a SLMD consists of a section of sealed, flat, semi-permeable polyethylene tubing. Sealed inside this tubing is a 1:1 mixture of a hydrophobic metal complexing agent and a long chain organic acid. The organic acid diffuses through the tubing to the outer surface, where the carboxylic acid portion can form stable complexes with calcium and magnesium ions in the water. This allows a waxy layer to slowly accumulate on the outside of the tube. the metal complexing agent continuously mobilizes into this waxy layer, where it can sequester metal ions from the water. The hydrophobic metal complexing agent most commonly used in SLMDs is an alkylated 8-hyroxyquinoline. Oleic acid is commonly used as the other half of the 1:1 hydrophobic reagent mixture, as it readily forms calcium oleates in the aqueous sampling media. In addition to the base device, hydrophobic plastic sheaths are sometimes used to house SLMDs in the field. Variable water flow can alter the sampling rates of metals by SLMDs, making a time-averaged concentration difficult to determine. By allowing liable metal analytes to diffuse to the SLMD's surface while limiting the diffusion of particulate, colloidal, or humic substances, these hydrophobic sheaths help reduce variability of SLMD uptake in faster moving waters.\n\nAfter being deployed for a known time interval, SLMDs can be recovered from the field for analysis. Washing with 20% nitric acid allows for the extraction of accumulated metals, and by using analytical techniques like inductively coupled plasma mass spectroscopy (ICP-MS) or atomic absorption spectroscopy (flame AAS) to measure the concentration of metal in the extract, the amount of metal accumulated by the SLMD can be determined.\n\nSLMDs are known to accumulate cadmium, cobalt, copper, nickel, lead, and zinc, and have been deployed in freshwater monitoring studies by The Washington State Department of Ecology (Ecology) and the USGS.\nEcology deployed SLMDs in upper and lower Indian Creek for 28 and 27 days respectively. Metal concentrations on the SLMDs were used to estimate the true concentration of metals in the creek. The estimated concentration was expressed as a range based on sampling rate of SLMDs as well as the length of exposure. The purpose of the sampling was to investigate potential causes of sublethal effects of young trout and loss of benthic biodiversity in the creek.\n\nToxic metals can be present in the aqueous environment at trace or ultra-trace concentrations, yet still be toxicologically significant and thus cause harm to humans or the environment. Because these concentrations are so low, they would fall beyond the detection limits of most analytical instruments if the media had been sampled using traditional grab samples. Using SLMDs to passively collect metals over an extended period of time allows for trace metals to accumulate to detectable levels, which can give more accurate estimate of aquatic chemistry and contamination. SLMDs also have the advantage of being able to capture pulses of metal contamination that might otherwise go undetected when using grab samples.\nSLMDs are limited to the assessment of labile metals, and cannot be used to monitor for organic contaminants. Further, while the ability of SLMDs to sample copper, zinc, nickel, lead, and cadmium has been repeatedly demonstrated, there has been little laboratory research on their ability to reliably uptake other toxic metals. Still, while laboratory studies on the effectiveness of SLMDs have only investigated copper, zinc, nickel, lead, and cadmium, SLMDs have been used with success in field studies to assess a wider range of metals.\n\n"}
{"id": "11734905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11734905", "title": "Steve Chase", "text": "Steve Chase\n\nDr. Steve Chase is the director of the Advocacy for Social Justice and Sustainability program in the department of Environmental Studies at Antioch University New England. He is an activist, organizer, Quaker, lecturer, and editor.\n\nSteve Chase attended the Metropolitan State University in Minneapolis. He participated in a program of self-designed study, focusing on writing, publishing, social and ecological issues, and non-profit organizational management. Chase earned an MS in Environmental Studies came from Antioch University New England in May 1996. He became the Director of Antioch's Advocacy for Social Justice and Sustainability program (Formerly called the Environmental Advocacy And Organizing program), which he helped found, and used as the subject of his Ph.D. dissertation, in July 2002. The dissertation is entitled \"Activist Training In The Academy:\" Developing a Master’s Program in Environmental Advocacy and Organizing.\" Chase completed his Ph.D. at Antioch in November 2006.\n\nIn 2002-2003, The Robert and Patricia Switzer Foundation awarded Chase with the Switzer Environmental Leadership Grant, which covered his salary for the first year of the new program. In 2003-2004 Chase received the Ella Baker Fellowship to support and promote dialog between leaders in the business, academic, and non-profit arenas in the interest of positive social change.\n\nChase has taught courses in Organizing Social Movements and Campaigns; Corporate Power, Globalization, and Democracy; Organizational Leadership in the Nonprofit World; and Environmental Justice in the Mississippi Delta.\n\nSteve Chase was the guest editor for Orion magazine's Autumn 1996 issue on the theme of \"Nature and Justice\". He has been published in The Trumpeter, Whole Terrain, Z Magazine, Terra Nova, Race, Poverty, and Environment, Environment, Place, and Ethics, and The Journal of Multicultural Environmental Education. \"The Environmental Justice Reader: Politics, Poetics, & Pedagogy\" (University of Arizona Press, 2002 ) included his essay \"Changing the Nature of Environmental Studies: Teaching Environmental Justice to 'Mainstream' Students.' \"\n\nChase is a member of the National Organizers Alliance, and United for a Fair Economy's National Trainers Network. He coordinates the Pacifica Radio Programming Committee at WKNH Radio in Keene and moderates a listserve for the annual National Training for Trainers in Human Rights Education. He has previously served on the editorial boards of Orion magazine, Terra Nova, South End Press, and More Than Money Journal. From 1985 to 1988, Chase worked as the business and marketing manager at Milkweed Editions. He has served on the boards of the Underground Railway Theater, and Bookslinger, Inc. He worked for the Green Party from 1984 to 1986, helped co-found Men Against Rape and Sexism (MARS) in 1980, and was a shop steward for the International Typographical Union, Local 9, in 1984.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38190813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38190813", "title": "Stocksundet", "text": "Stocksundet\n\nStocksundet is a strait in Stockholm County in Sweden. It connects the Edsviken sea inlet, to the west, with the Lilla Värtan strait and eventually the Baltic sea, to the east. The strait also forms the border between the suburb of Stocksund in Danderyd Municipality, to the north, and the suburb of Bergshamra in Solna Municipality, to the south. The strait is approximately long and varies in width between and , whilst its depth varies between and . \n\nStocksundet is supposed to have received its name from the logs (Swedish: \"stock\") which used to be laid out in the water to stop invading ships in the early Middle Ages. This name then led to the place name of \"Stocksund\", on the north side of the sound, and to the heraldry shield of the then Stocksund Municipality between 1955 and 1966.\n\nBy the 1400s, the road between Roslagen and Stockholm crossed Stocksundet, and by the 17th century, a ferry was provided. In 1716 the first bridge across the Stocksundet was built, principally to facilitate the movement of troops to the west in the event of an attack by Russia. Since then, there have been a total of seven bridges built across the strait.\n\nFrom west to east, the strait is spanned by a bridge for the Stockholm metro, a road bridge for the European route E18, and a bridge for the Roslagsbanan narrow gauge commuter railway. Over time there have been seven bridges across the Stocksundet:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25043268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25043268", "title": "Subdivisions of Eswatini", "text": "Subdivisions of Eswatini\n\nEswatini is divided into four regions:\n\nEach region is further divided into tinkhundla. There are 55 tinkhundla in Swaziland and each elects one representative to the House of Assembly of Swaziland. Tinkhundla are, in turn, divided into smaller imiphakatsi.\n"}
{"id": "43768471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43768471", "title": "Sur del Lago de Maracaibo", "text": "Sur del Lago de Maracaibo\n\nSur del Lago de Maracaibo (often abbreviated as Sur del Lago, in English South of Maracaibo Lake) is a subregion comprising the territory of the municipalities Jesús María Semprún, Catatumbo, Colón, Francisco Javier Pulgar and Sucre from Zulia state and the municipality Alberto Adriani, Obispo Ramos Lora and the population of Palmarito from Tulio Febres Cordero municipality from the state of Mérida, Venezuela. Its major towns are Santa Barbara del Zulia, San Carlos del Zulia and El Vigia, which represents its economic epicenter.\n\n"}
{"id": "49379115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49379115", "title": "Thomas D. Waldhauser", "text": "Thomas D. Waldhauser\n\nThomas David \"Tom\" Waldhauser (born December 16, 1953) is a United States Marine Corps general who is the Commander of United States Africa Command. He previously served as Director for Joint Force Development, J7 on the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Commanding General, I Marine Expeditionary Force, and Commanding General, U.S. Marine Corps Forces Central Command. Waldhauser is an alumnus of Bemidji State University.\n\nGeneral Waldhauser was born in South St. Paul, Minnesota, and is a graduate of Bemidji State University. He was commissioned in 1976 as an infantry officer through Platoon Leaders Class program via Officer Candidates School. His company grade assignments included platoon and company commander billets with both the 1st and 2nd Marine Divisions; Commanding Officer of the Marine Detachment aboard the USS Long Beach (CGN-9); and staff of the Commander of Amphibious Squadron Seven.\n\nAs a field grade officer, General Waldhauser was a Battalion Landing Team Operations Officer and served on the faculty of the Amphibious Warfare School. During the Amphibious Warfare School tour, he deployed to the staff of the Commander, U.S. Marine Corps Central Command (Forward) during Operation Desert Shield/Desert Storm. \n\nGeneral Waldhauser also served on the II Marine Expeditionary Force staff. He was the Battalion Landing Team Commander of 3rd Battalion, 2nd Marine Regiment. He also had duty at Headquarters, U.S. Marine Corps, and the Pentagon with the Joint Staff Combating Terrorism Directorate (J-34).\n\nAs a Colonel, General Waldhauser assumed command of the 15th MEU (SOC) in 2000. During this tour, the 15th MEU (SOC) participated in combat operations in Southern Afghanistan for Operation Enduring Freedom and in Iraq for Operation Iraqi Freedom.\n\nAppointed to the rank of Brigadier General in 2003, his initial assignments as a General Officer were Commanding General, Marine Corps Warfighting Laboratory, and Deputy Commander, Marine Corps Combat Development Command. From 2006-2007, he served as Chief of Staff, US Special Operations Command, in Tampa, Florida.\n\nAs a Major General, he commanded the First Marine Division from September 2007 until July 2009.\n\nPromoted to Lieutenant General in 2009, General Waldhauser served as the Deputy Commandant for Plans Policies, and Operations during 2009-2010. From October 2010 through September 2012, he served as the Commanding General, I Marine Expeditionary Force, and Commanding General, United States Marine Forces Central Command. Lieutenant General Waldhauser served as the Senior Military Assistant to the Secretary of Defense from October 2012 through September 2013.\n\nGeneral Waldhauser was promoted on 18 July 2016 and became the Commander of US Africa Command in Stuttgart, Germany.\n\nGeneral Waldhauser has attended U.S. Army Ranger School, Jumpmaster School, Amphibious Warfare School, Marine Corps Command and Staff College.\n\nGeneral Waldhauser's decorations and medals include: \n\n"}
{"id": "1114107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1114107", "title": "Toubkal", "text": "Toubkal\n\nToubkal or Tubkal (Berber: ⵜⵓⴳⴳ ⴽⴰⵍ \"Tugg kal\"; \"Tūbqāl\") is a mountain peak in southwestern Morocco, located in the Toubkal National Park. At \n, it is the highest peak in the Atlas Mountains, Morocco, North Africa and the Arab World. It is an ultra prominent peak, the highest for over 2000 km, located 63 km south of the city of Marrakesh, and a popular destination for climbers. \n\nThe first recorded ascent was on 12 June 1923 by the Marquis de Segonzac, Vincent Berger and Hubert Dolbeau, but the mountain may have been climbed before that date.\n\nTrekkers usually approach the mountain from the road-end village of Imlil. Qualified guides can be hired, as well as porters, to carry equipment and food supplies higher into the mountains. For experienced mountaineers, guides are not required for the normal route, as it is a moderate hike and orientation is not a problem.\n\nThe normal route starts with an easy walk to the village of Aroumd. Past Aroumd a floodplain is crossed and the route follows the left slope of the valley southwards. The valley bends to the east to the tiny settlement of Sidi Chamharouch, which has grown around a Muslim shrine. At Sidi Chamharouch, the path leads over the stream and runs steeply uphill to the right side of the Isougouane valley, which leads to two stone-built refuges (old Neltner Refuge and new Refuge du Toubkal) that are often used as base camp at . It is possible to buy good meals in the Refuge du Toubkal. Tents can be pitched near the refuges for a small charge.\n\nFrom that point a path crosses the stream, climbs a steep scree slope to the east and enters a valley (corrie), then climbs another steep slope to reach a col (Tizi'n'Toubkal at 3,940m). At the col the route turns left (northwards) to the summit ridge of Jbel Toubkal. The 4,167m summit is crowned with a curious pyramidal metal frame and views take in most of the Atlas and Little Atlas Mountains.\n\nThe ascent during the summer (from May) is non-technical yet moderately difficult, only complicated by steep and slippery scree slopes and altitude sickness. Sturdy boots and proper (windproof) clothing are required, and trekking poles are helpful on the scree. An ice-axe may be needed on the remaining snowfields in the early summer. The ascent during the end of the winter and spring (February/March) is more difficult. Crampons are necessary to ascend through the snow and - in some cases - ice.\n\nIt is possible to climb the mountain in two days - first day up to the refuge (around seven hours), second day to the summit (around five hours) and back to Imlil (up to five hours).\n\nIn summer the mountains can be very dry, but are sometimes subject to storms. Although the temperature should remain above zero during the day, freezing conditions are possible over 3,500m. In winter the mountains are covered in snow and ice, and can be prone to avalanches. Skiing is possible as the snow can lie to considerable depth and cover many rocky slopes. Information about the state of the route can be obtained at Marrakech tourist offices or at Imlil.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27347244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27347244", "title": "Tricity, Nepal", "text": "Tricity, Nepal\n\nThe Tricity is an area of Nepal that comprises the cities of Baglung, Beni and Kushma as core market centers. The three cities are headquarters of Myagdi, Baglung and Parbat districts respectively. Baglung also happens to be the headquarters of Dhaulagiri zone. The Trinity area is a major center of population and economic activity in West-central Nepal. As three district headquarters and the zonal headquarter are located in the valley there is a large concentration of governmental and nongovernmental offices, banks, educational institutes, cottage industries and healthcare centers.\nGeographically, 50 km long, region of Kali Gandaki valley stretching from Galeshwor to the north to Phalewas to the south can be considered the Tricity region. \n"}
{"id": "42923670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42923670", "title": "UCL Centre for Advanced Spatial Analysis", "text": "UCL Centre for Advanced Spatial Analysis\n\nThe Centre for Advanced Spatial Analysis (CASA) is a research centre at University College London (UCL) which specialises in the application and visualisation of spatial analytic techniques and simulation models to cities and regions.\n\nCASA was established in 1995 by a group of UCL academics who wanted a focus for their research across different academic departments in the field of geographic information systems (GIS). Michael Batty was appointed the first director and initially held a joint appointment as Professor of Spatial Analysis and Planning in the Departments of Geography and The Bartlett School of Planning. He is now Chairman of the Centre. In 2000, Paul Longley was appointed Deputy Director and Professor of Geographic Information Science. He now directs UCL's ESRC Consumer Data Research Centre (CDRC). CASA is still largely funded through research grants but from 2010 it began to diversify, introducing Masters programmes in spatial analysis and in Smart Cities. Professor Andrew Hudson-Smith took over the directorship in 2011 and appointed a Deputy Director, Dr Adam Dennet, in 2016. The Masters courses developed since 2010 include the MSc in Smart Cities and Urban Analytics and the MRes in Data Science and Visualisation. It currently has 6 lecturers and 2 teaching fellows leading its courses. Sir Alan Wilson was appointed Professor of Urban and Regional Systems in 2008. The Centre is now an administrative unit in The Bartlett School which is the Faculty of the Built Environment.\n\nCASA researches the science of cities, working with city governments and related research groups on simulating and visualising urban problems. Their work on transport and movement has included Transport for London’s Oyster card data, public bikes schemes such as the London's cycle hire scheme, population segregation in large cities as well as climate change in the London region.\nThe centre is active in exploring how the Internet of Things can be deployed in large urban areas linking objects in the built environment through internet technologies, and was active with the Technology Strategy Board’s Future Cities Catapult in pioneering new software systems for smart cities such as dashboards and portals. Its research programme in city science concentrates on applying social physics to urban systems based on modelling the diffusion of behaviours such as the 2011 London riots and it is heavily involved in using methods of scaling and allometry to examine city performance.\n\nCASA’s research programme is primarily funded by research grants from the British research councils, mainly ESRC and EPSRC. Since 2008, the centre has been increasingly funded by EU research grants from the 7th Framework and from the European Research Council (ERC) and in 2014, it was awarded funding from the Technology Strategy Board's Future Cities Catapult to provide demonstration capabilities for urban and regional modelling.\n\nCASA has graduated some 41 PhDs since 2000. Several alumni have made important contributions to the science of cities working in geographic information systems, spatial analysis and urban modelling at UC Berkeley, Maryland, George Mason, UCL, KRISH, LSE, TU-Istanbul, KCL, \nCardiff, Tehran, Manchester, OU, ETH-Zurich, Kingston, Malta, Warwick, Birkbeck, and Liverpool. OpenStreetMap (OSM) originated in UCL CASA and The Bartlett, and the firms GeoFutures and Intelligent Space (acquired by Atkins) were associated with the centre. The company Prospective Labs spun-off from CASA in 2016 and is engaged on developing new software systems for planning and land management.\n\nMembers of CASA have pioneered the development of urban and regional modelling through a series of books that go back to the 1970s. Their work is published in a series of web sites on the CASA Blog Aggregator. Key works that reflect CASA’s research programme are \"Fractal Cities\" (1994), \"Cities and Complexity\" (2005), \"The Science of Cities and Regions\" (2012), \"Agent Based Model of Geographical Systems\" (2012), and \"The New Science of Cities\" (2013). The journals \"Environment and Planning B\", edited by Batty, and \"Future Internet\", edited by Hudson-Smith, are run from CASA. The major research focus of CASA is in blending the visualisation of complex urban systems with their simulation.\n\n"}
