{"id": "53264188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53264188", "title": "Abortion in Nauru", "text": "Abortion in Nauru\n\nAbortion in Nauru is only legal if the abortion will save the woman's life. In Nauru, if an abortion is induced for any other reason, the violator is subject to fourteen years' imprisonment. A woman who consents to her abortion or performs her own may be imprisoned for up to seven years.\n\nIn 2016, a young African refugee in Nauru, identified in the courts only as \"S99,\" was raped while semi-conscious during an epileptic seizure. S99 became pregnant from the rape and sought an abortion to terminate the pregnancy. Since the procedure is illegal in Nauru, even in cases of rape, S99 requested medical services in Australia. Instead, Australian authorities sent S99 to Papua New Guinea, even though abortion in Papua New Guinea is also illegal unless the mother's physical or mental health is determined to be at risk. S99 was concerned about the legal implications and the safety of receiving abortion care in Papua New Guinea because of her complications from epilepsy, so she asked her lawyer for a transfer to Australian soil. The court eventually found a responsibility in caring for the woman and ordered she be allowed to get an abortion.\n\nIn November 2016, Nauru's Border Protection Minister David Adeang introduced a bill to allow abortion services for refugees and asylum seekers, rather than sending them to Papua New Guinea or Australia. The bill was opposed by members of Parliament on both sides of the aisle. Critics of the bill cite the Nauruan community's staunch Christianity as one reason for opposition.\n"}
{"id": "31418952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31418952", "title": "Adult ADHD Self-Report Scale", "text": "Adult ADHD Self-Report Scale\n\nThe Adult ADHD Self-Report Scale (ASRS) Symptom Checklist is a self-reported questionnaire used to assist in the diagnosis of adult ADHD. The PhenX Toolkit uses ASRS as its adult protocol for Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Symptoms.\n\nThe ASRS was developed in conjunction with the World Health Organization (WHO), and the Workgroup on Adult ADHD which included researchers from New York University Medical School and Harvard Medical School. The ASRS has eighteen questions, which are consistent with the DSM-IV criteria and address ADHD symptoms in adults. The six question ASRS Screener was later developed as a subset of the WHO's eighteen question ASRS. At least one study has found that the six question ASRS Screener outperformed the eighteen question ASRS in diagnosing ADHD in the general population.\n\nASRS has been adapted to other languages including Spanish and Chinese. Conducted research proved that the scale is a valid and useful tool for the screening of adult ADHD. The ASRS was externally validated on approximately 60 adult patients, and showed high internal consistency and high concurrent validity with the physician-administered ADHD rating system.\n\nEach question can be answered on a five item Likert scale, based on a scale of frequency ranging from \"Never\" to \"Very Often\". Answers are scored as either positive or negative and the threshold is different for individual questions. Answers of \"Never\" and \"Rarely\" are always scored negative, answers of \"Often and Very Often\" are always scored positive, and answers of \"Sometimes\" are scored positively in only seven of the eighteen questions. Four or more positive answers in Part A is indicative of ADHD symptoms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57917562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57917562", "title": "Beronda Montgomery", "text": "Beronda Montgomery\n\nBeronda Montgomery is a Michigan State University Foundation Professor in the Departments of Biochemistry & Molecular Biology and of Microbiology & Molecular Genetics. She is also a member of the MSU-DOE Plant Research Laboratory. Her research group investigates how photosynthetic organisms adapt to changes in their environment. Her scholarship extends beyond biology and into studying mentorship and faculty development to develop evidence-based strategies to foster equity and inclusion in academia.\n\nMontgomery received her Bachelor's degree in biology from Washington University in St. Louis and her Master's degree in biology from University of Central Arkansas. She then went on to complete her PhD in Plant Biology at the University of California, Davis. She later became a postdoctoral fellow in Microbial Biology at University of Indiana with the support of a National Science Foundation (NSF) award. In 2004, she joined the research faculty at Michigan State University.\n\nMontgomery's research centers on the dynamic molecular mechanisms that allow photosynthetic organisms—from cyanobacteria to plant species—to adapt and respond to changes in their photoenvironment. These organisms must respond to changes in light sources in order to continue photosynthesis, so they've developed finely tuned growth and developmental responses. Montgomery's lab studies a number of molecules that play an important role in this process, including light-absorbing pigments and light-sensing receptors, or phytochromes. In particular, her group works to better understand how these molecules regulate cell morphology and physiology in response to different environments and stressors, focusing their attention on \"Arabadopsis\" organ systems and cyanobacteria as model organisms. \n\nHer research contributions have been recognized by the American Academy of Microbiology when she was elected as a fellow in 2018. As of 2016, Montgomery holds the title of MSU Foundation Professor in recognition of her scholarly accomplishments, disciplinary development, commitment to creativity, and teaching excellence.\n\nMontgomery also conducts scholarship and training initiatives on mentoring, particularly around issues relating to mentoring and retaining students and junior scientists from underrepresented backgrounds. She has published extensively on evidence-based strategies to nurture and retain talent in academia, developing strategies for effective mentorship that center on the individual and their specific needs and goals. Montgomery has also worked with her colleagues to create sustainable opportunities for career development and enhancement. For instance, she has worked with the American Society for Microbiology to connect research scientists with students in the classroom, with the support of the National Science Foundation. With that funding, Montgomery and her collaborators have established the ASM-NSF Leaders Inspiring Networks and Knowledge (LINK) program, to build \"links\" between research investigators, students, and educators. She also served six years as Chair of the ASM Watkins Graduate Research Fellowship, which is aimed at increasing the number of underrepresented groups completing their doctoral degrees in microbiology. Montgomery's efforts have also focused on faculty development to ensure that mentees grow into effective mentors for the next generation and continue attracting and promoting underrepresented students through STEM careers. \n\nAs an expert in effective and evidence-based mentorship, Montgomery serves on a number of leadership boards and as a consultant to universities working towards greater diversity, equity, and inclusion within their research and education programs. She is currently an advisory board member of 500 Women Scientists, lending her expertise in mentorship and faculty development to support their mission of making science open, inclusive, and accessible.\n\n"}
{"id": "39714111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39714111", "title": "Bocasan", "text": "Bocasan\n\nBocasan was an oral wound cleanser manufactured in the United Kingdom by Knox Laboratories Ltd of London from 1960–1975, before being rebranded as an Oral-B product\n\nProduction of Bocasan appears to have ceased by 2003. A similar product, Amosan was available for a period before also ceasing production in 2010. As of 2013, a Dutch pharmacy offers the same formulation under the name Bikosan\n\nIt was used to aid treatment, in adults or children over 5 years old, of periodontal conditions such as canker sores, denture irritation, orthodontic irritation, or after dental procedures.\n\nBocasan was packaged in a 1.7 gram envelope, and contained 69.72% sodium perborate monohydrate and 29.68% sodium hydrogen tartrate anhydrous. To use, the contents were dissolved in 30 cubic centimetres of warm water. Half the amount was swilled around the mouth for two minutes and discarded, and the procedure repeated with the remainder. Treatment was recommended three times a day after meals.\n\nA 1979 double-blind crossover study suggests that hydrogen peroxide, which is released during the use of this product, may prevent or retard colonization and multiplication of anaerobic bacteria, such as those that inhabit oral wounds.\n\n"}
{"id": "2282309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2282309", "title": "C. C. Little", "text": "C. C. Little\n\nClarence Cook \"C.C.\" Little (October 6, 1888 – December 22, 1971) was an American genetics, cancer, and tobacco researcher and academic administrator.\n\nC. C. Little was born in Brookline, Massachusetts and attended Harvard University after his secondary education at the Noble and Greenough School. While studying under W. E. Castle, Little began his work with mice, focusing on inheritance, transplants, and grafts. He also was an assistant dean and secretary to the president. His most important research occurred at Harvard, including what some call his most brilliant work, \"A Mendelian explanation for the inheritance of a trait that has apparently non-Mendelian characteristics\". His observations on transplant rejection became codified into the \"five laws of transplant immunology\" by George Snell. Little developed the \"DBA (Dilute, Brown and non-Agouti)\" strain of mice while at Harvard. For his research, he received posthumously the 1978 Cancer Research Institute William B. Coley Award.\n\nLittle received an A.B. from Harvard University in 1910, an M.S. in 1912, and D.Sc. in 1914 in zoology, with special focus in the new science of genetics.\n\nDuring World War I Little served in the U.S. Army Signal Corps, attaining the rank of Major. Following the war he spent three years at the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory. In 1921 he helped found the American Birth Control League with Margaret Sanger and Lothrop Stoddard.\n\nLittle accepted the post of President of the University of Maine in 1922, becoming at age 33 the youngest university president in the country. While there he started a summer laboratory in Bar Harbor. In 1925 he left to become the President of the University of Michigan. His tenure at the university was controversial due to his outspokenness in favor of eugenics, birth control, and euthanasia. He left Michigan in 1929 in order to devote himself to his research at Bar Harbor. With funding from Detroit car manufacturers he was able to improve the facility for year-round use. He renamed it the \"Jackson Laboratory\" in honor of one donor, Roscoe B. Jackson of the Hudson Motor Car Corporation. Also in 1929 he took on a part-time job as managing director of the American Society for the Control of Cancer (later became the American Cancer Society (ACS)) and served as President to the American Eugenics Society.\n\nFunding for the Jackson Laboratory was extremely limited during the Great Depression, but it received one of the first grants from the newly formed National Cancer Institute in 1938. Little energetically developed both the lab and the ACS, and by 1944 they were shipping 9000 mice a week to other laboratories. The laboratory and all of the livestock were destroyed in the Great Bar Harbor Fire in the Fall of 1947. The lab was quickly rebuilt and most mouse strains were recovered from other labs around the world. By 1950 the lab was maintaining 60 inbred strains, and had developed the F hybrid that became widely used for chemical testing. Little resigned in 1954.\n\nHis last major post, from 1954 to 1969, was as the Scientific Director of the Scientific Advisory Board of the Tobacco Industry Research Committee (renamed Council for Tobacco Research in 1964). In that role he was a leading scientific voice of the tobacco industry and oversaw a USD 1 million research budget that gave grants to hundreds of scientists. In 1959 he refuted his earlier assertion, made as Director of the ACS, that inhaling fine particles is unhealthy, and stated that smoking does not cause lung cancer and is at most a minor contributing factor. . A decade later he said, \"there is no demonstrated causal relationship between smoking or any disease.\" In keeping with his earlier research he believed that the main cause of cancer was genetic, not environmental.\n\nLittle died of a heart attack in 1971 in Ellsworth, Maine at the age of 83.\n\nThe C. C. Little Science Building at the University of Michigan was named in his honor. In 2017, five faculty members and an undergraduate student submitted a formal request to University of Michigan President Mark Schlissel to change the building's name because of Little's previous support of eugenics. The building’s sign without Little’s name was replaced on March 29, 2018.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2198499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2198499", "title": "Chipper (drugs)", "text": "Chipper (drugs)\n\nA chipper is an occasional drug user who does not use drugs with the regularity or frequency that is typical of addicts. It is used particularly to refer to opiate users and tobacco smokers.\n\nIt can also refer to people who use various recreational drugs, but none particularly habitually.\n\nSuch occasional users of tobacco are sometimes thought of as \"social smokers\" which is similar in meaning to \"social drinkers\". However, evidence indicates that this only characterizes a minority of chippers. The prevalence of non-daily smoking in the U.S. has increased by 40% between 1996 and 2001.\n\nChippers are given as an example in \"The Tipping Point\"; if chippers begin smoking above a certain threshold (or tipping point), then they will develop regular cravings and become addicted.\n\nThe term dates at least to the 1970s, where it is used in reference to opiate use.\n\nThe term was notably used in reference to tobacco by psychologist Dr. Saul Shiffman, a professor at the University of Pittsburgh.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36112857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36112857", "title": "Consejo de Salud Rural Andino", "text": "Consejo de Salud Rural Andino\n\nConsejo de Salud Rural Andino (CSRA) is a non profit, non-governmental organization that specializes in administering health networks and it offers services in designing, implementing, monitoring and evaluating health projects with a community-based model. CSRA was established in 1983 by its parent organization, then known as Andean Rural Health Care in the United States and now known as Curamericas Global, Inc. Curamericas Global was founded in 1983 by Duke University and Johns Hopkins University graduate Henry Perry III, M.D., Ph.D., M.P.H. and Alice Weldon, Ph.D. The organization’s work was initially based in Bolivia and has since expanded its services to Haiti, Liberia and Guatemala. Currently, Consejo de Salud Rural Andino in Bolivia has its headquarters in the city of La Paz, a regional office in El Alto, and a regional office in the city of Montero.\n\nCuramericas Global and CSRA are known for their development of the Census-Based, Impact-Oriented Methodology. The CBIO is a community-based primary health care model that allows to better understand, effectively treat and accurately measure outcomes and impacts for the most common found causes of unnecessary suffering, sickness, including mortality reduction using census information and having collaboration from the community. CBIO implementation will first identify the entire programm population through visits at least biannually to all homes and then target selected high-impact services to those at highest risk of death. The CBIO approach incorporates:\n\nA community census of households and a health assessment of the project area, a drawing of maps and numbering of households, and the development of a program plan with community members that includes both epidemiologically driven health objectives as well as community perceived health priorities.\n\nNative doctors, nurses, community health workers, and volunteers then conduct regularly scheduled home visits to targeted households whose census information reveals a high risk of illness or death. During these home visits, health knowledge and practices are measured and vital events are recorded so that families’ illnesses, health experiences, deaths, births, and migrations are tracked. This information is entered into a health information system so; program interventions can be measured and then analyzed with the participation of local people and leaders of the community.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15197879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15197879", "title": "Curiosity quotient", "text": "Curiosity quotient\n\nCuriosity quotient is a term put forth by author and journalist Thomas L. Friedman as part of an illustrative formula to explain how individuals can be powerfully motivated to learn about a personally interesting subject, whether or not they possess a particularly high intelligence quotient (IQ). The non-mathematical and fictitious formula is CQ + PQ > IQ; where CQ is \"curiosity quotient\" and PQ is \"passion quotient.\" Thomas Friedman states that when curiosity is paired with passion in the exploration of a subject of interest, an individual may be able to acquire an amount of knowledge comparable that of a person who is exceptionally intelligent, because of the vast amount of information resources available through the Internet. \nThis formula is not meant to be taken in a literal sense, nor is it a measurement tool for assessing or predicting the intelligence, productivity or success of a student, employee or individual.\n\nFriedman's claim is that Curiosity quotient plus Passion quotient is greater than Intelligence Quotient. \n\nThere is no evidence that this inequality is true. Friedman may believe that curiosity and passion are 'greater' than intelligence, but there is no evidence to suggest that the sum of a person's curiosity and passion quotients will always exceed their IQ. Indeed, given the ordinal nature of psychometric quotients, it is not clear whether it makes sense to add the curiosity and passion quotients or even if they can have numerical values attributed to them.\n\nAccording to Friedman, curiosity and passion are key components for education in a world where information is readily available to everyone and where global markets reward those who have learned how to learn and are self-motivated to learn.\n\nFriedman states, \"Give me the kid with a passion to learn and a curiosity to discover and I will take him or her over the less passionate kid with a huge IQ every day of the week.\" IQ \"still matters, but CQ and PQ ... matter even more.\" Friedman further states that \"it is more important to be passionate and curious than to be merely smart.\"\n\nTo date, there are no existing university tests or accredited testing evaluations which will produce a quantitative CQ or PQ.\n"}
{"id": "4063979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4063979", "title": "Dental emergency", "text": "Dental emergency\n\nDental emergency is a broad, umbrella term used to describe an issue involving the teeth and supporting tissues that is of high importance to be fixed/treated by the relevant professional. Dental emergencies do not always involve pain, although this is a common signal that something needs to be looked at. Pain can originate from the tooth, surrounding tissues or can have the sensation of originating in the teeth but be caused by an independent source (orofacial pain and toothache). Depending on the type of pain experienced an experienced clinician can determine the likely cause and can treat the issue as each tissue type gives different messages in a dental emergency. Many emergencies exist and can range from bacterial/fungal/viral infections to a fractured tooth or dental restoration, each requiring an individual response and treatment that is unique to the situation. Fractures (dental trauma) can occur anywhere on the tooth or to the surrounding bone, depending on the site and extent of fracture the treatment options will vary. Dental restoration falling out or fracturing can also be considered a dental emergency as these can impact on function in regards to aesthetics, eating and pronunciation and as such should be tended to with the same haste as loss of tooth tissue. All dental emergencies should be treated under the supervision or guidance of a dental health professional in order to preserve the teeth for as long as possible. \n\nThere is no widely accepted definition of what constitutes a dental emergency. By contrast, a medical emergency is often more precisely defined as an acute condition which presents an immediate threat to life, limb, vision or long term health. Consequently, dental emergencies can rarely be described as medical emergencies in these terms.\n\nSome define a dental emergency in terms of the individual's willingness to attend for emergency dental treatment at any time at short notice, stating that persons who are fussy about when they are available for treatment are not true emergency cases.\n\nThere are often divergent opinions between clinicians and patients as to what constitutes a dental emergency. E.g. a person may suddenly lose a filling, crown, bridge, etc. and although they are completely pain-free, still have great cosmetic concerns about the appearance of their teeth and demand an emergency treatment on the basis of perceived social disability.\n\nPain is described as 'an unpleasant sensory and emotional experience associated with actual or potential tissue damage, or described in terms of such damage. It is one of the most common reasons patients seek dental treatment and many diseases or conditions may be responsible for the cause.\n\nOdontogenic pain is pain associated with the teeth, originating in the dental pulp and/or the peri-radicular tissues. The following table shows the different classifications of pulp status.\n\nPeri- radicular pain can be of pulpal origin, most commonly due to disease in the pulp extending into the peri-radicular tissues but can also be of periodontal origin due to periodontal disease. Apical periodontitis is a term used to describe acute inflammation of the periodontal ligament surrounding the tooth. This can be caused by inflammatory mediators from irreversibly inflamed pulp, bacterial toxins from necrotic pulp, restorations that have not been property contoured and in some cases, from treatments such as endodontic treatment. There is both an acute and chronic form of this condition. Acute apical periodontitis features include moderate to severe pain, usually stimulated by touch and pressure and may also include spontaneous pain. The chronic form of the condition can be asymptomatic but may also include pain from surrounding tissues when stimulated. Apical abscess is a term used to describe an extension of apical periodontitis where the bacteria have infiltrated the peri radicular tissues and are causing a severe inflammatory response; there is also an acute and chronic form of this condition. An acute apical abscess can cause facial swelling and can cause other systemic consequences such as a high temperature and feelings of malaise. In some cases this condition can be life-threatening when the inflammation compromises the airway; this is termed Ludwig’s Angina. A chronic apical abscess can be asymptomatic as the pressure from the inflammation is being drained through a sinus tract; a draining sinus can usually be seen clinically. A periodontal abscess is a localised inflammation affecting the periodontal tissues. It is caused by bacteria pre-existing in a periodontal pockets, traumatic insertion of bacteria or foreign body or can occur after periodontal treatment. This condition has a rapid onset, is stimulated by touch and involves spontaneous pain. It is important to note that an apical abscess may drain through the periodontal pocket giving a false interpretation of periodontal abscess or a periodontal abscess may appear at the apex of the tooth giving a false interpretation of apical abscess; a tooth may also have both lesions at one point in time.\n\nDental trauma refers to an injury on hard and soft tissues of the oral cavity and face. This includes the teeth and surrounding tissues, the periodontium, tongue, lips and cheeks. It is more prevalent with children between 8– 12 years of age but can still happen to anyone. The prognosis of the tooth is worse the longer it is out of the mouth.\n\nThe following is a list of dental trauma affecting different surfaces of the teeth and periodontium.\n\nDental barotrauma and barodontalgia. A sudden incapacitation of diver or aviator due to barometric-induced tooth fracture or toothache, respectively, may be life-threatening to the individual and the airplane passengers.\n\nA fractured, ditched or dislodged filling that is broken or lost may cause discomfort or sharp pain due to jagged edges. There can be aesthetical concerns if the filling is in a visible area. Patients need to be aware of the sharp edges and ensure their tongue does not constantly apply pressure around that area, as it can cause cuts to the tongue. However, in some cases the result of the loss of a filling can cause irritation to the side of the cheek and potentially lead to an ulcer. Sharp edges can easily be dealt with by levelling the filling or tooth edges from your local dentist during the emergency appointment. Hypersensitivity issues may also arise, short sharp pain caused by exposed underlying dentine, after the deterioration of the filling material.\n\nReasons for the deterioration of a restoration vary in different cases, the cause may be underlying caries or it could be occlusal trauma, caused from natural dentition during mastication. The longevity of restorative materials could also be a factor; the survival rates of amalgam are usually 10–15 years, composite 7 years, while gold and ceramic fillings have over a 20-year longevity.\n\nDuring the emergency appointment the dentist will need to take a set of radiographs to assess for any underlying caries, bone loss or possible abscess. The clinical examination will detect the reasons behind the failure of the restoration. Upon treatment the dentist will provide options on the tooth’s prognosis, these may include a new restoration, extraction, root canal or placement of a crown. The tooth prognosis includes the tooth’s vitality and restorability.\n\nA crack, fracture and the mobility of a tooth are all interrelated as the pain and symptoms experienced from a tooth that has been cracked are very similar to that of a tooth that has been fractured.\nA tooth crack is defined as an incomplete fracture of enamel or dentine and therefore is not usually associated with noticeable mobility.\nThe cause of a tooth crack can be by excessive force applied to a healthy tooth or physiologic forces applied to a weakened tooth. The teeth most commonly involved are usually the lower molars, followed by the upper premolars and molars. The condition is extremely common in the age range of 30–60 years.\n\nA diagnosis of a cracked tooth is extremely difficult. Careful history and assessment of the symptoms presented needs to be taken into account; radiographs and certain tests will be conducted in the dental office. Most common symptoms are cold sensitivity, sharp pain when using force to chew, these pain results from the release of pressure and are very important indicators of a cracked tooth. However, the symptoms may differ from various patients, subject to the depth and orientation of the crack.\n\nCrowns can become broken by a fracture, non-retentive preparation, secondary caries, weak cement, excessive occlusal forces, decementation or loosening of the crown. The consequences of a crown becoming loose include the risk of ingestion and less likely, inhalation. The management of the loose crown includes immediate recementation or a replacement crown, depending on the assessment conducted by the dentist.\n\nThe factors that are taken into consideration in making this decision include the strength of the temporary crown to be placed and occlusal forces. Thus, a thorough occlusal examination is of paramount importance, strength of the cement, a strong alternative of cement should be considered. The occlusion assessment should also include the static and functional occlusion as well as the possible presence of Para functional habits, such as clenching or bruxism.\n\nManagement includes cleaning all the cement and residues, to carefully inspect for any underlying caries or fractures. Details that need to be assessed include margins, gingivae and contact points; occlusion needs to be checked in both ICP and in lateral and protrusive excursions, before the crown can be re-cemented. Stronger cement should be used than the original such as resin cements, especially in cases of heavy occlusal forces.\n\nIn some cases, immediate reconstruction of the abutment may be deemed inappropriate, if the underlying structure is deemed deficient due to caries or a fracture then this issue needs to be addressed. The treatment plan may vary with the addition of a root canal treatment or a temporary crown for the reconstruction of a new crown.\n\nImmediate management includes a chair side repair of the fractured veneer with composite material. Bonding composite to the exposed metal will involve achieving macro mechanical retention by making grooves and notches or abrading the surface. \nBonding material back onto exposed porcelain involves abrading, hydrofluoric acid etching and silanating then followed by a conventional bonding procedure. Composite patch will remain a temporary solution as the longevity of composite restorations is not predictable as well as the colour of composite is not as stable as porcelain for aesthetical reasons.\n\nA fracture can involve any damage to the denture. Any type of repair to the denture is much less ideal then making a new one. The ratio of fracture to a denture is a 1:3 ratio of the upper to lower.\n\nThe most common reason for fracture in a denture; is accidental dropping of the denture in the case of the lower denture, and improper fitting and stability of the denture in the upper denture.\n\n\n\nImplant success is relatively high, the rate of implant survival is between 85-95%, although it is not uncommon for emergency management of a failing implant or one of its components. The failure is most likely due to infection of the implant. It is highly recommended to visit or refer patient to the specialist who provided the implant. \nLate failures that occur with implants are usually due to moderate to severe bone loss, mostly located in the posterior areas of teeth and involve a multi-unit prosthesis. A fracture or decementation of a post or loosening of the abutment screw of an implant could be the result of dissolved cement, secondary caries, use of a weak post, or excessive occlusal forces.\nOral home care needs to remain at a high standard, brushing twice a day for the duration of two minutes with the use of fluoridated tooth paste. Interdental cleaning once a day using either floss, interdental brushes, wood sticks. Regular dental appointments every 6 months to maintain gingival health, professional cleans, radiographs to examine the bone loss and the implant status. All the following is needed to prolong the longevity of the implant and reduce the risk of peri-implantitis.\n\nAn acute condition may be defined as a suddenly presenting disorder, usually with only a short history of symptoms, but with a degree of severity that causes significant disruption to the patient.\n\nTypes of acute conditions\n\nA swelling is a transient abnormal enlargement of a body part or area not caused by proliferation of cells but by accumulation of fluid in tissues. It can occur throughout the body (generalized), or a specific part or organ can be affected (localized). A swelling may arise intra-orally or externally around the face, jaws and neck and can be caused by trauma (hematoma, swelling due to fracture, TMJ dislocation), infection or inflammation. Swelling can occur in the gums, palate, lips, buccal space, etc. It can happen due to periodontal problems, infection, abscess, cysts, allergic reaction (anaphylactic shock), salivary gland tumour, inflammation or obstruction of salivary gland.\n\nBacterial infection in the oro-facial region can lead to abscess and swelling. The rapid spread of this infection through connective tissue spaces, is often referred to as cellulitis. The clinical features of cellulitis are a painful, diffuse, brawny swelling. The overlying skin is red, tense and shiny. There is usually an associated trismus, cervical lymphadenopathy, malaise and pyrexia. Cellulitis usually develops\nquickly, over the course of hours, and may follow an inadequately managed or ignored local dental infection. If the infection spreads to involve the floor of mouth and pharyngeal spaces, then the airway can be compromised. Initially, the floor of the mouth will be raised and the patient will have difficulty in swallowing saliva; this\npools and may be observed running from the patient’s mouth. This sign indicates the need for urgent management. Cellulitis involving the tissue spaces on both sides of the floor of mouth is described as Ludwig’s angina Such presentations require immediate attention.\n\nLocalised dental abscesses may be appropriately treated by intra-oral drainage via tooth extraction, opening of root canals and/or intra-oral incision and drainage. Wherever there are signs of spreading cervico-facial infection or significant systemic disturbance, however, patients should be referred urgently further management.\n\nPericoronitis is defined as inflammation in the soft tissues surrounding the crown of a partially erupted tooth. The acute form is characterised by severe pain, often referred to adjacent areas, causing loss of sleep, swelling of the pericoronal tissues, discharge of pus, trismus, regional lymphadenopathy, pain on swallowing, pyrexia, and in some cases spread of the infection to adjacent tissue\nspaces.\n\n\nTrismus may be defined as inability to open the mouth due to muscle spasm, but the term is frequently used for limited movement of the jaw from any cause and usually refers to temporary limitation of movement. Trismus can occur as a result of temporomandibular joint disorder, infection, cancer therapy, complicated extraction, arthritis, complication from a mandibular block and fractures.\n\nWhilst haemorrhage from the oro-facial region may present spontaneously, particularly from gingival tissue as a result of a bleeding diathesis or a haematological abnormality such as leukaemia, the most common cause is in response to trauma or a post-operative haemorrhage following dental extraction.\n\nCysts can be common lesions found in the jaw. They are defined as cavities filled with fluid or semi-fluid content, created from the resorption of bone. They can wholly or partly be lined by epithelium and connective tissue. They are not to be confused with abscesses, which are cavities filled with pus. Cysts can cause root resorption of adjacent teeth, tooth mobility and can be associated with mandibular fracture. Cyst would usually require surgical management if indicated.\n\nFollowing a tooth extraction, if a blood clot forms inadequately in the socket or it is broken down, a painful infection may develop which is often referred to as a ‘dry socket’. It is clinically characterized by a putrid odor and intense pain that radiates to the ear and neck. Pain is considered the most important symptom of dry socket. It can vary in frequency and intensity, and other symptoms, such as headache, insomnia, and dizziness, can be present.\nPre-disposing factors to dry socket include smoking, traumatic extraction, history of radiotherapy and bisphosphonate medication.\nA dry socket can be managed by irrigating the socket with chlorhexidine or warmed saline to remove debris followed by dressing of the socket with bismuth iodoform paraffin paste and lidocaine gel on ribbon gauze to protect the socket from painful stimuli.\nIf pus is seen in the socket and there is localised swelling and possibly lymphadenopathy, it has become infected and can often be managed as in dry\nsocket, but usually antibiotics should be prescribed. A radiograph is useful to see if there is a retained root or bony sequestrum, which could be the cause of the infection. Clearly, if one or both is present, further treatment is indicated.\n\nMild inflammatory swelling may follow dental extractions but is unusual unless the procedure was difficult and significant surgical trauma occurred. More significant swelling usually indicates postoperative infection or presence of a haematoma. Management of infection may require systemic antibiotics or drainage. A large haematoma may need to be drained.\n\nOrthodontic emergencies can be classified as urgent problems relating to the maintenance of orthodontic appliances, or excessive pain caused by orthodontic appliances. General dental practitioners should be able to manage orthodontic emergencies, including referral to an orthodontist when necessary.\n\nRemovable active appliance are used by dentist to tip teeth using screws, springs and bows of various types to correct malocclusion. The appliance can be taken out for cleaning and for adjustments made by orthodontists. If the appliance is loose in an emergency situation, the dentist can adjust the retentive component of the appliance to increase the retention of the appliance by using Adams pliers.\n\nSuppose the appliance breaks, the orthodontist should be alerted as soon as possible. The wearer should not use the appliance as it could cause trauma and could pose a significant risk of airway obstruction if the wearer accidentally inhales.\n\nThere are many components to the fixed appliance which have a potential to break off if the patient chews on hard or crunchy food. Wearers should wear a mouth guard over the appliance if when playing contact sports. If one of the components is loose or comes off, the user must call the orthodontist right away. If the component is loose the dentist as an emergency treatment can cover the component with orthodontic relief wax. If the component breaks off,then the dentist can use a pair of tweezers to remove it making sure to protect the airway at all times.\n\nLigatures are small elastics or wires which aim to secure the archwire firmly within the brackets on the teeth. If a ligature becomes loose or lost, this can render the appliance less effective as the forces on that particular tooth are reduced. In this case, a loose elastic can be re-positioned with tweezers, ideally by an orthodontist however general dental practitioners are also able to do so. If a wire ligature becomes loose, it should be secured or replaced only by a trained orthodontist and in the meantime, if causing irritation, orthodontic relief wax should be used over any sharp ends. The patient should avoid replacing the wire ligature themselves if it is lost and should seek an appointment with their orthodontist.\n\nSeparators, also known as orthodontic spacers, are usually placed between posterior teeth to open up contact point prior to placing metal orthodontic bands. The separators should ideally be kept in place until the patient's next appointment in order for the orthodontic band to fit. If the separator is lost, the orthodontist should be informed and he/she can advise for a next appointment for the patient.\n\nThe archwire in fixed orthodontic appliances should be flat against the tooth, however if the wire is protruding it can cause irritation to the surrounding soft tissues. Wire benders or a dental flat plastic can be used to bend the wire into place, or if this is not possible, the protruding wire can be covered with wax. If there are significant problems, the wire can be clipped using distal end cutters, being careful to avoid inhaling or ingesting wire fragments. As a last resort measure, the whole wire and ligatures can be removed.\n\nDe-bonded brackets, if left untreated, can result in irritation of lip and cheek in short term. If a bracket de-bonds from the tooth, the de-bonded bracket can be removed from the archwire by initially removing the ligature holding it in place. Alternatively, orthodontic wax relief can be used to secure the de-bonded bracket to the adjacent bracket as a temporary measure to prevent irritation of lip and cheek. However, it is essential to inform the orthodontist as soon as possible so that appropriate actions are taken to address the de-bonded brackets immediately.\n\nThe most common allergy in orthodontics is to nickel. Nickel is found in multiple orthodontic components, such as nickel-titanium (NiTi) archwires and stainless steel brackets. If patients are previously exposed to nickel, for example with nickel-containing jewellery, the re-exposure with orthodontic components are more likely to lead to a Type IV delayed hypersensitivity immune response. This response is usually delayed for a few days or weeks. In this case, the orthodontist must be informed immediately to make arrangements for patient to receive nickel-free components. However, such immune response to nickel is rare, as it is believed that the oral mucosa requires a much higher concentration to illicit a response compared to the skin.\n\nWhen a small removable appliance or a loose component obstructs a patients airway a true medical emergency arises. If the object is visible, recline the patient and attempt to remove it while otherwise encouraging the patient to cough the object out. If this is not immediately successful call for help and an ambulance. Follow the guidelines for 'choking/aspiration' in the 'Medical Emergencies and Resuscitation' document provided by the Resuscitation Council UK.\n\nIt is not unheard of to ingest an orthodontic component or appliance, usually being asymptomatic causing no harm to the patient. No treatment is required except for monitoring stools to ensure the component has passed safely. If however the patient is having symptoms of pain or vomiting, the component may be lodged in the oesophagus or oropharynx. In such situations the patient must be sent to hospital.\n\nIf the component is more than 5 cm long the patient should always be sent to A&E as there is a higher risk of obstruction or perforation of the gastrointestinal tract so removal may be advised instead of allowing the component to pass naturally. When sending a patient to hospital the referral letter must contain details regarding the components size, shape, flexibility, radio-opacity as well as information about the incident for example when it was swallowed.\n\nAspiration of an orthodontic component which was unable to be removed must be referred to A&E for chest radiographs and subsequent removal of the component. The referral letter again must include details as described above.\n\nThe treatment is cause-related. For example, oil of cloves, which contains eugenol, can be used to treat dental pain; a drop can be applied with a cotton swab as a palliative . After wisdom tooth extraction, for example, a condition known as dry socket can develop where nerve endings are exposed to air. A piece of sterile gauze or cotton soaked in oil of cloves may be placed in the socket after careful cleaning with saline to relieve this form of pain .\n\nOver-the-counter topical anesthetics containing active ingredients such as benzocaine or choline salicylate may be applied directly to the gum in order to deaden sensation.\n\nAnalgesics such as aspirin, paracetamol (acetaminophen) and ibuprofen are also commonly used; aspirin and ibuprofen have the additional benefits of being anti-inflammatories. Ice and/or heat are also frequently applied . A dentist may prescribe an anti-inflammatory corticosteroid such as Dexameth for pain relief prior to treatment. \n"}
{"id": "20058790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20058790", "title": "Eforia Spitalelor Civile", "text": "Eforia Spitalelor Civile\n\nEforia Spitalelor Civile () was a non-profit organization which managed hospitals in Wallachia and Moldavia. Created by general Pavel Kiselyov in 1832, the organization survived until 1948, when it was abolished by the communist authorities. Initially, by General Kiselyov's decree of April 2, 1832, the board had the authority of managing the Colţea, Pantelimon and Filantropia hospitals in Bucharest. In the course of time, it created and managed other hospitals, mainly in Walachia, but also in Moldova.\n\nThe Board was reorganized on October 2, 1864, when new legislation required the board's budget to be submitted to parliament's approval and that the accounting be done according to government regulations and subject of the control of the Court of Accounts (\"Curtea de conturi\").\n\nTo finance the hospitals, the board had been endowed with land property, a significant part located in the territories of the former Turkish rayas. By 1921 it had a property of tens of thousands hectares of farm land and over 50,000 hectares of forests. After the agrarian reform of the 1920s, the Board retained its right on the payments for oil extraction from its former properties. The board also owned several important buildings in Bucharest and several hotels in Sinaia.\n"}
{"id": "1638491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1638491", "title": "Ferber method", "text": "Ferber method\n\nThe Ferber method, or Ferberization, is a technique invented by Dr. Richard Ferber to solve infant sleep problems. It involves \"baby-training\" children to self-soothe by allowing the child to cry for a predetermined amount of time before receiving external comfort.\n\nThe \"Cry It Out\" (CIO) approach can be traced back to the book \"The Care and Feeding of Children\" written by Dr. Emmett Holt in 1895. CIO is any sleep-training method which allows a baby to cry for a specified period before the parent will offer comfort. \"Ferberization\" is one such approach. Ferber does not advocate simply leaving a baby to cry. More extreme methods, such as Dr. Marc Weissbluth's extinction method, are often mistakenly referred to as \"Ferberization\", though they fall outside of the guidelines Ferber recommended. Some pediatricians, however, feel that any form of CIO is unnecessary and damaging to a baby.\n\nDr. Richard Ferber discusses and outlines a wide range of practices to teach an infant to sleep. The term \"ferberization\" is now popularly used to refer to the following techniques:\n\n\nThe technique is targeted at infants as young as four months of age. A few babies are capable of sleeping through the night at three months, and most are capable of sleeping through the night at six months. Before six months of age, the baby may still need to feed during the night and it is probable that the baby will require a night feeding before three months.\n\nFerber made some modifications in the 2006 edition of his book \"Solve Your Child's Sleep Problems\". He is now more open to co-sleeping and feels different approaches work for different families, children & situations.\n\nCrying is associated with physiological stress in the baby in the short term, and some pediatricians do not recommend techniques like \"controlled crying\" and \"camping out\" as a result, based on possible long-term psychological and physical problems. A study that looked at long-term consequences in children older than seven months concluded that there were no beneficial nor negative effects. However, there are no data on children younger than seven months. Co-sleeping, a common alternative, has its own benefits but also risks if not breastfeeding.\n\nLeaving babies to cry without comfort causes a rise in a hormone called cortisol, a stress hormone. Prolonged increases in this hormone inhibit brain and emotional development.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1023575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1023575", "title": "Glioblastoma", "text": "Glioblastoma\n\nGlioblastoma, also known as glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), is the most aggressive cancer that begins within the brain. Initially, signs and symptoms of glioblastoma are non-specific. They may include headaches, personality changes, nausea, and symptoms similar to those of a stroke. Worsening of symptoms often is rapid. This may progress to unconsciousness.\nThe cause of most cases is unclear. Uncommon risk factors include genetic disorders such as neurofibromatosis and Li–Fraumeni syndrome, and previous radiation therapy. Glioblastomas represent 15% of brain tumors. They can either start from normal brain cells or develop from an existing low-grade astrocytoma. The diagnosis typically is made by a combination of CT scan, MRI scan, and tissue biopsy.\nThere is no clear way to prevent the disease. Typically, treatment involves surgery, after which chemotherapy and radiation therapy are used. The medication temozolomide is used frequently as part of chemotherapy. High dose steroids may be used to help reduce swelling and decrease symptoms. It is unclear whether trying to remove all or simply most of the cancer is better.\nDespite maximum treatment, the cancer usually recurs. The most common length of survival following diagnosis is 12 to 15 months, with fewer than 3% to 5% of people surviving longer than five years. Without treatment, survival is typically three months. It is the most common cancer that begins within the brain and the second most common brain tumor, after meningioma. About 3 per 100,000 people develop the disease a year. It most often begins around 64 years of age and occurs more commonly in males than females. Immunotherapy is being studied.\nCommon symptoms include seizure, headaches, nausea and vomiting, memory loss, changes to personality, mood or concentration; and localized neurological problems.\n\nThe kind of symptoms produced depends more on the location of the tumor than on its pathological properties. The tumor can start producing symptoms quickly, but occasionally is an asymptomatic condition until it reaches an enormous size.\n\nThe cause of most cases is unclear. About 5% develop from another type brain tumor known as a low-grade astrocytoma.\n\nUncommon risk factors include genetic disorders such as neurofibromatosis, Li–Fraumeni syndrome, tuberous sclerosis, or Turcot syndrome. Previous radiation therapy is also a risk. For unknown reasons, GBM occurs more commonly in males.\n\nOther associations include exposure to smoking, pesticides, and working in petroleum refining or rubber manufacturing.\n\nGlioblastoma has been associated with the viruses SV40, HHV-6, and cytomegalovirus.\n\nThe cellular origin of glioblastoma is unknown. Because of the similarities in immunostaining of glial cells and glioblastoma, it has long been assumed that gliomas such as glioblastoma originate from glial type cells. However more recent studies suggest that astrocytes, oligodendrocyte progenitor cells and neural stem cells could also serve as the cell of origin.\n\nGlioblastoma multiforme tumors are characterized by the presence of small areas of necrotizing tissue that are surrounded by anaplastic cells. This characteristic, as well as the presence of hyperplastic blood vessels, differentiates the tumor from Grade 3 astrocytomas, which do not have these features.\n\nGBMs usually form in the cerebral white matter, grow quickly, and can become very large before producing symptoms. Fewer than 10% form more slowly following degeneration of low-grade astrocytoma or anaplastic astrocytoma. These are called secondary GBMs and are more common in younger patients (mean age 45 versus 62 years). The tumor may extend into the meninges or ventricular wall, leading to high protein content in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) (> 100 mg/dL), as well as an occasional pleocytosis of 10 to 100 cells, mostly lymphocytes. Malignant cells carried in the CSF may spread (rarely) to the spinal cord or cause meningeal gliomatosis. However, metastasis of GBM beyond the central nervous system is extremely unusual. About 50% of GBMs occupy more than one lobe of a hemisphere or are bilateral. Tumors of this type usually arise from the cerebrum and may exhibit the classic infiltration across the corpus callosum, producing a butterfly (bilateral) glioma.\n\nThe tumor may take on a variety of appearances, depending on the amount of hemorrhage, necrosis, or its age. A CT scan will usually show an inhomogeneous mass with a hypodense center and a variable ring of enhancement surrounded by edema. Mass effect from the tumor and edema may compress the ventricles and cause hydrocephalus.\n\nFour subtypes of glioblastoma have been identified:\n\nMany other genetic alterations have been described in glioblastoma, and the majority of them are clustered in two pathways, the RB and the PI3K/AKT. Glioblastomas have alterations in 68–78% and 88% of these pathways, respectively.\n\nAnother important alteration is methylation of MGMT, a \"suicide\" DNA repair enzyme. Methylation is described to impair DNA transcription and therefore, expression of the MGMT enzyme. Since an MGMT enzyme can repair only one DNA alkylation due to its suicide repair mechanism, reverse capacity is low and methylation of the MGMT gene promoter greatly affects DNA-repair capacity. Indeed, MGMT methylation is associated with an improved response to treatment with DNA-damaging chemotherapeutics, such as temozolomide.\n\nCancer cells with properties similar to stem cells have been found in glioblastomas (this may be a cause of their resistance to conventional treatments, and high recurrence rate). These so-called glioblastoma stem-like cells reside in a niche around arterioles, protecting these cells against therapy by maintaining a relatively hypoxic environment. A biomarker for cells in glioblastomas that exhibit cancer stem cell properties, the transcription factor Hes3, has been shown to regulate their number when placed in culture.\n\nThe \"IDH1\" gene encodes for the enzyme isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 and is frequently mutated in glioblastoma (primary GBM: 5%, secondary GBM >80%). By producing very high concentrations of the \"oncometabolite\" D-2-hydroxyglutarate and dysregulating the function of the wild-type IDH1-enzyme it induces profound changes to the metabolism of \"IDH1\"-mutated glioblastoma, compared with \"IDH1\" wild-type glioblastoma or healthy astrocytes. Among others, it increases the glioblastoma cells' dependence on glutamine or glutamate as an energy source. It has been hypothesized that \"IDH1\"-mutated glioblastoma are in a very high demand for glutamate and use this amino acid and neurotransmitter as a chemotactic signal. Since healthy astrocytes excrete glutamate, \"IDH1\"-mutated glioblastoma cells do not favor dense tumor structures but instead migrate, invade and disperse into healthy parts of the brain where glutamate concentrations are higher. This may explain the invasive behaviour of these \"IDH1\"-mutated glioblastoma.\n\nFurthermore, glioblastoma multiforme exhibits numerous alterations in genes that encode for ion channels, including upregulation of gBK potassium channels and ClC-3 chloride channels. It has been hypothesized that by upregulating these ion channels, glioblastoma tumor cells can facilitate increased ion movement over the cell membrane, thereby increasing HO movement through osmosis, which aids glioblastoma cells in changing cellular volume very rapidly. This is helpful in their extremely aggressive invasive behavior, because quick adaptations in cellular volume can facilitate movement through the sinuous extracellular matrix of the brain.\n\nWhen viewed with MRI, glioblastomas often appear as ring-enhancing lesions. The appearance is not specific, however, as other lesions such as abscess, metastasis, tumefactive multiple sclerosis, and other entities may have a similar appearance. Definitive diagnosis of a suspected GBM on CT or MRI requires a stereotactic biopsy or a craniotomy with tumor resection and pathologic confirmation. Because the tumor grade is based upon the most malignant portion of the tumor, biopsy or subtotal tumor resection can result in undergrading of the lesion. Imaging of tumor blood flow using perfusion MRI and measuring tumor metabolite concentration with MR spectroscopy may add value to standard MRI in select cases by showing increased relative cerebral blood volume and increased choline peak respectively, but pathology remains the gold standard for diagnosis and molecular characterization.\n\nIt is important to distinguish primary glioblastoma from secondary glioblastoma. These tumors occur spontaneously (\"de novo\") or have progressed from a lower-grade glioma, respectively. Primary glioblastomas have a worse prognosis, different tumor biology and may have a different response to therapy, which makes this a critical evaluation to determine patient prognosis and therapy. Over 80% of secondary glioblastoma carries a mutation in \"IDH1\", whereas this mutation is rare in primary glioblastoma (5–10%). Thus, \"IDH1\" mutations are a useful tool to distinguish primary and secondary glioblastomas since histopathologically they are very similar and the distinction without molecular biomarkers is unreliable.\n\nIt is very difficult to treat glioblastoma due to several complicating factors:\n\nTreatment of primary brain tumors and brain metastases consists of both symptomatic\nand palliative therapies.\n\nSupportive treatment focuses on relieving symptoms and improving the patient’s\nneurologic function. The primary supportive agents are anticonvulsants and\ncorticosteroids.\n\n\nPalliative treatment usually is conducted to improve quality of life and to achieve a longer survival time. It includes surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy. A maximally feasible resection with maximal tumor-free margins is usually performed along with external beam radiation and chemotherapy. Gross total resection of tumor is associated with a better prognosis.\n\nSurgery is the first stage of treatment of glioblastoma. An average GBM tumor contains 10 cells, which is on average reduced to 10 cells after surgery (a reduction of 99%).\nBenefits of surgery include resection for a pathological diagnosis, alleviation of symptoms related to mass effect, and potentially removing disease before secondary resistance to radiotherapy and chemotherapy occurs.\n\nThe greater the extent of tumor removal, the better. Removal of 98% or more of the tumor has been associated with a significantly longer healthier time than if less than 98% of the tumor is removed in retrospective analyses. The chances of near-complete initial removal of the tumor may be increased if the surgery is guided by a fluorescent dye known as 5-aminolevulinic acid. GBM cells are widely infiltrative through the brain at diagnosis, and so despite a \"total resection\" of all obvious tumor, most people with GBM later develop recurrent tumors either near the original site or at more distant locations within the brain. Other modalities, typically radiation and chemotherapy, are used after surgery in an effort to suppress and slow recurrent disease.\n\nSubsequent to surgery, radiotherapy becomes the mainstay of treatment for people with glioblastoma. It is typically performed along with giving temozolomide (TMZ). A pivotal clinical trial carried out in the early 1970s showed that among 303 GBM patients randomized to radiation or nonradiation therapy, those who received radiation had a median survival more than double those who did not. Subsequent clinical research has attempted to build on the backbone of surgery followed by radiation. On average, radiotherapy after surgery can reduce the tumor size to 10 cells. Whole-brain radiotherapy does not improve when compared to the more precise and targeted three-dimensional conformal radiotherapy. A total radiation dose of 60–65 Gy has been found to be optimal for treatment.\n\nGBM tumors are well known to contain zones of tissue exhibiting hypoxia which are highly resistant to radiotherapy. Various approaches to chemotherapy radiosensitizers have been pursued with limited success . newer research approaches included preclinical and clinical investigations into the use of an oxygen diffusion-enhancing compound such as trans sodium crocetinate (TSC) as radiosensitizers, and a clinical trial was underway.\n\nBoron neutron capture therapy has been tested as an alternative treatment for glioblastoma multiforme but is not in common use.\n\nMost studies show no benefit from the addition of chemotherapy. However, a large clinical trial of 575 participants randomized to standard radiation versus radiation plus temozolomide chemotherapy showed that the group receiving temozolomide survived a median of 14.6 months as opposed to 12.1 months for the group receiving radiation alone. This treatment regime is now standard for most cases of glioblastoma where the person is not enrolled in a clinical trial. Temozolomide seems to work by sensitizing the tumor cells to radiation.\n\nHigh doses of temozolomide in high-grade gliomas yield low toxicity, but the results are comparable to the standard doses.\n\nAntiangiogenic therapy with medications such as bevacizumab control symptoms but do not affect overall survival.\n\nAlternating electric field therapy is an FDA-approved therapy for newly diagnosed and recurrent glioblastoma. In 2015, initial results from a phase-three randomized clinical trial of alternating electric field therapy plus temozolomide in newly diagnosed glioblastoma reported a three-month improvement in progression-free survival, and a five-month improvement in overall survival compared to temozolomide therapy alone, representing the first large trial in a decade to show a survival improvement in this setting. Despite these results, the efficacy of this approach remains controversial among medical experts.\n\nThe most common length of survival following diagnosis is 12 to 15 months, with fewer than 3% to 5% of people surviving longer than five years. Without treatment survival is typically 3 months.\n\nIncreasing age (> 60 years of age) carries a worse prognostic risk. Death is usually due to widespread tumor infiltration with cerebral edema and increased intracranial pressure.\n\nA good initial Karnofsky Performance Score (KPS) and MGMT methylation are associated with longer survival. A DNA test can be conducted on glioblastomas to determine whether or not the promoter of the \"MGMT\" gene is methylated. Patients with a methylated MGMT promoter have longer survival than those with an unmethylated MGMT promoter, due in part to increased sensitivity to temozolomide. This DNA characteristic is intrinsic to the patient and currently cannot be altered externally. Another positive prognostic marker for glioblastoma patients is mutation of the \"IDH1\" gene, which can be tested by DNA-based methods or by immunohistochemistry using an antibody against the most common mutation, namely IDH1-R132H.\n\nMore prognostic power can be obtained by combining the mutational status of \"IDH1\" and the methylation status of \"MGMT\" into a two-gene predictor. Patients with both \"IDH1\" mutations and \"MGMT\" methylation have the longest survival, patients with an \"IDH1\" mutation or \"MGMT\" methylation an intermediate survival and patients without either genetic event have the shortest survival.\n\nLong-term benefits have also been associated with those patients who receive surgery, radiotherapy, and temozolomide chemotherapy. However, much remains unknown about why some patients survive longer with glioblastoma. Age of under 50 is linked to longer survival in glioblastoma multiforme, as is 98%+ resection and use of temozolomide chemotherapy and better Karnofsky performance scores. A recent study confirms that younger age is associated with a much better prognosis, with a small fraction of patients under 40 years of age achieving a population-based cure. The population-based cure is thought to occur when a population's risk of death returns to that of the normal population, and in GBM, this is thought to occur after 10 years.\n\nUCLA Neuro-Oncology publishes real-time survival data for patients with this diagnosis. They are the only institution in the United States that shows how their patients are performing. They also show a listing of chemotherapy agents used to treat GBM tumors. Despite a poor prognosis, there is a small number of survivors who have been GBM free for more than 10–20 years.\n\nAccording to a 2003 study, glioblastoma multiforme prognosis can be divided into three subgroups dependent on KPS, the age of the patient, and treatment.\n\nAbout 3 per 100,000 people develop the disease a year. It most often begins around 64 years of age and occurs more commonly in males than females. It is the second most common central nervous system cancer after meningioma.\n\nThe term glioblastoma multiforme was introduced in 1926 by Percival Bailey and Harvey Cushing, based on the idea that the tumor originates from primitive precursors of glial cells (glioblasts), and the highly variable appearance due to the presence of necrosis, hemorrhage and cysts (multiform).\n\nAs of 2012, RNA interference, usually microRNA, was under investigation in tissue culture, pathology specimens and in preclinical animal models of glioblastoma.\n\nGene therapy has been explored as a method to treat glioblastoma and while animal models and early phase clinical trials have been successful, as of 2017, all gene therapy drugs that had been tested in phase III clinical trials for glioblastoma had failed.\n\nA promising new direction of research (since 2017) is the use of the Zika virus which has shown promise in specifically targeting glioma stem cells while leaving adult brain cells unaffected. \n\nDirect nose-to-brain drug delivery is being explored as a means to achieve higher, and hopefully more effective, drug concentrations in the brain. A clinical phase I/II study with glioblastoma patients in Brazil investigated the natural compound perillyl alcohol for intranasal delivery as an aerosol. The results were encouraging and, as of 2016, a similar trial has been initiated in the United States.\n\nResearch has been done to see if consumption of cured meat is a risk factor. No risk had been confirmed as of 2013. Similarly, exposure to radiation during medical imaging, formaldehyde, and residential electromagnetic fields, such as from cell phones and electrical wiring within homes, have been studied as risk factors. As of 2015, they had not been shown to cause GBM. However, a meta-analysis published in 2007, found a correlation between increased incidence of GBM and use of a cell phone for longer than 10 years, especially among those who always held the phone on one side of their head.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24154230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24154230", "title": "Hazardous Substances Data Bank", "text": "Hazardous Substances Data Bank\n\nThe Hazardous Substances Data Bank (HSDB) is a toxicology database on the U.S. National Library of Medicine's (NLM) Toxicology Data Network (TOXNET). It focuses on the toxicology of potentially hazardous chemicals, and includes information on human exposure, industrial hygiene, emergency handling procedures, environmental fate, regulatory requirements, and related areas. All data are referenced and derived from a core set of books, government documents, technical reports, and selected primary journal literature. All entries are peer-reviewed by a Scientific Review Panel (SRP), members of which represent a spectrum of professions and interests. Current Chairs of the SRP are Dr. Marcel J. Cassavant, MD, Toxicology Group, and Dr. Roland Everett Langford, PhD, Environmental Fate Group.\n\nThe HSDB is organized into individual chemical records, and contains over 5000 such records. It is accessible free of charge via TOXNET. Users can search by chemical or other name, chemical name fragment, CAS registry number and/or subject terms. Recent additions include radioactive materials and certain mixtures, like crude oil and oil dispersants as well as animal toxins. , there are approximately 5,600 chemical specific HSDB records available.\n\nThe Toxicology Data Network (TOXNET) is a group of databases hosted on the National Library of Medicine (NLM) website that covers \"chemicals and drugs, diseases and the environment, environmental health, occupational safety and health, poisoning, risk assessment and regulations, and toxicology\". TOXNET is managed by the NLM's Toxicology and Environmental Health Information Program (TEHIP) in the Division of Specialized Information Services (SIS).\n\nThe TOXNET databases include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34048270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34048270", "title": "Help Remedies", "text": "Help Remedies\n\nHelp Remedies, Inc. is an American pharmaceutical company, founded by Richard Fine and Nathan Frank in 2008, based in New York City that sells an assortment of single-ingredient over-the-counter medications. The company has been noted for its unique product packaging and design ethic. All products are packaged in a flat, white, textured box that opens like a tin.\n\nHelp Remedies differ from many other over-the-counter drugs in that each product is made with a single active ingredient, for example, the medicine used to help with a headache only contains acetaminophen. Help Remedy's products also contain less dyes and coatings than many other drugs. Help Remedies' products are intended to exemplify simplicity. All of their products they offer are named based on the specific symptom which it's intended to treat so that customers know what they are taking. \nIn 2011, the company reached $4 million in sales and plans to expand to San Francisco, Seattle, Portland, Oregon, Austin, Texas, Chicago, and Miami.\n\nHelp Remedies products treat medical conditions such as nausea, headache or insomnia.\n"}
{"id": "146351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146351", "title": "Hospital ship", "text": "Hospital ship\n\nA hospital ship is a ship designated for primary function as a floating medical treatment facility or hospital. Most are operated by the military forces (mostly navies) of various countries, as they are intended to be used in or near war zones.\n\nAlthough attacking a hospital ship is a war crime, belligerent navies have the right to board such ships for inspections.\n\nIn the nineteenth century redundant warships were used as moored hospitals for seamen.\n\nHospital ships possibly existed in ancient times. The Athenian Navy had a ship named \"Therapia\", and the Roman Navy had a ship named \"Aesculapius\", their names indicating that they may have been hospital ships.\n\nThe earliest British hospital ship may have been the vessel \"Goodwill\", which accompanied a Royal Navy squadron in the Mediterranean in 1608 and was used to house the sick sent aboard from other ships. However this experiment in medical care was short-lived, with \"Goodwill\" assigned to other tasks within a year and her complement of convalescents simply left behind at the nearest port. It was not until the mid-seventeenth century that any Royal Navy vessels were formally designated as hospital ships, and then only two throughout the fleet. These were either hired merchant ship or elderly sixth rates, with the internal bulkheads removed to create more room, and additional ports cut through the deck and hull to increase internal ventilation.\n\nIn addition to their sailing crew, these seventeenth century hospital ships were staffed by a surgeon and four surgeon's mates. The standard issue of medical supplies were bandages, soap, needles and bedpans. Patients were offered a bed or rug to rest upon, and given a clean pair of sheets. These early hospital ships were for the care of the sick rather than the wounded, with patients quartered according to their symptoms and infectious cases quarantined from the general population behind a sheet of canvas. The quality of food was very poor. In the 1690s the surgeon aboard \"Siam\" complained that the meat was in an advanced state of putrefaction, the biscuits were weevil-ridden and bitter, and the bread was so hard that it stripped the skin off patient's mouths.\n\nHospital ships were also used for the treatment of wounded soldiers fighting on land. An early example of this was during an English operation to evacuate English Tangier in 1683. An account of this evacuation was written by Samuel Pepys, an eyewitness. One of the main concerns was the evacuation of sick soldiers \"and the many families and their effects to be brought off\". The hospital ships \"Unity\" and \"Welcome\" sailed for England on 18 October 1683 with 114 invalid soldiers and 104 women and children, arriving at The Downs on 14 December 1683.\n\nThe number of medical personnel aboard Royal Navy hospital ships was slowly increased, with regulations issued in 1703 requiring that each vessel also carry six landsmen to act surgical assistants, and four washerwomen. A 1705 amendment provided for a further five male nurses, and requisitions from the era suggest the number of sheets per patient was increased from one to two pairs. On 8 December 1798, unfit for service as a warship, was ordered to be converted to a hospital ship to hold wounded French and Spanish prisoners of war. According to Edward Hasted in 1798, two large hospital ships (also called lazarettos), (which were the surviving hulks of forty-four gun ships) were moored in Halstow Creek in Kent. The creek is an inlet from the River Medway and the River Thames. The crew of these vessels watched over ships coming to England, which were forced to stay in the creek under quarantine to protect the country from infectious diseases including the plague.\n\nFrom 1821 to 1870 the Seamen's Hospital Society provided HMS \"Grampus\", HMS \"Dreadnought\" and HMS \"Caledonia\" (later renamed \"Dreadnought\") as successive hospital ships moored at Deptford in London. In 1866 HMS \"Hamadryad\" was moored in Cardiff as a seamen's hospital, replaced in 1905 by the Royal Hamadryad Seamen's Hospital. Other redundant warships were used as hospitals for convicts and prisoners of war.\n\nThe institutionalization of the use of hospital ships by the Royal Navy occurred during the first half of the nineteenth century. By the standard of the medical provision available at the time for convalescent soldiers, hospital ships were generally superior in their standard of service and sanitation. It was during the Crimean War in the 1850s that the modern hospital ship began to emerge. The only military hospital available to the British forces fighting on the Crimean Peninsula was at Scutari near the Dardanelles. Over the course of the Siege of Sevastopol, almost 15,000 wounded troops were transported there from the port at Balaklava by a squadron of converted hospital ships.\n\nThe first ships to be equipped with genuine medical facilities were the steamships HMS \"Melbourne\" and HMS \"Mauritius\". These hospitals were manned by the Medical Staff Corps and provided services to the British expedition to China in 1860. The ships provided relatively spacious accommodation for the patients and were equipped with an operating theatre. Another early example of a hospital ship was in the 1860s, which aided the wounded soldiers of both sides during the American Civil War.\n\nDuring the Russo-Turkish War (1877–78), the British Red Cross supplied a steel-hulled ship, equipped with modern surgery equipment including chloroform and other anaesthetics and carbolic acid for antisepsis. Similar vessels accompanied the 1882 invasion of Egypt and aided American personnel during the Spanish–American War.\n\nHospital ships were used by both sides in the Russo-Japanese War (1904–05). It was the sighting by the Japanese of the Russian hospital ship \"Orel\", correctly illuminated in accordance with regulations, that led to the decisive naval Battle of Tsushima. \"Orel\" was retained as a prize of war by the Japanese after the battle.\n\nDuring World War I and World War II, hospital ships were first used on a massive scale. Many passenger liners were converted for use as hospital ships. and were two famous examples of ships serving in this capacity. By the end of the First World War, The British Royal Navy had 77 such ships in service. During the Gallipoli Campaign, hospital ships were used to evacuate over 100,000 wounded personnel to Egypt.\n\nCanada operated hospital ships in both world wars. In World War I these included SS \"Letitia\" (I) and which was deliberately sunk by a German U-boat with great loss of life, despite the hospital ship's clearly marked status. In World War II, Canada operated the hospital ship and SS \"Letitia (II).\n\nThe first purposely built hospital ship in the U.S. Navy was which was commissioned in 1921. During World War II both the United States Navy and Army operated hospital ships though with different purposes. Naval hospital ships were fully equipped hospitals designed to receive casualties direct from the battlefield and also supplied to provide logistical support to front line medical teams ashore. Army hospital ships were essentially hospital transports intended and equipped to evacuate patients from forward area Army hospitals to rear area hospitals or from those to the United States and were not equipped or staffed to handle large numbers of direct battle casualties. Three of the Navy hospital ships, , , and , were less elaborately equipped than other Navy hospital ships, medically staffed by Army medical personnel and similar in purpose to the Army model.\nThe last British royal yacht, the post World War II , was ostensibly constructed in a way as to be easily convertible to a hospital ship in wartime. After her decommissioning, Peter Hennessey discovered that this was a cover story: her actual role would have been as Queen Elizabeth II's refuge from nuclear weapons, hiding amidst the lochs (fjords) of western Scotland.\n\nA development of the Lun-class ekranoplan was planned for use as a mobile field hospital for rapid deployment to any ocean or coastal location at a speed of 297 knots (550 km/h, 341.8 mph). Work was 90% complete on this model, \"Spasatel\", but Soviet military funding ceased and it was never completed.\n\nSome hospital ships, such as and \"Esperanza del Mar\", belong to civilian agencies, and as such are not part of any navy. Mercy Ships, an international charity, do not belong to any government.\n\nHospital ships were covered under the Hague Convention X of 1907. Article four of the Hague Convention X outlined the restrictions for a hospital ship:\n\nAccording to the San Remo Manual on International Law Applicable to Armed Conflicts at Sea, a hospital ship violating legal restrictions must be duly warned and given a reasonable time limit to comply. If a hospital ship persists in violating restrictions, a belligerent is legally entitled to capture it or take other means to enforce compliance. A non-complying hospital ship may only be fired on under the following conditions:\n\nIn all other circumstances, attacking a hospital ship is a war crime.\n\nModern hospital ships display large Red Crosses or Red Crescents to signify their Geneva Convention protection under the laws of war. Even so, marked vessels have not been completely free from attack. Notable examples of hospital ships deliberately attacked during wartime are in 1915, the in 1941 and in 1943.\n\nIt is common for naval ships, especially large ships such as aircraft carriers and amphibious assault ships to have on-board hospitals. However, they are only one small part of the vessel's overall capability, and are used primarily for the ship's crew and its amphibious forces (and occasionally for relief missions). They do not qualify as \"hospital ships\", as they are not marked and designated as such, and as armed vessels they are disqualified from protection as a hospital ship under international law.\nExamples of these ships from various navies include;\n\nSeveral classes of US Navy ships are equipped with on-board hospitals;\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7915674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7915674", "title": "Illinois agility test", "text": "Illinois agility test\n\nThe Illinois agility test is a fitness test designed to test one's sport agility. It is a simple test which is easy to administer and requires little equipment. It tests the ability to turn in different directions and at different angles.\n\nThe aim of the test is to complete a weaving running course in the shortest possible time. Cones mark the course. The subject starts face down, with the head to the start line and hands by the shoulders. At the whistle, the subject runs the course, without knocking down any cones.\n\nThe course can be measured out either in meters or feet (10 m long by 5 m wide or 30 ft long by 15 ft wide)\nThe world record for the test was formerly held by Nick Wald (AUS) who completed the course in 10.28 seconds on 9 December 2011, until he was stripped of his title after an investigation conducted by WADA (World Anti Doping Agency) in late 2011 as he was found to have \"an above average level of MDMA within his blood stream\". WADA's investigation of Nick Wald led to the arrest of Dr. Henry Sestak and Dr. Dominic Mallia, for possessing and administering excessive amounts of MDMA into the bloodstream of numerous athletes.\n\nThe world record is currently held by Miltiadis Papachatzakis (Greece). Miltiadis completed the course in 10.14 seconds on October 14 2016, in Athens, Greece. Miltiadis is believed to currently be on two strikes under the sports illicit drugs policy. Miltiadis was awarded a second strike in early 2016 for testing positive to an illicit substance during his visit to Colombia. \n\nFormer world record holder Dan Kerr has declared that he will return to the sport when his current drug ban expires. WADA handed down Kerr a four-year ban from the sport in 2012, for administering and possessing high levels of diuretic tablets.\n"}
{"id": "14514778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14514778", "title": "Immunisation Programme in Hong Kong", "text": "Immunisation Programme in Hong Kong\n\nIn order to protect infants and children from serious infectious diseases, the Department of Health of Hong Kong provides a free comprehensive childhood immunisation programme to Hongkongers over all the Maternal & Child Health Centres. For primary 1 and primary 6 students, Department of Health dispatches immunisation teams to schools for the required vaccinations.\n\n"}
{"id": "14833451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14833451", "title": "Impulse (psychology)", "text": "Impulse (psychology)\n\nAn impulse is a wish or urge, particularly a sudden one. It can be considered as a normal and fundamental part of human thought processes, but also one that can become problematic, as in a condition like obsessive-compulsive disorder, borderline personality disorder, and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.\n\nThe ability to control impulses, or more specifically control the desire to act on them, is an important factor in personality and socialization. Deferred gratification, also known as impulse control is an example of this, concerning impulses primarily relating to things that a person wants or desires.\n"}
{"id": "4067680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4067680", "title": "Jakarta Declaration", "text": "Jakarta Declaration\n\nThe Jakarta Declaration on Leading Health Promotion into the 21st Century is the name of an international agreement that was signed at the World Health Organization's 1997 Fourth International Conference on Health Promotion held in Jakarta. The declaration reiterated the importance of the agreements made in the Ottawa Charter for Health Promotion, and added emphasis to certain aspects of health promotion.\n\nThe Jakarta Declaration included the following five \"priorities for health promotion in the 21st century\":\n\nThe declaration recognizes that\": \n\nIn the United Kingdom, the central message of the Jakarta declaration is similar to the government's current health policy. That is the emphasis on infrastructure and investment, with the hope of empowering the service user with choice.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14411095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14411095", "title": "Jermuk (water)", "text": "Jermuk (water)\n\nJermuk () is a bottled mineral water originating from the town of Jermuk in Vayots Dzor Province, Armenia. The water is being bottled since 1951.\n\nCurrently, the brand is bottled and produced by the Jermuk Group CJSC, founded in 1999 in Jermuk, classified into 2 categories: \"Jermuk Classic\" mineral carbonated water, and \"Jermuk Millennium\" mineral mildly carbonated water. In 2015-16 the factory of \"Jermuk Mayr Gortsaran\" founded in 1951 was acquired by the Jermuk Group. \n\nJermuk mineral water has been used for its medicinal properties since centuries, as is clear from primitive stone basins, one of which has survived as a reminder of the past. Jermuk was first mentioned in writing in 189 AD, when Jermuk fortress was built, with the eponymous town being founded some time later. According to historical records, Jermuk was the summer residence of the Armenian princes of the neighbouring province of Syunik.\n\nThe first surveys of the area around Jermuk (including the composition and properties of its mineral waters) were made in 1830 by the Russian geologist and engineer G. Dzoyokoyev-Boykikov; these did not result in the commercial exploitation of \"Jermuk\" mineral water, however. Only in 1925-1935 did well-known scientists like V. Alexandrov S. Nalbandov, V. Dikin and A. Melik-Aramyan and others subject Jermuk's mineral waters to scientific examination, in the process confirming its unquestionable medicinal properties. In 1945 the Soviet government took the decision to turn Jermuk town into a health resort of nationwide significance, in view of the mineral water's extraordinary healing properties. By the 1970s the visitors to Jermuk's sanatoria numbered 25-30,000 people yearly.\n\nIn its chemical composition, it is similar to the waters of Jeleznovodsk and Karlovy Vary, but in its taste it has no equal.\n\nProduction is organized in the town of Jermuk itself, at source nr. 30/62, from where both Jermuk mineral water and natural carbon dioxide gas enter the factory's production cycle and are bottled and packaged using the latest automated technology. The constantly high quality of Jermuk mineral water is assured by the use of contemporary machinery, through the efforts of capable experts, and thanks to the continuous supervision of the factory's central laboratory. Jermuk mineral water is produced in 0.5 litre standard and company glass bottles, as well as in 0.5, 1.0 and 1.5 litre plastic (PET) bottles, all made out of materials suitable for foodstuffs and hermetically sealed. Its expiration date is 12 months from production, provided it is stored in a cool and dark place. Jermuk mineral water has been certified by the state standards' authorities in both the Republic of Armenia and the Russian Federation, according to Armenian standard nr. 191-2000.\n\nOn a daily basis, the company's central lab supervises its microbiological purity and its chemical composition's main elements, which have to correspond to the following standard, mentioned on international labels.\n\nChemical composition:\n\nJermuk mineral water various packaging:\n\nMay 31, 2007: the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is warning consumers in the West Chester, Pennsylvania area not to drink any Jermuk brand mineral water due to the risk of exposure to arsenic, a toxic substance and a know cause of cancer in humans. Jermuk Classic Medicinal Table Natural Sparkling Mineral Water in 0.5 liter green translucent glass bottles under the Jermuk Group brand label was recalled on 5/1/07 by AA Impex Group, Philadelphia, PA. Approximately, 200 bottles of the product were sold at the Great Pumpkin Corporation, 607 East Market Street, West Chester, PA, a retail store. FDA has sampled the product and found that it contains 536-539 micrograms of arsenic per liter of water. FDA's standard of quality for bottled water allows no more than 10 micrograms per liter. Product can be returned to the Great Pumpkin for a refund. There have been no illnesses reported at this time. Consumers who drank this water and have concerns are encouraged to contact their health care provider.\n\nJune 12, 2017: the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) sampled products in California and found that Jermuk brand mineral water, along with Arpi Mineral Water, contained levels of arsenic above 450 micrograms. This is a 17% decrease from the amount found 10 years before, but is still 4500% more than the maximum allowable amount (10 micrograms per liter).\n\n"}
{"id": "6848104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6848104", "title": "Jim Moss", "text": "Jim Moss\n\nJim Moss (born March 3, 1977 in Toronto, Ontario) is a former professional lacrosse player. Moss was named the National Lacrosse League's Defensive Player of the Year in 2003. Entered into the Brampton Sports Hall of Fame in 2007 as well as the Canadian Lacrosse Hall of Fame as a member of Team Canada in 2007. Moss represented Team Canada in three sports (Ice Hockey, Field Lacrosse, Indoor Lacrosse) winning gold, silver, and bronze medals in international competition and is a winner of Canada's historic Mann Cup.\n\nAfter suffering recovering from a career ending illness in 2009, In 2012, Jim founded \"The Smile Epidemic\", an online gratitude project where individuals share photos of what has made them smile throughout their day. The project attracted participants from over 450 cities and 100 countries around the globe.\n\nIn 2014, The Smile Epidemic Inc. launched Plasticity Labs of which Mr Moss is the Chief Happiness Officer (CEO). Plasticity is a research and technology platform that develops the psychological skills that drive happiness to 1 billion people. Plasticity's web and mobile apps are used by small and large enterprises (TD Bank, Lululemon) to help improve workplace culture and deliver happiness to employees and customers. Plasticity is founded in Positive and Social Psychology principles and delivers behavioural habit training to leverage Neuroplasticity when training individuals online. Articles about Plasticity's research findings have been published in the Harvard Business Review and the company recently has recently launched its first book \"Unlocking Happiness at Work\", authored by co-founder and wife Jennifer Moss. in 2015 Canadian Business Magazine featured Moss and his co-founders on their cover as they were named 2015 Innovators of the Year - they have since been featured on CNN, BNN, and co-founded the first World Happiness Summit (WOHASU) held in Miami Florida in March 2017.\n\nJim Moss played both ice hockey and lacrosse his entire early life and ultimately earned the opportunity to represent team Canada in three sports - Ice Hockey, Field Lacrosse, and Indoor Lacrosse.\n\nGrowing up, he played hockey in Brampton, Ontario, Canada starting at the age of seven, where he is now a member of the Brampton Sports Hall of Fame. He began playing Junior A tier 2 for the Brampton Capitals at the age of 15 and then went on to become a member of the London Knights OHL hockey club for the 96-97 season and the 97-98 season. He was named team captain of the 97-98 squad. Following the Ontario Hockey League, he played for the Western Mustangs University team in the CIAU and represented Team Canada at the FISU World Games in Slovakia, where the team earned a bronze medal. He finished his hockey career off with the Huntington Blizzards of the ECHL after suffering a number of concussions he was forced to take a season off and decided at that time to return to professional lacrosse in NLL.\n\nJim's lacrosse career also began in Brampton Ontario, playing in the Ontario Minor Lacrosse Association. He was called up to play Junior for the Brampton Excelsiors in 1992, and then represented Canada with the Jr Men's National Lacrosse team in 1996. Jim served as Team Captain in their silver medal winning effort. Jim was also selected to represent Team Canada in the first ever World Indoor Lacrosse Championship where he won his first gold medal. Jim also played for the Brampton Excelsiors Sr. Lacrosse team where he won his first Mann Cup in 2005, scoring the series winning goal against the Victoria Shamrocks. While living and playing lacrosse in San Jose California, Jim coached children at all ages and competitive classes, both men's and women's lacrosse, and including an assistant coaching role with the Stanford NCAA Division 1 Women's lacrosse program.\n\nJim has been married to his wife Jennifer Leigh Moss (formerly Jennifer Young) since July 9, 2005. The couple has one son, Wyatt, and two daughters, Olivia and Lyla. Wyatt is a high potential competitive dancer finishing in the top 10 for boys his age in North America.\n\nIn September 2009, Jim Moss contracted what was believed to be Guillane-Barre Syndrome. Since then this diagnosis has been rescinded, leaving his diagnosis as an undefined post-viral neuro-muscular disease. The Auto-immune disease ended Jim's professional sports career. After keeping a private gratitude journal in the hospital and while he learned to walk again, he began to share this publicly which garnered much support. By simply writing what made him smile or that he was grateful for on a piece of paper above an image of a smile, his current project, The Smile Epidemic, was born.\n\nExperiencing Post Traumatic Growth Jim began The Smile Epidemic, an update on the classic concept of a gratitude journal, which capitalizes on the popularity and capacities of Internet sharing and social network technologies. In its simplest format, users interface digitally, capturing and sharing photos of what made them smile throughout their day.\n\nThe campaign garnered significant momentum, including a feature on CTV and CBC News. Jim was also featured on the Oprah Winfrey Network's Life Story Project in February 2013. The Smile Epidemic was selected to present at the SXSW 2013 festival in Austin, Texas in March, 2013.\n\nThe Smile Epidemic has since blossomed into a B2B Software company, called Plasticity Labs building research-based applications to improve people's health happiness and performance in the workplace. Plasticity is a Social Innovation company where they charge companies and organisations to use their software and give it away for free to individuals and school aged children.\n\nWith a deeply held belief that research is the key to understanding human happiness, Plasticity continuously contributes to the academic understanding of human flourishing. The HERO Generation is the research and technology solution that focuses on giving school-aged children the character traits they need to thrive at school, and in life.\n\nMoss's personal lifelong mission is to create the world's leading international research facility to understand and improve the happiness of people of all ages, genders, races, and cultures around the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "33973022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33973022", "title": "Journal of Correctional Health Care", "text": "Journal of Correctional Health Care\n\nThe Journal of Correctional Health Care is a quarterly peer-reviewed healthcare journal that publishes papers four times a year in the field of health care in correctional settings. The editor-in-chief is John R. Miles. It was established 1994 and is currently published by SAGE Publications in association with the National Commission on Correctional Health Care.\n\nThe \"Journal of Correctional Health Care\" is abstracted and indexed in:\n"}
{"id": "58630568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58630568", "title": "Knee-chest position", "text": "Knee-chest position\n\nThe knee-chest position is a position used in a number of medical situations including gynecological examination and surgery and lumbar spine surgery. The knee-chest position is recommended in those with a cord prolapse until delivery can occur.\n"}
{"id": "46340789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46340789", "title": "Land Reform (Scotland) Act 2003", "text": "Land Reform (Scotland) Act 2003\n\nThe Land Reform (Scotland) Act 2003 is an Act of the Scottish Parliament which establishes statutory public rights of access to land and makes provisions under which bodies representing rural and crofting communities may buy land.\n\nThe 2003 Act includes three main provisions: the creation of a legal framework for land access, the community right to buy, and the crofting community right to buy. The first part of the act codifies into Scots law the right to universal access to land in Scotland. The act specifically establishes a right to be on land for recreational, educational and certain other purposes and a right to cross land. The rights exist only if they are exercised responsibly, as specified in the Scottish Outdoor Access Code. Access rights apply to any non-motorised activities, including walking, cycling, horse-riding and wild camping. They also allow access on inland water for canoeing, rowing, sailing and swimming.\n\nThe second part of the act establishes the community right to buy, allowing communities with populations of up to 10,000 to register an interest in land, entitling them to first right of refusal should the owner put the land up for sale or intend to transfer ownership, provided a representative community body can be formed to carry out the purchase.\n\nFinally, the third part establish the crofting community right to buy which allows crofting communities to purchase crofts and associated land from existing landowners. It differs from the community right to buy in that it can be exercised at any time, regardless of whether the land has been put on the market, allowing crofting communities to purchase land even in the absence of a willing seller.\n\n"}
{"id": "30930622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30930622", "title": "Leon Benzaquen", "text": "Leon Benzaquen\n\nLeon Benzaquen (Tangier, 31 December 1928 – May 1977) was a Jewish-Moroccan doctor who became the personal doctor for King Mohammed V of Morocco, and the first Jewish-Moroccan minister after Morocco received its independence in 1956, in its first independent kingdom and government. He was first appointed as telegraph and Communications minister and later minister of Health, a post occupied by Benzaquen until 1958.\n\nWhen Morocco received its independence in 1956, the Jewish community held quite a few respectable political positions, including three parliamentarian seats and one cabinet post as mail and telegraph minister. Upon receiving its independence in 1956, the Sultan insisted upon the appointment of Leon Benzaquen, while the Jewish community was unable to reach a consensus on whom to send as a representative to the cabinet. coincident with his appointment Benzaquen expressed his favor opinion on the Jewish right to immigrate, pending it will not include pressure or propaganda. The problem at the time was the objection of various forces in Morocco to a mass Jewish immigration that will play into the hands of the Jewish Agency for Israel, however the right to immigrate was in fact recognized on an individual basis. He also claimed that Morocco and Tunisia may play a role in mediating between the Arab states and Israel, and that despite not being able to express their opinion in public, the Moroccan leaders do not sense any sympathy towards Gamal Abdel Nasser or other Arab dictators in the middle east.\n\nThe prevailing view is that Benzaquen remained neutral during the Morocco's struggle for independence, due to an internal Jewish struggle among Jewish-Moroccan modernists, graduates of AIU, Zionists, and traditionalists (In 1944, he refused to sign the first Independence Manifesto of the \"Istiqlal\" group, who opposed the occupation but also the kingdom).\n\nDespite this gesture of good will towards the Jewish-Moroccan community, in appointing Leon Benzaquen to a ministerial post, Benzaquen did not survive in occupying the post when there was a government reshuffle for the first time in Morocco since it received its independence, and Jews in Morocco were no longer appointed to the cabinet (until the '80s).\n"}
{"id": "388137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=388137", "title": "Loveline", "text": "Loveline\n\nLoveline was a syndicated radio call-in program in North America, offering medical and relationship advice to listeners, often with the assistance of guests, typically actors and musicians. Its host through most of its run was Dr. Drew Pinsky, who would be paired with a radio personality.\n\n\"Loveline\" was broadcast live, Sundays through Thursdays at 10pm–midnight PT (Mondays through Fridays at 1am–3am ET). Its flagship station was KROQ-FM in Los Angeles. Syndication was usually on rock, alternative, and adult talk radio stations. \"Loveline\" could also be heard online anywhere in the world, by streaming through the websites of affiliate stations.\n\nThe radio show was discontinued in April 2016. After a hiatus, the show was rebooted as a podcast with Amber Rose and social worker Chris Donaghue as hosts. The reboot podcast ran from September 8, 2016 until March 17, 2018.\n\n\"Loveline\" began in 1983 as a Sunday night dating and relationships segment on Los Angeles radio station KROQ-FM, hosted by DJ Jim \"Poorman\" Trenton, DJ Swedish Egil (Egil Aalvik), and Scott Mason. After a traumatic break up, Mason announced that he would no longer be hosting the show.\n\nIn 1984, Trenton added a segment called \"Ask a Surgeon,\" hosted by his friend Drew Pinsky, who at the time, was a fourth-year medical student at the University of Southern California. The medical segment was pre-dated by an occasional legal segment in which a lawyer, known as \"Lawyer Lee\" would be present to answer legal questions. As \"Loveline\" developed and increased its audience, Pinsky became a public figure in his own right, and the show began referring to him informally as \"Dr. Drew\". He eventually came to co-host the show with Trenton. In February 1992, the show expanded from Sunday nights to five nights a week, Sunday through Thursday. In August 1993 Trenton was replaced by former MTV VJ Riki Rachtman.\n\nPinsky and Rachtman were joined by Adam Carolla in October 1995, as the show was first being syndicated nationally. The trio hosted together for several months, but Carolla and Rachtman often competed for airtime, leading Rachtman to resign in January 1996. Carolla and Pinsky would go on to host the show together until Carolla's departure in November 2005.\n\nThe popularity and reach of \"Loveline\" increased dramatically in the ten years during which it was hosted by Pinsky and Carolla. The two had a natural chemistry, in which Carolla's jocular tone emphasized Pinsky's reasoned expertise. Together, they refined the format of the show, and capitalized on their growing popularity with speaking tours, a television show on MTV (also titled \"Loveline\"), a book, and cameo appearances on television series and movies. In November 2005, Carolla left \"Loveline\" to prepare for a new morning radio show, \"The Adam Carolla Show\", which began airing in January 2006.\n\nAfter Carolla's departure, he was substituted on a temporary basis by numerous celebrity guests, some of whom announced their desire to take the job permanently. During his first appearance on Carolla's new morning show, Pinsky revealed that the shortlist of candidates included Carson Daly, Joel McHale, Danny Bonaduce, Steve-O and Daniel Tosh. On July 23, 2006, KROQ-FM disc jockey Stryker was hired as Pinsky's co-host.\n\nOn April 22, 2009, Stryker announced that due to financial cutbacks at Westwood One, he would be leaving the show and it would be his last appearance that night. After Stryker's departure, a number of celebrities guest co-hosted opposite Drew. On March 11, 2010, it was announced that Mike \"Psycho Mike\" Catherwood from \"The Kevin and Bean Show\" would co-host \"Loveline\" with Dr. Drew.\n\nAfter a long stint as a guest host, Simone Bienne was formally brought on as a co-host in December 2011. This followed Westwood One's merger with Dial Global. She was introduced to the show by Dr. Drew through \"Lifechangers\", and is the first female co-host of the radio show. As of November 2012 she is no longer a host.\n\nOn December 7, 2012, Adam Carolla rejoined Dr. Drew for a Loveline-style \"Reunion Tour\" of the US to promote their new podcast, The Adam & Dr. Drew Show.\n\nOn January 5, 2015, Catherwood and Pinsky launched a new program, \"Dr. Drew Midday Live with Mike Catherwood\" on KABC in Los Angeles.\n\nOn March 16, 2016, Catherwood announced that he would be leaving the show to focus more on raising his daughter. His final episode was March 31, 2016.\n\nOn April 21, 2016, Dr. Drew announced Loveline would wrap up on April 28, 2016. Adam Carolla re-joined him as co-host for the final show.\n\nOn September 8, 2016, the show was rebooted as a weekly podcast, with Amber Rose and Dr. Chris Donaghue serving as hosts. Ann Ingold was named producer. The final episode of the podcast was released on March 8th, 2018.\n\n\"Loveline\" follows the call-in question-and-answer model with the primary goal of helping youth and young adults with relationship, sexuality, and drug addiction problems through the expertise of Pinsky, an internist and addiction medicine specialist, and the humorous context and insight provided by a comedic host. Adam Carolla explained his role as a \"sheep in wolf's clothing\". Furthermore, the comedy is often necessary to keep spirits high, as the show frequently handles callers who are dealing with serious issues such as drug addiction, sexual abuse, and domestic violence.\n\nThe show will occasionally answer calls of a general medical nature, especially on slow nights or if they seem peculiar. Also, listeners are encouraged to participate in Loveline's many games.\n\n\nFor Pinsky (in the case of medical physicians) or Psycho Mike (in the case of usual comedic co-host)\n\n\nThe show has had many engineers throughout the years who have developed their own on-air presence. Whether it be conversations with hosts and guests or specific \"radio drops\" that they have produced usually from clips of previous shows.\n<br>\n\nA TV version of \"Loveline\" ran on MTV from 1996–2000; which was produced by Stone Stanley Entertainment. It followed the same general format as the radio program but featured a live audience and a female co-host. The female co-host role was filled over the course of the series by MTV VJ Idalis, actresses Kris McGaha, Catherine McCord, Diane Farr and comedian Laura Kightlinger. \"Loveline TV\" was filmed at Hollywood Center Studios.\n\n\"The Dr. Drew and Adam Book: A Survival Guide to Life and Love\", an advice book written in a tone similar to the radio show, was released in 1998.\n\nThe series has also spawned a number of \"Loveline\"-inspired games that have been mentioned on the show.\n\nA thinly-veiled reference to \"Loveline\" can be seen in the 1989 film Heathers in a scene featuring a radio call-in advice program called \"Hot Probs\" hosted by none other than Jim Trenton, a former host of \"Loveline\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10067589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10067589", "title": "MAGIC Foundation", "text": "MAGIC Foundation\n\nThe MAGIC foundation for children's growth is an American non-profit organization which helps families of children diagnosed with a wide variety of different growth impacting medical conditions through education, networking, physician referrals and numerous other services. It was founded in 1989. It is maintained through a network of volunteers and a full-time staff of five people. MAGIC is short for \"Major Aspects of Growth In Children\".\n\nThe foundation has a membership network in excess of 25,000 families. The disorders MAGIC families have are grouped into primary categories. They include: congenital adrenal hyperplasia, precocious puberty, growth hormone deficiency (both adults and children), panhypopituitarism, McCune-Albright syndrome, Turner syndrome, Russell-Silver syndrome, thyroid disorders (both congenital and acquired), optic nerve hypoplasia, and other rare disorders.\n\nMAGIC offers a national educational program every year for the families of affected children and another for affected adults. Physicians specialising in these disorders, from all over the world, volunteer to speak to and assist the children and affected adults. They also offer a weekly email with links to recently published medical information to parents of children impacted by Small for Gestational Age babies, Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia, McCune-Albright Syndrome, Russell-Silver Syndrome (also known as Silver-Russell Syndrome), Optic Nerve Hypoplasia, Septo Optic Dysplasia, Hypophosphatasia, and others.\n\nThe MAGIC Foundation received significant funding from Genentech and Eli Lilly. It was thought that the money was to undertake case finding of children with short stature who might benefit from their human growth hormone treatments. The US Food and Drug Administration investigated Genentech in 1992 and 1994 for using numerous charities to improperly advertise this medication. None of the monies donated to either the Human Growth Foundation nor The Magic foundation were donated with any stipulations as to how the money was to be utilized. The donations were support funds for the patients affected.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22517503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22517503", "title": "Mark Ragins", "text": "Mark Ragins\n\nMark Raginsis an American psychiatrist in the recovery movement in mental health care.\n\nHe is a founding member of the Village ISA, where his work with people with severe mental illness led him to become one of the leading voices in recovery-based treatment theory. He is the author of numerous writings on recovery-based mental health care and reforming mental health systems to provide recovery-based care. His full-length book, \"Road to Recovery\" is available for free online.\n\nHe is a frequent lecturer and consultant nationally and internationally as well as a trainer for psychiatric residents through the University of Southern California's psychiatry residency. He was the co-recipient of the American Psychiatric Association’s 1995 van Ameringen Award for his outstanding contribution to the field of psychiatric rehabilitation and was named a Distinguished Fellow of the American Psychiatric Association in 2006 for his continuing work in recovery-based mental health care. Additionally, he received the US Psychiatric Rehabilitation Association's John Beard Lifetime achievement award in 2011.\n\nRagins appears as a character in the book The Soloist by Steve Lopez, which was released in a movie version in 2009.\n"}
{"id": "49443510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49443510", "title": "Maternal and Child Health Journal", "text": "Maternal and Child Health Journal\n\nThe Maternal and Child Health Journal is a quarterly peer-reviewed medical journal covering maternal and child health. It was established in 1997 and is published by Springer Science+Business Media. It is sponsored by, among other organizations, the Association of Maternal and Child Health Programs, the Association of Teachers of Maternal and Child Health, and CityMatCH. The editor-in-chief is Timothy Dye (University of Rochester School of Medicine). According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 1.788.\n"}
{"id": "45367054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45367054", "title": "Mieke Mosmuller", "text": "Mieke Mosmuller\n\nMieke Mosmuller-Crull (born 1951 in Amsterdam as \"Mieke Crull\") is a Dutch medical doctor, author, and novelist.\n\nMosmuller was a student at the Barlaeus Gymnasium in Amsterdam and then began a study of medicine at the University of Amsterdam. Together with her husband Jos Mosmuller, she began a practice as a house-doctor and opened an apothecary in Sittard. Since this time, she has written a number of books in Dutch, German, English, and Danish on themes related to Rudolf Steiner's anthroposophy.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42569337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42569337", "title": "Ministry of Public Health (Uzbekistan)", "text": "Ministry of Public Health (Uzbekistan)\n\nThe Ministry of Public Health of the Republic of Uzbekistan, (), is an agency of the government of Uzbekistan, headquartered in Tashkent.\n"}
{"id": "38068881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38068881", "title": "Native American ethnobotany", "text": "Native American ethnobotany\n\nThis is a list of plants used by the indigenous people of North America. For lists pertaining specifically to the Cherokee, Navajo, and Zuni, see Cherokee ethnobotany, Navajo ethnobotany, and Zuni ethnobotany.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe entire echinacea plant is used medicinally, both dried and fresh. Common preparations include making a decoction or infusion of the roots and leaves, making a poultice of parts of the plant, juicing the root or simply using the leaves as they were.\n\nEchinacea contains essential oils and polysaccharides that boost the immune system, leading to a faster recovery from various illnesses. Due to this property, echinacea has been commercialized and has had clinical trials support that it reduces the duration of a cold by 1–4 days and reduces the chance of developing a cold by 58%.\n\n\n\n\nWitch hazel works as an astringent, a substance that causes the constriction of body tissues. The tannins and flavonoids found in witch hazel have astringent and antioxidant properties, respectively, which are thought to contract and protect blood vessels, thereby reducing inflammation. However, modern witch hazel extracts are often distilled and do not contain tannins due to health concerns.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nWillow bark contains salicin, a compound similar to aspirin that has anti-inflammatory, antipyretic, and analgesic properties. The following table examines why various tribes use willow.\n\nOne reason for the vast differences in the use of the willow is that there are many ways to prepare it and these different preparations allow for it to be utilized in different ways. For example, the Thompson people would make a concoction of wood, willow, soapberry branches and \"anything weeds\" to treat broken bones. If they wanted to treat a cold, however, the Thompson people would make a decoction of red willow branches and wild rose roots.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44797505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44797505", "title": "Neurotic Personality Questionnaire KON-2006", "text": "Neurotic Personality Questionnaire KON-2006\n\nThe Neurotic Personality Questionnaire KON-2006 is a psychometric tool used for diagnosing personality dysfunctions that contribute to the development of neurotic disorders. The use of the questionnaire may facilitate the diagnosis of neurotic disorder, as well as make it easier to differentiate between neurotic and pseudoneurotic syndroms, e.g. reaction to stress. Moreover, the questionnaire enables evaluation of changes occurring in the course of treatment.\n\nThe questionnaire has been created by Jerzy W. Aleksandrowicz, Katarzyna Klasa, Jerzy A. Sobański and Dorota Stolarska in the Department of Psychotherapy of the Jagiellonian University Medical College in Kraków, Poland.\n\nThe questionnaire consists of 243 items that require positive or negative answer. They determine the values of 24 scales that describe areas related to the development of neurotic disorders, as well as the value of X-KON index that describes the global intensity of neurotic personality. Currently, only the Polish and Ukrainian versions of KON-2006 are available, however a number of studies based on the tool has been published in English.\n\nThe following working (approximate) names were given to KON-2006 scales: \n\nSearch for and selection of items that were used for the creation of the KON-2006 questionnaire were based on empirical methods. Analysis of usefulness of 779 items was conducted (including items drawn from scales belonging to various personality and temperament inventories e.g. 16PF, MMPI, PTS, TTS, IPIP, TCI). Clarity, explicitness and comprehensiveness of each item was evaluated and appropriate improvements were implemented. Next, a comparison of answers was made between healthy individuals and the patients that were beginning treatment due to neurotic disorders. This allowed to select 243 items most useful in differentiation of the patients with neurotic disorders from the healthy individuals. These items were used for the creation of Neurotic Personality Questionnaire. The construction of 24 scales was based on cluster analysis conducted on the population of patients at the beginning of treatment and control groups.\n\n"}
{"id": "47656471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47656471", "title": "Obesity and cancer", "text": "Obesity and cancer\n\nThe association between obesity, as defined by a body mass index of 30 or higher, and risk of a variety of types of cancer has received a considerable amount of attention in recent years. Obesity has been associated with an increased risk of esophageal cancer, \npancreatic cancer, colorectal cancer, breast cancer (among postmenopausal women), endometrial cancer, kidney cancer, thyroid cancer, and gallbladder cancer. Obesity may also lead to increased cancer-related mortality.\n\nAbout 75-80% of all cancers in the United States are preventable, if risk factors are avoided (also see (Cancer prevention). Obesity appears to be the third most important risk factor for cancer in the United States, just behind tobacco and diet (see Figure). Obesity is the source of about 15% of all preventable cancers.\n\nIn 2018, Chinese researchers performed a systematic review and comprehensive quantitative meta‐analysis of cohort studies reporting body mass index (BMI) and the risk of 23 cancer types, providing epidemiological evidence supporting the association between BMI and cancer risk. The strongest positive association between BMI and cancer risk was found among patients in North America.\n\nThe mechanisms by which obesity may increase the risk of cancer are not well understood, but it is believed that the combined effects of the adipose tissue environment and the endocrine alterations that accompany it among obese people both interact to promote tumor initiation and progression. Adipose tissue also creates an inflammatory environment that enhances the ability of tumor cells to metastatize.\n\nThe U.S National Cancer Institute indicates that one of the main ways in which obesity can cause cancer is by promoting chronic low-level inflammation, which can, over time, cause DNA damage that leads to cancer. Articles supporting this view were reviewed by Cerda et al. There are also a number of hormonal, metabolic and other changes caused by obesity that may affect carcinogenesis. A review by Tahergorabi et al. summarizes articles indicating that obesity induces changes in angiogenesis, inflammation, interaction of proinflammatory cytokines, endocrine hormones, adipokines including leptin and adiponectin, insulin, growth factors, estrogen, progesterone and cell metabolism.\n\nDNA damage appears to be the primary cause of cancer (see Carcinogenesis). It is not clear which factor(s) altered by obesity are major source(s) of the DNA damages causing increased cancer risk in obese individuals. However, both reduced DNA repair and increased DNA damage are observed in obese individuals.\n\nAs first noted in 2005, there is evidence that overweight/obesity is associated with reduced DNA repair capacity. This was shown, in particular, in women with breast cancer.\n\nLymphocytes from postmenopausal obese women also have reduced DNA repair capacity compared to non-obese postmenopausal women.\n\nIf DNA repair is reduced by obesity, this would allow DNA damages to accumulate. Excess DNA damages, when present in replicating cells, can cause an increase in oncogenic mutations through error-prone translesion synthesis during replication.\n\nAn 8-fold and 5.6-fold increase in nuclear damage was observed in lymphocytes of obese and overweight children respectively, compared to children of normal weight, evaluated by the gamma-H2AX focus assay. The gamma-H2AX assay generally reflects the presence of double-strand breaks in DNA, though the assay may indicate other DNA damages as well. Similarly, there was a 2.7-fold and 2.5-fold increase in micronuclei in lymphocytes of obese and overweight children respectively, compared to children of normal weight. Micronuclei are usually a sign of genotoxic events and chromosomal instability (see Micronucleus).\n\n8-dihydro-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-oxodG) concentration in peripheral blood lymphocytes is an index of nuclear DNA damage. 8-oxodG damages are mutagenic. The level of 8-oxodG was measured in 58 overweight and obese adult patients as well as in 20 normal weight individuals. The level of 8-oxodG correlated positively with body mass, BMI, hip circumference and triglyceride concentration.\n\nIn a study by Donmez-Altuntas et al., 83 obese, 21 over-weight and 21 normal-weight subjects were tested. Frequencies of DNA damages as measured by frequencies of micronuclei, nucleoplasmic bridges and nuclear buds were found to be significantly higher in lymphocytes of obese subjects than in normal-weight and over-weight subjects (p<0.01 and p<0.05) respectively.\n\nHofer et al., used the enzyme formamidopyrimidine DNA glycosylase (FPG) and gel electrophoresis to measure levels of DNA damage (oxidized purines). They found two factors that can affect DNA damage in a young healthy population. These were fruit intake (high intake; lower DNA damage) and BMI (high BMI; higher DNA damage).\n\nIn the study by Tafurt-Cardona et al., described above, where they found reduced DNA repair in obese postmenopausal women, they also found increased DNA damages, as measured by frequencies of chromosome aberrations, in the obese postmenopausal women.\n\nObesity is associated with an increased risk of bladder cancer.\n\nObesity has been found to decrease the risk of breast cancer among African and Caucasian women, but increase it among Asian women. Obesity is also associated with decreased survival among women with breast cancer, regardless of whether the cancer is pre- or post-menopausal.\n\nBoth general and central obesity are associated with an increased risk of colorectal cancer (CRC). The relative risk among obese people relative to those of normal weight has been reported to be 1.334. An association between increased BMI and risk of colorectal adenoma has been reported, as has a dose-response relationship between BMI and colorectal adenoma risk. Increased BMI also increases all-cause mortality and mortality from CRC specifically among people diagnosed with CRC.\n\nObesity has been found to protect against lung cancer, especially among those who smoke or have smoked cigarettes.\n\nObesity is a risk factor for renal cell cancer.\n\nObese people are at a higher risk of thyroid cancer than are their normal weight counterparts.\n"}
{"id": "29924237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29924237", "title": "PSA Healthcare", "text": "PSA Healthcare\n\nPSA Healthcare. is a Delaware Corporation headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, that originated as a respiratory therapy company but now provides comprehensive home health care services. PSA provides comprehensive pediatric home health care services through a network of branch offices throughout the United States. \n\n\nIn 2006 PSA Healthcare acquired Melmedica Children's Healthcare and expanded in the midwest. The company was acquired by Portfolio Logic, LLC, an investment firm primarily focused on pediatric healthcare and business in 2007. In 2015, PSA Healthcare was acquired by J.H. Whitney Capital Partners, LLC a leading middle-market private equity firm.\n"}
{"id": "41907959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41907959", "title": "Pasteur Institute of Iran", "text": "Pasteur Institute of Iran\n\nThe Pasteur Institute of Iran (PII) was founded in Tehran, Iran in 1921 under the incentive of Firouz Nosrat-ed-Dowleh III, then minister of Foreign Affairs, and with the help of a land donation from his father Abdol-Hossein Farmanfarma. Its mission is to support advanced research and to provide innovative programs in basic and applied medical sciences, and production of biopharmaceuticals and diagnostic kits with special emphasis on infectious diseases. It meets the specialized and scientific health demands of the local community and tries to establish a link between applied research and industry. Pasteur Institute is a leading regional facility in the development and manufacture of vaccines.\n\nThe institute has a total staff of 1300 in its 28 departments and 5 branches in different cities of Iran, which are active in different areas of medical and pharmaceutical biotechnology. There are about 50 PhDs and 200 M.Sc graduates. It produces 3.5 billion doses of different vaccines.\n\nIn 1952 during a plague epidemic in western area of Iran, Pasteur Institute of Iran founded a health research center in Akanlu, a village located between Zanjan, Kurdistan and Hamadan. As a result of the foundation of this center, the various teams of Pasteur Institute of Iran were able to deal with the control of the plague endemic in there via taken effective strategies. This research center is now called the Research Center for Emerging and Re emerging Infection Diseases. In it, Dr. Marcel Baltazard et al. conducted extensive research on plague and the Akanlu research center established itself as an international reference institution for plague. Since 2013 and in the period of renovation of this the center, the old buildings were renovated and laboratories and new buildings were completed. As of 2015, this center is the national reference center for plague, tularemia and Q fever and has conducted several studies on emerging and reemerging diseases.\n\n\nVideos\n"}
{"id": "19869927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19869927", "title": "Permanent Representative of Syria to the United Nations", "text": "Permanent Representative of Syria to the United Nations\n\nThe Permanent Representative of Syria to the United Nations is Syria's foremost diplomatic representative at the United Nations. \n\nThe Permanent Representatives were the following:\n"}
{"id": "20500234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20500234", "title": "Quebec cider", "text": "Quebec cider\n\nQuebec cider is crafted in the apple-producing regions of Montérégie, Eastern Townships, Chaudière-Appalaches, the Laurentides, Charlevoix and Capitale-Nationale, in Canada. The revival of cider is a relatively new phenomenon, since Quebec's alcohol regulating body, the \"Régie des alcools, des courses et des jeux\" began issuing permits to produce craft cider only in 1988. In 2008, some 40 cider makers were producing more than 100 apple-based alcoholic beverages.\n\nThe honour of planting the first apple tree in the history of Quebec goes to Louis Hébert, apothecary from Paris and New France's first settler. He did so around 1617 on the site where Quebec City was founded in 1608. A good number of the first French settlers to the colony were Normans who brought over the apple cider craft. Sizable orchards developed in the region of New France, particularly on Île d'Orléans.\n\nThe Sulpicians, who settled on the Island of Montreal in 1657, possessed, beginning in 1666, a little orchard inside the fenced garden of the seminary on Notre-Dame Street. A bigger orchard was planted on the side of Mount Royal, in the mid-1670s. On this site, the \"mission de la Montagne\" where Marguerite Bourgeoys had her school, they erected a fort, in 1685, where they were using two cider presses. In 1705, the production of cider was about 30 barrels, and part was sold outside the religious community.\n\nIn 1731, the orchards covered on the Island of Montreal, on the side of the mountain and around town. From 1731 to 1781, the surface area occupied by the orchards rose from . The common cultivars at the time were the Calville blanc, Calville rouge, Famous, Reinette, Bourassa, Pomme blanche, Pomme grise of Montreal and Sauvageon. These cultivars have been supplanted by others since.\n\nThe British Conquest of 1760, confirmed by the cession of 1763, brought along all kinds of changes in the habits of French Canadians. Great Britain's protectionist trade policy, limiting exchanges within the British Empire, favoured the importation of alcohols from England (whisky, gin) and Antilles (rum), and discouraged all the artisanal productions of the inhabitants. Only beer, produced by industrialists from Great Britain (or of British origin), expanded significantly in the 19th century.\n\nOn August 15, 1807, in \"Le Canadien\" of Quebec City, there was an article in which the author deplored that more efforts were not made to encourage the cultivation of apples on Île d'Orléans and to export cider, which he judged \"superior or at least equal to that of Europe and the United States\". He suggested also that the production could serve to diminish the excessive consumption of rum, a \"source of disastrous ruins in a lot of families.\"\n\nThe artisanal production of cider continued until the period of prohibition on alcohol in the middle of the 1910s. In April 1919, a great majority of Quebecers (78.62%) voted yes in a Quebec referendum asking them if \"beer, ciders, and light wines\" should be allowed, as excluded from the list of prohibited alcoholic beverages. However, in 1920, a legislative omission rendered cider illegal in the territory of Quebec. Indeed, the Canadian \"Alcoholic Beverages Act\" which ended prohibition and created the monopoly of the \"Commission des liqueurs du Québec\", did not legislate on cider, which consequently found itself in a judicial void. It was only in 1970, half a century later, that the situation was corrected. During this period, cider continued to be produced by several apple growers, but they were not legally permitted to sell it.\n\nWhen cider became legal again, Quebecers were served a cider produced industrially, which was disliked very much by many and gave it a bad reputation. Makers were unable to supply to the demand and inundated the market with products that had no maturity. A whole generation experienced the Grand Sec d'Orléans, which to many, evoked what is most undrinkable when it comes to alcohol. Sales declined after a few years, and cider, barely gotten out of its \"dark age\", was plunged back into it. From about a year in 1971, the production dropped to per year in 1982. It was only at the end of the 1980s when the first craft production permits were issued by the \"Régie des alcools, des courses et des jeux du Québec\", that Quebec cider was truly reborn, about the same time as beer and wine, for the same reason.\n\nThe ciders crafted by small cider makers then multiplied, often avoiding to use the word \"cidre\" on the bottle to avoid alarming the consumers. The first Quebec ice cider was crafted by Christian Barthomeuf in Dunham in the Eastern Townships during the winter of 1989–1990. The first bottles bear the \"1990\" \"millésime\". Ten years later, cider makers obtained the authorization to name their products \"cidre de glace\" (ice cider). A regulation on cider was finally adopted by the National Assembly of Quebec in November 2008.\n\nQuebec cider makers prepare various types of ciders, which are categorized according to the production method, the percentage of alcohol, the effervescence, or the residual sugar content.\n\nCider is said to be \"light\" when it contains 7% of alcohol or less, \"strong\" when it contains 7% to 13%, and \"apéritif\" when between 13% to 20%. \"Flavoured\" cider, perfumed with aromas of berries, honey or maple, generally contains less than 10% alcohol.\n\nAs it is with wine, cider can be \"still\" (without bubble) or \"sparkling\" (with bubbles).\n\nSparkling apple cider is crafted either by injecting carbon dioxide, in \"closed vats\" using the Charmat process or the traditional \"champenoise\" method. The result is a cider said to be \"semi-sparkling\" when in impregnated naturally with carbon dioxide, under low pressure (less than ), \"carbonated semi-sparkling\" when impregnated artificially with carbon dioxide, also under low pressure. It is \"sparkling\" when impregnated naturally with carbon dioxide under a pressure between and \"carbonated sparkling\", if artificially impregnated with carbon dioxide under of the same pressure of .\n\nApple mistelle is a cider obtained from a must kept fresh, that is unfermented, to which alcohol is added.\n\nIce cider, an innovation from Quebec, is crafted by pressing apples naturally frozen by winter's cold. Similar to the late harvest of grapes, apples picked during winter allow for a must with a high sugar content, when water, turned into ice, is separated from the apples. This step is called the \"cryoconcentration\" of sugar. The final result, after the fermentation of the must, is a liqueur-like and mellow liquid, containing between 9 and 13% of alcohol.\n\nQuebec counts six cider-producing regions, which correspond more or less with its apple-producing regions: the Montérégie, Eastern Townships, Chaudière-Appalaches, the Laurentides, Charlevoix, and Capitale-Nationale.\n\nCultivation of apples is well developed in Quebec, which produces in quantity several cultivars of apples, the McIntosh, Paula Red, Spartan, Cortland, Empire, Vista Bella and Jersey Mac being among the most common.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1061100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1061100", "title": "Renato M. E. Sabbatini", "text": "Renato M. E. Sabbatini\n\nRenato Marcos Endrizzi Sabbatini (born 20 February 1947, Campinas) is a retired professor at the Department of Biomedical Engineering and at the State University of Campinas Institute of Biology. He received a B.Sc. in Biomedical Sciences from Medical School of the University of São Paulo and a doctorate in behavioral neuroscience in 1977, followed by postdoctoral work at the Max Planck Institute of Psychiatry's Primate Behavior Department. He founded the Center for Biomedical Informatics,\nand helped create the Brazilian Society for Health Informatics.\n\nSabbatini received the 1992 Prêmio José Reis de Divulgação Científica award for popular science writing,\nand was named one of Info Exame Magazine's \"50 Champions of Innovation\" for 2007. He is currently president of the Edumed Institute for Education in Medicine and Health, a \"not-for-profit educational, research and development institution.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10896069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10896069", "title": "Saw palmetto extract", "text": "Saw palmetto extract\n\nSaw palmetto extract is an extract of the fruit of the saw palmetto. It is marketed as a treatment for benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), but reviews of clinical trials, including those conducted by the National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine, found it ineffective for this purpose.\n\nSaw palmetto is used in several forms of traditional herbal medicine. American Indians used the fruit for food and to treat a variety of urinary and reproductive system problems. The Mayans drank it as a tonic, and the Seminoles used the berries as an expectorant and antiseptic.\n\nAlthough saw palmetto extract has been claimed to be a herbal remedy for benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), it is an ineffective treatment.\n\nLimited \"in vitro\" and animal model studies have investigated potential for use in the treatment of cancer. However, according to the American Cancer Society, \"available scientific studies do not support claims that saw palmetto can prevent or treat prostate cancer in humans\".\nBeta-sitosterol, a chemical present in saw palmetto extract, is chemically similar to cholesterol. In one trial, high levels of serum sitosterol correlated with increased risk of heart attack. However, a meta-analysis of 17 trials saw no connection between serum sitosterol status and cardiovascular disease.\n\nThe use of saw palmetto extract is not recommended in children under 12 years old because it may affect the metabolism of androgen and estrogen hormones.\n\nSaw palmetto extract should not be used during pregnancy. The effects of saw palmetto extract on androgen and estrogen metabolism can potentially impair fetal genital development. Saw palmetto extract should also be avoided during breastfeeding due to a lack of available information.\n\nIn a case report, a patient taking saw palmetto extract had increased bleeding time during surgery. Bleeding time returned to normal after stopping taking the herb. One clinical trial pre-treated prostate surgery patients with saw palmetto for five weeks prior to the surgery, because there was evidence from earlier literature that such pre-treatment reduced operative bleeding. The trial reported no improvement compared to placebo. As a general rule surgeons should ask patients to discontinue dietary supplements prior to scheduled surgery.\n\nSaw palmetto extract may decrease the effectiveness of estrogen products by reducing estrogen levels in the body via its antiestrogenic effects. It can interfere with the use of birth control pills that contain estrogen as an active ingredient. As a result, it is recommended that an additional form of birth control, such as a condom, be used to prevent pregnancy in patients taking birth control pills with saw palmetto extract. In addition, saw palmetto extract can also interfere with hormone replacement therapy by reducing the effectiveness of estrogen pills. The combination of saw palmetto extract with estrogen products should be used with caution.\n\nWhen used in combination with an anticoagulant or antiplatelet drug, saw palmetto extract can increase the risk of bleeding by enhancing the anticoagulation or antiplatelet effects. Some examples of anticoagulant and antiplatelet drugs include aspirin, clopidogrel, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and warfarin. Therefore, the combination of saw palmetto extract with anticoagulant or antiplatelet drugs should be used with caution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2932665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2932665", "title": "Singapore Cord Blood Bank", "text": "Singapore Cord Blood Bank\n\nThe Singapore Cord Blood Bank (Abbreviation: SCBB) is Singapore’s only public cord blood bank that collects, processes and stores donated umbilical cord blood for use in stem cell transplants. Its cord blood units may be searched for use by qualifying transplant centers around the world.\n\nAs a public cord blood bank, SCBB does not charge cord blood donors for its services. However, as the cord blood is donated altruistically, the donor relinquishes any claims to it after donation. This contrasts with a private cord blood bank where parents pay a fee for the cord blood banking services, but retain ownership over the use of their cord blood.\n\nCord blood is the blood that circulates through the umbilical cord from the foetus to the placenta. After delivery, the placenta is almost always thrown away. Yet this humble umbilical cord has become a life saving and precious commodity, because cord blood is rich in blood stem cells.\n\nBlood stem cells are young or immature cells that can transform into other forms of essential blood cell types (pluripotent), such as red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets. The use of blood stem cells has emerged as a potentially curative option for the treatment of several diseases, including blood cancers (such as leukemia and lymphoma), and severe anaemia (such as myelodysplastic syndrome, thalassemia major and severe aplastic anaemia).\n\nOfficially opened in September 2005 by Health Minister Mr. Khaw Boon Wan, Singapore Cord Blood Bank was established in response to demands from Haematologists and Paediatricians in Singapore.\n\nSingaporean patients who needed stem cell transplants were then facing difficulties in obtaining Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) matched stem cell units because of the relative scarcity of stem cell donors that matched Singapore’s main ethnic profiles i.e. Chinese, Malay and Indian ethnicities. SCBB was conceived as a solution to this problem. Donation of cord blood by Singaporeans would significantly increase the probability of obtaining matched cord blood units for the treatment of Singaporean patients.\n\nHaving joined the WMDA and NMDP network in 2006 and 2007 respectively, SCBB allows patients of Asian descent all over the world to search SCBB's inventory for a matching cord blood unit as well.\n\nThe expressed mission of the SCBB is to provide placental cord blood units of high safety and quality, through the practice of internationally accredited techniques of collection, processing, banking and disposition, in order to support cord blood transplantations and related research in Singapore and around the world.\n\nSCBB is registered in Singapore as a company limited by guarantee. It has a not-for-profit charter and is governed by a non-executive board of directors. Chaired by \"Prof Tan Ser Kiat\" the board's members include \"Mr Gregory Vijayendran, Mr Markham Shaw, Dr Chong Tsung Wen, Dr Mary Rauff and A/Prof Allen Yeoh\".\n\nChief Executive Officer, \"Mrs Tan-Huang Shuo Mei\", leads the management team of SCBB, having taken over the reins from \"Mr Steven J Sobak\" in July 2015. \"Mr Sobak\" helmed as SCBB’s CEO from 2007 to 2015, and \"Dr Fidah Alsagoff\" was SCBB’s founding Executive Director from inception to early 2007. The Medical Director is \"Dr William Hwang\" and the Senior Manager-Operations who takes care of the daily operations is \"Mr Arun Prasath\".\n\nThe laboratory and cryo-storage area of SCBB is located at Basement 1 of the KK Women's and Children's Hospital. SCBB has an administrative office at Novena Specialist Centre.\n\nSCBB currently collects cord blood from three public hospitals, namely KK Women's and Children's Hospital, National University Hospital and Singapore General Hospital, as well as all 7 of the private obstetric hospitals in Singapore, Gleneagles Hospital, Mount Alvernia Hospital, Mount Elizabeth Hospital, Mount Elizabeth Novena Hospital, Parkway East Hospital, Raffles Hospital and Thomson Medical Centre.\n\n"}
{"id": "20727645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20727645", "title": "Somatic fusion", "text": "Somatic fusion\n\nSomatic fusion, also called protoplast fusion, is a type of genetic modification in plants by which two distinct species of plants are fused together to form a new hybrid plant with the characteristics of both, a somatic hybrid. Hybrids have been produced either between different varieties of the same species (e.g. between non-flowering potato plants and flowering potato plants) or between two different species (e.g. between wheat \"Triticum\" and rye \"Secale\" to produce Triticale).\n\nUses of somatic fusion include making potato plants resistant to potato leaf roll disease. Through somatic fusion, the crop potato plant \"Solanum tuberosum\" – the yield of which is severely reduced by a viral disease transmitted on by the aphid vector – is fused with the wild, non-tuber-bearing potato \"Solanum brevidens\", which is resistant to the disease. The resulting hybrid has the chromosomes of both plants and is thus similar to polyploid plants.\nSomatic hybridization was first introduced by Carlson et al. in \"Nicotiana glauca\".\n\nThe somatic fusion process occurs in four steps:\n\nDifferent from the procedure for seed plants describe above, fusion of moss protoplasts can be initiated without electric shock but by the use of polyethylene glycol (PEG). Further, moss protoplasts do not need phytohormones for regeneration, and they do not form a callus. Instead, regenerating moss protoplasts behave like germinating moss spores. Of further note sodium nitrate and calcium ion at high pH can be used, although results are variable depending on the organism.\n\nSomatic cells of different types can be fused to obtain hybrid cells. Hybrid cells are useful in a variety of ways, e.g.,\n\n(i) to study the control of cell division and gene expression,\n\n(ii) to investigate malignant transformations,\n\n(iii) to obtain viral replication,\n\n(iv) for gene or chromosome mapping and for\n\n(v) production of monoclonal antibodies by producing hybridoma (hybrid cells between an immortalised cell and an antibody producing lymphocyte), etc.\n\nChromosome mapping through somatic cell hybridization is essentially based on fusion of human and mouse somatic cells. Generally, human fibrocytes or leucocytes are fused with mouse continuous cell lines.\n\nWhen human and mouse cells (or cells of any two mammalian species or of the same species) are mixed, spontaneous cell fusion occurs at a very low rate (10-6). Cell fusion is enhanced 100 to 1000 times by the addition of ultraviolet inactivated Sendai (parainfluenza) virus or polyethylene glycol (PEG).\n\nThese agents adhere to the plasma membranes of cells and alter their properties in such a way that facilitates their fusion. Fusion of two cells produces a heterokaryon, i.e., a single hybrid cell with two nuclei, one from each of the cells entering fusion. Subsequently, the two nuclei also fuse to yield a hybrid cell with a single nucleus.\n\nA generalized scheme for somatic cell hybridization may be described as follows. Appropriate human and mouse cells are selected and mixed together in the presence of inactivated Sendai virus or PEG to promote cell fusion. After a period of time, the cells (a mixture of man, mouse and 'hybrid' cells) are plated on a selective medium, e.g., HAT medium, which allows the multiplication of hybrid cells only.\n\nSeveral clones (each derived from a single hybrid cell) of the hybrid cells are thus isolated and subjected to both cytogenetic and appropriate biochemical analyses for the detection of enzyme/ protein/trait under investigation. An attempt is now made to correlate the presence and absence of the trait with the presence and absence of a human chromosome in the hybrid clones.\n\nIf there is a perfect correlation between the presence and absence of a human chromosome and that of a trait in the hybrid clones, the gene governing the trait is taken to be located in the concerned chromosome.\n\nThe HAT medium is one of the several selective media used for the selection of hybrid cells. This medium is supplemented with hypoxanthine, aminopterin and thymidine, hence the name HAT medium. Antimetabolite aminopterin blocks the cellular biosynthesis of purines and pyrimidines from simple sugars and amino acids.\n\nHowever, normal human and mouse cells can still multiply as they can utilize hypoxanthine and thymidine present in the medium through a salvage pathway, which ordinarily recycles the purines and pyrimidines produced from degradation of nucleic acids.\n\nHypoxanthine is converted into guanine by the enzyme hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HGPRT), while thymidine is phosphorylated by thymidine kinase (TK); both HGPRT and TK are enzymes of the salvage pathway.\n\nOn a HAT medium, only those cells that have active HGPRT (HGPRT+) and TK (TK+) enzymes can proliferate, while those deficient in these enzymes (HGPRr- and/or TK-) can not divide (since they cannot produce purines and pyrimidines due to the aminopterin present in the HAT medium).\n\nFor using HAT medium as a selective agent, human cells used for fusion must be deficient for either the enzyme HGPRT or TK, while mouse cells must be deficient for the other enzyme of this pair. Thus, one may fuse HGPRT deficient human cells (designated as TK+ HGPRr-) with TK deficient mouse cells (denoted as TK- HGPRT+).\n\nTheir fusion products (hybrid cells) will be TK+ (due to the human gene) and HGPRT+ (due to the mouse gene) and will multiply on the HAT medium, while the man and mouse cells will fail to do so. Experiments with other selective media can be planned in a similar fashion.\n\n\nTable: Reference #5\nNote: The table only lists a few examples, there are many more crosses. The possibilities of this technology are great; however, not all species are easily put into protoplast culture.\n"}
{"id": "46255090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46255090", "title": "Stephanie Moulton Sarkis", "text": "Stephanie Moulton Sarkis\n\nStephanie Moulton Sarkis PhD NCC DCMHS LMHC is a psychotherapist and best-selling author. Based in Tampa, Florida, she is an American Mental Health Counselors Association Diplomate and Clinical Specialist in Child and Adolescent mental health counseling, and a columnist/blogger for \"Psychology Today\" and \"Huffington Post\". In addition to being an expert on ADHD and gaslighting, she treats autism spectrum disorder and anxiety disorders, and writes about their impact on college performance and personal finance. Sarkis's experience with having ADHD herself is profiled in the book \"The Gift of Adult ADD\" by Lara Honos-Webb.\n\nSarkis was born in West Allis, Wisconsin. In 2001, Sarkis was a co-recipient of an American Psychological Association Outstanding Dissertation Award, and the study was subsequently published in the \"Journal of Attention Disorders\". In 2002, she received a PhD in mental health counseling from the University of Florida, and is an American Mental Health Counselors Association Diplomate and Clinical Specialist in Child and Adolescent Counseling. Her professional qualifications include Licensed Mental Health Counselor and National Certified Counselor.\n\nSarkis is the author of the following books:\n\nPublished by Da Capo, an imprint of Hachette Book Group:\n\nPublished by PESI Publishing & Media:\n\nPublished by New Harbinger:\n\n"}
{"id": "36614466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36614466", "title": "Tam Dil", "text": "Tam Dil\n\nṬam Dil is a reservoir lake situated 6 km from Saitual, the nearest town, and 64 km from Aizawl, the capital city of Mizoram, India. In Mizo language, the word \"Ṭam\" is a contraction of \"anṭam\", which means a mustard plant; and \"Dil\" means \"lake\". A new species of frog called \"Leptolalax tamdil\" was described from this lake in 2010.\n\nThe origin and etymology of Ṭam Dil are shrouded in myth. Folklore has it that a married couple had a jhum plot in this small valley surrounded by small steep hills. The man unfortunately died leaving the wife to care for the crops alone. In the middle of the field was a robust mustard plant, conspicuously bigger than any other plants. One night the widow has a visitation by her husband, who informed her to take special care of the giant mustard plant as it was a harbinger of immense blessing. On the wake, she did as told, and the plant thrived very well. As time went, the widow remarried but the new husband objected to any thing reminiscence of the deceased husband, and so he plucked the plant up by the roots and discarded it. The vast hole left in the ground was then soon filled by water (seeping from the plant, according to some versions; from the ground itself, in another version) to become an exquisite lake. Hence the name of Ṭam Dil, for the \"lake of the mustard\".\n\nThe lake is reconstructed as part of building a fishing reservoir by the Fisheries Department, Government of Mizoram. Lake-side resorts are maintained by the Tourism Department.\n\n"}
{"id": "46623225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46623225", "title": "Tany Yao", "text": "Tany Yao\n\nTany Yao (born 1971) is a Canadian politician who was elected in the Alberta general election, 2015 to the Legislative Assembly of Alberta, representing the electoral district of Fort McMurray-Wood Buffalo. In the 2015 election, Yao defeated Progressive Conservative candidate Mike Allen.\n\nIn July 2017, Yao remained the MLA for Fort McMurray-Wood Buffalo under the establishment of The United Conservative Party (UCP). The UCP is a political party which forms the official opposition in Alberta, Canada. It was established in July 2017 as a merger between the Progressive Conservative Association of Alberta and the Wildrose Party.\n\nYao was born in Grand Falls, New Brunswick and moved to Fort McMurray, Alberta in 1977 at the age of six. His father, Joseph Yao, was originally from Cebu in the Philippines and eventually worked as a doctor in Fort McMurray. His mother, Keiko, was a nurse within the community. \n\nYao graduated from Fort McMurray Composite High School in 1989 and enrolled in the EMT program at Portage College in Lac La Biche, Alberta. Ultimately he went on to become a paramedic at NAIT in Edmonton, Alberta. His first full-time job after graduating from NAIT was with the Alberta Central Air Ambulance in Lac La Biche. In 1997, Yao returned to Fort McMurray as a paramedic firefighter. He helped fight the House River Fire in 2002 and was the pump operator on the crew that saved the Abasand Apartment complex. In 2007, Yao was promoted to Assistant Deputy Chief of Operations - EMS for the region of Wood Buffalo.\n\nYao has always been an advocate for his community. However, it wasn't until late 2014 that Yao considered running for office. The Wildrose party was in disarray after leader Danielle Smith and eight other MLAs crossed the floor to the ruling Progressive Conservative Association of Alberta. A leadership election was organized and Yao's long time friend Brian Jean was elected as the official leader of the Wildrose Party. Yao decided to run along side his good friend as a member of the Wildrose party and together represent the electoral districts of Fort McMurray- Wood Buffalo and Fort McMurray- Conklin. \n\nThe 2015 Alberta election was held on May 5, 2015. Yao was elected to represent the electoral district of Fort McMurray- Wood Buffalo, defeating Progressive Conservative candidate Mike Allen. The party retained its standing as Official Opposition in the legislature, growing its caucus from 17 in 2012, and 5 at dissolution, to 21. For the first time in Alberta history, the New Democratic Party formed government, with Rachel Notley becoming Premier. This marked the end of 43 years of government by the Progressive Conservatives.\n\nOn May 18, 2017, the Wildrose and the Progressive Conservatives announced that their two parties had come to a merger agreement and on July 22, 2017 the merger was passed with 95% support from both the PCs and the Wildrose. The merger agreement formed the United Conservative Party, a leadership election occurred on October 28, 2017, in which Jason Kenney was chosen as the leader of the UCP.\n\nYao is now the UCP's official critic on Health and Emergency Response Preparedness. He takes his job seriously, continuously meeting with public and private health institutions, community members and groups, local businesses and the municipal government. The first words he ever spoke in the Alberta Legislature were about his concerns on senior support in the Wood Buffalo Region . Premier Rachel Notley officially named him one of the heroes of the 2016 Fort McMurray wildfire, for his selfless and tireless work helping evacuees. Yao continues to be a strong advocate for the community he grew up in. He used his maiden speech in the Second Session of the 29th Legislature to talk about the beauty of Northern Alberta, choking up at one point when he described the aurora borealis.\n"}
{"id": "12514563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12514563", "title": "Testicular trauma", "text": "Testicular trauma\n\nTesticular trauma is an injury to one or both testicles. Types of injuries include blunt, penetrating and degloving.\n\nBecause the testes are located within the scrotum, which hangs outside of the body, they do not have the protection of muscles and bones. This makes it easier for a testes to be struck, hit, kicked or crushed, which occurs most often during contact sports. Testicles can be protected by wearing athletic cups during sports.\n\nTrauma to the testes can cause severe pain, bruising, swelling, and/or in severe cases even possible infertility. In most cases, the testes—which is spongy—can absorb some impact without serious damage. A rare type of testicular trauma, called testicular rupture, occurs when the testicle receives a direct blow or is squeezed against the hard bones of the pelvis. This injury can cause blood to leak into the scrotum and possibly even infertility and other complications. In severe cases, surgery to repair the rupture—and thus save the testicle—may be necessary.\n\nIn at least one case, testicular trauma was reported as the cause of a patient developing Systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) despite otherwise minor trauma.\n\n"}
{"id": "19530141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19530141", "title": "Toxiferine", "text": "Toxiferine\n\nToxiferine (C-toxiferine I) is a curare toxin. It is a bisindole alkaloid derived from \"Strychnos toxifera\" and a nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist. This alkaloid is the main toxic component of Calabash curare, and one of the most toxic plant alkaloids known to man. The lethal dose (LD) for mice has been determined as 10 - 60 µg/kg by intravenous administration.\nIt is a muscle relaxant that causes paralysis of skeletal muscle, which takes approximately 2 hours to recovery for a moderate dose, and 8 hours of total paralysis with a 20-fold paralytic dose. The paralysis can be antagonized by Neostigmine\n"}
{"id": "50925207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50925207", "title": "Uterine microbiome", "text": "Uterine microbiome\n\nThe uterine microbiome is the commensal, nonpathogenic, bacteria, viruses, yeasts/fungi present in a healthy uterus, amniotic fluid and endometrium and the specific environment which they inhabit. It has been only recently confirmed that the uterus and its tissues are not sterile. Due to improved 16S rRNA gene sequencing techniques, detection of bacteria that are present in low numbers is possible.\nUsing this procedure that allows the detection of bacteria that cannot be cultured outside the body, studies of microbiota present in the uterus are expected to increase.\n\nBacteria, viruses and one genus of yeasts are a normal part of the uterus before and during pregnancy. The uterus has been found to possess its own characteristic microbiome that differs significantly from the vaginal microbiome. Despite its close spatial connection with the vagina, the microbiome of the uterus more closely resembles the commensal bacteria found in the oral cavity. \nIn addition, the immune system is able to differentiate between those bacteria normally found in the uterus and those that are pathogenic. Hormonal changes have an effect on the microbiota of the uterus.\n\nThe organisms listed below have been identified as commensals in the healthy uterus. Some also have the potential for growing to the point of causing disease:\n\nOther taxa can be present, without causing disease or an immune response. Their presence is associated with negative birth outcomes.\n\nProphylactic antibiotics have been injected into the uterus to treat infertility. This has been done before the transfer of embryos with the intent to improve implantation rates. No association exists between successful implantation and antibiotic treatment. Infertility treatments often progress to the point where a microbiological analysis of the uterine microbiota is performed. Preterm birth is associated with certain species of bacteria that are not normally part of the healthy uterine microbiome.\n\nThe immune response becomes more pronounced when bacteria are found that are not commensal.\n\nInvestigations into reproductive-associated microbiomes began around 1885 by Theodor Escherich. He wrote that meconium from the newborn was free of bacteria. There was a general consensus at the time and even recently that the uterus was sterile and this was referred to as the \"sterile womb paradigm.\" Other investigations used sterile diapers for meconium collection. No bacteria were able to be cultured from the samples. Other studies showed that bacteria were detected and were directly proportional to the time between birth and the passage of meconium.\n\nInvestigations into the role of the uterine microbiome in the development of the infant microbiome are ongoing.\n"}
{"id": "2928794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2928794", "title": "White Cane Safety Day", "text": "White Cane Safety Day\n\nWhite Cane Safety Day is a national observance in the United States, celebrated on October 15 of each year since 1964. The date is set aside to celebrate the achievements of people who are blind or visually impaired and the important symbol of blindness and tool of independence, the white cane.\n\nOn October 6, 1964, a joint resolution of the U.S. Congress, , was signed into law as , and codified at . This resolution authorized the President of the United States to proclaim October 15 of each year as \"White Cane Safety Day\".\n\nPresident Lyndon B. Johnson signed the first White Cane Safety Day proclamation within hours of the passage of the joint resolution.\n\nIn 2011, White Cane Safety Day was also named Blind Americans Equality Day by President Barack Obama.\n\n"}
