{"id": "37842204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37842204", "title": "2012–13 Egyptian protests", "text": "2012–13 Egyptian protests\n\nThe 2012–13 Egyptian protests were part of a large scale popular uprising in Egypt against then-President Mohamed Morsi. On 22 November 2012, millions of protesters began protesting against Morsi, after his government announced a temporary constitutional declaration that in effect granted the president unlimited powers. Morsi deemed the decree necessary to protect the elected constituent assembly from a planned dissolution by judges appointed during the Mubarak era.\n\nThe demonstrations were organized by Egyptian opposition organizations and individuals, mainly liberals, leftists, secularists and Christians. The demonstrations resulted in violent clashes between Morsi-supporters and the anti-Morsi protesters, with dozens of deaths and hundreds of injuries. Demonstrators gathered outside the presidential palace, which in turn was surrounded by tanks and armored vehicles of the Republican Guard. The anti-Morsi protesters in Cairo were estimated at 200,000, while over 100,000 supporters of Morsi gathered in Cairo to show support. A number of Morsi's advisers resigned in protest, and many judges spoke out against his actions as well. Resignations were tendered by the director of state broadcasting, Rafik Habib (Christian vice president of the Muslim Brotherhood's Freedom and Justice Party), and Zaghloul el-Balshi (general secretary of the commission overseeing the planned constitutional referendum). Seven members of Morsi's 17-member advisory panel resigned in December 2012.\n\nOn 8 December 2012, Morsi annulled his temporary decree which had expanded his presidential authority and removed judicial review of his decrees, an Islamist official said, but added that the results of the temporary declaration would still stand.\n\nOn 22 December, the Constitution supported by Morsi was approved in a national referendum by 64% of the voters, with 33% of the electorate voting. The opposition claimed fraud in the process and called for an inquiry.\n\nPrior to the anti-government protests in Egypt, Morsi supporters gathered in Rabaa el-Adaweya to celebrate the one-year anniversary of Morsi's inauguration.\n\nHowever, on 30 June 2013, the first anniversary of the election of Morsi, thousands of Morsi opponents massed in Tahrir Square and outside the main presidential palace in the Heliopolis suburb demanding Morsi's resignation. Demonstrations were also reported in 18 locations across Cairo and in other different locations across the country including Alexandria, El-Mahalla and cities in the Suez Canal region. Various political organizations supported the demonstrations, including the Tamarod movement formed by members of the Egyptian Movement for Change, which claimed to have collected 22 million signatures calling for Morsi's resignation.\n\nOn 3 July 2013 the Egyptian Armed Forces released a statement announcing the end of Morsi's presidency, following a 48-hour deadline demanding that Morsi \"responds to the demands of the people.\" In the same statement, the military announced the constitution was suspended for amendments and that new elections would be held at a future date. The chief justice of the constitutional court, Adly Mansour, became head of a transitional government.\n\nIn protest of Morsi's overthrow, his supporters staged large demonstrations in the Nasr City district of Cairo, and in Alexandria, Luxor, Damanhour, and Suez.\n\nIn what the Muslim Brotherhood and its supporters deemed a \"massacre,\" dozens were killed during clashes between Morsi supporters and Egyptian soldiers. In many cases, the Armed Forces denied shooting at demonstrators with live ammunition, contrary to claims by the Brotherhood, its supporters, and several Western media outlets.\n\nOn 22 November 2012, Morsi issued a constitutional declaration purporting to protect the Constituent Assembly of Egypt from judicial interference. The declaration stated that it only applies until a new constitution is ratified. The declaration also requires new trials for people acquitted of Mubarak-era killings of protesters, and extends the mandate of the constituent assembly by two months. Additionally, the declaration authorizes Morsi to take all measures necessary to these ends.\n\nIn effect, the declaration makes all constitutional declarations, laws and decrees made since Morsi assumed power immune to appeal by any individual, political or governmental body. Demonstrations both in support of and opposing Morsi broke out around Egypt after the declaration was made.\n\nOn 8 July, Mohamed Morsi issued a decree calling back into session the dissolved parliament for 10 July 2012. Morsi's decree also called for new parliamentary elections to be held within 60 days of the adoption of a new constitution for the country, which is tentatively expected for late 2012. A constitutional assembly selected by the erstwhile parliament has been formed and has begun the work of drafting the constitution. The Supreme Council of the Armed Forces (SCAF) hold an emergency meeting in response to the decree, but adjourn the meeting without making an announcement.\n\nOn 9 July, Egyptian President Mohammed Morsi's order to reconvene parliament was rejected by Egypt's Supreme Constitutional Court which said after meeting on 9 July 2012 that all its rulings and decisions, including its judgement that part of the election for parliament was unconstitutional and which led in return to the assembly's dissolution by the SCAF, are final, not subject to appeal and binding for all state institutions. With its ruling the court asserted that Morsi had no right to reconvene parliament after the court ordered it dissolved in June 2012. Though the constituent assembly tasked with drawing up Egypt's new constitution is currently functioning, after being selected by the dissolved parliament, the SCAF also gave itself the power to choose a new assembly if the current one runs into any problems according to Al Jazeera. In its 9 July statement the military council said its constitutional declaration which gave it broad powers \"came as a result of the political, legal and constitutional circumstances that the country was facing\" and added that the declaration \"ensures the continuity of state institutions and the [military council] until a new constitution is drafted\". The military said it was \"confident\" that all state institutions will respect constitutional declarations.\n\nOn 10 July, Egypt's parliament convened despite dissolution, but the session was adjourned by Speaker Saad al-Katatni after the members of parliament approved Katatni's proposal that the parliament seek legal advice from the Court of Cassation on how to implement the supreme court's ruling. Thousands gathered in Cairo in protest of a ruling by Egypt's Supreme Constitutional Court to freeze the decree issued by President Mohamed Morsi to reinstate the Islamist-led parliament. While the Supreme Constitutional Court ruled that Morsi did not have the right to reconstitute the body, it also threatened the new president with the equivalent of contempt of court if he continued to reject its decisions. Parliament asked Egypt's Court of Cassation to essentially overrule the aspect of the Supreme Constitutional Court's decision holding that the whole Parliament must be immediately dissolved because of flaws in the electoral system used to fill a third of the seats. The Administrative Court (whose function is the review of executive actions), besides the Supreme Constitutional Court (whose function is the review of statutes) and Court of Cassation (whose function is the handling of appeals of lower court rulings) one of the three highest Courts in Egypt, is also weighing that question and has said it will issue its own ruling on 17 July.\n\nOn 11 July, Egypt's President Mohamed Morsi declared he will seek dialogue with political forces and judicial authorities to resolve the row over the dissolved parliament. He also said that he will respect Egypt's Supreme Constitutional Court ruling that blocked his decision to call the nation's parliament back into session.\n\nOn 14 July, the parliament's request to examine Egypt's Supreme Constitutional Court ruling that dissolved the Islamist-led assembly was rebuffed by the Court of Cassation. Egypt's highest appeals court unanimously ruled on 14 July 2012 it has no jurisdiction over the implementation of the 14 June 2012 constitutional court ruling.\n\nOn 16 July, more than 20000 workers at Egypt's largest textiles manufacturing company, which saw major strikes in 2006 and 2008, began their first day of strikes demanding an increase in wages and more government investment in their sector.\n\nOn 19 July, the Administrative Judiciary Court of the State Council put on hold all appeals against the formulation of the Constituent Assembly, tasked with drafting a new constitution, until the court decides on 30 July 2012 on suits calling for a change of the judge presiding over the case. The court was also looking at a case filed against the supplementary constitutional decree released by the Supreme Council of Armed Forces days before President Mohamed Morsi's inauguration, and another against the president's decision to bring back the People's Assembly, parliament's lower house that SCAF dissolved after the Supreme Constitutional Court ruled the parliamentary elections law unconstitutional. The court ruled lack of jurisdiction on both cases and referred the latter back to the Supreme Constitutional Court. Egyptian president Mohamed Morsi ordered to release 572 people detained by the Egyptian military in the 2011 protests, and reduced the sentence of 16 others from life sentence to seven years in jail.\n\nOn 30 July, the Administrative Judiciary Court of the State Council ruled on 30 July to postpone the case calling for the dissolution of the Constituent Assembly to 24 September, giving the assembly enough time to complete the drafting of Egypt's new constitution.\n\nOn 2 August, the first Cabinet under President Mohamed MorsI headed by Prime Minister Hesham Kandil was sworn in.\n\nOn 5 August 2012 Egyptian–Israeli border attack. Following this event Egypt's President Morsi fired his intelligence chief, the head of the military police, several Interior Ministry officials, the head of the presidential guard and the governor of North Sinai, while the President during a trip to the border region vowed with respect to the victims of the attack. \"We will never, ever rest until we take revenge and bring back justice to those killed.\"\n\nOn 8 August, following the 2012 Egyptian–Israeli border attack Egyptian forces launched aerial strikes on militants in response to a series of attacks by masked gunmen on military checkpoints as part of a broader operation against Islamist militant organizations in the Sinai Peninsula.\n\nOn 12 August, Morsi asked Mohamad Hussein Tantawi, head of the country's armed forces, and Sami Anan, the Army chief of staff, to resign and Morsi assumed legislative powers. Morsi's spokesman, Yasser Ali, announced that both Tantawi and Anan would remain advisers to the president. Tantawi and Anan were kept on as \"special counsels to the president\" with undisclosed roles and were given Egypt's highest state honour, the Grand Collar of the Nile. Morsi named Abdul Fatah al-Sisi, who served as chief of military intelligence until 2014, as Egypt's new defense minister. He also replaced Egypt Chief of Staff Lieutenant General Sami Hafez Anan with General Sedki Sobhi. General Mohamed al-Assar, a member of the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, was named an assistant defense minister. Morsi also pushed out the chiefs of the navy, the air force and the air defense branch of Egypt armed forces. More specifically Vice Admiral Mohab Mamish, Commander of the Egyptian Navy; Lieutenant General Abd El Aziz Seif-Eldeen, Commander of the Egyptian Air Defense Forces; and Air Marshal Reda Mahmoud Hafez, Commander of the Egyptian Air Force were relieved from duty and moved on to civilian roles. Morsi said his decisions had not been intended to humiliate military. \"I never meant to antagonize anyone,\" Morsi said. \"We go on to new horizons, with new generations, with new blood that has long been awaited.\" \"I want the armed forces to devote themselves to a mission that is holy to all of us, which is protecting the nation,\" he said in a televised address. \"The decisions I took today were not meant ever to target certain persons, nor did I intend to embarrass institutions, nor was my aim to narrow freedoms,\" he said. \"I did not mean to send a negative message about anyone, but my aim was the benefit of this nation and its people.\" Morsi also announced that the constitutional amendments passed by the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces (SCAF) that had gutted the authority of his office, and replaced it with his own declaration, one that gave him broad legislative and executive powers and a decisive role in the drafting of Egypt's still unfinished new constitution. In addition Morsi appointed a senior judge and Muslim Brotherhood favorite, Mahmoud Mekki, as his vice president. The new constitutional decree Morsy released is made up of just four articles. Among the powers Morsi assumed are the power to select a new panel to write Egypt's constitution, if the current panel could finish its work, and the full power to author, approve, and promulgate legislation. This marked the \"completion of Egyptian revolution,\" said an unidentified spokesman according to the Jerusalem Post. \"The New York Times\" described the move as an \"upheaval\" and a \"stunning purge\", given the power that SCAF had taken after the fall of Mubarak. Morsi's moves triggered support for and protest against his 12 August decisions, while legal experts questioned legitimacy of Morsi's constitutional changes and conflicting reports emerged from military officials over whether Morsi consulted with the armed forces regarding his decision to retire Tantawi and Anan. Al Jazeera described it as \"escalating the power struggle\" between the president and military.\n\nOn 14 August 2012, Mohamed Salem, an Egyptian lawyer, filed a legal challenge over Morsi's removal of Tantawi and Anan, arguing that Morsi planned to bring back the totalitarian regime.\n\nOn 23 August, Egyptian President Mohamed Morsi issued a new law cancelling the Mubarak-era practice of temporarily detaining journalists for so-called \"publication offences,\" including the charge of \"offending the president of the republic.\" With this law Morsi outlawed the pretrial detention of people accused of press crimes. A Constitutional Declaration issued by Morsi earlier in August 2012 gave the president full legislative powers, which he will command until the election of a new parliament.\n\nOn 8 September, the Administrative Court of the State Council postponed its decision on the constitutionality of Egypt's Constituent Assembly until 2 October 2012.\n\nOn 11 September, a protest was organized by Wesam Abdel-Wareth, a Salafist leader and president of Egypt's Hekma television channel, who called for a gathering at 5 pm in front of the United States Embassy, to protest against a film that he thought was named \"Muhammad's Trial\", which is actually called Innocence of Muslims. After the trailer for the film began circulating, Nader Bakkar, the Egyptian Salafist Nour Party's spokesman, and Muhammad al-Zawahiri, the brother of al-Qaeda leader Ayman al Zawihiri, called for Egyptians to assemble outside of the American embassy. About 3,000 demonstrators, many of them from the ultraconservative Salafist movement, responded to his call. A dozen men were then reported to have scaled the embassy walls, after which one of them tore down the flag of the United States of America and replaced it with a black Islamist flag with the inscription of the \"shahada\": \"There is no god but God and Muhammad is the messenger of God\". Some of the protesters also wrote \"There is no God but Allah\" on the compound walls. According to Sherine Tadros of \"Al Jazeera\", the protestors demanded that the film be taken \"out of circulation\" and that some of the protestors would stay at the site until that happens. Thousands of Egyptian riot police were at the embassy following the breach of the walls; they eventually persuaded the trespassers to leave the compound without the use of force. After that, only a few hundred protesters remained outside the compound. During the entry into the embassy grounds United States Marines were not allowed to carry live ammunition by the State Department. Egypt's prime minister Hesham Kandil said \"a number\" of protesters later confessed to getting paid to participate.\n\nOn 14 September, in the town of Sheikh Zuwayed in the Sinai Peninsula, protesters stormed a compound of the Multinational Force and Observers, designed to monitor the peace treaty between Egypt and Israel. The peacekeeping force opened fire on the protesters. Two members of the peacekeeping force were wounded. Ahmad Fouad Ashoush, a Salafist Muslim cleric, said: \"I issue a fatwa and call on the Muslim youth in America and Europe to do this duty, which is to kill the director, the producer and the actors and everyone who helped and promoted the film.\" Another Muslim cleric, Ahmed Abdullah (aka Abu Islam) tore up the Bible and threw the torn pages on the ground during the 11 September embassy attack.\n\nOn 22 September, Egypt's Supreme Administrative Court upheld an earlier Supreme Constitutional Court ruling, which had ordered the dissolution of the lower house of Egypt's parliament (People's Assembly) based on the unconstitutionality of some of the parliamentary elections law. The administrative court said that since the electoral laws on which the People's Assembly was elected were found to be unconstitutional, the entire composition of the assembly is invalid.\n\nOn 23 September, Egypt's Supreme Administrative Court issued a verdict supporting the right of former members of the now-defunct National Democratic Party (NDP), which was formally disbanded by an administrative court in April 2011, the NDP to run in parliamentary elections.\n\nOn 1 October, Egypt's doctors began a partial strike that lasted for weeks.\n\nOn 2 October, The Administrative Court of the State Council postponed its decision on the constitutionality of Egypt's Constituent Assembly until 9 October 2012.\n\nOn 8 October, Egyptian president Morsi has ordered pardon for all persons who already have convictions and those who are still under investigation or are on trial for deeds \"committed with the aim of supporting the revolution and bringing about its objectives.\" The decree included felonies, misdemeanors committed to support the uprising to achieve its goals from 25 January 2011 until 30 June 2012 except crimes of first degree murder and abides the general prosecutor and the military attorney general, each one in his field to publish a list for those given amnesty in the official newspaper. The persons missed can submit a complaint in a month from the date of publication, and one or more committees will be formed to consider the complaints under the presidency of the head of court of cessation within thirty days of the date of the complaints.\n\nOn 9 October, The Administrative Court of the State Council postponed its decision on the constitutionality of Egypt's Constituent Assembly until 16 October 2012 in order to review more documents.\n\nOn 10 October, Egypt's prosecutor general Abdel-Maguid Mahmoud failed to win a conviction of two dozen Mubarak allies charged with orchestrating an attack by thugs on the protesters who ousted Mubarak. Some of the thugs were mounted, and the resulting melee became known as 2 February 2011 Battle of the Camels where men riding horses and camels charged into crowds on Cairo's Tahrir Square, setting off two days of clashes that ended with killing of nearly a dozen people. Activist groups and political parties called for a nationwide protest on 12 October 2011 after a court acquitted all 24 people charged with involvement in the Battle of Camels.\n\nOn 11 October, despite the fact that Egyptian law protects the prosecutor general from being ousted by the president, President Morsi ordered Egypt's prosecutor general Abdel-Maguid Mahmoud to leave his position to defuse public anger over acquittals in the Battle of the Camels case. Mahmoud, however, refused to step down and become Egypt's ambassador to the Vatican.\n\nOn 12 October, critics and supporters of President Morsi clashed in Cairo's Tahrir Square during a rally, as liberal and secular activists erupted with anger accusing the Muslim Brotherhood of trying to take over the country. The rally sharpened the nation's tensions over its political direction and the failure to bring loyalists of the former government to justice for their actions during Battle of the Camels The clashes erupted between two competing rallies in Tahrir. One was by liberal and secular activists to criticize Morsi's failure to achieve promises he had made for first 100 days in power and to demand greater diversity on the panel tasked with writing Egypt's new constitution, the other had been called by Morsi's Muslim Brotherhood to call for judicial reforms and to support the move by Morsi on 11 October 2012 to remove the prosecutor-general. The secular camp accused the Brotherhood of holding the gathering to \"hijack\" the square from their anti-Morsi protest. The violence erupted when Morsi supporters stormed a stage set up by the rival camp, angered by chants they perceived as insults to the president.\n\nOn 13 October, Morsi backed down on 13 October 2012 from his decision to remove the country's top prosecutor Abdel-Maguid Mahmoud, keeping him in his post and sidestepping a potential clash with the country's powerful judiciary. The two-day standoff between Morsi and Prosecutor General Mahmoud escalated with a backlash from a powerful group of judges who said Morsi's move had infringed upon their authority and on the judiciary's independence. Egypt's Vice President Mahmoud Mekki told reporters after meeting the prosecutor that the president agreed to suspend the decision to make Mahmoud Egypt's ambassador to the Vatican following a request from the country's Supreme Judicial Council. Mekki said the presidency had announced the decision to make Mahmoud Egypt's ambassador to the Vatican after initially understanding that Mahmoud had agreed to step down as Prosecutor General. After meeting Morsi and his advisers, Mahmoud told The Associated Press that \"a misunderstanding\" had been resolved.\n\nOn 16 October, The Administrative Court of the State Council postponed its decision on the constitutionality of Egypt's Constituent Assembly until 23 October 2012.\n\nOn 23 October, Egypt's Supreme Administrative Court referred the law regulating the Constituent Assembly to the Supreme Constitutional Court and hence suspended the hearing of lawsuits that sought the dissolution of the assembly charged with drafting the new constitution. Plaintiffs from 48 lawsuits demanded the dissolution of the Constituent Assembly claiming the Assembly failed to proportionately represent various social sectors, and violated the interim constitution by including MPs as members. More specifically, the Administrative Court referred Law 79/2012, which granted the assembly immunity from dissolution, to the Supreme Constitutional Court, which will rule on the law based on the Constitutional Declaration that has governed the country since the fall of former President Mubarak. The parliament had approved the law on the same day of its formation two days before Parliament was dissolved. However, the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces refused to pass the law. After decreeing the return of the People's Assembly, President Morsy approved the stalled law to prevent the dissolution of the Constituent Assembly. Judge Nazih Tangho of the High Administrative Court referred the case to the Constitutional Court to look into the law that gave the constitutional panel legal immunity, a clause he said needed vetting because no one should be above legal supervision. \"The law was meant to prevent the High Administrative Court from looking into appeals ... against the panel,\" he said. Muslim Brotherhood lawyer Abdel Moneim Abdel Maqsoud stated that the Supreme Constitutional Court needed at least two months to rule on the case, citing the law that obliged it to consider the cases 45 days after its referral.\n\nSometime between 18 and 21 November, secular groups walked out of the constitutional constituent assembly because they believed that it would impose strict Islamic practices, while members of the Muslim Brotherhood supported Morsi and denied such allegations. Protesters battled the police in Cairo's Mohamed Mahmoud Street over the slow pace of change in Egypt, after thousands of protesters had returned to the streets around Tahrir Square demanding political reforms and the prosecution of officials blamed for killing demonstrators as well as to protest against Morsi and the growing influence of the Muslim Brotherhood. The protests held to commemorate four days of street fighting between protesters and security forces in November 2011 had already turned violent on 19 November 2012.\n\nOn 22 November, Morsi issued a constitutional declaration and dismissed with it Egypt's prosecutor general Abdel Maguid Mahmoud who was replaced by Talaat Ibrahim Abdullah. This caused a disagreement amongst Egyptian judges and condemnation from various organizations. His decree was called \"an unprecedented attack on judicial independence\" by the Supreme Council of the Judiciary. Morsi said that the decree was made to prevent the courts from dissolving the Constitutional Assembly. Three protests were held outside the court building. Mohamed ElBaradei, a former UN diplomat, called for withdrawal of the decree. While the declaration was immediately criticized by Morsi opponents, his supporters defended Morsi's move. Morsi's declaration contained the following:\n\nOn 23 November, protests erupted in Cairo, the port city of Alexandria and elsewhere around Egypt, as opponents of Morsi clashed with his supporters over his 22 November declaration. Protesters torched the offices of Egypt's ruling Islamist party, the Muslim Brotherhood's Freedom and Justice Party, in Suez, Alexandria and other cities. Essam el-Erian, a leading figure of Morsi's FJP, condemned attacks on party property. Media organizations noted that the events showed Egypt was a divided country. Morsi defended amid the protests before his supporters his declaration stating that he was working to secure a strong and stable nation and leading Egypt on a path to \"freedom and democracy\".\n\nOn 24 November, the Supreme Judicial Council lambasted the president's constitutional declaration and called it an \"unprecedented attack on the independence of the judicial branch\". The leadership of the Egypt Judges Club, an association of judges from across the country, called for a nationwide strike in all courts and prosecution offices to protest the president's declaration. State news media reported that judges and prosecutors had already declared a strike in Alexandria. MENA news agency reported that Egyptian human rights agencies filed a lawsuit at the Court of Administrative Justice calling for the declaration to be annulled. There were also clashes in Cairo between protesters and security forces, between opponents and supporters of the government.\n\nOn 25 November, shares on Egypt's stock market plunged almost 10%. Trading was suspended for 30 minutes as shares slumped in the first session since the president's 22 November constitutional declaration. The Muslim Brotherhood had called for nationwide protests on 25 November in support of Morsi's declaration. Judges in two of the country's 27 provinces, including Alexandria, heeded the call to strike while those elsewhere in the country were meeting to decide their response. After a meeting with Egypt's justice minister Ahmed Mekki urged judges not to disrupt their work by joining in a proposed strike over the decree. But the council also urged the president to scale back his writ, to limit the immunity from judicial review he decreed for \"laws and decisions issued by the president as sovereignty acts\", a reference to Egyptian legal precedents that could justify such executive action in certain circumstances. The Muslim Brotherhood's party offices in Damanhour, Alexandria, Mansoura, Suez and Cairo were ransacked and damaged in the wake of the 22 November constitutional declaration. Five hundred people were injured in clashes with the police, and 15-year-old Islam Fathi Masoud died after being hit on the head with a club wielded by one of dozens of men who attacked the MB's offices in the northern city of Damanhour. The \"Al-Ahram\" state newspaper said that three women were victims of sexual assault during an anti-Morsi demonstration. Egypt state news media reported that Morsi advisers who had resigned over the decree included Samir Morqos, one of the few Christians in the administration; Sekina Fouad, one of the few women, and Farouk Guweida, a poet and intellectual.\n\nOn 26 November, The Court of Administrative Justice said it would hold a first hearing on 4 December in a case brought by lawyers and activists against the declaration. Morsi met with representatives of the Supreme Judicial Council in an effort to settle the crisis over the extent of his powers following his 22 November constitutional declaration. He agreed to limit his decree on his decisions related to \"sovereign matters\" only. Morsy \"did not give himself judicial power\" but did provide \"immunity for his presidential decisions,\" said Jihad Haddad, a senior adviser in the Freedom and Justice Party. Haddad added that \"the president himself (is) not immune from judicial oversight,\" though it wasn't clear in what circumstances that might apply, or if there was anything preventing Morsi from issuing a new decree to forestall that. According to Al-Jazeera \"sovereign matters\" were widely interpreted to cover the declaration of war, imposition of martial law, breaking diplomatic relations with a foreign nation, or dismissing the cabinet. Activists on Monday camped in Cairo's Tahrir Square for a fourth day, blocking traffic with makeshift barricades to protest against what they said was a power-grab by Morsi. Nearby, riot police and protesters clashed intermittently. In addition to popular outbursts on the street, Egypt's judges reacted. All but seven of Egypt's 34 courts and 90% of its prosecutors went on strike Monday in protest, according to Judge Mohamed al-Zind of the Egyptian Judge's Club. Muslim Brotherhood supporters staged a counter-demonstration, while they were relocated from central Cairo to a location in front of Cairo University in Giza. Egypt's stock market, which had seen a fall of almost 10% on 25 November 2012, recovered some ground on Monday morning. Islam Fathy Massoud member of the Muslim Brotherhood was killed during protests in Damanhour. Gaber Salah, a member of the April 6 Youth Movement, was pronounced dead. He had received a rubber bullet shot at close range during clashes with riot police in downtown Cairo. The funeral of Islam Fathy Massoud, who died in the Nile Delta town of Damanhour in a clash between the president's supporters and opponents, was held on Monday, while in Cairo thousands of people marched through Tahrir Square for the funeral of Gaber Salah.\n\nOn 27 November, tens of thousands of people held protests in Cairo against Morsi demanding that their first freely elected leader respect their wishes either to roll back his 22 November constitutional declaration or to resign. At least one demonstrator died in early clashes with authorities before Tuesday night's massive rally. The opposition Popular Alliance Party said the protester died after inhaling excessive amounts of tear gas, which police used in numerous scuffles with rock-throwing protesters on the side streets leading to the square. And in the Nile Delta city of Mahalla, police reported dozens of injuries when demonstrators stormed and destroyed the headquarters of the Muslim Brotherhood. Protests were also held in Alexandria and other cities. FJP offices in Alexandria and Mansoura were stormed, with the latter set ablaze. The Muslim Brotherhood scrapped its own demonstration to show support for Morsi – also scheduled for 27 November 2012 – \"to avoid any problems due to tension in the political arena,\" according to spokesman Mahmoud Ghozlan.\n\nOn 28 November, in an interview with \"TIME magazine\" Morsi said of his 22 November constitutional declaration: \"If we had a constitution, then all of what I have said or done last week, will stop. ... when we have a constitution, what I have issued will stop immediately. ... \" The Constituent Assembly of Egypt rushed to finish its work amid widespread protests against Morsi and his declaration. The rush toward a new constitution spurred a walkout among its drafters, i.e. liberals, human rights activists, and others who were unsatisfied with a range of provisions dealing with the role of religion in the state, the status of women, and the privileges accorded to the country's army. According to the BBC's Jon Leybe the move was designed to preempt a ruling by Egypt's Supreme Constitutional Court on 2 December, which might once again dissolve the assembly. The Brotherhood hoped that the decree replaced by a completely new constitution would be approved on a referendum and put an end to the unrest. Low-level rallies continued in Cairo's Tahrir Square on Wednesday. Dozens of police officers, backed by trucks firing tear gas, arrested numerous protesters, some of whom were beaten by officers as others continued to throw stones at police. The Brotherhood organized counter-demonstrations, including one in Egypt's second city, Alexandria, which attracted a few thousand participants. As protests mounted over Morsi's decision to grant himself sweeping powers until the text of the constitution was ratified in a referendum, the panel tasked with writing the constitution wrapped up its deliberations on Wednesday and readied for a vote on Thursday. By 28 November two more people were killed and hundreds more injured. Egypt Independent reported that one of the dead was Fathy Ghareeb, a founder of the Socialist Popular Alliance Party, who died by suffocation caused by the tear gas fired by the Central Security Forces (CSF) in Tahrir Square. Egypt's Court of Cassation, the country's highest appeals court, the Cairo Appeals Court, and other appeals courts suspended their work until Morsi's decree is rescinded.\n\nOn 29 November, voting on the new constitution by the Constituent Assembly of Egypt began, and continued through Thursday night. There were protests against Morsi outside the presidential palace and a small protest supporting Morsi in Giza on the outskirts of Cairo. The new constitution adopted the first part of the draft that included the Sharia as the main source of legislation and making Islam a state religion. Egyptian State TV reported that Christianity and Judaism would be the main source for legislation for Christians and Jews. The liberals, left-wing, and Christians boycotted the assembly and accused the Islamists of trying to impose their vision; they also accused them of trying to limit freedom of speech as well as not including articles establishing equality between men and women.\n\nOn 30 November, racing against the threat of dissolution by Supreme Constitutional Court judges appointed by the ousted Mubarak, quickly defusing anger about Morsi's 22 November declaration granting himself expanded presidential powers and ignoring howls of protest from secular opponents, the Islamists drafting the new constitution voted on 29 November 2012 to approve the 2012 Draft Constitution of Egypt that human rights groups and international experts said was full of holes and ambiguities and that was criticized by secular, liberal and Coptic Egyptians. Thousands of Egyptians took to the streets in various governorates to denounce the constitutional declaration issued on 22 November, as well as the final draft of the constitution approved by the Islamist-dominated Constituent Assembly.\n\nOn 1 December, Morsi announced that a constitutional referendum on the 2012 Draft Constitution of Egypt would be held on 15 December 2012. Islamist backers of Morsi held mass rallies at Cairo University and other cities to support his sweeping new powers and the drafting of a constitution, while several thousand of Morsi's opponents rallied in Tahrir Square to oppose the draft constitution and what they describe as Morsi's power grab. Also on the 1st, the director of the Nadeem Centre for Human Rights said that the Egyptian government paid people to beat protesters and sexually assault women; this accusation has also been made against the Muslim Brotherhood.\n\nOn 2 December, the Supreme Constitutional Court put off its much-awaited ruling on the legitimacy of the constituent assembly that passed the draft constitution, and on a separate but related decision about whether to dissolve the Shura Council, Egypt's upper house of parliament. It has said it is halting all work indefinitely in protest at the \"psychological pressure\" it has faced, after Islamist protesters earlier prevented the judges from meeting in Cairo. Anti-Morsi protesters continued to occupy Tahrir Square. Leaders of the Judges Club, a powerful but unofficial body which represents judges across the country, announced that its members would refuse to perform their customary roles as election supervisors and would thus try to block a referendum on the new constitution scheduled for 15 December.\n\nOn 3 December the Supreme Judicial Council, has said that judges and prosecutors would supervise the constitutional referendum to be held on 15 December despite the Judges Club strike announcement from 2 December. In addition seven cases against Morsi's call for the referendum were filed in an administrative court\nOn 4 December, police fought the demonstrators in front of the Presidential Palace in Cairo. Demonstrators proclaimed a march to the Presidential Palace, calling it \"the last warning.\" The demonstrators cut through a barbed-wire barrier near the Palace, after which police fired tear gas at them as Morsi fled. More violence broke out at the headquarters of the Freedom and Justice Party in Menia, south of Cairo, where the front of the party headquarters was damaged. \"Egypt Independent\", the English-language sister publication of the country's largest independent daily, \"Al Masry Al Youm\", and 10 others did not publish to protest limits on the draft constitution's protections for freedom of expression and freedom of the press. Prosecutor General Talaat Ibrahim Abdallah filed a complaint charging former presidential candidates Moussa and Sabbahi, as well as El-Baradei, Wafd Party president El-Sayyid el-Badawi, and Judges Club head Ahmed al-Zend with espionage and inciting to overthrow the government. The lawyer who filed the report, Hamed Sadeq, claimed that Moussa met with former Israeli Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni and agreed with her to fabricate a crisis. It was further alleged that all of politicians named in the complaint met at the Wafd Party headquarters to execute the \"Zionist plot.\"\n\nOn 5 December 100,000 people were estimated to have protested at the Presidential Palace and at Tahrir Square against Morsi's constitution, asserting it represented an effort to seize control of the judiciary. Many began demanding the \"fall of the regime\" as they fought running battles with police who deployed tear gas before retreating from the area, outnumbered by protesters. Supporters of the Muslim Brotherhood attacked 300 of Morsi's opponents during a sit-in. Members of the Egyptian Popular Current Mohamed Essam and Karam Gergis were killed in the clashes surrounding Heliopolis Palace between protestors against the new Constitution and Muslim Brotherhood members, which attacked the demonstrators with molotov cocktails. The Health Ministry reported four were killed and 271 were injured. Masked men set fire to Muslim Brotherhood offices in Suez, Ismailia and Zagazig.\n\nOn 6 December, supporters of Morsi and the Muslim Brotherhood held counter protests the next day at the Presidential Palace, and clashed with anti-Morsi protesters in street battles that saw seven people killed and more than 650 injured. Morsi met with Abdul Fatah al-Sisi, chief of the Egyptian Army, and with his cabinet ministers, to discuss a \"means to deal with the situation on different political, security, and legal levels to stabilize Egypt and protect the gains of the revolution.\" Soldiers backed by tanks moved in to restore order as the death toll began to rise. While addressing the nation, Morsi criticized the opposition \"for trying to incite violence\" against his legitimacy. During his speech he invited his opponents to a common dialogue, but they rejected it because Morsi remained determined to press forward with the referendum on the Islamist-backed draft constitution that has plunged Egypt into a political crisis. Meanwhile, the government imposed a curfew after the military sent tanks and armored vehicles into Cairo. Morsi's family was forced to evacuate their home in Zagazig, 47 miles (76 km) northeast of Cairo. Four of Morsi's advisers resigned their posts in protest against the violence, which they claimed was orchestrated by the Muslim Brotherhood supporters.\n\nOn 7 December, Morsi supporters and anti-Morsi demonstrators continued their protests in different cities including Cairo, Alexandria, and Assiut. Demonstrators in Assiut chanted \"No Brotherhood, no Salafis, Egypt is a civic state.\" Dozens of protesters threw rocks and glass bottles at Morsi's home in Sharkia province and tried to push aside a police barrier. Advisers and Brotherhood leaders acknowledged that outside his core base of Islamist supporters Morsi felt increasingly isolated in the political arena and even within his own government. Opposition leaders said in a statement that Morsi's 6 December dialogue offer failed to meet \"the principles of real and serious negotiations\" and displayed \"the complete disregard\" for the opposition's demands. They said they would not negotiate with Morsi until he cancels his 22 November decree and calls off the 15 December referendum on the draft constitution. Opposition protesters marched on the presidential palace and breached a security perimeter built by the military's elite Republican Guard – charged with protecting the palace – which withdrew behind the palace walls. The Egyptian newspaper \"Al-Masry Al-Youm\" also reported that individuals suspected of protesting against the Muslim Brotherhood were being tortured and beaten in a facility run by the Brotherhood in Heliopolis, a Cairo suburb.\n\nOn 8 December, The Egyptian Army issued its first statement since the protests erupted, stating that it would protect public institutions and innocent people and not allow the events to become more serious. The Qandil Cabinet also authorized the army to help Egypt's police maintain security. Egypt state news media reported that Morsi was moving toward imposing a form of martial law to secure the streets and allow the vote on the draft charter constitutional referendum. Morsi annulled his decree which had expanded his presidential authority and removed judicial review of his decrees. In addition the mostly annulled November 2012 constitutional declaration would be replaced by a modified one.\n\nOn 9 December, confusion and disarray pervaded the ranks of Egypt's opposition after Morsi rescinded his 22 November constitutional declaration a day earlier. Despite the declaration's annulment the general prosecutor, who was dismissed, will not be reinstated, and the retrial of the former regime officials will go ahead. Opposition leaders also called for more protests after Morsi refused to cancel the constitutional referendum in the wake of the declaration's annulment. In response, the Alliance of Islamist Forces, an umbrella group that includes Morsi's Muslim Brotherhood, said it would hold rival demonstrations. The group said its rallies would support of the referendum and the president under the slogan \"Yes to legitimacy\".\n\nOn 10 December, the opposition group, the National Salvation Front, announced that it would organize a rally on 11 December.\n\nOn the second anniversary of the beginning of the 2011 revolution, protests again erupted in cities across the country, following occasional skirmishes between protesters and police in Cairo the day before. Tens of thousands of people gathered in Tahrir Square during the day, with clashes between police forces and protesters occurring around the city at the Interior Ministry headquarters, state media offices and the presidential palace. Security forces fired tear gas at protesters trying to force their way into the presidential palace and state television offices. In the city of Suez, five people were killed by gunfire – four protesters and one security trooper. Protests also took place in Alexandria, Ismailia, Damanhur, and Port Said, many of which were focused on local government buildings. Tear gas use by police was reported in Alexandria, while protesters in that city and Suez burned tires. By the end of 25 January, about 280 protesters and 55 security personnel had been injured across the country.\n\nOn 26 January, the sentencing to death of 21 people for their roles in the Port Said Stadium disaster sparked further unrest in Port Said that resulted in 16 fatalities. The number of people killed in the city was 33. Many of them were killed by police snipers.\n\nOn 27 January, Egypt's government was reported to have lost control of Port Said as a result of the protests and attacks. The same day seven more people died from gun shots in the clashes during the funerals for 33 people who had been killed on 26 January in the city. There were also deadly clashes in Suez and Ismailia. As a result, Morsi announced a state of emergency in Suez Canal cities (namely Ismailia, Port Said and Suez) for 30 days, with a curfew from 9:00 p.m to 6:00 a.m, effective Monday, 28 January m. Morsi also invited eleven political parties, as well as four major political leaders, to talks concerning the unrest, but the leading opposition party, the National Salvation Front, refused to begin discussions until a new government was put in place and the country's constitution modified.\n\nOn 28 January, further demonstrations and clashes took place in eleven cities, including those in the Suez Canal, Alexandria, Monufia and Cairo. The clashes resulted in six deaths. Thousands of people gathered in the Tahrir Square to show their solidarity with those killed over the weekend early in the day. Police fired tear gas at protesters near the Qasr al-Nil Bridge, while further violence spread along the Nile. Protesters also set fire to security vehicles and detained a police officer. The Shura Council approved the President state of emergency decision as per the Constitution requirement. And to aid the police, it approved a law granting judicial seizure powers to the Army. A funeral procession Port Said devolved into a street battle between mourners and police, with security troops firing tear gas and live ammunition at crowds from police buildings across the city; protesters threw rocks, explosives and gas canisters back at police, and by the end of the day civilians across the city were seen carrying guns. A Ministry of the Interior spokesman, however, denied that police had fired on protesters, and said that tear gas had been used only briefly. By the end of the day, a total of 50 people were estimated to have died since the January protests began.\n\nOn 29 January, Egypt's defense minister Abdul Fatah al-Sisi warned both pro- and anti-Morsi groups, arguing \"their disagreement on running the affairs of the country may lead to the collapse of the state and threatens the future of the coming generations.\"\n\nOn 30 January, two protesters were shot dead by unknown assailants in Cairo, near Tahrir square.\n\nOn 1 February, protesters gathered in front of the presidential residence in Cairo and clashed with riot police officers. President Morsi blamed police officers due to clashes. One protestor was shot and killed next to Ettehadiya Palace, and ninety one were injured around the country according to the official sources. One of the wounded protestors who had been hit by birdshot died on 3 February.\n\nThe \"Egypt Independent\" reported that police forces dragged a protester, stripped him naked, beat him up with batons, and took him to a security truck. The incident sparked criticism against the administration of Morsi for tolerating the security force's excessive use of force. The presidency said it \"was pained by the shocking footage of some policemen treating a protester in a manner that does not accord with human dignity and human rights.\" State television reported that the 48-year-old beaten man, from a police hospital and without a lawyer present, said that the police had in fact saved him from thieving protesters. The man's daughter, who says she was present at the scene of the attack, said that her father is simply \"afraid to talk\", while his nephew said \"he is lying because there is a lot of pressure on him.\" In new twist, Hamada Saber finally retracted his earlier testimony: \"I told [prosecutors] today that [police] shot me in the leg, beat me and dragged me,\" he said. \"When I resisted, they tore off my shirt. After I resisted some more, they tore off my pants and underpants. They kept telling me to stand up and I kept telling them I was injured\". \"Now my family has disowned me; my wife and kids won't talk to me. The whole country is angry at me for [giving false testimony],\" Saber added.\n\nEgypt's interior minister, Mohamed Ibrahim, said he would leave if it was in the wishes of the people. Minister of Culture Mohamed Arab resigned from his post in protest of the police assault on protestors, being the third Culture Minister to resign from office since the beginning of the 2011 Egyptian uprising.\n\nOn 4 February, Mohamed el-Gendy, a member of the Popular Current tortured by the police following his arrest at Tahrir Square on 27 January, died in the Helal hospital due to his?injuries.\n\nOn 11 February, the second anniversary of the former president Mobarak's ouster, people gathered outside the presidential palace, protesting Morsi.\n\nOn 3 March, clashes erupted in Port Said when police fired teargas at demonstrators opposed to the Interior Ministry decision to transfer 39 detainees from Port Said to the Wadi Natroun Prison, in the Beheira governorate. The clashes took the lives of five peoples, including two policemen and three civilians. News outlets reported that police forces and army troops exchange fire, what was denied by the Egyptian armed forces official spokesperson. Over 500 persons were injured only in Port Said that day, with 39 with bullet wounds.\n\nOn 5 March, protestor Mohamed Hamed Farouk died from head wounds caused by gas canisters fired by police during protests in Port Said.\n\nOn 9 March, three protesters died (one of them an eight-year-old boy) in clashes between demonstrators and police at Qasr al-Nil Bridge, near Tahrir Square. In addition, the headquarters of the Ittihad El-Shorta (the Egyptian National Police football club) and the Egyptian Football Association were torched.\n\nOn 30 March, an arrest warrant was issued for Bassem Youssef, host of the satirical news program \"El Bernameg\", for allegedly insulting Islam and Morsi. The move was seen by opponents as part of an effort to silence dissent against Morsi's government. Youssef confirmed the arrest warrant on his Twitter account and said he would hand himself in to the prosecutor's office, jokingly adding, \"Unless they kindly send a police van today and save me the transportation hassle.\" The following day, he was questioned by authorities before being released on bail of 15,000 Egyptian pounds. The event sparked international media attention as well as a segment on Jon Stewart's \"The Daily Show\" in which he declared his support for Youssef, calling him a \"friend\" and \"brother\" and saying to Morsi: \"What are you worried about? You're the President of Egypt! You have an army! Youssef's got puns and a show; you've got tanks and planes.\"\n\nIn April 2013, protesters fled to Tahrir Square after riot police chased them off with tear gas and pepper spray.\n\nDuring Morsis's last days and after the ouster of his regime, the Sinai Peninsula witnessed an ongoing insurgency with several attacks perpetrated by Islamist militants mainly in the North Sinai governorate. Hamas, the Muslim Brotherhood's biggest ally outside of Egypt, is being widely blamed by Egyptians for the attacks in the region although no solid evidence proves it. The reason for Hamas being blamed was the increasing activity in the smuggling tunnels from the Gaza Strip. A case that received wide controversy was the possible involvement of Hamas in the orchestrated attacks on prisons throughout the country on the night of 28 January during the 2011 uprising against Mubarak. In the prison breaks, more than 30 leaders of the Muslim Brotherhood who were imprisoned by Mubarak in the outbreak of revolution, escaped including Mohamed Morsi himself.\n\nOn 16 May, seven Egyptian soldiers were kidnapped by unknown militants in the Sinai demanding the release of members of an Islamist group detained for almost two years. One week later, they were reportedly released and handed over to the army in an area south of Rafah after talks mediated by tribal chiefs in the region with president Morsi greeting them upon their arrival at Cairo's airport. The real issue though is Morsi's way of dealing with the crisis with most actions taken by the government to solve the problem receiving wide criticism. Such reactions include Morsi's call for a national dialogue instead of either fighting or negotiating with the kidnappers and for also appearing as being concerned for the safety of the kidnapped soldiers and their kidnappers equally.\n\nMohamed Sayed Abu-Shaqra, a security officer, was assassinated more than a week later by suspected jihadists near El-Arish while investigating the identity of the kidnappers and their location. During his funeral, relatives and colleagues started chanting against the president forcing the Interior minister to leave the military ceremony.\n\nOn 17 June, Morsi appointed Adel el-Khayat, an Islamist possibly linked to the Luxor massacre where at least 58 tourists were brutally killed by al-Gama'a al-Islamiyya gunmen, as governor of Luxor with 17 other provincial governors. The move sparked protests by tourism workers and activists in Luxor outside el-Khayat's office forcing him to finally resign a week later in order to prevent bloodshed.\n\nOn 23 June, four Shia Muslims were attacked by an angry mob led by Salafist preachers. The attackers numbering at least several hundred surrounded the house and demanded Hassan Shehata, a local Shia leader, and his followers who were attending a worshiping ceremony to leave the house before storming it with molotov cocktails. Images showed the attackers beating them to death, lynching and later dragging them through the streets. The tragedy came only a few days after a conference in support of the Syrian uprising that was attended by Morsi and leading Islamist figures. During the conference, Sheikh Mohamed Hassan and al-Gama'a al-Islamiyya's Mohamed Abdel-Maqsoud used sectarian speech against the Shias. Morsi was present during the event so he was heavily criticized by the media for not reacting against the hate and sectarianism used by both clerics.\n\nOn 26 June, Morsi delivered a two-hour-and-forty-minute speech to the nation. It was supposed to be a re-conciliatory speech but was widely viewed as provocative and full of threats and accusations targeted against his opponents including media presenters and Ahmed Shafik, his former rival in the 2012 Egyptian presidential elections. He used questionable statistics to describe accomplishments made by his administration in tourism and unemployment. After the speech the opposition stated that it is even more determined to take to the streets on the planned 30 June uprising against the president.\n\nOn 28 June, three individuals were killed during clashes between pro- and anti-Morsi protesters in the city of Alexandria, including 21-year-old Andrew Pochter, an American student who was reportedly stabbed to death as he observed the demonstrations.\nOn 29 June 2013, thousands of Egyptians converged on Tahrir Square in Cairo to demonstrate against the Egyptian President Mohamed Morsi, demanding his resignation from office. The demonstrators used the slogan \"the people demand the ouster of the regime\", used in the protests that led to the ouster of Mubarak in the 2011 revolution.\nBy 30 June, thousands of protestors surrounded the presidential palace in the Heliopolis suburb. Demonstrations were reported to be in progress in 18 locations across Cairo and in other different locations across the country including Alexandria, El-Mahalla and cities of the Suez Canal. The demonstrations are described as being backed by multiple entities, including the Tamarod movement formed by members of the Egyptian Movement for Change in April 2013 that claims to have collected 22 million signatures calling for President Morsi's resignation. Opponents of Morsy claimed Google Earth had published figures suggesting 33 million demonstrators were on the streets. Responding to the claims that it recorded 33 million protesters in Tahrir Square, Google confirmed that its engines do not have the ability to estimate numbers of rallies or protests on the ground. Furthermore, it insisted that it does not publish live imaging of protests or any other events on planet earth. Although sources estimate as many as 14 million people roamed the streets of the country, which means about one of every six people of the nation of 84 million took part in Sunday's demonstrations in sweltering heat. Later, pro-Morsi Qatari based Aljazeera News Channel also broadcast a documentary suggesting through calculations and experts analysis that the number of those who protested against Morsi in Cairo couldn't have exceeded 800,000 in Cairo and 4 Millions across Egypt, despite the pro-Morsi Aljazeera channel claiming two years before that Tahrir Square alone had more than one million and up to 2 million people during the 25 January revolution.\n\nConcurrently with these anti-Morsi demonstrations, supporters of Morsi held demonstrations mainly in Rabaa Square in Cairo. The number of pro-Morsi counter-protesters has been estimated to be about 100,000 people on 21 June (though it's not clear whether as many were on the streets in the period between 30 June and 3 July).\n\nOn the morning of 1 July, anti-Morsi protesters ransacked the national headquarters of the Muslim Brotherhood in Cairo. Protesters threw objects at windows and looted the building, making off with office equipment and documents. The health ministry confirmed the deaths of eight people who had been killed in clashes around the headquarters in Mokattam.\n\nHours later, the Egyptian Armed Forces issued a 48-hour ultimatum which gave the country's political parties until 3 July to meet the demands of the Egyptian people. The military also threatened to intervene if the dispute is not resolved by then. Four Ministers also resigned on the same day: Tourism Minister Hisham Zazou (who previously offered to resign a few months ago after Morsi appointed an Islamist linked to the group that attacked tourists as governor of Luxor), Communication and IT Minister Atef Helmi, State Minister for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs Hatem Bagato and State Minister for Environmental Affairs Khaled Abdel Aal, leaving the government with members of the Freedom and Justice Party.\n\nOn 2 July Foreign Minister Mohamed Kamel Amr resigned as well in support of the anti-government protesters. The presidency rejected the Egyptian Army's 48-hour ultimatum vowing that the president is sticking with his own plans for national reconciliation to resolve the political crisis. Defense Minister General Abdul Fatah al-Sisi was also said to have told Morsi that he would impose a military solution if a political one could not be found by the next day.\n\nIncidentally the Court of Cassation ordered the reinstatement of former general prosecutor Abdel Maguid Mahmoud who was replaced with Talaat Abdallah following the constitutional declaration on 22 November 2012. The Presidency spokesman and the spokesman for the cabinet resigned as well.\n\nThe newspaper \"Al-Ahram\" reported that if there was no resolution the military would suspend the constitution of Egypt and appoint a new council of experts to draft a new one, institute a three-person executive council and appoint a prime minister from the military. Morsi's military advisor, Sami Hafez Anan, also resigned and said that the army would not \"abandon the will of the people.\"\n\nMorsi declared, in a late-night television address, that he would \"defend the legitimacy of his elected office with his life\". He added that \"there is no substitute for legitimacy\" as he vowed not to resign. Morsi accused supporters of Hosni Mubarak of exploiting the wave of protests to topple the government and fight democracy. SCAF leaders also issued a statement entitled \"The Final Hours\" in which they said that the military is willing to shed its blood \"to protect the people against terrorists and fools\" following Morsi's refusal to step down from his elected office.\n\nOn 3 July, unknown gunmen opened fire on a pro-Morsi rally in Cairo, killing 16 and wounding 200. As the 16:35 deadline set by the army approached, military leaders met for emergency talks with the army expected to issue a statement when the deadline passes. Mohamed El-Baradei, who was chosen to represent the National Salvation Front, was also said to have met army chief General Abdul Fatah al-Sisi. On 3 July, just before the deadline approached, Morsi offered to form a consensus government. An army statement read: \"The General Command of the Armed Forces is currently meeting with a number of religious, national, political and youth icons...There will be a statement issued from the General Command as soon as they are done.\" At the same time the Freedom and Justice Party's senior leader, Waleed al-Haddad, said: \"We do not go to invitations (meetings) with anyone. We have a president and that's it.\"\n\nThe head of the Egyptian Armed Forces and Defense Minister Abdul Fatah al-Sisi spoke at night from Cairo and said that the army was standing apart from the political process but was using its vision as the Egyptian people were calling for help and discharged its responsibility. Morsi was removed from power, the draft constitution was suspended and Chief Justice Adli Mansour was named interim president. Mohammed el-Baradei says the roadmap was to rectify the issues of the revolution. The Grand Sheikh of Al Azhar Ahmed el-Tayeb, the Coptic Pope Tawadros II as well as opposition leader Mohamed El Baradei and a youth member of the Tamarod movement, who were present during the statement, spoke in support of the 3 July coup. The move led to continuous civil unrest in Egypt until the present day.\n\n"}
{"id": "16458049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16458049", "title": "9ice", "text": "9ice\n\n9ice (born Abolore Ajifolajifaola Adegbola Akande, on 17 January 1980) is a Nigerian musician. He is a south-westerner from Ogbomoso in Oyo State but he grew up in the district of Bariga in Lagos.\n\n9ice won the award for Best Hip Hop Artist at the MTV Africa Music Awards in 2008. At the third edition of the Hip Hop World Awards held in Nigeria, he won the Revelation of the Year award and Best Male Vocal Performer. A month later at the first SoundCity Music Video Awards, he was nominated in the category of Best New Artist. 9ice's biggest single is titled \"Gongo Aso\". He is the founder of Alapomeji Records.\n\nIn 2014, 9ice revealed that he was going to contest for a political office in his native Ogbomosho in Oyo state. He joined the All Progressive Congress (APC) and declared his interest to contest for a seat at the Federal House of Representatives. He lost out during the primaries. 9ice was named as a Special Adviser to the Oyo state Governor, Senator Abiola Ajimobi.\n\n9ice attended Abule Okuta Primary School and CMS Grammar School, and dropped out from his law course at the Lagos State University to concentrate on music. He grew up in a polygamous home of five wives and nine children. His parents found about his singing career a year after it started around 2000. Before then, 9ice wrote his own songs, beginning at age 14. As a big fan of Pasuma Wonder, he kick-started his singing career with Fuji music. He derives his inspiration from his environment, and music from the likes of Ebenezer Obey, King Sunny Adé, Tatalo Alamu, the late Alhaji Ayinla Omowura, and the late Alhaji Haruna Ishola.\n\nAfter recording his first demo, 9ice joined the group Mysterious Boys, with whom he did a couple of tracks before going on to form his own, now defunct, group, Abinibi. Having recorded his first demo, titled \"Risi De Alagbaja\", in 1996, and his first solo song, \"Little Money\" in 2000, 9ice had to wait until 2005 before gaining recognition in the Nigerian music market.\n\nThe first major break for 9ice came from his first single, \"Little Money\". Soon after this, he did collaborations with different Nigerian artists that prompted the release of another hit single, \"Ganja Man\". ID Cabasa produced this single, which was released with other songs in March 2006. The reggae tone and playful style of the song made it an instant hit. 9ice later founded his own record company and released all other albums under that label, Alapomeji Records.\n\n9ice's first album did well, and included the songs \"Little Money\", \"Ganja Man\", \"Make Dem Talk\" and \"Music Daddy\". \"Gongo Aso\", his second album, included songs covering success, originality, partying and women, as well as themes on the institution of marriage and gratitude. He has eight studio albums to his name which includes; Certificate (2007), Gongo Aso (2008), Tradition (2009), Versus (2011) Bashorun Gaa (2011), Deluxe Version Versus & Bashorun Gaa (2011), CNN/GRA (2014) and ID Cabasa (2016).\nHe is recognized to be the first Nigerian hip-hop artist to release two albums in a year which are C.N.N (Canceling Numerous Negativity) and G.R.A (Galvanizing Right Ahead).\n\nSince late 2007 9ice has featured prominently across Nigerian campuses in the Soundcity/MTN Campus Blast tours; Lets Go There Tour With Ariya Entertainment in NY, LA, Chicago, Houston, Maryland in 2008; Star Mega Jam in 2007-2010; and London Troxy in 2008 and 2010. 9ice performed at the Nelson Mandela 90th Birthday Tribute concert (singing \"Gongo Aso\") in London on 27 June 2008. All these shows and concerts were sold-out events. He also headlined sold-out shows in the Netherlands and Malaysia in October 2010 to mark his country's 50-year anniversary of independence. In 2010, 9ice embarked on a European tour through parts of Italy, Spain and Switzerland. He also performed live in Cyprus at Lions Garden, where many Nigerian students were in attendance.\n\n9ice is known for his use of the Yoruba language in his music, and he sometimes mixes Yoruba proverbs with English, broken English, Hausa and Igbo. 9ice compares himself to Youssou N'Dour, who has won a couple of Grammy awards with music recorded in his mother tongue, and Yvonne Chaka Chaka, whose music has also embraced her language. 9ice has been quoted as saying, \"English language has been imposed on us but God graciously gave Yoruba language to us.\"\n\nIn January 2014, 9ice announced plans to run for a political office in 2015 as a House of Representatives member representing the Ogbomoso North Constituency, Oyo state in the National Assembly. He contested for the seat under the umbrella of the APC but lost at the party primaries.\n\nIn April 2015, the “Gongo Aso” singer was appointed a special adviser to the governor of Oyo state, Abiola Ajimobi.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26605051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26605051", "title": "A Note to a Certain Old Friend", "text": "A Note to a Certain Old Friend\n\nAkutagawa begins the note by stating his reason for his decision. He mentions that the author Reigner wrote in one of his short stories that no one who commits suicide fully knows why they do. “A vague sense of anxiety about my own future” is the reason Akutagawa gives.\n\nNext, he goes on to write that he had been thinking about death for the last two years with a specific interest in the process of death itself. He writes that \"A Fool's Life\" describes his thoughts completely except for the “social factor” which he purposely omitted from the story. “I think I analyzed it all in \"A Fool's Life,\" except for a social factor, namely the shadow of feudalism cast over my life\"\n\nAkutagawa then writes his thought process on how he came to decide on his manner of his death. He does this in a straightforward calculated fashion. He states that he does not believe, unlike “the Westerners”, that suicide is a sin. He decides to commit the act in the least painful way possible and researches each manner of death to find the best way. He dismissed a variety of ways to commit suicide “for aesthetic and practical reasons”. Finally he concludes that death by drugs in his house is the best option, despite the hassle it might cause his family. He writes that He feels that he has enough courage to do it alone, without a partner. This whole process, he writes, took him several months to prepare.\n\nAkutagawa then writes that he feels that humans have an animal fear of death and that his fear has been drained out of his body, so much so that he cannot enjoy food or women.\n\nLastly, he reassures his friend that he does not want to elevate himself to the status of a god, but that he is no more than an ordinary man. He remembers a conversation about \"Empedocles on Etna\" Kume and he had twenty years prior, in which he stated that he, at that time, did wish to be a god.\n\n"}
{"id": "42641898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42641898", "title": "Abu Bakr Muhammad", "text": "Abu Bakr Muhammad\n\nAbu Bakr Muhammad (died 941) was the first Muhtajid ruler of Chaghaniyan (10th-century–939) and governor of Samanid Khurasan (933–939). He was the son of a certain Muzaffar ibn Muhtaj.\n\nThe origin of the Muhtajids is unknown; the name has been given by modern historians after their presumed forebear Muhtaj ( \"Muḥtāj\"). They may have been descended from the Chaghan Khudahs, who ruled Chaghaniyan during the early Middle Ages; another possibility is that their ancestors were Arabs who migrated to the region and were Iranicized. In any case, by the early 10th century Chaghaniyan had become a vassal to the Samanids of Bukhara.\n\nHe is the first ruler fully attested in sources. Under the Samanids, he was the governor of Ferghana. When in 929 the Samanid amir Nasr II was temporarily expelled from power by his brothers, Muhammad remained loyal to him. As a result, when Nasr managed to restore himself he rewarded Muhammad with the governorship of Balkh, and then in 933 made him governor of Khurasan. During his time as governor of Khurasan, Muhammad battled various Dailamite bands in northern Iran. In 939 he fell ill and was replaced from his post by his son Abu 'Ali Chaghani; he died in 941.\n\n"}
{"id": "1268726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1268726", "title": "Beloved (novel)", "text": "Beloved (novel)\n\nBeloved is a 1987 novel by the American writer Toni Morrison. Set after the American Civil War (1861–65), it is inspired by the story of an African-American slave, Margaret Garner, who escaped slavery in Kentucky late January 1856 by fleeing to Ohio, a free state. Morrison had come across the story \"A Visit to the Slave Mother who Killed Her Child\" in an 1856 newspaper article published in the \"American Baptist\" and reproduced in \"The Black Book\", a miscellaneous compilation of black history and culture that Morrison edited in 1974.\n\n\"Beloved\" begins in 1873 in Cincinnati, Ohio, where the protagonist Sethe, a former slave, has been living with her eighteen-year-old daughter Denver. Sethe's mother-in-law, Baby Suggs lived with them until her death eight years earlier. Just before Baby Suggs' death, Sethe's two sons, Howard and Buglar, run away. Sethe believes they fled because of the malevolent presence of an abusive ghost that haunted their house at 124 Bluestone Road for years. The story opens with an introduction to the ghost: \"124 was spiteful. Full of a baby's venom.\"\n\nThe novel won the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction in 1988 and was a finalist for the 1987 National Book Award. It was adapted during 1998 into a movie of the same name starring Oprah Winfrey. A \"New York Times\" survey of writers and literary critics ranked it the best work of American fiction from 1981 to 2006.\n\nThe book's dedication reads \"Sixty Million and more\", referring to the Africans and their descendants who died as a result of the Atlantic slave trade. The book's epigraph is Romans 9:25.\n\nThe book is the story of Sethe and her youngest daughter Denver after their escape from slavery. Their home in Cincinnati is haunted by a revenant, whom they believe to be the ghost of Sethe's eldest daughter. Because of the haunting—which often involves objects being thrown around the room—Sethe's youngest daughter Denver is shy, friendless, and housebound, and her sons, Howard and Buglar, have run away from home by the age of 13. Baby Suggs, the mother of Sethe's husband Halle, dies in her bed soon afterwards.\n\nPaul D, one of the slaves from Sweet Home—the plantation where Baby Suggs, Sethe, Halle, and several other slaves once worked—arrives at Sethe's home and tries to bring a sense of reality into the house. In attempting to make the family forget the past, he forces out the spirit. He seems successful at first; he even brings housebound Denver out of the house for the first time in years. But on the way back, they encounter a young woman sitting in front of the house, calling herself Beloved. Paul D is suspicious and warns Sethe, but she is charmed by the young woman and ignores him. \n\nWhen made to sleep outside in a shed, Paul D is cornered by Beloved. While they have sex, his mind is filled with horrific memories from his past. Overwhelmed with guilt, Paul D tries to tell Sethe about it but cannot, and instead says he wants her pregnant. Sethe is elated, and Paul D resists Beloved and her influence over him. But when he tells friends at work about his plans to start a new family, they react fearfully. Stamp Paid reveals the reason for the community's rejection of Sethe.\n\nWhen Paul D asks Sethe about it, she tells him what happened: After escaping from Sweet Home and reaching her waiting children at her mother-in-law's home, Sethe was found by her master, who attempted to reclaim her and her children. Sethe grabbed her children, ran into the tool shed, and tried to kill them all. She succeeded only in killing her eldest daughter, then two years old, by running a saw along her neck. Sethe claims that she was \"trying to put my babies where they would be safe.\" The revelation is too much for Paul D and he leaves. Without him, sense of reality and time moving forward disappears.\n\nSethe comes to believe that Beloved is the two-year-old daughter she murdered, whose tombstone reads only \"Beloved\". Sethe begins to spend carelessly and spoil Beloved out of guilt. Beloved becomes angry and more demanding, throwing tantrums when she doesn't get her way. Beloved's presence consumes Sethe's life to the point where she becomes depleted and sacrifices her own need for eating, while Beloved grows bigger and bigger.\n\nIn the novel's climax, youngest daughter Denver reaches out and searches for help from the black community, and some of the village women arrive at the house to exorcise Beloved. At the same time, a white man comes into view, the same man that helped Halle's mother, Baby Suggs, by offering her the house as a place to stay after Halle bought her from their owner. He has come for Denver, who asked him for a job, but Denver has not shared this information with Sethe. Unaware of the situation, Sethe attacks the white man with an ice pick and is brought down by the village women. While Sethe is confused and has a \"re-memory\" of her master coming again, Beloved disappears. The novel resolves with Denver becoming a working member of the community and Paul D returning to Sethe and pledging his love.\n\nThe maternal bonds between Sethe and her children inhibit her own individuation and prevent the development of her self. Sethe develops a dangerous maternal passion that results in the murder of one daughter, her own \"best self\", and the estrangement of the surviving daughter from the black community, both in an attempt to salvage her \"fantasy of the future\", her children, from a life in slavery. However, Sethe fails to recognize her daughter Denver's need for interaction with this community in order to enter into womanhood. Denver finally succeeds at the end of the novel in establishing her own self and embarking on her individuation with the help of Beloved. Contrary to Denver, Sethe only becomes individuated after Beloved's exorcism, at which point Sethe can fully accept the first relationship that is completely \"for her\", her relationship with Paul D. This relationship relieves Sethe from the ensuing destruction of herself that resulted from the maternal bonds controlling her life.\n\nBeloved and Sethe are both very much emotionally impaired as a result of Sethe's previous enslavement. Slavery creates a situation where a mother is separated from her child, which has devastating consequences for both parties. Furthermore, the earliest need a child has is related to the mother: the baby needs milk from the mother. Sethe is traumatized by the experience of having her milk stolen because it means she cannot form the symbolic bond between herself and her daughter.\n\nBecause of the experiences of slavery, most slaves repressed these memories in an attempt to forget the past. This repression and dissociation from the past causes a fragmentation of the self and a loss of true identity. Sethe, Paul D. and Denver all experience this loss of self, which could only be remedied by the acceptance of the past and the memory of their original identities. Beloved serves to remind these characters of their repressed memories, eventually causing the reintegration of their selves.\n\nSlavery splits a person into a fragmented figure. The identity, consisting of painful memories and unspeakable past, denied and kept at bay, becomes a \"self that is no self.\" To heal and humanize, one must constitute it in a language, reorganize the painful events and retell the painful memories. As a result of suffering, the \"self\" becomes subject to a violent practice of making and unmaking, once acknowledged by an audience becomes real. Sethe, Paul D, and Baby Suggs who all fall short of such realization, are unable to remake their selves by trying to keep their pasts at bay. The 'self' is located in a word, defined by others. The power lies in the audience, or more precisely, in the word – once the word changes, so does the identity. All of the characters in Beloved face the challenge of an unmade self, composed of their \"rememories\" and defined by perceptions and language. The barrier that keeps them from remaking of the self is the desire for an \"uncomplicated past\" and the fear that remembering will lead them to \"a place they couldn't get back from.\"\n\nThe discussion of manhood and masculinity is foreshadowed by the dominant meaning of Sethe's story. \"Beloved\" depicts slavery in two main emotions: Love and Self-Preservation, however, Morrison does more than depict emotions.\n\nThe Author dramatizes Paul D's enslavement to speak of his morals of manhood. In fact, it also distorts him from himself. Morrison expanded on this idea indirectly by revealing different pathways to the meaning of manhood by her stylistic devices. She established new information for understanding the legacy of slavery best depicted through stylistic devices. To understand Paul D's story on manhood, Morrison puts his half- formed words and thoughts to give the audience a “taste” of what is going on inside his mind.\nThroughout the novel, Paul D's depiction of manhood was being challenged by the values of the white culture. The Author demonstrates the distinctions between “Western” and “African” values and how the dialogue between the two values is heard through juxtaposition and allusions. She had to maneuver her “message” though the social atmosphere of her words. She did this by character's motives and actions acquire.\n\nPaul D's is a victim of racial inferiority in that his dreams and goals are so high that he will never be able to achieve them because of the color of his skin. However, Paul D does not see color; he sees himself as the same status as his white counterparts even though, during this time, that was never possible. He thought he earned his right to reach each of his goals because of his sacrifices and what he has been through previously in that society will pay him back and allow him to do what his heart desired.\n\nDuring the Reconstruction Era, Jim Crow laws were put in place to limit the movement and involvement of African-Americans in the white-dominant society. Black men during this time had to establish their own identity, which may seem impossible due to all the limitations put upon them. Many black men, like Paul D, struggled to find their meaning in their society and achieving their goals because of the “disabilities” that constrained them to a certain part of the social hierarchy.\n\nIn \"Beloved,\" Sethe observes Paul D sitting on the base of the church steps “… liquor bottle in hand, stripped of the very maleness that enables him to caress and love the wounded Sethe…” (132). Throughout the novel, Paul D is sitting on a base of some sort or a foundation like a tree stub or the steps, for instance. This exemplifies his place in society. Black men are the foundation of society because without their hard labor, the white men would not profit. They were coerced into the society where they were deemed “lower-status” because of the color of their skin.\n\nIn the novel, Sethe's child, Beloved, who was murdered by the hands of her mother haunts her. For example, Sethe, Denver, and Paul D go to the neighborhood carnival, which happens to be Sethe's first social outing since killing her daughter. When they return home, that is when Beloved appears at the house. Throughout the novel, Sethe believes that the person claiming to be “Beloved” is her daughter that she killed 18 years prior.\n\nFamily relationships is an instrumental element of \"Beloved.\" These family relationships help visualize the stress and the dismantlement of African-American families in this era. The slavery system did not allow African-Americans to have rights to themselves, to their family, belongings, and even their children. So, Sethe killing Beloved was deemed a peaceful act because Sethe believed that killing her daughter was saving them. And by doing this, their family is divided and fragmented, much like the time they were living in. After the Emancipation Proclamation was signed, ex-slave's families were broken and bruised because of the hardships they faced as slaves.\n\nSince slaves could not participate in societal events, they put their faith and trust in the supernatural. They did rituals and pray to their God and most of them believed in a God, or multiple.\n\nThe pain throughout this novel is universal because everyone involved in slavery was heavily scarred, whether that be physically, mentally, sociologically, or psychologically. Some of the characters tend to “romanticize” their pain, in a way that each experience is a turning point in one's life. This concept is played throughout history in early Christian contemplative tradition and African American blues tradition.\n\n\"Beloved\" is a book of the systematic torture that ex-slaves had to deal with after the Emancipation Proclamation. Therefore, in this novel, the narrative is like a complex labyrinth because all the characters have been “stripped away” from their voice, their narrative, their language in a way that their sense of self is diminished. Also, all the characters have had different experiences with slavery, which is why their stories and their narrative are distinct from each other.\n\nIn addition to the pain, many major characters try to beautify pain in a way that diminishes what was done. For example, Sethe keeps repeating what a white girl said about her scars on her back, calling them “a Choke-cherry tree. Trunk, branches, and even leaves” (16). She repeats this to everyone, suggesting she is trying to find the beauty in her scar, even when they caused her extreme pain. Paul D and Baby Suggs both look away in disgust and deny that description of Sethe's scars. Also, Sethe does the same thing with Beloved. The memory of her ghost-like daughter plays a role of memory, grief and spite that separates Sethe and her late daughter. For instance, Beloved stays in the house with Paul D and Sethe. A home is a place of vulnerability, where the heart lies. Paul D and Baby Suggs both suggest that Beloved is not invited into the home, but Sethe says otherwise because she sees Beloved, all grown and alive, instead of the pain of when Sethe murdered her.\n\nSethe is the protagonist of the novel. She is a freed slave from a plantation called Sweet Home. She lives in the house named 124 (a house on 124 Bluestone Rd. but referred to only as \"124\") which is believed to be haunted because she killed her infant child. Her two sons have fled because of the haunting and she resides in the house with her daughter Denver. She is motherly and will do anything to protect her children from suffering the same abuses she had as a slave. Sethe is greatly influenced by her repression of the trauma she endured, she lives with \"a tree on her back\", scars from being whipped. Her character is resilient, yet defined by her traumatic past.\n\nThe opaque understanding of Beloved is central to the novel. She is a young woman who mysteriously appears from a body of water near Sethe's house and is discovered soaking wet on the doorstep by Sethe, Paul D, and Denver, on their return from visiting the fair; they take her in. It is widely believed that she is the murdered baby who haunted 124, as the haunting ends when she arrives, and in many ways she behaves like a child. The murdered baby was unnamed, her name is derived from the engraving on Sethe's murdered baby's tombstone, which simply read \"Beloved\" because Sethe could not afford to engrave the word \"Dearly\" or anything else. Beloved becomes a catalyst to bring repressed trauma of the family to the surface, but also creates madness in the house and slowly depletes Sethe.\n\nPaul D retains his slave name. All the male slaves at Sweet Home were named Paul, yet he also retains many painful memories of his time as a slave and being forced to live in a chain gang. It is said that his heart is kept in a \"tobacco tin\", as he continuously represses his painful memories. Many years after their time together at Sweet Home, Paul D and Sethe reunite and begin a romantic relationship.\n\nDenver is the only child of Sethe who is truly present in the novel. She is isolated by other young girls in the community because they fear the haunting of her house. Over the course of the novel Denver fights for her personal independence.\n\nBaby Suggs is the elderly mother of Halle. Halle works to buy her freedom, after which she travels to Cincinnati and establishes herself as a respected leader in the community. She lived in 124 where the majority of the novel takes place in the present time. After Sethe's act of infanticide Baby Suggs retires to her death bed where she develops an obsession with colors and Sethe inherits the house after her death.\n\nHalle is the son of Baby Suggs, the husband of Sethe and father of her children. He and Sethe were married in Sweet Home, yet they got separated during her escape. He is not in the present of the novel, but is mentioned in flashbacks. Paul D was the last to see Halle, churning butter at Sweet Home. It is presumed he went mad after seeing residents of Sweet Home violating Sethe and raping her of her breast milk.\n\nschoolteacher is the primary discipliner of the slaves in Sweet Home. His name is intentionally not capitalized throughout the novel. He is the most violent and abusive to the slaves at Sweet Home and eventually comes after Sethe following her escape but is unsuccessful in his attempt to recapture her and her children.\n\nAmy Denver is a compassionate, young white girl who finds Sethe desperately trying to make her way to safety after her escape from Sweet Home. Sethe is extremely pregnant at the time, and her feet are bleeding badly from the travel. Amy saves Sethe's life nurturing her back to health. Later, Amy delivers Sethe's daughter on a small boat, and Sethe names the child Denver after her.\n\nIn 1998, the novel was made into a film directed by Jonathan Demme and produced by and starring Oprah Winfrey.\n\nIn January 2016, \"Beloved\" was broadcast in 10 episodes by BBC Radio 4 as part of its \"15 Minute Drama\" programme. The radio series was adapted by Patricia Cumper.\n\n\"Beloved\" received the Frederic G. Melcher Book Award, which is named for an editor of \"Publishers Weekly\". In accepting the award on October 12, 1988, Morrison said, \"that 'there is no suitable memorial or plaque or wreath or wall or park or skyscraper lobby'\" honoring the memory of the human beings forced into slavery and brought to the United States. 'There's no small bench by the road,' she continued. 'And because such a place doesn’t exist (that I know of), the book had to.' Inspired by her remarks, the Toni Morrison Society began to install benches at significant sites in the history of slavery in America. \"The New York Times\" reported that the first 'bench by the road' was dedicated on July 26, 2008, on Sullivan's Island, South Carolina, the place of entry for some 40 percent of the enslaved Africans brought to the United States. Morrison said she was extremely moved by the memorial. In 2017 the 21st bench was placed at the Library of Congress. It is dedicated to Daniel Alexander Payne Murray (1852–1925), the first African-American assistant librarian of Congress.\n\nThe novel received the seventh annual Robert F. Kennedy Center for Justice and Human Rights Book Award in 1988, given to a novelist who \"most faithfully and forcefully reflects Robert Kennedy's purposes - his concern for the poor and the powerless, his struggle for honest and even-handed justice, his conviction that a decent society must assure all young people a fair chance, and his faith that a free democracy can act to remedy disparities of power and opportunity.\"\n\nThe publication of \"Beloved\" in 1987 resulted in the greatest acclaim yet for Morrison. Although nominated for the National Book Award, it did not win, and 48 African-American writers and critics — including Maya Angelou, Amiri Baraka, Jayne Cortez, Angela Davis, Ernest J. Gaines, Henry Louis Gates Jr., Rosa Guy, June Jordan, Paule Marshall, Louise Meriwether, Eugene Redmond, Sonia Sanchez, Quincy Troupe, John Edgar Wideman, and John A. Williams — signed a letter of protest that was published in \"The New York Times Book Review\" on January 24, 1988. Yet later in 1988 \"Beloved\" did receive the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction, as well as the Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Book Award, the Melcher Book Award, the Lyndhurst Foundation Award, and the Elmer Holmes Bobst Award.\n\nDespite its popularity and status as one of Morrison's most accomplished novels, \"Beloved\" has never been universally hailed as a success. Some reviewers have excoriated the novel for what they consider its excessive sentimentality and sensationalistic depiction of the horrors of slavery, including its characterization of the slave trade as a Holocaust-like genocide. Others, while concurring that \"Beloved\" is at times overwritten, have lauded the novel as a profound and extraordinary act of imagination. Noting the work's mythic dimensions and political focus, these commentators have treated the novel as an exploration of family, trauma, and the repression of memory as well as an attempt to restore the historical record and give voice to the collective memory of African Americans. Indeed, critics and Morrison herself have indicated that the controversial epigraph to \"Beloved\", \"sixty million and more\", is drawn from a number of studies on the African slave trade which estimate that approximately half of each ship's \"cargo\" perished in transit to America.\n\nScholars have additionally debated the nature of the character Beloved, arguing whether she is actually a ghost or a real person. Numerous reviews, assuming Beloved to be a supernatural incarnation of Sethe's daughter, have subsequently faulted \"Beloved\" as an unconvincing and confusing ghost story. Elizabeth B. House, however, has argued that Beloved is not a ghost, and the novel is actually a story of two probable instances of mistaken identity. Beloved is haunted by the loss of her African parents and thus comes to believe that Sethe is her mother. Sethe longs for her dead daughter and is rather easily convinced that Beloved is the child she has lost. Such an interpretation, House contends, clears up many puzzling aspects of the novel and emphasizes Morrison's concern with familial ties.\n\nSince the late 1970s, there has been a strong focus on Morrison's representation of African-American experience and history. The idea that writing acts as a means of healing or recovery is a strain in many of these studies. Timothy Powell, for instance, argues that Morrison's recovery of a black logos rewrites blackness as \"affirmation, presence, and good\", while Theodore O. Mason, Jr., suggests that Morrison's stories unite communities.\n\nMany critics explore memory, or what \"Beloved\"’s Sethe calls \"rememory\", in this light. Susan Bowers places Morrison in a \"long tradition of African American apocalyptic writing\" that looks back in time, \"unveiling\" the horrors of the past in order to \"transform\" them. Several critics have interpreted Morrison's representations of trauma and memory through a psychoanalytic framework. Ashraf H. A. Rushdy explores how \"primal scenes\" in Morrison's novels are \"an opportunity and affective agency for self-discovery through memory\" and \"rememory\". As Jill Matus argues, however, Morrison's representations of trauma are “never simply curative”: in raising the ghosts of the past in order to banish or memorialize them, the texts potentially “provoke readers to the vicarious experience of trauma and act as a means of transmission\".\nAnn Snitow's reaction to \"Beloved\" neatly illustrates how Morrison criticism began to evolve and move toward new modes of interpretation. In her 1987 review of \"Beloved\", Snitow argues that Beloved, the ghost at the center of the narrative, is \"too light\" and \"hollow\", rendering the entire novel \"airless\". Snitow changed her position after reading criticism that interpreted \"Beloved\" in a different way, seeing something more complicated and burdened than a literal ghost, something requiring different forms of creative expression and critical interpretation. The conflicts at work here are ideological as well as critical: they concern the definition and evaluation of American and African-American literature, the relationship between art and politics, and the tension between recognition and appropriation.\n\nIn defining Morrison's texts as African-American literature, critics have become more attentive to historical and social context and to the way Morrison's fiction engages with specific places and moments in time. As Jennings observes, many of Morrison's novels are set in isolated black communities where African practices and belief systems are not marginalized by a dominant white culture but rather remain active, if perhaps subconscious, forces shaping the community. Matus comments that Morrison's later novels \"have been even more thoroughly focused on specific historical moments\"; \"through their engagement with the history of slavery and early twentieth-century Harlem, [they] have imagined and memorialized aspects of black history that have been forgotten or inadequately remembered\".\n\nBeloved has been banned from five U.S. schools since 2007. In 2017, Beloved was considered for removal from the Fairfax County (VA) senior English reading list due to a parent's complaint that “the book includes scenes of violent sex, including a gang rape, and was too graphic and extreme for teenagers”. Other common reasons for censorship include bestiality and infanticide. Parental concern about Beloved's content inspired the “Beloved Bill”, legislation that would require Virginia public schools to notify parents of any “sexually explicit content” and provide an alternative assignment if requested.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31615192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31615192", "title": "Biomimetic antifouling coating", "text": "Biomimetic antifouling coating\n\nBiomimetic antifouling coatings are special coatings that prevent the accumulation of marine organisms on a surface. Typical antifouling coatings are not biomimetic but are based on synthetic chemical compounds that can have deleterious effects on the environment. Prime examples are tributyltin compounds, which are components in paints to prevent biofouling of ship hulls. Although highly effective at combatting the accumulation of barnacles and other problematic organisms, organotin-containing paints are damaging to many organisms and have been shown to interrupt marine food chains.\n\nMost antifouling coatings are based upon chemical compounds that inhibit fouling. When incorporated into marine coatings, these biocides leech into the immediate surroundings and minimize fouling. The classic synthetic antifouling agent is tributyltin (TBT). Natural biocides typically show lower environmental impact but variable effectiveness. \n\nNatural biocides are found in a variety of sources, including sponges, algae, corals, sea urchins, bacteria, and sea-squirts, and include toxins, anaesthetics, and growth/attachment/metamorphosis-inhibiting molecules. As a group, marine microalgae alone produce over 3600 secondary metabolites that play complex ecological roles including defense from predators, as well as antifouling protection, increasing scientific interest in the screening of marine natural products as natural biocides. Natural biocides are typically divided into two categories: terpenes (often containing unsaturated ligand groups and electronegative oxygen functional groups) and nonterpenes.\n\nVarious tannins (nonterpene), naturally synthesized by a variety of plants, are effective biocides when combined with copper and zinc salts. The tannins are able to flocculate with a variety of cations, which then exhibit antiseptic properties. The most effective natural biocide is 3,4-dihydroxybufa-20,22 dienolide, or bufalin (a steroid of toad poison from \"Bufo vulgaris\"), which is over 100 times more effective than TBT at preventing biofouling. Bufalin is however expensive. A few natural compounds with simpler synthetic routes, such as nicotinamide or 2,5,6-tribromo-1-methylgramine (from \"Zoobotryon pellucidum\"), have been incorporated into patented antifouling paints.\n\nA significant drawback to biomimetic chemical agents is their modest service life. Since the natural biocides must leech out of the coating to be effective, the rate of leeching is a key parameter.\nformula_1\n\nWhere L is the fraction of the biocide actually released (typically around 0.7), a is the weight fraction of the active ingredient in the biocide, DFT is the dry film thickness, W is the concentration of the natural biocide in the wet paint, SPG is the specific gravity of the wet paint, and SVR is the percentage of dry paint to wet paint by volume.\n\nOne class of biomimetic antifouling coatings is inspired by the surface of shark skin, which consists of nanoscale overlapping plates that exhibit parallel ridges that effectively prevent sharks from becoming fouled even when moving at slow speeds. The antifouling qualities of the shark skin-inspired designs appear highly dependent upon the engineered roughness index (ERI).\n\nformula_2\n\nWhere r is the Wenzel roughness ratio, n is the number of distinct surface features in the design of the surface, and φ is the area fraction of the tops of the distinct surface features. A completely smooth surface would have an ERI = 0.\n\nUsing this equation, the amount of microfouling spores per mm can be modeled. Similar to actual shark skin, the patterned nature of Sharklet AF shows microstructural differences in three dimensions with a corresponding ERI of 9.5. This three-dimensional patterned difference imparts a 77% reduction in microfouling settlement. Other artificial nonpatterned nanoscale rough surfaces such as 2-μm-diameter circular pillars (ERI = 5.0) or 2-μm-wide ridges (ERI = 6.1) reduce fouling settlement by 36% and 31%, respectively, while a more patterned surface composed of 2-μm-diameter circular pillars and 10-μm equilateral triangles (ERI = 8.7) reduces spore settlement by 58%. The contact angles obtained for hydrophobic surfaces are directly related to surface roughnesses by the Wenzel equation.\n\nBiomimetic antifouling coatings are highly lucrative because of their low environmental impact and demonstrated success. Some properties of a biomimetic antifouling coating can be predicted from the contact angles obtained from the Wenzel equation, and the calculated ERI. Natural materials such as shark skin continue to provide inspiration for scientists to improve the coatings currently on the market.\n\n"}
{"id": "155192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=155192", "title": "Chimera (genetics)", "text": "Chimera (genetics)\n\nA genetic chimerism or chimera ( or , also chimaera (c\"himæra\") is a single organism composed of cells with distinct genotypes. In animals, this means an individual derived from two or more zygotes, which can include possessing blood cells of different blood types, subtle variations in form (phenotype) and, if the zygotes were of differing sexes, then even the possession of both female and male sex organs (this is just one of many different ways that may result in intersexuality). Animal chimeras are produced by the merger of multiple fertilized eggs. In plant chimeras, however, the distinct types of tissue may originate from the same zygote, and the difference is often due to mutation during ordinary cell division. Normally, genetic chimerism is not visible on casual inspection; however, it has been detected in the course of proving parentage.\n\nAnother way that chimerism can occur in animals is by organ transplantation, giving one individual tissues that developed from a different genome. For example, transplantation of bone marrow often determines the recipient's ensuing blood type.\n\nAn animal chimera is a single organism that is composed of two or more different populations of genetically distinct cells that originated from different zygotes involved in sexual reproduction. If the different cells have emerged from the same zygote, the organism is called a mosaic. Chimeras are formed from at least four parent cells (two fertilised eggs or early embryos fused together). Each population of cells keeps its own character and the resulting organism is a mixture of tissues. Cases of human chimerism have been documented.\n\nThis condition is either inherited or it is acquired through the infusion of allogeneic hematopoietic cells during transplantation or transfusion. In nonidentical twins, chimerism occurs by means of blood-vessel anastomoses. The likelihood of offspring being a chimera is increased if it is created via in vitro fertilisation. Chimeras can often breed, but the fertility and type of offspring depends on which cell line gave rise to the ovaries or testes; varying degrees of intersex differences may result if one set of cells is genetically female and another genetically male.\n\nTetragametic chimerism is a form of congenital chimerism. This condition occurs through the fertilisation of two separate ova by two sperm, followed by aggregation of the two at the blastocyst or zygote stages. This results in the development of an organism with intermingled cell lines. Put another way, the chimera is formed from the merging of two nonidentical twins (a similar merging presumably occurs with identical twins, but as their genotypes are not significantly distinct, the resulting individual would not be considered a chimera). As such, they can be male, female, or have mixed intersex characteristics.\n\nAs the organism develops, it can come to possess organs that have different sets of chromosomes. For example, the chimera may have a liver composed of cells with one set of chromosomes and have a kidney composed of cells with a second set of chromosomes. This has occurred in humans, and at one time was thought to be extremely rare, though more recent evidence suggests that it is not the case.\n\nThis is particularly true for the marmoset. Recent research shows most marmosets are chimeras, sharing DNA with their fraternal twins. 95% of marmoset fraternal twins trade blood through chorionic fusions, making them hematopoietic chimeras.\n\nMost chimeras will go through life without realizing they are chimeras. The difference in phenotypes may be subtle (\"e.g.\", having a hitchhiker's thumb and a straight thumb, eyes of slightly different colors, differential hair growth on opposite sides of the body, etc.) or completely undetectable. Chimeras may also show, under a certain spectrum of UV light, distinctive marks on the back resembling that of arrow points pointing downwards from the shoulders down to the lower back; this is one expression of pigment unevenness called Blaschko's lines.\n\nAffected persons may be identified by the finding of two populations of red cells or, if the zygotes are of opposite sex, ambiguous genitalia and intersex alone or in combination; such persons sometimes also have patchy skin, hair, or eye pigmentation (heterochromia). If the blastocysts are of opposite sex, genitals of both sexes may be formed: either ovary and testis, or combined ovotestes, in one rare form of intersex, a condition previously known as \"true hermaphroditism\".\n\nNote that the frequency of this condition does \"not\" indicate the true prevalence of chimerism. Most chimeras composed of both male and female cells probably do not have an intersex condition, as might be expected if the two cell populations were evenly blended throughout the body. Often, most or all of the cells of a single cell type will be composed of a single cell line, i.e. the blood may be composed predominantly of one cell line, and the internal organs of the other cell line. Genitalia produce the hormones responsible for other sex characteristics. \n\nNatural chimeras are almost never detected unless they exhibit abnormalities such as male/female or hermaphrodite characteristics or uneven skin pigmentation. The most noticeable are some male tortoiseshells and calicos (although most male tortoiseshells have an extra X chromosome responsible for the colouration) or animals with ambiguous sex organs.\n\nThe existence of chimerism is problematic for DNA testing, a fact with implications for family and criminal law. The Lydia Fairchild case, for example, was brought to court after DNA testing apparently showed that her children could not be hers. Fraud charges were filed against her and her custody of her children was challenged. The charge against her was dismissed when it became clear that Lydia was a chimera, with the matching DNA being found in her cervical tissue. Another case was that of Karen Keegan, who was also suspected (initially) of not being her children's biological mother, after DNA tests on her adult sons for a kidney transplant she needed seemed to show she was not their mother.\n\nThe tetragametic state has important implications for organ or stem cell transplantation. Chimeras typically have immunologic tolerance to both cell lines.\n\nMicrochimerism is the presence of a small number of cells that are genetically distinct from those of the host individual. Most people are born with a few cells genetically identical to their mothers' and the proportion of these cells goes down in healthy individuals as they get older. People who retain higher numbers of cells genetically identical to their mothers' have been observed to have higher rates of some autoimmune diseases, presumably because the immune system is responsible for destroying these cells and a common immune defect prevents it from doing so and also causes autoimmune problems.\nThe higher rates of autoimmune diseases due to the presence of maternally-derived cells is why in a 2010 study of a 40-year-old man with scleroderma-like disease (an autoimmune rheumatic disease), the female cells detected in his blood stream via FISH (fluorescence in situ hybridization) were thought to be maternally-derived. However, his form of microchimerism was found to be due to a vanished twin, and whether or not microchimerism from a vanished twin might predispose individuals to autoimmune diseases as well is unknown. Women often also have a few cells genetically identical to that of their children, and some people also have some cells genetically identical to that of their siblings (maternal siblings only, since these cells are passed to them because their mother retained them).\n\nChimerism occurs naturally in adult Ceratioid anglerfish and is in fact a natural and essential part of their life cycle. Once the male achieves adulthood, it begins its search for a female. Using strong olfactory (or smell) receptors, the male searches until it locates a female anglerfish. The male, less than an inch in length, bites into her skin and releases an enzyme that digests the skin of both his mouth and her body, fusing the pair down to the blood-vessel level. While this attachment has become necessary for the male's survival, it will eventually consume him, as both anglerfish fuse into a single hermaphroditic individual. Sometimes in this process more than one male will attach to a single female as a symbiote. They will all be consumed into the body of the larger female angler. Once fused to a female, the males will reach sexual maturity, developing large testicles as their other organs atrophy. This process allows for sperm to be in constant supply when the female produces an egg, so that the chimeric fish is able to have a greater number of offspring.\n\nGermline chimerism occurs when the germ cells (for example, sperm and egg cells) of an organism are not genetically identical to its own. It has recently been discovered that marmosets can carry the reproductive cells of their (fraternal) twin siblings, because of placental fusion during development. (Marmosets almost always give birth to fraternal twins.)\n\n\nIn biological research, chimeras are artificially produced by selectively transplanting embryonic cells from one organism onto the embryo of another, and allowing the resultant blastocyst to develop. Chimeras are not hybrids, which form from the fusion of gametes from two species that form a single zygote with a combined genetic makeup. Nor are they Hybridomas, which, as with hybrids, result from the fusion of two species' cells into a single cell and artificial propagation of this cell in the laboratory. Essentially, in a chimera, each cell is from either of the parent species, whereas in a hybrid and hybridoma, each cell is derived from both parent species. \"Chimera\" is a broad term and is often applied to many different mechanisms of the mixing of cells from two different species.\n\nAs with cloning, the process of creating and implanting a chimera is imprecise, with the majority of embryos spontaneously terminating. Successes, however, have led to major advancements in the field of embryology, as creating chimeras of one species with different physical traits, such as colour, has allowed researchers to trace the differentiation of embryonic cells through the formation of organ systems in the adult individual.\n\nThe first known primate chimeras are the rhesus monkey twins, Roku and Hex, with each having six genomes. They were created by mixing cells from totipotent four cell blastocysts; although the cells never fused they worked together to form organs. It was discovered that one of these primates, Roku, was a sexual chimera; as four percent of Roku's blood cells contained two x chromosomes.\n\nA major milestone in chimera experimentation occurred in 1984, when a chimeric geep was produced by combining embryos from a goat and a sheep, and survived to adulthood. The creation of the \"geep\" revealed several complexities to chimera development. In implanting a goat embryo for gestation in a sheep, the sheep's immune system would reject the developing goat embryo, whereas a \"geep\" embryo (sharing markers of immunity with both sheep and goats) was able to survive implantation in either of its parent species.\n\nIn August 2003, researchers at the Shanghai Second Medical University in China reported that they had successfully fused human skin cells and rabbit ova to create the first human chimeric embryos. The embryos were allowed to develop for several days in a laboratory setting, then destroyed to harvest the resulting stem cells. In 2007, scientists at the University of Nevada School of Medicine created a sheep whose blood contained 15% human cells and 85% sheep cells.\n\nChimeric mice are important animals in biological research, as they allow the investigation of a variety of biological questions in an animal that has two distinct genetic pools within it. These include insights into such problems as the tissue specific requirements of a gene, cell lineage, and cell potential.\nThe general methods for creating chimeric mice can be summarized either by injection or aggregation of embryonic cells from different origins. The first chimeric mouse was made by Beatrice Mintz in the 1960s through the aggregation of eight-cell-stage embryos. Injection on the other hand was pioneered by Richard Gardner and Ralph Brinster who injected cells into blastocysts to create chimeric mice with germ lines fully derived from injected embryonic stem cells (ES cells). Chimeras can be derived from mouse embryos that have not yet implanted in the uterus as well as from implanted embryos. ES cells from the inner cell mass of an implanted blastocyst can contribute to all cell lineages of a mouse including the germ line. ES cells are a useful tool in chimeras because genes can be mutated in them through the use of homologous recombination, thus allowing gene targeting. Since this discovery occurred in 1988, ES cells have become a key tool in the generation of specific chimeric mice.\n\nThe ability to make mouse chimeras comes from an understanding of early mouse development. Between the stages of fertilization of the egg and the implantation of a blastocyst into the uterus, different parts of the mouse embryo retain the ability to give rise to a variety of cell lineages. Once the embryo has reached the blastocyst stage, it is composed of several parts, mainly the trophectoderm, the inner cell mass, and the primitive endoderm. Each of these parts of the blastocyst gives rise to different parts of the embryo; the inner cell mass gives rise to the embryo proper, while the trophectoderm and primitive endoderm give rise to extra embryonic structures that support growth of the embryo. Two- to eight-cell-stage embryos are competent for making chimeras, since at these stages of development, the cells in the embryos are not yet committed to give rise to any particular cell lineage, and could give rise to the inner cell mass or the trophectoderm. In the case where two diploid eight-cell-stage embryos are used to make a chimera, chimerism can be later found in the epiblast, primitive endoderm, and trophectoderm of the mouse blastocyst.\n\nIt is possible to dissect the embryo at other stages so as to accordingly give rise to one lineage of cells from an embryo selectively and not the other. For example, subsets of blastomeres can be used to give rise to chimera with specified cell lineage from one embryo. The Inner Cell Mass of a diploid blastocyst for example can be used to make a chimera with another blastocyst of eight-cell diploid embryo; the cells taken from the inner cell mass will give rise to the primitive endoderm and to the epiblast in the chimera mouse.\nFrom this knowledge, ES cell contributions to chimeras have been developed. ES cells can be used in combination with eight-cell-and two-cell-stage embryos to make chimeras and exclusively give rise to the embryo proper. Embryos that are to be used in chimeras can further be genetically altered in order to specifically contribute to only one part of chimera. An example is the chimera built off of ES cells and tetraploid embryos, which are artificially made by electrofusion of two two-cell diploid embryos. The tetraploid embryo will exclusively give rise to the trophectoderm and primitive endoderm in the chimera.\n\nThere are a variety of combinations that can give rise to a successful chimera mouse and — according to the goal of the experiment — an appropriate cell and embryo combination can be picked; they are generally but not limited to diploid embryo and ES cells, diploid embryo and diploid embryo, ES cell and tetraploid embryo, diploid embryo and tetraploid embryo, ES cells and ES cells. The combination of embryonic stem cell and diploid embryo is a common technique used for the making of chimeric mice, since gene targeting can be done in the embryonic stem cell. These kinds of chimeras can be made through either aggregation of stem cells and the diploid embryo or injection of the stem cells into the diploid embryo. If embryonic stem cells are to be used for gene targeting to make a chimera, the following procedure is common: a construct for homologous recombination for the gene targeted will be introduced into cultured mouse embryonic stem cells from the donor mouse, by way of electroporation; cells positive for the recombination event will have antibiotic resistance, provided by the insertion cassette used in the gene targeting; and be able to be positively selected for. ES cells with the correct targeted gene are then injected into a diploid host mouse blastocyst. These injected blastocysts are then implanted into a pseudo pregnant female surrogate mouse, which will bring the embryos to term and give birth to a mouse whose germline is derived from the donor mouse's ES cells. This same procedure can be achieved through aggregation of ES cells and diploid embryos, diploid embryos are cultured in aggregation plates in wells where single embryos can fit, to these wells ES cells are added the aggregates are cultured until a single embryo is formed and has progressed to the blastocyst stage, and can then be transferred to the surrogate mouse.\n\nThe distinction between sectorial, mericlinal and periclinal plant chimeras are widely used.\n\nThese are produced by grafting genetically different parents, different cultivars or different species (which may belong to different genera). The tissues may be partially fused together following grafting to form a single growing organism that preserves both types of tissue in a single shoot. Just as the constituent species are likely to differ in a wide range of features, so the behavior of their periclinal chimeras is like to be highly variable.\nThe first such known chimera was probably the Bizzaria, which is a fusion of the Florentine citron and the sour orange. Well-known examples of a graft-chimera are \"Laburnocytisus\" 'Adamii', caused by a fusion of a \"Laburnum\" and a broom, and \"Family\" trees, where multiple varieties of apple or pear are grafted onto the same tree. Many fruit trees are cultivated by grafting the body of a sapling onto a rootstock.\n\nThese are chimeras in which the layers differ in their chromosome constitution. Occasionally chimeras arise from loss or gain of individual chromosomes or chromosome fragments owing to misdivision. More commonly cytochimeras have simple multiple of the normal chromosome complement in the changed layer. There are various effects on cell size and growth characteristics.\n\nThese chimeras arise by spontaneous or induced mutation of a nuclear gene to a dominant or recessive allele. As a rule one character is affected at a time in the leaf, flower, fruit, or other parts.\n\nThese chimeras arise by spontaneous or induced mutation of a plastid gene, followed by the sorting-out of two kinds of plastid during vegetative growth. Alternatively, after selfing or nucleic acid thermodynamics, plastids may sort-out from a mixed egg or mixed zygote respectively. This type of chimera is recognized at the time of origin by the sorting-out pattern in the leaves. After sorting-out is complete, periclinal chimeras are distinguished from similar looking nuclear gene-differential chimeras by their non-mendelian inheritance. The majority of variegated-leaf chimeras are of this kind.\n\nAll plastid gene- and some nuclear gene-differential chimeras affect the color of the plasmids within the leaves, and these are grouped together as chlorophyll chimeras, or preferably as variegated leaf chimeras. For most variegation, the mutation involved is the loss of the chloroplasts in the mutated tissue, so that part of the plant tissue has no green pigment and no photosynthetic ability. This mutated tissue is unable to survive on its own but is kept alive by its partnership with normal photosynthetic tissue. Sometimes chimeras are also found with layers differing in respect of both their nuclear and their plastid genes.\n\nThere are multiple reasons to explain the occurrence of plant chimera during plant recovery stage:\n\n(1) The process of shoot organogenesis starts form the multicellular origin.\n\n(2) The endogenous tolerance leads to the ineffectiveness of the weak selective agents.\n\n(3) A self-protection mechanism (cross protection). Transformed cells serve as guards to protect the untransformed ones.\n\n(4) The observable characteristic of transgenic cells may be a transient expression of the marker gene. Or it may due to the presence of agrobacterium cells.\n\nUntransformed cells should be easy to detect and remove to avoid chimeras. Because it’s extremely important to maintain the stable ability of the transgenic plants across different generations. Reporter genes such as GUS and Green Fluorescent Protein(GFP) are utilized in combination with plant selective markers (herbicide, antibody etc.) However, GUS expression depends on the plant development stage and GFP may be influenced by the green tissue autofluorescence. Quantitative PCR could be an alternative method for chimera detection.\n\nThe US and Western Europe have strict codes of ethics and regulations in place that expressly forbid certain subsets of experimentation using human cells, though there is a vast difference in the regulatory framework. Through the creation of human-chimera comes the question: where does society now draw the line of humanity? This question poses serious legal and moral issues, along with creating controversy. Chimpanzees, for example, are not offered any legal standing, and are put down if they pose a threat to humans. If a chimpanzee is genetically altered to be more similar to a human, it may blur the ethical line between animal and man. Legal debate would be the next step in the process to determine whether certain chimera should be granted legal rights. Along with issues regarding the rights of chimera, individuals have expressed concern whether or not creating human-chimera diminishes the dignity of being human.\n\nIn May 2008, a robust debate in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom on the ethics of creating chimeras with human stem cells led to the decision that embryos would be allowed to be made in laboratories, given that they would be destroyed within the first 14 days.\n\nOn 11 July 2005, a bill, The Human Chimera Prohibition Act, was introduced into the United States Congress by Senator \nSamuel Brownback; however, it died in Congress sometime in the next year. The bill was introduced based on the findings that science has progressed to the point where the human and nonhuman species can be merged to create new forms of life. Because of this, serious ethical issues arise as this blurs the line between humans and other animals, and according to the bill with this blurring of the lines comes a show of disrespect for human dignity. The final claim brought up in The Human Chimera Prohibition Act was that there is an increasing amount of zoonotic diseases and the creation of human-animal chimeras can allow these diseases to reach humans. Since the bill's death in congress, there has not been another attempt at setting regulations on chimera research in the United States.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58032594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58032594", "title": "Chrysa Spiliotis", "text": "Chrysa Spiliotis\n\nChrysa Spiliotis also Chrisa Spilioti; , ( - 23 July 2018) was a Greek stage and television actress, playwright and radio presenter.\n\nSpiliotis was born and grew up in Filothei near Athens. She spent part of her childhood on the Greek island of Evia. Spiliotis attended the National Theatre of Greece Drama School, and after graduating, studied improvisation in France.\n\nIn 1996 she began writing plays. More than ten of her works have been translated into several foreign languages and have been performed in theaters in Greece and abroad (including New York, London, Croatia, and the Netherlands). Her plays include \"Who discovered America?\", \"Scottish shower\", \"Aga-shu and fi\", \"With a difference of breast\", \"Fire and water\", \"Who Sleeps Tonight?\" and \"The Eye of the Tiger\". She directed some theatrical performances of her plays.\n\nSpiliotis taught playwriting at the Theater of Changes, the International Theater Institute, the Faculty of Theatre Studies at the University of Athens, the Theatre of Cyprus and Cyprus' \"Open Theatre.\" She also served as a member of the board of directors of the Central Theater of Northern Greece and the International Theater Institute.\n\nSpiliotis first appeared on television in 1997 in the Mega TV soap opera \"The Queen of the Queen\". On stage, she collaborated with directors such as Minos Volanakis, G. Sebastikoglou and others, and appeared in various theaters such as \"Theater of the South\", the \"Open Theater\", \"Theater of Spring\", \"Theater of Kefallinia\", National Theater and \"Free Stage\". Spiliotis taught acting at the Dramatic School-Diomidis Fotiadis and in kindergartens and elementary schools in Attica.\n\nFor three years, she wrote the scripts for ERT's daily children's programme \"Around Everyone\". She also wrote and presented to ERT, in collaboration with Annetta Papathanasiou and Olympia Basklavani, the children's series \"Lights please\" and \"Bourboulethres\" and the children's play \"In the Country of the Carnival\". She wrote fairy tales for ERT's radio program \"And sweet dreams\", and the series \"Thousand Nights and a Nazareth\" and the script for the TV series \"At the Right Time\", which was screened by ERT.\n\nSpiliotis was married to Dimitris Tournavi, a musician and former athlete.\n\nSpiliotis and her husband both died in a wildfire in Mati, Attica. She was reported missing on 23 July 2018 and her body was identified on 29 July, two days after her husband's corpse was identified. Spiliotis apparently reached safety at a beach, where she left her dog, but returned to the area of the fire to find her husband.\n\nAt the Athens Festival on the evening of 27 July 2018, festival director Vangelis Theodoropoulos dedicated the performance of \"Thesmophorazous\" to Spiliotis, who was at the time listed as missing, and all victims of the wildfires. A statement of condolences from the Greek Ministry of Culture concluded, \"Chrysa Spiliotis was a charismatic actress, a special woman, a bright presence.\"\n"}
{"id": "602878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=602878", "title": "Columbine Mine massacre", "text": "Columbine Mine massacre\n\nThe Columbine Mine massacre, sometimes called the Columbine massacre, occurred in 1927, in the town of Serene, Colorado. A fight broke out between Colorado state police and a group of striking coal miners, during which the unarmed miners were attacked with firearms. The miners testified that machine guns were fired at them, which the state police disputed. Six strikers were killed, and dozens were injured.\n\nThe company town of Serene, Colorado, nestled on a rolling hillside, was the home of the Columbine mine. The strike was five weeks old and strikers had been conducting morning rallies at Serene for two weeks, for the Columbine was one of the few coal mines in the state to remain in operation. On November 21, 1927, five hundred miners, some accompanied by their wives and children, arrived at the north gate just before dawn. They carried three \nFlags of the United States. At the direction of Josephine Roche, daughter of the recently- deceased owner of the Rocky Mountain Fuel Company, the picketers had been served coffee and doughnuts on previous mornings.\n\nThat morning, the recently-disbanded state police, also known as the Colorado Rangers, were recalled to duty and would meet the picketers and bar their path. The miners were surprised to see men dressed in civilian clothes, but armed with machine pistols, rifles, riot guns and tear gas grenades. The Rangers were backed up by rifle-toting mine guards stationed on the mine dump. The Head of the Rangers, Louis Scherf, shouted to the strikers, \"Who are your leaders?\" \"We're all leaders!\" came the reply. Scherf announced that the strikers would not be allowed into the town, and for a few moments the strikers hesitated outside the fence. There was discussion, with many of the strikers asserting their right to proceed. Serene had a public post office, they argued, and some of their children were enrolled in the school in Serene. One of the Rangers was reported to have taunted, \"If you want to come in here, come ahead, but we'll carry you out.\"\n\nStrike leader Adam Bell stepped forward and asked for the gate to be unlocked. As he put his hand on the gate, one of the Rangers struck him with a club. A sixteen-year-old boy stood nearby and was holding one of the flags. The banner was snatched from him, and in the tug of war that followed, the flagpole broke over the fence. The miners rushed toward the gate, and suddenly the air was filled with tear gas launched by the police. A tear gas grenade hit Mrs. Kubic in the back, as she tried to get away. Some of the miners threw the tear gas grenades back.\n\nThe miners in the front of the group scaled the gate, led by Adam Bell's call of \"Come on!\" Bell was pulled down by three policemen. Viciously clubbed on the head, he fell unconscious to the ground. A battle raged over his prostrate form, the miners shielding him from the Rangers. Mrs. Elizabeth Beranek, mother of 16 children and one of the flag-bearers, tried to protect him by thrusting her flag in front of his attackers. The police turned on her, bruising her severely. Rangers reportedly seized Mrs. Beranek's flag too.\n\nPolice admitted to using clubs in the skirmish. In Scherf's words, \"We knocked them down as fast as they came over the gate.\" Miners would later say that the clubs were lengths of gas pipe. A striker belted one Ranger in the face, breaking his nose. A pocketknife-wielding miner cut another on the hand, while other strikers pelted the Rangers with rocks. Blood gushed from a cut above one Ranger's eye, when a rock found its mark. The police then retreated.\n\nEnraged, the strikers forced their way through the wooden gate. Jerry Davis grabbed one of the fallen flags, as hundreds of angry miners surged through the entrance. Others scaled the fence east of the gate. \n\nThe police retreated, forming two lines at the water tank; inside the fence. Louis Scherf fired two .45 caliber rounds over the heads of the strikers. His men responded with deadly fire directly into the crowd. The miners scattered. Twelve remained on the ground: some dead, some injured. \n\nAt least two, and possibly three machine guns were available at the mine. Miners later claimed that their ranks were decimated by a withering crossfire from the mine tipple – a structure where coal was loaded onto railroad cars – and from a gun on a truck near the water tank. John Eastenes, 34, of Lafayette, married and father of six children, died instantly. Nick Spanudakhis, 34, of Lafayette, lived only a few minutes. Frank Kovich of Erie, Rene Jacques, 26, of Louisville and 21-year-old Jerry Davis died hours later in the hospital. The Flag of the United States Davis carried was riddled with seventeen bullet holes and stained with blood. Mike Vidovich of Erie, 35, died a week later of his injuries. \n\nThe state police later testified that they had not used machine guns in the fight. The miners and some witnesses testified that machine guns were used. Some witnesses identified a mine guard who had climbed the tipple and may have operated the machine gun mounted there, providing one possible explanation for the discrepancy in testimony. However, the machine gun near the watertank was reportedly manned by one of Scherf's men.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56733622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56733622", "title": "Coping planning", "text": "Coping planning\n\nCoping planning is an approach to supporting people who are distressed. It is part of a biopsychosocial approach to mental health and wellbeing that comprises healthy environments, responsive parenting, belonging, healthy activities, coping, psychological resilience and treatment of illness. Coping planning normalises distress as a universal human experience. It draws on a health-focused approach to coping, to improve emotion regulation and decrease the memory of unpleasant emotions. Coping planning interventions are effective when people are supported in the process of forming coping plans.\n\nCoping planning aims to meet the needs of people who ask for help with distress, including suicidal ideation. By addressing \"why\" someone asks for help, the focus stays on what the person needs rather than on what the helper wants to do. It provides an alternative to the widely used, but non-evidence-based risk-assessment approach to suicide prevention. Needs assessment and support focuses on the individual needs of each person. They are rated as low (coping independently), moderate (may need additional low-intensity professional support), or high (needs immediate high-intensity professional support).\n\nIn addition to suicide prevention training for health professionals, coping planning has been used to train journalists, and to help a range of people cope better, including carers, university students, and with children to improve emotional regulation.\n\nCoping planning is designed to contribute to suicide prevention in a number of ways. Firstly, it provides a framework to support people whenever they seek help, rather than waiting until they are considered high-risk for death by suicide. Secondly, it aims to focus on helping people to cope, rather than to stay safe from suicide, which, according to ironic process theory, makes it more likely that people will think about suicide. Healthy coping strategies improve overall wellbeing and reduce distress. The approach is designed for use in both low (e.g., psychological first aiders or telephone helplines) and high intensity services (e.g., emergency departments or inpatient care units).\n\n"}
{"id": "27139763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27139763", "title": "Disability hate crime", "text": "Disability hate crime\n\nDisability hate crime is a form of hate crime arising from the hostility of the perpetrator towards the disability, or perceived disability, of the victim, or because of their perceived connection to disability. It is often viewed politically as a logical extreme of ableism (sometimes known in the UK by the disputed word \"disablism\"), carried through into criminal acts against the person. This phenomenon can take many forms, from verbal abuse and intimidatory behaviour to vandalism, assault, or even murder. Disability hate crimes may take the form of one-off incidents, or may represent systematic abuse which continues over periods of weeks, months or even years.\n\nDisability hate crime may occur between strangers who have never met, between acquaintances or within the family. The two key requirements for an act to be called a \"disability hate crime\" are that it is motivated in part or whole by prejudice against someone because of disability; and second, that the act is actually a crime.\n\nSir Ken Macdonald, QC, the then Director of Public Prosecutions for England and Wales stated in a speech to the Bar Council in October 2008 that \"I am on record as saying that it is my sense that disability hate crime is very widespread. I have said that it is my view that at the lower end of the spectrum there is a vast amount not being picked up. I have also expressed the view that the more serious disability hate crimes are not always being prosecuted as they should be. This is a scar on the conscience of criminal justice. And all bodies and all institutions involved in the delivery of justice, including my own, share the responsibility.\" \n\nIn the United States, the \"Matthew Shepard and James Byrd Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act\" of 2009 expanded the 1969 United States federal hate-crime law to include crimes motivated by a victim's actual or perceived disability.\n\nIn the UK, disability hate crime is regarded as an aggravating factor under Section 146 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003, allowing a heavier tariff to be used in sentencing than the crime might draw without the hate elements. Section 146 states that the sentencing provisions apply if:\n\nThe test in Section 146 is deliberately one for evidence of 'hostility' rather than 'hatred' as the seriousness of the offence was considered to justify the application of a less-strict test.\n\nThe historical failure of police forces, prosecutors and some social care organizations to treat disability hate crime as a serious issue, an echo of previous failures over other forms of hate crime, particularly racial and LGBT-focused hate crimes, has led to chronic under-reporting. This under-reporting is both pre-emptive, through a widespread belief within the disabled community that they will not be treated seriously by law enforcement, and post-facto, where police forces investigate the crime as non hate-based and record it as such.\n\nThe UK Crown Prosecution Service's Annual Hate Crime Report, shows that 11,624 cases of racial or religious hate crime were prosecuted in England and Wales in 2009 with 10,690 leading to successful convictions. By contrast only 363 prosecutions and 299 convictions were for disability hate crimes.\n\nThe UK charity Scope has conducted research into the prevalence and experience of disability hate crime, summarizing their findings and those of other disability groups in the report \"Getting Away With Murder\" Katharine Quarmby, who wrote the report and was the first British journalist to investigate disability hate crime, has also written a book on the matter.\n\nThe treatment of disability hate crimes has been affected by the perception of disabled people as inherently vulnerable. This is a multi-faceted issue. Unfounded application of the 'vulnerable' label to a disabled person is considered a form of infantilization, a type of ableism in which disabled people are regarded as childlike, rather than as functioning adults. \n\nPerceptions of vulnerability can also lead to the perception that the victim is partially or entirely responsible for the crime. For example, a disabled person may be perceived as having been at fault due to being alone after dark, i.e. engaged in risky behaviour. This pattern of victim blaming has also appeared in the prosecution of rape and other sexual crimes.\n\nOn the other hand, it has been suggested that the vulnerability of victims is a key factor in all crimes. It has been applied to wide variety of scenarios, including people working at night or handling large amounts of money.\n\nThe Crown Prosecution Service has issued guidance to its prosecutors reminding them that 'vulnerable' should only be used as a description of a person within the precise legal meaning of the term - for instance, as defined in section 16 of the Youth Justice and Criminal Evidence Act 1999.\n\n"}
{"id": "14100238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14100238", "title": "Ernesto Balmaceda Bello", "text": "Ernesto Balmaceda Bello\n\nErnesto Balmaceda Bello (1887 – February 24, 1906) was a Chilean diplomat, who was murdered in Belgium in a celebrated case that came to define diplomatic privileges and immunities for the retinue and families of diplomatic staff. He was of Basque descent.\n\nHe was born in Santiago, the son of José Rafael Balmaceda Fernández and of Ana Bello Codesido. By birth, he was the son of a former Minister of the Interior, great-grandson of Andrés Bello and nephew to President José Manuel Balmaceda. After completing his secondary studies, he joined the Chilean Foreign Service and in 1905 was appointed secretary of the Chilean consulate to Belgium.\n\nHis immediate superior at the consulate in Brussels was charge d'affaires Don Luis Waddington, who had two children: Adelaida and Carlos. Soon after his arrival, Balmaceda started to court Adelaide and shortly thereafter, the parents of the bride-to-be found out that the young couple already had had sexual intercourse. They then demanded that 19-year-old Ernesto become engaged to Adelaide and \"redress the wrong done\" to her. He admitted his error and accepted the engagement for the time being.\n\nBalmaceda did not want to get married, so he wrote to his family to have himself immediately transferred to another embassy. His family connections managed his transfer to the embassy in the United States, but before he could depart the news leaked, and 16-year-old Carlos Waddington, brother of his bride-to-be started to practice target-shooting in the embassy gardens under his window. Ernesto Balmaceda panicked and on February 24, 1906, the day when the engagement was to be publicly announced at an embassy banquet, he hid in his rooming-house, with his friend Javier Rengifo. Carlos visited him and demanded that he honor his word. When Balmaceda refused, he shot him three times: once in the heart, once in the chest and once in the head.\nAfter the murder, Carlos Waddington fled to the Chilean embassy and claimed diplomatic immunity and extraterritoriality. The Belgian people were incensed at this behavior and surrounded the embassy, bent on capturing Waddington. The police had to establish a constant cordon in order to prevent the mob from violating the building and lynching him. On March 2, Chile waived its rights and ordered Waddington to be handed over to the Belgian police to stand trial.\n\nBy the time the trial happened, public opinion had shifted in Waddington's favor, and he was viewed as the avenger of his sister's honor. After a very short trial, he was acquitted on July 6, 1907.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56739568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56739568", "title": "Gargoyle (monster)", "text": "Gargoyle (monster)\n\nThe gargoyle is a fantasy and horror monster inspired by the gargoyle architectural element. While they were believed in mythology to frighten away evil spirits, the idea of such statues physically coming to life was a more recent notion. Like golems, they are usually made of magically animated or transformed stone, but have animal or chimera traits, and are often guardians of a place such as a cathedral or castle. They can also be depicted as vessels for demonic possession, or as a living species resembling statues.\n\nThe notion of gargoyles as supernatural constructs brought to life by evil was introduced in \"Maker of Gargoyles\" (1932) by Clark Ashton Smith, where Reynard, a medieval stonemason, unconsciously infuses his hate and lust into two gargoyles that attack the town of Vyones and later kill him when he attempts to destroy them. In the novelette \"Conjure Wife\" (1943) by Fritz Lieber, a dragon sculpture is animated by a witch and sent to kill an archaeology professor.\n\nSuch gargoyles also entered science fiction, such as in the \"Doctor Who\" episode \"The Daemons\" (1971).\n\nThe notion of gargoyles as demonic vessels was introduced in \"The Horn of Vapula\" (1932), where a demon familiar is bound into a horned and goatlike gargoyle. Gargoyles appear as horned canine statues in \"Ghostbusters\" (1984), where they are possessed by the demonic spirits of Zuul and Vinz Klortho. Gargoyles also appear as vessels for formerly human souls, such as the Marvel Comics hero Gargoyle, who later becomes able to transform back into a human.\n\nThe movie \"Gargoyles\" (1972) was the first to present gargoyles as a fictional race as opposed to solitary creatures, depicting them as being created by Satan to harry mankind. A species of Gargoyles also exists in \"Dungeons & Dragons\". Movies featuring races of gargoyle-like creatures include \"Gargoyle\" (2004) and \"Rise of the Gargoyles\" (2009), where the creatures can lay eggs and turn into statues to blend in.\n\nThe notion of a friendly gargoyle was created by the Disney show \"Gargoyles\" (1994–1997), in which gargoyles battle monsters to protect humanity. It originates from the folk belief of gargoyles as protectors. Friendly gargoyles also appear in the \"Discworld\" universe, such as Constable Downspout in \"Feet of Clay\" (1996), and in Disney's \"The Hunchback of Notre Dame\" (1996), as Hugo, Victor and Laverne, who embody Quasimodo's subconscious.\n\n"}
{"id": "11982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11982", "title": "Gemini 10", "text": "Gemini 10\n\nGemini 10 (officially Gemini X) was a 1966 manned spaceflight in NASA's Gemini program. It was the 8th manned Gemini flight, the 16th manned American flight and the 24th spaceflight of all time (includes X-15 flights over ).\n\n\nJim Lovell and Buzz Aldrin had originally been named the backup crew, but after Charles Bassett and Elliot See died in a T-38 crash, they were moved to the backup crew for Gemini 9. Alan Bean and Clifton Williams were moved up to the Gemini 10 flight.\n\n\n\n\nGemini 10 established that radiation at high altitude was not a problem. After docking with their Agena booster in low orbit, Young and Collins used it to climb temporarily to . After leaving the first Agena, they then met with the dead, drifting Agena left over from the aborted Gemini 8 flight—thus executing the program's first double rendezvous. With no electricity on board the second Agena, the rendezvous was accomplished with eyes only—no radar. After the rendezvous, Collins spacewalked over to the dormant Agena at the end of a tether, making Collins the first person to meet another spacecraft in orbit. He retrieved a cosmic dust-collecting panel from the side of the Agena, but was not able to take any pictures; in the complicated business of keeping his tether clear of the Gemini and Agena, his Hasselblad camera worked itself free and drifted away.\n\nGemini 10 was designed to achieve the objectives planned for the last two missions—rendezvous, docking and EVA. As well as this it was also hoped to dock with the Agena Target Vehicle from the Gemini 8 mission. This Agena's battery power had failed many months earlier and this would demonstrate the ability to rendezvous with a passive object. It would be also the first mission to fire the Agena's own rocket, allowing them to reach higher orbits.\n\nThe Agena launched perfectly for the second time, after problems had occurred with the targets for Gemini 6 and 9. Gemini 10 followed 100 minutes later and entered a orbit. They were behind the Agena. Two anomalous events occurred during the launch. At liftoff, a propellant fill umbilical became snared with its release lanyard. It ripped out of the LC-19 service tower and remained attached to the second stage during ascent. Tracking camera footage also showed that the first stage oxidizer tank dome ruptured after staging and released a cloud of nitrogen tetroxide. The telemetry package on the first stage had been disabled at staging, so visual evidence was the only data available. Film review of Titan II ICBM launches found at least seven other instances of post-staging tank rupture, most likely caused by flying debris, second stage engine exhaust, or structural bending. NASA finally decided that this phenomenon did not pose any safety risk to the astronauts and no corrective action had to be taken.\n\nCollins discovered that he was unable to use the sextant for navigation as it did not seem to work as expected. At first he mistook airglow as the real horizon when trying to make some fixes on stars. Then the image didn't seem right. He tried another instrument that they had on board but this was not practical to use as it had a very small field of view.\n\nThey had a backup in the form of the computers on the ground. They made their first burn to put them into a orbit. However Young didn't realize that during the next burn, he had the spacecraft turned slightly, which meant that they introduced an out-of-plane error. This meant two extra burns were necessary, and by the time they had docked with the Agena, 60% of their fuel had been consumed. It was decided to keep the Gemini docked to the Agena as long as possible, as this would mean that they could use the fuel on board the Agena for attitude control.\n\nThe first burn of the Agena engine lasted 80 seconds and put them in a orbit. This was the highest a person had ever been, although the record was soon surpassed by Gemini 11, which went to over . This burn was quite a ride for the crew. Because the Gemini and Agena docked nose-to-nose, the forces experienced were \"eyeballs out\" as opposed to \"eyeballs in\" for a launch from Earth. The crew took a couple of pictures when they reached apogee but were more interested in what was going on in the spacecraft — checking the systems and watching the radiation dosage meter.\n\nAfter this they had their sleep period which lasted for eight hours and then they were ready for another busy day. The crew's first order of business was to make a second burn with the Agena engine to put them into the same orbit as the Gemini 8 Agena. This was at 20:58 UTC on July 19 and lasted 78 seconds and took off their speed, putting them into a orbit. They made one more burn of the Agena to circularize their orbit to .\n\nIt was now time for the first of two EVAs on Gemini 10. This was to be just a standup EVA, where Collins would stand in the open hatch and take some photographs of stars as part of experiment S-13. They used a 70 mm general purpose camera to image the southern Milky Way in ultraviolet. After orbital sunrise, Collins then photographed a color plate on the side of the spacecraft (MSC-8) to see whether film reproduced colors accurately in space. They reentered the spacecraft six minutes early when they both found their eyes were irritated, which was caused by a minor leak of lithium hydroxide in the astronauts' oxygen supply. After repressurizing the cabin, they ran the oxygen at high rates and flushed the environment system.\n\nAfter the exercise of the EVA Young and Collins slept in their second 'night' in space. The next 'morning' they started preparing for the second rendezvous and another EVA.\n\nAfter undocking from their Agena, the crew thought they sighted the Gemini 8 Agena. It however turned out to be their own Agena away, while their target was away. It wasn't until just over away that they saw it as a faint star. After a few more correction burns, they were station-keeping away from the Gemini 8 Agena. They found the Agena to be very stable and in good condition.\n\nAt 48 hours and 41 minutes into the mission, the second EVA began. Collins' first task was to retrieve a Micrometeorite Collector (S-12) from the side of the spacecraft. This he accomplished with some difficulty (similar to that encountered by Eugene Cernan on Gemini 9A). However, the collector floated out of the cabin some time later during the EVA and was lost.\n\nHe next traveled over to the Agena and tried to grab onto the docking cone but found this impossible as it was smooth and had no grip. Collins used a nitrogen-propelled Hand-Held Maneuvering Unit (HHMU) to move himself towards the Gemini and then back to the Agena. This time he was able to grab hold of some wire bundles and retrieved the Micrometeorite Collector (S-10) from the Agena. He decided against replacing it as he could lose the one he had just retrieved.\n\nHis last task on this EVA was to test out the HHMU. However this stopped working and meant they finished the EVA after only 39 minutes. During this time, it took the crew eight minutes to close the hatch as they had some difficulty with the umbilical. It was jettisoned along with the chestpack used by Collins an hour later when they opened the hatch for the third and final time.\n\nThere were ten other experiments that the crew performed during the mission. Three were interested in radiation: MSC-3 was the Tri-Axis Magnetometer which measured levels in the South Atlantic Anomaly. There was also MSC-6, a beta spectrometer, which measured potential radiation doses for Apollo missions, and MSC-7, a bremsstrahlung spectrometer which detected radiation flux as a function of energy when the spacecraft passed through the South Atlantic Anomaly.\n\nS-26 investigated the ion and electron wake of the spacecraft. This provided limited results due to the lack of fuel for attitude control, but found that electron and ion temperatures were higher than expected and it registered shock effects during docking and undocking.\n\nThe S-5 and S-6 experiments were performed, which were previously carried on Gemini 9A; these were Synoptic Terrain and Synoptic Weather photography respectively. There was also S-1 which was intended to image the Zodiacal light. All of these experiments were of little use as the film used was only half as sensitive as Gemini 9A and the dirty windows lowered the transmission of light by a factor of six.\n\nThe crew also tried to perform D-5, a navigation experiment. They were only able to track five stars, with six needed for accurate measurements. The last experiment, D-10, was to investigate an ion-sensing attitude control system. This experiment measured the attitude of the spacecraft from the flow of ions and electrons around the spacecraft in orbit. The results from this experiment showed the system to be accurate and responsive.\n\nThe last day of the mission was short and retrofire came at 70 hours and 10 minutes into the mission. They landed only away from the intended landing site and were recovered by .\n\nThe Gemini 10 mission was supported by the following U.S. Department of Defense resources; 9,067 personnel, 78 aircraft and 13 ships.\n\nThe patch is simple in design but highly symbolic. The main feature is a large X with a Gemini and Agena orbiting around it. The two stars have a variety of meanings: the two rendezvous attempts, Castor and Pollux in Gemini or the two crew members. This is one of the few crew patches without the crew's name. It is able to be displayed \"upside down\" but is correctly shown with the spacecraft to the right. It was designed by Young's first wife, Barbara.\n\nFor many years the spacecraft was the centerpiece of a space exhibition at Norsk Teknisk Museum, Oslo, Norway. It was returned on request in 2002.\n\nThe spacecraft is currently on display at the Cosmosphere in Hutchinson, Kansas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47319254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47319254", "title": "Gertrude Bleiberg", "text": "Gertrude Bleiberg\n\nGertrude Bleiberg was an American visual artist. Encouraged by Jay DeFeo, who recognized her talent, Bleiberg started working as an artist at the age of 50. She earned a BFA and MFA degrees from the San Francisco Art Institute and developed a unique expressionist style, most notable for monumental depiction of the details of her domestic life: family, home, and friends. In a 25-year retrospective catalog of her work, Fred Martin, former Dean of the San Francisco Art Institute, noted that Bleiberg shows \"that the direct experience of seeing may itself be alive, vivid, and recreated to amuse, to baffle, to give-yes-joy.\"\n\nGertrude Bleiberg was born in New York City in 1921. In 1937 her family moved to Los Angeles. After marrying Donald J. Bleiberg, MD in 1942, she moved to Quincy, California, where Gertrude was a teacher and Donald was a family practitioner and operated the Plumas Industrial Hospital. The Bleibergs raised four daughters in Quincy.\n\nIn 1965, Bleiberg moved to Palo Alto, California, where Donald practiced emergency medicine with Kaiser Permanente in Santa Clara. The Bleibergs began to travel widely, and Gertrude journaled and sketched during the trips.\n\nIn 1969 Bleiberg enrolled in a continuing education art class, taught by Jay DeFeo, who recognized her innate talent and insisted that Bleiberg pursue professional art training. She went on to get a BFA (1975) and MFA (1977) degrees from the San Francisco Art Institute, where she was the oldest student among the young bohemian crowd. Her teachers were Manuel Neri, Elizabeth Murray, and Robert Colescott.\n\nBleiberg's prints and paintings have been exhibited in numerous museums and corporate collections, including the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, the Oakland Museum of California, the San Jose Museum of Art, Mills College Art Museum, the Brooklyn Museum, and the Rutgers Archives Collection. In 1996, a 25-year retrospective of her work was held at four galleries in the Bay Area, and in 1992, she was given the Women's Caucus for Art, South Bay Chapter, Lifetime Achievement award.\n\nBleiberg's drawings, prints, and paintings reference the self-taught artist practices. Eccentric line quality, active surfaces, and distorted figures playfully engage with the \"naïve\" and \"primitive\" styles. Yet her unique style is consciously cultivated through many years of outstanding professional training and studio work. Her style most closely compares in the history of post-war American art to that of Alice Neel.\n"}
{"id": "22040192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22040192", "title": "Gregory Duncan Cameron", "text": "Gregory Duncan Cameron\n\nGregory Duncan \"Don\" Cameron ( – July 11, 1952) was an American Thoroughbred horse trainer who trained Count Fleet, who won the U.S. Triple Crown in 1943.\n\nA native of California, Don Cameron served as an aviator in the United States Military during World War I. Working in the Thoroughbred horse racing industry, he trained for various owners including the prominent stables of Vera S. Bragg and J. Shirley Riley. However, he is best known for his time with Stoner Creek Stud training the horses for its owners, John & Fannie Hertz.\n\nBeginning in September 1940 Don Cameron trained Challedon for owner William L. Brann and won the Pimlico Special and Havre de Grace Handicap. He left Brann's employ in February 1941 and the horse's training was taken over by L. T. (Whitey) Whitehill.\n\nIn 1939, he hired jockey Johnny Longden to ride the horses owned by Vera S. Bragg and Fannie Hertz. With Longden riding Count Fleet in all his races, in 1942 Don Cameron conditioned Mrs. Hertz's two-year-old colt to U.S. Champion 2-Yr-Old Colt honors. The following year the colt won the Kentucky Derby, Preakness Stakes and Belmont Stakes to become only the 6th U.S. Triple Crown Champion in the history of the American Classic Races. Cameron would see his colt voted the 1943 American Horse of the Year, the most prestigious honor for Thoroughbred runners in the United States.\n\nAmong Cameron's other important horses was Vulcan's Forge, whose conditioning he took over in 1949 from U.S. Racing Hall of fame trainer, Syl Veitch. That year, Cameron saddled Vulcan's Forge to major wins in California's richest race, the Santa Anita Handicap and on the East Coast, the Suburban Handicap at New York's Belmont Park.\n\nIn 1950, Don Cameron's trainee, Miche, notably won the La Sorpresa Handicap at Santa Anita Park, ending Citation's sixteen-race win streak\n\nDon Cameron died on July 11, 1952 at age fifty-eight from a coronary thrombosis.\n\n"}
{"id": "6923735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6923735", "title": "Hans Hut", "text": "Hans Hut\n\nHans Hut (c. 14906 December 1527) was a very active Anabaptist in southern Germany and Austria.\n\nHut was born in Haina near Römhild, south Thuringia and became a travelling bookseller. Hut was for some years sacristan in Bibra to the knight Hans von Bibra (the brother of Bishop Lorenz von Bibra). He early came under the influence of Thomas Müntzer and, refusing to have his child baptized, was driven from the community in 1524. He took part in the decisive battle of Thuringia during the German Peasants' War on 15 May 1525 at Bad Frankenhausen. About a week later at Bibra, Hut preached \"subjects should murder all the authorities, for the opportune time has arrived.\" In his later years Hut distanced himself from Müntzer, saying that he (himself) \"had clearly erred\" and that he \"had not understood him (Müntzer).\" After the battle he managed to flee and traveled throughout the region.\n\nOn Pentecost 1526 he was baptized in Augsburg by Hans Denck, who had previously been baptized by Balthasar Hubmaier. Some feel that Hut and Denck taught Universal salvation, but others question whether this was so. He expected the 1528 coming of the Kingdom of God in the form of a violent apocalyptic imposition of the rule of Christ. Therefore he curtailed his extensive missionary activity to await Pentecost 1528 and be among the 144,000 elect. He baptised not only with water, but sealed the baptism with a sign of the cross on the forehead.\n\nHis mission activity extended from the Thuringian-French border in the north to Tyrol and Moravia and in his mission journeys he often seemed to seek former Peasants' War participants. His preaching was strongly influenced by Thomas Muentzer's mysticism. Gottfried Sebaß, an expert on Hut's biography and theology, calls him simply \"Muentzer's heir.\" \n\nIn May 1527, Hans Schlaffer and others joined Hut in a notable theological controversy taking place in Mikulov (Czech) (German), in Moravia, present day Czech Republic. Unfortunately, the exact subject of the debate has been lost to history, but it may have involved the question of whether or not a committed Christian could hold a job, e.g. as a soldier, in which he would be required to use violence. In August 1527 Hans Hut was a key participant at the Martyrs' Synod in Augsburg, a gathering of 60 Anabatists from the surrounding region, trying to come to a common understanding about various teachings. When the Augsburg town council learned of the meeting, they attempted to arrest the group. Hut was arrested along with the major Augsburg Anabaptists. Though the arrest did not end Hut's teaching, after a trial he and the others were sentenced to indefinite imprisonment. Hans Hut was tortured horribly, and accidentally died as a result of a fire which caused his asphyxiation in the Augsburg prison on 6 December 1527. The next day, the authorities sentenced his dead body to death and burned him.\n\nHut is the author of Ausbund no. 8, “O Thou Almighty Lord and God” (O Allmächtiger Herr Gott) which is still in the hymnal used today by North American Amish congregations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37595312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37595312", "title": "Henhenet", "text": "Henhenet\n\nHenhenet was an ancient Egyptian queen consort, a lower ranking wife of Pharaoh Mentuhotep II of the 11th dynasty. Her tomb (DBXI.11) and small decorated chapel were found in her husband's Deir el-Bahari temple complex, behind the main building, along with the tombs of five other ladies, Ashayet, Kawit, Kemsit, Sadeh and Mayet. Most of them were priestesses of Hathor, so it is possible that they were buried there as part of the goddess's cult, but it is also possible that they were the daughters of nobles the king wanted to keep an eye upon.\n\nUnlike the sarcophagi of the other queens, hers was not decorated, only a single line of inscription runs on both sides. Her mummy shows that she died in childbirth. Her mummy is now in the Egyptian Museum in Cairo, her sarcophagus is in New York City.\n\nHer titles were: King's Beloved Wife \"(ḥmt-nỉswt mrỉỉ.t=f ),\" King's Ornament \"(ẖkr.t-nỉswt),\" King's Sole Ornament \"(ẖkr.t-nỉswt wˁtỉ.t),\" Priestess of Hathor \"(ḥm.t-nṯr ḥwt-ḥrw).\"\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1181974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1181974", "title": "Home invasion", "text": "Home invasion\n\nIn some parts of the United States and some other English speaking countries home invasion is an illegal and usually forceful entry to an occupied, private dwelling with intent to commit a violent crime against the occupants, such as robbery, assault, rape, murder, or kidnapping.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, there is a defined crime of home invasion; in others, there is no crime defined as home invasion, but events that accompany the invasion are charged as crimes. Where home invasion is defined, the definition and punishments vary by jurisdiction. It is not a legally defined federal offense throughout the United States, but is in several states, such as Georgia, Michigan, Connecticut, Illinois, Florida, Louisiana, and in Las Vegas, Nevada. Home invasion laws also have been introduced in the South Carolina General Assembly and in the State of Maryland. On March 15, 2011, a bill making home invasion deaths a capital crime in New Hampshire passed the New Hampshire House without debate. Home invasion as such is not defined as a crime in most countries other than the US, with offenders being charged according to the actual crimes committed once inside the building, such as armed robbery, rape or murder. In English law, offenders who commit burglary while carrying a weapon can be convicted of the offence of aggravated burglary even if the weapon is not actually brandished or used.\n\nHome invasion differs from burglary in that its perpetrators have a violent intent apart from the unlawful entry itself, specific or general, much the same way as aggravated robbery—personally taking from someone by force—is differentiated from mere larceny (theft alone).\n\nFew statistics are available on the crime of home invasion as such, because it is not defined as a crime in its own right in most jurisdictions. Statistics about home invasion found on the Internet are often false or misleading. Persons arrested for what the police or media may refer to as \"home invasion\" are actually charged with crimes such as robbery, kidnapping, homicide, rape, or assault.\n\nThe first published use of the term \"home invasion\" recorded in the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" is an article in \"The Washington Post\" on 1 February 1912, with an article in the \"Los Angeles Times\" on 18 March 1925 clearly indicating the modern meaning.\n\n\"Home-invasion robberies\" were highlighted in June 1995, when the term appeared in the cover story of \"The FBI Law Enforcement Bulletin\" in an article written by Police Chief James T. Hurley of the Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, area, later republished on bNet, the online blog posted by Harvard Business School. Hurley posited that, at the time, the crime could be considered an alternative to bank or convenience store robberies, which were becoming more difficult to carry out due to technological advances in security. In the same article Hurley recommended educating the public about home invasion. Before the term \"home invasion\" came in use, the term \"hot burglary\" was often used in the literature. Early references also use \"burglary of occupied homes\" and \"burglar striking an occupied residence\".\n\nConnecticut Congressman Chris Murphy proposed in 2008 making home invasion a federal crime in the United States.\n\nThe \"Chauffeurs de la Drome\" (The Heaters of Drôme) were a gang of four men who carried out a series of attacks on remote dwellings in the Department of Drôme in south-west France between 1905 and 1908. They became notorious for roasting the feet of householders against the fireplace, to torture them into revealing the hiding places of valuables. Responsible for as many as 18 murders, three of the gang were guillotined on September 22, 1909. The fourth died on the penal colony at Devil's Island.\n\nOne well-known home invasion is the November 15, 1959, quadruple murder of the Clutter family by Richard \"Dick\" Hickock and Perry Edward Smith during a home-invasion robbery in rural Holcomb, Kansas. The murders were detailed in Truman Capote's \"nonfiction novel\" \"In Cold Blood\". However, the perpetrators were convicted of murder, not home invasion.\n\nMore recently, two paroled criminals were each charged with three counts of capital murder during a home invasion into the Petit family home in Cheshire, Connecticut, on July 23, 2007. During the invasion, the mother died of asphyxiation due to strangulation and the two daughters died of smoke inhalation after the suspects set the house on fire. The men were charged with first-degree sexual assault, murder of a kidnapped person, and murder of two or more people at the same time. The state attorney sought the death penalty against the suspects. The first defendant, Steven Hayes, was found guilty of 16 of 17 counts including capital murder on October 5, 2010, and on November 8, 2010, was sentenced to death. His co-defendant, Joshua Komisarjevsky, was convicted of all 17 counts against him in October 2011, and was also sentenced to death. Both men later had their sentences commuted to life without parole when Connecticut abolished the death penalty in 2015.\n\nAnother home invasion occurred on November 26, 2007, when Washington Redskins star Sean Taylor was murdered during an overnight home invasion of his suburban Miami home. Four defendants were charged with this crime.\n\nMany U.S. states (particularly those that endorse the Castle Doctrine) include defending oneself against forcible entry of one's home as part of their definition of justifiable homicide without any obligation to retreat.\n"}
{"id": "20017656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20017656", "title": "Human Brain Project", "text": "Human Brain Project\n\nThe Human Brain Project (HBP) is a large ten-year scientific research project, based on exascale supercomputers, that aims to build a collaborative ICT-based scientific research infrastructure to allow researchers across Europe to advance knowledge in the fields of neuroscience, computing, and brain-related medicine. The Project, which started on 1 October 2013, is a European Commission Future and Emerging Technologies Flagship. The HBP is coordinated by the École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne and is largely funded by the European Union. The project coordination office is in Geneva, Switzerland.\n\nFundamental to the HBP approach is to investigate the brain on different spatial and temporal scales (i.e. from the molecular to the large networks underlying higher cognitive processes, and from milliseconds to years). To achieve this goal, the HBP relies on the collaboration of scientists from diverse disciplines, including neuroscience, philosophy and computer science, to take advantage of the loop of experimental data, modelling theories and simulations. The idea is that empirical results are used to develop theories, which then foster modelling and simulations which result in predictions that are in turn verified by empirical results.\n\nThe primary objective of the HBP is to create an ICT-based research infrastructure for brain research, cognitive neuroscience and brain-inspired computing, which can be used by researchers world-wide.\n\nThe Project is divided into 12 Subprojects. Six of these develop ICT-based platforms (Subprojects 5-10), which consist of prototype hardware, software, databases, and programming interfaces. These tools are available to researchers worldwide via the HBP Collaboratory. Three Subprojects gather data on empirical neuroscience and establish theoretical foundations (Subprojects 1-4) and one is responsible for ethics and society (Subproject 12). Subproject 11 coordinates the project.\n\n\nThe HBP is coordinated by the École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne and involves researchers from over 117 partner institutions in 19 countries across Europe. Notable Partner Institutions include the University of Heidelberg, Forschungszentrum Jülich, and the University Hospital of Lausanne.\n\nThe scientific direction is provided by representatives from each of the HBP's Subprojects, which form the Science and Infrastructure Board (SIB). Katrin Amunts from Forschungszentrum Jülich is the Chair of the SIB. Alois Knoll from TU Munich is Vice Chair of the SIB for software. The Directorate steers the daily work of the HBP – it is led by Andreas Mortensen from EPFL. \n\nThe HBP is funded by the European Commission Directorate General for Communications Networks, Content and Technology (DG CONNECT) under the Horizon 2020 framework, an EU Research and Innovation funding programme. It was one of the two initial Future Emerging Technologies (FET) Flagship projects.\n\nThe project is split into five phases, each supplied with separate funding. The call for funding for the Project's initial two-and-a-half-year 'Ramp-Up Phase' of EUR 54 million closed in November 2013 and the results were announced in March 2014. Twenty-two projects from thirty-two organisations were selected for the initial funding of EUR 8.3 million. The Ramp-Up Phase ended on 31 March 2016. Funding is reassessed every two years using Specific Grant Agreements (SGA); the first of which began in April 2016 (ending in April 2018), and the second with a total EU funding of 88 Million Euro starting in April 2018 (ending in March 2020). The HBP's total costs are estimated at EUR 1.019 billion, of which EUR 500 million will be provided by the European Commission, EUR 500 million by national, public and private organisations, and EUR 19 million by the Core Project Ramp-Up Phase Partners.\n\nOne of the Project's primary hurdles is the unsystematic nature of the information collected from previous brain research. Neurological research data varies by biological organisation schemes, species studied, and by developmental stages, making it difficult to collectively use the data to replicate the brain in a model that acts as a single system.\n\nOther obstacles include engineering problems involving power consumption, memory, and storage. For example, detailed neuron representations are very computationally expensive, and whole brain simulation is at the leading edge of our computational capability.\n\nTechnologies generated by the HBP and other similar projects offer several possibilities to other fields of research. For instance, a brain model can be used to investigate signatures of disease in the brain and the impact of certain drugs, enabling the development of better diagnosis and treatment methods. Ultimately, these technologies will likely lead to more advanced medical options available to patients at a lower cost.\n\nIn addition, detailed brain simulation requires significant computing power, leading to developments in supercomputing and energy-efficient, brain-inspired computing techniques. Computational developments can be extended into areas such as data mining, telecommunications, appliances, and other industrial uses.\n\nThe long-term ethical consequences of the Project are also considered. The Project follows a policy of Responsible Research and Innovation, and its Ethics Advisory Board is responsible for monitoring the use of human volunteers, animal subjects, and the data collected. Implications on European society, industry, and economy are investigated by the HBP Ethics and Society Programme's Foresight Lab.\n\nAn open letter was sent on 7 July 2014 to the European Commission by 154 European researchers (750 signatures as of 3 September 2014) complaining of the HBP's overly narrow approach, and threatening to boycott the Project. Central to this controversy was an internal dispute about funding for cognitive scientists who study high level brain functions, such as thought and behaviour. However, the HBP stated that there is “no question that cognition and behaviour are vital to the HBP”, explaining that cognitive neuroscience research was repositioned in the Project to allow the Core Project to focus on building the Platforms. In addition, The Open Letter called on the EC to “reallocate the funding currently allocated to the HBP core and partnering projects to broad neuroscience-directed funding to meet the original goals of the HBP—understanding brain function and its effect on society”. In its response, the HBP said that “while [neuroscience research] generates a vast amount of valuable data, there is currently no technology for sharing, organising, analysing or integrating this information, beyond papers and even databases. The HBP will provide the critical missing layer to move towards a multi-level reconstruction and simulation of the brain”. It added that “cognitive and behavioural neuroscience will become the most significant component of neuroscience in HBP over the course of the Project. However, for this to happen the Platforms have to be in place first”.\n\nPeter Dayan, director of computational neuroscience at University College London, argued that the goal of a large-scale simulation of the brain is radically premature, and Geoffrey Hinton said that \"[t]he real problem with that project is they have no clue how to get a large system like that to learn\". Similar concerns as to the project's methodology were raised by Robert Epstein.\n\nThe HBP has said that its members share the uncertainty surrounding large-scale simulation, but that “reconstructing and simulating the human brain is a vision, a target; the benefits will come from the technology needed to get there. That technology, developed by the HBP, will benefit all of neuroscience as well as related fields”.\n\nIn 2015 the project underwent a review process and the three-member executive committee, led by Markram, was dissolved and replaced by a 22-member governing board.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25501047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25501047", "title": "Index of humanism articles", "text": "Index of humanism articles\n\nHumanism is an approach in study, philosophy, or practice that focuses on human values and concerns. Articles related to humanism include:\n\nA Secular Humanist Declaration -\nAmsterdam Declaration -\nAntihumanism\n\nBiosophy -\nBritish Humanist Association\n\nCamp Quest -\nCelebrancy -\nChristian humanism -\nCommittee for the Scientific Examination of Religion -\nContinuum of Humanist Education\n\nDemocratic transhumanism\n\nEvolutionary Humanism\n\nFellowship of Humanity v. County of Alameda -\nFreedom and Culture -\nFreethought\n\nHappy Human -\nHorapollo -\nHumanism -\nHumanism and Its Aspirations -\nHumanist baby naming -\nHumanist Manifesto -\nHumanist Manifesto I -\nHumanist Manifesto II -\nHumanist officiant -\nHumanistic capitalism -\nHumanistic education -\nHumanistic medicine -\nHumanistic naturalism -\nHumanLight\n\nIncarnational humanism -\nIntegral humanism (India) -\nIntegral humanism (Maritain) -\nInternational League of Humanists\n\nJohn Henry Morgan\n\nLogosophy\n\nMarxist humanism\n\nNontheist Friend\n\nOutline of humanism\n\nPhilosophy of environment -\nPost-theism -\nPosthuman -\nPosthumanism\n\nReligious humanism\n\nSea of Faith -\nSecular ethics -\nSecular humanism\n\nThe Associated Humans -\nUbuntu (philosophy)\n\nValue of life -\nVan Wyck Brooks\n\nWhat I Believe -\nWorld Humanist Day\n"}
{"id": "427408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427408", "title": "Internally displaced person", "text": "Internally displaced person\n\nAn internally displaced person (IDP) is someone who is forced to flee his or her home but who remains within his or her country's borders. They are often referred to as refugees, although they do not fall within the legal definitions of a refugee.\nAt the end of 2014, it was estimated there were 38.2 million IDPs worldwide, the highest level since 1989, the first year for which global statistics on IDPs are available. The countries with the largest IDP populations were Syria (7.6 million), Colombia (6 million), Iraq (3.6 million), the Democratic Republic of the Congo (2.8 million), Sudan (2.2 million), South Sudan (1.6 million), Pakistan (1.4 million), Nigeria (1.2 million) and Somalia (1.1 million).\n\nThe United Nations and UNHCR support monitoring and analysis of worldwide IDPs through the Geneva-based Internal Displacement Monitoring Centre.\n\nWhereas 'refugee' has an authoritative definition under the 1951 Refugee Convention, there is no universal legal definition of internally displaced persons (IDP); only a regional treaty for African countries (see Kampala Convention). However, a United Nations report, \"Guiding Principles on Internal Displacement\" uses the definition of: \n\"persons or groups of persons who have been forced or obliged to flee or to leave their homes or places of habitual residence, in particular as a result of or in order to avoid the effects of armed conflict, situations of generalized violence, violations of human rights or natural or human-made disasters, and who have not crossed an internationally recognized State border.\"\n\nWhile the above stresses two important elements of internal displacement (coercion and the domestic/internal movement), it is important to note that, rather than a strict definition, the Guiding Principles offer \"a descriptive identification of the category of persons whose needs are the concern of the Guiding Principles\". In this way, the document \"intentionally steers\ntoward flexibility rather than legal precision\" as the words \"in particular\" indicate that the list of reasons for displacement is not exhaustive. However, as Erin Mooney has pointed out, \"global statistics on internal displacement generally count only IDPs uprooted by conflict and human rights violations. Moreover, a recent study has recommended that the IDP concept should be defined even more narrowly, to be limited to persons displaced by violence.\" Thus, despite the non-exhaustive reasons of internal displacement, many consider IDPs as those who would be defined as refugees if they were to cross an international border, hence, the term refugees in all but name is often applied to IDPs.\n\nIt is very difficult to get accurate figures for internally displaced persons because populations aren't constant. IDPs may be returning home while others are fleeing, others may periodically return to IDP camps to take advantage of humanitarian aid. While the case of IDPs in large camps such as those in Darfur, western Sudan, are relatively well-reported, it is very difficult to assess those IDPs who flee to larger towns and cities. It is necessary in many instances to supplement official figures with additional information obtained from operational humanitarian organizations on the ground. Thus, the 24.5 million figure must be treated as an estimate. Additionally, most official figures only include those displaced by conflict or natural disasters. Development-induced IDPs often are not included in assessments. It has been estimated that between 70 and 80% of all IDPs are women and children.\n\n50% of internally displaced people and refugees were thought to be in urban areas in 2010, many of them in protracted displacement with little likelihood of ever returning home. A 2013 study found that these protracted urban displacements had not been given due weight by international aid and governance as historically they had focused on rural cam displacement responses. The study argues that this protracted urban displacement needs a fundamental change in the approach to those who are displaced and their host societies. They note that re-framing responses to urban displacement will also involve human rights and development actors and local and national governments. They call for a change in the narrative around the issue is needed to reflect ingenuity and fortitude displayed by displaced populations, the opportunities for self-sufficiency and safety represented by urban areas, and that the displaced can make a contribution to their host societies.\nAn updated country by country breakdown can be found online.\n\n\nThe problem of protecting and assisting IDPs is not a new issue. In international law it is the responsibility of the government concerned to provide assistance and protection for the IDPs in their country. However, as many of the displaced are a result of civil conflict and violence or where the authority of the central state is in doubt, there is no local authority willing to provide assistance and protection. It has been estimated that some 5 million IDPs in 11 countries are \"without any significant humanitarian assistance from their governments.\" Under these circumstances rehabilitation policies on humanitarian grounds should be aimed at reducing inequality of opportunity among these vulnerable groups by integrating them into local social services and allowing them access to jobs, education, and healthcare opportunities; otherwise new conflicts might break out.\n\nUnlike the case of refugees, there is no international humanitarian institution which has the overall responsibility of protecting and assisting the refugees as well as the internally displaced. A number of organizations have stepped into the breach in specific circumstances.\n\nThe Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) was mandated by General Assembly Resolution 428 (V) of 14 December 1950 to \"lead and coordinate international action for the worldwide protection\nof refugees and the resolution of refugee problems...guided by the 1951 United Nations Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees and its 1967 Protocol.\" The UNHCR has traditionally argued that it does not have a \"general competence for IDPs\" even though at least since 1972 it had relief and rehabillatation programs for those displaced within a country. However, in cases where there is a specific request by the UN Secretary General and with the consent of the State concerned it has been willing to respond by assisting IDPs in a given instance. In 2005 it was helping some 5.6 million IDPs (out of over 25 million), but only about 1.1 million in Africa. \nIn 2005, the UNHCR signed an agreement with other humanitarian agencies. \"Under this agreement, UNHCR will assume the lead responsibility for protection, emergency shelter and camp management for internally displaced people.\"\n\nThe International Committee of the Red Cross has a mandate of ensuring the application of International Humanitarian Law as it affects civilians in the midst of armed conflict. They have traditionally not distinguished between civilians who are internally displaced and those who remain in their homes. In a 2006 policy statement, the ICRC stated: \nThe ICRC's overall objective is to alleviate the suffering of people who are caught up in armed conflict and other situations of violence. To that end, the organization strives to provide effective and efficient assistance and protection for such persons, be they displaced or not, while taking into consideration the action of other humanitarian organizations.\nOn the basis of its long experience in different parts of the world, the ICRC has defined an operational approach towards the civilian population as a whole that is designed to meet the most urgent humanitarian needs of both displaced persons and local and host communities.\nHowever, its Director of Operations has earlier recognized that IDPs \"deprived of shelter and their habitual sources of food, water, medicine and money, they have different, and often more urgent, material needs.\"\n\nThe previous system set up internationally to address the needs of IDPs was referred to as the collaborative approach as the responsibility for protecting and assisting IDPs was shared among the UN agencies, i.e. UNHCR, Unicef, WFP, UNDP, Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, the International Organization for Migration IOM, the ICRC and International NGOs. Coordination is the responsibility of the UN Emergency Relief Coordinator and the Humanitarian Coordinator in the country concerned. They are assisted by the Inter-Agency Displacement Division, which was created in 2004 and is housed in the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA).\n\nThe original collaborative approach has come under increasing criticism. Roberta Cohen reports: \nNearly every UN and independent evaluation has found the collaborative approach deficient when it comes to IDPs. To begin with, there is no real focus of responsibility in the field for assisting and protecting...There is also no predictability of action, as the different agencies are free to pick and choose the situations in which they wish to become involved on the basis of their respective mandates, resources, and interests. In every new emergency, no one knows for sure which agency or combination thereof will become involved.In 2005 there was an attempt to fix the problem by giving sectoral responsibilities to different humanitarian agencies, most notably with the UNHCR taking on the responsibility for protection and the management of camps and emergency shelters. The \"Forced Migration Review\" stated that the \"abnegation of responsibility is possible because there is no formal responsibility apportioned to agencies under the Collaborative Response, and thus no accountability when agencies renege on their promises.\"\n\nThe cluster approach designates individual agencies as ‘sector leaders’ to coordinate operations in specific areas to try to plug those newly identified gaps. The cluster approach was conceived amid concerns about coordination and capacity that arose from the weak operational response to the crisis in Darfur in 2004 and 2005, and the critical findings of the Humanitarian Response Review (HRR) commissioned by the then ERC, Jan Egeland. Egeland called for strengthening leadership of the sectors, and introduced the concept of \"clusters\" at different levels (headquarters, regional, country and operational)’.\n\nThe cluster approach operates on the global and local levels. At the global level, the approach is meant to build up capacity in eleven key ‘gap’ areas by developing better surge capacity, ensuring consistent access to appropriately trained technical expertise and enhanced material stockpiles, and securing the increased engagement of all relevant humanitarian partners. At the field level, the cluster approach strengthens the coordination and response capacity by mobilizing clusters of humanitarian agencies (UN/Red Cross-Red Crescent/IOs/NGOs) to respond in particular sectors or areas of activity, each cluster having a clearly designated and accountable lead, as agreed by the HC and the Country Team. Designated lead agencies at the global level both participate directly in operations, but also coordinate with and oversee other organizations within their specific spheres, reporting the results up through a designated chain of command to the ERC at the summit. However, lead agencies are responsible as ‘providers of last resort’, which represents the commitment of cluster leads to do their utmost to ensure an adequate and appropriate response in their respective areas of responsibility. The cluster approach was part of a package of reforms accepted by the IASC in December 2005 and subsequently applied in eight chronic humanitarian crises and six sudden-onset emergencies. However, the reform was originally rolled out and evaluated in four countries: DRC, Liberia, Somalia and Uganda.\n\nThe clusters were originally concentrated on nine areas: \n\nIASC Principles deemed it unnecessary to apply the cluster approach to four sectors where no significant gaps were detected: a) food, led by WFP; b) refugees, led by UNHCR; c) education, led by UNICEF; and d) agriculture, led by FAO.\n\nThe original nine clusters were later expanded to include agriculture and education.\n\nUnlike the case of refugees, there is no international universal treaty which applies specifically to IDPs. Only a regional treaty for African countries has been established (see Kampala Convention). Some other countries have advocated re-thinking the definitions and protections for refugees to apply to IDPs, but so far no solid actions have come to fruition. Recognizing the gap, the UN Secretary-General, Boutros-Ghali appointed Francis Deng in 1992 as his representative for internally displaced persons. Besides acting as an advocate for IDPs, Deng set out in 1994, at the request of the UN General Assembly to examine and bring together existing international laws which relating to the protection of IDPs. The result of this work was the document, \"Guiding Principles on Internal Displacement\".\n\nThe Guiding Principles lay out the responsibilities of states before displacement – that is, to prevent displacement – during and after displacement. They have been endorsed by the UN General Assembly, the African Commission on Human and People's Rights (ACHPR) and by the signatories to the 2006 Pact on Security, Stability and Development in the Great Lakes Region, which include Sudan, DRC and Uganda.\n\nThe Guiding Principles, however, are non-binding. As Bahame Tom Nyanduga, Special Rapporteur on Refugees, IDPs and Asylum Seekers in Africa for the ACHPR has stated, \"the absence of a binding international legal regime on internal displacement is a grave lacuna in international law.\"\n\nIn September 2004 the Secretary-General of the UN showed the continuing concern of his office by appointing Walter Kälin as his Representative on the Human Rights of Internally Displaced Persons. Part of his mandate includes the promoting of the Guiding Principles.\n\nIn so-called \"post-conflict\" situations, there has traditionally been an emphasis in the international community to seek to return to the pre-war status-quo. However, opinions are gradually changing, because violent conflict destroys political, economic and social structures and new structures develop as a result, quite often irreversibly. Furthermore, returning to the pre-war status-quo may actually be undesirable if pre-war structures led to the conflict in the first place, or prevented its early resolution. IDPs' and refugees' right of return can represent one of the most complex aspects of this issue.\n\nNormally, pressure is applied by the international community and humanitarian organization to ensure displaced people are able to return to their areas of origin and the same property. The UN Principles for Housing and Property Restitution for Refugees and IDPs, otherwise known as the Pinheiro Principles, provides guidance on the management of the technical and legal aspects of housing, land and property (HLP) restitution. Restitution rights are of key importance to IDPs and refugees around the world, and important to try preventing aggressors benefiting from conflict. However, without a clear understanding of each local context, full restitution rights can be unworkable and fail to protect the people it is designed to protect for the following reasons, refugees and IDPs:\n\nResearchers at the Overseas Development Institute stress the need for humanitarian organization to develop a greater expertise in these issues, using experts who have a knowledge in both humanitarian and land and property issues and so provide better advice to state actors seeking to resolve these issues. The ODI calls on humanitarian agencies to develop an awareness of sustainable reintegration as part of their emphasis on returning IDPs and refugees home. Legal advice needs to be provided to all parties involved even if a framework is created in which to resolve these issues.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1608622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1608622", "title": "Isogamy", "text": "Isogamy\n\nIsogamy is a form of sexual reproduction that involves gametes of similar morphology (similar shape and size), differing in general only in allele expression in one or more mating-type regions. Because both gametes look alike, they cannot be classified as \"male\" or \"female\". Instead, organisms undergoing isogamy are said to have different mating types, most commonly noted as \"+\" and \"−\" strains, although in some species of Basidiomycota there are more than two mating types (designated by numbers or letters). In all cases, fertilization occurs when gametes of two different mating types fuse to form a zygote.\n\nIt appears that isogamy was the first stage of sexual reproduction. In several lineages (plants, animals), this form of reproduction independently evolved to anisogamous species with gametes of male and female types to oogamous species in which the female gamete is very much larger than the male and has no ability to move. There is a good argument that this pattern was driven by the physical constraints on the mechanisms by which two gametes get together as required for sexual reproduction.\n\nIn Ascomycetes, anisogamy (sexes) evolved from isogamy before mating types.\n\nThere are several types of isogamy. Both gametes may be flagellated and thus motile. This type occurs for example in algae such as some but not all species of \"Chlamydomonas\".\n\nIn another type, neither of the gametes is flagellated. This is the case for example in the mating of yeast. Yeast mating types are commonly noted as \"a\" and \"α\" (alpha) instead of \"+\" and \"-\".\n\nAnother, more complex form, is conjugation (similar to the exchange of genetic material through a bridge in bacterial conjugation, but involving reproduction). This occurs in some the green algae, the Zygnematophyceae, e.g., \"Spirogyra\". These algae grow as filaments of cells. When two filaments of opposing mating types come close together, the cells form conjugation tubes between the filaments. Once the tubes are formed, one cell balls up and crawls through the tube into the other cell to fuse with it, forming a zygote.\n\nIn ciliates, cell fission may follow self-fertilization (autogamy), or it may follow conjugation (exchange of nuclei).\n\nIn zygomycetes fungi, two hyphae of opposing mating types form special structures called gametangia where the hyphae touch. The gametangia then fuse into a zygosporangium. In other fungi, cells from two hyphae with opposing mating types fuse, but only the cytoplasm is fused (plasmogamy). The two nuclei do not fuse, leading to the formation of a dikaryon cell that gives rise to a mycelium consisting of dikaryons. Karyogamy (fusion of nuclei) then eventually occurs in sporangia, and leads to the formation of diploid cells (zygotes) that immediately undergo meiosis to form spores.\n\nIn many cases, isogamous fertilization is used by organisms that can also reproduce asexually through binary fission, budding, or asexual spore formation. The switch to sexual reproduction mode is often triggered by a change from favorable to unfavorable growing conditions. Fertilization often leads to the formation of a thick-walled zygotic resting spore that can withstand harsh environments and will germinate once growing conditions turn favorable again.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "66951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=66951", "title": "Józef Piłsudski", "text": "Józef Piłsudski\n\nJózef Klemens Piłsudski, (; 5 December 1867 – 12 May 1935) was a Polish statesman who served as the Chief of State (1918–22) and First Marshal of Poland (from 1920). He was considered the \"de facto\" leader (1926–35) of the Second Polish Republic as the Minister of Military Affairs. From World War I he had great power in Polish politics and was a distinguished figure on the international scene. He is viewed as a father of the Second Polish Republic re-established in 1918, 123 years after the 1795 Partitions of Poland by Austria, Prussia and Russia.\n\nDeeming himself a descendant of the culture and traditions of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, Piłsudski believed in a multi-ethnic Poland—\"a home of nations\" including indigenous ethnic and religious minorities that he hoped would establish a robust union with the independent states of Lithuania and Ukraine. His principal political antagonist, Roman Dmowski, leader of the National Democrat party, by contrast, called for a Poland limited to the pre-Partitions Polish Crown and based mainly on a homogeneous ethnically Polish population and Roman Catholic identity.\n\nEarly in his political career, Piłsudski became a leader of the Polish Socialist Party. Concluding that Poland's independence would have to be won militarily, he formed the Polish Legions. In 1914 he correctly predicted the outbreak of a major war, the Russian Empire's defeat by the Central Powers, and the Central Powers' defeat by the western Allies. When World War I began in 1914, Piłsudski's Legions fought alongside Austria-Hungary against Russia. In 1917, with Imperalist Russia faring poorly in the war, he withdrew his support for the Central Powers and was imprisoned in Magdeburg by the Germans.\n\nFrom November 1918, when Poland regained its independence, until 1922, Piłsudski was Poland's Chief of State. In 1919–21 he commanded Polish forces in six border wars that re-defined the country's borders. His forces seemed on the verge of defeat in the Polish–Soviet War when, in the August 1920 Battle of Warsaw, they threw back the invading Soviet Russian forces. In 1923, with the government dominated by his opponents, in particular the National Democrats, Piłsudski retired from active politics. Three years later he returned to power in the May 1926 \"coup d'état\" and became Poland's strongman. From then on until his death in 1935, he concerned himself primarily with military and foreign affairs.\n\nIn international affairs, Piłsudski pursued two complementary strategies meant to secure Poland's independence and to enhance her national security: \"Prometheism\", aimed at achieving the disintegration of Imperialist Russia and later the Soviet Union into their constituent nations; and the creation of an Intermarium federation of Central and Eastern European states lying between the Baltic and Black Seas; serving as a bridge between Germany and Russia. The proposed Intermarium's central purpose was to secure its peoples against Western and Eastern European imperialisms.\n\nHistorian Piotr Wandycz characterizes Piłsudski as \"an ardent Polish patriot who on occasion would castigate the Poles for their stupidity, cowardice, or servility. He described himself as a Polish-Lithuanian, and was stubborn and reserved, loath to show his emotions.\" Though some aspects of Piłsudski's administration remain controversial, he is highly esteemed in Polish memory and is regarded, together with his chief antagonist Roman Dmowski, as a founder of the modern independent Poland.\n\nHe was born 5 December 1867 to the noble family Piłsudski, at their manor named \"Zułów\", near the village of Zułowo (now Zalavas, Švenčionys district municipality, Lithuania), in the Russian Empire since 1795 on the territory of the former Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth. The estate was part of the dowry brought by his mother, Maria, a member of the wealthy Billewicz family. The Piłsudski family, although pauperized, cherished Polish patriotic traditions and has been characterized either as Polish or as Polonized-Lithuanian. Józef was the second son born to the family.\nJózef, when he attended the Russian \"gymnasium\" in \"Wilno\" (now Vilnius, Lithuania), was not an especially diligent student. One of the younger Polish students at this gymnasium was the future Russian communist leader Feliks Dzierżyński, who later would become Piłsudski's arch-enemy. Along with his brothers Bronisław, Adam and Jan, Józef was introduced by his mother Maria, \"née\" Billewicz, to Polish history and literature, which were suppressed by the Russian authorities. His father, likewise named Józef, had fought in the January 1863 Uprising against Russian rule of Poland.\nThe family resented the Russian government's Russification policies. Young Józef profoundly disliked having to attend Russian Orthodox Church service and left school with an aversion not only for the Russian Tsar and the Russian Empire, but for the culture, which he knew well.\n\nIn 1885 Piłsudski started medical studies at Kharkov University (now Kharkiv, Ukraine), where he became involved with \"Narodnaya Volya\", part of the Russian \"Narodniki\" revolutionary movement. In 1886, he was suspended for participating in student demonstrations. He was rejected by the University of Dorpat (now Tartu, Estonia), whose authorities had been informed of his political affiliation. On 22 March 1887, he was arrested by Tsarist authorities on a charge of plotting with Vilnius socialists to assassinate Tsar Alexander III. In fact, Piłsudski's main connection to the plot was the involvement of his elder brother Bronisław, who was sentenced to fifteen years of hard labor (\"katorga\") in eastern Siberia.\n\nJózef received a milder sentence: five years' exile in Siberia, first at Kirensk on the Lena River, then at Tunka. While being transported in a prisoners' convoy to Siberia, Piłsudski was held for several weeks at a prison in Irkutsk. There, he took part in what the authorities viewed as a revolt. After one of the inmates had insulted a guard and refused to apologize, he and other political prisoners were beaten by the guards for their defiance; Piłsudski lost two teeth and took part in a subsequent hunger strike until the authorities reinstated political prisoners' privileges that had been suspended after the incident. For his involvement, he was sentenced in 1888 to six months' imprisonment. He had to spend the first night of his incarceration in 40-degree-below-zero Siberian cold; this led to an illness that nearly killed him and to health problems that would plague him throughout life.\n\nDuring his years of exile in Siberia, Piłsudski met many \"Sybiraks\", including Bronisław Szwarce, who had almost become a leader of the January 1863 Uprising. He was allowed to work in an occupation of his own choosing, and earned his living tutoring local children in mathematics and foreign languages (he knew French, German and Lithuanian in addition to Russian and his native Polish; he would later learn English). Local officials decided that as a Polish noble he was not entitled to the 10-ruble pension received by most other exiles.\n\nIn 1892 Piłsudski returned from exile and settled in Adomavas Manor near Teneniai (now in Šilalė district). In 1893 he joined the Polish Socialist Party (\"PPS\") and helped organize its Lithuanian branch. Initially he sided with the Socialists' more radical wing, but despite the socialist movement's ostensible internationalism he remained a Polish nationalist. In 1894, as its chief editor, he began publishing an underground socialist newspaper, \"Robotnik\" (The Worker); he would also be one of its chief writers, and, initially, a typesetter. In 1895, he became a PPS leader and took the position that doctrinal issues were of minor importance and that socialist ideology should be merged with nationalist ideology, since that combination offered the greatest chance of restoring Polish independence.\n\nOn 15 July 1899, while an underground organizer, Piłsudski married a fellow socialist organizer, Maria Juszkiewiczowa, \"née\" Koplewska. According to his chief biographer, Wacław Jędrzejewicz, the marriage was less romantic than pragmatic in nature. Both were very involved in the socialist and independence movements. The printing press of \"Robotnik\" was in their apartment first in Wilno, then in Łódź. Having a pretext of regular family life made them less subject to suspicion. Russian law also protected a wife from prosecution for the illegal activities of her husband. The marriage deteriorated when, several years later, Piłsudski began an affair with a younger socialist, Aleksandra Szczerbińska. Maria died in 1921, and in October that year Piłsudski married Aleksandra. By then the couple had two daughters, Wanda and Jadwiga.\nIn February 1900, after Russian authorities found \"Robotnik\"'s underground printing press in Łódź, Piłsudski was imprisoned at the Warsaw Citadel. But, after feigning mental illness in May 1901, he managed to escape from a mental hospital at Saint Petersburg with the help of a Polish physician, Władysław Mazurkiewicz, and others, fleeing to Galicia, then part of Austria-Hungary and thence to Leytonstone in London where he stayed with Leon Wasilewski and his family.\n\nAt the time, when almost all parties in Russian Poland and Lithuania took a conciliatory position toward the Russian Empire and aimed at negotiating within it a limited autonomy for Poland, Piłsudski's PPS was the only political force that was prepared to fight the Empire for Polish independence and to resort to violence in order to achieve that goal.\n\nOn the outbreak of the Russo-Japanese War (1904–1905), in the summer of 1904, Piłsudski traveled to Tokyo, Japan, where he tried unsuccessfully to obtain that country's assistance for an uprising in Poland. He offered to supply Japan with intelligence in support of its war with Russia, and proposed the creation of a Polish Legion from Poles, conscripted into the Russian Army, who had been captured by Japan. He also suggested a \"Promethean\" project directed at breaking up the Russian Empire, a goal that he later continued to pursue. Meeting with Yamagata Aritomo, he suggested that starting a guerrilla war in Poland would distract Russia and asked for Japan to supply him with weapons. Although the Japanese diplomat Hayashi Tadasu supported the plan, the Japanese government, including Yamagata, was more skeptical.\n\nPiłsudski's arch-rival Roman Dmowski travelled to Japan, where he argued against Piłsudski's plan, endeavoring to discourage the Japanese government from supporting a Polish revolution, which Dmowski felt would then be doomed to failure. Dmowski, himself a Polish patriot, would remain Piłsudski's political archenemy to the end of Piłsudski's life. In the end, the Japanese offered Piłsudski much less than he had hoped for; he received Japan's help in purchasing weapons and ammunition for the PPS and its combat organisation, and the Japanese declined the Legion proposal.\n\nIn the fall of 1904, Piłsudski formed a paramilitary unit (the Combat Organization of the Polish Socialist Party, or \"bojówki\") aiming to create an armed resistance movement against the Russian authorities. The PPS organized an increasing numbers of demonstrations, mainly in Warsaw; on 28 October 1904, Russian Cossack cavalry attacked a demonstration, and in reprisal, during a demonstration on 13 November Piłsudski's paramilitary opened fire on Russian police and military. Initially concentrating their attention on spies and informers, in March 1905 the paramilitary began using bombs to assassinate selected Russian police officers.\n\nDuring the Russian Revolution of 1905, Piłsudski played a leading role in events in Congress Poland. In early 1905 he ordered the PPS to launch a general strike there; it involved some 400,000 workers and lasted two months until it was broken by the Russian authorities. In June 1905, Piłsudski sent paramilitary aid to an uprising in Łódź. During the \"June Days\", as the Łódź uprising came to be known, armed clashes broke out between Piłsudski's paramilitaries and gunmen loyal to Dmowski and his National Democrats. On 22 December 1905, Piłsudski called for all Polish workers to rise up; the call went largely unheeded.\n\nUnlike the National Democrats, Piłsudski instructed the PPS to boycott the elections to the First Duma. The decision and his resolve to try to win Polish independence through uprisings caused tensions within the PPS, and in November 1906, the party fractured over Piłsudski's leadership. His faction came to be called the \"Old Faction\" or \"Revolutionary Faction\" (\"\"Starzy\" or \"Frakcja Rewolucyjna\"\"), while their opponents were known as the \"Young Faction\", \"Moderate Faction\" or \"Left Wing\" (\"\"Młodzi\", \"Frakcja Umiarkowana\", \"Lewica\"\"). The \"Young\" sympathized with the Social Democrats of the Kingdom of Poland and Lithuania and believed that priority should be given to co-operation with Russian revolutionaries in toppling the tsarist regime and creating a socialist utopia that would facilitate negotiations for independence.\n\nPiłsudski and his supporters in the Revolutionary Faction continued to plot a revolution against Tsarist Russia that would secure Polish independence. By 1909, his faction would again be the majority in the PPS, and Piłsudski would remain one of the most important PPS leaders until the outbreak of the First World War.\n\nPiłsudski anticipated a coming European war and the need to organize the nucleus of a future Polish Army, which could help win Poland's independence from the three empires that had partitioned it out of political existence in the late 18th century. In 1906 Piłsudski, with the connivance of the Austrian authorities, founded a military school in Kraków for the training of paramilitary units. In 1906 alone, the 800-strong paramilitaries, operating in five-man teams in Congress Poland, killed 336 Russian officials; in subsequent years, the number of their casualties declined, and the paramilitaries' numbers increased to some 2,000 in 1908.\n\nThe paramilitaries also held up Russian currency transports that were leaving Polish territories. On the night of 26/27 September 1908, they robbed a Russian mail train that was carrying tax revenues from Warsaw to Saint Petersburg. Piłsudski, who took part in this Bezdany raid near Vilnius, used the funds thus \"expropriated\" to finance his secret military organization. The take from that single raid (200,812 rubles) was a fortune for the time and equaled the paramilitaries' entire takes of the two preceding years.\n\nIn 1908, Piłsudski transformed his paramilitary units into an \"Association for Active Struggle\" (\"Związek Walki Czynnej\", or \"ZWC\"), headed by three of his associates, Władysław Sikorski, Marian Kukiel and Kazimierz Sosnkowski. One of the \"ZWC\"'s main purposes was to train officers and noncommissioned officers for a future Polish Army.\n\nIn 1910, two legal paramilitary organizations were created in the Austrian zone of Poland, one in Lwów (now Lviv, Ukraine) and one in Kraków, to conduct training in military science. With the permission of the Austrian authorities, Piłsudski founded a series of \"sporting clubs\", then the Riflemen's Association, which served as cover to train a Polish military force. In 1912 Piłsudski (using the \"nom de guerre\", \"Mieczysław\") became commander-in-chief of a Riflemen's Association (\"Związek Strzelecki\") that grew by 1914 to 12,000 men. In 1914, Piłsudski declared, \"Only the sword now carries any weight in the balance for the destiny of a nation.\"\n\nAt a meeting in Paris in 1914, Piłsudski presciently declared that in the impending war, for Poland to regain independence, Russia must be beaten by the Central Powers (the Austro-Hungarian and German Empires), and the latter powers must in their turn be beaten by France, Britain and the United States. By contrast, Roman Dmowski, Piłsudski's rival, believed that the best way to achieve a unified and independent Poland was to support the Triple Entente against the Central Powers.\n\nAt the outbreak of the war on 3 August in Kraków, Piłsudski formed a small cadre military unit, the First Cadre Company, from members of the Riflemen's Association and Polish Rifle Squads. That same day, a cavalry unit under Władysław Belina-Prażmowski was sent to reconnoitre across the Russian border even before the official declaration of war between Austria-Hungary and Russia, which ensued on 6 August.\n\nPiłsudski's strategy was to send his forces north across the border into Russian Poland into an area that the Russian Army had evacuated in the hope of breaking through to Warsaw and sparking a national uprising. Using his limited forces in those early days, he backed his orders with the sanction of a fictitious \"National Government in Warsaw\", and he bent and stretched Austrian orders to the utmost, taking initiatives, moving forward and establishing Polish institutions in liberated towns while the Austrians saw his forces as good only for scouting or for supporting main Austrian formations. On 12 August 1914, Piłsudski's forces took the town of Kielce, of Kielce Governorate, but Piłsudski found the populace less supportive than he had expected.\n\nSoon afterward he officially established the Polish Legions, taking personal command of their First Brigade, which he would lead successfully into several victorious battles. He also secretly informed the British government in the fall of 1914 that his Legions would never fight France or Britain, only Russia.\n\nPiłsudski decreed that Legions' personnel were to be addressed by the French Revolution-inspired \"Citizen\" (\"Obywatel\"), and he was referred to as \"the Commandant\" (\"Komendant\"). Piłsudski enjoyed extreme respect and loyalty from his men, which would remain for years to come. The Polish Legions fought against Russia, at the side of the Central Powers, until 1917.\n\nSoon after forming the Legions, also in 1914, Piłsudski set up another organization, the Polish Military Organisation (\"Polska Organizacja Wojskowa\"), which served as a precursor Polish intelligence agency and was designed to perform espionage and sabotage missions.\n\nIn mid-1916, after the Battle of Kostiuchnówka (4–6 July 1916), in which the Polish Legions delayed a Russian offensive at a cost of over 2,000 casualties, Piłsudski demanded for the Central Powers to issue a guarantee of independence for Poland. He backed that demand with his own proffered resignation and that of many of the Legions' officers. On 5 November 1916 the Central Powers proclaimed the \"independence\" of Poland, hoping to increase the number of Polish troops that could be sent to the Eastern Front against Russia, thereby relieving German forces to bolster the Western Front.\n\nPiłsudski agreed to serve in the Regency Kingdom of Poland, created by the Central Powers, and acted as minister of war in the newly formed Polish Regency government; as such, he was responsible for the Polnische Wehrmacht. After the Russian Revolution in early 1917, and in view of the worsening situation of the Central Powers, Piłsudski took an increasingly uncompromising stance, insisting that his men no longer be treated as \"German colonial troops\" and but be used to fight only Russia. Anticipating the Central Powers' defeat in the war, he did not wish to be allied with the losing side. In the aftermath of a July 1917 \"Oath Crisis\" when Piłsudski forbade Polish soldiers to swear a loyalty oath to the Central Powers, he was arrested and imprisoned at Magdeburg; the Polish units were disbanded and the men were incorporated into the Austro-Hungarian Army while the Polish Military Organization began attacking German targets. Piłsudski's arrest greatly enhanced his reputation among Poles, many of whom began to see him as the most determined Polish leader, who was willing to take on all the partitioning powers.\n\nOn 8 November 1918, three days before the Armistice, Piłsudski and his colleague, Colonel Kazimierz Sosnkowski, were released by the Germans from Magdeburg and soon, like Vladimir Lenin before them, placed on a private train, bound for their national capital, as the collapsing Germans hoped that Piłsudski would create a force that was friendly to them.\n\nOn 11 November 1918 in Warsaw, Piłsudski was appointed Commander in Chief of Polish forces by the Regency Council and was entrusted with creating a national government for the newly independent country. On that very day, which would become Poland's Independence Day, he proclaimed an independent Polish state.\n\nThat week too, Piłsudski also negotiated the evacuation of the German garrison from Warsaw and of other German troops from the \"Ober Ost\" authority. Over 55,000 Germans would peacefully depart Poland, leaving their weapons to the Poles. In coming months, over 400,000 total would depart Polish territories.\n\nOn 14 November 1918, Piłsudski was asked to supervise provisionally the running of the country. On 22 November he officially received, from the new government of Jędrzej Moraczewski, the title of Provisional Chief of State (\"Naczelnik Państwa\") of renascent Poland.\n\nVarious Polish military organizations and provisional governments (the Regency Council in Warsaw; Ignacy Daszyński's government in Lublin; and the Polish Liquidation Committee in Kraków) bowed to Piłsudski, who set about forming a new coalition government. It was predominantly socialist and introduced many reforms long proclaimed as necessary by the Polish Socialist Party, such as the eight-hour day, free school education and women's suffrage, to avoid major unrest.\n\nHowever, Piłsudski believed that as head of state, he must be above partisan politics. The day after his arrival in Warsaw, he met with old colleagues from underground days, who addressed him socialist-style as \"Comrade\" (\"Towarzysz\") and asked for his support for their revolutionary policies; he refused it and answered: \"Comrades, I took the red tram of socialism to the stop called Independence, and that's where I got off. You may keep on to the final stop if you wish, but from now on let's address each other as 'Mister' [rather than continue using the socialist term of address, 'Comrade']!\" He declined to support any party and did not form any political organization of his own; instead, he advocated creating a coalition government. He also set about organizing a Polish army out of Polish veterans of the German, Russian and Austrian armies.\n\nIn the days immediately after the war, Piłsudski attempted to build a government in a shattered country. Much of former Russian Poland had been destroyed in the war, and systematic looting by the Germans had reduced the region's wealth by at least 10%. A British diplomat who visited Warsaw in January 1919 reported: \"I have nowhere seen anything like the evidences of extreme poverty and wretchedness that meet one's eye at almost every turn.\"\n\nIn addition, the country had to unify the disparate systems of law, economics, and administration in the former German, Austrian, and Russian sectors of Poland. There were nine legal systems, five currencies, and 66 types of rail systems (with 165 models of locomotives), which all had to be consolidated on an expedited basis.\nWacław Jędrzejewicz, in \"Piłsudski: A Life for Poland\", described Piłsudski as very deliberate in his decision-making: Piłsudski collected all available pertinent information, then took his time weighing it before arriving at a final decision. He drove himself hard, working all day and all night. He maintained a simple lifestyle, eating plain meals alone at an inexpensive restaurant. Though he was popular with much of the Polish public, his reputation as a loner (the result of many years' underground work) and as a man who distrusted almost everyone led to strained relations with other Polish politicians.\n\nPiłsudski and the first Polish government were distrusted in the West because he had co-operated with the Central Powers in 1914 to 1917 and because the governments of Daszyński and Jędrzej Moraczewski were primarily socialist. It was not until January 1919, when the world-famous pianist and composer Ignacy Jan Paderewski became Prime Minister of Poland and foreign minister of a new government, that it was recognized in the West.\n\nThat still left two separate governments claiming to be Poland's legitimate government: Piłsudski's in Warsaw and Dmowski's in Paris. To ensure that Poland had a single government and to avert civil war, Paderewski met with Dmowski and Piłsudski and persuaded them to join forces, with Piłsudski acting as Provisional Chief of State and Commander-in-Chief while Dmowski and Paderewski represented Poland at the Paris Peace Conference. Articles 87–93 of the Treaty of Versailles and the Little Treaty of Versailles, signed on 28 June 1919, formally established Poland as an independent and sovereign state in the international arena.\nPiłsudski often clashed with Dmowski for viewing the Poles as the dominant nationality in renascent Poland, and attempting to send the Blue Army to Poland through Danzig, Germany (now Gdańsk, Poland). On 5 January 1919, some of Dmowski's supporters (Marian Januszajtis-Żegota and Eustachy Sapieha) attempted a coup against Piłsudski and Prime Minister Moraczewski, but they failed.\n\nOn 20 February 1919, Piłsudski declared that he would return his powers to the newly elected Polish parliament (\"Sejm\"). However, the \"Sejm\" reinstated his office in the Little Constitution of 1919. The word \"Provisional\" was struck from his title, and Piłsudski would hold the office until 9 December 1922, when Gabriel Narutowicz was elected as the first president of Poland.\n\nPiłsudski's major foreign policy initiative was then a proposed federation (to be called \"Międzymorze\" (Polish for \"Between-Seas\"), and also known from the Latin as \"Intermarium\", stretching from the Baltic Sea to the Black Sea). It was to consist of Poland, the independent Baltic states, Belarus, and Ukraine, somewhat in emulation of the pre-partition Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth.\n\nPiłsudski's plan met with opposition from most of the prospective member states, which refused to relinquish any of their hard-won independence, as well as from the Allied powers, who thought it to be too bold a change to the existing balance-of-power structure. According to historian George Sanford, it was around 1920 that Piłsudski came to realize the infeasibility of that version of his Intermarium project.\n\nInstead of a Central and Eastern European alliance, there soon appeared a series of border conflicts, including the Polish-Ukrainian War (1918–19), the Polish-Lithuanian War (1920, culminating in Żeligowski's Mutiny), Polish-Czechoslovak border conflicts (beginning in 1918), and most notably the Polish-Soviet War (1919–21). Winston Churchill commented, \"The war of giants has ended, the wars of the pygmies begun.\"\n\nIn the aftermath of World War I, there was unrest on all Polish borders. Regarding Poland's future frontiers, Piłsudski said, \"All that we can gain in the west depends on the Entente—on the extent to which it may wish to squeeze Germany\". In the east, \"there are doors that open and close, and it depends on who forces them open and how far\". In 1918 in the east, Polish forces clashed with Ukrainian forces in the Polish–Ukrainian War, and Piłsudski's first orders as Commander-in-Chief of the Polish Army, on 12 November 1918, were to provide support for the Polish struggle in Lviv.\n\nPiłsudski was aware that the Bolsheviks were no friends of independent Poland and that war with them was inevitable. He viewed their advance west as a major problem, but he also considered the Bolsheviks less dangerous for Poland than their White opponents. The \"White Russians\", representatives of the old Russian Empire, were willing to accept only limited independence for Poland, probably within borders similar to those of the former Congress Poland, and they clearly objected to Polish control of Ukraine, which was crucial for Piłsudski's Intermarium project.\n\nThat was in contrast to the Bolsheviks, who proclaimed the partitions of Poland null and void. Piłsudski thus speculated that Poland would be better off with the Bolsheviks, alienated from the Western powers, than with a restored Russian Empire. By ignoring the strong pressures from the Entente Cordiale to join the attack on Lenin's struggling Bolshevik government, Piłsudski probably saved it in the summer and the fall of 1919.\nIn the wake of the Russian westward offensive of 1918–1919 and of a series of escalating battles that resulted in the Poles advancing eastward, on 21 April 1920, Marshal Piłsudski (as his rank had been since March 1920) signed a military alliance (the Treaty of Warsaw) with Ukrainian leader Symon Petliura to conduct joint operations against Soviet Russia. The goal of the Polish-Ukrainian Treaty was to establish an independent Ukraine and independent Poland in alliance, resembling that once existing within Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth In return, Petliura gave up Ukrainian claims to western lands of Galicia being a historical part of the Crown of Poland for which he was denounced by Ukrainian nationalist leaders.\n\nThe Polish and the Ukrainian Armies, under Piłsudski's command, launched a successful offensive against the Russian forces in Ukraine. On 7 May 1920, with remarkably little fighting, they captured Kiev.\n\nThe Bolshevik leadership framed the Polish actions as an invasion; in response, thousands of officers and deserters joined the Red Army, and thousands of civilians volunteered for war work. The Soviets launched a counter-offensive from Belarus and counterattacked in Ukraine, advancing into Poland in a drive toward Germany to encourage the Communist Party of Germany in its struggle to take power. Soviet confidence soared. The Soviets announced their plans to invade Western Europe; Soviet communist theoretician Nikolai Bukharin, writing in \"Pravda\", hoped for the resources to carry the campaign beyond Warsaw \"straight to London and Paris\". Soviet commander Mikhail Tukhachevsky's order of the day for 2 July 1920 read: \"To the West! Over the corpse of White Poland lies the road to worldwide conflagration. March upon Vilnius, Minsk, Warsaw!\" and \"onward to Berlin over the corpse of Poland!\"\n\nOn 1 July 1920, in view of the rapidly advancing Soviet offensive, Poland's parliament, the \"Sejm\", formed a Council for Defense of the Nation, chaired by Piłsudski, to provide expeditious decision-making as a temporary supplanting of the fractious Sejm. The National Democrats, however, contended that the string of Bolshevik victories had been Piłsudski's fault and demanded that for him to resign; some even accused him of treason. Their 19 July failure to carry a vote of no-confidence in the council led to Dmowski's withdrawal from it. On 12 August, Piłsudski tendered his resignation to Prime Minister Wincenty Witos, offering to be the scapegoat if the military solution failed, but Witos refused to accept his resignation. The Entente pressured Poland to surrender and enter into negotiations with the Bolsheviks. Piłsudski, however, was a staunch advocate of continuing the fight. As Norman Davies noted, at that time, especially abroad, \"Piłsudski had nothing of his later prestige. As a pre-war revolutionary he led his party to splits and quarrels; as a general in World War I he led his legions to internment and disbanding; as a marshal of the Polish Army he led it to Kiev and Vilnius, both now lost to Poles. He left the Polish Socialist Party and his Austro-German allies; refused to ally himself with Entente. In France and England he was considered a treasonous ally who leads Poland into destruction; in Russia he was seen as a false servant of the allies, who will lead imperialism to ruin. All – from Lenin to Lloyd George, from \"Pravda\" to \"Morning Star\" – considered him a military and political failure. In August 1920 all were in agreement that his catastrophic career will be crowned with the fall of Warsaw\".\n\nHowever, over the next few weeks, Poland's risky, unconventional strategy at the August 1920 Battle of Warsaw halted the Soviet advance. The Polish plan was developed by Piłsudski and others, including Tadeusz Rozwadowski. Later, some supporters of Piłsudski would seek to portray him as the sole author of the Polish strategy, but opponents would seek to minimize his role. In the West for a long time a myth persisted that it was General Maxime Weygand of the French Military Mission to Poland who had saved Poland; modern scholars, however, are in agreement that Weygand's role was minimal, at best.\n\nPiłsudski's plan called for Polish forces to withdraw across the Vistula River and to defend the bridgeheads at Warsaw and on the Wieprz River while some 25% of the available divisions concentrated to the south for a strategic counteroffensive. The plan next required two armies under General Józef Haller, facing Soviet frontal attack on Warsaw from the east, to hold their entrenched positions at all costs. At the same time, an army under General Władysław Sikorski was to strike north from outside Warsaw, cutting off Soviet forces that sought to envelope the Polish capital from that direction. The most important role, however, was assigned to a relatively small, approximately 20,000-man, newly assembled \"Reserve Army\" (also known as the \"Strike Group\", \"Grupa Uderzeniowa\"), comprising the most determined, battle-hardened Polish units that were commanded personally by Piłsudski. Their task was to spearhead a lightning northward offensive, from the Vistula-Wieprz triangle south of Warsaw, through a weak spot that had been identified by Polish intelligence between the Soviet Western and Southwestern Fronts. That offensive would separate the Soviet Western Front from its reserves and disorganize its movements. Eventually, the gap between Sikorski's army and the \"Strike Group\" would close near the East Prussian border, bringing about the destruction of the encircled Soviet forces.\n\nAt the time, Piłsudski's plan was strongly criticized, and only the desperate situation of the Polish forces persuaded other commanders to go along with it. Though based on reliable intelligence, including decrypted Soviet radio communications, the plan was termed \"amateurish\" by high-ranking army officers and military experts, who were quick to point out Piłsudski's lack of formal military education. When a copy of the plan fell into Soviet hands, Western Front commander Mikhail Tukhachevsky thought it to be a ruse and disregarded it. Days later, the Soviets paid dearly for that when, during the Battle of Warsaw, the overconfident Red Army suffered one of its greatest defeats ever.\n\nA National Democrat \"Sejm\" deputy, Stanisław Stroński, coined the phrase, \"Miracle at the Vistula\" (\"Cud nad Wisłą\"), to express his disapproval of Piłsudski's \"Ukrainian adventure\". Stroński's phrase was adopted as praise for Piłsudski by some patriotically- or piously-minded Poles, who were unaware of Stroński's ironic intent. A junior member of the French military mission, Charles de Gaulle, would later adopt some lessons from the Polish-Soviet War as well as from Piłsudski's career.\n\nIn February 1921, Piłsudski visited Paris, where, in negotiations with French President Alexandre Millerand, he laid the foundations for the Franco-Polish Military Alliance, which would be signed later that year. The Treaty of Riga, which ended the Polish-Soviet War in March 1921, partitioned Belarus and Ukraine between Poland and Russia. Piłsudski called the treaty an \"act of cowardice\". The treaty and his secret approval of General Lucjan Żeligowski's capture of Vilnius from the Lithuanians marked an end to this incarnation of Piłsudski's federalist Intermarium plan.\n\nOn 25 September 1921, when Piłsudski visited Lwów (now Lviv) for the opening of the first Eastern Trade Fair (\"Targi Wschodnie\"), he was the target of an unsuccessful assassination attempt by Stepan Fedak, acting on behalf of Ukrainian-independence organizations, including the Ukrainian Military Organization.\n\nAfter the Polish Constitution of March 1921 severely limited the powers of the presidency intentionally, to prevent a President Piłsudski from waging war. He declined to run for the office. On 9 December 1922, the Polish National Assembly elected Gabriel Narutowicz of Polish People's Party \"Wyzwolenie\"; his election, opposed by the right-wing parties, caused public unrest. On 14 December at the Belweder Palace, Piłsudski officially transferred his powers as Chief of State to his friend Narutowicz; the \"Naczelnik\" was replaced by the President.\n\nTwo days later, on 16 December 1922, Narutowicz was shot dead by a right-wing painter and art critic, Eligiusz Niewiadomski, who had originally wanted to kill Piłsudski but had changed his target, influenced by National Democrat anti-Narutowicz propaganda.\n\nFor Piłsudski, that was a major shock, which shook his belief that Poland could function as a democracy and made him support government by a strong hand. He became Chief of the General Staff and, together with Minister of Military Affairs Władysław Sikorski, managed to stabilize the situation, quelling unrest with a brief state of emergency.\n\nStanisław Wojciechowski of Polish People's Party \"Piast\" (PSL Piast), another of Piłsudski's old colleagues, was elected the new president, and Wincenty Witos, also of PSL Piast, became prime minister. However, the new government, pursuant to the Lanckorona Pact, an alliance among the centrist PSL Piast and the right-wing Popular National Union and Christian Democrat parties, contained right-wing enemies of Piłsudski, people whom he held morally responsible for Narutowicz's death and with whom he found it impossible to work. On 30 May 1923, Piłsudski resigned as Chief of the General Staff.\n\nAfter General Stanisław Szeptycki proposed that the military should be more closely supervised by civilian authorities, Piłsudski criticized that as an attempt to politicize the army, and on 28 June, he resigned his last political appointment. The same day, the Sejm's left-wing deputies voted a resolution, thanking him for his past work. Piłsudski went into retirement in Sulejówek, outside Warsaw, at his country manor, \"Milusin\", which had been presented to him by his former soldiers. There, he settled down to supporting his family by writing a series of political and military memoirs, including \"Rok 1920\" (The Year 1920).\nMeanwhile, Poland's economy was in shambles. Hyperinflation fueled public unrest, and the government was unable to find a quick solution to the mounting unemployment and economic crisis. Piłsudski's allies and supporters repeatedly asked him to return to politics, and he began to create a new power base, centred on former members of the Polish Legions and the Polish Military Organization as well as some left-wing and intelligentsia parties. In 1925, after several governments had resigned in short order and the political scene was becoming increasingly chaotic, Piłsudski became more and more critical of the government and eventually issued statements demanding the resignation of the Witos cabinet.\n\nWhen the Chjeno-Piast coalition, which Piłsudski had strongly criticized, formed a new government, on 12–14 May 1926, Piłsudski returned to power in a \"coup d'état\" (the May Coup), supported by the Polish Socialist Party, Liberation, the Peasant Party and even the Polish Communist Party. Piłsudski had hoped for a bloodless coup, but the government had refused to back down; 215 soldiers and 164 civilians had been killed, and over 900 persons had been wounded.\n\nOn 31 May, the \"Sejm\" elected Piłsudski president of the Republic. Piłsudski, however, aware of the presidency's limited powers, refused the office. Another of his old friends, Ignacy Mościcki, was elected in his stead. Mościcki then appointed Piłsudski as Minister of Military Affairs (defence minister), a post that he would hold for the rest of his life in 11 successive governments, two of which he headed himself from 1926 to 1928 and for a brief period in 1930. He also served as General Inspector of the Armed Forces, and Chairman of The War Council.\n\nPiłsudski had no plans for major reforms; he quickly distanced himself from the most radical of his left-wing supporters and declared that his coup was to be a \"revolution without revolutionary consequences\". His goals were to stabilize the country; reduce the influence of political parties, which he blamed for corruption and inefficiency; and strengthen the army. His role in the Polish government over the subsequent years has been called a dictatorship or a \"quasi-dictatorship\".<\n\nIn internal politics, Piłsudski's coup entailed sweeping limitations on parliamentary government, as his Sanation regime (1926–1939), at times employing authoritarian methods, sought to \"restore public life to moral health\". From 1928, the Sanation authorities were represented in the sphere of practical politics by the Non-partisan Bloc for Cooperation with the Government (\"BBWR\"). Popular support and an effective propaganda apparatus allowed Piłsudski to maintain his authoritarian powers, which could not be overruled either by the president, who was appointed by Piłsudski, or by the \"Sejm\". The powers of the \"Sejm\" were curtailed by constitutional amendments that were introduced soon after the coup, on 2 August 1926. From 1926 to 1930, Piłsudski relied chiefly on propaganda to weaken the influence of opposition leaders.\n\nThe culmination of his dictatorial and supralegal policies came in the 1930s, with the imprisonment and trial of certain political opponents (the Brest trials) on the eve of the 1930 legislative elections and with the 1934 establishment of a prison for political prisoners at Bereza Kartuska (today Biaroza), where some prisoners were brutally mistreated. After the \"BBWR\"s 1930 victory, Piłsudski left most internal matters in the hands of his \"colonels\" while he concentrated on military and foreign affairs. He came under considerable criticism for his treatment of political opponents and their 1930 arrest and imprisonment was internationally condemned and damaged Poland's reputation.\n\nPiłsudski became increasingly disillusioned with democracy in Poland. His intemperate public utterances (he called the \"Sejm\" a \"prostitute\") and his sending of 90 armed officers into the \"Sejm\" building in response to an impending vote of no-confidence caused concern in contemporary and modern observers who have seen his actions as setting precedents for authoritarian responses to political challenges.\n\nOne of his main goals was to transform the parliamentary system into a presidential system; however, he opposed the introduction of totalitarianism. The adoption of a new Polish constitution in April 1935 that was tailored by Piłsudski's supporters to his specifications, providing for a strong presidency, came too late for Piłsudski to seek that office; but the April Constitution would serve Poland up to the outbreak of World War II and would carry its Government in Exile until the end of the war and beyond.\n\nNonetheless, Piłsudski's government depended more on his charismatic authority than on rational-legal authority. None of his followers could claim to be his legitimate heir, and after his death, the Sanation structure would quickly fracture, returning Poland to the pre-Piłsudski era of parliamentary political contention.\n\nPiłsudski's regime began a period of national stabilization and of improvement in the situation of ethnic minorities, which formed about a third of the Second Republic's population. Piłsudski replaced the National Democrats' \"ethnic-assimilation\" with a \"state-assimilation\" policy: citizens were judged not by their ethnicity but by their loyalty to the state. Widely recognized for his opposition to the National Democrats' anti-Semitic policies, he extended his policy of \"state-assimilation\" to Polish Jews. The years 1926 to 1935 and Piłsudski himself were favorably viewed by many Polish Jews whose situation improved especially under Piłsudski-appointed Prime Minister Kazimierz Bartel. Many Jews saw Piłsudski as their only hope for restraining antisemitic currents in Poland and for maintaining public order; he was seen as a guarantor of stability and a friend of the Jewish people, who voted for him and actively participated in his political bloc. Piłsudski's death in 1935 brought a deterioration in the quality of life of Poland's Jews.\n\nDuring the 1930s, a combination of developments, from the Great Depression to the vicious spiral of \"OUN\" terrorist attacks and government pacifications, caused government relations with the national minorities to deteriorate. Unrest among national minorities was also related to foreign policy. Troubles followed repressions in the largely-Ukrainian eastern Galicia, where nearly 1,800 persons were arrested. Tension also arose between the government and Poland's German minority, particularly in Upper Silesia. The government did not yield to calls for antisemitic measures; but the Jews (8.6% of Poland's population) grew discontented for economic reasons that were connected with the Depression. Overall, by the end of Piłsudski's life, his government's relations with national minorities were increasingly problematic.\n\nIn the military sphere, Piłsudski, who had shown himself an accomplished military strategist in engineering the \"Miracle at the Vistula\", has been criticized by some for subsequently concentrating on personnel management and allegedly neglecting modernization of military strategy and equipment. His experiences in the Polish-Soviet War (1919–1921) may have led him to overestimate the importance of cavalry and to neglect the development of armoured and air forces. Others, however, contend that, particularly from the late 1920s, he had supported the development of these military branches. The limitations on Poland's military modernization in this period may have been less doctrinal than financial.\n\nUnder Piłsudski, Poland maintained good relations with neighboring Romania, Hungary and Latvia. Relations were strained with Czechoslovakia, however, and even worse with Lithuania. Relations with Weimar Germany and the Soviet Union varied over time, but during Piłsudski's tenure could, for the most part, be described as neutral.\n\nPiłsudski's Promethean programme to weaken the Russian Empire and its successor state, the Soviet Union, by supporting nationalist independence movements of major non-Russian peoples dwelling in Russia and the Soviet Union, was co-ordinated from 1927 to the 1939 outbreak of World War II in Europe by the military intelligence officer, Edmund Charaszkiewicz. In the interbellum, but it yielded few tangible results.\n\nPiłsudski sought to maintain his country's independence in the international arena. Assisted by his protégé, Foreign Minister Józef Beck, he sought support for Poland in alliances with western powers, such as France and the United Kingdom, and with friendly, if less powerful, neighbours, such as Romania and Hungary.\n\nA supporter of the Franco-Polish Military Alliance and the Polish-Romanian Alliance, part of the Little Entente, Piłsudski was disappointed by the French and British policy of appeasement evident in their signing of the Locarno Treaties. Piłsudski, therefore, aimed also to maintain good relations with the Soviet Union and Germany and so Poland signed non-aggression pacts with both of its powerful neighbours: the 1932 Soviet-Polish Non-Aggression Pact and the 1934 German-Polish Non-Aggression Pact. Both were meant to strengthen Poland's position in the eyes of its allies and neighbours.\n\nPiłsudski himself was acutely aware of the shakiness of the pacts, and he commented: \"Having these pacts, we are straddling two stools. This cannot last long. We have to know from which stool we will tumble first, and when that will be\". Critics of the two non-aggression pacts have accused Piłsudski of underestimating Hitler's aggressiveness, of giving Germany time to rearm and of allowing Stalin to eliminate opposition, primarily in Ukraine, which had been supported by Piłsudski's Promethean program.\n\nAfter Adolf Hitler came to power in Germany in January 1933, Piłsudski is rumored to have proposed to France a preventive war against Germany. It has been argued that Piłsudski may have been sounding out France regarding possible joint military action against Germany. Lack of French interest may have been a reason for Poland signing the Non-Aggression Pact of January 1934. Little evidence has, however, been found in French or Polish diplomatic archives that such a proposal for preventive war was ever actually advanced.\n\nHitler repeatedly suggested a German-Polish alliance against the Soviet Union, but Piłsudski declined, instead seeking precious time to prepare for potential war with either Germany or the Soviet Union. Just before his death, Piłsudski told Józef Beck that it must be Poland's policy to maintain neutral relations with Germany, keep up the Polish alliance with France and improve relations with the United Kingdom.\n\nPiłsudski's religious views are a matter of debate. He was baptised on 15 December 1867 in the church of Powiewiórka (then Sventsiany deanery) by the priest, Thomas Valinsky. His godparents were Joseph and Constance Martsinkovsky Ragalskaya.\n\nHe periodically changed his religious affiliation from Roman Catholicism to Lutheranism, and back.\n\nOn 15 July 1899, at the village of Paproć Duża, near Łomża, he married Maria Piłsudska, a divorcée. As the Catholic Church did not recognise divorces, she and Piłsudski had converted to Protestantism.\n\nPilsudski later returned to the Catholic Church in order to marry Aleksandra Piłsudska. Piłsudski and Aleksandra could not get married as Piłsudski's wife Maria refused to divorce him. It was only after Maria's death in 1921 that they were married, on 25 October of the same year.\n\nAfter the May coup, Piłsudski considered himself a Roman Catholic, but he did not appear to be religious and often used religion as a public tool. Piłsudski was quoted saying:\nAfter the coup and Piłsudski's reign as dictator, he often clashed with Catholic leaders but nevertheless enjoyed a good working relationship with Cardinal Aleksander Kakowski, who subsequently led his funeral mass. In 1937, Archbishop of Kraków, Adam Stefan Sapieha, ordered to move Piłsudski's coffin from St. Leonard's Crypt to Royal Tombs at Wawel. This led to open conflict with the church and the government, which threatened to step down.\n\nBy 1935, unbeknownst to the public, Piłsudski had for several years been in declining health. On 12 May 1935, he died of liver cancer at Warsaw's Belweder Palace. The celebration of his life began spontaneously within half an hour of the announcement of his death. It was led by military personnel — former Legionnaires, members of the Polish Military Organization, veterans of the wars of 1919–21 — and by his political collaborators from his service as Chief of State and, later, Prime Minister and Inspector-General.\n\nThe Polish Communist Party immediately attacked Piłsudski as a fascist and capitalist, though fascists themselves did not see him as one of them. Other opponents of the Sanation regime, however, were more civil; socialists (such as Ignacy Daszyński and Tomasz Arciszewski) and Christian Democrats (represented by Ignacy Paderewski, Stanisław Wojciechowski and Władysław Grabski) expressed condolences. The peasant parties split in their reactions (Wincenty Witos voicing criticism of Piłsudski, but Maciej Rataj and Stanisław Thugutt being supportive), while Roman Dmowski's National Democrats expressed a toned-down criticism.\n\nCondolences were expressed by the clergy, including Poland's Primate August Hlond, as well as by Pope Pius XI, who called himself a \"personal friend\" of Piłsudski. Notable appreciation for Piłsudski was expressed by Poland's ethnic and religious minorities. Eastern Orthodox, Greek Orthodox, Protestant, Judaic and Islamic organizations expressed condolences, praising Piłsudski for his policies of religious tolerance. His death was a shock to members of the Jewish minority, who even years after remembered him as a \"very good man\" who \"protected Jews\".\n\nMainstream organizations of ethnic minorities similarly expressed their support for his policies of ethnic tolerance, though he was criticized by, in addition to the Polish communists, the Jewish Labour Bund, and Ukrainian, German and Lithuanian extremists.\n\nOn the international scene, Pope Pius XI held a special ceremony 18 May in the Holy See, a commemoration was conducted at League of Nations Geneva headquarters, and dozens of messages of condolence arrived in Poland from heads of state across the world, including Germany's Adolf Hitler, the Soviet Union's Joseph Stalin, Italy's Benito Mussolini and King Victor Emmanuel III, France's Albert Lebrun and Pierre-Étienne Flandin, Austria's Wilhelm Miklas, Japan's Emperor Hirohito, and Britain's King George V.\n\nCeremonies, masses and an enormous funeral were held; a funeral train toured Poland. A series of postcards, stamps and postmarks was also released. In 1937, after a two-year display at St. Leonard's Crypt in Kraków's Wawel Cathedral, Piłsudski's body was laid to rest in the Cathedral's Crypt under the Silver Bells, except for his brain, which he had willed for study to Stefan Batory University, and his heart, which was interred in his mother's grave at Vilnius' Rasos Cemetery, where it remains.\n\nThe 1937 relocation of his remains, made by his long-standing adversary Adam Sapieha, then Archbishop of Krakow, incited widespread protests that included calls for Sapieha's removal.\n\nOn 13 May 1935, in accordance with Piłsudski's last wishes, Edward Rydz-Śmigły was named by Poland's president and government to be Inspector-General of the Polish Armed Forces, and on 10 November 1936, he was elevated to Marshal of Poland. Rydz was now one of the most powerful people in Poland, the \"second man in the state after the President\". While many saw Rydz-Śmigły as a successor to Piłsudski, he never became as influential.\n\nAs the Polish government became increasingly authoritarian and conservative, the Rydz-Śmigły faction was opposed by that of the more moderate Ignacy Mościcki, who remained President. After 1938 Rydz-Śmigły reconciled with the President, but the ruling group remained divided into the \"President's Men\", mostly civilians (the \"Castle Group\", after the President's official residence, Warsaw's Royal Castle), and the \"Marshal's Men\" (\"Piłsudski's Colonels\"), professional military officers and old comrades-in-arms of Piłsudski's. After the German invasion of Poland in 1939, some of this political division would survive within the Polish government in exile.\nPiłsudski had given Poland something akin to what Henryk Sienkiewicz's Onufry Zagłoba had mused about: a Polish Oliver Cromwell. As such, the Marshal had inevitably drawn both intense loyalty and intense vilification.\n\nIn 1935, at Piłsudski's funeral, President Mościcki eulogized the Marshal: \"He was the king of our hearts and the sovereign of our will. During a half-century of his life's travails, he captured heart after heart, soul after soul, until he had drawn the whole of Poland within the purple of his royal spirit ... He gave Poland freedom, boundaries, power and respect.\"\n\nAfter World War II, little of Piłsudski's thought influenced the policies of the Polish People's Republic, a \"de facto\" satellite of the Soviet Union. In particular, Poland was in no position to resume Piłsudski's effort to build an \"Intermarium\" federation of Poland and some of its neighbors; and a \"Promethean\" endeavor to \"break up the Russian state into its main constituents and emancipate the countries that have been forcibly incorporated into that empire.\"\n\nFor a decade after World War II, Piłsudski was either ignored or condemned by Poland's communist government, along with the entire interwar Second Polish Republic. This began to change, however, particularly after de-Stalinization and the Polish October (1956), and historiography in Poland gradually moved away from a purely negative view of Piłsudski toward a more balanced and neutral assessment.\n\nAfter the fall of communism and the 1991 disintegration of the Soviet Union, Piłsudski once again came to be publicly acknowledged as a Polish national hero. On the sixtieth anniversary of his death, on 12 May 1995, Poland's \"Sejm\" adopted a resolution: \"Józef Piłsudski will remain, in our nation's memory, the founder of its independence and the victorious leader who fended off a foreign assault that threatened the whole of Europe and its civilization. Józef Piłsudski served his country well and has entered our history forever.\"\n\nWhile some of Piłsudski's political moves remain controversial—particularly the May 1926 Coup d'état, the Brest trials (1931–32), the 1934 establishment of the Bereza Kartuska detention camp, and successive Polish governments' failure to formulate consistent, constructive policies toward the national minorities—Piłsudski continues to be viewed by most Poles as a providential figure in the country's 20th-century history.\nPiłsudski has lent his name to several military units, including the 1st Legions Infantry Division and armored train No. 51 (\"I Marszałek\"—\"the First Marshal\").\n\nAlso named for Piłsudski have been Piłsudski's Mound, one of four man-made mounds in Kraków; the Józef Piłsudski Institute of America, a New York City research center and museum on the modern history of Poland; the Józef Piłsudski University of Physical Education in Warsaw; a passenger ship, ; a gunboat, ; and a racehorse, \"Pilsudski\". Virtually every Polish city has its \"Piłsudski Street\". (There are, by contrast, few if any streets named after Piłsudski's National-Democrat arch-rival, Roman Dmowski, even in Dmowski's old Greater-Poland political stronghold). There are statues of Piłsudski in many Polish cities; the highest density of such statuary memorials is found in Warsaw, which has three in little more than a mile between the Belweder Palace, Piłsudski's residence, and Piłsudski Square.\n\nHe was the subject of paintings by renowned artists such as Jacek Malczewski (1916) and Wojciech Kossak (leaning on his sword, 1928; and astride his horse, \"Kasztanka\", 1928), as well as of numerous caricatures and photos.\n\nPiłsudski has been a character in numerous works of fiction, such as the 1922 novel \"Generał Barcz\" (General Barcz) by Juliusz Kaden-Bandrowski and the 2007 novel \"Ice\" (\"Lód\") by Jacek Dukaj. Poland's National Library lists over 500 publications related to Piłsudski; the U.S. Library of Congress, over 300. Piłsudski's life was the subject of a 2001 Polish television documentary, \"Marszałek Piłsudski\", directed by Andrzej Trzos-Rastawiecki.\n\nBoth daughters of Marshal Piłsudski returned to Poland in 1990, after the fall of the Communist system. Jadwiga Piłsudska's daughter Joanna Jaraczewska returned to Poland in 1979. She married a Polish \"Solidarity\" activist Janusz Onyszkiewicz in a political prison in 1983. Both were very involved in the Polish struggle against communism between 1979 and 1989.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\na. Józef Klemens Piłsudski was commonly referred to without his middle name, as \"Józef Piłsudski\". A few English sources translate his first name as \"Joseph\", but this is not the common practice. As a young man, he belonged to underground organizations and used various pseudonyms, including \"\"Wiktor\", \"Mieczysław\" and \"Ziuk\" (the latter also being his family nickname). Later he was often affectionately called \"Dziadek\"\" (\"Grandpa\" or \"the Old Man\") and \"Marszałek\" (\"the Marshal\"). His ex-soldiers from the Legions also referred to him as \"Komendant\" (\"the Commandant\").\n\nb. Piłsudski sometimes spoke of being a Lithuanian of Polish culture. For several centuries, declaring both Lithuanian and Polish identity was not self-excluding alike in case of master of Polish poetry Adam Mickiewicz. The question of Piłsudski's ethnicity and culture simply does not match contemporary templates, the more the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth which Piłsudski regarded as his spiritual \"patria\" failed to reborn itself and finally ceased to exist in the wake of arising modern nationalisms. Timothy Snyder, who calls him a \"Polish-Lithuanian\", notes that Piłsudski did not think in terms of 20th-century nationalisms and ethnicities; he considered himself \"both\" a Pole and a Lithuanian, and his homeland was the historic Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36343950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36343950", "title": "Knut Aalefjær", "text": "Knut Aalefjær\n\nKnut Aalefjær (born 21 December 1974 in Bærum) is a Norwegian jazz musician (drums and percussion), and composer, educated at the Norwegian Academy of Music. He is known as an eminent drummer who provide significant contributions in the \"Helge Lien Trio\", the band \"Geir Lysne Listening Ensemble\", with the vocalist Live Maria Roggen, the band of Kristin Asbjørnsen (known from \"Dadafon\", \"Krøyt\", and \"Nymark Collective\"), and many others.\n\nDuring his studies at Norwegian Academy of Music he and fellow students Lars Andreas Haug (tuba) and Vidar Saether (saxophone?, established the band \"Moment's Notice\" with a release in 2003. He was also a member of orchestras Musikkflekken Workshop Big Band and ImproVice Versa, and on releases with the Geir Lysnes Listening Ensemble, as well as in pianist Helge Lien's Trio with Frode Berg (bass), on six recordings. With \"Great Curves\", he also released the recording \"Rotoscope\" (2001), were the band members are Christine Sandtorv (vocal), Rune Brøndbo (keyboards), Lars Horntveth (saxophon), Anders Mjøs (keyboards), and Rob Waring (percussion).\n\nAalefjær is a commonly used musician in Oslo's musical life. With Elin Rosseland he has played on the record (\"Moment\", 2004), in addition (in a trio with Staffan Svensson trumpet) performed composition of Eyvind Skeie and Geir Lysne for dissolution of the union (with Sweden) Grenseløse Gud in collaboration with Forsvarets musikk, Oslo Chorale Selskap and Den norske kirke (2005). He has also played with Det Norske Blåseensemble at the Big Band Festival 2004.\n\nAalefjær has also been involved in studio album \"Blood Inside\" to the Norwegian band Ulver in 2005.\n\nFrom 2010 he joined the trio with Ruth Wilhelmine Meyer (vocals), and Elfi Sverdrup (vocals) and Lars Andreas Haug (tuba), and the band became a quartet. They released the album \"Akku 5\" (2011).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "297147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=297147", "title": "Legitime", "text": "Legitime\n\nIn Civil law and Roman law, the legitime (\"legitima portio\"), also known as a forced share or legal right share, of a decedent's estate is that portion of the estate from which he cannot disinherit his children, or his parents, without sufficient legal cause. The word comes from French \"héritier légitime\", meaning \"rightful heir.\"\n\nThe legitime is usually a statutory fraction of the decedent's gross estate and passes as joint property to the decedent's next-of-kin in equal undivided shares. The legitime cannot be infringed in order to give a spouse or other beneficiary a greater share of the estate. Therefore, when a decedent has children and leaves a will, it is unlawful for the testator to override the legitime by special gift which exhausts the estate or by designating his spouse or other person as sole beneficiary. This is known as \"preterition\" when arising by omission and \"disinheritance\" when heirs are expressly deprived.\n\nIn English common law, there is no legitime; the Statute of Wills, 32 Hen. VIII c. 1, provided for the unfettered distribution of a decedent's entire estate; a testator is entitled to disinherit any and all of his children, for any reason and for no reason. Most jurisdictions in the United States have enacted statutes that prohibit a testator from disinheriting a spouse, or provided that in the event of such a will the spouse may elect to \"take against the will\" and claim a statutory share of a decedent's estate. This is done as a substitute for the common law rights of dower and curtesy.\n\nIn Brazil, the descendants (alternatively, the parents or grandparents) and the spouse must receive at least 50% of it among themselves.\n\nIn the Czech Republic, the nearest descendants can require 1/4 of their intestacy portion if they are of age or 3/4 of their intestacy portion if they are under age. (If a child of the deceased died before him, his children can claim forced share instead of him etc.)\n\nIn Louisiana, until the passing of Act No. 788 of 1989, the situation was different. Formerly, in Louisiana the legitime operated to prevent a parent from wholly disinheriting his children, who were and are still called forced heirs. If the decedent left issue in the form of one child, that issue must receive at least 25% of the decedent's estate. If there were two or more children, they must receive at least 50% of it among themselves. Similar provisions prevented a decedent with living parents from disinheriting them.\n\nPost-1989 Louisiana law provides for a forced share only if the decedent's children are under 24 years of age, or are permanently unable to take care of themselves, referred to as interdicted or subject to interdiction. Otherwise, a decedent's issue may be wholly disinherited. This change is essentially the importation of the common law doctrine of freedom of testation, but stops short of fully abolishing forced heirship because that is expressly forbidden by Louisiana Constitution Article XII, Section 5.\n\nIn Scotland, \"legitim\" is the right of the issue (including adult issue) to not less than a defined share of the value of the moveable estate of the deceased. The share is one half, if the deceased left no relict (widow or widower), or one third if there was a relict. For example, if a testator has two children, and no spouse, and in her/his testament leaves everything to one of them, the other would be entitled to half of the legitim fund, which means a half of a half of the total net value of the moveable estate. (Or half of a third if there were a spouse.) Legitim is also called the bairn’s pairt or part of gear (Scots \"bairn\" ‘child’).\n\nUnder the Civil Code of the Philippines, the legitime is given to and/or shared by the compulsory heirs of the decedent. This is also called \"compulsory succession\" because the law has reserved it for the compulsory heirs and thus, the testator has no power to give it away to anyone of his liking. The compulsory heirs include the children, or descendants (this class includes the adopted children and legitimated children), legitimate or illegitimate; in their default, the legitimate parents, or legitimate ascendants; the surviving spouse, which concurs with the foregoing classes; and the illegitimate parents.\n\nThus, legitimate children always get one half of the estate, divided equally between them. The surviving spouse gets a share equal to that of a legitimate child, except when there is only one legitimate child, in which case he or she gets one fourth of the estate. Illegitimate children get one half of the share given to legitimate children.\n\nThe legitimate parents or ascendants are excluded by legitimate children or descendants, but not by illegitimate children, and get one half of the estate in such cases. The surviving spouse or illegitimate children, when either concur with the parents or ascendants, get one fourth of the estate. If all concur, the share of the surviving spouse is reduced to one eighth of the estate.\n\nThe surviving spouse gets one half of the estate when there are no other heirs, and in certain cases, when the marriage is \"in articulo mortis\", he or she gets one third. The surviving spouse also gets one third of the estate when concurring with illegitimate children, who also get the same share. However, the surviving spouse gets one fourth when concurring with illegitimate parents, who also get one fourth of the estate.\n\nThe illegitimate children, in default of everyone, gets one half of the estate. The illegitimate parents, who are excluded by everyone except the surviving spouse, also get one half in default of everyone.\n\n"}
{"id": "31914566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31914566", "title": "List of rampage killers (Europe)", "text": "List of rampage killers (Europe)\n\nThis section of the list of rampage killers contains those cases that occurred in Europe.\n\nThis section does not include school massacres; workplace killings; religious, political, or racial crimes; or mass murders that took place primarily in a domestic environment, like familicides, which are covered in their own categories. Cases where the primary motive for the murders was to facilitate or cover up another felony, like robbery, are also excluded.\n\nA rampage killer has been defined as follows:\n\nThis list should contain every case with at least one of the following features:\n\nAll abbreviations used in the table are explained below.\nW – A basic description of the weapons used in the murders\n"}
{"id": "980162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=980162", "title": "Mark Bell (British musician)", "text": "Mark Bell (British musician)\n\nMark Bell was a British DJ and record producer of house music who, as well as being a member of the pioneering electronic music group LFO on Warp Records, collaborated with a wide range of artists such as Björk and Depeche Mode, for whom he took on the production duties for the entire \"Exciter\" album.\n\nMark Bell's early musical influences came from three specific sources. One was an art teacher in school who taught art and played music by Jean-Michel Jarre and Kraftwerk, an older sister who played disco, funk music and electro from her bedroom, and a music shop in Leeds Mark described as having \"arcade games like \"Tempest\" and \"Defender\"\" and that it would play \"loads of early hip hop like Schoolly D. I remember feeling this is mine and my friend’s place\". Bell first experiments in electronic music involved him making a deal with his girlfriend's father who made his musical ballads listened to despite disliking them. Bell convinced him he required a real backing band and purchased his drum machine from him.\n\nBell went to college to study photography and graphic design, where he met the West Yorkshire DJ Martin Williams and Gez Varley. With money from Varley's grandmother, Bell had access to a bedroom full of equipment. In 1988, Varley, Bell and Martin began to play gigs as LFO, named after the low frequency oscillator, a function of many synthesizers.\n\nLFO were performing at the Warehouse, a club in Leeds, when Steve Beckett and Rob Mitchell arrived and noticed the positive reception club goers had to the track \"LFO\". Beckett and Mitchell were the original creators of the Warp record label, but had not officially created the label yet. Despite this, Beckett and Mitchell offered to put out a 12-inch single, which was expected to sell about 2,000 copies but eventually became a Top 20 hit. The label released their first studio album \"Frequencies\" in 1991. Following the album's release, Bell continued to release singles for other independent labels such as Carl Craig's Planet E. \n\nWhile working on a follow-up album, Bell began his partnership with Björk before the release of her album \"Post\". Bell gave her a cassette of LFO demo material allowing her to use what she wanted for a future release. Björk chose a track that would later become her song \"I Go Humble\", which would show up again in instrumental form as \"Shove Piggy Shove\" on the LFO album \"Advance\" in 1996. When asked about the long gap between records, Bell stated “It’s not intentional...It's easy doing your first album as you have all the first part of your life to express. The second one is harder unless you're going to repeat yourself... and repetition bores me a bit, it's a complete wasted opportunity to be creative.\" After the release of \"Advance\", Bell and Varley parted ways, with Bell retaining rights to the name LFO. Bell continued to perform under the LFO moniker.\n\nBjörk had initially wanted Bell to contribute to her albums \"Debut\" and \"Post\" and started a real collaboration with her on the album \"Homogenic\". Bell was credited for the majority of the album's production, including the songs \"Pluto\", \"Alarm Call\", and the bassline in \"Jóga\". Björk stated that she \"trusts and respects what [Bell] does for me. If I were to say who has influenced me most it would be Stockhausen, Kraftwerk, Brian Eno and Mark Bell\".\n\nBell would also produce Björk's \"Selmasongs\", the soundtrack to the Lars von Trier's film \"Dancer in the Dark\". Outside Björk, Bell produced Depeche Mode's \"Exciter\". Bell commented on working the group was fun but strange, stating he had listened to the group when he was 12 and found the band asking him for days off or \"what they should eat\".\n\nBell released one more LFO album, \"Sheath\" in 2003. Other collaborations included contributing to Deltron 3030's self-titled album and working on every Björk album until \"Biophilia\" in 2011.\n\nBell died on 8 October 2014 at the age of 43. His death was reported on 13 October 2014 due to complications after surgery.\n\nas Speed Jack\n\nas Clark\n\nas Fawn\n\nas Counterpoint\n\n"}
{"id": "34904513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34904513", "title": "Mithrobuzanes", "text": "Mithrobuzanes\n\nMithrobuzanes (; d. 334 BC) was a Persian governor (satrap) of Cappadocia in the 4th century BC, during the reign of Darius III. He was probably a son of Ariarathes. As a Persian military commander he was killed at the Battle of Granicus fighting Alexander the Great.\n\nThe victorious Alexander appointed Abistamenes in his place.\n\n"}
{"id": "12312133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12312133", "title": "Morphogenetic field", "text": "Morphogenetic field\n\nIn the developmental biology of the early twentieth century, a morphogenetic field is a group of cells able to respond to discrete, localized biochemical signals leading to the development of specific morphological structures or organs. The spatial and temporal extents of the embryonic field are dynamic, and within the field is a collection of interacting cells out of which a particular organ is formed. As a group, the cells within a given morphogenetic field are constrained: thus, cells in a \"limb field\" will become a limb tissue, those in a \"cardiac field\" will become heart tissue. However, specific cellular programming of individual cells in a field is flexible: an individual cell in a cardiac field can be redirected via cell-to-cell signaling to replace specific damaged or missing cells. Imaginal discs in insect larvae are examples of morphogenetic fields.\n\nThe concept of the morphogenetic field, fundamental in the early twentieth century to the study of embryological development, was first introduced in 1910 by Alexander G. Gurwitsch. Experimental support was provided by Ross Granville Harrison's experiments transplanting fragments of a newt embryo into different locations.\n\nHarrison was able to identify \"fields\" of cells producing organs such as limbs, tail and gills and to show that these fields could be fragmented or have undifferentiated cells added and a complete normal final structure would still result. It was thus considered that it was the \"field\" of cells, rather than individual cells, that were patterned for subsequent development of particular organs. The field concept was developed further by Harrison's friend Hans Spemann, and then by Paul Weiss and others. The concept was similar to the meaning of the term entelechy of vitalists like Hans Adolf Eduard Driesch (1867-1941).\n\nBy the 1930s, however, the work of geneticists, especially Thomas Hunt Morgan, revealed the importance of chromosomes and genes for controlling development, and the rise of the new synthesis in evolutionary biology lessened the perceived importance of the field hypothesis. Morgan was a particularly harsh critic of fields since the gene and the field were perceived as competitors for recognition as the basic unit of ontogeny. With the discovery and mapping of master control genes, such as the homeobox genes the pre-eminence of genes seemed assured. But in the late twentieth century the field concept was \"rediscovered\" as a useful part of developmental biology. It was found, for example, that different mutations could cause the same malformations, suggesting that the mutations were affecting a complex of structures as a unit, a unit that might correspond to the field of early 20th century embryology.\n\nScott Gilbert proposed that the morphogenetic field is a middle ground between genes and evolution. That is, genes act upon fields, which then act upon the developing organism. Jessica Bolker described morphogenetic fields not merely as incipient structures or organs, but as dynamic entities with their own localized development processes, which are central to the emerging field of Evolutionary developmental biology (\"evo-devo\"). In 2005, Sean B. Carroll and colleagues mention morphogenetic fields only as a concept proposed by early embryologists to explain the finding that a forelimb bud could be transplanted and still give rise to a forelimb; they define \"field\" simply as \"a discrete region\" in an embryo.\n\n"}
{"id": "32552015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32552015", "title": "Murder of Cassie Jo Stoddart", "text": "Murder of Cassie Jo Stoddart\n\nBrian Lee Draper (born 1990) and Torey Michael Adamcik (born June 14, 1990) are American men who were convicted in Idaho as juveniles of the first-degree murder of Cassie Jo Stoddart on September 22, 2006. Each aged 16 when they committed the crime against their high school classmate, they received mandatory sentences of life in prison without parole.\n\nIn \"Montgomery v. Louisiana\" (2016), the United States Supreme Court ruled that such a mandatory sentence for a crime committed as a juvenile was unconstitutional, even for a person who committed murder, as it did not allow for what is scientifically known about juvenile brains, nor for mitigating factors, and cut off the possibility of reform that might lead to freedom. It directed state courts to review sentences for all persons covered under this ruling, an estimated 1200 to 1800 nationwide. Draper and Adamcik are among the inmates whose sentences will be reviewed by state courts under this ruling.\n\nBecause of their youth and the premeditation of their crime, the two young men have been studied during and since their convictions. They were covered in the 2013 documentary \"Lost for Life\", about persons convicted and imprisoned as juveniles who are serving mandatory life sentences. Their stories have been featured on BBC Three's \"Teen Killers: Life without Parole\", originally shown on April 21, 2014. The pair of young men were also featured on Investigation Discovery's \"Your Worst Nightmare\", which premiered in October 2014. Adamcik was interviewed as a potential suspect in a separate murder as part of the \"Cold Justice\" episode, \"Still of the Night\", which aired in January 2015. They are featured in a documentary entitled \"CopyCat Killers\", shown on the Reelz channel. They are also featured on Investigation Discovery's \"Murder Among Friends,\" which premiered July 20, 2017 and \"Unmasked\" which premiered on October 15, 2018.\n\nBrian Draper spent most of his childhood living with his family in the state of Utah. He and his family moved to Pocatello, Idaho. He attended local schools and met Idaho native Torey Adamcik when they were both students at Pocatello High School. They were both interested in films and started recording their own.\n\nCassie Jo Stoddart (December 21, 1989 - September 22, 2006) also attended Pocatello High School; she and both boys were juniors. Cassie had an older sister and a younger brother.\n\nOn the night of September 22, 2006, Cassie was house sitting for Allison and Frank Contreras, her aunt and uncle who had moved from California with their children the year before. She was visited that evening by her boyfriend Matt. Later, Draper and Adamcik showed up. The four decided to watch a film together, until Draper and Adamcik said they would prefer to go to a film at a local movie theater, leaving Cassie and Matt at the home. At one point when Cassie and Matt were alone, the electricity suddenly went out. It was restored before Matt was picked up by his mother.\n\nUnbeknownst to Stoddart or Matt, Draper and Adamcik had returned to the house before Matt's departure (roughly 10:30 p.m). Having never gone to the theater, they were both lying in wait. They later confessed to purposely shutting the power off. They entered the house and stabbed Stoddart approximately 30 times; 12 wounds were potentially fatal.\n\nThrough the investigation of the murder, police found that Draper and Adamcik had recorded their plan to murder Stoddart in advance on video tape while they were at school. This was shown at their trials.\n\nDraper and Adamcik were arrested on September 27, 2006 and charged with first degree murder and conspiracy to commit first-degree murder. During the interrogations, each teen blamed the other. Draper claimed he was in the same room with Adamcik when Stoddart was killed but denied stabbing her. He later admitted stabbing her allegedly under commands from Adamcik. He led the investigators to Black Rock Canyon where the youths had disposed of the clothing, masks, and knives they used for the murder.\n\nAt the trial, the prosecution revealed that Draper had said he was inspired by Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold, who committed the Columbine High School massacre. Later Adamcik was said to have been inspired by the \"Scream\" horror film franchise. On April 17, 2007, Draper was found guilty. Adamcik's trial started on May 31, 2007; he was convicted on June 8, 2007. On August 21, 2007, based on being convicted of first-degree murder, each received a mandatory sentence of life in prison without the possibility for parole, and 30 years-to-life for being convicted of conspiracy to commit murder.\nAdamcik and Draper are both serving their time at Idaho State Correctional Institution. It is located in unincorporated Ada County, Idaho, near Kuna.\n\nTheir attorneys filed separate appeals at the State Supreme Court in September 2010 for Adamcik and in April 2011 for Draper. Draper was seeking to have his conviction vacated or to be given a limited life sentence that would allow for his release on parole (if approved) after 30 years. The first appeal for both Adamcik and Draper was denied in a 3/2 decision. The high court vacated Draper's conviction on conspiracy to commit first-degree murder, saying that jurors were given erroneous instructions on that charge, but they affirmed his conviction for first-degree murder and life sentence without parole.\n\nIn July 2015 Adamcik gained a hearing for post-conviction relief with state Sixth District Magistrate Judge Mitchell W. Brown. He claimed that testimony from character witnesses could have changed the outcome of the sentencing, but that his former attorney, against Adamcik's parents' wishes, chose not to call upon these witnesses. Adamcik said that his attorney believed that the prosecution would have submitted even more damaging evidence. In March 2016 Judge Brown denied his request for post-conviction relief. Adamcik appealed Judge Brown's decision to the Idaho Supreme Court. A hearing was held on November 9, 2017, and on December 26, 2017, the Idaho Supreme Court rejected Adamcik's appeal for post-conviction relief, upholding the district court decision.\n\nIn 2010 the Stoddart family filed a civil lawsuit against the Idaho School District. They claimed that the school was negligent and should have known that Draper and Adamcik posed a threat to others. Both the civil court and the State Supreme Court dismissed the case, saying the actions of the killers were not foreseeable.\n\nIn \"Miller v. Alabama\", , the United States Supreme Court ruled that mandatory sentences of life without the possibility of parole are unconstitutional for juvenile offenders, even in cases of murder. It ruled that the youth of the convict had to be considered.\n\nIn 2016 the Supreme Court ruled in \"Montgomery v. Louisiana\" that this doctrine had to be applied to cases retroactively, and directed a review of all such cases, potentially 1200 to 1500 nationwide. Given juveniles' brain immaturity, the Supreme Court ruled that there had to be an opportunity to consider mitigating factors, as well as for later review of the sentences of such inmates, with possible relief for persons who had reformed. It said that \"children who commit even heinous crimes are capable of change.\" Draper and Adamcik are among the cases that the state courts will review under this ruling. Some 1100 cases are found in the states of Pennsylvania, Louisiana and Michigan, where state courts had ruled that the Supreme Court's \"Miller v. Alabama\" (2012) decision overturning mandatory life sentences for juveniles was not retroactive.\n"}
{"id": "158705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=158705", "title": "Oil spill", "text": "Oil spill\n\nAn oil spill is the release of a liquid petroleum hydrocarbon into the environment, especially the marine ecosystem, due to human activity, and is a form of pollution. The term is usually given to marine oil spills, where oil is released into the ocean or coastal waters, but spills may also occur on land. Oil spills may be due to releases of crude oil from tankers, offshore platforms, drilling rigs and wells, as well as spills of refined petroleum products (such as gasoline, diesel) and their by-products, heavier fuels used by large ships such as bunker fuel, or the spill of any oily refuse or waste oil.\n\nSolby's academically accelerated class took off on a mass journey to discover the advanced reasoning behind such science of oil and water. Below is the research they concluded. \n\nOil spills penetrate into the structure of the plumage of birds and the fur of mammals, reducing its insulating ability, and making them more vulnerable to temperature fluctuations and much less buoyant in the water. Cleanup and recovery from an oil spill is difficult and depends upon many factors, including the type of oil spilled, the temperature of the water (affecting evaporation and biodegradation), and the types of shorelines and beaches involved. Spills may take weeks, months or even years to clean up.\n\nOil spills can have disastrous consequences for society; economically, environmentally, and socially. As a result, oil spill accidents have initiated intense media attention and political uproar, bringing many together in a political struggle concerning government response to oil spills and what actions can best prevent them from happening.\n\nCrude oil and refined fuel spills from tanker ship accidents have damaged vulnerable ecosystems in Alaska, the Gulf of Mexico, the Galapagos Islands, France, the Sundarbans, Ogoniland, and many other places. The quantity of oil spilled during accidents has ranged from a few hundred tons to several hundred thousand tons (e.g., \"Deepwater Horizon\" Oil Spill, \"Atlantic Empress\", \"Amoco Cadiz\"), but volume is a limited measure of damage or impact. Smaller spills have already proven to have a great impact on ecosystems, such as the \"Exxon Valdez\" oil spill because of the remoteness of the site or the difficulty of an emergency environmental response.\n\nSince 2004, between 300 and 700 barrels of oil per day have been leaking from the site of an oil-production platform 12 miles off the Louisiana coast which sank in the aftermath of Hurricane Ivan. The oil spill, which officials estimate could continue throughout the 21st century, will eventually overtake the 2010 BP Deepwater Horizion disaster as the largest ever, but there are currently no efforts to cap the many leaking well heads. \n\nOil spills at sea are generally much more damaging than those on land, since they can spread for hundreds of nautical miles in a thin oil slick which can cover beaches with a thin coating of oil. These can kill seabirds, mammals, shellfish and other organisms they coat. Oil spills on land are more readily containable if a makeshift earth dam can be rapidly bulldozed around the spill site before most of the oil escapes, and land animals can avoid the oil more easily.\n\n! Spill / Tanker || Location || Date || Tonnes of crude oil(thousands) || Barrels(thousands) || US Gallons(thousands) || References\n"}
{"id": "47071357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47071357", "title": "Pelicar (mencey)", "text": "Pelicar (mencey)\n\nPelicar, also written Pellicar or Belicar was a Guanche mencey king of Menceyato of Icode in times of the conquest of Tenerife in the fifteenth century.\n\nPelicar joined the king of Menceyato de Taoro, Bencomo, to repel the Spanish invasion in 1494, including its menceyato in war camps. However, some historians as Viera y Clavijo indicate that Pelicar not allied with Bencomo, as wary of the ambitions of this. Finally, after successive defeats and the loss of key Guanche kings (Bencomo, Tinguaro and Bentor), the mencey of Icode surrendered in 1496, subject to the conquerors in the act known as Paz de Los Realejos.\n\nPelicar was taken to the court of the Catholic Monarchs by Alonso Fernández de Lugo along with six other menceyes to be presented to the monarchs. And in court, Pelicar was sold into slavery unfairly by the royal butler Pedro Patiño, who had been delivered to be his guardian, being released by royal command soon after. The ultimate fate of mencey except possibly ending his days in Seville as a free man is not known.\n\n"}
{"id": "36994870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36994870", "title": "Phi Tai Hong", "text": "Phi Tai Hong\n\nPhi Tai Hong () is a ghost of Thai folklore. It is the vengeful and restless spirit of a person who suffered a violent or cruel death.\n\n\"Phi Tai Hong\" usually has its origin in a man or a woman who died suddenly, often without the observance of proper funerary rituals. According to the \"Royal Institute Dictionary 1999\", the official dictionary of Thai words, \"tai hong\" means \"to die an unnatural and violent death, such as being murdered or drowning\" and \"Phi Tai Hong\" means the ghost of a person who died in such manner.\n\nAccording to Thai oral tradition \"Phi Tai Hong\" are very dangerous for they are usually full of resentment and may easily kill people. The spirit of a person who was assassinated will seek retribution and will eventually threaten and seek to kill the murderers, as well as people that may be close to them when the spirit is active. As a consequence \"Phi Tai Hong\" are among the most feared ghosts, especially in the form known as \"Tai Thang Klom\" (ตายทั้งกลม) or \"Tai Thong Klom\" (ตายท้องกลม), which is the ghost of a woman who died together with her child in her womb. There are many instances in Thailand in which people claim that such spirits are real.\n\nThai culture blames this lethal spirit as one of the ghosts that haunt houses and one of the most difficult to exorcise. Exorcisms can be very complicated, involving arcane ceremonies. Stories about this kind of spirit and the exorcism ceremonies that are needed to be free from them are popular in Thai publications.\n\n\"Phi tai hong\" is a ghost that has been featured in many movies of different types, such as 2003 Thai comedy-horror film \"Buppah Rahtree\" and the 2010 film \"Tai Hong\". It also appears in many other movies, but in a role less central to the theme. In its \"Tai thang klom\" variant this ghost is featured in the 2010 film \"Tai Thang Klom\" (\"The Snow White\").\n\n\"Phi tai hong\" is also a recurring theme in Thai television soap operas \"(lakhon)\" such as \"The Sixth Sense\" (สื่อรักสัมผัสหัวใจ), the highly successful \"Raeng Ngao\" (แรงเงา), and in \"Fai Huan\" (ไฟหวน), as well as in the more recent Nang Chada (นางชฎา) with Davika Hoorne as the vengeful ghost and Waen Sawat (แหวนสวาท) starring 'Pancake' Khemanit Jamikorn in a dual role.\n\nThe \"phi tai hong\" legend often provides a plot to erotic films, such as \"Phi Sao Tai Hong\" and \"Khon Hen Phi\", in which the hero spends a night of pleasure with a woman, but then finds out later she was an apparition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17355709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17355709", "title": "Posterior circulation infarct", "text": "Posterior circulation infarct\n\nA Posterior Circulation Infarct (POCI) is a type of cerebral infarction affecting the posterior circulation supplying one side of the brain.\n\nPosterior Circulation Stroke Syndrome (POCS) refers to the symptoms of a patient who clinically appears to have had a posterior circulation infarct, but who has not yet had any diagnostic imaging (e.g. CT Scan) to confirm the diagnosis.\n\nIt can cause the following symptoms:\n\nIt has also been associated with deafness.\n\n"}
{"id": "47320071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47320071", "title": "Postmortem caloricity", "text": "Postmortem caloricity\n\nPostmortem caloricity is a phenomenon where the body temperature of a corpse rises or remains unusually high for up to 2 hours after death instead of falling.\n\nPostmortem caloricity may (more frequently) be observed in deaths resulting from asphyxia, poisonings (e.g. with datura, alcohol, strychnine), septicemia, bactaeremia, and infectious diseases (yellow fever, rabies, rheumatic fever, cholera, tetanus, smallpox), meningitis, peritonitis, nephritis, brain stem haemorrhages (especially pontine haemorrhages), intracranial injuries, liver abscesses, sunstroke, etc.\n\nPostmortem heat production is caused by biochemical and microbial activity in the dead body. The cause of postmortem caloricity varies depending on the cause of death:\nThe corpse may also absorb heat from the environment when environmental temperature exceeds that of the body.\n\n"}
{"id": "509403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=509403", "title": "Punch (combat)", "text": "Punch (combat)\n\nA punch is a striking blow with the fist. It is used in most martial arts and combat sports, most notably Boxing, where it is the only type of offensive technique allowed. In sports, hand wraps or other padding such as gloves may be used to protect athletes and practitioners from injuring themselves.\n\nThe use of punches varies between different martial arts and combat sports. Styles such as Boxing, Suntukan or Russian fist fighting use punches alone, while others such as Kickboxing, Muay Thai, Lethwei or Karate may use both punches and kicks. Others such as wrestling and judo (punches and other striking techniques, atemi, are present in judo kata, but are forbidden in competitions) do not use punches at all. There are many types of punches and as a result, different styles encompass varying types of punching techniques.\n\nThis is not a comprehensive list of all punches, due to the large diversity of schools of practice whose techniques, employing arm, shoulder, hip and leg work, may invariably differ.\n\nIn boxing, punches are classified according to the motion and direction of the strike; contact is always made with the knuckles. There are four primary punches in boxing: the jab, cross, hook, and uppercut. \n\nPunching techniques in Karate are called \"tsuki\" or \"zuki\". Contact is made with the first two knuckles (\"seiken\"). If any other part of the hand is used to strike with, such as the back of the fist (\"uraken\") or the bottom of the fist (\"tetsui\"), then the blow is classified as a strike (uchi).\n\nKarate punches include the thrust punch \"oi-zuki\" made using the lead-hand, straight punch \"choku-zuki\", reverse punch \"gyaku-zuki\", made from the opposite (lead) hand, and many other variations.\n\n"}
{"id": "20690782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20690782", "title": "Rewilding (conservation biology)", "text": "Rewilding (conservation biology)\n\nRewilding is large-scale conservation aimed at restoring and protecting natural processes and core wilderness areas, providing connectivity between such areas, and protecting or reintroducing apex predators and keystone species. Rewilding projects may require ecological restoration or wilderness engineering, particularly to restore connectivity between fragmented protected areas, and reintroduction of predators and keystone species where extirpated. The ultimate goal of rewilding efforts is to create ecosystems requiring passive management by limiting human control of ecosystems. Successful long term rewilding projects should be considered to have little to no human-based ecological management, as successful reintroduction of keystone species creates a self-regulatory and self-sustaining stable ecosystem, with near pre-human levels of biodiversity.\n\nThe word \"rewilding\" was coined by conservationist and activist Dave Foreman, one of the founders of the group Earth First! who went on to help establish both the Wildlands Project (now the Wildlands Network) and the Rewilding Institute. The term first occurred in print in 1990 and was refined by conservation biologists Michael Soulé and Reed Noss in a paper published in 1998. According to Soulé and Noss, rewilding is a conservation method based on \"cores, corridors, and carnivores.\" The concepts of cores, corridors, and carnivores were developed further in 1999. Dave Foreman subsequently wrote the first full-length exegesis of rewilding as a conservation strategy.\n\nMore recently, anthropologist Layla AbdelRahim offered a new definition of rewilding: \"Wilderness is ... a cumulative topos of diversity, movement, and chaos, while wildness is a characteristic that refers to socio-environmental relationships\". According to her, because civilization is a constantly growing enterprise, it has completely colonized the earth and imperiled life on the planet. Therefore, rewilding can start only with a revolution in the anthropology that constructs the human as predator.\n\nRewilding was developed as a method to preserve functional ecosystems and reduce biodiversity loss, incorporating research in island biogeography and the ecological role of large carnivores. In 1967, \"The Theory of Island Biogeography\" by Robert H. MacArthur and Edward O. Wilson established the importance of considering the size and isolation of wildlife conservation areas, stating that protected areas remained vulnerable to extinctions if small and isolated. In 1987, William D. Newmark's study of extinctions in national parks in North America added weight to the theory. The publications intensified debates on conservation approaches. With the creation of the Society for Conservation Biology in 1985, conservationists began to focus on reducing habitat loss and fragmentation.\n\nBoth grassroots groups and major international conservation organizations have incorporated rewilding into projects to protect and restore large-scale core wilderness areas, corridors (or connectivity) between them, and apex predators, carnivores, or keystone species (species which interact strongly with the environment, such as elephant and beaver). Projects include the Yellowstone to Yukon Conservation Initiative in North America (also known as Y2Y) and the European Green Belt, built along the former Iron Curtain; transboundary projects, including those in southern Africa funded by the Peace Parks Foundation; community-conservation projects, such as the wildlife conservancies of Namibia and Kenya; and projects organized around ecological restoration, including Gondwana Link, regrowing native bush in a hotspot of endemism in southwest Australia, and the Area de Conservacion Guanacaste, restoring dry tropical forest and rainforest in Costa Rica. European Wildlife, established in 2008, advocates the establishment of a \"European Centre of Biodiversity\" at the German–Austrian–Czech borders.\n\nIn North America, another major project aims to restore the prairie grasslands of the Great Plains. The American Prairie Foundation is reintroducing bison on private land in the Missouri Breaks region of north-central Montana, with the goal of creating a prairie preserve larger than Yellowstone National Park.\n\nAn organization called Rewilding Australia has formed which intends to restore various marsupials and other Australian animals which have been extirpated from the mainland, such as Eastern quolls and Tasmanian devils.\n\nIn the 1980s, the Dutch government began introducing proxy species in the Oostvaardersplassen nature reserve in order to recreate a grassland ecology. Though not explicitly referred to as rewilding, nevertheless many of the goals and intentions of the project were in line with those of rewilding. The reserve is considered somewhat controversial due to the lack of predators and other native megafauna such as wolves, bears, lynx, elke, boar, and wisent.\n\nIn 2011, the 'Rewilding Europe' initiative was established with the aim of rewilding 1 million hectares of land in ten areas including the western Iberian Peninsula, Velebit, the Carpathians and the Danube delta by 2020, mostly abandoned farmland among other identified candidate site. The present project considers only species that are still present in Europe, such as the Iberian lynx, Eurasian lynx, wolf, European jackal, Brown bear, chamois, Spanish ibex, European bison, red deer, griffon vulture, cinereous vulture, Egyptian vulture, Great white pelican and horned viper, along with a few primitive breeds of domestic horse and cattle as proxies for the extinct tarpan and aurochs. Since 2012, Rewilding Europe is heavily involved in the Tauros Programme, which seeks to recreate the phenotype of the aurochs, the wild ancestors of domestic cattle by selectively breeding existing breeds of cattle. Many projects also employ domestic water buffalo as a grazing proxy for the extinct European water buffal. \n\nIn 2010 and 2011, an unrelated initiative in the village of San Cebrián de Mudá (190 inhabitants) in Palencia, northern Spain released 18 European bisons (a species extinct in Spain since the Middle Ages) in a natural area already inhabited by roe deer, wild boar, red fox and grey wolf, as part of the creation of a 240-hectare \"Quaternary Park\". Three Przewalski horses from a breeding center in Le Villaret, France were added to the park in October 2012. Onagers and \"aurochs\" were planned to follow.\n\nOn 11 April 2013, eight European bison (one male, five females and two calves) were released into the wild in the Bad Berleburg region of Germany, after 300 years of absence from the region.\n\nPleistocene rewilding was proposed by the Brazilian ecologist Mauro Galetti in 2004. He suggested the introduction of elephants (and other proxies of extinct megafauna) from circuses and zoos to private lands in the Brazilian cerrado. In 2005, stating that much of the original megafauna of North America—including mammoths, ground sloths, and sabre-toothed cats—became extinct after the arrival of humans, Paul S. Martin proposed restoring the ecological balance by replacing them with species which have similar ecological roles, such as Asian or African elephants.\n\nA reserve now exists for formerly captive elephants on the Brazilian Cerrado \n\nA controversial 2005 editorial in \"Nature\", signed by a number of conservation biologists, took up the argument, urging that elephants, lions, and cheetahs could be reintroduced in protected areas in the Great Plains. The Bolson tortoise, discovered in 1959 in Durango, Mexico, was the first species proposed for this restoration effort, and in 2006 the species was reintroduced to two ranches in New Mexico owned by media mogul Ted Turner. Other proposed species include various camelids, equids, and peccaries.\n\nIn 1988, researcher Sergey A. Zimov established the Pleistocene Park in northeastern Siberia to test the possibility of restoring a full range of grazers and predators, with the aim of recreating an ecosystem similar to the one in which mammoths lived. Yakutian horses, reindeer, snow sheep, elk, yak and moose were reintroduced, and reintroduction is also planned for bactrian camels, red deer, and Siberian tigers. The wood bison, a close relative of the ancient bison that died out in Siberia 1000 or 2000 years ago, is also an important species for the ecology of Siberia. In 2006, 30 bison calves were flown from Edmonton, Alberta to Yakutsk and placed in the government-run reserve of Ust'-Buotama. This project remains controversial — a letter published in \"Conservation Biology\" accused the Pleistocene camp of promoting \"Frankenstein ecosystems,\" stating that \"the biggest problem is not the possibility of failing to restore lost interactions, but rather the risk of getting new, unwanted interactions instead.\" The authors proposed that—rather than trying to restore a lost megafauna—conservationists should dedicate themselves to restoring existing species to their original habitats.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1832050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1832050", "title": "Roman funerary practices", "text": "Roman funerary practices\n\nRoman funerary practices include the Ancient Romans' religious rituals concerning funerals, cremations, and burials. They were part of the Tradition (), the unwritten code from which Romans derived their social norms.\n\nRoman cemeteries were located outside the sacred boundary of its cities (\"\"). They were visited regularly with offerings of food and wine, and special observances during Roman festivals in honor of the dead. Funeral monuments appear throughout the Roman Empire, and their inscriptions are an important source of information for otherwise unknown individuals and history. A Roman sarcophagus could be an elaborately crafted art work, decorated with relief sculpture depicting a scene that was allegorical, mythological, or historical, or a scene from everyday life.\n\nAlthough funerals were primarily a concern of the family, which was of paramount importance in Roman society, those who lacked the support of an extended family usually belonged to guilds or \"collegia\" which provided funeral services for members.\n\nIn Greco-Roman antiquity, the bodies of the dead were regarded as polluting. At the same time, loving duty toward one's ancestors (\"\") was a fundamental part of ancient Roman culture. The care of the dead negotiated these two emotionally opposed attitudes.\n\nWhen a person died at home, family members and intimate friends gathered around the death bed. In accordance with a belief that equated the soul with the breath, the closest relative sealed the passing of spirit from the body with a last kiss, and closed the eyes. The relatives began lamentations, calling on the deceased by name. The body was then placed on the ground, washed, and anointed. The placing of the body on the ground is a doublet of birth ritual, when the infant was placed on the bare earth. Mourners were expected to wear the dress appropriate to the occasion, and to their station; an elite male citizen might wear a \"toga pulla\" (a \"dark\" toga, reserved for funerals). If the deceased was a male citizen, he was dressed in his toga; if he had earned a wreath in life, he wore one in death. Wreaths also are found in burials of initiates into mystery religions. After the body was prepared, it lay in state in the atrium of the family home ('), with the feet pointed toward the door. Other circumstances pertained to those who lived, as most Romans did, in apartment buildings ('), but elite practices are better documented.\n\nAlthough embalming was unusual and regarded as mainly an Egyptian practice, it is mentioned in Latin literature, with a few instances documented by archaeology in Rome and throughout the Empire where no Egyptian influence can be assumed. Since elite funerals required complex arrangements, the body had to be preserved in the mean time.\n\n\"Charon's obol\" was a coin placed in or on the mouth of the deceased. The custom is recorded in literary sources and attested by archaeology, and sometimes occurs in contexts that suggest it may have been imported to Rome as were the mystery religions that promised initiates salvation or special passage in the afterlife. The custom was explained by the myth of Charon, the ferryman who conveyed the souls of the newly dead across the water — a lake, river, or swamp — that separated the world of the living from the underworld. The coin was rationalized as his payment; the satirist Lucian remarks that in order to avoid death, one should simply not pay the fee. In Apuleius's tale of \"Cupid and Psyche\" in his \"Metamorphoses\", framed by Lucius's quest for salvation ending with initiation into the mysteries of Isis, Psyche (\"Soul\") carries two coins in her journey to the underworld, the second to enable her return or symbolic rebirth. Evidence of \"Charon's obol\" appears throughout the Western Roman Empire well into the Christian era, but at no time and place was it practiced consistently and by all.\n\nAlthough inhumation was practiced regularly in archaic Rome, cremation was the most common burial practice in the Mid- to Late Republic and the Empire into the 1st and 2nd centuries. Crematory images appear in Latin poetry on the theme of the dead and mourning. In one of the best-known classical Latin poems of mourning, Catullus writes of his long journey to attend to the funeral rites of his brother, who died abroad, and expresses his grief at addressing only silent ash. When Propertius describes his dead lover Cynthia visiting him in a dream, the revenant's dress is scorched down the side and the fire of the pyre has corroded the familiar ring she wears.\n\nUltimately, inhumation would replace cremation; a variety of factors, including decreasing levels of urbanization and changes in attitudes to the afterlife, would contribute to this marked shift in popular burial practices. \n\nThe care and cultivation of the dead did not end with the funeral and formal period of mourning, but was a perpetual obligation. Libations were brought to the grave, and some tombs were even equipped with \"feeding tubes\" to facilitate delivery. (See below.)\n\nThe Romans referred to infants who died in the cradle as \"arpagi\" (singular \"arpagus\"). The Romans did not hold funerals for \"arpagi.\" Their bodies were not cremated, or interred, and no monuments or epitaphs were made for them. Eventually, infants who had lived 40 or more days and had cut teeth before their deaths were distinguished from the \"arpagi\"; they were referred to as \"rapti,\" and they were cremated.\n\nFuneral rites took place at home and at the place of burial, which was located outside the city to avoid the pollution of the living. The funeral procession \"(pompa funebris)\" transited the distance between the two.\n\nA professional guild (\"\") of musicians specialized in funeral music. Horace mentions the \"tuba\" and the \"cornu\", two bronze trumpet-like instruments, at funerals.\n\nThe eulogy (') was a formal oration or panegyric in praise of the dead. It was one of two forms of discourse at a Roman funeral, the other being the chant ('). The practice is associated with noble families, and the conventions for words spoken at an ordinary person's funeral go unrecorded. While oratory was practiced in Rome only by men, an elite woman might also be honored with a eulogy.\n\nFor socially prominent individuals, the funeral procession stopped at the forum for the public delivery of the eulogy from the Rostra. Thus a well-delivered funeral oration could be a way for a young politician to publicize himself. Aunt Julia's Eulogy (\"\"), a speech made by the young Julius Caesar in honor of his aunt, the widow of Gaius Marius, helped launch his political career as a populist.\n\nThe epitaph of the deceased in effect was a digest of the eulogy made visible and permanent, and might include the career (\"cursus honorum\") of a man who had held public offices. In commemorating past deeds, the eulogy was a precursor to Roman historiography.\n\nAfter the body was carried to the cemetery, a sacrifice was performed in the presence of the corpse. Until the time of Cicero, it was customary to offer a sow to Ceres, a sow also being a characteristic offering to chthonic deities. The sacrificial victim was then allotted for consumption among the participants. The portion for the deceased was put on a spit and cremated with the body. Ceres' portion was burned on an altar. The family ate the portion that was due the living. A family of lesser means offered a libation of wine, incense, produce or grain; the allocation of these offerings is not recorded. After this apportioning, the deceased had transitioned and could no longer share in the meals of the living and the domestic gods; he now partook of what was appropriate for the spirits of the dead, the Manes.\n\nOn the ninth day after the person died, the funeral feast and rites called the \"novendialis\" or \"novemdialis\" were held. A libation to the Manes was poured onto the grave. This concluded the period of full mourning. Mourning dress was put aside, and a feast was given.\n\nIn February, the last month of the original Roman calendar when March 1 was New Year's Day, the dead were honored at a nine-day festival called the Parentalia, followed by the Feralia on February 21, when the potentially malign spirits of the dead were propitiated. During the Parentalia, families gathered at cemeteries to offer meals to the ancestors, and then shared wine and cakes among themselves (compare veneration of the dead in other cultures). Tombs for wealthy, prominent families were constructed as \"houses\", with a decorated room for these banqueting festivities.\n\nEpitaphs are one of the major classes of inscriptions. An epitaph usually noted the person's day of birth and lifespan. Information varies, but collectively they offer information on family relationships, political offices, and Roman values, in choosing what aspects of the deceased's life to praise.\n\nPhilosophical beliefs may also be in evidence. The epitaphs of Epicureans often expressed some form of the sentiment \"non fui, fui, non sum, non desidero\", \"I did not exist, I have existed, I do not exist, I feel no desire,\" or \"non fui, non sum, non curo\", \"I did not exist, I do not exist, I'm not concerned about it.\"\n\nNoble Roman families often displayed a series of \"images\" ( ',  ') in the atrium of their family home. There is some uncertainty about whether these \"images\" were funeral masks, busts, or both together. The \"images\" could be arranged in a family tree, with a title (') summarizing the individual's offices held (') and accomplishments (\"\"), a practice that might be facilitated by hanging masks. In any case, portrait busts of family members in stone or bronze were displayed in the home as well.\n\nFuneral masks were most likely made of wax and possibly molded as death masks directly from the deceased. They were worn in the funeral procession either by actors who were professional mourners, or by appropriate members of the family. Practice may have varied by period or by family, since sources give no consistent account.\n\nThe display of ancestral images in aristocratic houses of the Republic and the public funerals are described by Pliny, Natural History 35, 4-11.\n\nSince references to \"images\" often fail to distinguish between commemorative portrait busts, extant examples of which are abundant, or funeral masks made of more perishable materials, none can be identified with certainty as having survived. The veristic tradition of funerary likenesses, however, contributed to the development of realistic Roman portraiture. In Roman Egypt, the Fayum mummy portraits reflect traditions of Egyptian and Roman funerary portraiture and the techniques of Hellenistic painting.\n\nThe funerary urns in which the ashes of the cremated were placed were gradually overtaken in popularity by the sarcophagus as inhumation became more common. Particularly in the 2nd–4th centuries, these were often decorated with reliefs that became an important vehicle for Late Roman sculpture. The scenes depicted were drawn from mythology, religious beliefs pertaining to the mysteries, allegories, history, or scenes of hunting or feasting. Many sarcophagi depict Nereids, fantastical sea creatures, and other marine imagery that may allude to the location of the Isles of the Blessed across the sea, with a portrait of the deceased on a seashell. The sarcophagus of a child may show tender representations of family life, Cupids, or children playing.\nSome sarcophagi may have been ordered during the person's life and custom-made to express their beliefs or aesthetics. Most were mass-produced, and if they contained a portrait of the deceased, as many did, with the face of the figure left unfinished until purchase. The carved sarcophagus survived the transition to Christianity, and became the first common location for Christian sculpture, in works like the mid 4th-century Sarcophagus of Junius Bassus.\n\nAncient Rome has become an excavation site known for its rather extravagant cemeteries. All in all, the commoners and wealthy families of Rome were buried in the same cemeteries; the wealthy, however, had more elaborate tombs. The tombs of the wealthy were typically cut out of bedrock and rectangular in shape. These rectangular tombs resembled the Ancient Roman's house structure, having doors, and many different chambers. Of these chambers, one of them was used to hold the dead's memorial ceremony. During this ceremony, the family of the deceased would get together and have dinner. Other chambers were used to house anything thought necessary for the person laid to rest – including portraits of the deceased and any paraphernalia needed for the memorial ceremony that had yet to come.\n\nWealthy and prominent families had large, sometimes enormous, mausoleums. The Castel Sant'Angelo by the Vatican, originally the mausoleum of Hadrian, is the best preserved, as it was converted to a fortress. The Tomb of the Scipios was the family tomb of the Scipios, located in an aristocratic cemetery, and in use from the 3rd century BC to the 1st century AD. A grand mausoleum might include bedrooms and kitchens for family visits which would include feasts. For the wealthy middle class, smaller mausolea lined the roads from cities, many of which still remain in the Tombs of Via Latina, along the Appian Way, and elsewhere. The Tomb of Eurysaces the Baker is a famous and originally very ostentatious tomb in a prime spot just outside the Porta Maggiore, erected for a rich freedman baker around 50-20 BC. The tombs at Petra, in the far east of the Empire are cut into cliffs, some with elaborate facades in the \"baroque\" style of the Imperial period. The less wealthy made do with smaller tombs, often featuring relief busts over a lengthy inscription. Cheaper still were the Catacombs of Rome, famously used by Christians, but also by all religions, with some specialization, such as special Jewish sections. These were large systems of narrow tunnels in the soft rock below Rome, where niches were sold to the families of the deceased in a very profitable, if rather smelly, trade. Decoration included paintings, many of which have survived. The exterior of the tomb resembled that of a garden. Beautiful flowers and plants decked the outside of the tombs and made them more flattering to the eye. This was probably were the tradition of bringing flowers to a loved one’s grave site began. Other items were also added to the outside of the wealthy’s tombs to make it more decorative. The burial chamber of the deceased was above ground and stocked with relics that were important to the deceased Roman. Lack of relics found in excavated tombs was most probably due to grave robbing.\n\nIn the Christian period, it became desirable to be buried near the grave of a famous martyr, and large funeral halls were opened over such graves, which were often in a catacomb underneath. These contained rows of tombs, but also space for meals for the family, now probably to be seen as agape feasts. Many of the large Roman churches began as funeral halls, which were originally private enterprises; the family of Constantine owned the one over the grave of Saint Agnes of Rome, whose ruins are next to Santa Costanza, originally a Constantinian family mausoleum forming an apse to the hall.\n\n\"The cult of the dead,\" it has been noted, \"was particularly important to men whose profession exposed them to a premature demise.\" The Roman value of \"pietas\" encompassed the desire of soldiers to honor their fallen comrades, though the conditions of war might interfere with the timely performance of traditional rites. Soldiers killed in battle on foreign soil with ongoing hostilities were probably given a mass cremation or burial. Under less urgent circumstances, they might be cremated individually, and their ashes placed in a vessel for transport to a permanent burial site. When the Roman army under the command of Publius Quinctilius Varus suffered their disastrous defeat at the Battle of Teutoburg Forest in 9 AD, they remained uncommemorated until Germanicus and his troops located the battlefield a few years later and made a funeral mound for their remains.\n\nIn the permanent garrisons of the Empire, a portion of each soldier's pay was set aside and pooled for funeral expenses, including the ritual meal, the burial, and commemoration. Soldiers who died of illness or an accident during the normal routines of life would have been given the same rites as in civilian life. The first burial clubs for soldiers were formed under Augustus; burial societies had existed for civilians long before. Veterans might pay into a fund upon leaving the service, insuring a decent burial by membership in an association for that purpose.\n\nTombstones and monuments throughout the Empire document military personnel and units stationed at particular camps \"(castra)\". If the body could not be recovered, the death could be commemorated with a cenotaph. Epitaphs on Roman military tombstones usually give the soldier's name, his birthplace, rank and unit, age and years of service, and sometimes other information such as the names of his heirs. Some more elaborate monuments depict the deceased, either in his parade regalia or in civilian dress to emphasize his citizenship. Cavalrymen are often shown riding over the body of a downtrodden foe, an image interpreted as a symbolic victory over death. Military funeral monuments from Roman Africa take progressively more substantial forms: steles in the 1st century, altars in the 2nd, and cupulas (mounds) in the 3rd. Tombs were often grouped in military cemeteries along the roads that led out of the camp. A centurion might be well-off enough to have a mausoleum built.\n\nIf a commander was killed in action, the men rode or marched around his pyre, or in some circumstances a cenotaph.\n\nStandard accounts of Roman mythology describe the soul as immortal and judged at death before a tribunal in the underworld, with those who had done good being sent to the Elysian Fields and those who had done ill sent to Tartarus. It is unclear how ancient such beliefs were, as they seem influenced by Greek mythology and mystery cults.\n\nThe mysteries continued under Rome and seem to have promised immortality only for the initiated. Known forms of esoteric religion combined Roman, Egyptian, and Middle Eastern mythology and astrology, describing the progress of its initiates through the regions of the moon, sun, and stars. The uninitiated or virtueless were then left behind, the underworld becoming solely a place of torment. Common depictions of the afterlife of the bless include rest, a celestial banquet, and the vision of God (\"\" or Jupiter).\n\nThe mainstream of Roman philosophy, such as the Stoics, advocated contemplation and acceptance of the inevitability of death of all mortals. \"It is necessary for some to stay and for others to go, all the while rejoicing with those who are with us, yet not grieving for those departing.\" To grieve bitterly is to fail to perceive and accept the nature of things. Famously, Epictetus encouraged contemplation of one's loved ones as a \"jar\" or \"crystal cup\" which might break and be remembered without troubling the spirit, since \"you love a mortal, something not your own. It has been given to you for the present, not inseparably nor forever, but like a fig... at a fixed season of the year. If you yearn for it in the winter, you are a fool.\"\nThere was no real consensus, at least among surviving Roman texts and epitaphs, of what happened to a person after death or the existence of an afterlife. Pliny the Elder in his Naturalis Historia claims that most people are of the opinion that after death one returns to the non-sensing state that occurred before birth but admits, however scornfully, that there are people who believe in the immortality of the soul. Seneca the Younger seems to be less consistent, arguing both sides, indicating that death brings about utter annihilation while also talking about some survival of the spirit after it escapes from the prison of the body. Tacitus at the end of Agricola takes the opposite opinion to Pliny, and claims that the wise believe the spirit does not die with the body, although he may be specifically referring to the pious – which harkens to the mythological idea of Elysium. It is important to keep in mind that these are the opinions of a select few well-educated elite males and may not be characteristic of all of Roman views.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "179076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=179076", "title": "Scapegoating", "text": "Scapegoating\n\nScapegoating is the practice of singling out a person or group for unmerited blame and consequent negative treatment. Scapegoating may be conducted by individuals against individuals (e.g. \"he did it, not me!\"), individuals against groups (e.g., \"I couldn't see anything because of all the tall people\"), groups against individuals (e.g., \"Jane was the reason our team didn't win\"), and groups against groups.\n\nA scapegoat may be an adult, child, sibling, employee, peer, ethnic, political or religious group, or country. A whipping boy, identified patient or \"fall guy\" are forms of scapegoat.\n\nA medical definition of scapegoating is:\n\nScapegoated groups throughout history have included almost every imaginable group of people: genders, religions, people of different races, nations, or sexual orientations, people with different political beliefs, or people differing in behaviour from the majority. However, scapegoating may also be applied to organizations, such as governments, corporations, or various political groups.\n\nJungian analysist Sylvia Brinton Perera situates its mythology of shadow and guilt. Individuals experience it at the archetypal level. As an ancient social process to rid a community of its past evil deeds and reconnect it to the sacred realm, the scapegoat appeared in a biblical rite, which involved two goats and the pre-Judaic, chthonic god Azazel. In the modern scapegoat complex, however, \"the energy field has been radically broken apart\" and the libido \"split off from consciousness\". Azazel's role is deformed into an accuser of the scapegoated victim. \n\nBlame for breaking a perfectionist moral code, for instance, might be measured out by aggressive scapegoaters. Themselves often wounded, the scapegoaters can be sadistic, superego accusers with brittle personas, who have driven their own shadows underground from where such are projected onto the victim. The scapegoated victim may then live in a hell of felt unworthiness, retreating from consciousness, burdened by shadow and transpersonal guilt, and hiding from the pain of self-understanding. Therapy includes modeling self-protective skills for the victim's battered ego, and guidance in the search for inner integrity, to find the victim's own voice.\n\nUnwanted thoughts and feelings can be unconsciously projected onto another who becomes a scapegoat for one's own problems. This concept can be extended to projection by groups. In this case the chosen individual, or group, becomes the scapegoat for the group's problems. \"Political agitation in all countries is full of such projections, just as much as the backyard gossip of little groups and individuals.\" Swiss psychiatrist Carl Jung considered indeed that \"there must be some people who behave in the wrong way; they act as scapegoats and objects of interest for the normal ones\".\n\nThe scapegoat theory of intergroup conflict provides an explanation for the correlation between times of relative economic despair and increases in prejudice and violence toward outgroups. Studies of anti-black violence (racist violence) in the southern United States between 1882 and 1930 show a correlation between poor economic conditions and outbreaks of violence (e.g., lynchings) against blacks. The correlation between the price of cotton (the principal product of the area at that time) and the number of lynchings of black men by whites ranged from -0.63 to -0.72, suggesting that a poor economy induced white people to take out their frustrations by attacking an outgroup.\n\nScapegoating as a group necessitates that ingroup members settle on one specific target to blame for their problems. Scapegoating is also more likely to appear when a group has experienced difficult, prolonged negative experiences (as opposed to minor annoyances). When negative conditions frustrate a group's attempts at successful acquisition of its most essential needs (e.g., food, shelter), groups develop a compelling, shared ideology that - when combined with social and political pressures - may lead to the most extreme form of scapegoating: genocide.\n\nScapegoating can also cause oppressed groups to lash out at other oppressed groups. Even when injustices are committed against a minority group by the majority group, minorities sometimes lash out against a different minority group in lieu of confronting the more powerful majority.\n\nIn management, scapegoating is a known practice in which a lower staff employee is blamed for the mistakes of senior executives. This is often due to lack of accountability in upper management.\n\nLiterary critic and philosopher Kenneth Burke first coined and described the expression scapegoat mechanism in his books \"Permanence and Change\" (1935), and \"A Grammar of Motives\" (1945). These works influenced some philosophical anthropologists, such as Ernest Becker and René Girard. Girard developed the concept much more extensively as an interpretation of human culture. In Girard's view, it is humankind, not God, who has need for various forms of atoning violence. Humans are driven by desire for that which another has or wants (mimetic desire). This causes a triangulation of desire and results in conflict between the desiring parties. This mimetic \"contagion\" increases to a point where society is at risk; it is at this point that the \"scapegoat mechanism\" is triggered. This is the point where one person is singled out as the cause of the trouble and is expelled or killed by the group. This person is the scapegoat. Social order is restored as people are contented that they have solved the cause of their problems by removing the scapegoated individual, and the cycle begins again. The keyword here is \"content\". Scapegoating serves as a psychological relief for a group of people. Girard contends that this is what happened in the narrative of Jesus of Nazareth, the central figure in Christianity. The difference between the scapegoating of Jesus and others, Girard believes, is that in the resurrection of Jesus from the dead, he is shown to be an innocent victim; humanity is thus made aware of its violent tendencies and the cycle is broken. Thus Girard's work is significant as a reconstruction of the \"Christus Victor\" atonement theory.\n\n"}
{"id": "1247882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1247882", "title": "Sterile fungi", "text": "Sterile fungi\n\nThe sterile fungi, or \"mycelia sterilia\" are a group of fungi that do not produce any known spores, either sexual or asexual. This is considered a form group, not a taxonomic division, and is used as a matter of convenience. Because these fungi do not produce spores, it is impossible to use traditional methods of morphological comparison to classify them. However, molecular techniques can be applied to determine their evolutionary history.\n"}
{"id": "54007418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54007418", "title": "Stoned Fox", "text": "Stoned Fox\n\nStoned Fox () is an anthropomorphic taxidermied fox that has become an Internet sensation in Russia.\n\nThe fox died of natural causes. It was stuffed in 2012 by Welsh artist Adele Morse (originally from Blackwood, Caerphilly, now based in Dalston, East London), who at the time was taking a Masters course at the Royal Academy of London and made it as part of a school project. The results weren't good. She put the finished work on eBay where it surprisingly gained lots of attention.\n\nAt the end of 2012 in Russia the fox quickly became an Internet meme. It is edited into famous paintings, photographs, videos, and other visual media.\n\n"}
{"id": "39919360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39919360", "title": "Technosignature", "text": "Technosignature\n\nTechnosignature or technomarker is any measurable property or effect that provides scientific evidence of past or present technology.\nTechnosignatures are analogous to the biosignatures that signal the presence of life, whether or not intelligent. Some authors prefer to exclude radio transmissions from the definition, but such restrictive usage is not widespread.\nJill Tarter has proposed that the search for extraterrestrial intelligence (SETI) be renamed \"the search for technosignatures\".\nVarious types of technosignatures, such as radiation leakage from megascale astroengineering installations such as Dyson spheres, the light from an extraterrestrial ecumenopolis, or Shkadov thrusters with the power to alter the orbits of stars around the Galactic Center, may be detectable with hypertelescopes. Some examples of technosignatures are described in Paul Davies's 2010 book \"The Eerie Silence\", although the terms \"technosignature\" and \"technomarker\" do not appear in the book.\n\nA Dyson sphere, constructed by life forms dwelling in proximity to a Sun-like star, would cause an increase in the amount of infrared radiation in the star system's emitted spectrum. Hence, Freeman Dyson selected the title \"Search for Artificial Stellar Sources of Infrared Radiation\" for his 1960 paper on the subject. SETI has adopted these assumptions in its search, looking for such \"infrared heavy\" spectra from solar analogs. From 2005, Fermilab has conducted an ongoing survey for such spectra, analyzing data from the Infrared Astronomical Satellite.\n\nIdentifying one of the many infra-red sources as a Dyson sphere would require improved techniques for discriminating between a Dyson sphere and natural sources. Fermilab discovered 17 \"ambiguous\" candidates, of which four have been named \"amusing but still questionable\". Other searches also resulted in several candidates, which remain unconfirmed. In October 2012, astronomer Geoff Marcy, one of the pioneers of the search for extrasolar planets, was given a research grant to search data from the \"Kepler\" telescope, with the aim of detecting possible signs of Dyson spheres.\n\nShkadov thrusters, with the hypothetical ability to change the orbital paths of stars in order to avoid various dangers to life such as cold molecular clouds or cometary impacts, would also be detectable in a similar fashion to the transiting extrasolar planets searched by \"Kepler\". Unlike planets, though, the thrusters would appear to abruptly stop over the surface of a star rather than crossing it completely, revealing their technological origin. In addition, evidence of targeted extrasolar asteroid mining may also reveal extraterrestrial intelligence.\n\nVarious astronomers, including Avi Loeb of the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics and Edwin Turner of Princeton University have proposed that artificial light from extraterrestrial planets, such as that originating from cities, industries, and transport networks, could be detected and signal the presence of an advanced civilization. Such approaches, though, make the assumption that the radiant energy generated by civilization would be relatively clustered and can therefore be detected easily.\n\nLight and heat detected from planets must be distinguished from natural sources to conclusively prove the existence of intelligent life on a planet. For example, NASA's 2012 \"Black Marble\" experiment showed that significant stable light and heat sources on Earth, such as chronic wildfires in arid Western Australia, originate from uninhabited areas and are naturally occurring.\n\nAtmospheric analysis of planetary atmospheres, as is already done on various Solar System bodies and in a rudimentary fashion on several hot Jupiter extrasolar planets, may reveal the presence of chemicals produced by technological civilizations. For example, atmospheric emissions from industry on Earth, including nitrogen dioxide and chlorofluorocarbons, are detectable from space. Artificial pollution may therefore be detectable on extrasolar planets. However, there remains a possibility of mis-detection; for example, the atmosphere of Titan has detectable signatures of complex chemicals that are similar to what on Earth are industrial pollutants, though obviously not the byproduct of civilisation. Some SETI scientists have proposed searching for artificial atmospheres created by planetary engineering to produce habitable environments for colonisation by an ETI.\n\nInterstellar spacecraft may be detectable from hundreds to thousands of light-years away through various forms of radiation, such as the photons emitted by an antimatter rocket or cyclotron radiation from the interaction of a magnetic sail with the interstellar medium. Such a signal would be easily distinguishable from a natural signal and could hence firmly establish the existence of extraterrestrial life were it to be detected. In addition, smaller Bracewell probes within the Solar System itself may also be detectable by means of optical or radio searches.\n\nA less advanced technology, and one closer to humanity's current technological level, is the Clarke Exobelt proposed by Astrophysicist Hector Socas-Navarro of the Instituto de Astrofisica de Canarias. This hypothetical belt would be formed by all the artificial satellites occupying geostationary/geosynchronous orbits around an exoplanet. Simulations suggest that a very dense satellite belt (requiring only a moderately more-advanced civilization than ours) would be detectable with existing technology in the light curves from transiting exoplanets.\n\nOne of the first attempts to search for Dyson Spheres was made by Vyacheslav Slysh from the Space Research Institute in Moscow in 1985 using data from the Infrared Astronomical Satellite (IRAS).\n\nAnother search for technosignatures, circa 2001, involved an analysis of data from the Compton Gamma Ray Observatory for traces of anti-matter, which, besides one \"intriguing spectrum probably not related to SETI\", came up empty.\n\nIn 2005, Fermilab had an ongoing survey for such spectra by analyzing data from IRAS. Identifying one of the many infra-red sources as a Dyson Sphere would require improved techniques for discriminating between a Dyson Sphere and natural sources. Fermilab discovered 17 potential \"ambiguous\" candidates of which four have been named \"amusing but still questionable\". Other searches also resulted in several candidates, which are, however, unconfirmed.\n\nIn a 2005 paper, Luc Arnold proposed a means of detecting planetary-sized artifacts from their distinctive transit light curve signature. He showed that such technosignature was within the reach of space missions aimed at detecting exoplanets by the transit method, as were \"Corot\" or \"Kepler\" projects at that time. The principle of the detection remains applicable for the future exoplanets missions.\n\nIn 2012, a trio of astronomers led by Jason Wright started a two-year search for Dyson Spheres, aided by grants from the Templeton Foundation.\n\nIn 2013, Geoff Marcy received funding to use data from the Kepler Telescope to search for Dyson Spheres and interstellar communication using lasers, and Lucianne Walkowicz received funding to detect artificial signatures in stellar photometry.\n\nStarting in 2016, astronomer Jean-Luc Margot of UCLA has been searching for technosignatures with large radio telescopes.\n"}
{"id": "23025743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23025743", "title": "Troglodyte (Dungeons &amp; Dragons)", "text": "Troglodyte (Dungeons &amp; Dragons)\n\nThe troglodyte is a fictional race of primitive reptilian humanoids in the \"Dungeons & Dragons\" fantasy role-playing game.\n\nThe troglodyte was introduced to the \"D&D\" game in the first edition of \"Advanced Dungeons & Dragons\".\n\nThe troglodyte appears in the first edition \"Monster Manual\" (1977), where it is described as a reptilian humanoid that dwells in subterranean places, loathes humans and slaughters all it encounters.\n\nTroglodytes play an important role in the module \"Against the Cult of the Reptile God\" (1982).\n\nThis edition of the \"D&D\" game included its own version of the troglodyte, in the \"Dungeons & Dragons Basic Set\" (1977, 1981, 1983). The troglodyte was also later featured in the \"Dungeons & Dragons Game\" set (1991), the \"Dungeons & Dragons Rules Cyclopedia\" (1991), the \"Classic Dungeons & Dragons Game\" set (1994), and the \"Dungeons & Dragons Adventure Game\" set (1999).\n\nThe troglodyte appears first in the \"Monstrous Compendium Volume Two\" (1989), and is reprinted in the \"Monstrous Manual\" (1993).\n\nThe troglodyte was detailed in \"Dragon\" #235 (November 1996), in the \"Ecology of the Troglodyte\".\n\nThe troglodyte was one of the humanoid races presented as player character races in \"Dragon\" #265 (November 1999).\n\nThe troglodyte appears in the \"Monster Manual\" for this edition (2000).\n\nThe troglodyte appears in the revised \"Monster Manual\" for this edition (2003).\n\nThe troglodyte was presented as a player character race for the Forgotten Realms campaign setting in \"Serpent Kingdoms\" (2004).\n\n\"Dungeon\" #122 (May 2005) introduced a number of troglodyte variants, including the antennae troglodyte, the clawed troglodyte, the climbing troglodyte, the flailing troglodyte, the horned troglodyte, the jumping troglodyte, the tentacled troglodyte, and the vicious troglodyte.\n\nThe troglodyte appears in the \"Monster Manual\" for this edition (2008). The troglodyte also appeared in the \"Monster Manual 2\" (2009) and the \"Monster Vault\" (2010).\n\nThe troglodyte appears in the \"Monster Manual\" for this edition (2014).\n\nTroglodytes are described as being shorter than a human, with spindly but muscular arms and squat legs. It also has some lizardman-like traits with a reptilian head and forearms, a spinal crest, and a long, slender tail.\n\nA troglodyte is usually chaotic evil in alignment; they are considered mostly hostile towards humans and other races.\n\nTroglodytes primarily worship their patron, a disgusting toad-lizard called Laogzed. Some worship Ogrémoch, prince of evil earth creatures. In ancient times, many worshiped Demogorgon.\n\nTroglodytes carry a repulsive odor which causes harm to those around them.\n\nThe spoken troglodyte language is apparently derived from a simplified version of the lizardfolk tongue, but this is accompanied by a vast, full vocabulary consisting of smells generated by troglodyte scent glands. This olfactory language was apparently their original means of communication, and they adopted words from the lizardfolk dialect of Draconic purely to make themselves comprehensible to outsiders. Their olfactory language takes precedence over all others.\n\nTroglodytes are fairly intelligent. They are not as intelligent as most humans, but their fear towards their deities allows them to be easily fooled. Showing god-like power, saving them from harm, or offering them shiny objects has a chance of taming them. Troglodytes do not enjoy captivity and can generally be influenced to become a companion by releasing them.\n\nThousands of years in the past, the ancestors of the troglodytes dominated much of the Oerth before they were struck mad by the demon gods they worshiped. Some few secluded groups managed to hold on to some vestige of their civilization. Near modern Irongate, a group dominated the local Flan tribes until the rise of the Flan kingdom of Ahlissa, when the Hradikar warriors of that land threatened the reptiles' rule. Rather than confronting the humans directly, the troglodytes put themselves into a magical sleep.\n\nA band of troglodytes serving a lich are featured in the 1978 module \"Descent into the Depths of the Earth\", as well as in the 2000 novelization, written by Paul Kidd.\n\nThe troglodyte is featured in the \"D&D\" Miniatures: Dragoneye set #60 (2004).\n"}
{"id": "4029834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4029834", "title": "Walter IV, Count of Enghien", "text": "Walter IV, Count of Enghien\n\nWalter IV of Enghien (died 1381), Hainault nobleman and soldier, was the son of Sohier of Enghien. He was Count of Brienne as Walter VII and Lord of Enghien in 1364–1381.\n\nAppointed Marshal of Flanders by Louis II of Flanders, he energetically prosecuted the war against the rebellious Ghentois. He is notorious for his sack of the city of Geraardsbergen on July 7, 1381, wherein his troops burned and destroyed the town, killing many of its inhabitants.\n\nRejoining the Flemish army besieging Ghent, he and a handful of companions were trapped by an ambush laid by the Ghentois, perhaps composed of survivors of Geraardsbergen. He and his illegitimate half-brother John were both cut down in the fighting.\n\nHe was succeeded by his heir in proximity of blood, his uncle Louis of Enghien.\n\n"}
{"id": "3500951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3500951", "title": "Walther Schwieger", "text": "Walther Schwieger\n\nKapitänleutnant Walther Schwieger (7 April 1885 – 5 September 1917) was a U-boat commander in the Imperial German Navy (\"Kaiserliche Marine\") during First World War. In 1915, he sank the passenger liner with the loss of 1,198 lives.\n\nIn 1903 he joined the Imperial German Navy and from 1911 onwards he served with the U-boat Service. In 1912 he took over the command of the . After the outbreak of World War I in 1914 he was promoted to \"Kapitänleutnant\" and given command of the .\n\nOn 7 May 1915, Schwieger was responsible for \"U-20's\" sinking passenger liner leading to the deaths of 1,198 people, an event that played a role in the United States' later entry into World War I. He also torpedoed SS \"Hesperian\" on 4 September and on 8 May 1916. On 31 May 1917, his U-boat sank the \"Miyazaki Maru\" during that ship's voyage from Yokohama to London, causing the loss of eight lives.\n\nSchwieger was killed in action on 5 September 1917. His U-boat hit a British mine while being chased by . It sank north of Terschelling at with a loss of all hands.\n\nDuring his wartime career, Schwieger captained three different submarines, on a total of 34 missions. He sank 49 ships, measuring . He was the sixth most successful submarine commander of World War I.\n\n"}
{"id": "34953010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34953010", "title": "Zero Dark Thirty", "text": "Zero Dark Thirty\n\nZero Dark Thirty is a 2012 American thriller film directed by Kathryn Bigelow and written by Mark Boal. The film dramatizes the nearly decade-long international manhunt for al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden after the September 11 attacks. This search leads to the discovery of his compound in Pakistan and the military raid that resulted in bin Laden's death on May 2, 2011.\n\nJessica Chastain stars as Maya, a fictional CIA intelligence analyst, with Jason Clarke, Joel Edgerton, Mark Strong, James Gandolfini, Kyle Chandler, Stephen Dillane, Chris Pratt, Édgar Ramírez, Fares Fares, Jennifer Ehle, John Barrowman, Mark Duplass, and Frank Grillo in supporting roles. It was produced by Boal, Bigelow, and Megan Ellison, and independently financed by Ellison's Annapurna Pictures. The film premiered in Los Angeles on December 19, 2012 and had its wide release on January 11, 2013.\n\n\"Zero Dark Thirty\" received acclaim and appeared on 95 critics' top ten lists of 2012. It was nominated in five categories at the 85th Academy Awards, including Best Picture, Best Actress for Chastain, Best Original Screenplay, and Best Film Editing, and won the award for Best Sound Editing, shared with \"Skyfall\". It also earned Golden Globe Award nominations for Best Motion Picture – Drama, Best Director, and Best Screenplay, with Chastain winning the award for Best Actress in a Motion Picture – Drama.\n\nThe depiction of so-called enhanced interrogation generated controversy, with some critics describing it as pro-torture propaganda, as the interrogations are shown producing reliably useful and accurate information. Acting CIA director Michael Morell felt the film created the false impression that torture was key to finding bin Laden. Others described it as an anti-torture exposure of interrogation practices.\n\nRepublican Congressman Peter T. King charged that the filmmakers were given improper access to classified materials, which they denied. An unreleased draft IG report published by the Project on Government Oversight, in June 2013, stated that former CIA Director Leon Panetta discussed classified information during an awards ceremony for the SEAL team that carried out the raid on the bin Laden compound. Unbeknownst to Panetta, screenwriter Boal was among the 1,300 present during the ceremony.\n\nMaya is a U.S. Central Intelligence Agency analyst tasked with finding the al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden. In 2003 she is stationed at the U.S. embassy in Pakistan. She and officer Dan attend the black site interrogations of Ammar, a detainee with suspected links to several of the 2001 hijackers in the September 11 attacks who is subjected to approved torture interrogation techniques. Ammar provides unreliable information on a suspected attack in Saudi Arabia, but reveals to Maya the name of the personal courier for bin Laden, Abu Ahmed al-Kuwaiti. Other detainee intelligence connects courier traffic by Abu Ahmed between Abu Faraj al-Libbi (Yoav Levi) and bin Laden. In 2005, Faraj denies knowing about a courier named Abu Ahmed; Maya interprets this as an attempt by Faraj to conceal the importance of Abu Ahmed.\n\nIn 2009, during the Camp Chapman attack, Maya's fellow officer and friend Jessica (Jennifer Ehle) is killed. A case manager that likes the Abu Ahmed lead shares with her an interrogation with a Jordanian detainee claiming to have buried Abu Ahmed in 2001. Maya learns what the CIA was told five years earlier: that Morocco caught Ibrihim Sayeed traveling under the name of Abu Ahmed al-Kuwaiti. Realizing her lead may be alive, Maya contacts Dan, now a senior officer at the CIA headquarters. She speculates that the CIA's photograph of Ahmed is that of his brother, Habeeb, who was killed in Afghanistan. Maya says that their beards and native clothes make the brothers look alike, explaining Ammar's account of Ahmed's \"death\" in 2001.\n\nA Kuwaiti prince trades the phone number of Sayeed's mother for a Lamborghini. CIA operatives use electronic methods to pinpoint a caller in a vehicle who exhibits tradecraft behaviors that delay confirmation of his identity. They track the vehicle to a large urban compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan, near the Pakistan Military Academy. After gunmen attack Maya while she is in her vehicle, she is recalled to Washington, D.C.\n\nThe CIA puts the compound under surveillance, but obtains no conclusive identification of bin Laden. The President's National Security Advisor tasks the CIA with creating a plan to capture or kill bin Laden. Before briefing President Barack Obama, the CIA director (James Gandolfini) holds a meeting of his senior officers, who estimate that bin Laden is 60-80% likely to be in the compound. Maya, also in the meeting, places her confidence at 100%.\n\nOn May 2, 2011, the 160th Special Operations Aviation Regiment flies two stealth helicopters from Afghanistan into Pakistan with members of DEVGRU and the CIA's SAD/SOG to raid the compound. One helicopter crashes, but the SEALs gain entry and kill a number of people in the compound, including a man they believe is bin Laden. At a U.S. base in Jalalabad, Afghanistan, Maya confirms the identity of the corpse. She boards a military transport back to the U.S., the sole passenger. The pilot asks her destination and she begins to cry.\n\nCIA\nUS Navy\nOther\n\nThe film's working title was \"For God and Country\". The title \"Zero Dark Thirty\" was officially confirmed at the end of the film's teaser trailer. Bigelow has explained that \"it's a military term for 30 minutes after midnight, and it refers also to the darkness and secrecy that cloaked the entire decade-long mission.\"\n\nBigelow and Boal had initially worked on and finished a screenplay centered on the December 2001 Battle of Tora Bora, and the long, unsuccessful efforts to find Osama bin Laden in the region. The two were about to begin filming when news broke that bin Laden had been killed.\n\nThey immediately shelved the film they had been working on and redirected their focus, essentially starting from scratch. \"But a lot of the homework I'd done for the first script and a lot of the contacts I made, carried over,\" Boal remarked during an interview with \"Entertainment Weekly\". He added, \"The years I had spent talking to military and intelligence operators involved in counter-terrorism was helpful in both projects. Some of the sourcing I had developed long, long ago continued to be helpful for this version.\"\n\nAlong with painstakingly recreating the historic night-vision raid on the Abbottabad compound, the script and the film stress the little-reported role of the tenacious young female CIA officer who tracked down Osama bin Laden. Screenwriter Boal said that while researching for the film, \"I heard through the grapevine that women played a big role in the CIA in general and in this team. I heard that a woman was there on the night of the raid as one of the CIA's liaison officers on the ground – and that was the start of it.\" He then turned up stories about a young case officer who was recruited out of college, who had spent her entire career chasing bin Laden. Maya's tough-minded, monomaniacal persona, Boal said, is \"based on a real person, but she also represents the work of a lot of other women.\" In December 2014 Jane Mayer of \"The New Yorker\" wrote that \"Maya\" was modeled in part after CIA officer Alfreda Frances Bikowsky.\n\nParts of the film were shot at PEC University of Technology in Chandigarh, India. Some parts of Chandigarh were designed to look like Lahore and Abbottabad in Pakistan, where Osama bin Laden was found and killed on May 2, 2011. Parts of the film were shot in Mani Majra. Local members of Hindu nationalist parties protested, expressing anti-bin Laden and anti-Pakistan sentiments as they objected to Pakistani locations being portrayed on Indian soil.\nFor a lone scene shot in Poland, the city of Gdańsk was reportedly offended for depicting it as a location for the CIA's clandestine and dark operations.\n\nNational security expert Peter Bergen, who reviewed an early cut of the film as an unpaid adviser, said at the time that the film's torture scenes \"were overwrought\". Boal said they were \"toned down\" in the final cut.\n\nAlexandre Desplat composed and conducted the film's score. The score, performed by the London Symphony Orchestra, was released as a soundtrack album by Madison Gate Records on December 19, 2012.\nElectronic Arts promoted \"Zero Dark Thirty\" in its video game \"\" by offering downloadable maps of locations depicted in the film. Additional maps for the game were made available on December 19, to coincide with the film's initial release. Electronic Arts donates $1 to nonprofit organizations that support veterans for each \"Zero Dark Thirty\" map pack sold.\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes the film has an approval rating of 91% based on 279 reviews, with an average rating of 8.6/10. The website's critical consensus reads, \"Gripping, suspenseful, and brilliantly crafted, \"Zero Dark Thirty\" dramatizes the hunt for Osama bin Laden with intelligence and an eye for detail.\" On Metacritic the film has a weighted average score of 95 out of 100, based on 46 critics, indicating \"universal acclaim\". It was the site's best-reviewed film of 2012. Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of \"A–\" on an A+ to F scale.\n\nThe film appeared on 95 critics' top ten lists of 2012, more than any film in its year, whilst 17 had the film in number-one spot.\n\n\"New York Times\" critic Manohla Dargis, who designated the film a \"New York Times\" critics' pick, said that the film \"shows the dark side of that war. It shows the unspeakable and lets us decide if the death of Bin Laden was worth the price we paid.\" Continued Dargis: \n\nThere is much else to say about the movie, which ends with the harrowing siege of Bin Laden's hideaway by the Navy SEALs (played by, among others, Joel Edgerton and Chris Pratt), much of it shot to approximate the queasy, weirdly unreal green of night-vision goggles. Ms. Bigelow's direction here is unexpectedly stunning, at once bold and intimate: she has a genius for infusing even large-scale action set pieces with the human element. One of the most significant images is of a pool of blood on a floor. It's pitiful, really, and as the movie heads toward its emphatically non-triumphant finish, it is impossible not to realize with anguish that all that came before – the pain, the suffering and the compromised ideals – has led to this.\n\nRichard Corliss' review in \"Time\" magazine called it \"a fine\" movie and \"a police procedural on the grand scale\", saying it \"blows \"Argo\" out of the water\". Todd McCarthy of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" said, \"it could well be the most impressive film Bigelow has made, as well as possibly her most personal.\" Peter Debruge of \"Variety\" said: \"The ultra-professional result may be easier to respect than enjoy, but there's no denying its power.\" Critic Katey Rich of \"The Guardian\" said: \"Telling a nearly three-hour story with an ending everyone knows, Bigelow and Boal have managed to craft one of the most intense and intellectually challenging films of the year.\" Calling \"Zero Dark Thirty\" \"a milestone in post-Sept. 11 cinema\", critic A. O. Scott of \"The New York Times\" listed the film at number six of the top 10 films of 2012.\n\n\"The New Yorker\" film critic David Denby lauded the filmmakers for their approach. \"The virtue of \"Zero Dark Thirty\",\" wrote Denby, \"is that it pays close attention to the way life does work; it combines ruthlessness and humanity in a manner that is paradoxical and disconcerting yet satisfying as art.\" But Denby faulted the filmmakers for getting lodged on the divide between fact and fiction.\n\nYet, in attempting to show, in a mainstream movie, the reprehensibility of torture, and what was done in our name, the filmmakers seem to have conflated events, and in this they have generated a sore controversy: the chairs of two Senate committees have said that the information used to find bin Laden was not uncovered through waterboarding. Do such scenes hurt the movie? Not as art; they are expertly done, without flinching from the horror of the acts and without exploitation. But they damage the movie as an alleged authentic account. Bigelow and Boal – the team behind \"The Hurt Locker\" – want to claim the authority of fact and the freedom of fiction at the same time, and the contradiction mars an ambitious project.\n\nSteve Coll criticized the early claims for \"journalism\" with the use of composite characters. He took issue with the film's using the names of historical figures and details of their lives for characters, such as using details for \"Ammar\" to suggest that he was Ali Abdul Aziz Ali, whose \"nom de guerre\" was Ammar al-Baluchi. Coll said the facts about him were different from what was portrayed in the film, which suggests the detainee will never leave the black site. Al-Baluchi was transferred to Guantanamo in 2006 for a military tribunal. Coll writes: \n\nHe has been an active, defiant participant in Guantánamo court proceedings and his lawyers have sought permission from military judges to introduce evidence in his defense that he was tortured while in CIA custody, and to pursue information about the identities of the agency officers who interrogated him.\n\n\"The Washington Post\"'s critic Ann Hornaday, who named \"Zero Dark Thirty\" as the year's best film, noted the divergent takes on the film: \"As Boal and Bigelow gather critics' plaudits and awards, the movie itself has entered a fascinating parallel conversation – part food fight for cable-news channels desperate for post-election fodder, part valuable (if belated) civic debate.\" Writing in the \"Los Angeles Times\", critic Kenneth Turan singled out actress Chastain for her performance. \"Her single-minded ferocity and stubbornness not only prove essential in the hunt, but also make up the emotional through line that engages us in the story of \"Zero Dark Thirty\".\"\n\nWriting in \"The Wall Street Journal\", film critic Joe Morgenstern said:\n\nThis is the work of a commanding filmmaker who is willing, as well as able, to confront a full spectrum of moral ambiguity. [ ... ] Others will debate the facts, but I can tell you that \"Zero Dark Thirty\" does not apologize for torture, any more than it denounces it. What it does in the course of telling a seminal story of our time is what contemporary films so rarely do, serve as brilliant provocation.\n\nRoger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" gave the film three stars out of four and said:\n\nThe film's opening scenes are not great filmmaking. They're heavy on jargon and impenetrable calculation, murky and heavy on theory. [ ... ] My guess is that much of the fascination with this film is inspired by the unveiling of facts, unclearly seen. There isn't a whole lot of plot – basically, just that Maya thinks she is right, and she is.\n\nDavid Edelstein said that \"[a]s a moral statement, \"Zero Dark Thirty\" is borderline fascistic\", but \"[a]s a piece of cinema, it's phenomenally gripping – an unholy masterwork.\" The journalist Matt Taibbi wrote:\n\nThe real problem is what this movie says about us. When those Abu Ghraib pictures came out years ago, at least half of America was horrified. The national consensus (albeit by a frighteningly slim margin) was that this wasn't who we, as a people, wanted to be. But now, four years later, Zero Dark Thirty comes out, and it seems that that we've become so blunted to the horror of what we did and/or are doing at Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo and Bagram and other places that we can accept it, provided we get a boffo movie out of it.\n\nThe film was met with a few negative reviews including the \"Daily Mail\"s Chris Tookey remarking, in a 1/5 star review, that Chastain's character was \"a cold, opaque, one-dimensional figure, as involving as a pre-programmed cyborg.\" while adding that \"There was the opportunity here to examine a complex, important subject central to the history of our time. However, complexity, depth and character are not Ms Bigelow's forte.\"\n\nThe film was also criticized for its factual inaccuracies and its stereotypical portrayal of Pakistan, with dismay being expressed at the botched depiction of, among other things, languages Pakistani nationals speak (Arabic instead of Urdu and other regional languages) and the obsolete headgear they wear.\n\n\"Zero Dark Thirty\" was listed on many critics' top ten lists.\n\n\nit was picked as the 57th greatest film since 2000 in a 2016 critics' poll by BBC.\n\nThe limited release of \"Zero Dark Thirty\" grossed $417,150 in the United States and Canada in only five theaters. A wide release followed on January 11.\n\n\"Entertainment Weekly\" wrote, \"The controversial Oscar contender easily topped the chart in its first weekend of wide release with $24.4 million.\" \"Zero Dark Thirty\" grossed $95,720,716 in the U.S. and Canada, along with $37,100,000 in other countries, for a worldwide total of $132,820,716. It was the top-grossing film of its wide release premiere weekend.\n\n\"Zero Dark Thirty\" was nominated for five Academy Awards at the 85th Academy Awards: Best Picture,\nBest Actress, Best Original Screenplay, Best Sound Editing and Best Film Editing. Paul N. J. Ottosson won the Academy Award for Best Sound Editing, tying with \"Skyfall\". This was only the sixth tie in Academy Awards history, and the first since 1994. \"Zero Dark Thirty\" was nominated for four Golden Globe Awards at the 70th Golden Globe Awards, including Best Motion Picture – Drama, Best Director, Best Screenplay, with Chastain winning Best Actress – Motion Picture Drama.\n\nThe Washington D.C. Area Film Critics Association's award for Best Director was given to Bigelow, the second time the honor has gone to a woman (the first also being Bigelow for \"The Hurt Locker\"). The film swept critics groups' awards for Best Director and Best Picture including the Washington D.C., New York Film Critics Online, Chicago and Boston film critics associations.\n\n\"Zero Dark Thirty\" was released on DVD and Blu-ray Disc on March 19, 2013.\n\nWriter Boal has stated his interest in making the original film on the 2001 Tora Bora hunt for bin Laden that he and Bigelow conceived. That finished screenplay had been set aside after bin Laden was killed in 2011 to focus on what became \"Zero Dark Thirty.\" \"I love reporting, so being on a big story is really exciting to me,\" said Boal, a former war journalist, of his scramble to write a new script after the event. \"But nobody likes to throw out two years of work.\"\n\n\"Zero Dark Thirty\" has received criticism for historical inaccuracy. Former Assistant Secretary of Defense Graham T. Allison has opined that the film is inaccurate in three important regards: the overstatement of the positive role of enhanced interrogation methods, the understatement of the role of the Obama administration, and the portrayal of the efforts as being driven by one agent battling against the CIA \"system\".\n\nOn May 21, 2015, journalist Seymour Hersh reported that the Pakistani Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) had kept bin Laden under house arrest at Abbottabad since 2006, and that Pakistani Army chief Pervez Kayani and ISI director Ahmad Shuja Pasha aided the U.S. mission to kill, not capture bin Laden. Hersh's U.S. and Pakistani intelligence sources stated that the U.S. had learned of bin Laden's location through an ISI walk-in seeking the $25 million reward and not through tracking a courier; this had been previously reported by R.J. Hillhouse and was afterward partly supported by NBC News. The White House denied Hersh's report.\n\nPartisan political controversy arose related to the film before shooting began. Opponents of the Obama Administration charged that \"Zero Dark Thirty\" was scheduled for an October release just before the November presidential election to support his re-election, as Bin Laden's killing is regarded as a success for President Obama. Sony denied that politics was a factor in release scheduling and said the date was the best available spot for an action-thriller in a crowded lineup. The film's screenwriter added, \"the president is not depicted in the movie. He's just not in the movie.\"\n\nThe distributor Columbia Pictures, sensitive to political perceptions, considered rescheduling the film release for as late as early 2013. It set a limited-release date for December 19, 2012, well after the election and rendering moot any alleged political conflict. The nationwide release date was pushed back to January 11, 2013, moving it out of the crowded Christmas period and closer to the Academy Awards. After the film's limited release, given the controversy related to the film's depiction of torture and its role in gaining critical information, \"The New York Times\" columnist Frank Bruni concluded that the film is \"a far, far cry from the rousing piece of pro-Obama propaganda that some conservatives feared it would be\". Two months later, the paper's columnist Roger Cohen wrote that the film was \"a courageous work that is disturbing in the way that art should be\". Cohen disagreed with Steve Coll's critique of the screenwriter's stated effort not to \"play fast and loose with history\", writing that \"Boal has honored those words\". Cohen ended with a note about a Timothy Garton Ash analysis of George Orwell mixing fact and \"invented\" stories in \"Down and Out in Paris and London\" – as further support for Boal's method.\n\nSeveral Republican sources charged the Obama Administration of improperly providing Bigelow and her team access to classified information during their research for the film. These charges, along with charges of other leaks to the media, became a prevalent election season talking point by conservatives. The Republican national convention party platform even claimed Obama \"has tolerated publicizing the details of the operation to kill the leader of Al Qaeda.\" No release of these details has been proven.\n\nThe Republican congressman Peter T. King requested that the CIA and the U.S. Defense Department investigate if classified information was inappropriately released; both departments said they would look into it. The CIA responded to Congressman King writing, \"the protection of national security equities – including the preservation of our ability to conduct effective counterterrorism operations – is the decisive factor in determining how the CIA engages with filmmakers and the media as a whole.\"\n\nThe conservative watchdog group Judicial Watch publicized CIA and U.S. Defense Department documents obtained through a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request, and alleged that \"unusual access to agency information\" was granted to the filmmakers. But, an examination of the documents showed no evidence that classified information was leaked to the filmmakers. In addition, CIA records did not show any involvement by the White House in relation to the filmmakers. The filmmakers have said they were not given access to classified details about Osama bin Laden's killing.\n\nIn January 2013, Reuters reported that the United States Senate Select Committee on Intelligence will review the contacts between the CIA and the filmmakers to find out whether Bigelow and Boal had inappropriate access to classified information. In February, Reuters reported that the inquiry was dropped.\n\nIn June 2013, an unreleased U.S. Defense Department Inspector General's office report stated that former CIA Director Leon Panetta, while giving a presentation at a private awards ceremony, disclosed information classified as \"Secret\" and \"Top Secret\" regarding personnel involved in the raid on the Bin Laden compound.\n\nThe film has been both criticized and praised for its handling of subject matter, including the portrayal of harsh interrogation techniques, commonly classified as torture. The use of these techniques was long kept secret by the Bush administration. (See Torture Memos.) Glenn Greenwald, in \"The Guardian\", stated that the film takes a pro-torture stance, describing it as \"pernicious propaganda\" and stating that it \"presents torture as its CIA proponents and administrators see it: as a dirty, ugly business that is necessary to protect America.\" Critic Frank Bruni concluded that the film appears to suggest \"No waterboarding, no Bin Laden\". Jesse David Fox writes that the film \"doesn't explicitly say that torture caught bin Laden, but in portraying torture as one part of the successful search, it can be read that way.\" Emily Bazelon said, \"The filmmakers didn't set out to be Bush-Cheney apologists\", but \"they adopted a close-to-the-ground point of view, and perhaps they're in denial about how far down the path to condoning torture this led them.\" Journalist Michael Wolff slammed the film as a \"nasty piece of pulp and propaganda\" and Bigelow as a \"fetishist and sadist\" for distorting history with a pro-torture viewpoint. Wolff disputed the efficacy of torture and the claim that it contributed to the discovery of bin Laden. In an open letter, social critic and feminist Naomi Wolf criticized Bigelow for claiming the film was \"part documentary\" and speculated over the reasons for Bigelow's \"amoral compromising\" of film-making, suggesting that the more pro-military a film, the easier it is to acquire Pentagon support for scenes involving expensive, futuristic military equipment. Wolf likened Bigelow to the acclaimed director and propagandist for the Nazi regime, Leni Riefenstahl, saying: \"Like Riefenstahl, you are a great artist. But now you will be remembered forever as torture's handmaiden.\" Author Karen J. Greenberg wrote that \"Bigelow has bought in, hook, line, and sinker, to the ethos of the Bush administration and its apologists\" and called the film \"the perfect piece of propaganda, with all the appeal that naked brutality, fear, and revenge can bring\". Peter Maass of \"The Atlantic\" said the film \"represents a troubling new frontier of government-embedded filmmaking\".\n\nJane Mayer of \"The New Yorker\", who has published \"The Dark Side\", a book about the use of torture during the Bush administration, criticized the film, saying that Bigelow was\n\nmilk[ing] the U.S. torture program for drama while sidestepping the political and ethical debate that it provoked ... [By] excising the moral debate that raged over the interrogation program during the Bush years, the film also seems to accept almost without question that the CIA's 'enhanced interrogation techniques' played a key role in enabling the agency to identify the courier who unwittingly led them to bin Laden.\n\nAuthor Greg Mitchell wrote that \"the film's depiction of torture helping to get bin Laden is muddled at best – but the overall impression by the end, for most viewers, probably will be: Yes, torture played an important (if not the key) role.\" Filmmaker Alex Gibney called the film a \"stylistic masterwork\" but criticized the \"irresponsible and inaccurate\" depiction of torture, writing:\n\nthere is no cinematic evidence in the film that EITs led to false information – lies that were swallowed whole because of the misplaced confidence in the efficacy of torture. Most students of this subject admit that torture can lead to the truth. But what Boal/Bigelow fail to show is how often the CIA deluded itself into believing that torture was a magic bullet, with disastrous results.\n\nPhilosopher Slavoj Žižek, in an article for \"The Guardian\", criticized what he perceived a \"normalization\" of torture in the film, arguing that the mere neutrality on an issue many see as revolting is already a type of endorsement \"per se\". Žižek proposed that if a similar film was made about a brutal rape or the Holocaust, such a movie would \"embody a deeply immoral fascination with its topic, or it would count on the obscene neutrality of its style to engender dismay and horror in spectators.\" Žižek further panned Bigelow's stance of coldly presenting the issue in a rational manner, instead of being dogmatically rejected as a repulsive, unethical proposition.\n\nJournalist Steve Coll, who has written on foreign policy, national security and the bin Laden family, criticized the filmmakers for saying the film was \"journalistic\", which implies that it is based in fact. At the same time, they claimed artistic license, which he described \"as an excuse for shoddy reporting about a subject as important as whether torture had a vital part in the search for bin Laden\". Coll wrote that \"arguably, the film's degree of emphasis on torture's significance goes beyond what even the most die-hard defenders of the CIA interrogation regime [...] have argued\", as he said it was shown as critical at several points.\n\nU.S. Senator John McCain, who was tortured during his time as a prisoner of war in North Vietnam, said that the film left him sick – \"because it's wrong\". In a speech in the Senate, he said, \"Not only did the use of enhanced interrogation techniques on Khalid Sheikh Mohammed not provide us with key leads on bin Laden's courier, Abu Ahmed, it actually produced false and misleading information.\" McCain and fellow senators Dianne Feinstein and Carl Levin sent a critical letter to Michael Lynton, chairman of the film's distributor, Sony Pictures Entertainment, stating, \"[W]ith the release of \"Zero Dark Thirty\", the filmmakers and your production studio are perpetuating the myth that torture is effective. You have a social and moral obligation to get the facts right.\"\n\nMichael Morell, the CIA's acting director, sent a public letter on December 21, 2012 to the agency's employees, which said that \"Zero Dark Thirty\"\n\ntakes significant artistic license, while portraying itself as being historically accurate ... [The film] creates the strong impression that the enhanced interrogation techniques that were part of our former detention and interrogation program were the key to finding . That impression is false. ( ... ) [T]he truth is that multiple streams of intelligence led CIA analysts to conclude that was hiding in Abbottabad. Some came from detainees subjected to enhanced techniques, but there were many other sources as well. And, importantly, whether enhanced interrogation techniques were the only timely and effective way to obtain information from those detainees, as the film suggests, is a matter of debate that cannot and never will be definitively resolved.\n\n\"The Huffington Post\" writer, G. Roger Denson, countered this, saying that the filmmakers were being made scapegoats for information openly admitted by government and intelligence officials. Denson said that Leon Panetta, three days after Osama bin Laden's death, seemed to say that waterboarding was a means of extracting reliable and crucial information in the hunt for bin Laden. Denson noted Panetta speaking as the CIA chief in May 2011, saying that \"enhanced interrogation techniques were used to extract information that led to the mission's success\". Panetta said waterboarding was among the techniques used. In a \"Huffington Post\" article written a week later, Denson cited other statements from Bush government officials saying that torture had yielded information to locate bin Laden.\n\nNational security reporter Spencer Ackerman said the film \"does not present torture as a silver bullet that led to bin Laden; it presents torture as the ignorant alternative to that silver bullet\". Critic Glenn Kenny said that he \"saw a movie that subverted a lot of expectations concerning viewer identification and empathy\" and that \"rather than endorsing the barbarity, the picture makes the viewer in a sense complicit with it\", which is \"[a] whole other can of worms\". Writer Andrew Sullivan said, \"the movie is not an apology for torture, as so many have said, and as I have worried about. It is an \"exposure\" of torture. It removes any doubt that war criminals ran this country for seven years\". Filmmaker Michael Moore similarly said, \"I left the movie thinking it made an incredible statement against torture\", and noted that the film showed the abject brutality of torture. Critic Andrew O'Hehir said that the filmmaker's position on torture in the film is ambiguous, and creative choices were made and the film poses \"excellent questions for us to ask ourselves, arguably defining questions of the age, and I think the longer you look at them the thornier they get\".\n\nScreenwriter Boal described the pro-torture accusations as \"preposterous\", stating that \"it's just misreading the film to say that it shows torture leading to the information about bin Laden\", while director Bigelow added: \"Do I wish [torture] was not part of that history? Yes. But it was.\" In February 2013 in the \"Wall Street Journal\", Boal responded to the Senate critics, being quoted as saying \"[D]oes that mean they can use the movie as a political platform to talk about what they've been wanting to talk about for years and years and years? Do I think that Feinstein used the movie as a publicity tool to get a conversation going about her report? I believe it, ... \" referring to the intelligence committee's report on enhanced interrogations. He also said the senators' letter showed they were still concerned about public opinion supporting the effectiveness of torture and didn't want the movie reinforcing that. Boal said, though, \"I don't think that [effectiveness] issue has really been resolved\" if there is a suspect with possible knowledge of imminent attack who will not talk.\n\nWriter Mark Bowden argued that the film is neither pro- nor anti-torture: \"[P]ure storytelling is not always about making an argument, no matter how worthy. It can be simply about telling the truth.\" In an interview with \"Time\" magazine, Bigelow said: \"I'm proud of the movie, and I stand behind it completely. I think that it's a deeply moral movie that questions the use of force. It questions what was done in the name of finding bin Laden.\" In a 2013 interview on \"The Colbert Report\", Bigelow said the film showed many techniques of intelligence gathering used to find bin Laden, such as electronic surveillance, troops at the ground level, and \"good, old-fashioned, boots-on-the-ground sleuthing\".\n\nAn extensive clip of the phone call to headquarters from Betty Ong, a flight attendant on one of the hijacked American Airlines planes, was used in the beginning of the film without attribution. Ong's family requested that, if the film won any awards, the filmmakers apologize at the Academy Awards ceremony for using the clip without getting her heirs' consent. Her family also asked that the film's U.S. distributors make a charitable donation in Ong's name, and should go on record that the Ong family does not endorse the use of torture, which is depicted in the film during the search for Osama bin Laden.\n\nMary and Frank Fetchet, parents of Brad Fetchet, who worked on the 89th floor of the World Trade Center's south tower, criticized the filmmakers for using a recording of their son's voicemail without permission. The recording has previously been heard in broadcast TV news reports and in testimony for the 9/11 Commission.\n\n\n\n"}
