{"id": "33788086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33788086", "title": "1979 Australian Rally Championship", "text": "1979 Australian Rally Championship\n\nThe 1979 Australian Rally Championship was a series of five rallying events held across Australia. It was the twelfth season in the history of the competition.\n\nRoss Dunkerton and navigator Jeff Beaumont in the Datsun Stanza won the 1979 Championship.\n\nThe twelfth Australian Rally Championship was held over five events across Australia, the season consisting of one event each for New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia and West Australia. The 1979 season saw the Datsun Stanzas of Dunkerton and Fury regain some of their dominance with the main challenge from the Ford Escort of Greg Carr.\n\nThe five events of the 1979 season were as follows.\n\nFinal pointscore for 1979 is as follows.\n\n"}
{"id": "46530400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46530400", "title": "2004 Pan American Judo Championships", "text": "2004 Pan American Judo Championships\n\nThe 2004 Pan American Judo Championships in Margarita Island, Venezuela from 19th April to 24th April 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "15111824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15111824", "title": "Bachar ladder", "text": "Bachar ladder\n\nThe Bachar ladder is a form of rope ladder used as a training device by rock climbers to improve overall upper body strength.\n\nNamed after noted free soloist John Bachar, Bachar ladders typically consist of PVC rungs joined by webbing or cord to create an unstable structure similar to the ratlines of a sailing ship. However, unlike ascending ratlines leaning inward using one's legs for upward progress and arms for steadying, the Bachar Ladder is typically hung at an overhanging angle of 20-45° and climbed from below using only the arms.\n\nWhereas the campus board focuses more on powerful, sometimes far reaching movements, the Bachar ladder differs in that it swings slightly when it is being climbed, requiring the climber to use more core tension to maintain stability.\n\nFor athletes who have practiced pulling movements using only fixed or stable points, the Bachar ladder can improve strength and efficiency of climbing/pulling movements. It produces greater engagement of core musculature, benefiting shoulder stability, improving motor unit recruitment when pulling and proprioception. It could present an increased risk of elbow and shoulder joint tendon/ligament injury for users who are inexperienced or lack proper pulling mechanics such as poor shoulder range of motion.\n\n"}
{"id": "7882496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7882496", "title": "Bachelor of Physical Education", "text": "Bachelor of Physical Education\n\nA Bachelor of Physical Education (BPE or BPhEd) is a bachelor degree granted by some universities. In many Canadian universities it has been replaced by a Bachelor of Kinesiology. The degree can include topics such as sport science, coaching, and outdoor education. In India, Bachelor of Physical Education Degree is known as B.P.Ed. or B.P.E.. There are two levels at which this degree is offered. Some Indian Institutes offer a 1 or 2-years B.P.Ed. which can be pursued only after graduation. While some Institutes offer a 3–4 years of B.P.E. which requires 10+2 as eligibility criteria.\n"}
{"id": "7521527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7521527", "title": "Belgium at the 1932 Summer Olympics", "text": "Belgium at the 1932 Summer Olympics\n\nBelgium competed at the 1932 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles, United States. 36 competitors, 29 men and 7 women, took part in 10 events in 2 sports.\n\nSeven fencers, six men and a woman, represented Austria in 1932.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18948180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18948180", "title": "Bulgarian Sportsperson of the Year", "text": "Bulgarian Sportsperson of the Year\n\nBulgarian Sportsperson of the Year (, \"Sportist na godinata na Balgariya\") is an annual award given to the best Bulgarian sportsperson of the year. The winner is selected by authorized journalists. The award was established by the \"Naroden Sport\" newspaper and specifically by Aleksandar Yasnikov. It was first given in 1958 to the basketball player Vanya Voynova. The person with the most awards is high-jumper Stefka Kostadinova with four. Traditionally, the award is given at the Sportsperson of the Year Ball which is attended by journalists, sportspeople, social figures, intellectuals, etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "48875209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48875209", "title": "Cimarrones de Sonora Premier", "text": "Cimarrones de Sonora Premier\n\nThe Cimarrones de Sonora Fútbol Club Premier play in the Liga Premier in Hermosillo, Sonora, Mexico and are the official reserve team for Cimarrones de Sonora. The games are held in the city of Hermosillo in the Estadio Miguel Castro Servín.\n"}
{"id": "39173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39173", "title": "Commonwealth Games", "text": "Commonwealth Games\n\nThe Commonwealth Games are an international multi-sport event involving athletes from the Commonwealth of Nations. The event was first held in 1930, and has taken place every four years since then. The Commonwealth Games were known as the British Empire Games from 1930 to 1950, the British Empire and Commonwealth Games from 1954 to 1966, and British Commonwealth Games from 1970 to 1974. It is the world's first multi-sport event which inducted equal number of women’s and men’s medal events and was implemented recently in the 2018 Commonwealth Games.\n\nTheir creation was inspired by the Inter-Empire Championships, as a part of the Festival of Empire, which were held in London, United Kingdom in 1911. Melville Marks Robinson founded the games as the British Empire Games which were first hosted in Hamilton in 1930. During the 20th and 21st centuries, the evolution of the games movement has resulted in several changes to the Commonwealth Games. Some of these adjustments include the creation of the Commonwealth Winter Games for snow and ice sports for the commonwealth athletes, the Commonwealth Paraplegic Games for commonwealth athletes with a disability and the Commonwealth Youth Games for commonwealth athletes aged 14 to 18. The first edition of the winter games and paraplegic games were held in 1958 and 1962 respectively, with their last edition held in 1966 and 1974 respectively and the first youth games were held in 2000. The 1942 and 1946 Commonwealth Games were cancelled because of the second world war.\n\nThe Commonwealth Games are overseen by the Commonwealth Games Federation (CGF), which also controls the sporting programme and selects the host cities. The games movement consists of international sports federations (IFs), (CGAs), and organising committees for each specific Commonwealth Games. There are several rituals and symbols, such as the Commonwealth Games flag and Queen's Baton, as well as the opening and closing ceremonies. Over 5,000 athletes compete at the Commonwealth Games in more than 15 different sports and more than 250 events. The first, second, and third-place finishers in each event receive Commonwealth Games medals: gold, silver, and bronze, respectively. Apart from many Olympic sports, the games also include some sports that are played predominantly in Commonwealth countries but which are not part of the Olympic programme, such as lawn bowls, netball and squash.\n\nAlthough there are currently 53 members of the Commonwealth of Nations, 71 teams currently participate in the Commonwealth Games, as a number of dependent territories compete under their own flags. The four Home Nations of the United Kingdom—England, Scotland, Wales, and Northern Ireland—also send separate teams.\n\nNineteen cities in nine countries (counting England, Wales, and Scotland separately) have hosted the event. Australia has hosted the Commonwealth Games five times (1938, 1962, 1982, 2006 and 2018); this is more times than any other nation. Two cities have hosted Commonwealth Games more than once: Auckland (1950, 1990) and Edinburgh (1970, 1986).\n\nOnly six countries have attended every Commonwealth Games: Australia, Canada, England, New Zealand, Scotland, and Wales. Australia has been the highest achieving team for twelve games, England for seven, and Canada for one.\n\nThe most recent Commonwealth Games were held in Gold Coast from 4 to 15 April 2018. The next Commonwealth Games are to be held in Birmingham from 27 July to 7 August 2022.\n\nA sporting competition bringing together the members of the British Empire was first proposed by John Astley Cooper in 1900, when he wrote an article in \"The Times\" suggesting a \"Pan-Britannic-Pan-Anglican Contest and Festival every four years as a means of increasing goodwill and good understanding of the British Empire\". John Astley Cooper Committees were formed worldwide (e.g. Australia) and helped Pierre de Coubertin to get his international Olympic Games off the ground. In 1911, the Festival of the Empire was held at The Crystal Palace in London to celebrate the coronation of George V. As part of the Festival of the Empire, an Inter-Empire Championships were held in which teams from Australia, Canada, South Africa, and the United Kingdom competed in athletics, boxing, wrestling and swimming events.\n\nCanada won the championships and was gifted a silver cup which was 2 feet 6 inch high and weighed 340 oz (9.6 kg). It was gifted by Lord Lonsdale. However, the 1911 championships were followed by the first world war which happened from 1914 to 1918. The organisers had lost hopes of hosting such sporting events for the empire athletes. \n\nMelville Marks Robinson, who went to the 1928 Summer Olympics in Amsterdam to serve as the manager of the Canadian track and field team, strongly lobbied for the proposal of organising the first British Empire Games in Hamilton in 1930.\n\nThe 1930 British Empire Games were the first of what later become known as the Commonwealth Games, and were held in Hamilton, in the province of Ontario in Canada from August 16–23, 1930. \n\nEleven countries sent a total of 400 athletes to the Hamilton Games. The opening and closing ceremonies as well as athletics took place at Civic Stadium. The participant nations were Australia, Bermuda, British Guyana, Canada, England, Northern Ireland, Newfoundland, New Zealand, Scotland, South Africa and Wales. The Hamilton Games featured six sports: athletics, boxing, lawn bowls, rowing, swimming and diving and wrestling and ran at a cost of $97,973. Women competed in only the aquatic events. Canadian triple jumper Gordon Smallacombe won the first ever gold medal in the history of the Games. \nThe 1934 British Empire Games were the second of what is now known as the Commonwealth Games, held in London, England. The host city was London, with the main venue at Wembley Park, although the track cycling events were in Manchester. The 1934 Games had originally been awarded to Johannesburg, but were given to London instead because of serious concerns about prejudice against black and Asian athletes in South Africa. Seventeen national teams took part, including the Irish Free State (the only Games in which they did take part) and new participants Hong Kong, India, Jamaica, Southern Rhodesia and Trinidad and Tobago.\n\nThe 1938 British Empire Games were the third British Empire Games, which were held in Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. They were timed to coincide with Sydney's sesqui-centenary (150 years since the foundation of British settlement in Australia). Held in the southern hemisphere for the first time, the III Games opening ceremony took place at the famed Sydney Cricket Ground in front of 40,000 spectators. Fifteen nations participated down under at the Sydney Games involving a total of 464 athletes and 43 officials. Fiji and Ceylon made their debuts. Seven sports were featured in the Sydney Games – athletics, boxing, cycling, lawn bowls, rowing, swimming and diving and wrestling.\n\nThe 1950 British Empire Games were the fourth edition and was held in Auckland, New Zealand after a 12-year gap from the third edition of the games. The fourth games were originally awarded to Montreal, Canada and were to be held in 1942 but were cancelled due to the Second World War. The opening ceremony at Eden Park was attended by 40,000 spectators, while nearly 250,000 people attended the Auckland Games. Twelve countries sent a total of 590 athletes to Auckland. Malaya and Nigeria made their first appearances.\n\nThe fifth edition of the games, the 1954 British Empire and Commonwealth Games, were held in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. These were the first games since the name change from British Empire Games took effect in 1952. The fifth edition of the Games placed Vancouver on a world stage and featured memorable sporting moments as well as outstanding entertainment, technical innovation and cultural events. The ‘Miracle Mile’, as it became known, saw both the gold medallist, Roger Bannister of England and silver medallist John Landy of Australia, run sub-four minute races in an event that was televised live across the world for the first time. Northern Rhodesia and Pakistan made their debuts and both performed well, winning eight and six medals respectively.\n\nThe 1958 British Empire and Commonwealth Games were held in Cardiff, Wales. The sixth edition of the games marked the largest sporting event ever held in Wales and it was the smallest country ever to host a British Empire and Commonwealth Games. Cardiff had to wait 12 years longer than originally scheduled to become host of the Games, as the 1946 event was cancelled because of the Second World War. The Cardiff Games introduced the Queen's Baton Relay, which has been conducted as a prelude to every British Empire and Commonwealth Games ever since. Thirty-five nations sent a total of 1,122 athletes and 228 officials to the Cardiff Games and 23 countries and dependencies won medals, including for the first time, Singapore, Ghana, Kenya and the Isle of Man.\n\nThe 1962 British Empire and Commonwealth Games were held in Perth, Western Australia, Australia. Thirty-five countries sent a total of 863 athletes and 178 officials to Perth. Jersey was among the medal winners for the first time, while British Honduras, Dominica, Papua and New Guinea and St Lucia all made their inaugural Games appearances. Aden also competed by special invitation. Sarawak, North Borneo and Malaya competed for the last time before taking part in 1966 under the Malaysian flag. In addition, Rhodesia and Nyasaland competed in the Games as an entity for the first and only time.\n\nThe 1966 British Empire and Commonwealth Games were held in Kingston, Jamaica. This was the first time that the Games had been held outside the so-called White Dominions. Thirty-four nations (including South Arabia) competed in the Kingston Games sending a total of 1,316 athletes and officials.\n\nThe 1970 British Commonwealth Games were held in Edinburgh, Scotland. This was the first time the name British Commonwealth Games was adopted, the first time metric units rather than imperial units were used in events, the first time the games were held in Scotland and also the first time that HM Queen Elizabeth II attended in her capacity as Head of the Commonwealth.\n\nThe 1974 British Commonwealth Games were held in Christchurch, New Zealand. The Games were officially named \"the friendly games\". Following the massacre of Israeli athletes at the 1972 Munich Olympics, the tenth games at Christchurch were the first multi-sport event to place the safety of participants and spectators as its uppermost requirement. Security guards surrounded the athlete’s village and there was an exceptionally high-profile police presence. Only 22 countries succeeded in winning medals from the total haul of 374 medals on offer, but first time winners included Western Samoa, Lesotho and Swaziland.\n\nThe 1978 Commonwealth Games were held in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. This event was the first to bear the current day name of the Commonwealth Games and also marked a new high as almost 1,500 athletes from 46 countries took part. They were boycotted by Nigeria in protest of New Zealand's sporting contacts with apartheid-era South Africa, as well as by Uganda in protest of alleged Canadian hostility towards the government of Idi Amin.\n\nThe 1982 Commonwealth Games were held in Brisbane, Queensland, Australia. Forty-six nations participated in the Brisbane Games with a new record total of 1,583 athletes and 571 officials. As hosts, Australia headed the medal table leading the way ahead of England, Canada, Scotland and New Zealand respectively. Zimbabwe made its first appearance at the Games, having earlier competed as Southern Rhodesia and as part of Rhodesia and Nyasaland.\n\nThe 1986 Commonwealth Games were held in Edinburgh, Scotland and were the second Games to be held in Edinburgh. Participation at the 1986 Games was affected by a boycott by 32 African, Asian and Caribbean nations in protest of British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's refusal to condemn sporting contacts of apartheid era South Africa in 1985, but the Games rebounded and continued to grow thereafter. Twenty-six nations did attend the second Edinburgh Games and sent a total of 1,662 athletes and 461 officials.\n\nThe 1990 Commonwealth Games were held in Auckland, New Zealand. It was the fourteenth Commonwealth Games, the third to be hosted by New Zealand and Auckland’s second. A new record of 55 nations participated in the second Auckland Games sending 2,826 athletes and officials. Pakistan returned to the Commonwealth in 1989 after withdrawing in 1972, and competed in the 1990 Games after an absence of twenty years.\n\nThe 1994 Commonwealth Games were held in Victoria, British Columbia, the fourth to take place in Canada. The games marked South Africa's return to the Commonwealth Games following the apartheid era, and over 30 years since the country last competed in the Games in 1958. Namibia made its Commonwealth Games debut. It was also Hong Kong's last appearance at the games before the transfer of sovereignty from Britain to China. Sixty-three nations sent 2,557 athletes and 914 officials.\n\nThe 1998 Commonwealth Games were held in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. For the first time in its 68-year history, the Commonwealth Games were held in Asia. The sixteenth games were also the first Games to feature team sports - an overwhelming success that added large numbers to both participant and TV audience numbers. A new record of 70 countries sent a total of 5,065 athletes and officials to the Kuala Lumpur Games. The top five countries in the medal standing were Australia, England, Canada, Malaysia and South Africa. Nauru also achieved an impressive haul of three gold medals. Cameroon, Mozambique and Kiribati debuted.\n\nThe 2002 Commonwealth Games were held in Manchester, England. The 2002 Games were to be hosted in England to coincide with the Golden Jubilee of Elizabeth II, head of the Commonwealth. In terms of sports and events, the 2002 Games were until the 2010 edition the largest Commonwealth Games in history featuring 281 events across 17 sports. The final medal tally was led by Australia, followed by host England and Canada. The 2002 Commonwealth Games had set a new benchmark for hosting the Commonwealth Games and for cities wishing to bid for them with a heavy emphasis on legacy.\nThe 2006 Commonwealth Games were held in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. The only difference between the 2006 games and the 2002 games was the absence of Zimbabwe, which withdrew from the Commonwealth of Nations. For the first time in the history of the Games the Queen's Baton visited every single Commonwealth nation and territory taking part in the Games, a journey of 180,000 km (112,500 miles). Over 4000 athletes took part in the sporting competitions. Again the Top 3 on the medal table is Australia, followed by England and Canada.\n\nThe 2010 Commonwealth Games were held in Delhi, India. The Games cost $11 billion and are the most expensive Commonwealth Games ever. It was the first time that the Commonwealth Games were held in India,also the first time that a Commonwealth Republic hosted the games and the second time they were held in Asia after Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia in 1998. A total of 6,081 athletes from 71 Commonwealth nations and dependencies competed in 21 sports and 272 events. The final medal tally was led by Australia. The host nation India achieved its best performance ever in any sporting event, finishing second overall. Rwanda made its Games debut.\n\nThe 2014 Commonwealth Games were held in Glasgow, Scotland. It was the largest multi-sport event ever held in Scotland with around 4,950 athletes from 71 different nations and territories competing in 18 different sports, outranking the 1970 and 1986 Commonwealth Games in Edinburgh, capital city of Scotland. Usain Bolt competed in the 4×100 metres relay of the 2014 Commonwealth Games and set a Commonwealth Games record with his teammates. The Games received acclaim for their organisation, attendance, and the public enthusiasm of the people of Scotland, with Commonwealth Games Federation chief executive Mike Hooper hailing them as \"the standout games in the history of the movement\".\n\nThe 2018 Commonwealth Games were held in Gold Coast, Queensland, Australia, the fifth time Australia hosted the Games. There were an equal number of events for men and women, the first time in history that a major multi-sport event had equality in terms of events.\n\nThe 2022 Commonwealth Games will be held in Birmingham, England. They will be the third Commonwealth Games to be hosted in England following London 1934 and Manchester 2002.\n\nThe three nations to have hosted the Commonwealth Games the most times are Australia (5), Canada (4) and New Zealand (3). Furthermore, six editions have taken place in the countries within the United Kingdom (Scotland (3), England (2) and Wales (1)), twice in Asia (Malaysia (1) and India (1)) and once in the Caribbean (Jamaica (1)).\n\nThe Commonwealth Paraplegic Games were an international, multi-sport event involving athletes with a disability from the Commonwealth countries. The event was sometimes referred to as the Paraplegic Empire Games and British Commonwealth Paraplegic Games. Athletes were generally those with spinal injuries or polio. The event was first held in 1962 and disestablished in 1974. The Games were held in the country hosting the Commonwealth Games for able-bodied athletes. The countries that had hosted the Commonwealth Paraplegic Games were Australia, Jamaica, Scotland and New Zealand in 1962, 1966, 1970 and 1974 respectively. Six countries — Australia, England, New Zealand, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales — had been represented at all Commonwealth Paraplegic Games. Australia and England had been the top-ranking nation two times each: 1962, 1974 and 1966, 1970 respectively.\n\nAthletes with a disability were then first included in exhibition events at the 1994 Commonwealth Games in Victoria, British Columbia, and, at the 2002 Commonwealth Games in Manchester, England, they were included as full members of their national teams, making them the first fully inclusive international multi-sport games. This meant that results were included in the medal count.\n\nDuring the 2007 General Assembly of the Commonwealth Games Federation (CGF) at Colombo, Sri Lanka, the International Paralympic Committee (IPC) and CGF signed a co-operative agreement to ensure a formal institutional relationship between the two bodies and secure the future participation of elite athletes with a disability (EAD) in future Commonwealth Games.\n\nIPC President Philip Craven said during the General Assembly:\n\nThe co-operation agreement outlined the strong partnership between the IPC and the CGF. It recognized the IPC as the organization for overseeing the co-ordination and delivery of the Commonwealth Games EAD sports programme and committed both organizations to work together in supporting the growth of the Paralympic and Commonwealth Games Movements.\n\nThe Commonwealth Winter Games were a multi-sport event comprising winter sports, last held in 1966. Three editions of the Games have been staged. The Winter Games were designed as a counterbalance to the Commonwealth Games, which focuses on summer sports, to accompany the Winter Olympics and Summer Olympic Games. The winter Games were founded by T.D. Richardson. The 1958 Commonwealth Winter Games were held in St. Moritz, Switzerland and was the inaugural games for the winter edition. The 1962 Games were also held in St. Moritz, complementing the 1962 British Empire and Commonwealth Games in Perth, Australia, and the 1966 event was held in St. Moritz as well, following which the idea was discontinued.\n\nThe Commonwealth Youth Games are an international multi-sport event organized by the Commonwealth Games Federation. The games are held every four years with the current Commonwealth Games format. The Commonwealth Games Federation discussed the idea of a Millennium Commonwealth Youth Games in 1997. In 1998 the concept was agreed on for the purpose of providing a Commonwealth multi-sport event for young people born in the calendar year 1986 or later. The first version was held in Edinburgh, Scotland from 10 to 14 August 2000. The age limitation of the athletes is 14 to 18.\n\nThe Commonwealth Games Federation (CGF) is the international organisation responsible for the direction and control of the Commonwealth Games and Commonwealth Youth Games, and is the foremost authority in matters relating to the games. The Commonwealth House in London, United Kingdom hosts the headquarters of CGF. The Commonwealth House also hosts the headquarters of the Royal Commonwealth Society and the Commonwealth Local Government Forum.\n\nThe Commonwealth Games Movement is made of three major elements:\n\nEnglish is the official language of the Commonwealth. The other language used at each Commonwealth Games is the language of the host country (or languages, if a country has more than one official language apart from English). Every proclamation (such as the announcement of each country during the parade of nations in the opening ceremony) is spoken in these two (or more) languages, or the main depending on whether the host country is an English speaking country.\n\nThe Queen's Baton Relay, is a relay around the world held prior to the beginning of the Commonwealth Games. The Baton carries a message from the Head of the Commonwealth, currently Queen Elizabeth II. The Relay traditionally begins at Buckingham Palace in London as a part of the city's Commonwealth Day festivities. The Queen entrusts the baton to the first relay runner. At the Opening Ceremony of the Games, the final relay runner hands the baton back to the Queen or her representative, who reads the message aloud to officially open the Games. The Queen's Baton Relay is similar to the Olympic Torch Relay.\n\nThe Relay was introduced at the 1958 British Empire and Commonwealth Games in Cardiff, Wales. Up until, and including, the 1994 Games, the Relay only went through England and the host nation. The Relay for the 1998 Games in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia was the first to travel to other nations of the Commonwealth. The Gold Coast 2018 Queen’s Baton Relay was the longest in Commonwealth Games history. Covering 230,000 km over 388 days, the Baton made its way through the six Commonwealth regions of Africa, the Americas, the Caribbean, Europe, Asia and Oceania. For the first time, the Queen's Baton was presented at the Commonwealth Youth Games during its sixth edition in 2017 which were held in Nassau, Bahamas.\n\nVarious elements frame the opening ceremony of the Commonwealth Games. This ceremony takes place before the events have occurred. The ceremony typically starts with the hoisting of the host country's flag and a performance of its national anthem. The flag of the Commonwealth Games Federation, flag of the last hosting nation and the next hosting nation are also hosted during the opening ceremony. The host nation then presents artistic displays of music, singing, dance and theatre representative of its culture. The artistic presentations have grown in scale and complexity as successive hosts attempt to provide a ceremony that outlasts its predecessor's in terms of memorability. The opening ceremony of the Delhi Games reportedly cost $70 million, with much of the cost incurred in the artistic segment.\n\nAfter the artistic portion of the ceremony, the athletes parade into the stadium grouped by nation. The last hosting nation is traditionally the first nation to enter. Nations then enter the stadium alphabetical or continental wise with the host country's athletes being the last to enter. Speeches are given, formally opening the Games. Finally, the Queen's Baton is brought into the stadium and passed on until it reaches the final baton carrier, often a successful Commonwealth athlete from the host nation, who hands it over to the Head of the Commonwealth or their representative.\n\nThe closing ceremony of the Commonwealth Games takes place after all sporting events have concluded. Flag-bearers from each participating country enter the stadium, followed by the athletes who enter together, without any national distinction. The president of the organizing committee and the CGF president make their closing speeches and the Games are officially closed. The CGF president also speaks about the conduct of the games. The mayor of the city that organized the Games transfers the CGF flag to the president of the CGF, who then passes it on to the mayor of the city hosting the next Commonwealth Games. The next host nation then also briefly introduces itself with artistic displays of dance and theater representative of its culture. Many great artists and singers had performed at the ceremonies of the Commonwealth Games.\n\nAt the closing ceremony of every Commonwealth Games the CGF President makes an award and presents a trophy to one athlete who has competed with particular distinction and honour both in terms of athletic performance and overall contribution to his or her team. Athletes are nominated by their Commonwealth Games Association at the end of the final day of competition and the winner is selected by a panel comprising the CGF President and representatives from each of the six Commonwealth Regions. The ‘David Dixon Award’ as it is called was introduced in Manchester 2002, after the late David Dixon, former Honorary Secretary of the CGF, in honour of his monumental contribution to Commonwealth sport for many years.\n\nA medal ceremony is held after each event is concluded. The winner, second and third-place competitors or teams stand on top of a three-tiered rostrum to be awarded their respective medals. After the medals are given out by a CGF member, the national flags of the three medallists are raised while the national anthem of the gold medallist's country plays. Volunteering citizens of the host country also act as hosts during the medal ceremonies, as they aid the officials who present the medals and act as flag-bearers.\n\n\"Note: The 1911 Inter-Empire Championships held in London is seen as a precursor to the modern Commonwealth Games, but is not normally considered an official edition of the Games themselves. Also, the United Kingdom competed as one country, unlike the Commonwealth Games today when they compete as England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland. Canada topped the medal table by winning 4 events.\"\n\nBelow is a Top 10 all-time medal table.\n\nThere are a total of 22 sports (with three multi-disciplinary sports) and a further seven para-sports which are approved by the Commonwealth Games Federation. Core sports must be included on each programme. A number of optional sports may be picked by the host nation, which may include some team sports such as basketball.\n\nIn 2015, the Commonwealth Games Federation agreed large changes to the programme which increased the number of core sports, whilst removing a number of optionals, those removed are listed below.\n\nRecognised sports are sports which have been approved by the Commonwealth Games Federation but which are deemed to need expansion; host nations may not pick these sports for their programme until the Federation's requirements are fulfilled.\n\nOnly six teams have attended every Commonwealth Games: Australia, Canada, England, New Zealand, Scotland and Wales. Australia has been the highest scoring team for thirteen games, England for seven and Canada for one.\n\nVery few Commonwealth dependencies and nations have yet to take part:\n\nThe 1934 British Empire Games, originally awarded in 1930 to Johannesburg was moved to London after South Africa's pre-apartheid government refused to allow nonwhite participants.\n\nThe 2022 Commonwealth Games were originally awarded to Durban on 2 September 2015, at the CGF General Assembly in Auckland. It was reported in February 2017 that Durban may be unable to host the games due to financial constraints. On 13 March 2017, the CGF stripped Durban of their rights to host and reopened the bidding process for the 2022 games. Many cities from Australia, Canada, England and Malaysia expressed interest to host the games. However, the CGF received only one official bid and that was from Birmingham, England. On 21 December 2017, Birmingham was awarded for the 2022 Games as Durban's replacement host. \n\nNigeria boycotted the 1978 Commonwealth Games at Edmonton in protest of New Zealand's sporting contacts with apartheid-era South Africa. Uganda also stayed away, in protest of alleged Canadian hostility towards the government of Idi Amin.\nDuring the 1986 Commonwealth Games at Edinburgh, a majority of the Commonwealth nations staged a boycott, so that the Games appeared to be a whites-only event. Thirty two of the eligible fifty nine countries—largely African, Asian and Caribbean states—stayed away because of the Thatcher government's policy of keeping Britain's sporting links with apartheid South Africa in preference to participating in the general sporting boycott of that country. Consequently, Edinburgh 1986 witnessed the lowest number of athletes since Auckland 1950. The boycotting nations were Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Bahamas, Bangladesh, Bermuda, Belize, Cyprus, Dominica, Gambia, Ghana, Guyana, Grenada, India, Jamaica, Kenya, Malaysia, Nigeria, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Sri Lanka, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Sierra Leone, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, Mauritius, Trinidad and Tobago, Tanzania, Turks and Caicos Islands, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe. Bermuda was a particularly late withdrawal, as its athletes appeared in the opening ceremony and in the opening day of competition before the Bermuda Olympic Association decided to formally withdraw.\n\nThe estimated cost of the 2010 Commonwealth Games in Delhi were US$11 billion, according to \"Business Today\" magazine. The initial total budget estimated by the Indian Olympic Association in 2003 was US$250 million. In 2010, however, the official total budget soon escalated to an estimated US$1.8 billion, a figure which excluded non-sports-related infrastructure development. The 2010 Commonwealth Games are reportedly the most expensive Commonwealth Games ever.\n\nLawn bowler Willie Wood from Scotland was the first competitor to have competed in seven Commonwealth Games, from 1974 to 2002, a record equalled in 2014 by Isle of Man cyclist Andrew Roche.\n\nThey have both been surpassed by David Calvert of Northern Ireland who in 2018 attended his 11th games.\n\nGreg Yelavich, a sports shooter from New Zealand, has won 12 medals in seven games from 1986 to 2010.\n\nLawn Bowler Robert Weale has represented Wales in 8 Commonwealth Games, 1986–2014, winning 2 gold, 3 silver and 1 bronze.\n\nNauruan weightlifter Marcus Stephen won twelve medals at the Games between 1990 and 2002, of which seven gold, and was elected President of Nauru in 2007. His performance has helped place Nauru (the smallest independent state in the Commonwealth, at 21 km and with a population of fewer than 9,400 in 2011) in nineteenth place on the all-time Commonwealth Games medal table.\n\nIan Thorpe, Australian swimmer (now retired), has won 10 Commonwealth Games gold medals and 1 silver medal. At the 1998 Commonwealth Games in Kuala Lumpur, he won 4 gold medals. At the 2002 Commonwealth Games in Manchester, he won 6 gold medals and 1 silver medal.\n\nChad le Clos, South Africa’s most decorated swimmer, has won 17 medals from just three Commonwealth Games (2010, 2014 & 2018), seven of which are gold. At the 2018 Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast, he won three golds, a silver and a bronze.\n\n"}
{"id": "4217035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4217035", "title": "Counter turn", "text": "Counter turn\n\nA counter turn is a kind of one-foot turn in figure skating. Unlike three turns and brackets, where the entry and exit edges follow the same curve, in a counter the entry and exit are on opposite curves. When executing a counter, the skater turns outward to the curve of the entry edge, and exits on a curve in the same sense as the turn. Another way to look at it is that a counter is similar to the entry of a bracket turn combined with the exit of a three turn. (The opposite combination is called a rocker turn.) \n\nWhile counters are sometimes used to perform a simple change of direction, they more commonly appear in step sequences and in compulsory dances in ice dancing. For example, in the Westminster Waltz, the lady performs a rocker while the man performs a counter turn. Counters also appear on the USFSA's Novice-level moves in the field test.\n"}
{"id": "4138793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4138793", "title": "DBU Jutland", "text": "DBU Jutland\n\nDBU Jutland () (Jutland Football Association () until 1 February 2011) is the regional body of football in Jutland. It was established in Århus on 1 December 1895. It runs the Jutlandic amateur leagues. JBU is based in Viby J, and is one of the 6 regional associations under the Danish Football Association.\n\nDBU Jutland is separated into 4 regions:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14981335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14981335", "title": "Dells Raceway Park", "text": "Dells Raceway Park\n\nDells Raceway Park (DRP), formerly known as the Dells Motor Speedway, is a car racing raceway located in the town of Lyndon, in Juneau County, north of Wisconsin Dells, Wisconsin just off of U.S. Route 12/Wisconsin Highway 16. It is a 1/3 mile asphalt track that is used for stock car racing. The track has hosted races featuring the ARTGO Challenge Series, the NASCAR AutoZone Elite Division, Midwest Series, the ASA Midwest Tour, the Mid-American Stock Car Series, the Wisconsin Challenge Series, and the Must See Racing.com Xtreme Sprint Car Series. The track, which opened in 1958, sits on of land.\n\nThe track closed during the middle of the 2006 season over a bank fraud case, but the track\nwas purchased during the following off-season by a group of three investors that included NASCAR driver and Dells area native Frank Kreyer. It reopened in 2007.\n\nHoward Johnson, one of the original track owners, like to call the track \"Home of the Biggies\". The track has a reputation of being \"what a short track should be.\" Dick Trickle described driving the track, \"You drop low in the corners and then drift high on the straights. You try to make the track into the roundest oval possible.\"\n\nBryan Severson, the owner of 5 County Towing in Reedsburg, bought the track from then owner Luke Herring in 2002. During the 2006 season, the track was having financial difficulties with paying the drivers, and by mid-July Severson shut down the track after his arrest on federal charges of bank fraud. Further investigation found that in 2002 and 2003, Severson had received bank loans from Mark Hardyman, the president of the First National Bank of Blanchardville, and used his towing business and Dells Raceway Park as collateral. To cover up the loans from the bank's board of directors, Severson had written several worthless checks worth millions of dollars. The bank eventually did collapse in 2003. Severson was sentenced in February 2008 to nearly 12 years in federal prison after being convicted of 28 felony counts. Severson was ordered to repay the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation about $6.4 million that he was responsible for in the intended loss to the bank, less about $700,000 the FDIC received from another bank that bought some of Severson's loans which used the track as collateral.\n\nThe only fatality in the track's 50 plus year history occurred on May 26, 1973 when Wisconsin Rapids driver Lyle Nabbefeldt lost control of his car entering turn one during time trials, crashed into the outside wall and was killed instantly. The Lyle Nabbefeldt Memorial began in 1974 as a tribute to the driver, and it became the Dells' annual marquee event until its last running in the late 1990s. The first running of the event was a 100-lap feature, but the feature format was changed the next year to running two 55-lap features with an overall champion being declared. The change was made to reflect the number 55s that Nabbefeldt ran throughout his racing career. Another unique part of the Nabbefeldt Memorial was the winner's trophy, known as the Nabbefeldt Traveling Trophy. The overall champion of the Nabbefeldt Memorial was allowed to keep the trophy until the following year's running of the race. If any one driver was able to win the Nabbefeldt Memorial three years in a row, that driver would take permanent possession of the trophy and a new one would be introduced. Dick Trickle won the event two years in a row on two occasions, but Rick Wateski is the only driver to have won the event three years in a row (1991/1992/1993). Wayne Lensing, the current owner of Dells Raceway Park, announced that The Nabbefeldt Memorial was being revived for 2015, as part of a series of CWRA Challenge Series races.\n\nThe track also announced two new marquee Super Late Model events in 2015. The first event was the Icebreaker 100, an event held in April before other tracks opened. The second event was the Falloween 150, which was held in late October after all other late model events in the state of Wisconsin had concluded.\n\n• Super Late Model Travis Sauter 13.108 8-17-13<BR>\n• Tundra Super Corey Jankowski 13.273 9-01-11<BR>\n• Late Model Mike Litchfeld 13.968 9-25-15<BR>\n• Sportsmen Dave Trute 14.524 8-8-15<BR>\n• Pure Stock Mark Hohl 15.444 9-22-12<BR>\n• Super Stock Mike Lichtfeld 14.695 8-09-08<BR>\n• Bandit John Preston 16.662 8-29-15<BR>\n• Midwest Trucks Blake Brown 13.956 7-5-14<BR>\n• Outlaw Bandits George Sparkman 15.729 7-11-15<BR>\n• Hobby Stocks Travis Hancock 15.624 7-26-14<BR>\n• Big 8 Late Model Tim Sargent 14.362 7-4-14<BR>\n• Legend Cory Talaska 15.416 8-10-13<BR>\n• Hobby Stocks Travis Hancock 15.624 7-26-14<BR>\n• Great Northern Sportsmen Dave Trute 14.860 4-19-15<BR>\n• American Ethanol Super Trucks Camden Murphy 13.787 5-16-15<BR>\n• Vores Compact Series Adam Kryzkowski 15.825 6-6-15<BR>\n• Midwest Bandoleros Kaleb Winter 17.742 8-2-14<BR>\n• 600 Mod Lites John Griffin 14.998 7-11-15<BR>\n\n"}
{"id": "42338257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42338257", "title": "Dominican Summer League Athletics", "text": "Dominican Summer League Athletics\n\nThe Dominican Summer League Athletics or DSL Athletics are a Minor League Baseball team of the Dominican Summer League that began play in 1989 as a rookie-level affiliate of the Oakland Athletics. They are located in Boca Chica, Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, and play their home games at the Juan Marichal Complex. Two DSL Athletics squads existed between 1997 and 2008—DSL Athletics East and West (1997–2002) and DSL Athletics 1 and 2 (2003–08).\n\n"}
{"id": "36396440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36396440", "title": "EA Sports Active NFL Training Camp", "text": "EA Sports Active NFL Training Camp\n\nEA Sports Active NFL Training Camp is an American football-based fitness video game developed by EA Canada and published by EA Sports for the Nintendo Wii. The game was released on the same day as \"EA Sports Active 2\". The game has the National Football League license, which allows players to work out with any team and player of their choice, and was developed with the collaboration of various NFL strength and conditioning coaches. The game is compatible with the Wii Balance Board. Unlike the past two games, \"NFL Training Camp\" has \"Total Body Tracking\", which uses a heart monitor to measure the player's heart rate during play, along with a wireless motion tracker which goes on the leg, while the heart rate monitor goes on the arm, unlike the other games, which makes use of a leg pouch and the Nunchuck. The game's online compatibility is used by plugging a USB flash drive into the back of the console, and progress that the player makes in the game is automatically recorded and posted on the player's online profile. EA discontinued the game's online service on April 13, 2012.\n\nIn \"NFL Training Camp\", players perform various drills that are commonly performed in the NFL Scouting Combine, such as the 40-yard dash. At the end of every drill, a graph appears to inform the player of how many calories he/she has burned throughout the course of the drill, as well as the median of the player's heart rate. Players are rewarded with points and achievements for their performance. In the game, the player can participate in the \"NFL Combine 60-Day Challenge\", which lets players work for four days per week for 60 days in the drills performed in the Combine. Points and achievements that are earned by the player can be compared to other people who have played on the console, as well as people on the player's friend list. The game also has set up public groups for players to join, and players can contribute their stats to their team.\n\nOperation Sports gave the game a 7.5/10, praising the drills, workouts, and equipment, but criticized the feedback and motion problems.\n\n"}
{"id": "43977591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43977591", "title": "Enfida Sports", "text": "Enfida Sports\n\nEnfida Sports (النفيضة الرياضية) is a Tunisian football club located in Enfidha. It is currently evolving in the 2014–15 Tunisian Ligue Professionnelle 2.\n"}
{"id": "4593011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4593011", "title": "Estadio Miguel Grau (Piura)", "text": "Estadio Miguel Grau (Piura)\n\nEstadio Miguel Grau is a multi-use stadium in Piura, Peru, built in 1958. It is currently used by football team Atlético Grau. Throughout the years the stadium has undergone many renovations, most recently for the Copa America 2004. For this international competition, the stadium capacity was raised to 25,500. It was also used to host several games in the 2005 FIFA U-17 World Championship, in which artificial turf and a new electronic scoreboard were installed.\n\n"}
{"id": "40086840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40086840", "title": "Estonia at the 2013 World Championships in Athletics", "text": "Estonia at the 2013 World Championships in Athletics\n\nEstonia competed at the 2013 World Championships in Athletics in Moscow, Russia, from 10–18 August 2013 and won 1 bronze medal.\n\nThe following competitor from Estonia won a medal at the Championships\n"}
{"id": "16072813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16072813", "title": "FCAK-Liberia", "text": "FCAK-Liberia\n\nFCAK-Liberia is a football (soccer) club from Liberia. FCAK-Liberia was founded in 2008 after they participated in 2007 season as Mark Professionals. There also is a FCAK-South Africa who plays in the second division of the league. This team is privately owned by a South African Businessman.\n\n"}
{"id": "25853166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25853166", "title": "Fiji at the 1958 British Empire and Commonwealth Games", "text": "Fiji at the 1958 British Empire and Commonwealth Games\n\nFiji's participation in the 1958 British Empire and Commonwealth Games in Cardiff, Wales marked the colony's fourth appearance at the Games.\n\nFiji athletes competed only in athletics. The country sent three athletes to compete in four events. Mesulame Rakuro, in the men's discus throw, finished 5th out of 15 with a throw of 48.01m. Joseph \"Joe\" Tokana finished joint 20th (out of 27) in the men's high jump, with a jump of 1.85m, and 17th (out of 21) in the men's triple jump, with a jump of 14.07m. Viliame Bale Liga finished 5th out of 15 in the men's javelin, with a throw of 66.9m. The delegation contained no female athletes.\n\nFor the third time (and the second time running), Fiji won no medals.\n\n"}
{"id": "3425217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3425217", "title": "Fila (company)", "text": "Fila (company)\n\nFila, Inc. is an Italian sporting goods company founded in 1911 in Biella (Italy) and based in Seoul.\n\nFila was founded in 1911 in Italy. Since a purchase in 2007 by Fila Korea, the company is now owned and operated from South Korea. Headed by chairman and CEO Yoon-Soo Yoon, Fila has offices in 11 countries globally.\n\nFila was created in Biella, Piedmont, Italy, by Giansevero Fila in 1911. It originally started by making clothing for the people of the Italian Alps, now manufacturing sportswear for men, women, children and athletes.\n\nThe company's primary product was originally underwear, before moving into sportswear in the 1970s, initially with the endorsement of tennis player Björn Borg. The brand became more popular after moving into sportswear.\n\nThe original Italian ownership shop Holding di Partecipazioni sold the company to US hedge fund Cerberus Capital Management in 2003, after the company over-committed itself to expensive athletic endorsements, at a time when margins were under pressure. Cerberus owned Fila through holding company Sports Brands International, which owned and operated all Fila businesses around the world with the exception of Fila Korea, which was a separate company operating the brand under licence.\n\nIn January 2007, the global Fila brand and all its international subsidiaries were acquired by Fila Korea from SBI, which made it the largest South Korean sportswear company. Fila Korea currently holds all of the rights to the worldwide use of footwear and clothing brands of the parent firm.\n\nIn 2009, ANTA Sports acquired the rights to use the brand in China (the company \"Full Prospect\"), from Belle International, Fila Korea still owned 15% shares of the joint venture company \"Full Prospect\".\n\nIn May 2011, Fila Korea Ltd. acquired global golf equipment maker Acushnet Company, becoming the new owner of leading golf brands such as Titleist for $1.23 billion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8598070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8598070", "title": "Fire and Ice (1986 film)", "text": "Fire and Ice (1986 film)\n\nFire and Ice () is a German feature length sports film directed by Willy Bogner in 1986.\n\nJohn (John Eaves) and Suzy (Suzy Chaffee) meet while skiing in Aspen, Colorado. They run into each other again in New York and John follows her around the country.\n\n\nWhile the movie has a plot, it is essentially irrelevant. The movie contains mainly freestyle skiing scenes with Willy Bogner as director and cameraman. John Denver does the voiceover narration for the English-language version, Emil Steinberger for the German version. Besides skiing scenes, the movie contains snowboarding, hanggliding and windsurfing scenes with sports talents Gianfranco L'Amore, Jan Bucher and Mike Waltze. Marietta Waters performed the title track \"Fire and Ice\". With \"Fire and Ice\", Bogner won the Bavarian Film Awards (Special Prize) in 1986, and a Bambi in 1985. Bogner directed a kind of sequel in 1990, named \"Fire, Ice and Dynamite\".\n"}
{"id": "32182323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32182323", "title": "Four Days in October", "text": "Four Days in October\n\nFour Days in October is a baseball documentary produced by ESPN and MLB Productions. It is episode 24 in the first season of the ESPN \"30 for 30\" series.\n\nIt chronicles the last four games of the 2004 American League Championship Series (ALCS) between the Boston Red Sox and the New York Yankees. The series became famous when the Red Sox—who lost the first three games of the series to the Yankees—became the first team in Major League Baseball history to win a best of seven playoff series after falling behind 0–3.\n\nThe documentary begins with few highlights of the Yankees–Red Sox rivalry over the years and then some highlights from Game 3, which was won by the Yankees 19–8 at Fenway Park in Boston. The show's narrative begins with Game 4. The Yankees stood three outs away from sweeping the Red Sox at Fenway Park and advancing to their 40th World Series appearance. The series turned when the Red Sox rallied to tie the game in the 9th inning. They would win it on a home run by David Ortiz to keep the series alive. The ninth inning rally proved to be the turning point of the series, as the Red Sox would win the next four games, clinching the series at Yankee Stadium.\n\nA week later, the Red Sox won all four games against the National League (NL) champion St. Louis Cardinals to win their first World Series championship in 86 years, ending the 2004 postseason on an eight-game winning streak.\n\nWhile most of the commentary from the players in the documentary was done in the usual interview style that is customary of documentaries, Lenny Clarke and Bill Simmons were put in a pub setting, providing a conversation as fans, discussing their own experiences and feelings during the series.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31620471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31620471", "title": "Francine Landre", "text": "Francine Landre\n\nFrancine Landre (born 26 July 1970 in Les Abymes, Guadeloupe) is a French athlete who specialises in the 400 meters. Landre competed in the women's 4 x 400 meter relay at the 1996 Summer Olympics.\n\nsports reference\n"}
{"id": "17235811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17235811", "title": "Garra Blanca", "text": "Garra Blanca\n\nGarra Blanca (literally white claw, but in this sense \"garra\" means force, so the translation is \"white force\") is the title given to a Barra brava that was created in Chile by the supporters of Santiago based football club Colo-Colo. It is one of the three largest and most important barras bravas in the country, the other beings Universidad de Chile's \"Los de Abajo\" (\"those from below\") and S.C.Universidad Catolica \"Los Cruzados\" (\"The Cruzaders\").\n\nIn early 1986 a youth movement gave rise among the various supporters of Colo-Colo. Amid political repression during the military regime of Augusto Pinochet, marginalized members of Chilean society decided to unite and form a voice of identity. Over the years the group has been associated with widescale violence. Fighting with security personnel, the Chilean national police, and other team barra bravas is a common occurrence. Garra Blanca leaders are reported to have an unofficial relationship with Blanco y Negro, the corporate entity that is in charge of Colo-Colo. The board of directors deny such an alliance and have only stated that the barra brava is recognized for stadium safety reasons.\n"}
{"id": "2515090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2515090", "title": "George Hall (baseball)", "text": "George Hall (baseball)\n\nGeorge William Hall (March 29, 1849 – June 11, 1923) was a professional baseball player who played in the National Association and later the National League. Born in Stepney, England, Hall later immigrated to the U.S. He made his professional debut on May 5, 1871.\n\nHall began his professional career with the Washington Olympics of the National Association in , hitting .294 in 32 games. He moved onto the Baltimore Canaries for the and seasons, hitting .336 and .345 respectively. Playing mostly center field up to this point, he moved around from center to right field the following year when he played for the Champions, the Boston Red Stockings. After just one season with the Red Stockings, he moved on to play for the Philadelphia Athletics where he had another good season at the plate, hitting .299, and four home runs, which was good for second place behind Jim O'Rourke's six.\n\nAfter the 1875 season, the National Association folded, which left room for a new league to begin. In , the National League came into existence, the first official \"Major League\". Hall's team, the Athletics, followed that movement with very little success, finishing seventh out of eight teams. One of the bright spots that year for the Athletics was the hitting prowess of their star hitter, Hall. He led the team in almost all major hitting categories including a .366 batting average, 51 runs scored, and a league leading five home runs. On June 17, 1876, he became the first Major League baseball player to hit two home runs in one game. Those five home runs stood as the single season home run record until Charley Jones hit nine in .\n\nFor the baseball season, Philadelphia had been expelled from the league for refusing to go on a western road trip, late in the 1876 season, for financial reasons, so Hall moved on to play for the Louisville Grays. Again, he had an excellent season, hitting .323, scoring 51 runs, and hitting 8 triples. Surprisingly, after appearing in the league leaders for home runs the last two seasons, he did not hit one in 1877.\n\nSome baseball researchers attribute Hall as being the first major league player to hit for the cycle. In a game against the Cincinnati Red Stockings on June 14, 1876, Hall had five hits. Contemporary newspaper accounts agree that four of the hits were a home run, a single, and two triples; there is disagreement as to if the remaining hit was a double (which would complete the cycle) or another triple. The first undisputed major league cycle is attributed to Curry Foley of the Buffalo Bisons of the National League in 1882.\n\nOn October 26, 1877, Louisville club vice president Charles Chase confronted Hall and fellow Gray Jim Devlin with charges that they threw some road games in August and September. Both admitted only to throwing non-league games, one of which was an exhibition game in Lowell, Massachusetts, on August 30, and another in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, on September 3. The admissions also implicated teammates Al Nichols and Bill Craver. Hall claimed that he and Devlin helped in losses to the Cincinnati Reds on September 6 and to the minor league Indianapolis Blues on September 24‚ but he argued that since the Reds were about to be suspended and the games nullified‚ it amounted to an exhibition game. As a result of the scandal, all four players were banned for life from Major League Baseball.\n\nHall died in Ridgewood, New York, at the age of 74. He was buried at Evergreen Cemetery in Brooklyn, New York.\n\n\n, or Retrosheet\n"}
{"id": "9797862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9797862", "title": "Grand Slam of Eventing", "text": "Grand Slam of Eventing\n\nThe Grand Slam of Eventing, sponsored by Rolex, consists of three of the top CCI**** equestrian eventing competitions in the world. Pippa Funnell in 2003 and Michael Jung in 2016, are the only riders to have achieved the Grand Slam since its inception in 1999. To win the Grand Slam, a rider must consecutively win all three events, although they are permitted to ride different horses in each competition. This is especially important, since the Badminton Horse Trials is only one week after Kentucky, and the horse would not have sufficient time to recover between the two competitions, especially since they would have to be flown overseas in that time.\n\nThe three events that make up the Grand Slam are:\n\nWinners receive an extra $, in addition to their winnings from each event.\n\nThe Grand Slam of Eventing began in 1999, and has since only been won by two riders.\n\nPippa Funnell (GBR):\n\nMichael Jung (GER):\n\nAndrew Hoy (AUS):\n\nOliver Townend (GBR):\n\nWilliam Fox-Pitt (GBR):\n\nAndrew Nicholson (NZL):\n\nPre 1999:\n\nHaving initiated the concept themselves in 1998, the company have since established themselves as a leading sponsor within Three Day Eventing. Furthermore, they are title sponsors of the Rolex Kentucky Horse Trials and major supporting sponsors for Badminton and Burghley.\n"}
{"id": "2756603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2756603", "title": "Heelys", "text": "Heelys\n\nHeelys, formerly known as Heeling Sports Limited, is a brand of roller shoe (marketed by Heelys, Inc.) that have one or more removable wheels embedded in each sole, similar to inline skates, allowing the wearer to walk, run, or, by shifting their weight to their heels, roll. Braking can be achieved by lowering the back of the foot so that sole contacts the ground. Roger Adams patented Heelys in 1999. The headquarters are located in Carrollton, Texas.\n\nThe journal of the American Academy of Pediatrics published a study of injuries resulting from the use of Heelys (and Street Gliders, a similar product that is strapped onto regular shoes). The study counted only significant injuries that required assessment by an orthopedic surgeon, ignoring minor injuries that were treated solely in the emergency department. The 10-week study (conducted during summer school holiday), found:\n\nIn February 2007, the Yeovil Town Council was the first English council to ban their use.\n\nThe manufacturer says, \"We highly recommend [the use of protective gear] when the wheels are in the shoes.\" Most users do not wear protective gear because the shoes are worn for everyday use (unlike more specialized sporting equipment such as inline skates).\n\nAdvanced Heelys users can perform tricks such as spins, backwards skating and skating on one foot.\n\nThere are four categories of tricks used in heeling: ground tricks, grinding tricks, stalling tricks and vert tricks.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51506226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51506226", "title": "Houleye Ba", "text": "Houleye Ba\n\nHouyele Ba (born July 17, 1992) is a Mauritanian middle-distance runner. She competed at the 2016 Summer Olympics in the women's 800 metres race; her time of 2:43.52 in the heats did not qualify her for the semifinals.\n"}
{"id": "43220327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43220327", "title": "Houston Driving Park (1902)", "text": "Houston Driving Park (1902)\n\nHouston Driving Park also known as Harrisburg Park was a horse racing track located in Houston's Magnolia Park neighborhood along Harrisburg Boulevard. It was opened in 1902.\n\nIn March 1902, members of the Houston Driving Park Association and the Houston Country Club surveyed an area in Magnolia Park for the grounds of a new race track. With a capacity of 600, grandstands were erected and the park had opened by November 1902.\n\nIn June 1904, the Houston Driving Park Association began work to temporarily transform the race park into a ballpark for temporary use by the Houston Lambs (later known as the Houston Buffaloes) of the South Texas League. After being evicted from Herald Park, the ball club eventually played several games at the Houston Driving Park beginning with a game against the Galveston Sandcrabs on July 29, 1904. The club received a new ballpark when West End Park opened the following season.\n"}
{"id": "52716498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52716498", "title": "Jhapa Gold Cup", "text": "Jhapa Gold Cup\n\nJhapa Gold Cup (lang.Nepali) झापा गोल्डकप is a football tournament held in Jhapa. It is held at the Jhapa Rangsala stadium in Jhapa, Nepal. Many national and international clubs play in the Jhapa Gold Cup.\n\nJhapa Gold Cup started on 2016 year. This first tournament won the Nepal Army club.\n\n"}
{"id": "57658984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57658984", "title": "Just Dance 2019", "text": "Just Dance 2019\n\nJust Dance 2019 is a dance rhythm game developed by Ubisoft. It was unveiled on June 11, 2018, during its E3 press conference, and was released on October 23, 2018 on Nintendo Switch, Wii, Wii U, PlayStation 4, Xbox One and Xbox 360 in North America. It was also released on October 26, 2018 in Europe and Australia.\n\nA demo for the game was released on November 12, 2018 on Xbox One, PlayStation 4 and Nintendo Switch.\n\nAs with the previous installments of the franchise, players must mimic the on-screen dancer's choreography to a chosen song using either motion controllers or the game's associated smartphone app (which, however, is incompatible with versions of the game on Nintendo consoles, in favour of exclusively supporting Joy-Con or Wii Remote). The game's user interface received a significant redesign, with a focus on recommendations and curated playlists, and removing other modes to focus on core gameplay.\n\nThe following songs appear on \"Just Dance 2019\".\n\nDrake's \"Nice for What\" was included in initial pressings of the game, but was removed shortly after release due to licensing issues. The song was removed from all releases of the game via patches, except for the Wii and Xbox 360 versions.\n\n\"Just Dance\" Unlimited is a subscription-based service for accessing a streaming library of songs, including new exclusives and songs from previous \"Just Dance\" games. As with all previous releases to include Unlimited, the feature is only supported on current-generation consoles. As of the release of \"2019\", all future songs added to the service will be exclusive to it. \n\nSongs exclusive to \"Just Dance Unlimited\" include:\n\n\"Nintendo Life\" gave \"Just Dance 2019\" a 7 out of 10, noting that its stripped-down experience was \"a strange shift to behold, suggesting that the game is trying to adapt to a new Spotify-using, social media-loving, older teen audience, or maybe growing up alongside those who have supported it from the beginning\", and also acknowledged Ubisoft's continued emphasis on pushing its subscription-based offerings for the franchise, as well as performance issues and the removal of \"Just Dance\" Controller app support on the Nintendo Switch version.\n"}
{"id": "731048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731048", "title": "KalPa", "text": "KalPa\n\nThe Kalevan Pallo (KalPa) is a professional ice hockey team which competes in the Finnish Liiga. They play in Kuopio, Finland at the Data Group Areena.\n\nEstablished in 1929 as \"Sortavalan Palloseura\" in Sortavala, the club relocated to Kuopio in 1945 after its original hometown had been annexed by the Soviet Union. During its Sortavala years, the club was not active in ice hockey, but competed in association football, bandy, and pesäpallo instead. Ice hockey was introduced in 1947, and in 1956 KalPa officially replaced the more traditional Kuopio club KuPS in that sport thus specializing in hockey – minor league football was still continued until 1974 as a farm team of sorts for KuPS.\n\nThe full name of the company that runs the representative team today is \"KalPa Hockey Oy\". The majority of the company is owned by NHL players Sami Kapanen and Kimmo Timonen. Kapanen is the majority owner, controlling 50.5% of the franchise. Timonen owns 8%, while Timonen's former teammate Scott Hartnell owns 5%. Hartnell purchased a minority share of the team after getting financial advice from Kimmo Timonen during a road trip to Boston.\n\nDuring the 2004–05 NHL lockout, Timonen, Kapanen, and fellow NHL player Adam Hall were playing for KalPa. After winning the Mestis championship, KalPa returned to SM-liiga for the 2005–06 season, after being relegated six years earlier in 1999.\n\nKalPa has won three medals: silvers in the 1990–91 and 2016–17 seasons and a bronze in the 2008–09 season.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4560835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4560835", "title": "Kentucky International Convention Center", "text": "Kentucky International Convention Center\n\nThe Kentucky International Convention Center (KICC), formerly called the Commonwealth Convention Center, is a large multi-use facility in Louisville, Kentucky, United States. It, along with the Kentucky Exposition Center, hosts conventions for the Louisville area. It was built on the site of the Tyler Block and opened in 1977. The facility reopened in August 2018 after a two-year closure for a major expansion and renovation.\n\nWhile the convention center does not have a permanent arena, it still has hosted various sporting events, including the 2002 Ohio Valley Conference Men's Basketball Tournament and the NCAA Division II Men's Basketball Tournament from 1995 to 2000. It also hosted select University of Louisville women's basketball games from the 1989–90 season through 1992–93, and again in the 1994–95, 2000–01, and 2008–09 seasons. One of the exhibit halls was temporarily turned into an arena, with seats for about 7,000.\n\nThis facility is not to be confused with the Louisville Gardens which was called the Convention Center or the Louisville Convention Center in the 1960s and 1970s until the Kentucky International Convention Center was being built in 1975 when the Louisville Gardens received its current name.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4316774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4316774", "title": "Koho (company)", "text": "Koho (company)\n\nKoho is a brand of ice hockey equipment that originated from Finland. Currently, Koho equipment is manufactured by The Hockey Company (parent company of CCM, now owned by Adidas). Koho is especially known for its goaltending equipment. The main endorsees, instrumental to marketing the brand throughout the 1990s and early 2000s, included Arturs Irbe, Patrick Roy, Félix Potvin, Jocelyn Thibault, Tommy Salo, Mathieu Garon, Jean-Sébastien Giguère and Roberto Luongo. Although Koho had the support of high-profile endorsees such as Jaromír Jágr, the player equipment lines were comparatively unsuccessful. The brand name is currently owned by MonkeySports, which operates GoalieMonkey.com and Hockeymonkey.com. They are the exclusive retailer of the brand. \n\nBeginning in the early 1990s, Koho offered a line of goaltending equipment called Evolution. It was designed with former NHL goalie Bob Suave who at the time, worked for Koho. Arturs Irbe of the San Jose Sharks was well known for wearing this line of gear for many years. Later versions of Koho goal equipment were designed by goalie equipment guru Michel Lefebvre, who started with the 530 series, which were based on the pad which was sold previously under the Lefebvre brand. Lefebrve, contracted now to develop pads to be sold exclusively through the Koho brand, designed the 560, 570, 580 and 590 series. Beginning with the 560 series, Koho pads were designed exclusively by Lefebvre, and the equipment line was designed for the butterfly style of play. The 590 was the last pad that Patrick Roy wore during the 2002–03 season. \n\nDuring the 2004 World Cup of Hockey, the original plan was to have Roberto Luongo premiere the Koho 600 pad. However, as a result of the unexpected purchase of The Hockey Company by Reebok, Luongo appeared in the World Cup wearing 590s. When The Hockey Company was purchased by Reebok, the Koho name was momentarily dropped and replaced by Reebok, with the intent of eventually phasing out the Koho name from its main product line. The Hockey Company did so previously with the Heaton brand, and would eventually do the same with the CCM goalie brand. Koho was then delegated to a price-point street hockey goalie equipment set, featuring the graphic of the 570. However, on Reebok's first goalie equipment lines, including the RBK Premier and RBK Premier 2, a small tag with the Koho by Lefebvre logo remained, as the names Koho and Lefebvre still had (and continue to have) residual market value. \n\nInitially, Rbk was used for the pro and intermediate pro lines of equipment, while Reebok was reserved for all other lines (senior, junior and youth). When Reebok discontinued the use of Rbk in 2008, the Rbk branding was dropped from the hockey equipment as well. \n\nWhen the NHL resumed play in the 2005–06 season following the lockout, only one goaltender, Maxime Ouellet of the Vancouver Canucks, was using Koho equipment. Because the Koho name had been dropped by The Hockey Company, which consequently had not paid the NHL the appropriate licensing fees, the Koho name was not permitted to appear in a game or in any league or team media or promotional materials. Nonetheless, the Koho name remained on Ouellet's pads, which was an oversight by the league.\n\nAt the beginning of the 2007–08 season, Jonas Hiller of the Anaheim Ducks appeared in pre-season games in 580 leg pads, which were white and blue, matching the colors of his previous team, HC Davos. The Koho name had actually already been removed from Hiller's pads prior to the 2006 IIHF World Championships. By the start of the regular season, Hiller was wearing 580s in colors matching the Ducks' uniform colors. However, about halfway through the season, the logos were removed from his pads. \n\nIn 2008, GoalieMonkey.com managed to bring back the Koho name to the retail market at least, producing a set with the name Koho 700. The set included pads, blocker, glove, chest protector and a composite goal stick. None of these products were actually designed by Lefebvre, however. They were a pad designed for the hybrid goaltender, but nevertheless feel very similar to the Lefebvre Koho lines, minus the traditional shin rolls, which were never a feature of Lefebvre's design. \n\nMeanwhile, Jonas Hiller began the 2008–09 season with 580s with no Koho logos. About halfway through the season, however, Hiller switched to a nearly identical pair of leg pads, this time featuring the Koho logos. This indicated that Monkey Sports, Inc. had successfully negotiated the licensing rights with the NHL, marking Koho's official return to the NHL. In 2009, rumors circulated that a new Koho pad, dubbed the \"900\" series, would be produced, in conjunction with Michel Lefebvre. At the start of the 2009–10 season, Hiller began play in his trademark 580s, along with a blocker and catching glove with custom Koho graphics, thus giving credence to earlier rumors of a new Koho pad. It was later revealed there was a new pad to match his blocker and catching glove but since Hiller had no time to break them in after receiving them after training camp, he stuck with his signature 580s. Hiller debuted the Koho 588 pad in the beginning of the 2010–11 season.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52317475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52317475", "title": "Lambert Maltock", "text": "Lambert Maltock\n\nLambert Maltock is the president of the Vanuatu Football Federation since 2008. He is currently serving his third term since December 2015. He is acting president of OFC and member of FIFA Council.\n"}
{"id": "6527618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6527618", "title": "Land windsurfing", "text": "Land windsurfing\n\nLand windsurfing, also known as “Terrasailing”, “street sailing”, “land sailing” and “dirt windsurfing”, is a sport similar to traditional windsurfing that is performed on land rather than water. A four wheeled deck, similar to a mountain board or skateboard deck, is commonly used in conjunction with a mast and sail in order to project the board across land.\n\nSeveral companies offer specially designed land boards which allow for easy coupling between the board and mast base of the sail. These boards are drilled with a special hole at the front of the deck that permits the application of the mast base to the board. Land boards equipped with all-terrain tires can be used on multiple ground types such as sand, grass, asphalt, and dirt. Most land boards require a minimum of a 5 mph wind speed in order to be propelled. Wind speed requirements may vary depending on what ground type is being traversed. \n\nLand windsurfing is an all-season sport and is often used by traditional windsurfers for training during winter months when waters become frigid. Advanced land windsurfing riders are able to perform technical freestyle tricks similarly seen in other extreme sports such as windsurfing, skateboarding and snowboarding.\nLand windsurfing marathons have been undertaken across the Sahara in 1979 by Arnaud de Rosnay and Nullarbor Plain in 1985 by Gavin Le Sueur\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4672424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4672424", "title": "Landskrona IP", "text": "Landskrona IP\n\nLandskrona IP (short for \"Landskrona Idrottsplats\", \"Landskrona Sports Ground\"), locally known as \"I.P.\" the second home of Landskrona BoIS football club. The venue is owned by Landskrona Town but its only tenant is \"BoIS\", as the club is labeled locally. The arena was inaugurated in the summer of 1924, replacing the old Landskrona sports ground Banan.\n\nThe stadium is almost only used for football, and after the strange demolition of the western stand in 2011, it holds approximately 10,000 attenders (of which 3500 are covered seats) The terraced stands on the north and east side has never had any roofs. Aside from Landskrona BoIS' home games, has one Swedish friendly cap been played at the arena, as well as some matches in the UEFA 1974 Youth tournament. Perhaps better known, is the fact that the arena hosted all of the Faroe Islands home qualifications games for the UEFA Euro 1992.\n\nThe stadium is located about 3–4 km from the town's center.\n\nThe venue was formally inaugurated by Crown Price Gustav Adolf who became King of Sweden 26 years later\n, in the summer of 1924. Landskrona IP replaced the old sports ground Banan, where the pitch was in the middle of a simple cycling track.\nUnlike the old sports ground from 1893, was \"IP\" located just east of the magnificent beech forest \"Karlslund\", some 3–4 km north of the town's centre. Almost at the countryside of 1924.\n\nAllsvenskan, the Swedish top football league, began in 1924–25, with Landskrona BoIS as one of its twelve original clubs. The club had initially failed to qualify for the new national league. But much thanks to this new stadium which by 1924 standards was considered as modern and suitable for football, was BoIS \"given\" a place in the new league, which first was meant for \"Fässberg\", a club from a Gothenburg suburb which not even had a dressing room or bath/showers for the away team. The venue was also suitable for primitive bicycle racing and perhaps also for Track and field. But the clay tracks which surrounded the pitch was shorter than the 400 meter Track and field standard. The southern grandstand had seats only, but the stand was originally only partly covered. At the northern side and behind the eastern curve terraces was constructed of earthwork stones and some concrete. Parts of the eastern curve simple was earthwork with grass on. In the western curve was no stands of any kind. \nDuring the spring of 1939 was the entire seating grandstand covered, but this meant nothing for the total attendance capacity, which remained to be around 10.000.\n\nSometime between the BoIS 1952-53 ditching down to the third tier of Swedish football, and the 1958 qualification match for Allsvenskan against Örgryte IS, was the northern terraced stand enlarged by a slightly steeper stainless steel & wood section, on top of the concrete and earthworks, which next to doubled the crowd capacity of that stand. Landskrona BoIS was a top club most years from the late 1950s to 1970, but failed to reach Allsvenskan in the qualification games in 1958, 1959, 1962 and in 1968. But in 1970 did the club finally return to the finest Swedish football assembly through a successful qualification.\n\nDuring the period from the mid 1950s and 15–20 years ahead, did much happen in the world of football. During this time, did Landskrona IP not only see the current attendance record, but attendances close to, or above 10.000 became regular. Between 1958 and 1977 did Landskrona IP welcome crowds of around 10.000 or more, at some 20-25 occasions, and in \"at least\" nine of those occasions were the attendance also above 15.000. \nIt was also during the late 1950s in which the all-time attendance record was set. During a qualification game for Allsvenskan in 1959, as 18 535 spectators turned up for the event. Between the mid-1950s and the late 1970s, crowds of 15,000 were not uncommon, and occurred even when Landskrona BoIS played in Sweden's second-tier league.\n\nIn the mid 1960s the four floodlight pillars were first erected. But some of them fell during a hurricane just a year or two later. When they were re-erected, they became secured by a system of steel cables.\n\nAfter the last Allsvenskan home game in 1972 was the southern grandstand seater demolished, and at the opening home game of the 1973 season was a new modern concrete Grandstand with 4000 seats opened instead. The new stand had approximately 2200 covered seats and 1800 seats without any cover. For extraordinary interesting matches, temporary benches were usually placed at the clay tracks, this allowed a total of close to 6000 sitting attenders.\n\nThe 1973 building of the new grandstand is the most expensive and significant improvement of Landskrona IP ever.\n\nUntil 1989, the arena had clay tracks for athletics (and originally also for cycle races, though it has never been anything like a velodrome). The stadium was rather useless for athletics, as the tracks were both narrow and notably shorter than the optimal 400 meters, and the throwing events were held behind the stadium, if any athletic competition ever was held at IP. The running tracks were mainly used by nearby schools. (While the pitch naturally was off-limits for all but football players)\n\nIn 1990 the owner, Landskrona Town, removed the tracks after requests by Landskrona BoIS. And a few hundred meters away, a good facilities for athletics was constructed. The 1973 seater stand now turned out to be a bit longer than the pitch and quite a few seats was removed for this reason and due to bad sight.\n\nBehind both short sides of the stadium lower wooden terraces were mounted behind the short sides. And in the following year, 1990, the northern long side terrace stand, whose lower part was built of a combination of earthwork, stone and concrete and its upper part of wood, was replaced by a concrete terrace stand (which is possible to transform into an all-seater stand, although this never has been done at Landskrona IP, but the same construction was used at Olympia, in neighbouring city Helsingborg 1985-2000, and i a minor extent also between 2001 and 2015, and there has the terraces at several occasions been transformed into all-seater stands).\n\nThe reconstruction was an improvement, seen from most angles. But it really was an insufficient action, partly due to the very low terraces behind the goals but mainly due to the complete lack of roofs and other weather shields at the three terraced sides. And from now on was the maximum capacity reduced to around 11.000.\n\nIn the following year, 1991, was the northern terraces replaced with a new concrete terrace stand of equal height as the old one, but it had fewer steps. The demolition of the old northern stand also meant the last parts of the original stands from 1924, now was forever gone. A wooden building behind that stand survived for many years however, but as of May 2017 are the only artifacts remaining from 1924 two flagpoles and the arch which constituted the entrance. It no longer does, but is still there, and most of the spectators who pay ground attendance fee do still walk through the arch.\n\nBefore the 1998 season had Landskrona municipality in mind to build a roof on top of the northern long side terraces, however the new board with \"Kenneth Håkansson\" as chairman, argued that the money was needed elsewhere. The knowledge of this decision among the supporters was next to none at the time. \nGenerally has the football attenders in Sweden never been listened to, but with knowledge of the local climate is it very hard to comprehend this decision. As an example was a possible beating of the 1959 attendance record, mentioned i the local newspapers before the Landskrona BoIS vs Malmö FF meetings in 1975, 1976 and 1977. In 1975 came 17.696 in excellent weather (less than 900 away from a new record), but due to some rain did only 13.758 turn up for the 1976 meeting and in 1977 fell rain all afternoon as well as during most of the match. And the attendance only reached 10.849. Everyone knows the significance of a good environment for the crowds (such as roofs and wind shields), but even when \"the owner\" of the venue, (Landskrona Town, as mentioned earlier), wanted to improve the spectator facilities, did the 1998-2014 leadership disagree. And since 1998 has many thousands of attenders \"rained away\" at Landskrona IP.\n\nJust before Landskrona BoIS' 2002 return to Allsvenskan, was two concrete terraces (without roofs, \"naturally\") taken in use at the eastern side, together with two temporary rented larger steel & wood constructions behind the opposite goal. But these were initially intended for the season premiere only, and was removed afterwards. Also, a few more seats vanished, as the original benches were substituted with individual seats. \nThe 2002 season opening was the first Allsvenskan match at Landskrona IP since 1994. The guesting team was no other than HIF or more formal, Helsingborgs IF, the together with MFF or Malmö FF the angriest rivals possible for BoIS, at 6.April.2002 in front of 11.909, which ended with the astonish result of 6-2 for BoIS ! After the 2002 season premiere was the temporary stands behind the western goal removed. After the police simply had to close the gates to the absolutely packed stadium against AIK that same year (at 8.July.2002 after 10.181 spectators had entered the venue), did the mobile stands return to Landskrona IP. After that match did the board apologise to the sponsors, whose advertising had been drawn down by the police, in order for more of the paying attenders, to be able to see something. But the board never apologised to the paying attenders, who couldn't see much. This was a hinch of how the still rather new chairman of the board made his priorities.\nIn the spring of 2003 did Landskrona BoIS themselves pay for a permanent western concrete terrace. (All other stands are owned by Landskrona Town).\n\nHowever, before the 2011 season the club replaced the western stand with a building. And as of May 2017, the venue still lacks cover of the northern and eastern terraces, and there is no attendance possible behind the western side.\n\nBy 2005, Landskrona BoIS presented a reconstruction of all uncovered terraces and replacing the northern stand with an all-seater stand. Total capacity would be 12.000. But as Landskrona BoIS got relegated from Allsvenskan down to Superettan, the idea vanished. The former chairman (1998-2014), \"Kenneth Håkansson\" had plans for a very fashionable and luxury, but indeed tiny, new stadium which included a tall hotel in Landskrona's harbour area. But as that initially secret idea reached the members and supporters of the club, did it not receive much positive criticism. Soon afterwards did the main private financier jump off the project. The intended venue was in most minds far too small (only meant for 6000) and far too expensive as well as being located at a very windy location. Also, Kenneth Håkansson, who initially did very well for the club, began to estimate the need for \"the future attendance capacity\", solely based on the very latest statistics, instead upon historical facts. Or at least, it did certainly appear to be so.\n\nJust before the 2011 season, the western concrete terrace (built in as late as in 2003, and which at least gave shadow for its spectators during games played in hot summer days) was removed and a temporary building has prevented spectators from watching the game from that view ever since. During the autumn of 2013, the board and previous chairman of the club announce, \"Due to the need of ground heating, the natural grass also needs to be replaced with artificial turf\", which indeed seemed strange as stadiums with artificial turf are not called for in the Scanian climate. An alleged investigation, made by Landskrona BoIS former leading, meant that this was a necessity for the 2014 season, which caused a storm of protests from supporters of the club as well as others. And in November 2013 the municipality council instead decided to invest in ground heating, but rejected the idea of artificial turf. When the \"investigation\" was presented, it soon was revealed that the heating costs for natural grass were included, but excluded for the \"artificial turf alternative\". Further, some of the outgoing figures was based \"on a few phone-calls\".\n\n\"And how the annual the costs of a grass pitch for football could be almost as expensive as keeping the 36 greens of Landskrona Golf Club open the entire year, including some 3-5 annual snowfalls, nobody from the former club leading could explain\".\n\nEventually the leading local politicians did agree with the large number of supporters (as well as others), and did not gave their permission for an artificial turf, as the former Club board had requested. On 14 April 2014, the second ever natural grass pitch at the football stadium at Landskrona IP was inaugurated, with ground heating beneath.\n\nSweden has once played a home cap at Landskrona IP, against Estonia on 7 July 1929; the result was 4-1, and several Landskrona BoIS players were on the pitch. This was however during the time when the former \"committee of national-team selected players\"formula_1 mostly was regional (for this match the committee was composed mainly of journalists from the Malmö newspaper Sydsvenska Dagbladet) \n\nformula_2The precise \"name\" of these committees are not formally known even in Swedish.\"Uttagningskommitén\" is used in the source.\n\nThis tournament for boys up to the age of 17 was hosted by southern Sweden (all games played in Scania or Blekinge). Two games were played at Landskrona IP. The Group D game, between Sweden and Portugal (which ended in a 1:0 Swedish victory) and one of the semi-finals was played at Landskrona IP. In the latter the former Yugoslavia defeated Greece 1:0. All 4000 seats were sold and equally split in two halves. But the approximately 12,000 ground attendance terraces were open for local residents only, but very few of them arrived at \"IP\" this rainy day, 29.May.1974. The Yugoslavian goal came late in the match, and the posse of police dogs was put in action.\n\nDuring the qualification for the Euro 1992, Faroe Islands participated for the first time in international football. A problem for them was that no UEFA-approved grass pitch arena existed at this North Atlantic country.\nFor unknown reasons Faroe Islands then chose Landskrona IP as their temporary home ground. Their first opponents were Austria, a team who were expected to win against this small nation, who were new to international football, but Faroe Islands won their first ever competition game 1:0 \"home\" at Landskrona IP, on 12 September 1990. This led to a fast decision, to build a usable home ground in Thorshavn within weeks. However UEFA decided that it would not be fair for the other national teams to have to play at the new stadium at Faroe Islands, hence another three international competition games were played at Landskrona IP, against Denmark, Yugoslavia and Northern Ireland.\n\nAllsvenskan began in August 1924, some of the early attendance records at Landskrona IP were\n\n\nIt was later this year as the Wall Street Crash occurred, which possibly could have affected the rising interest for football. In any case did the 1929 attendance record last for almost thirty years. A period of poor results for Landskrona BoIS began during the 1940s and continued during the early 1950s. And Landskrona BoIS even was relegated to the third tier of the Swedish football system during the 1952-53 season This \"third tier season\" became however something of a taking charge for the future season. And as Landskrona BoIS had returned to the second tier, after a single season in the third one, and became a top club in the second tier during the 1956-57 season, did the attendances rise notably. And even further so in the following 1957-58 season, as BoIS won their league and now would play Örgryte IS in a home-away qualification for Allsvenskan. \nIn the home qualification match was the old attendance record now wiped away..\n\n\nThe Allsvenskan qualification match against Degerfors in 1959 still is the current attendance record at Landskrona IP, however for League-football (or any other event than football, for that matter) are the attendance records as follows:\n\n\nAs Landskrona BoIS made a comeback in Allsvenskan for the 1971 season, after 21 seasons in lower tiers, the attendance record for the highest league, still was those 10.124 from 1929. But there was little doubts for the 1929 Allsvenskan record to remain. And..\n\n\nRecord attendances after the 1990 & 1991 reconstructions.\n\n\nDuring the seasons in the Third Millennium have Landskrona BoIS had the following average attendances at Landskrona IP:\n\nApart from the stadium, the facility offers several other football pitches (the so-called B-pitch even has stands of terrace type for approx 6000 attenders and is the home pitch for the small football club \"BK Landora\"), six tennis courts (currently only clay, but a grass court has previously existed), a modern athletic field, an indoor ice rink and an indoor arena for handball, basketball, table tennis and wrestling etc. Below the stadium's south stand, also an indoor 25-metre swimming pool and a so-called \"adventure bath\" are located. Everything is owned by Landskrona municipality and available for the public (for fees and within certain limitations). The stadium pitch and the B-pitch has natural grass. There are also two pitches with artificial turf and minor floodlights and another four grass pitches. A Greyhound racing pitch, equipped with floodlights also exists, but is currently no longer in use. A drill-house for horse jumping with associated stables and some fields are also located within the larger area. At a neighbouring upper secondary school, another indoor sports hall are available for indoor activeties. And for the special type of 7-men football, that in Sweden is known as \"Korpfotboll\", four smaller grass pitches are available. Since these pitches, during the season (late April until mid September) is heavily used, the pitches are moved around at a larger field. If necessary, the entire field for \"Korpfotboll\", can accommodate four full-size football pitches. (During July this have happened during summuer youth tournaments)\n\nThe floodlight system at the stadium produces a lighting of 823 lux and consists of four pillars and additional lights at the roof of the south stand. Some of the floodlight pillars fell down during a storm in the mid-1960s, a few years after they were built. Since then, the steel construction pillars have been reinforced by a system of long steel wires, at two levels (at approx. half their height and at the top) between each other in a rectangular pattern, and are anchored in huge blocks of concrete. They are currently (late summer 2013) the highest floodlight pillars used for football in Sweden.\n"}
{"id": "7749892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7749892", "title": "Lebanon at the 1992 Summer Olympics", "text": "Lebanon at the 1992 Summer Olympics\n\nLebanon competed at the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona, Spain. Twelve competitors, all men, took part in 15 events in 7 sports.\n\nTwo cyclists represented Lebanon in 1992.\n\n\nTwo fencers represented Lebanon in 1992.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7910143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7910143", "title": "Lluís Sitjar Stadium", "text": "Lluís Sitjar Stadium\n\nEstadio Lluís Sitjar was a multi-use stadium in Palma de Mallorca, Spain. It was used mostly for football matches and hosted the home matches of RCD Mallorca. The stadium was able to hold 18,000 people and opened in 1945. RCD Mallorca left the stadium in 1999 when ONO Estadi (Son Moix) opened, but the reserve team RCD Mallorca B continued to use the stadium until 2007, before they to moved on to Son Bibiloni, the club's training complex to the north of Palma.\n\nIts name is due to Lluís Sitjar Castellà, former president of RCD Mallorca on several occasions. It was renamed after him on 1960.\n\nDemolition works of the stadium began in November 2014 and was completed in April 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "36656853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36656853", "title": "Luang Prabang Stadium", "text": "Luang Prabang Stadium\n\nThe Luang Prabang Stadium or Luang Prabang regional stadium is a multi-purpose stadium in Luang Prabang, Laos. It is used mostly for football matches, but also for athletics, ceremonies and concerts. It is also the stadium that is used for the Luang Prabang Games. The Luang Prabang stadium holds 20,000 people. It has pink, yellow and blue tribunes, a small roof above the main tribune and a running track around the field.\n"}
{"id": "31559801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31559801", "title": "NBA G League Rookie of the Year Award", "text": "NBA G League Rookie of the Year Award\n\nThe NBA G League Rookie of the Year is an annual NBA G League (formerly known as the NBA Development League) award given since the league's inaugural season to the top rookie of the regular season. The league's head coaches determine the award by voting and it is usually presented to the honoree during the playoffs.\n\nFred House was the inaugural winner while playing for the North Charleston Lowgators. Two international players have won the award: Edwin Ubiles of Puerto Rico in 2012, and Abdel Nader of Egypt in 2017. By position, guards have won nine times and forwards eight times. No centers have been awarded the Rookie of the Year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31995606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31995606", "title": "Partille Cup", "text": "Partille Cup\n\nPartille Cup, started by the handball club IK Sävehof, is the world's largest annual tournament in handball in terms of number of participants. The tournament is played every year during one week in July by young people in the ages between 10 and 21 years old.\n\nPartille Cup was started by the handball club IK Sävehof.\nWhen the tournament started in 1970 Partille Cup was played in the small town of Partille. In 2001 the tournament started to move into Gothenburg, and was completely moved in 2004.\nToday Partille Cup is the world's largest and most international youth handball tournament. The event takes place in Gothenburg during week 27 every summer. Since the start, over 400 000 participants from 90 countries and six continents have participated.\nOn 4–9 July 2016, Partille Cup will be played for the 47th consecutive year. \n\nHeden, in central Gothenburg, is the tournaments heart with 30 fields and Heden Center: with information, sponsor village, sales and activities. \nAdditional playing field areas are Kviberg, Valhalla and Överåsvallen. In total, over 60 fields are being used and more than 4000 games are played. The tournament is played outdoors on artificial grass but the A- finals will be played indoors at the Scandinavium Arena and Valhalla Sportshall. In addition to the games, there is several peripheral activities for the participants. As the Opening Ceremony, Leaders Party and Players Club. Other arrangements are European Open Championship, a national tournament for boys and girls 18/19 years, and Solidarity Camp, dedicated for developing countries in handball. These events are organized with the European Handball Federation, the International Handball Federation and Olympic Committee.\n\nThe participants, aged between 10-21 years, are staying mostly at schools around Gothenburg, but many participants also choose to stay in hotels. Organizer of Partille Cup is the handball club IK Sävehof . The organization consists of four full-time and around 30 additional project managers prior to the tournament start. During the week, the organization consists of a total of 1,500 officers.\n\nPartille Cup – World of Handball\n\n"}
{"id": "8064738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8064738", "title": "Rudy Abbott Field", "text": "Rudy Abbott Field\n\nRudy Abbott Field is a baseball field located in Jacksonville, Alabama. It has been home to the Jacksonville State University Gamecocks baseball team since 1995. The field has a capacity of 1,500 and is named for former baseball coach Rudy Abbott.\n\n"}
{"id": "43833254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43833254", "title": "Sport4ever", "text": "Sport4ever\n\nSport4ever () or Maktoob Sport or Yahoo! Maktoob Sport is a sports site contains specialized forums. It is known as the first Arabic sports site on the Internet and one of the earliest Arabic sites in general.\n\nThe website was launched on 12 October 2000 by Sami Almalki, Adel Almalki, and Imran Athunayyan. In addition to being a news site, Sport4ever contains a rich historical information and a variety of sections like sport reports for players and clubs from around the world. The site incorporates libraries of images, videos, journals, matches schedules and so on. Sport4ever reached its summit glory in 2006 when it became one of the top 600 sites in the world according to Alexa.\n\nOn 1 April 2006, and in undisclosed deal, Maktoob announced that it had acquired an 80 percent stake in Sport4ever. The process was finalized on 24 April 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "32902116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32902116", "title": "Sport Club Cañadense", "text": "Sport Club Cañadense\n\nSport Club Cañadense is an Argentine sports club from Cañada de Gómez, Santa Fe Province. Although many sports are practised at the club, the institution is mostly known for both its football and basketball teams.\n\nThe club's football team plays in the Liga Cañadense de Fútbol, a local tournament which Sport Club won 18 times, becoming the top title-winner in league history. The basketball squad plays at the Torneo Nacional de Ascenso (TNA), the second division of the Liga Nacional de Básquetbol, which Sport Club participated 11 seasons. The team's most important achievement was in 1990, when reached the final games against Atenas de Córdoba but Sport Club finally was defeated 0–3.\n\nOther sports hosted by Cañadense are field hockey, gymnastics, roller skating, swimming and tennis.\n\n"}
{"id": "1323097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1323097", "title": "The Battery (2007 film)", "text": "The Battery (2007 film)\n\nTakumi Harada (Kento Hayashi) and his family moved to Okayama Prefecture during spring break before his entry to Junior High School. On the baseball field, Takumi has enormous confidence in his ability as a pitcher, but socially he is a loner and appears unapproachable to others. In the scene where he encounters Goh's mother, it is also revealed that he has little respect for elders as well.\n\nHis mother Makiko (Yūki Amami) is so protective of his younger brother, Seiha (Akihiro Yarita) that she acts coldly only to Takumi. His grandfather Yozo (Bunta Sugawara) was once a famous high school baseball coach who led his team to the national high school baseball convention at Koshien Stadium. Even his own caring family is not sure at times how to deal with the solitary side of Takumi. His father Hiroshi (Goro Kishitani) is a working father and is an amateur player in Baseball.\n\nTakumi meets a new classmate, Goh Nagakura (Kenta Yamada), who is captivated by Takumi's pitching and is eager to team with him as his catcher. They practice with some friends from the team, including Seiha who disobeys their mother's persuasions to not play baseball. The two join the Nitta East Junior High School baseball team, only to learn that the coach is a control freak. Takumi's classmate (Mayu Yajima) becomes attracted to his personality as he tells her to stand by her beliefs.\n\nTension began to rise as Takumi defies and clashes with the coach. However, it is resolved when Takumi's three classmates beat him and his coach sides with him in the encounter with the Headmaster (Ittoku Kishibe). Due to this, the three bullies are taken off the team but the team is also disbanded temporarily, meaning that they cannot join any competitions. In spite of this, the coach did not heed the Headmaster's warning but instead made an unofficial match against Yokote Junior High School. Due to the unprecedented skill of their batter, Takumi and Goh also began to clash as well, and eventually Seiha falls ill.\n\nTakumi's mother pushes Takumi away claiming that involving Seiha with baseball was the cause of his illness. However, the father suggested that Takumi should continue to play baseball. Takumi meets with Goh and the two reconcile, and both regain their talents in pitching and catching.\n\nIn the day of the big rematch, Takumi arrives late and therefore Nitta Junior High School used a substitute pitcher. Takumi visits his brother Seiha in the hospital and it is revealed that Seiha gathers strength when he hears Takumi is ready to play baseball. Seiha begs his brother to win the game, and Takumi bikes to the baseball field. He and Goh strike out their opponents and win the game.\n\n\n\"The Battery\" has also become a series simple called \"Battery\", with 11 episodes.\n"}
{"id": "38149707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38149707", "title": "Toyota Field", "text": "Toyota Field\n\nToyota Field is a soccer-specific stadium in San Antonio, Texas, United States. Located next to Heroes Stadium, and adjacent to the STAR Soccer Complex and Morgan's Wonderland, the facility opened on April 13, 2013. The stadium is the home of San Antonio FC and has a capacity of 8,296 for soccer matches and 13,000 for concerts and festivals. The stadium was the home of the San Antonio Scorpions of the North American Soccer League until the team's dissolution following the 2015 season. The stadium is expandable to 18,000+ seating capacity in three phases and is currently built to its Phase 1 design. Toyota Motor Corporation currently holds the sponsor naming rights for the facility.\nToyota Field was originally owned and operated by S.O.A.R. Inc., a non-profit organization founded by San Antonio philanthropist Gordon Hartman. During S.O.A.R. Inc.'s operation of the facility, all proceeds went to Morgan's Wonderland, which is across the street from the stadium. Hartman also started Soccer For A Cause, a community-wide effort to bring pro soccer to San Antonio in order to help fund the operation of Morgan’s Wonderland. This led to Hartman’s acquisition of the San Antonio Scorpions in 2010, with the team starting play in the 2012 season.\n\nConstruction of Toyota Field ran from February 2012 through April 2013. On April 13, 2013, the Scorpions started play at Toyota Field in a NASL match against the Tampa Bay Rowdies with a 0-2 defeat. The team had played at nearby Heroes Stadium during construction.\n\nToyota Field was host of Soccer Bowl 2014, where the Scorpions claimed their first and only NASL championship over the Fort Lauderdale Strikers, 2-1.\n\nIn November 2015, the City of San Antonio and Bexar County jointly acquired the stadium for $18 million. Spurs Sports & Entertainment (SS&E) paid an additional $3 million to Hartman, bringing the total purchase price of the facility to $21 million. SS&E received an initial 20-year lease to operate the facility with a new professional soccer team, with penalty fees of up to $5 million should the organization not bring a Major League Soccer franchise after the first six years. Toyota Field will be host to San Antonio's USL franchise, starting play in March 2016.\n\nToyota Field was designed by San Antonio architecture firm, Pro Sports Developments (PSD), which is the sports entertainment division of Luna Architecture and Design. The stadium was designed as a soccer-specific stadium, to strategically expand to upwards of 18,000 seats in 3 total phases and to accommodate UIL, NCAA, MLS and FIFA standard international soccer events. The design also accommodates rugby, lacrosse, American football, boxing and concerts. The stadium currently exists as Phase 1 in the stadium expansion phases.\n\nThe stadium currently has a capacity of 8,296 seats, including 16 private suites, 864 midfield club seats, a field level beer garden for over 200 fans with tiered table and chair seating as close as 15 feet behind the south goal. A suite level observation terrace for over 100 fans overlooks the entire field, plus a fan zone behind the north-end seating allows fans to gather and get autographs before and after a game. The stadium capacity could reach approximately 9,000 spectators with standing-room only accommodations.\n\nThe architectural design by PSD reflects the industrial heritage of the historic Longhorn Quarry which the stadium now resides in. The stadium contains ribbed metal and perforated metal facades with exposed structural elements throughout the facility, accentuating the steel and creating a contemporary industrial feel. The metal façades and the metal roof canopy that extends over the west side suite balconies and stadium seating, together amplify the crowd noise. The permanent west side roof canopy combined with lower bowl stadium seating that starts only 17 feet from the soccer touchlines gives Toyota Field an intimate feel, a quality the designers say will continue with the future expansion phases as planned.\n\nOn September 2, 2014, the Scorpions announced a planned expansion, which envisions the addition of 10,000 seats to the existing 8,000, with 9,000 of the new seats on a new upper tier that would create a bowl-like configuration around the playing field. 18 suites accommodating up to 24 fans apiece would be added to the east side of the stadium, bringing the total number of suites to 32. Plans also call for three new clubs – the East Club with 130 balcony seats on the east suite level, the West Club with 40 observation-terrace seats on the existing west suite level and a Members Club at the southeast corner of the stadium. Club patrons and suite holders would be allowed to use a new entrance directly across from existing reserved parking.\n\nOther proposed enhancements include concessions, restrooms and merchandise outlets on each stadium level to efficiently meet the level of fan demand at halftime; field lighting for Division 1 network broadcasting; and a team store accessible from inside and outside the stadium.\n\nThe soccer field playing surface was designed and built by sports field contractor Texas Multi-Chem, of Kerrville, Texas. The field's natural grass surface is TifSport hybrid Bermuda and the root zone consists of an 8\" layer of USGA sand and Dakota peat. The field also contains an internal drainage system to help avoid rain outs.\n\nThe Scorpions played their first game at Toyota Field on April 13, 2013 against the Tampa Bay Rowdies, losing 2-0.\n\nOn May 21, 2013, Toyota Field hosted its first Lamar Hunt U.S. Open Cup match between the Scorpions versus FC Tucson of the PDL.\n\nOn July 6, 2013, Toyota Field hosted its first international friendly match between the Scorpions versus Tigres UANL of Liga MX.\n\nOn October 13, 2013, Toyota Field hosted Santos Laguna versus Club Tijuana, both of Liga MX, in a friendly match.\n\nOn December 6–7, 2013, Toyota Field hosted the NCAA Division III Men’s Soccer Championship and the NCAA Division III Women’s Soccer Championship.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9213911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9213911", "title": "Veterans Memorial Stadium (La Crosse)", "text": "Veterans Memorial Stadium (La Crosse)\n\nVeterans Memorial Stadium is a stadium in La Crosse, Wisconsin. The original Veterans Memorial Stadium facility was built in 1948. It was demolished in 2008 and a new structure opened in 2009. It seats 10,000, with around 6,200 seats in the main grandstand. The stadium is primarily used for football and track and field. It is the home field of the University of Wisconsin–La Crosse Eagles. The 10-lane, 400 meter track complex has hosted several NCAA championships and hosts the Wisconsin Interscholastic Athletic Association state high school track and field championships each June. The stadium complex also houses the Veterans Hall of Honor meeting room.\n\nVeterans Memorial Complex was expanded to increase stadium seating to around 10,000, improve Harring Field and the surrounding track, and provide additional athletic fields for soccer and intramural sports. Officials wanted to attract and retain large events such as the WIAA state track meet, while having the necessary fields and associated structures to support both UW–La Crosse athletic and recreational activities as well as community events and programs. In the past, the New Orleans Saints had used La Crosse's facilities for the team's summer training camp. The university is said to be interested in attracting another NFL team to the campus.\n\nThe expansion, which had an estimated cost of about $14.5 million, began with demolition of the previous stadium in June 2008. The field and track itself was completed in September 2008, while the entire project was finished in August 2009.\n\nPrior to the beginning of the project, the university outlined various goals of the expansion. \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23998747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23998747", "title": "Wisconsin Golf Hall of Fame", "text": "Wisconsin Golf Hall of Fame\n\nThe Wisconsin State Golf Association (WSGA) established a Wisconsin Golf Hall of Fame in 1964 to honor distinguished amateurs for their significant contributions to the game of golf in Wisconsin. The five charter members of this elite group, all \"legends\" who made their \"mark\" in Wisconsin amateur golf circles, were E.P. \"Ned\" Allis, Dick Cavanagh, Lynford Lardner, Billy Sixty, Sr., and Wilford Wehrle.\n\nIn 1975, the WSGA Hall of Fame Committee changed the induction policies to allow professionals, women and public links players to be considered for the Hall of Fame. The first female to be inducted was Joyce Ziske Malison. In 1980, Archie Dadian of Whitnall Park GC became the first public links player to be elected to the Hall of Fame.\n\nAt present, plaques of all inductees, which outline their achievements along with an engraved likeness, are on display at Golf House of Wisconsin in West Allis. \n\nThe WSGA Hall of Fame Committee is composed of WSGA directors, golf professionals, women representatives, public links players and media delegates, who meet annually to review candidates. Candidate consideration is extended to individuals with outstanding golf records, and to those who have made exceptional contributions to the game of golf. All candidates must be at least 40 years of age and must receive at least 75% of the committee's votes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39605809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39605809", "title": "Yohann Tihoni", "text": "Yohann Tihoni\n\nYohann Tihoni (born 20 July 1994) is a soccer player from Tahiti currently playing for AS Roniu and for the Tahiti national football team.\nHe was part of the Tahitian squad at the 2013 FIFA Confederations Cup in Brazil.\n"}
