{"id": "7423372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7423372", "title": "1993–94 Cuban National Series", "text": "1993–94 Cuban National Series\n\nThe 33rd Cuban National Series saw further dominance from the previous year's group winners: Pinar del Río, Industriales, Villa Clara and Santiago de Cuba. Among them, only Pinar del Río won its group by fewer than seven games, in a 65-game season.\n\nAfter winning their semifinal series, Villa Clara and Industriales fought to a seventh and deciding game. Villa Clara ultimately won, after Jorge Fumero knocked in Ariel Pestano for the game's winning run.\n\n"}
{"id": "20914541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20914541", "title": "1–3–1 defense and offense", "text": "1–3–1 defense and offense\n\nThe 1–3–1 defense and offense is a popular strategy used in basketball.\n\nThe 1-3-1 zone defense is a defensive basketball formation. It was originally utilized by legendary basketball coach, Red Sarachek. This defense is named for its formation since there is one defender at the point, three defenders at the free throw level, and one defender at the base line. The main focus of this defensive strategy is to force turnovers. This is done by using quick, pestering defense and anticipating any passes to attempt a steal. A two-man trap is implemented in this defense. The defense attempts to guide the ball handler towards a corner and quickly close in and double team the offensive player creating a trap with the defenders and side lines. This trap often forces the ball handler to get rid of the ball prematurely taking the offense out of their set up. This often results in poor passes or shots. These poor passes are meant to be taken advantage of in this defense so the weak side defenders must anticipate passes to create turnovers.\n\nThe defensive usage of the 1-3-1 is mostly used to create turnovers, not for protecting the paint, due to only having one player down low. They usually have two guards to double team the ball carrier.\n\nAnother variation of the 1-3-1 defense is the full court press version. The lead guard will pressure the ball in the backcourt, and also can shade over to the side and form a 2-man trap \nwith a defensive player in the 3-set when an offensive guard tries to bring up the ball down the sideline.\n\nOne effective press-break against the 1-3-1 full court press is to have either the power forward or the center to flash to midcourt and then quickly pass the weak side guard running down the sideline, not allowing the trap to be formed.\n\nThere are multiple ways to approach defense in the sport of basketball. Typically they are divided into man defenses and zone defenses. The 1-3-1 zone defense is a zone defense. It falls under this category because each player guards a specific zone within the formation. This defense is named for its formation. A picture of the formation is shown on the right. In basketball positions are numbered from one to five. One and two are guards, three and four are forwards, and five is the center in a typical basketball lineup. Guards are quick and typically are good ball handlers and shooters. Forwards usually are the most athletic and are typically taller than the guards. The center is the tallest player and specializes in close vicinity to the basket.\n\nIn this formation, the one will take the top and meet the oncoming offensive guard. The two and three positions are split out on the edges of the court at free throw level, or on the wing. The four position is down beneath the basket and acts as a rover along the base line. The rover position is typically the best athlete’s position since there is the most area to defend around the basket. The five position is posted in the center of the formation at about free throw level.\n\nThe goal of the 1-3-1 zone defense is to create turnovers. This defense focuses extra pressure on the ball handler and will exert more effort to force turnovers. Turnovers within this defense are created by a couple key features of this strategy. Two defensive players will try to trap the ball handler in one of the corners of the half court. In basketball the ball can only be held for five seconds before passing, shooting, or dribbling. If a player is trapped in the corner they tend to stop their dribble before making a decision to pass or shoot. This creates a problem for the offense but is exactly what the defense wants to happen. When a player is double teamed without their dribble they tend to make poor decisions. Often bad passes and shots are forced out by the player just to get the ball out of the corner. It is vital for players not guarding the ball handler to anticipate a bad pass or shot in order to make a steal or get a rebound. This will help create the most turnovers.\n\nEach player will have their own responsibility in the zone. They each have their own area to guard on the court. Players will also shift as the ball is moved to be in better defensive position. This means moving to a better location to cut off passes and gather rebounds. Typically, the one will take the top position. They will meet the ball handler and force them in one direction while playing close defense. Based on the direction the ball handler dribbles the defender on the wing, either the two or three position, will close in on the ball handler for a double team. The intention is to force a double team quickly and drive the offensive player into a corner of the court. The double team creates a lot of free space on the court. The other three players must shift to cover this area equally during a trap. A trap can be made at any of the four corners both at the base line and at half court. The only difference is the base line is defended by the rover and they will trap with the wing instead of the one position. By forcing these double teams the offense will make long cross court passes. These passes are more likely to get stolen because they are less accurate and travel in the air longer. More space is open during a double team so the defenders not trapping must take advantage of the long passes and force any possible turnovers\n\nDefensively\nCoaches usually do this to throw the offense off tempo. It is thrown in to mix up the defensive look and force the offense to adjust or face flustering defensive pressure. Normally the 1-3-1 defense is used to create turnovers and is fast paced so players cannot keep it up the whole game. By applying pressure to the ballhandler the defense plans to take advantage of any mistakes forced from the pressure. The extra defensive pressure often makes the ball handler lose some composure and turn the ball over. By using this at key points in the game this strategy can change momentum, cause quick scoring shifts, and create a large enough lead to break the opponents morale. This defense is very effective if run correctly and can take a team out of the game both physically and mentally.\n\nOffensively\nThe 1-3-1 defense attempts to fluster the offensive set up. The key to beating the 1-3-1 zone is to get the defenders out of position. This is accomplished by quickly passing the ball around the perimeter. If the offense can pass the ball before the defense traps them then the defense must shift to adjust to the new ball position. As the defense shifts passing lanes open up and defenders have to rotate to stay in position. Speeding up the tempo and running fast breaks also can beat this defense. Pushing the ball quickly up the court gives the defense little time to set up the zone. If the offense can get to the basket before the zone sets up scoring can be achieved easily. The defense can easily be beaten if composure is kept and good passes are made. Issues occur when the offense is surprised by the extra pressure and is not expecting the trap that occur in basketball.\n"}
{"id": "19123611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19123611", "title": "2001 in chess", "text": "2001 in chess\n\nEvents in chess during the year 2001:\n\nFIDE top 10 players by Elo rating – October 2001;\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18826110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18826110", "title": "2008 Bhutan A-Division", "text": "2008 Bhutan A-Division\n\nThe 2008 season of the Bhutanese A-Division was the fourteenth recorded season of top-flight football in Bhutan. The league was won by Yeedzin FC, their first ever title, and the first time a team other than Transport United had won the league in five years. Yeedzin qualified as Bhutan's representative in the 2009 AFC President's Cup.\n\nTeams played each other on a home and away basis, there was no relegation or promotion.\n"}
{"id": "4654804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4654804", "title": "24h vélo de Louvain-la-Neuve", "text": "24h vélo de Louvain-la-Neuve\n\n\"Les 24 heures vélo de Louvain-la-Neuve\" (English: the \"24-hour bike ride of Louvain-la-Neuve\") is a Belgian festival organized by students from the Université Catholique de Louvain held every year during October in Louvain-la-Neuve. The main event is a 24-hour bicycle relay race spanning the whole city, surrounded by the crowd during various music concerts and parties.\n\nIt is said that the event gathers more than fifty thousand people and that it is the second largest \"beer event\" in Europe after the Oktoberfest. Approximately, 2000 students are involved in the organisation of \"Les 24 heures vélo de Louvain-la-Neuve\".\n\nIn 2006, the 30th edition of the event took place from 25 to 26 October.\n\nThe 2008 event passed without major incident, with between 45,000 and 50,000 people attending.\n\nThe 2009 edition, taking place from 21 to 22 October, was attended by more than 40,000 people. One particularly serious accident left a young man at risk of paralysis after a fall.\n\nIn 2012, the event took place from 24 to 25 October. About 40,000 people attended, but it was relatively trouble-free, with only 23 arrests, less than the previous year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28395768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28395768", "title": "Avándaro Golf Club", "text": "Avándaro Golf Club\n\nAvándaro Golf Club () is a golf course located in the Valle de Bravo state of Mexico. Located west of Mexico City, it hosted the eventing portion of the equestrian competition for the 1968 Summer Olympics.\n\nDuring the 1968 Games, the club had stables for 120 horses to have the event on the course and the neighboring countryside.\n\n"}
{"id": "22354180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22354180", "title": "Bear Down Gym", "text": "Bear Down Gym\n\nBear Down Gym, originally known as Men's Gymnasium, is a 300-seat multi-purpose arena in Tucson, Arizona. It opened in 1926. It was home to the University of Arizona Wildcats basketball team. It was replaced when the McKale Center opened in 1973. It is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nBear Down Gym is also famous for its inclusion in the 1984 blockbuster film Revenge of the Nerds. It was the gymnasium of the fictional \"Adams College\" and also temporary home to the Nerds after they were kicked out of their original Freshmen home (Cochise Hall).\n\nIt was designed by Lyman & Place/Roy Place, architect, and was built by Clinton Campbell.\n\nIt was listed on the National Register of Historic Places as Men's Gymnasium, University of Arizona in 1990.\n\nThe building has been renovated and updated to accommodate the growing needs of University of Arizona students, including housing resources for students such as the Think Tank, where students are tutored. Plans are in the works to add a three-story building over the spot currently holding an old swimming pool.\n"}
{"id": "3325587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3325587", "title": "Brisbane Cup", "text": "Brisbane Cup\n\nThe Brisbane Cup is a Brisbane Racing Club Group 2 Thoroughbred horse race for three-year-olds and upwards, run under handicap conditions over a distance of 2400 metres at Eagle Farm Racecourse, Brisbane during the Queensland Winter Racing Carnival. Prize money is A$300,000.\n\nDue to track reconstruction of Eagle Farm Racecourse for the 2014–15 racing season the event is transferred to Doomben Racecourse with a slightly shorter distance of 2200 metres.\n\nThe race was named as the Victory Cup in 1946 when racing was resumed after World War II in Queensland.\n\n\n\n† Dead heat\n"}
{"id": "1356175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1356175", "title": "Chichibunomiya Rugby Stadium", "text": "Chichibunomiya Rugby Stadium\n\nIt will be demolished. The space will be used for a parking lot for the 2020 Summer Olympics. Meiji Jingu Stadium will be demolished and the space used to build a replacement rugby ground.\n\nThe stadium currently can accommodate 27,188 spectators, but only part of the stands are covered. A large electronic scoreboard was added to the grounds as a step toward modernization before the fifth Rugby World Cup in 2003.\n\nOn April 19, 2007, it was announced that the stadium was to be equipped with lights for night games by the end of July, to assist with the RWC 2015 bid. The first rugby game under lights was Japan v Asian Barbarians in August 2007, the send-off for Japan going to RWC 2007. Since then it has been used for the first Top League game of the 2007–8 season between Suntory Sungoliath and Toshiba Brave Lupus, also played under lights and won 10–3 by the former on October 26, 2008.\n\nOriginally completed in 1947, it was at first called Tokyo Rugby Stadium. In 1953 the name was changed to Chichibunomiya Rugby Stadium. The stadium also served as a venue for football matches in the 1964 Summer Olympics.\n\nThe name Chichibunomiya commemorates the sporting prince, Prince Chichibu, who was not a rugby union player but was passionately fond of the sport and died in 1953. His statue is in the stadium.\n\nOn February 3, 2008, snow prevented two Top League games being played in the 13th and final round of the fifth season. They were postponed to February 9.\n\nFrom 2012 through 2015, the stadium hosted the Japan Sevens, a newly created event on the circuit for men's national rugby sevens teams now known as the World Rugby Sevens Series. When inaugurated, the tournament was the seventh on the circuit schedule, and was held in late March/early April. After the 2014–15 series, Japan was removed from the schedule in favor of a return to former series host Singapore.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15856695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15856695", "title": "David Wu (entrepreneur)", "text": "David Wu (entrepreneur)\n\nDavid Wu (born 1970) is co-founder and President of Sports Composite DE, Inc, which launched the online fantasy sports website RotoHog in February 2007. Wu and fellow founder Wharton School professor Kent Smetters develop a new way to play fantasy sports, in which team owners control the market for athletes by buying and selling athletes like stockbrokers on a trading floor.\n\nWu was born in 1970 and lived in Thousand Oaks, California from 1979 to 2006. Prior to Sports Composite DE, Inc., Wu was the CEO of SportsSE, Inc. He also founded VR One Net and was the general manager at Teltron Computers.\n\nDavid Wu attended the University of California Los Angeles as an undergraduate and the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School MBA program. Wu is also serving as Entrepreneur in Residence at the Wharton School as well as serving on the Executive Committee of the UCLA Venture Fund.\n\n"}
{"id": "567684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=567684", "title": "Defenceman", "text": "Defenceman\n\nDefence (defense in the USA) in ice hockey is a player position whose primary responsibility is to prevent the opposing team from scoring. They are often referred to as defencemen, defencewomen or defenceplayers, D, D-men or blueliners (the latter a reference to the blue line in ice hockey which represents the boundary of the offensive zone; defencemen generally position themselves along the line to keep the puck in the zone). They were once called cover-point. A good defenceman is both strong in defensive and offensive play and for defenceman pairing also need to be good at defending and attacking.\n\nIn regular play, two defencemen complement three forwards and a goaltender on the ice. Exceptions include overtime during the regular season and when a team is shorthanded (i.e. has been assessed a penalty), in which two defencemen are typically joined by only two forwards and a goaltender; in National Hockey League play in overtime effective with the 2015-16 season the teams have only three position players and a goaltender on the ice and may use either two forwards and one defenceman (typically), or conversely, two defencemen and one forward.\n\nOrganized play of ice hockey originates from the first indoor game in Montreal in 1875. In subsequent years, the players per side were reduced to seven per side. Positions were standardized, and two correspond to the two defencemen of current six-man rules. These were designated as cover point and point, although they lined up behind the center and the rover, unlike today. Decades later, defencemen were standardized into playing left and right sides of the ice.\n\nAccording to one of the earliest books on ice hockey, Farrell's \"Hockey: Canada's Royal Winter Game\" (1899), Mike Grant of the Montreal Victorias, describes the point as \"essentially defensive. He should not stray too far from his place, because oftentimes he is practically a second goal-minder ... although he should remain close to his goal-keeper, he should never obstruct that man's view of the puck. He should, as a rule, avoid rushing up the ice, but if he has a good opening for such a play he should give the puck to one of the forwards on the first opportunity and then hasten back to his position, which has been occupied, in the interim, by the cover-point.\"\n\nHugh Baird, then captain and cover-point of the Montreal Hockey Club, describes the cover-point as \"a combination of a defence man and a forward, and is allowed, in virtue of this fact, more latitude with respect to leaving his position, than any man on the team, except the rover. In his capacity of a defence player, he should linger around his goals as long as the puck is near... When the play is at the other end of the rink, the cover-point should advance to about the middle, so that when the puck is lifted down, he may return it without loss of time, in order to keep the game centered around his opponents' goals, and to save his forwards the trouble of skating up to him so that they may again 'get in to play.' It is by playing far up under these circumstances that a clever cover-point can chine to the advantage of his team. If he has a good opening he should shoot well for the goals, but if he has not, he should, as I have said, return the puck instantaneously.\"\n\nEach year the NHL, the premier ice hockey league in the world, presents the James Norris Memorial Trophy to the best defenceman in the league. Bobby Orr of the Boston Bruins – an eight-time Norris Trophy recipient – is often considered to be the greatest defenceman in NHL and ice hockey history. In addition to his Norris Trophy honours, he is the only defenceman in NHL history to capture the Art Ross Trophy as the league's leading scorer. In 1998, Orr was selected as the best defenceman of all-time (second overall player behind Wayne Gretzky) in \"The Hockey News\"' Top 100 NHL Players of all-time.\n\nConversely, according to the IIHF Centennial All-Star Team (also chosen by \"The Hockey News\"), the greatest defencemen to play in IIHF-sanctioned international competition are Vyacheslav Fetisov and Börje Salming.\n\nDefence players are often described by the amount they participate in the offence. The extreme of non-participation in offence is a \"Stay-at-home\" defender, who takes few risks and does not score much, instead focusing on defending against the opposing team. A good example is Rod Langway, who won the Norris Trophy while scoring only three goals that season, as the award winners preceding him were primarily offensive defencemen such as Bobby Orr, Denis Potvin, and Larry Robinson.\n\nThe extreme of participation is an \"offensive defenceman\", who gets aggressively involved in the team's offence. To accomplish this, the offensive defence player often pinches in to keep the play from going offside and moves towards the halfboards and high-slot area for scoring opportunities. This makes it difficult for the opposing team to protect their net from being scored upon if the team can maintain control of the puck. However, this can lead to more odd man rushes and breakaway opportunities for the opposing team if the defender does not succeed. Bobby Orr's end-to-end rushing allowed him to defend effectively as well as attack. By contrast, Paul Coffey enjoyed high offensive production but his defensive play was considered mediocre for most of his career.\n\nWhen in the defensive zone, the defence player is responsible for keeping the opposing forwards' opportunities to a minimum when they are on a rush, forcing them to the corners and blocking both passing and shooting lanes. When the opposing offence is putting pressure on the defence's team, the defence skater usually plays closer to the net, attempting again to block shooting lanes but also ensure that the goalie is not screened (prevented from being able to see the puck at all times). It is especially critical for the defenceman to keep opposing forwards from being able to move effectively in front of the net. If a shot on net is made, an unguarded forward can often redirect it too quickly for the goalie to adjust or else score on a rebound. Another important duty is clearing rebounds away from the goal, and preferably to the defenceman's teammates, before opposing forwards can get to them.\n\nIn the neutral zone, the defence hangs back towards his or her own blue line, usually playing the puck up to other teammates. According to Jay Leach, who writes for NHL.com's \"learn to play hockey\" section, the defence must \"Move the puck hard and quick to the open man. Join the rush, <nowiki>[but]</nowiki> do not lead it.\" Because of this responsibility, defencemen must read the other team's defensive strategy effectively in order to make an effective first pass that furthers the offensive momentum without leaving the defenceman out of position should his team lose control of the puck. In certain situations the best option could be to skate the puck into the zone to maintain offensive speed as well as preventing an offside.\n\nIn the offensive zone, the defence skaters usually \"play the blue line.\" It is their duty to keep the puck in the offensive zone by stopping it from crossing the blue line that demarcates where the offensive zone begins. Should the puck cross this line, the offence cannot touch the puck in their opponent's zone without stopping play (see offside). Defencemen must be quick to pass the puck around, helping their forwards to open up shooting lanes, or taking open shots themselves when they become available. The defence must also be able to skate quickly to cut off any breakaways, moving themselves back into the defensive zone ahead of the onrushing opponent.\n\nEssentially in all three zones of the rink, the defence is the backstop for the puck. It should never go behind the defence, unless the player lets it. The defence keeps the momentum of play squarely directed towards the opposing goal, or at least away from his own.\n\nBecause defencemen are often expected to shoot on the opposing net from long range, these players often develop the hardest and most accurate slapshots. This is because taking a more stationary position on the blue line rewards pure accuracy and patience, rather than the adept hand–eye coordination attributed to forwards. Al MacInnis, who was seven times decorated with \"Hardest Shot\" in NHL skills competitions, was able to score frequently from the blue line because his slapshot was simply too fast to block effectively.\n\nWhen a team is on a power play, a defence player can set up plays in the offensive zone, and distribute the puck to the teammate that he or she feels is in the best position to score, similar to a point guard in basketball and a quarterback in American football and Canadian football. For this reason, a defenceman will often be described as the power play \"quarterback\". This is also referred to as \"playing the point\" (this term derives not from the basketball position, but from an older name for the defence position in hockey itself).\n\nDuring faceoffs in the defensive zone, most teams have their defence players pair up with opposing forwards to tie them up while leaving the team's forwards open to move the puck, though this is at the discretion of the individual coach. In the offensive zone, the defence player acts in his or her usual role, keeping control of the puck as the forwards fight for position.\n\nIn the first organized ice hockey, (see Amateur Hockey Association of Canada), defencemen used to line up in an \"I\" formation behind the rover (defunct) as \"point\" and \"coverpoint\". Defence is still referred to as \"playing the point\", though this term now refers mostly to the role of defencemen on the power-play.\n\nDefencemen must possess excellent skating abilities, specifically in speed, constant foot movement and quick transitioning from forward to backward and vice versa. With regard to skating backwards, defencemen must acquire a higher skill level than offensive players. This allows them to face their offensive opponents as they rush down the ice toward the defensive zone. A defenceman must be as comfortable going backwards and sideways as forwards. Defencemen must also gain confidence in quickly carrying the puck to open up the attack during a defensive zone breakout. This requires the ability to burst out of the defensive zone with speed, yet at the same time having the ability to use their vision to execute quick passes to open forwards, or gaining the neutral zone before shooting the puck into the offensive zone.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48828042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48828042", "title": "Desi Adda: Games of India", "text": "Desi Adda: Games of India\n\nDesi Adda: Games of India is a collection of video games developed by Gameshastra and published by Sony Computer Entertainment Europe. It was released for PlayStation 2 on October 27, 2009. It was later released for PlayStation Portable and was the first Indian developed game to be added to PlayStation Network. The game was released in three languages: Hindi, Tamil and Punjabi.\n\n\"Desi Adda\" consists of a collection of cultural games from India, based on traditional Indian sports. These include kite fighting, Kabaddi, Pachisi, and Gilli-Danda. The player is placed in an Indian village, where they can play the different games with other villagers and converse with them. The player will learn from the villagers of a couple in love, and must interact with different villagers in order to progress the story. An additional beat-matching dance game is unlocked by completing the story.\n\nThe player takes the role of Avinash, the son of an NRI businessman. Avinash has lived aboard but returns on a trip to his ancestral village. During his visit, he meets Gowri and Gopal, a couple who are in love. The village head, Garjan Singh, opposes their match. Through his interactions with villagers, Avinash helps the couple gain approval for their wedding.\n\nThe game was developed by Gameshastra, an Indian-based developer. Sony Computer Entertainment Europe published the game, with the goal of helping keep the PlayStation 2 market in India alive. It is the first game developed entirely in India to be released on the PlayStation Network, and included three languages. \"Desi Adda\" was designed for both home consoles and handheld devices, and oriented towards casual gaming. It was targeted towards a first-time gamer audience between the ages of 8 and 15.\n\nBollywood Hungama was critical of the bonus beat matching game, calling it a \"show stopper\" as the controls were not very responsive. They were more receptive towards the Gilli Danda game, saying that the unpredictability made it fun. Ultimately however, they did not feel the game was worth the price. ET Now noted that the game was very simple in terms of gameplay and graphics, and was not really appealing to gamers over the age of ten.\n"}
{"id": "47640224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47640224", "title": "Duleep Cricket School", "text": "Duleep Cricket School\n\nDuleep Cricket School is a cricket ground in Porbandar, Saurashtra. The ground is also home ground of Saurashtra cricket team. The ground hosted a six cricket matches from 1968 to 1986 before falling of the record. The ground is named after great Indian cricketer and Prince of Nawanagar Kumar Shri Duleepsinhji.\n\nIn 2011, Jay Mehta, the co-owner of Kolkata Knight Riders, along with the Porbandar District Cricket Association decided to develop the Duleep Cricket School and to regain the domestic status. The proposal includes built outfield, dressing rooms, water-logging problems as well as pavilion and indoor cricket facilities.\n\n"}
{"id": "4593137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4593137", "title": "Estadio Max Augustín", "text": "Estadio Max Augustín\n\nThe Estadio Max Augustín is a multi-purpose stadium in Iquitos, Peru. It is the home ground of the football (soccer) team Colegio Nacional Iquitos and several other Copa Perú teams from Iquitos and the surrounding region. The stadium holds 24,576 people. It was built in 1942 and renovated in 2005. The stadium has artificial turf, an artificial running track, and was a venue in the 2005 FIFA U-17 World Championship\n\n"}
{"id": "41867098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41867098", "title": "FC Vakinankaratra", "text": "FC Vakinankaratra\n\nVakinankaratra FC is a Malagasy football club based in Vakinankaratra in the Antsirabe region in central Madagascar.\n\nThe team plays in the THB Champions League the top division of Malagasy football.\n\n"}
{"id": "35624893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35624893", "title": "Five Rings of Moscow", "text": "Five Rings of Moscow\n\nThe Five Rings of Moscow is a road bicycle racing stage race held annually in Moscow, Russia. It was first run in 1993 and since 2005 has been part of the UCI Europe Tour as a 2.2 category race. The most successful riders are Sergey Firsanov, Andrei Ptchelkine and Ivan Terenine, who have two victories each.\n"}
{"id": "1379411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1379411", "title": "Freerunning", "text": "Freerunning\n\nFreerunning is a way of expression by interacting with various obstacles and environment. Freerunning may include flipping and spinning. These movements are usually adopted from other sports, such as gymnastics, tricking or breakdancing. Freerunners can create their own moves, flows and lines in different landscapes. It is all about becoming creative in an objective environment. Practitioners of Freerunning usually do Parkour as well. Freerunning is often associated with Parkour by adding acrobatic and stylish moves, showcasing the art of movement. Freerunning was founded by Sebastien Foucan, who discussed the subject in Jump London in 2003. Foucan developed freerunning as a more inclusive form of \"Parkour\". Parkour's military obstacle course training lends itself to martial art as a means of weapons avoidance and efficiently closing a distance to an opponent.\n\nThe word \"freerunning\" was first used in the documentary, \"Jump London\". The name came about because of a suggestion by Sjors Peters, who was working with Knol at the time. The thinking behind the name was, to quote Knol, \"'Free' because it's free, and just 'running'.\" In the documentary, freerunning was defined as an English translation of Parkour.\n\nThe central principle of freerunning is that one should express oneself by moving fluidly in one's environment; there are no limitations on the form of this movement. Foucan expands on a number of basic principles of the sport in his book, \"Freerunning\". Other practitioners have suggested other principles. For example, Daniel Ilabaca encourages people to think positively, suggesting that practitioners of freerunning will sometimes fall—largely because they think they might.\n\nIn Western Europe, the idea of moving past obstacles for personal development or sport originated with Georges Hébert. He observed untrained native tribes in Africa with fantastic athletic ability and created the 'natural method' system to train people using the same ideas. His ideas eventually led to the \"parcours du combattant\" ('obstacle course', literally 'assault course'), which is now a standard of military training.\nThese ideas were picked up by a young Raymond Belle, who used them to practical effect while separated from his family during the First Indochina War. When he moved to France and started a family, he passed on these ideas to his son, David. 30 years later, other young people were attracted to these ideas and a small group formed, the Yamakasi, which included Foucan. This group trained together for several years and in 1997, through David Belle's brother, Jean-Francois, they started to attract attention and be invited to perform at events. The Yamakasi eventually split apart, though, because some members sought to find more individual expressions of the discipline. Meanwhile, action star Jackie Chan had also been heavily incorporating the same concepts in most of his films ever since the early 1980s from the other side of the globe.\n\nFoucan wanted to create a discipline that was more personal to the individual than Parkour and more easily adapted to suit each person's individual goals. His idea was similar to that of Bruce Lee's creation of Jeet Kune Do. Foucan wanted to take everything that he had found useful and that he liked from his Parkour experiences and combine it into one sport.\n\nFoucan's early ideas were first spread through the \"Jump London\" documentary (2003) and its sequel, \"Jump Britain\" (2005). Foucan has appeared in other productions, such as \"Casino Royale\" and Madonna's \"Confessions Tour\". With each appearance both the discipline and Foucan himself increased in fame.\n\nIn 2014, the BBC traveled to Indian administered Kashmir to highlight the youth partaking in freerunning as a form of freedom of expression.\n\n"}
{"id": "15932162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15932162", "title": "Grisham Stadium", "text": "Grisham Stadium\n\nGrisham Stadium is a multi-purpose stadium in Carrollton, Georgia. The stadium is home to the football program from Carrollton High School and is also the former home field for the University of West Georgia.\n\nGrisham Stadium is currently undergoing extensive renovations, which include a state-of-the-art artificial track and field, complete visitor's locker rooms, and updated concessions. A new grand entrance will be incorporated in 2008-2009 to include a brick memorial walkway. A bronze Trojan monument will also greet fans upon entering the updated stadium. These additions will be linked with the existing \"TrojanTron\" and Matrix Boards, as well as the home fieldhouse which houses the Trojan Hall of Fame.\n"}
{"id": "7499499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7499499", "title": "Guinea at the 1988 Summer Olympics", "text": "Guinea at the 1988 Summer Olympics\n\nGuinea competed at the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul, Korea.\n\nMen's Marathon\n\n"}
{"id": "1886405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886405", "title": "Independence Park (Jamaica)", "text": "Independence Park (Jamaica)\n\nIndependence Park is a sports and cultural complex in Kingston, Jamaica built for the 1966 British Empire and Commonwealth Games. It houses a variety of sports facilities. A statue of Bob Marley marks the entrance to the site. The main sports venue at the complex is the National Stadium.\n\nThe National Stadium is primarily used for football (being the home field of the Jamaica Football Federation) but is also considered the apex of Athletic competition in the West Indies being home to Jamaica's national athletic team for the Olympic Games and Commonwealth Games.\n\nIt was built for the 1962 Central American and Caribbean Games, for which it was the main stadium hosting the opening and closing ceremonies, track and field and cycling events. It was also home to the 1966 British Empire and Commonwealth Games. It holds 35,000 people.\n\nFacilities include:\n\nA statue of Olympic gold medallist Don Quarrie guards the entrance to the stadium.\n\nOther statues in the complex include those of Arthur Wint, Herb McKenley and Merlene Ottey.\n\nThe pools were built to host the aquatic events of the\n1962 Central American and Caribbean Games. The main swimming pool was modified to accommodate the 1966 British Empire and Commonwealth Games which required that distances be in yards as opposed to metres. It currently seats 8,500.\n\nThe National Arena was built to host the Weightlifting and Wrestling events of the 1966 British Empire and Commonwealth Games. It holds 6,000 people and was opened in 1963.\n\nIt is now used for a wide range of activities including sports tournaments (netball, table tennis, etc.), trade exhibitions, flower shows, the National Festival song and costume competitions and state funerals.\n\nThe National Indoor Sports Complex was built adjacent to the National Arena to host the 2003 IFNA Netball World Championships. It holds 6,000 people and opened in 2002. It also is used to host events such as parties, fashion shows as well as other sports such as basketball.\n\nThese are outdoor netball courts located in between the basketball courts and Swimming Complex. It is named after Leila Robinson, the first ever netball coach and manager for the Sunshine Girls. It underwent renovations at the end of 2014 into 2015 where the complex, which hosts four netball courts, received a huge makeover including a new state-of-the-art ISO approved red and blue surface, replacing the outdated rubberized surface as well as new stands, located on the right side of the complex, which now accommodated persons with disabilities. The renovations cost upward of $23 million.\n\nThe Institute of Sports (INSPORTS) was established in 1978 by the Government of Jamaica to promote the development of sport at the national level. It is located beside the National Arena. The building houses the Jamaica Table Tennis and Volleyball associations at the bottom floor; Netball Jamaica, Special Olympics and Basketball (JABA) associations on the second floor; and the Institute of Sports on the top floor.\n\nThese are the outdoor basketball courts located beside the Leila Robinson Netball Courts. The complex hosts two basketball courts with stands to the left of the complex.\n\n"}
{"id": "53011426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53011426", "title": "Jeffrey Nedd", "text": "Jeffrey Nedd\n\nJeffrey Nedd (born 16 January 1957 in Oranjestad, Aruba) is a boxer who competed internationally for Aruba.\n\nNedd competed at the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul, South Korea, he entered the light-heavyweight class but was stopped in the second round of his opening fight by Kenyan Joseph Akhasamba, so didn't advance any further.\n\nIn 2011 Nedd was the Aruba National Head Coach.\n"}
{"id": "51386038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51386038", "title": "Jennifer Chieng", "text": "Jennifer Chieng\n\nJennifer Chieng (born April 29, 1986) is a boxer from the Federated States of Micronesia. She competed at the 2016 Summer Olympics in the women's lightweight event, in which she was eliminated in the round of 16 by Mikaela Mayer. She was the flag bearer for her country at the Parade of Nations.\n\nChieng made her pro MMA debut on Oct. 13 at Bellator 208 with a TKO victory over Jessica Ruiz.\n"}
{"id": "59133750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59133750", "title": "Joe Kryczka", "text": "Joe Kryczka\n\nJoseph Julius Kryczka (; June 4, 1935 – January 11, 1991) was a Canadian ice hockey administrator, lawyer and judge, who was commonly known as \"Justice Joe\". His hockey career included tenures as president of the Alberta Amateur Hockey Association, and later the Canadian Amateur Hockey Association from 1971 to 1973. He began his legal career as a lawyer, then was appointed a judge, and later elevated to a justice on the Court of Queen's Bench of Alberta.\n\nKryczka was the lead negotiator who secured the agreement for Canada to play the Soviet Union at the 1972 Summit Series. His negotiating skills were unrecognized at the time, and his contribution to the Summit Series was overshadowed by Alan Eagleson. During his career he negotiated other notable disagreements in Canadian hockey. When the Western Canada Hockey League broke away from the governing body, Kryczka was able to reunite the league with the rest of Canada, and maintain the threatened the Memorial Cup competition. He also successfully brought Alberta hockey back under the national umbrella when it resigned. He later dealt with the World Hockey Association when it raided rosters of Canadian junior teams without compensation, and then became the first commissioner of the Canadian Major Junior Hockey League.\n\nKryczka graduated from the University of Alberta, and played hockey with the Golden Bears. He practiced law in Calgary for over 20 years, was a director with the Calgary Cowboys, and later played a key role with Calgary's successful bid for the 1988 Winter Olympics. He was later inducted into both Canada's Sports Hall of Fame and the Alberta Sports Hall of Fame in 1990.\n\nKryczka was born June 4, 1935, in Coleman, Alberta. He grew up playing minor ice hockey until the juvenile age level in Coleman, and was captain of the juvenile team in the 1951–52 season. He attended Coleman High School, and received a bursary from the Elks of Canada for having the highest marks in grade nine. He graduated with honours in 1953 as the class valedictorian.\n\nKryczka enrolled at University of Alberta in 1953, and graduated with a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1957. He was active in student life, serving as president of both the political science and law clubs, and was secretary of the student council. He played junior baseball for his Coleman team in summers. He played three seasons of ice hockey as a defenceman with the Golden Bears, and was teammates with his brother Adam in 1955. He earned two varsity letters in university, but a shoulder injury ended his playing career. He completed his law degree in 1958 at the University of Alberta. The university awarded him a gold ring for scholastic achievements, and received the Lorne Calhoun Memorial Award for contributions to student activities.\n\nKryczka became an articled clerk in Calgary under future Court of Appeal of Alberta justice David Clifton Prowse, and was called to the bar in 1959. He was originally associated with the law firm of Peter Lougheed in the early 1960s, and then became a partner of Mason and Kryczka. He later served as vice-president of the Alberta Young Liberal Association in 1966, and continued to practice law in Calgary until 1980.\n\nKryczka began volunteering as community hockey coach in 1959, and also refereed in various leagues. He was elected to the executive committee of the Alberta Amateur Hockey Association (AAHA) in 1963, and served as the Calgary Booster Club president from 1964 to 1965. He was elected second vice-president of the AAHA in September 1966, and became its president in October 1967.\n\nKryczka's presidency of the AAHA coincided with the formation of the Western Canada Hockey League (WCHL), which had teams in Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba. Various disputes arose with the WCHL, because it was outside of the jurisdiction of the Canadian Amateur Hockey Association (CAHA), the governing body for the AAHA. In February 1969, the CAHA and Kryczka as president of the AAHA, were named in a lawsuit by the WCHL and its governing body, the Canadian Hockey Association. The WCHL sought development money for its players drafted by the National Hockey League (NHL), as per the draft agreement between the NHL and the CAHA, but the CAHA refused to distribute money to a league it did not sanction. Later that month, Kryczka gave an ultimatum to the Alberta Hockey Referees Association, stating that the AAHA would only use referees which did not officiate in the WCHL. The decision threatened to end an agreement from October 1968, where referees in Alberta formed an independent organization to officiates games for both governing bodies. Later in March, Kryczka suspended two referees who still worked games in the WCHL.\n\nAt the 1969 CAHA annual general meeting, Kryczka said that the WCHL succeeded in drawing many fans, and gave an opportunity for many young men to play in Western Canada. He also felt that CAHA branches such as Alberta, should be able to establish a major junior category for higher-level competition, similar to what the WCHL did across three provinces. The CAHA reorganized its committees to give more representation at the national level to its leagues, but the motion to have a major junior classification was defeated.\n\nKryczka was elected vice-president of the CAHA in May 1969. In September 1969, he was optimistic that the CAHA and the WCHL would be able to agree on reuniting. He felt it would be possible if the WCHL agreed to appropriately compensate CAHA teams from which players were signed, and that there would be no expansion into cities with an existing CAHA team. He further confirmed that the CAHA had not approved of its players being signed by the WCHL, or relocation into its territory. He said that the CAHA would not agree to those demands of the WCHL, which are against CAHA regulations. Later in 1969, Canada and the CAHA withdrew from play in the Ice Hockey World Championships over a dispute with the International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF) regarding the use of professionals, which began a continuing feud between Kryczka, and IIHF president Bunny Ahearne.\n\nThe CAHA added multiple vice-presidents as of 1970, and Kryczka was elected first vice-president by acclamation on May 29, 1970. He took objection to Clarence Campbell stating that the NHL may need to revert back to direct ownership of teams, because of concessions made to the WCHL, and having different age limits across Canada's junior hockey system. Kryczka felt that the CAHA adequately resolved its disagreements with the WCHL, and did not need NHL personnel getting involved. He stated that the 1971 Memorial Cup would not likely be played, due to the Ontario Hockey Association Junior A division and the Quebec Junior Hockey League being in disagreement with the number overage players in the WCHL. He mentioned the potential for changing regulations at the upcoming general meeting, requiring teams to agree to the competition in order to receive development funds from the NHL agreement.\n\nKryczka succeeded Earl Dawson as president of the CAHA, on May 29, 1971. The role also made him a director with Hockey Canada for two years. He hoped to make the CAHA financially independent of both the NHL and the Government of Canada, and become more of an administrative body. Shortly after becoming president, Kryczka announced a resolution to the Memorial Cup competition, where the Ontario and Quebec leagues agreed to compete with the Western Canada teams which gave up having extra overage players. As part of the agreement, all three leagues were invited to participate in the meetings to renew the CAHA-NHL contract when it expired in 1972. \n\nIn June 1971, he announced that the CAHA had rejected an invitation from the IIHF to return to play in the World Championships, since Canada would still not be able to use its professional players. Later that year in September, Kryczka stated that the CAHA had not been invited to play in the 1972 Winter Olympics in Sapporo, and accused Ahearne of political grandstanding for saying that Canada could be removed from the IIHF for its refusal to play.\n\nKryczka met with Harold Wright of the Canadian Olympic Association (COA) in September to review the situation, and Wright confirmed that the COA received an invitation to the Winter Olympics on July 28. Wright felt that he decision was in disregard to recreational hockey in Canada, and that the CAHA should send a team, as the Olympics was a different an unrelated tournament, compared to the World Championships. The CAHA was urged by the COA to send an amateur team, since the Canadian Interuniversity Athletics Union (CIAU) proposed sending a team in lieu of the CAHA.\n\nDespite the discussions, Kryczka was committed to the CAHA's withdrawal from international play, until it could use its best players against the Europeans. He stated that Canada would voice its concerns at the next IIHF general meeting in the summer of 1972. He felt that the IIHF should allow professionals in the World Championships similar to FIFA, and reiterated that the CAHA had a good relationship with the NHL, which would release such players for an event. Kryczka remained open to other competitions, which included the Izvestia Cup. \n\nMeanwhile, Kryczka had been collaborating for two years with Charles Hay from Hockey Canada, in attempts to convince the Soviet Union to play Canada in a hockey series allowing professional players. In February 1972, the Canadian Bureau of Public Affairs empowered Kryczka, Hay and Lou Lefaive from Sport Canada, to oversee diplomatic efforts to return Canada to international ice hockey, and gave them needed assistance from Canadian embassies in Europe, and specifically the Embassy of Canada in Moscow. Other notable Canadians involved in the process included Gordon Juckes from the CAHA, Doug Fisher and Allan Scott from Hockey Canada, Robert Ford the Canadian ambassador in Moscow, and translator Aggie Kukulowicz who worked at Air Canada in Moscow.\n\nThe negotiations for a Canada-Soviet series were finalized at the Hotel International Prague during the 1972 World Ice Hockey Championships. Kryczka was chosen as the lead negotiator of behalf of the Canadian delegation, due to his legal background. He also went into the negotiations with an understanding of the Russian language, but never revealed this to the Soviets. As a child, his neighbours were Russian immigrants who never spoke to him in English. After each day of negotiating, he informed Hay of what the Soviets had said to each other. Kryczka later gave an interview to journalist Jim Coleman, and said that the Soviets had previously decided they could defeat any NHL team, and drew out negotiations to get more concessions on the rules of play.\n\nThe final agreement negotiated by Kryczka stipulated that Soviet players were to be paid per game in Canada, and Canadian players were to be paid SUR5,000 per game in Moscow. It also stipulated the choice of referees was acceptable to both parties. It was signed on April 18, 1972, and agreed to an eight-game series where both Team Canada and the Soviet Team were allowed unrestricted rosters which included professionals. The two-page document had no official seal or letterhead, but included the signatures of Kryczka, Andrey Starovoytov as the general secretary of the Soviet Union Ice Hockey Federation, and the approvals of Ahearne as the president of the IIHF, and former CAHA president Fred Page as the vice-president of the IIHF.\n\nKryczka and Starovoytov announced the agreement later the same day, but Kryczka did not promise that Canada return to the playing at the World Championships. After the successful negotiations with the Soviets, he intended to table a similar proposal for the World Ice Hockey Championships at the next summer congress of the IIHF. United Press International reported that upcoming Soviet series likely indicated Canada's return to international play, and the IIHF would likely vote in favour of Canada's proposal to include professionals. Kryczka was also encouraged by feedback from IIHF vice-president Page, who was keeping the CAHA informed of international matters, and was also a CAHA director-at-large.\n\nKryczka began his second year as president by speaking to delegates at the 1972 general meeting of the CAHA. He warned of a government report which recommended a paid commissioner to run and oversee amateur hockey in Canada. He felt that would take away the incentive for parents to volunteer in amateur hockey, and kill programs at the grass roots levels of hockey. The meeting saw the CAHA vote down a rule amendment that would have allowed Karen Koch to play on a men's team, and Kryczka announced that the CAHA would study its organizational structure, and would be prepared to include female teams and leagues in the future. Also at the meeting, the AAHA gave notice of resignation from the CAHA, due to differences arising from the CAHA-NHL agreement. The AAHA felt that the CAHA should charge registration fees to player for its administration fees, rather than be bound by the NHL and rely on it for income. Kryczka remained confident that an Alberta branch could be reformed, and operate with the CAHA. He announced in August 1972, that the AAHA rejoined the CAHA after working out their differences.\nKryczka went to the 1972 summer congress of the IIHF in Mamaia, Romania, to make his proposal for professionals at the World Championships, and was also expecting a North American delegate to replace Ahearne as IIHF president. The president's position had alternated every three years between Europe and North America, as part of the agreement for the CAHA and the Amateur Hockey Association of the United States (AHAUS) to join the IIHF in 1947. Kryczka had been a vocal opponent of IIHF president Ahearne, and criticized Ahearne's meetings as non-parliamentary, and not following acceptable procedures. The North America delegation made Page its unanimous nominee, but instead of Page being acclaimed president, Ahearne declared a vote must take place, and the Europeans disapproved of the nomination. Kryczka was subsequently nominated by the United States, but he declined the position feeling he wasn't experienced enough. After a brief recess and then CAHA secretary Juckes also being voted down, Ahearne was reelected in lieu of an acceptable North American candidate.\n\nThe roster for the Canada-Soviet series was chosen in August, by a committee composed of members from the CAHA, Hockey Canada, the NHL, and the National Hockey League Players' Association (NHLPA). Kryczka was disappointed that players from the World Hockey Association (WHA) were excluded from the series since he felt the team should be open all Canadians regardless of which professional league they played for, but he ultimately accepted the decision. The CAHA scheduled additional exhibition games for the Canadian team while in Europe playing the Soviets, that caused Kryczka and Ahearne to disagree over the television rights of a game against Czechoslovakia, when the CAHA refused to pay royalties to the IIHF which threatened to not sanction the game.\nThe Canada-Soviet series began September 2, 1972, and Canadians believed they would easily defeat the Soviets. Instead, after seven games it was tied with 3 wins each and a draw. The Canadians and Soviets disagreed over who should referee the final eighth match. Kryczka was against having the West German officials Josef Kompalla and Franz Baader referee the game, and demanded to have Ove Dahlberg of Sweden, and Rudy Batja of Czechoslovakia. A compromise was reached that included Kompalla and Batja as referees for the eighth game, and in the pregame ceremony Kryczka and Alan Eagleson presented the Soviet hosts with a totem pole as a gift from Canada. Canada went on to win the final game by a 6–5 score, and won the series 4 games to three, with a draw.\n\nKryczka received little credit at the time for his role in the series and was overshadowed by Eagleson, with whom he shared a mutual dislike. Eagleson was attending the World Championships and was not part of the negotiations, but he was the first person to phone Canada from Prague, and take credit for the event by reporting the agreement. Journalist Remy Greer argued that, \"if it wasn’t for the negotiating prowess of Kryczka, the series might never have happened\". Eagleson felt that series was made by the NHL players, and gave no thanks to others involved. He felt that Kryczka only helped with the totem pole, and nothing else. Kryczka's wife later said that she needed to sit between them at each game, as they were both \"loud-mouthed lawyers\" with a \"hate-hate relationship\".\n\nThe Canada-Soviet series later became known as the Summit Series, and fostered a source of national pride as a significant historical event. Kryczka said that Canadian amateur hockey gained from the series because the CAHA earned $100,000 as its share of the profits, and it would be probable to see another similar professional event due to public demand. He also speculated that the success of the CAHA in negotiating the series, may render the rival Hockey Canada structure obsolete. He was open to more tournaments and games which followed IIHF statutes, and condemned reports that the NHL and the NHLPA were trying to negotiate international games on their own for the sake of keeping profits to themselves, instead of following proper international procedures. He felt that the CAHA deserved its credit for developing the international game, and opening the door for the NHL to play the Soviets. He said that European clubs were interested in playing, as long as sanctioning went through the IIHF, the CAHA or AHAUS. Canada later played the Soviets again in the 1974 Summit Series, which led to the establishment of the Canada Cup in 1976, and the subsequent return of Team Canada to the World Championships in 1977.\n\nAfter the 1972 series, Kryczka gave a directive to the minor ice hockey council of the CAHA to find ways to improve its youth development system, and catch up to the Soviet system. He looked towards junior hockey as the next big stage for international hockey to be played at the IIHF World U20 Championship being planned in 1974, and said that Canada and the USA had been collaborating on a planned 1975 event. He also said that at the junior age level, there would be no concerns over who is or is not a professional player, and that the CAHA agreed to send the reigning Memorial Cup champion to represent Canada at the events. Kryczka announced in January 1973, that he would not seek reelection as CAHA president. \n\nKryczka's remaining four months as president were occupied by dealing with the WHA competing for junior-aged players, and threatening the CAHA's existing draft and development agreement with the NHL. Kryczka had previously sent a letter to WHA president Gary Davidson, requesting the league honour the age at which players become professionals, as agreed with the NHL. On February 15, 1973, the WHA permitted its teams one month to negotiate and sign any junior, college, or non-professional of amateur draft age, which Kryczka called disruptive to junior hockey. He warned CAHA teams that any player which signed a professional contract would be ruled ineligible to continue playing in the CAHA. Kryczka and Juckes set up a meeting on February 23, 1973, between the CAHA, each of its three leagues, and the WHA to the discuss attempted signings of junior players without paying development fees. When the Houston Aeros signed underage players Marty Howe and Mark Howe to professional contracts, Kryczka stated that the WHA was continuing to undermine the junior hockey system in Canada. In his final speech as president of the CAHA at the 1973 general meeting, he expressed his disappointment in the negotiations being broken off by WHA which claimed development fees being too high. He felt that the WHA was trying to break apart unity by attempting to deal directly with the WCHL instead of the CAHA, and he also discounted rumors that the Saskatchewan Amateur Hockey Association wanted to break away from the CAHA.\n\nKryczka was succeeded as president of the CAHA by Jack Devine, on May 25, 1973 at the annual meeting. After his term as president, Kryczka was appointed chairman of the CAHA rules committee, and was responsible for enforcing discipline. He fined the Humboldt Broncos management $500, for refusing to play game six of the 1973 Centennial Cup playoffs. At the 1974 general meeting, the rules committee aimed to reduce eye injuries and obscenities directed at referees, and empowered the officials to enforce the appropriate rules more strictly. At the 1975 general meeting, the rules committee dealt with the increase of violence in hockey, recommended more severe penalties for cross-checking and high-sticking above the shoulders, raised the punishment for abuse of officials, and suggested game misconducts to deter fighting.\n\nOn July 23, 1974, Kryczka was appointed to be the first commissioner of the newly formed Canadian Major Junior Hockey League (CMJHL), effective August 1, 1974. The CMJHL was an umbrella organization composed of the Western Hockey League (WHL), the Ontario Hockey Association Major Junior A division, and the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League. WHL president Ed Chynoweth, said that Kryczka was the unanimous choice among the three constituent leagues, and gave Kryczka the task of writing a constitution, and standardizing the playing rules and players' contracts.\n\nKryczka was one of directors for the Calgary Cowboys team in the WHA. During the 1976 WHA playoffs versus the Quebec Nordiques, Kryczka felt that the league caved into the demands of Quebec, because the Nordiques threatened to abandon the series after a series of on-ice incidents. He agreed with the ultimate decision to continue the series, and avoid further discredit to the WHA. Kryczka stated that Calgary needed to build a replacement for the Stampede Corral, in order to remain competitive in major league hockey. When rumors surfaced that the Cowboys were considering moving to the proposed Copps Coliseum to be built in Hamilton, Ontario, he denied that the team wanted to move, and reiterated a commitment to the city. \n\nKryczka was recognized as a Queen's Counsel in 1975, for accomplishments as a lawyer, and contributions to the community. He was appointed to the Court of Queen's Bench of Alberta by Jean Chrétien in July 1980, the then Minister of Justice of Canada. Kryczka served as a justice on the Court of Queen's Bench for the remainder of his life. As a lawyer, he acted as legal counsel for the Alberta Hockey Referees Association, when the organization disputed suspensions by the AAHA for referees officiating games in 1978 without wearing helmets.\n\nKryczka was named the director of legal affairs for Calgary's 1988 Winter Olympics bid in 1979. He worked with the Canadian Olympic Committee, and helped win the first Winter Olympic Games hosted in Canada. He met with members of the International Olympic Committee, and was confident that the American-led boycott of the 1980 Summer Olympics would not affect the voting for Calgary's bid. The Soviet Olympic Committee told Calgary bid president Frank King, that it would vote for Canada, if Kryczka ran the hockey events. After the Olympics, Kryczka became a director on the Canadian Olympic Development Association. \n\nKryczka was later diagnosed with intestinal cancer. He died January 11, 1991, at Foothills Medical Centre in Calgary. He was interred near his parents at St. Mary's Cemetery in Calgary.\n\nKryczka was the second of three sons to Joseph and Maria Kryczka, who immigrated to Canada in 1934 from Zabawa, Poland. His father worked in the coalfields at Crowsnest Pass. His eldest brother Ted also played hockey for the Golden Bears, once participated in a Chicago Blackhawks training camp, and was a town counselor for Coleman from 1961 to 1978. His younger brother Adam was a goaltender on the Golden Bears, and is the namesake of the Adam Kryczka Memorial Trophy. \n\nKryczka was married to Marion North during summit series. At the time of his death, he was married to Beverley Kryczka, and was survived by four children, his mother, his older brother Ted, and one granddaughter. His son Patrick married Nicole Dunsdon, a former Miss Canada, and their son Spencer, played hockey for the Okotoks Oilers, and the Princeton Tigers. Kryczka's sister-in-law was Alberta politician Karen Kryczka, who was married to his brother Adam. His niece Kelly Kryczka was an Olympic medalist, and the daughter of Adam and Karen.\n\nHis family kept souvenirs from the Summit Series, including the original two-page document signed in Prague, which had been stored in a safe at his law office.\n\nKryczka was named the 1972 Air Canada Amateur Sports Executive of the Year. As part of its awards program, Air Canada donated a block of 20 air passes to the CAHA on behalf of Kryczka. He received a special achievement award in hockey from the Calgary Booster Club in 1972, and was made an honorary life member of the club in 1982. Kryczka was inducted as a builder into the both the Alberta Sports Hall of Fame, and Canada's Sports Hall of Fame in 1990. Other honours include being made a life member of the CAHA, a life member of Hockey Alberta, and a life director of the Calgary Olympic Development Association. He is also the namesake of the Joe Kryczka Arena, at the Southland Leisure Centre in Calgary.\n\nGeneral\nSpecific\n"}
{"id": "614504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=614504", "title": "Joe Louis Arena", "text": "Joe Louis Arena\n\nJoe Louis Arena is a defunct multi-purpose arena in Detroit, Michigan. Completed in 1979 at a cost of $57 million as a replacement for the Detroit Olympia, it sits adjacent to Cobo Center on the bank of the Detroit River and is accessible by the Joe Louis Arena station on the Detroit People Mover. The venue is named after former heavyweight champion boxer Joe Louis, who grew up in Detroit.\n\nIt was the home of the Detroit Red Wings of the National Hockey League and the second oldest NHL venue after Madison Square Garden until the start of the 2017–18 NHL season. Joe Louis Arena is owned by the city of Detroit, and operated by Olympia Entertainment, a subsidiary of team owner Ilitch Holdings.\n\nIn April 2017, the Red Wings hosted their final game at Joe Louis Arena; the venue was succeeded by the new Little Caesars Arena, in Midtown Detroit, beginning with the 2017–18 season. Joe Louis Arena will be demolished, and its site slated for redevelopment. The arena closed on July 30, 2017. Demolition was scheduled to begin in September 2017, but Olympia renewed the lease of the arena with the city and are using it as storage and offices until November 2017. Olympia Entertainment moved out in November 2017, and demolition is planned to begin sometime in 2019.\n\nJoe Louis Arena replaced the Olympia Stadium, where the Detroit Red Wings had played since 1927. The neighborhood around the Olympia had gradually deteriorated, especially after the 1967 Detroit riot. After two murders near the Olympia, Red Wings owner Bruce Norris seriously considered moving to a proposed arena in suburban Pontiac. However, the city of Detroit countered with a proposal for a new riverfront arena at one-third of the rent Pontiac was offering. The package also gave the Red Wings operational control of the arena, nearby Cobo Arena and nearby lots.\n\nThe arena hosted its first event on December 12, 1979: a college basketball game between the University of Michigan and the University of Detroit. The Red Wings played their first game at Joe Louis Arena on December 27, 1979, hosting the St. Louis Blues. The game ended in a 3-2 loss for the Red Wings. The Red Wings first win at the arena came on December 30, 1979, where they defeated the New York Islanders 4-2. Later that first season it hosted the 32nd NHL All-Star Game on February 5, 1980, which was played before a then-NHL record crowd of 21,002. Joe Louis Arena was the site of the 1987 NHL Entry Draft, which marked the first NHL Entry Draft to be held in the United States. In 1980, the arena hosted the Republican National Convention that nominated Ronald Reagan as the Republican candidate for President of the United States.\nIn 1990, color matrix boards were installed on the scoreboard; these were replaced by four Sony JumboTron video walls three years later, when the matrix boards were placed in the corners of the fascia. In 2006, LED video screens replaced the JumboTrons. The screens debuted November 22, 2006, when the Red Wings played the Vancouver Canucks. That same day, the arena's West Entrance was named the \"Gordie Howe Entrance\" in honor of the legendary Red Wing player, and a bronze statue of Howe was placed inside the entrance. Joe Louis Arena houses 86 premium suites. In 2008, the arena introduced the Comerica Bank Legend's Club, a 181-person private seating location in the arena's southeast corner.\n\nOn July 20, 2014, following the July 2013 approval of a $650 million project to build a new sports and entertainment district in Downtown Detroit, Christopher Ilitch unveiled designs for a new arena near Comerica Park and Ford Field which was completed in 2017 and succeeded Joe Louis Arena as the home of the Red Wings. On October 16, 2014, lawyers involved in the ongoing Detroit bankruptcy case disclosed in court that after demolition (which will be paid for by the city and state), the land on which the arena stands, along with an adjacent parking lot, will be transferred to the Financial Guaranty Insurance Company (FGIC), a bond insurer with a $1 billion claim against the city.\n\nThe Red Wings' final game at Joe Louis Arena was played on April 9, 2017 against the New Jersey Devils. The Red Wings won 4–1, the final goal in the arena's history coming from Red Wing Riley Sheahan. It was the second of two he scored, which were also the only goals he scored at all during the 2016–17 season.\nThe last ticketed event held at The Joe was a WWE Live Event, held on July 29, 2017. The arena will be demolished and replaced with new development at the site in 2019.\n\nIn 1995, the Detroit Junior Red Wings won the Ontario Hockey League's J. Ross Robertson Cup, defeating the Guelph Storm.\n\nJoe Louis Arena hosted college hockey events as part of College Hockey at The Joe, the Great Lakes Invitational, and the Big Ten Conference hockey tournament in 2015 and 2017.\n\nThe Detroit Pistons of the NBA used the arena for Game 5 of their 1984 playoff series against the New York Knicks when the Pontiac Silverdome was unavailable due to a scheduling conflict. In the game, Pistons star Isiah Thomas scored 16 points in the final 1:34 of regulation to send the game into overtime before the Pistons lost. The Pistons were forced to return to Joe Louis Arena for 15 games during the 1984–85 season, after the roof of the Silverdome collapsed during a snowstorm.\n\nThe National Hockey League's Detroit Red Wings hosted the Stanley Cup Finals at the arena six times (1995, 1997, 1998, 2002, 2008, and 2009), and won two of their Stanley Cup championships at Joe Louis Arena in 1997 and 2002. The 1998 Stanley Cup championship was won in Washington, D.C.'s MCI Center and the 2008 championship was won in Pittsburgh's Mellon Arena. The Red Wings lost in the Finals to New Jersey in 1995 at the Meadowlands Arena and lost on home ice in the 2009 Stanley Cup Finals to Pittsburgh.\n\nJoe Louis Arena was the site of the decisive Game 5 of the 2006 WNBA Finals between the Sacramento Monarchs and Detroit Shock on September 9, due to The Palace of Auburn Hills (the Shock's usual home arena) being used for a Mariah Carey concert on the same day. The Shock won the game 80–75 to clinch the championship.\n\nFormer Arena Football League team the Detroit Drive also had success during their time at the arena, playing in six consecutive ArenaBowls from 1988 to 1993 and winning four of them. Four of the games (ArenaBowl III, ArenaBowl IV, ArenaBowl V and ArenaBowl VII) were played in Joe Louis Arena.\n\nJoe Louis Arena was the site of the 2013 edition of the Skate America figure skating competition. In addition, Joe Louis Arena hosted the 1994 U.S. Figure Skating Championships, best known for the pre-competition attack on Nancy Kerrigan by associates of Tonya Harding.\n\nIt was announced on May 7, 2015, that the Horizon League Men's Basketball Tournament would be held in Detroit beginning in 2016 under a five-year deal; the 2016 and 2017 tournaments were held at Joe Louis Arena.\n\nJoe Louis Arena was also a concert venue. Until the Palace of Auburn Hills was built in 1988, Joe Louis Arena was Michigan's largest indoor arena for concerts. The first concert to take place there occurred on February 17, 1980, in which Max Webster opened for the Canadian rock group Rush To compensate for most of Joe Louis Arena's concert business being moved north following the opening of the Palace, the Red Wings began a tradition of playing a home game on New Year's Eve. Aside from lockouts cancelling part or all of the 1994–95, 2004–05, and 2012–13 seasons, the Red Wings left the New Year's Eve date open in years they were scheduled to participate in the NHL Winter Classic. For New Year's Eve 2012 and 2013, the Zac Brown Band held concerts at the Joe. The 2012 date was open due to the planned 2013 Winter Classic that was postponed by lockout until 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "18013118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18013118", "title": "John F. Kennedy Civic Arena", "text": "John F. Kennedy Civic Arena\n\nThe John F. Kennedy Civic Arena (also known as Kennedy Arena) is an indoor ice skating and ice hockey arena located in Rome, New York. The arena was home to the Copper City Chiefs of the North East Hockey League during the league's failed 2007–2008 season. The arena would have been home to the Eastern Professional Hockey League franchise, but the team folded before the season. Since 2010, it has been home to the Rome Frenzy of the Federal Hockey League.\n\nThe John F. Kennedy Civic Arena is one of the City of Rome’s most popular venues. It was originally constructed in 1963, opened in 1964, and renovated in 2008. The arena hosts numerous figure skating and ice hockey events, as well as learn-to-skate programs for youths. It is home to the Rome Free Academy varsity hockey team, which plays its home games at the 1,200-seat facility.\n\nThe arena is a regional facility, used primarily for ice hockey and figure skating from October through March. The primary users are the Ford Stanwix Hockey Association, a not-for-profit youth hockey organization; Rome Free Academy; Rome Catholic High School; a local figure skating club; various local groups and organizations, and the general public.\nThe arena is located at 500 W. Embargo Street in the City of Rome. It is co-located with the Municipal Pool.\n\nMunicipal Pool is a community facility, open from June through early September. It includes a standard-size recreational swimming pool, two water play slides, and a bathhouse with restrooms. It meets the recreational swimming needs of west Rome. \n\nThe arena and pool are served by a large parking lot off of Jay and Embargo Streets with space for more than 150 vehicles. A smaller lot on the arena's west side is used primarily by employees and hockey officials.\nThe Copper City Chiefs semi-professional hockey team was established in 1963 and folded at the end of the 1988 season. The team played in the Kennedy Arena when it opened in 1964. During the 1960s they played in a league of cities in the state of New York. In the 1970s they played in a league of teams from New England states and New York. In the 1980s, the team played against Senior A, Senior B, and Intermediate Level teams from Ontario, Canada.\n\nThe Rome Copper City Chiefs were organized in 1963 under their original name of the Rome Knights, an unchartered recreational organization which was begun to provide athletic recreation in the form of ice hockey to adults who had played minor professional or college ice hockey. \n\nFor six years, until 1971, the Knights played ice hockey by invitation; that is, inviting teams from the surrounding area to Rome's John F. Kennedy Arena. The Knights were not part of any formal league at this time, nor were they affiliated with a National Hockey League (NHL) or professional hockey team. However, during their existence many of their rostered players had some minor professional experience. The Knights engaged in strictly invitational hockey games, usually paying expenses of the opposing team so they would play in Rome. This was gradually expanded over the years to include teams from as far away as Massachusetts, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and the Canadian province of Ontario. \n\nIn the middle 1960s, interest in the Knights ice hockey team increased, primarily as an overflow from the Clinton Comets of the Eastern Hockey League, a professional farm team for the New York Rangers of the NHL. The presence of former Clinton Comets, along with the Knights' physical style of play, stimulated the general population's interest in attending Rome Knights hockey games. \n\nIn 1971 the Rome Knights changed their name to the Copper City Chiefs. Rome is referred to as the Copper City, after the Revere Manufacturing Plant that once produced copperware in the city through the 1970s. \n\nThe Rome Copper City Chiefs continued to play invitational games and increased their following in and around central New York. In 1971 the Clinton Comets folded. This brought more professional players to the Chiefs and added to the increased attendance at their games. A new general manager took control of the team and instituted a publicity campaign to further increase game attendance and provide further incentives for local business sponsorship.\n\nDuring the 1972–1973 season, the Chiefs' general manager met with managers of opposing teams, and they decided to form the Northeastern United States Hockey League. This was composed of teams from upstate New York, parts of Massachusetts, and northern New Jersey. League play, coupled with increased advertising and publicity, helped increase attendance, but also required the Chiefs to play in more away games. As added incentive for fans to attend their games, schedules of play were arranged for the 1973-1974 season to give maximum home play to teams that had a traditional adversary relationship. The league was successful and attendance between 1973 and 1975 increased to an overall average of 900 per game. End-of-season league play-offs were standing room only. But involvement in the league, which was never formalized enough to support and enforce the schedules (i.e., no penalty for missed games, forfeitures), also created additional expenses for all the teams. The league folded as teams withdrew due to financial hardships.\n\nDuring their 25 years of existence, supporter participation fluctuated, peaking during 1973-1975. Those seasons showed average game attendances of approximately 900. After the 1975 season, participation gradually declined, culminating in the 1984-1985 season's average attendance of 250.\n\nAfter an almost $3.5 million renovation, Kennedy Arena was officially dedicated on January 30, 2009.\n\nThe renovation raised the seating capacity from 800 to 1,200. Other improvements included a longer ice rink; new boards, glass, and safety net; new bleachers across the back end of the arena; four new locker rooms; upgrades to locker rooms; and an enhanced heating and lighting system. Improvements were also made to the warming room and concession area, to allow for more and better off-season use of the facility, including usage by teens and seniors. \n\nThe shell of the building remains relatively unchanged from its original construction in 1963.\n\n"}
{"id": "36158538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36158538", "title": "Kaiser Permanente Arena", "text": "Kaiser Permanente Arena\n\nKaiser Permanente Arena is an indoor arena located in Santa Cruz, in the U.S. state of California. It has a seating capacity of 2,505 spectators. It hosts the Santa Cruz Warriors of the NBA G League. It also is the home of the Santa Cruz Derby Girls of the Women's Flat Track Derby Association. The naming rights were bought by health care consortium Kaiser Permanente despite the company—a sponsor of the Warriors' owner, the NBA's Golden State Warriors—not having facilities in Santa Cruz at the time. KP has since opened medical facilities in Santa Cruz, Scotts Valley and Watsonville.\n\nA $3.5 million loan by the city of Santa Cruz was given to the Warriors to build their arena, with the 1.5-acre lot being provided by the Santa Cruz Seaside Company, owner of the Santa Cruz Beach Boardwalk. Construction ran for 78 days between September and December 2012, halted just a few times by rain. The arena was opened on December 23, 2012, with a victory by the Warriors against the Bakersfield Jam. \n\nBy April 2014, Kaiser Permanente Arena had 39 sell-outs out of the 53 Warriors home games. In the meantime, the Warriors reached two D-League finals. The arena has a seating capacity of 2,505.\n\nThe United States men's national basketball team hosted their FIBA World Cup qualifying first-round games at Kaiser Permanente Arena on February 23, 2018 against Cuba and on February 26, 2018 against Puerto Rico.\n\nThe arena also serves as the home of UC Santa Cruz men's and women's basketball games. In November 2017, UC Santa Cruz hosted a Thanksgiving basketball tournament at Kaiser Permanente Arena.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55260473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55260473", "title": "Kenneth M. Robbins Stadium", "text": "Kenneth M. Robbins Stadium\n\nKenneth M. Robbins Stadium (formerly Lancer Stadium) is an outdoor multi-purpose stadium in Loyalsock Township, Pennsylvania near Williamsport in North Central Pennsylvania.\n\nThe stadium currently is home to the Loyalsock Lancers football, boys and girls soccer teams. The stadium is owned and operated by the Loyalsock Township School District.\n\nFormerly called Lancer Stadium was opened in 1971. And has been remodeled multiple times in its history. Including new bleachers added in late 1990s, terf added in 2011. The turf was donated after the sports dome in Muncy, Pennsylvania collapsed after large amounts of snow on the roof caused the collapse. Originally designed as indoor turf it was transplanted at Kenneth M. Robbins Stadium.\n\nIn 2017, school board and township members announced plans on replacing the turf in 2018. On December 23, 2017 officials announced the new terf work will begin in March 2018 and be complete by August 1, 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33898687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33898687", "title": "Lobodome", "text": "Lobodome\n\nThe Lobodome (officially Lobodome de la UAD a Mazatlan) is a 3,000-seat indoor arena located in Mazatlan, Sinaloa, Mexico.\n\nIt is used primarily for basketball, and is home to the Lobos de Universidad Autónoma de Durango-Mazatlan basketball team. It is also used for concerts, boxing and lucha libre. It was one of the original buildings of the UAD's Mazatlan campus which was established in 1999. One of the first events at the arena was a concert by Lorena Herrera, a Mazatlan native. Until the Mazatlan International Center was built, it was the largest indoor venue in the city. \nConcert capacity of the Lobodome is around 4,000. Despite its name, the arena's roof is arch-shaped. \n\nThe Lobodome was the site of an exhibition basketball game featuring NBA stars on October 8, 2011, during the NBA Lockout. In addition to the aforementioned, other national and international stars, including Thalía, Gloria Trevi, Paulina Rubio, Los Tigres del Norte, Rocio Durcal, Maribel Guardia, Vicente Fernandez, Pepe Aguilar, Jenni Rivera, and even Air Supply have performed here.\n\n"}
{"id": "9128344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9128344", "title": "Macau at the 2007 Asian Winter Games", "text": "Macau at the 2007 Asian Winter Games\n\nMacau, under the name of 'Macau, China', participated in the 2007 Asian Winter Games held in Changchun, China from January 28, 2007 to February 4, 2007.\n"}
{"id": "28649660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28649660", "title": "Meadow Road, Beeston", "text": "Meadow Road, Beeston\n\nMeadow Road was a cricket ground in Beeston, Nottinghamshire. The first recorded match on the ground was in 1867, when the Gentlemen of Nottinghamshire played the Gentlemen of Lincolnshire. In 1870, the ground hosted its only first-class match when the Gentlemen of the North played the Gentlemen of the South. The last recorded match on the ground came in 1961 when Nottinghamshire Juniors played Derbyshire Juniors.\n\nThe ground is today covered by a technology park.\n\n"}
{"id": "47725418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47725418", "title": "Metallurgical &amp; Engineering Consultant Ltd Sail Stadium", "text": "Metallurgical &amp; Engineering Consultant Ltd Sail Stadium\n\nMetallurgical & Engineering Consultant Ltd Sail Stadium or MECON Sail Stadium is a multi purpose stadium in Ranchi, Jharkhand. The ground is mainly used for organizing matches of football, cricket and other sports. The stadium has hosted 18 first-class matches in 1984 when Bihar cricket team played against Orissa cricket team. The ground hosted 17 more first-class matches from 1986 to 2009. The stadium also hosted a List A matches when Bihar cricket team played against Bengal cricket team but since then the stadium has hosted non-first-class matches.\n\nThe stadium is owned and operated by MECON.\n\n"}
{"id": "6230309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6230309", "title": "Mouloudia Oujda", "text": "Mouloudia Oujda\n\nMouloudia Club of Oujda () is a Moroccan football club based in Oujda. Mouloudia, which closely translates to \"birth\" in Arabic, was named after the coincidence of the day of its creation: on March 16, 1946 (12 second spring of 1365 Hjeria) with the anniversary of the birth of Muhammad.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45184607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45184607", "title": "NE Patras", "text": "NE Patras\n\nNE Patras (NEP), Nautical Union of Patras (Ναυταθλητική Ένωση Πατρών), is a water polo and swimming club situated in Patras, Greece.\n\nNEP was founded in 2006 in Patras, Western Greece with the unification of two nautical clubs of the city: Thriamvos Patras (founded in 1976) and Poseidon Patras (founded in 1982).\n\nThe club is today participating in the Second Division/A2 Ethniki of the Greek Championships of men and women. NEP has participated in the First Division (A1 Ethniki) and the A1 Ethniki Women's, reaching in both department the League's fourth place. In 2010, NEP Women's team reached the Women's LEN Trophy final four, ending up in the 3rd place.\n\n"}
{"id": "50798214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50798214", "title": "Namibia at the 1992 Summer Paralympics", "text": "Namibia at the 1992 Summer Paralympics\n\nNamibia competed at the 1992 Summer Paralympics in Barcelona, Spain. 2 competitors from Namibia won no medals and so did not place in the medal table.\n\n"}
{"id": "3245074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3245074", "title": "Peru at the 1976 Summer Olympics", "text": "Peru at the 1976 Summer Olympics\n\nPeru competed at the 1976 Summer Olympics in Montreal, Canada.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8874903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8874903", "title": "RK Bjelovar", "text": "RK Bjelovar\n\nRK Bjelovar (Rukometni Klub Bjelovar) is a team handball club from Bjelovar, Croatia formed in 1955. The club currently competes in the Croatian Second League of Handball (North) and the Croatian Handball Cup.\n\nDuring Communist Yugoslavia, the club was known as Partizan, named after the Second World War's Yugoslav Partisans. After Croatian independence in 1991, the current name was adopted. Despite being the most successful club in Yugoslavia, it has had little success since the 1980 season and has been thoroughly eclipsed by RK Zagreb in modern Croatian handball.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51808929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51808929", "title": "Rick Yves Confiance", "text": "Rick Yves Confiance\n\nRick Yves Confiance (born May 24, 1994) is a Seychellois weightlifter. He placed 13th in the men's 62 kg event at the 2016 Summer Olympics.\n"}
{"id": "40056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40056", "title": "Ski jumping", "text": "Ski jumping\n\nSki jumping is a winter sport in which competitors aim to achieve the longest jump after descending from a specially designed ramp on their skis. Along with jump length, competitor's style and other factors affect the final score. Ski jumping was first contested in Norway in the late 19th century, and later spread through Europe and North America in the early 20th century. Along with cross-country skiing, it constitutes the traditional group of Nordic skiing disciplines.\n\nThe ski jumping venue, commonly referred to as a \"hill\", consists of the jumping ramp (\"in-run\"), take-off table, and a landing hill. Each jump is evaluated according to the distance traveled and the style performed. The distance score is related to the construction point (also known as the \"K-point\"), which is a line drawn in the landing area and serves as a \"target\" for the competitors to reach. The score of each judge evaluating the style can reach a maximum of 20 points. The jumping technique has evolved over the years, from jumps with the parallel skis with both arms pointing forwards, to the \"V-style\", which is widely used today.\n\nSki jumping has been included at the Winter Olympics since 1924 and at the FIS Nordic World Ski Championships since 1925. Women's participation in the sport began in the 1990s, while the first women's event at the Olympics has been held in 2014. All major ski jumping competitions are organised by the International Ski Federation. Stefan Kraft holds the official record for the world's longest ski jump with , set on the ski flying hill in Vikersund in 2017. Ski jumping can also be performed in the summer on an in-run where the tracks are made from porcelain and the grass on the slope is covered with water-soaked plastic. The highest level summer competition is the FIS Ski Jumping Grand Prix, contested since 1994.\n\nLike most of the Nordic skiing disciplines, the first ski jumping competitions were held in Norway in the 19th century, although there is evidence of ski jumping in the late 18th century. The recorded origins of the first ski jump trace back to 1808, when Olaf Rye reached . Sondre Norheim, who is regarded as the \"father\" of the modern ski jumping, won the first-ever ski jumping competition with prizes, which was held in Høydalsmo in 1866.\n\nThe first larger ski jumping competition was held on Husebyrennet hill in Oslo, Norway, in 1875. Due to its poor infrastructure and the weather conditions, in 1892 the event was moved to Holmenkollen, which is today still one of the main ski jumping events in the season.\n\nIn the late 19th century, Sondre Norheim and Nordic skier Karl Hovelsen immigrated to the United States and started developing the sport in that country. In 1924, ski jumping was featured at the 1924 Winter Olympics in Chamonix, France. The sport has been featured at the every Olympics since.\n\nSki jumping was brought to Canada by Norwegian immigrant Nels Nelsen. Starting with his example in 1915 until the late 1960s, annual ski jumping competitions were held on Mount Revelstoke — the ski hill Nelsen designed — the longest period of any Canadian ski jumping venue. Revelstoke's was the biggest natural ski jump hill in Canada and internationally recognized as one of the best in North America. The length and natural grade of its hill made possible jumps of over —the longest in Canada. It was also the only hill in Canada where world ski jumping records were set, in 1916, 1921, 1925, 1932, and 1933.\n\nIn 1935, the origins of the ski flying began in Planica, Slovenia, where Josef Bradl became the first competitor in history to jump over . At the same venue, the first official jump over was achieved in 1994, when Toni Nieminen landed at 203 metres.\n\nIn 1964 in Zakopane, Poland, the large hill event was introduced at the FIS Nordic World Ski Championships. In the same year, the normal hill event was included on the Olympic programme at the 1964 Winter Olympics. The team event was added later, at the 1988 Winter Olympics.\n\nA ski jumping hill is located on a steep slope, and it consists of the jumping ramp (\"in-run\"), take-off table, and a landing hill. Competitors glide down from a common point at the top of the in-run, achieving considerable speeds at the take-off table, where they take off with help of speed and their own leap. While airborne, they maintain an aerodynamic position with their bodies and skis, that would allow them to maximize the length of the jump. The landing slope is constructed so that the jumper's trajectory is near-parallel with it, and the athlete's relative height to the ground is gradually lost, allowing for a gentle and safe landing. The landing space is followed by an \"out-run\", a substantial flat or counter-inclined area that permits the skier to safely slow down. The out-run area is fenced and surrounded by a public auditorium.\n\nThe slopes are classified according to the distance that the competitors travel in the air, between the end of the table and the landing. Each hill has a construction point (\"K-point\"), which serves as a \"target\" that the competitors should reach. The classification of the hills are as follows:\n\nCompetitors are ranked according to a numerical score obtained by adding up components based on distance, style, inrun length (gate factor) and wind conditions. In the individual event, the scores from each skier's two competition jumps are combined to determine the winner. \n\nDistance score depends on the hill's K-point. For K-90 and K-120 competitions, the K-point is set at 90 metres and 120 metres, respectively. Competitors are awarded 60 points (normal and large hills) and 120 points (flying hills) if they land on the K-point. For every metre beyond the K-point, the competitor is awarded extra points; the typical value is 2 points per metre in small hills, 1.8 points in large hills and 1.2 points in ski flying hills. A competitor's distance is measured between the takeoff and the point where the feet came in full contact with the landing slope (for abnormal landings, touchpoint of one foot, or another body part is considered). Jumps are measured with accuracy of 0.5 metres for all competitions. \n\nDuring the competition, five judges are based in a tower to the side of the expected landing point. They can award up to 20 points each for jumping style, based on keeping the skis steady during flight, balance, optimal body position, and landing. The highest and lowest style scores are disregarded, with the remaining three scores added to the distance score.\n\nGate and wind factors were introduced by the 2009 rules, to allow fairer comparison of results for a scoring compensation for variable outdoor conditions. Aerodynamics and take-off speed are important variables that affect the jump length, and if weather conditions change during a competition, the conditions will not be the same for all competitors. Gate factor is an adjustment made when the inrun (or start gate) length is adjusted from the initial position in order to provide optimal take-off speed. Since higher gates result in higher take-off speeds, and therefore present an advantage to competitors, points are subtracted when the starting gate is moved up, and added when the gate is lowered. An advanced calculation also determines compensation points for the actual unequal wind conditions at the time of the jump. These points are added or withdrawn from the original scores of the individual jump according to the wind conditions; when there is back wind, the points are added, and when there is front wind, the points are subtracted. Wind speed and direction are measured at five different points based on average value, which is determined before every competition.\n\nIf two or more competitors finish the competition with the same number of points, they are given the same placing and receive same prizes.\nSki jumpers below the minimum safe body mass index are penalized with a shorter maximum ski length, reducing the aerodynamic lift they can achieve. These rules have been credited with stopping the most severe cases of underweight athletes, but some competitors still lose weight to maximize the distance they can achieve. In order to prevent an unfair advantage due to a \"sailing\" effect of the ski jumping suit, material, thickness and relative size of the suit are regulated.\n\nEach jump is divided into four parts: in-run, take-off (jump), flight, and landing.\n\nBy using the V-style, firstly pioneered by Swedish ski jumper Jan Boklöv in the mid-1980s, modern skiers are able to exceed the distance of the take-off hill by about 10% compared to the previous technique with parallel skis. Previous techniques included the Kongsberger technique, the Däescher technique and the Windisch technique. Until the mid-1960s, the ski jumper came down the in-run of the hill with both arms pointing forwards. This changed when the Däscher technique was pioneered by Andreas Däscher in the 1950s, as a modification of the Kongsberger and Windisch techniques. A lesser-used technique as of 2017 is the H-style which is essentially a combination of the parallel and V-styles, in which the skis are spread very wide apart and held parallel in an \"H\" shape. It is prominently used by Domen Prevc.\n\nSkiers are required to touch the ground in the Telemark landing style (), named after the Norwegian county of Telemark. This involves the landing with one foot in front of the other with knees slightly bent, mimicking the style of Telemark skiing. Failure to execute a Telemark landing leads to the deduction of style points, issued by the judges.\n\nAll major ski jumping competitions are organized by the International Ski Federation.\n\nThe large hill ski jumping event was included at the Winter Olympic Games for the first time in 1924, and has been contested at every Winter Olympics since then. The normal hill event was added in 1964. Since 1992, the normal hill event is contested at the K-90 size hill; previously, it was contested at the K-60 hill. Women's debuted at the Winter Olympics in 2014.\n\nThe FIS Ski Jumping World Cup has been contested since the 1979–80 season. It runs between November and March every season, and consists of 25–30 competitions at most prestigious hills across Europe, United States and Japan. Competitors are awarded a fixed number of points in each event according to their ranking, and the overall winner is the one with most accumulated points. FIS Ski Flying World Cup is contested as a sub-event of the World Cup, and competitors collect only the points scored at ski flying hills from the calendar.\nThe ski jumping at the FIS Nordic World Ski Championships was first contested in 1925. The team event was introduced in 1982, while the women's event was first held in 2009.\n\nThe FIS Ski Flying World Championships was first contested in 1972 in Planica.\n\nThe Four Hills Tournament has been contested since the 1952–53 season.<ref>\n"}
{"id": "43032479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43032479", "title": "Somebody Up There Likes Me (1996 film)", "text": "Somebody Up There Likes Me (1996 film)\n\nSomebody Up There Likes Me is a 1996 Hong Kong action romance film directed by Patrick Leung and starring Aaron Kwok, Carmen Lee and Sammo Hung.\n\nWith encouragement from his girlfriend, Gloria (Carmen Lee), Ken Wong (Aaron Kwok), a rebellious and stubborn youth, decides to focus on the sport of boxing. During a match, Ken accidentally kills Gloria's older brother, Rocky (Michael Tong), and the two break up. Ken is unwilling to give up his boxing career and seeks tuition from boxing master, Black Jack Hung (Sammo Hung). He also manages to reconcile with Gloria, who supports Ken returning to the ring to complete her brother's wish to challenge Yamada Motokazu (Sawada Kenya), the boxing champion of Asia. Due to constantly suffering blows to his head, Ken's is physically traumatized and once able to defeat Yamada, he also collapses.\n\n\nThe film grossed HK$11,611,563 at the Hong Kong box office during its theatrical run from 12 January to 14 February 1996 in Hong Kong.\n\n"}
{"id": "9227000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9227000", "title": "Speedway Grand Prix of Latvia", "text": "Speedway Grand Prix of Latvia\n\nThe Speedway Grand Prix of Latvia is a speedway event that is a part of the Speedway Grand Prix Series.\n\n Greg Hancock 3 times\n\n"}
{"id": "12980766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12980766", "title": "Sports Illustrated cover jinx", "text": "Sports Illustrated cover jinx\n\nThe \"Sports Illustrated\" so-called cover jinx is an urban legend that states that individuals or teams who appear on the cover of the \"Sports Illustrated\" magazine will subsequently be jinxed (experience bad luck).\n\nA common explanation for the perceived effect is that athletes are generally featured on the cover after an exceptionally good performance, which might be an outlier compared to their usual level of performance. Therefore, their future performance is likely to display regression toward the mean and be less impressive by comparison. This decline in performance would then be misperceived as being related to, or even possibly caused by, the appearance on the magazine cover.\n\nMost athletes that seemed to suffer the jinx most typically suffered because of an injury to their body, or some other bad luck following their appearance. One prime candidate for this explanation is Eddie Mathews who suffered a broken hand while the team's nine game winning streak came to a close following the cover. In this case, the odds are that a player will suffer an injury while playing any given sport with injuries a given in a physical contact sport such American football or baseball which is what Mathews played. Even injuries in individual sports such as skiing can fall under this explanation as it is common to make a bad move in this sport and get caught up in a massive mistake of the athlete's own doing which results in injury. Finally, winning and losing streaks come to a close in all sports and this includes Milwaukee's nine-game winning streak in 1954. This makes the 1972 Miami Dolphins perfect season, 2007 New England Patriots perfect regular season, and the 2008 Detroit Lions winless season all the more remarkable.\n\n\"SI\" addressed its own opinions on the alleged cover jinx in a 2002 issue that featured a black cat on its cover.\n\nWhile the list of \"examples\" of the so-called jinx may be extensive, records contradict the existence of a curse.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24251558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24251558", "title": "Sports magazine", "text": "Sports magazine\n\nA sports magazine is usually a weekly, monthly, biweekly magazine featuring articles or segments on sports. Some may be published a specific number of times per year.\n\nMajor sports magazines in print include: \n\n"}
{"id": "6683100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6683100", "title": "Stade Municipal (Sokodé)", "text": "Stade Municipal (Sokodé)\n\nStade Municipal is a multi-use stadium in Sokodé, Togo. It is currently used mostly for football matches and is the home stadium of AC Semassi F.C. and Tchaoudjo Athlétic Club. The stadium holds 10,000 people.\n"}
{"id": "4578998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4578998", "title": "Stutter step", "text": "Stutter step\n\nA stutter step is a footwork technique in tennis and other sports.\n\nThe term has fallen out of usage in the modern game, but the technique is still used. The stutter step is basically running forward with small steps while squatting, having the back perpendicular to the ground, and having the racquet up in front. It is a technique used to approach the net after a strong approach shot in preparation for a volley. It allows the player to be in a stable ready position while moving forward and creating a higher percentage volley.\n\nAlthough the term is mainly used in tennis, it has also become a modern term that is used commonly meaning to \"unsurely make a decision or perform a job or activity\". For example, you could 'stutter step\" in a decision, or take slow, unsure steps and be cautious towards it instead of to just make up your mind and go for it.\n\nIn basketball, the stutter step is a common warm-up drill where you shuffle and scuff your feet in a quick moving motion across a length of flooring. This warm-up is supposed to keep the players alert and help them prepare to defend players in a real game, since the stutter step is a littler version of shuffling.\n\nIn track and field, a stutter step is usually related to an event where foot placement needs to be precise: shortened adjustment steps leading up to a hurdle, or on a runway event where the final step initiates the jump, vault or throw.\n\nRTS games have players issuing orders to units on a game field. Some units are unable to attack while moving. Stutter stepping is when units are ordered to move the moment their attack animation begins, allowing them to follow or flee from enemy units while attacking.\n"}
{"id": "5706972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5706972", "title": "Tent boxing", "text": "Tent boxing\n\nTent boxing is an amusement seen at agricultural shows throughout Australia. Born in England, now banned in the United States, the outback is today the only place such an attraction can survive.\n\nStarting in the late 19th Century boxing troupes of professional fighters would travel the mining towns and outback of the country, following fairs and carnivals, putting up big top tents and taking on all-comers for cash in the ring.\n\nAmong the more famous of tent boxing troupes, are the ones created by Roy Bell and Jimmy Sharman.\n\nFred Brophy, who owns the Cracow Hotel in Cracow, Queensland, is believed to be one of the world's last boxing tent showmen.\n\nBrophy continues to travel with his troupe across Queensland each year.\n\nFor his years of touring with his tent boxing show, Brophy was awarded the Medal of the Order of Australia in 2011 for his role in raising money for charity and for services to the entertainment industry.\n\nLargely unreported on, little is known about early tent boxers and events due to participants and spectators being largely illiterate. In more modern times, very few photographs exist of the movement as organisers disapprove of media involvement.\n\nFred Brophy insists he will continue travelling with his tent boxing troupe, until he dies, even though the sport was banned in New South Wales, Victoria, West Australia and South Australia in 1971 by the government, due to health concerns.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55295008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55295008", "title": "The Field House (University of Toledo)", "text": "The Field House (University of Toledo)\n\nThe Field House is a former athletic facility on the campus of the University of Toledo in Toledo, Ohio, United States, that was closed in 1976 and remodeled in 2008.\n\nMade from Wisconsin Lannon stone, construction of the building took place between March, 1930 and January, 1931 on land owned by the university. The cost of construction was approximately $470,000. The Field House was the second building constructed on the present UT campus. The facility covered more than an acre of ground, utilized a dirt floor and seated only 2,000 spectators around an elevated wooden basketball court. The building also contained two gymnasiums devoted to men's and women's physical education classes.\n\nThe primary use for the gymnasium was a location that could be utilized for men's and women's physical education courses as well as being the facility for the Toledo Rockets men's basketball team to compete. Additionally, the venue was utilized for social and academic functions including commencement ceremonies. The Field House provided a great venue and gathering place for all to come and enjoy the speeches or performances being held. Although its main use was a gymnasium for basketball it held some very iconic speakers and bands. Some famous people that spoke in the Field House included politicians Barry M. Goldwater as well as President Richard Nixon. Additionally, some famous bands and singers performed in the Field House including Pink Floyd, Jimmy Hendrix, Kenny Rogers, The J. Geils Band, The Kingston Trio, Hall and Oates, The Beach Boys, Simon and Garfunkel and also The Byrds.\n\nUpon completion of Centennial Hall in 1976, The Field House became obsolete and became underutilized becoming a storage facility for the campus for nearly 20 years. In 2006, however, facing a burst in student enrollment, an expansion of program offerings, and concern about future space needs, the university commissioned a major overhaul that, three years later, recast the 134,200 square foot gymnasium into a learning environment housing classrooms, teaching labs, faculty offices, and space for future growth. Construction began in July, 2007, with the demolition of the old interior and extensive cleanup effort on the exterior brickwork commencing in December. In a span of only 10 months, and the addition of a second and third floor, the result was a $27 million renovation, with 54 classrooms, 70 offices, and a 250-seat auditorium usable interior\n"}
{"id": "15238870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15238870", "title": "Three Rock Rovers Hockey Club", "text": "Three Rock Rovers Hockey Club\n\nThree Rock Rovers Hockey Club is a field hockey club based in Grange Road, Rathfarnham, Dublin. They are affiliated to the Leinster Branch of the Irish Hockey Association. The club currently fields six men's teams and five women's teams in the Leinster Hockey leagues. The Club was Ireland's entrant into the 2008 Euro Hockey League getting to the final 16 of the tournament.\n\nOn Sunday 23 February 2014 in the final of the Irish Senior Cup, Three Rock Rovers beat Pembroke Wanderers on penalty strokes to win the ISC for the first time in 40 years.\n\nOn May 22/25, the club will host the EHF EuroHockey Club Champions Men's Trophy for the first time. The 1st XI squad will compete against teams from Azerbaijan, Belarus, Italy, Wales, Scotland, the Czech Republic, and Ukraine.\n\nThe 2015/16 season will see the introduction of the new Irish Hockey League. The Men's 1st XI squad will compete in the inaugural event, made up of the top 10 teams from Munster, Ulster, and Leinster.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "636484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=636484", "title": "Triangle offense", "text": "Triangle offense\n\nThe triangle offense is an offensive strategy used in basketball. Its basic ideas were initially established by Hall of Fame coach Sam Barry at the University of Southern California. His system was further developed by former Houston Rockets and Kansas State University basketball head coach Tex Winter, who played for Barry in the late 1940s. Winter later served as assistant coach for the Chicago Bulls in the 1980s and 1990s and for the Los Angeles Lakers in the 2000s, mostly under head coach Phil Jackson.\n\nThe system's most important feature is the sideline triangle created by the center, who stands at the low post, the forward at the wing, and the guard at the corner. The team's other guard stands at the top of the key and the weak-side forward is on the weak-side high post—together forming the \"two-man game\". The goal of the offense is to fill those five spots, which creates good spacing between players and allows each one to pass to four teammates. Every pass and cut has a purpose and everything is dictated by the defense. \n\nIt has been shown that the triangle offense is the most optimal way for five players to space the floor on the basketball court. \n\nThe offense starts when a guard passes to the wing and cuts to the strong-side corner. The triangle is created from a post player on the strong-side block, the strong-side corner, and the extended strong-side wing, who gains possession on the first pass. The desired initial option in the offense is to pass to the strong-side post player on the block who is in good scoring position. From there the player has the options of looking to score or pass to one of the perimeter players who are exchanging from strong-side corner and wing, a dive cut down the lane, or the opposite wing flashing to the top of the key which initiates another common option known as the \"pinch post\".\n\nIf a pass to the block is not possible, the second option is either to pass to the weak-side guard who flashes top of the key from the weak-side wing position or passing to the strong-side corner. If the ball is passed to the corner the options are either shoot, pass to the strong-side block, or pick and pop with the wing. If it is passed to the weak-side guard it initiates the \"pinch post\" option. There are two options. The first and most common is to pass to the weak-side forward who flashes to the elbow (corner of the key at the free throw line) to receive the pass. When he does the options are a rub handoff, back door cut by guard without the ball, post up of the guard on a smaller player, or face up and attack. The second option is a pick and roll with the forward. The advantage to the first option is there are so many weapons to attack the defense it opens up a lot of freedom and ability to score effectively. The advantage on the second option is that the player who has the ball and uses the screen now has the entire side of the floor to work with to go one on one. Meanwhile, on the other side, the wing sets a screen for the corner guard on the triangle split. If the hand-off is not available, the forward or the guard can pass to the corner guard coming off the screen. If the defense overplays or expects the split, both the wing and the corner guard can back cut to the basket. During all of this time the original strong-side block player is able to establish position for an easy shot while the defender is lured by all of the movement and cutting by the other players.\n\nIf the strong-side wing-to-guard pass is not possible, the third option is for the weak-side forward to flash to the strong-side elbow, take the pass, and cut to the basket on the trademark backdoor play of the offense. Meanwhile, the wing and corner guard exchange on a down screen. The forward with the ball can pass to the cutting guard or to the corner guard coming off the wing's screen. If nothing's available, he can shoot the basketball himself.\n\nThe offense also has a variety of options if there's heavy pressure from the defense. If the initial wing-pass by the guard isn't available, the triangle can be created on the other side by passing to the other guard, who then passes to the weak-side forward (who then becomes the strong-side wing). The guard, who initially had the ball, then cuts to the other corner. The center or the pressured wing can flash to the opposite post. If the guard-to-guard pass is not available, the weak-side forward can make a similar flash cut that was mentioned earlier. That also creates many cutting opportunities. If there is heavy pressure on everybody, the center can release the pressure by cutting to the high post for a pass by the ball-handling guard. That would also create space for possible cuts.\n\nHead coach Phil Jackson, with help from assistant coach Tex Winter, won 11 NBA Finals with the triangle offense. Jackson coached the Bulls from 1989–1998. He next served as the head coach of the Lakers twice, first from 1999–2004, and then from 2005–2011. The Chicago Bulls under Jackson won six championships in the 1990s playing in the triangle. His first three title-winning teams in Chicago featured superstars Michael Jordan and Scottie Pippen. Jackson's later three titles with the Bulls came with Jordan, Pippen, and fellow superstar Dennis Rodman. Jackson's Los Angeles Lakers won five championships employing the triangle. His first three Lakers championship squads fielded superstars Shaquille O'Neal and Kobe Bryant, while his last two title teams saw him pair Bryant with fellow All-Star Pau Gasol.\n\nWhen Jackson became the head coach of the Chicago Bulls before the start of the 1989–1990 NBA season, he and Winter originally installed the triangle offense in an attempt to subvert the Jordan Rules strategy employed by their Eastern Conference rivals, the Detroit Pistons. The \"Jordan Rules\" was a defensive strategy which consisted of solely targeting Michael Jordan. Jordan had already established himself as an elite NBA superstar by single-handedly turning Chicago into a playoff contender. However, by sharing responsibility rather than shouldering it, he continued to blossom as a great all-around basketball player. More importantly, the Bulls also improved notably as a team, finishing with a 55–27 record. The Bulls fell to the Pistons in 7 games in the 1990 Eastern Conference Finals. The following year, however, Chicago finished the 1990–1991 NBA season with a then-franchise best 61–21 record, good for first place in the East, then swept the archrival Pistons 4–0 in the 1991 Eastern Conference Finals. The Bulls then defeated the Los Angeles Lakers in the NBA Finals, four games to one. Michael Jordan won his second NBA Most Valuable Player Award that season and won his first championship.\n\nThe triangle offense was used very effectively by the Bulls during the 1995–96 season. Jordan, back at the helm for the team in his first full season since coming out of retirement, won his fourth NBA MVP award. He also finished the season as the league's leading scorer for the 8th time. The Bulls recorded a then NBA-record 72–10 season en route to what was then their fourth NBA championship. Jackson won his first (and only) NBA Coach of the Year Award for his efforts during his team's record-breaking season. Overall, the Bulls won six NBA titles during the 1990s, and the team is considered to be the NBA's greatest dynasties.\n\nJackson installed the triangle offense again when he started coaching the Lakers in the 1999–2000 season, with Winter once again serving as an assistant on his staff. This time, Shaquille O'Neal and Kobe Bryant served as the focal points of the team's offense. O'Neal won the NBA MVP Award in 2000, and Bryant rose to prominence as one of the NBA's newest stars. The Lakers became an elite NBA team during Jackson's first term as their coach, making four NBA Finals appearances in five years and winning three straight championships from 2000–2002. At the end of the 2004 Finals, which resulted in losing to the Detroit Pistons, his contract was not renewed. Jackson returned to the Lakers as head coach starting in the 2005–2006 season. Despite the presence of Bryant as the centerpiece of the team, the Lakers could not get past the first round of the playoffs in 2006 or 2007. However, the team acquired versatile forward Pau Gasol from the Memphis Grizzlies during the 2008 season. With Bryant and Gasol running the triangle offense, the Lakers made the NBA Finals three straight times and won in 2009 and 2010. In the process, Jackson surpassed Red Auerbach's record of most titles won by an NBA coach.\n\nWhen Phil Jackson retired as a head coach at the end of the 2010–2011 season, he finished his career with over 1000 victories over the course of his coaching career, regular season and playoff games combined. Jackson, Jordan, Pippen, Rodman, and O'Neal are all Hall of Famers. Tex Winter earned induction into the Hall of Fame in 2011 for his contributions to basketball involving the triangle offense. He was an assistant for both the Bulls and Lakers on the first nine of Jackson's 11 championship teams, and served as a consultant to the Lakers on the final two.\n\n"}
{"id": "7739073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7739073", "title": "Western Australian Institute of Sport", "text": "Western Australian Institute of Sport\n\nThe Western Australian Institute of Sport (WAIS) is an elite sports institute set up in 1983 by the Government of Western Australia to support athletes in Western Australia. Previously, if elite athletes from Western Australian needed to train or receive coaching at an international level they had to move to one of the Australian Institute of Sport (AIS) campuses which were generally based in the eastern states. The founding director was Wally Foreman who held the position for 17 years until 2001.\n\nThe institute is based at the WAIS High Performance Service Centre (next door to HBF Stadium) and has sport programs including athletics, baseball, canoeing, cycling, gymnastics, men and women's hockey, netball, rowing, sailing, softball, swimming and men and women's water polo.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27603457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27603457", "title": "Štadión FK Senica", "text": "Štadión FK Senica\n\nOMS Arena, is a multi-purpose stadium in Senica, Slovakia. It is mainly used mostly for football matches and hosts the home matches of FK Senica of the Slovak Superliga. The stadium has a capacity of 5,070 spectators. The intensity of the floodlighting is 1,545 lux.\n\n"}
