{"id": "50256860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50256860", "title": "Aladağlar National Park", "text": "Aladağlar National Park\n\nAladağlar National Park ()), established on April 21, 1995, is a national park in southern Turkey. The national park, a mountain range of Anti-Taurus Mountains (), stretches over the locations Yahyalı in Kayseri Province, Çamardı in Niğde Province and Aladağ in Adana Province.\n\nIt covers an area of at an average elevation of above mean sea level.\n"}
{"id": "1814105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1814105", "title": "Amasia (continent)", "text": "Amasia (continent)\n\nAmasia is a possible, future supercontinent that could be formed by the merger of Asia and North America. This prediction relies mostly on the fact that the Pacific Plate is already subducting under Eurasia and North America, a process which if continued will eventually cause the Pacific to close. Meanwhile, because of the Atlantic mid-ocean ridge, North America would be pushed westward. Thus, the Atlantic at some point in the future would be larger than the Pacific. In Siberia, the boundary between the Eurasian and North American Plates has been stationary for millions of years. The combination of these factors would cause North America to be combined with Asia, thus forming a supercontinent. A February 2012 study predicts Amasia will form over the North Pole, in about 50 million to 200 million years.\n\nPaleogeologist Ronald Blakey has described the next 15 to 100 million years of tectonic development as fairly settled and predictable but no supercontinent will form in that time frame. Beyond that, he cautions that the geologic record is full of unexpected shifts in tectonic activity that make further projections \"very, very speculative\". In addition to Amasia, two other hypothetical supercontinents—Christopher Scotese's \"Pangaea Ultima\" and Roy Livermore's \"Novopangaea\"—were illustrated in an October 2007 \"New Scientist\" article.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4380085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4380085", "title": "Apamea (Euphrates)", "text": "Apamea (Euphrates)\n\nApamea or Apameia () was a Hellenistic city on the left (viz.,the east) bank of the Euphrates, opposite the famous city of Zeugma, at the end of a bridge of boats (Greek: \"zeugma\") connecting the two, founded by Seleucus I Nicator (Pliny, v. 21). The city was rebuilt by Seleucus I. The site, once partially covered by the village of (formerly Rumkale), Şanlıurfa Province, Turkey, is now flooded by the lake formed by the Birecik Dam (Birejik Dam).\n\nThe ancient term Zeugma actually referred to the twin cities on the opposing banks of the river. Today the name Zeugma is usually understood to refer to the settlement on the west bank, called Seleucia () after the founder, while the one on the East bank was called Apamea after his Persian wife Apama.\n\n"}
{"id": "4733728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4733728", "title": "Borders of Mexico", "text": "Borders of Mexico\n\nMexico shares international borders with three nations:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48860835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48860835", "title": "Double summit", "text": "Double summit\n\nA double summit, double peak, twin summit or twin peak refers to a mountain or hill that has two summits, separated by a col or saddle.\nOne well known double summit is Austria’s highest mountain, the Großglockner, where the main summit of the Großglockner is separated from that of the Kleinglockner by the Glocknerscharte col in the area of a geological fault. Other double summits have resulted from geological folding. For example, on Mont Withrow in British Columbia resistant sandstones form the limbs of the double summit, whilst the softer rock in the core of the fold was eroded.\n\nTriple peaks occur more rarely - one example is the Rosengartenspitze in the Dolomites. The Illimani in Bolivia is an example of a quadruple summit.\n\nWell known double summits are (roughly from east to west):\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52114745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52114745", "title": "Doğançay Waterfall", "text": "Doğançay Waterfall\n\nDoğançay Waterfall () is a waterfall in Sakarya Province, northwestern Turkey. It is a registered natural monument of the country.\n\nThe waterfall is located in Maksudiye village of Geyve district in Sakarya Province. It is far from Adapazarı and from the Sakarya-Bilecik highway .\n\nOn May 13, 2013, the waterfall and its surroundings covering an area of , was registered as natural monument of the country by the Nature Reserve and Nature Parks Administration of the Ministry of Forest and Water Management.\n"}
{"id": "8960940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8960940", "title": "Earth Point", "text": "Earth Point\n\nEarthPoint.us maps southwest Idaho real estate listings onto Google Earth and Google Maps.\n\nEarth Point also maps the United States Public Land Survey System onto Google Earth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12398", "title": "Geographic information system", "text": "Geographic information system\n\nA geographic information system (GIS) is a system designed to capture, store, manipulate, analyze, manage, and present spatial or geographic data. GIS applications are tools that allow users to create interactive queries (user-created searches), analyze spatial information, edit data in maps, and present the results of all these operations. GIS (more commonly GIScience) sometimes refers to geographic information science (GIScience), the science underlying geographic concepts, applications, and systems.\n\nGIS can refer to a number of different technologies, processes, and methods. It is attached to many operations and has many applications related to engineering, planning, management, transport/logistics, insurance, telecommunications, and business. For that reason, GIS and location intelligence applications can be the foundation for many location-enabled services that rely on analysis and visualization.\n\nGIS can relate unrelated information by using location as the key index variable. Locations or extents in the Earth space–time may be recorded as dates/times of occurrence, and x, y, and z coordinates representing, longitude, latitude, and elevation, respectively. All Earth-based spatial–temporal location and extent references should be relatable to one another and ultimately to a \"real\" physical location or extent. This key characteristic of GIS has begun to open new avenues of scientific inquiry.\n\nThe first known use of the term \"geographic information system\" was by Roger Tomlinson in the year 1968 in his paper \"A Geographic Information System for Regional Planning\". Tomlinson is also acknowledged as the \"father of GIS\".\nPreviously, one of the first applications of spatial analysis in epidemiology is the 1832 \"Rapport sur la marche et les effets du choléra dans Paris et le département de la Seine\". The French geographer Charles Picquet represented the 48 districts of the city of Paris by halftone color gradient according to the number of deaths by cholera per 1,000 inhabitants. In 1854 John Snow determined the source of a cholera outbreak in London by marking points on a map depicting where the cholera victims lived, and connecting the cluster that he found with a nearby water source. This was one of the earliest successful uses of a geographic methodology in epidemiology. While the basic elements of topography and theme existed previously in cartography, the John Snow map was unique, using cartographic methods not only to depict but also to analyze clusters of geographically dependent phenomena.\n\nThe early 20th century saw the development of photozincography, which allowed maps to be split into layers, for example one layer for vegetation and another for water. This was particularly used for printing contours – drawing these was a labour-intensive task but having them on a separate layer meant they could be worked on without the other layers to confuse the draughtsman. This work was originally drawn on glass plates but later plastic film was introduced, with the advantages of being lighter, using less storage space and being less brittle, among others. When all the layers were finished, they were combined into one image using a large process camera. Once color printing came in, the layers idea was also used for creating separate printing plates for each color. While the use of layers much later became one of the main typical features of a contemporary GIS, the photographic process just described is not considered to be a GIS in itself – as the maps were just images with no database to link them to.\n\nComputer hardware development spurred by nuclear weapon research led to general-purpose computer \"mapping\" applications by the early 1960s.\n\nThe year 1960 saw the development of the world's first true operational GIS in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada, by the federal Department of Forestry and Rural Development. Developed by Dr. Roger Tomlinson, it was called the Canada Geographic Information System (CGIS) and was used to store, analyze, and manipulate data collected for the Canada Land Inventory – an effort to determine the land capability for rural Canada by mapping information about soils, agriculture, recreation, wildlife, waterfowl, forestry and land use at a scale of 1:50,000. A rating classification factor was also added to permit analysis.\n\nCGIS was an improvement over \"computer mapping\" applications as it provided capabilities for overlay, measurement, and digitizing/scanning. It supported a national coordinate system that spanned the continent, coded lines as arcs having a true embedded topology and it stored the attribute and locational information in separate files. As a result of this, Tomlinson has become known as the \"father of GIS\", particularly for his use of overlays in promoting the spatial analysis of convergent geographic data.\n\nCGIS lasted into the 1990s and built a large digital land resource database in Canada. It was developed as a mainframe-based system in support of federal and provincial resource planning and management. Its strength was continent-wide analysis of complex datasets. The CGIS was never available commercially.\n\nIn 1964 Howard T. Fisher formed the Laboratory for Computer Graphics and Spatial Analysis at the Harvard Graduate School of Design (LCGSA 1965–1991), where a number of important theoretical concepts in spatial data handling were developed, and which by the 1970s had distributed seminal software code and systems, such as SYMAP, GRID, and ODYSSEY – that served as sources for subsequent commercial development—to universities, research centers and corporations worldwide.\n\nBy the late 1970s two public domain GIS systems (MOSS and GRASS GIS) were in development, and by the early 1980s, M&S Computing (later Intergraph) along with Bentley Systems Incorporated for the CAD platform, Environmental Systems Research Institute (ESRI), CARIS (Computer Aided Resource Information System), MapInfo Corporation and ERDAS (Earth Resource Data Analysis System) emerged as commercial vendors of GIS software, successfully incorporating many of the CGIS features, combining the first generation approach to separation of spatial and attribute information with a second generation approach to organizing attribute data into database structures.\n\nIn 1986, Mapping Display and Analysis System (MIDAS), the first desktop GIS product was released for the DOS operating system. This was renamed in 1990 to MapInfo for Windows when it was ported to the Microsoft Windows platform. This began the process of moving GIS from the research department into the business environment.\n\nBy the end of the 20th century, the rapid growth in various systems had been consolidated and standardized on relatively few platforms and users were beginning to explore viewing GIS data over the Internet, requiring data format and transfer standards. More recently, a growing number of free, open-source GIS packages run on a range of operating systems and can be customized to perform specific tasks. Increasingly geospatial data and mapping applications are being made available via the World Wide Web (see ).\n\nSeveral articles on the history of GIS have been published.\n\nModern GIS technologies use digital information, for which various digitized data creation methods are used. The most common method of data creation is digitization, where a hard copy map or survey plan is transferred into a digital medium through the use of a CAD program, and geo-referencing capabilities. With the wide availability of ortho-rectified imagery (from satellites, aircraft, Helikites and UAVs), heads-up digitizing is becoming the main avenue through which geographic data is extracted. Heads-up digitizing involves the tracing of geographic data directly on top of the aerial imagery instead of by the traditional method of tracing the geographic form on a separate digitizing tablet (heads-down digitizing).\n\nGIS uses spatio-temporal (space-time) location as the key index variable for all other information. Just as a relational database containing text or numbers can relate many different tables using common key index variables, GIS can relate otherwise unrelated information by using location as the key index variable. The key is the location and/or extent in space-time.\n\nAny variable that can be located spatially, and increasingly also temporally, can be referenced using a GIS. Locations or extents in Earth space–time may be recorded as dates/times of occurrence, and x, y, and z coordinates representing, longitude, latitude, and elevation, respectively. These GIS coordinates may represent other quantified systems of temporo-spatial reference (for example, film frame number, stream gage station, highway mile-marker, surveyor benchmark, building address, street intersection, entrance gate, water depth sounding, POS or CAD drawing origin/units). Units applied to recorded temporal-spatial data can vary widely (even when using exactly the same data, see map projections), but all Earth-based spatial–temporal location and extent references should, ideally, be relatable to one another and ultimately to a \"real\" physical location or extent in space–time.\n\nRelated by accurate spatial information, an incredible variety of real-world and projected past or future data can be analyzed, interpreted and represented. This key characteristic of GIS has begun to open new avenues of scientific inquiry into behaviors and patterns of real-world information that previously had not been systematically correlated.\n\nGIS accuracy depends upon source data, and how it is encoded to be data referenced. Land surveyors have been able to provide a high level of positional accuracy utilizing the GPS-derived positions. High-resolution digital terrain and aerial imagery, powerful computers and Web technology are changing the quality, utility, and expectations of GIS to serve society on a grand scale, but nevertheless there are other source data that affect overall GIS accuracy like paper maps, though these may be of limited use in achieving the desired accuracy.\n\nIn developing a digital topographic database for a GIS, topographical maps are the main source, and aerial photography and satellite imagery are extra sources for collecting data and identifying attributes which can be mapped in layers over a location facsimile of scale. The scale of a map and geographical rendering area representation type are very important aspects since the information content depends mainly on the scale set and resulting locatability of the map's representations. In order to digitize a map, the map has to be checked within theoretical dimensions, then scanned into a raster format, and resulting raster data has to be given a theoretical dimension by a rubber sheeting/warping technology process.\n\nA quantitative analysis of maps brings accuracy issues into focus. The electronic and other equipment used to make measurements for GIS is far more precise than the machines of conventional map analysis. All geographical data are inherently inaccurate, and these inaccuracies will propagate through GIS operations in ways that are difficult to predict.\n\nGIS data represents real objects (such as roads, land use, elevation, trees, waterways, etc.) with digital data determining the mix. Real objects can be divided into two abstractions: discrete objects (e.g., a house) and continuous fields (such as rainfall amount, or elevations). Traditionally, there are two broad methods used to store data in a GIS for both kinds of abstractions mapping references: raster images and vector. Points, lines, and polygons are the stuff of mapped location attribute references. A new hybrid method of storing data is that of identifying point clouds, which combine three-dimensional points with RGB information at each point, returning a \"3D color image\". GIS thematic maps then are becoming more and more realistically visually descriptive of what they set out to show or determine.\n\nFor a list of popular GIS file formats, such as shapefiles, see .\n\nData capture—entering information into the system—consumes much of the time of GIS practitioners. There are a variety of methods used to enter data into a GIS where it is stored in a digital format.\n\nExisting data printed on paper or PET film maps can be digitized or scanned to produce digital data. A digitizer produces vector data as an operator traces points, lines, and polygon boundaries from a map. Scanning a map results in raster data that could be further processed to produce vector data.\n\nSurvey data can be directly entered into a GIS from digital data collection systems on survey instruments using a technique called coordinate geometry (COGO). Positions from a global navigation satellite system (GNSS) like Global Positioning System can also be collected and then imported into a GIS. A current trend in data collection gives users the ability to utilize field computers with the ability to edit live data using wireless connections or disconnected editing sessions. This has been enhanced by the availability of low-cost mapping-grade GPS units with decimeter accuracy in real time. This eliminates the need to post process, import, and update the data in the office after fieldwork has been collected. This includes the ability to incorporate positions collected using a laser rangefinder. New technologies also allow users to create maps as well as analysis directly in the field, making projects more efficient and mapping more accurate.\n\nRemotely sensed data also plays an important role in data collection and consist of sensors attached to a platform. Sensors include cameras, digital scanners and lidar, while platforms usually consist of aircraft and satellites. In England in the mid 1990s, hybrid kite/balloons called helikites first pioneered the use of compact airborne digital cameras as airborne geo-information systems. Aircraft measurement software, accurate to 0.4 mm was used to link the photographs and measure the ground. Helikites are inexpensive and gather more accurate data than aircraft. Helikites can be used over roads, railways and towns where unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) are banned.\n\nRecently aerial data collection is becoming possible with miniature UAVs. For example, the Aeryon Scout was used to map a 50-acre area with a ground sample distance of in only 12 minutes.\n\nThe majority of digital data currently comes from photo interpretation of aerial photographs. Soft-copy workstations are used to digitize features directly from stereo pairs of digital photographs. These systems allow data to be captured in two and three dimensions, with elevations measured directly from a stereo pair using principles of photogrammetry. Analog aerial photos must be scanned before being entered into a soft-copy system, for high-quality digital cameras this step is skipped.\n\nSatellite remote sensing provides another important source of spatial data. Here satellites use different sensor packages to passively measure the reflectance from parts of the electromagnetic spectrum or radio waves that were sent out from an active sensor such as radar. Remote sensing collects raster data that can be further processed using different bands to identify objects and classes of interest, such as land cover.\n\nWhen data is captured, the user should consider if the data should be captured with either a relative accuracy or absolute accuracy, since this could not only influence how information will be interpreted but also the cost of data capture.\n\nAfter entering data into a GIS, the data usually requires editing, to remove errors, or further processing. For vector data it must be made \"topologically correct\" before it can be used for some advanced analysis. For example, in a road network, lines must connect with nodes at an intersection. Errors such as undershoots and overshoots must also be removed. For scanned maps, blemishes on the source map may need to be removed from the resulting raster. For example, a fleck of dirt might connect two lines that should not be connected.\n\nData restructuring can be performed by a GIS to convert data into different formats. For example, a GIS may be used to convert a satellite image map to a vector structure by generating lines around all cells with the same classification, while determining the cell spatial relationships, such as adjacency or inclusion.\n\nMore advanced data processing can occur with image processing, a technique developed in the late 1960s by NASA and the private sector to provide contrast enhancement, false color rendering and a variety of other techniques including use of two dimensional Fourier transforms. Since digital data is collected and stored in various ways, the two data sources may not be entirely compatible. So a GIS must be able to convert geographic data from one structure to another. In so doing, the implicit assumptions behind different ontologies and classifications require analysis. Object ontologies have gained increasing prominence as a consequence of object-oriented programming and sustained work by Barry Smith and co-workers.\n\nThe earth can be represented by various models, each of which may provide a different set of coordinates (e.g., latitude, longitude, elevation) for any given point on the Earth's surface. The simplest model is to assume the earth is a perfect sphere. As more measurements of the earth have accumulated, the models of the earth have become more sophisticated and more accurate. In fact, there are models called datums that apply to different areas of the earth to provide increased accuracy, like NAD83 for U.S. measurements, and the World Geodetic System for worldwide measurements.\n\nGIS spatial analysis is a rapidly changing field, and GIS packages are increasingly including analytical tools as standard built-in facilities, as optional toolsets, as add-ins or 'analysts'. In many instances these are provided by the original software suppliers (commercial vendors or collaborative non commercial development teams), while in other cases facilities have been developed and are provided by third parties. Furthermore, many products offer software development kits (SDKs), programming languages and language support, scripting facilities and/or special interfaces for developing one's own analytical tools or variants. The increased availability has created a new dimension to business intelligence termed \"spatial intelligence\" which, when openly delivered via intranet, democratizes access to geographic and social network data. Geospatial intelligence, based on GIS spatial analysis, has also become a key element for security. GIS as a whole can be described as conversion to a vectorial representation or to any other digitisation process.\n\nSlope can be defined as the steepness or gradient of a unit of terrain, usually measured as an angle in degrees or as a percentage. Aspect can be defined as the direction in which a unit of terrain faces. Aspect is usually expressed in degrees from north. Slope, aspect, and surface curvature in terrain analysis are all derived from neighborhood operations using elevation values of a cell's adjacent neighbours. Slope is a function of resolution, and the spatial resolution used to calculate slope and aspect should always be specified. Various authors have compared techniques for calculating slope and aspect.\n\nThe following method can be used to derive slope and aspect:\n\nThe elevation at a point or unit of terrain will have perpendicular tangents (slope) passing through the point, in an east-west and north-south direction. These two tangents give two components, ∂z/∂x and ∂z/∂y, which then be used to determine the overall direction of slope, and the aspect of the slope. The gradient is defined as a vector quantity with components equal to the partial derivatives of the surface in the x and y directions.\n\nThe calculation of the overall 3x3 grid slope \"S\" and aspect \"A\" for methods that determine east-west and north-south component use the following formulas respectively:\n\nformula_1\n\nformula_2\n\nZhou and Liu describe another formula for calculating aspect, as follows:\n\nformula_3\n\nIt is difficult to relate wetlands maps to rainfall amounts recorded at different points such as airports, television stations, and schools. A GIS, however, can be used to depict two- and three-dimensional characteristics of the Earth's surface, subsurface, and atmosphere from information points. For example, a GIS can quickly generate a map with isopleth or contour lines that indicate differing amounts of rainfall. Such a map can be thought of as a rainfall contour map. Many sophisticated methods can estimate the characteristics of surfaces from a limited number of point measurements. A two-dimensional contour map created from the surface modeling of rainfall point measurements may be overlaid and analyzed with any other map in a GIS covering the same area. This GIS derived map can then provide additional information - such as the viability of water power potential as a renewable energy source. Similarly, GIS can be used to compare other renewable energy resources to find the best geographic potential for a region.\n\nAdditionally, from a series of three-dimensional points, or digital elevation model, isopleth lines representing elevation contours can be generated, along with slope analysis, shaded relief, and other elevation products. Watersheds can be easily defined for any given reach, by computing all of the areas contiguous and uphill from any given point of interest. Similarly, an expected thalweg of where surface water would want to travel in intermittent and permanent streams can be computed from elevation data in the GIS.\n\nA GIS can recognize and analyze the spatial relationships that exist within digitally stored spatial data. These topological relationships allow complex spatial modelling and analysis to be performed. Topological relationships between geometric entities traditionally include adjacency (what adjoins what), containment (what encloses what), and proximity (how close something is to something else).\n\nGeometric networks are linear networks of objects that can be used to represent interconnected features, and to perform special spatial analysis on them. A geometric network is composed of edges, which are connected at junction points, similar to graphs in mathematics and computer science. Just like graphs, networks can have weight and flow assigned to its edges, which can be used to represent various interconnected features more accurately. Geometric networks are often used to model road networks and public utility networks, such as electric, gas, and water networks. Network modeling is also commonly employed in transportation planning, hydrology modeling, and infrastructure modeling.\n\nGIS hydrological models can provide a spatial element that other hydrological models lack, with the analysis of variables such as slope, aspect and watershed or catchment area. Terrain analysis is fundamental to hydrology, since water always flows down a slope. As basic terrain analysis of a digital elevation model (DEM) involves calculation of slope and aspect, DEMs are very useful for hydrological analysis. Slope and aspect can then be used to determine direction of surface runoff, and hence flow accumulation for the formation of streams, rivers and lakes. Areas of divergent flow can also give a clear indication of the boundaries of a catchment. Once a flow direction and accumulation matrix has been created, queries can be performed that show contributing or dispersal areas at a certain point. More detail can be added to the model, such as terrain roughness, vegetation types and soil types, which can influence infiltration and evapotranspiration rates, and hence influencing surface flow. One of the main uses of hydrological modeling is in environmental contamination research. Other applications of hydrological modeling include groundwater and surface water mapping, as well as flood risk maps.\n\nDana Tomlin probably coined the term \"cartographic modeling\" in his PhD dissertation (1983); he later used it in the title of his book, \"Geographic Information Systems and Cartographic Modeling\" (1990).\nCartographic modeling refers to a process where several thematic layers of the same area are produced, processed, and analyzed. Tomlin used raster layers, but the overlay method (see below) can be used more generally. Operations on map layers can be combined into algorithms, and eventually into simulation or optimization models.\n\nThe combination of several spatial datasets (points, lines, or polygons) creates a new output vector dataset, visually similar to stacking several maps of the same region. These overlays are similar to mathematical Venn diagram overlays. A union overlay combines the geographic features and attribute tables of both inputs into a single new output. An intersect overlay defines the area where both inputs overlap and retains a set of attribute fields for each. A symmetric difference overlay defines an output area that includes the total area of both inputs except for the overlapping area.\n\nData extraction is a GIS process similar to vector overlay, though it can be used in either vector or raster data analysis. Rather than combining the properties and features of both datasets, data extraction involves using a \"clip\" or \"mask\" to extract the features of one data set that fall within the spatial extent of another dataset.\n\nIn raster data analysis, the overlay of datasets is accomplished through a process known as \"local operation on multiple rasters\" or \"map algebra\", through a function that combines the values of each raster's matrix. This function may weigh some inputs more than others through use of an \"index model\" that reflects the influence of various factors upon a geographic phenomenon.\n\nGeostatistics is a branch of statistics that deals with field data, spatial data with a continuous index. It provides methods to model spatial correlation, and predict values at arbitrary locations (interpolation).\n\nWhen phenomena are measured, the observation methods dictate the accuracy of any subsequent analysis. Due to the nature of the data (e.g. traffic patterns in an urban environment; weather patterns over the Pacific Ocean), a constant or dynamic degree of precision is always lost in the measurement. This loss of precision is determined from the scale and distribution of the data collection.\n\nTo determine the statistical relevance of the analysis, an average is determined so that points (gradients) outside of any immediate measurement can be included to determine their predicted behavior. This is due to the limitations of the applied statistic and data collection methods, and interpolation is required to predict the behavior of particles, points, and locations that are not directly measurable.\n\nInterpolation is the process by which a surface is created, usually a raster dataset, through the input of data collected at a number of sample points. There are several forms of interpolation, each which treats the data differently, depending on the properties of the data set. In comparing interpolation methods, the first consideration should be whether or not the source data will change (exact or approximate). Next is whether the method is subjective, a human interpretation, or objective. Then there is the nature of transitions between points: are they abrupt or gradual. Finally, there is whether a method is global (it uses the entire data set to form the model), or local where an algorithm is repeated for a small section of terrain.\n\nInterpolation is a justified measurement because of a spatial autocorrelation principle that recognizes that data collected at any position will have a great similarity to, or influence of those locations within its immediate vicinity.\n\nDigital elevation models, triangulated irregular networks, edge-finding algorithms, Thiessen polygons, Fourier analysis, (weighted) moving averages, inverse distance weighting, kriging, spline, and trend surface analysis are all mathematical methods to produce interpolative data.\n\nGeocoding is interpolating spatial locations (X,Y coordinates) from street addresses or any other spatially referenced data such as ZIP Codes, parcel lots and address locations. A reference theme is required to geocode individual addresses, such as a road centerline file with address ranges. The individual address locations have historically been interpolated, or estimated, by examining address ranges along a road segment. These are usually provided in the form of a table or database. The software will then place a dot approximately where that address belongs along the segment of centerline. For example, an address point of 500 will be at the midpoint of a line segment that starts with address 1 and ends with address 1,000. Geocoding can also be applied against actual parcel data, typically from municipal tax maps. In this case, the result of the geocoding will be an actually positioned space as opposed to an interpolated point. This approach is being increasingly used to provide more precise location information.\n\nReverse geocoding is the process of returning an estimated street address number as it relates to a given coordinate. For example, a user can click on a road centerline theme (thus providing a coordinate) and have information returned that reflects the estimated house number. This house number is interpolated from a range assigned to that road segment. If the user clicks at the midpoint of a segment that starts with address 1 and ends with 100, the returned value will be somewhere near 50. Note that reverse geocoding does not return actual addresses, only estimates of what should be there based on the predetermined range.\n\nCoupled with GIS, multi-criteria decision analysis methods support decision-makers in analysing a set of alternative spatial solutions, such as the most likely ecological habitat for restoration, against multiple criteria, such as vegetation cover or roads. MCDA uses decision rules to aggregate the criteria, which allows the alternative solutions to be ranked or prioritised. GIS MCDA may reduce costs and time involved in identifying potential restoration sites.\n\nCartography is the design and production of maps, or visual representations of spatial data. The vast majority of modern cartography is done with the help of computers, usually using GIS but production of quality cartography is also achieved by importing layers into a design program to refine it. Most GIS software gives the user substantial control over the appearance of the data.\n\nCartographic work serves two major functions:\n\nFirst, it produces graphics on the screen or on paper that convey the results of analysis to the people who make decisions about resources. Wall maps and other graphics can be generated, allowing the viewer to visualize and thereby understand the results of analyses or simulations of potential events. Web Map Servers facilitate distribution of generated maps through web browsers using various implementations of web-based application programming interfaces (AJAX, Java, Flash, etc.).\n\nSecond, other database information can be generated for further analysis or use. An example would be a list of all addresses within one mile (1.6 km) of a toxic spill.\n\nTraditional maps are abstractions of the real world, a sampling of important elements portrayed on a sheet of paper with symbols to represent physical objects. People who use maps must interpret these symbols. Topographic maps show the shape of land surface with contour lines or with shaded relief.\n\nToday, graphic display techniques such as shading based on altitude in a GIS can make relationships among map elements visible, heightening one's ability to extract and analyze information. For example, two types of data were combined in a GIS to produce a perspective view of a portion of San Mateo County, California.\n\nA GIS was used to register and combine the two images to render the three-dimensional perspective view looking down the San Andreas Fault, using the Thematic Mapper image pixels, but shaded using the elevation of the landforms. The GIS display depends on the viewing point of the observer and time of day of the display, to properly render the shadows created by the sun's rays at that latitude, longitude, and time of day.\n\nAn archeochrome is a new way of displaying spatial data. It is a thematic on a 3D map that is applied to a specific building or a part of a building. It is suited to the visual display of heat-loss data.\n\nSpatial ETL tools provide the data processing functionality of traditional extract, transform, load (ETL) software, but with a primary focus on the ability to manage spatial data. They provide GIS users with the ability to translate data between different standards and proprietary formats, whilst geometrically transforming the data en route. These tools can come in the form of add-ins to existing wider-purpose software such as spreadsheets.\n\nGIS or spatial data mining is the application of data mining methods to spatial data. Data mining, which is the partially automated search for hidden patterns in large databases, offers great potential benefits for applied GIS-based decision making. Typical applications include environmental monitoring. A characteristic of such applications is that spatial correlation between data measurements require the use of specialized algorithms for more efficient data analysis.\n\nThe implementation of a GIS is often driven by jurisdictional (such as a city), purpose, or application requirements. Generally, a GIS implementation may be custom-designed for an organization. Hence, a GIS deployment developed for an application, jurisdiction, enterprise, or purpose may not be necessarily interoperable or compatible with a GIS that has been developed for some other application, jurisdiction, enterprise, or purpose.\n\nGIS provides, for every kind of location-based organization, a platform to update geographical data without wasting time to visit the field and update a database manually. GIS when integrated with other powerful enterprise solutions like SAP and the Wolfram Language helps creating powerful decision support system at enterprise level.\nMany disciplines can benefit from GIS technology. An active GIS market has resulted in lower costs and continual improvements in the hardware and software components of GIS, and usage in the fields of science, government, business, and industry, with applications including real estate, public health, crime mapping, national defense, sustainable development, natural resources, climatology, landscape architecture, archaeology, regional and community planning, transportation and logistics. GIS is also diverging into location-based services, which allows GPS-enabled mobile devices to display their location in relation to fixed objects (nearest restaurant, gas station, fire hydrant) or mobile objects (friends, children, police car), or to relay their position back to a central server for display or other processing.\n\nThe Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC) is an international industry consortium of 384 companies, government agencies, universities, and individuals participating in a consensus process to develop publicly available geoprocessing specifications. Open interfaces and protocols defined by OpenGIS Specifications support interoperable solutions that \"geo-enable\" the Web, wireless and location-based services, and mainstream IT, and empower technology developers to make complex spatial information and services accessible and useful with all kinds of applications. Open Geospatial Consortium protocols include Web Map Service, and Web Feature Service.\n\nGIS products are broken down by the OGC into two categories, based on how completely and accurately the software follows the OGC specifications.\n\"Compliant Products\" are software products that comply to OGC's OpenGIS Specifications. When a product has been tested and certified as compliant through the OGC Testing Program, the product is automatically registered as \"compliant\" on this site.\n\n\"Implementing Products\" are software products that implement OpenGIS Specifications but have not yet passed a compliance test. Compliance tests are not available for all specifications. Developers can register their products as implementing draft or approved specifications, though OGC reserves the right to review and verify each entry.\n\nIn recent years there has been a proliferation of free-to-use and easily accessible mapping software such as the proprietary web applications Google Maps and Bing Maps, as well as the free and open-source alternative OpenStreetMap. These services give the public access to huge amounts of geographic data; perceived by many users to be as trustworthy and usable as professional information.\n\nSome of them, like Google Maps and OpenLayers, expose an application programming interface (API) that enable users to create custom applications. These toolkits commonly offer street maps, aerial/satellite imagery, geocoding, searches, and routing functionality. Web mapping has also uncovered the potential of crowdsourcing geodata in projects like OpenStreetMap, which is a collaborative project to create a free editable map of the world. These mashup projects have been proven to provide a high level of value and benefit to end users outside that possible through traditional geographic information.\n\nThe condition of the Earth's surface, atmosphere, and subsurface can be examined by feeding satellite data into a GIS. GIS technology gives researchers the ability to examine the variations in Earth processes over days, months, and years. As an example, the changes in vegetation vigor through a growing season can be animated to determine when drought was most extensive in a particular region. The resulting graphic represents a rough measure of plant health. Working with two variables over time would then allow researchers to detect regional differences in the lag between a decline in rainfall and its effect on vegetation.\n\nGIS technology and the availability of digital data on regional and global scales enable such analyses. The satellite sensor output used to generate a vegetation graphic is produced for example by the advanced very-high-resolution radiometer (AVHRR). This sensor system detects the amounts of energy reflected from the Earth's surface across various bands of the spectrum for surface areas of about 1 square kilometer. The satellite sensor produces images of a particular location on the Earth twice a day. AVHRR and more recently the moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer (MODIS) are only two of many sensor systems used for Earth surface analysis.\n\nIn addition to the integration of time in environmental studies, GIS is also being explored for its ability to track and model the progress of humans throughout their daily routines. A concrete example of progress in this area is the recent release of time-specific population data by the U.S. Census. In this data set, the populations of cities are shown for daytime and evening hours highlighting the pattern of concentration and dispersion generated by North American commuting patterns. The manipulation and generation of data required to produce this data would not have been possible without GIS.\n\nUsing models to project the data held by a GIS forward in time have enabled planners to test policy decisions using spatial decision support systems.\n\nTools and technologies emerging from the World Wide Web Consortium's Semantic Web are proving useful for data integration problems in information systems. Correspondingly, such technologies have been proposed as a means to facilitate interoperability and data reuse among GIS applications. and also to enable new analysis mechanisms.\n\nOntologies are a key component of this semantic approach as they allow a formal, machine-readable specification of the concepts and relationships in a given domain. This in turn allows a GIS to focus on the intended meaning of data rather than its syntax or structure. For example, reasoning that a land cover type classified as \"deciduous needleleaf trees\" in one dataset is a specialization or subset of land cover type \"forest\" in another more roughly classified dataset can help a GIS automatically merge the two datasets under the more general land cover classification. Tentative ontologies have been developed in areas related to GIS applications, for example the hydrology ontology developed by the Ordnance Survey in the United Kingdom and the SWEET ontologies developed by NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Also, simpler ontologies and semantic metadata standards are being proposed by the W3C Geo Incubator Group to represent geospatial data on the web. GeoSPARQL is a standard developed by the Ordnance Survey, United States Geological Survey, Natural Resources Canada, Australia's Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and others to support ontology creation and reasoning using well-understood OGC literals (GML, WKT), topological relationships (Simple Features, RCC8, DE-9IM), RDF and the SPARQL database query protocols.\n\nRecent research results in this area can be seen in the International Conference on Geospatial Semantics and the Terra Cognita – Directions to the Geospatial Semantic Web workshop at the International Semantic Web Conference.\n\nWith the popularization of GIS in decision making, scholars have begun to scrutinize the social and political implications of GIS. GIS can also be misused to distort reality for individual and political gain. It has been argued that the production, distribution, utilization, and representation of geographic information are largely related with the social context and has the potential to increase citizen trust in government. Other related topics include discussion on copyright, privacy, and censorship. A more optimistic social approach to GIS adoption is to use it as a tool for public participation.\n\nAt the end of the 20th century, GIS began to be recognized as tools that could be used in the classroom. The benefits of GIS in education seem focused on developing spatial thinking, but there is not enough bibliography or statistical data to show the concrete scope of the use of GIS in education around the world, although the expansion has been faster in those countries where the curriculum mentions them.\n\nGIS seem to provide many advantages in teaching geography because they allow for analyses based on real geographic data and also help raise many research questions from teachers and students in classrooms, as well as they contribute to improvement in learning by developing spatial and geographical thinking and, in many cases, student motivation.\n\nGIS is proven as an organization-wide, enterprise and enduring technology that continues to change how local government operates. Government agencies have adopted GIS technology as a method to better manage the following areas of government organization:\nThe Open Data initiative is pushing local government to take advantage of technology such as GIS technology, as it encompasses the requirements to fit the Open Data/Open Government model of transparency. With Open Data, local government organizations can implement Citizen Engagement applications and online portals, allowing citizens to see land information, report potholes and signage issues, view and sort parks by assets, view real-time crime rates and utility repairs, and much more. The push for open data within government organizations is driving the growth in local government GIS technology spending, and database management.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49368304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49368304", "title": "Geology of Germany", "text": "Geology of Germany\n\nThe geology of Germany is heavily influenced by several phases of orogeny in the Paleozoic and the Cenozoic, by sedimentation in shelf seas and epicontinental seas and on plains in the Permian and Mesozoic as well as by the Quaternary glaciations.\n\nGermany is located between the geologically very old (Precambrian) East European Craton (Baltica) to the north and north-east that further north is exposed as the Baltic Shield, and the geologically young (Cenozoic) Alpine-Carpathian Orogen to the south. The corresponding crustal provinces of Germany are thus geologically \"middle-aged\" and were accreted onto the East European Craton during the Paleozoic through plate tectonic processes. These areas form the geological basement of Germany. The basement is the oldest of the four geological crustal levels (\"German: \") that overlap in Central Europe, north of the Alps. The levels mainly reflect the age relationships of rocks and the great tectonic trends that the Earth's crust was subjected to in the course of its geological history: crustal extension and widespread, mostly marine, sedimentation alternating with crustal compression/orogeny and extensive erosion. The surface geology of Germany has evolved to its current configuration due to regional differences in the action and appearance of external and internal forces over the past 20 million years. Germany can be divided into three physiographic regions: the Central European Depression, the Central European Blocks and the Alps.\n\nThe northern third of Germany is part of the Central European Depression (\"German: Mitteleuropäische Senke\"), corresponding roughly to the North German Plain. It is a long-term subsiding area containing a sedimentary rock sequence, several thousand metres thick, of Late Palaeozoic to Cenozoic age and is characterised by a strong glacial overprint as well as salt tectonics of Permian salt diapirs together with minor long-range effects of the Alpine Orogeny.\n\nSouth of the Central European Depression is the Central European Blocks area (\"German: Mitteleuropäisches Schollengebiet\"), which geographically includes the Central Uplands, the South German Scarplands, the Upper Rhine Plain and foothills of the Alps. The long-range effects of the Alpine Orogeny were relatively strong in this area and the effects of the Pleistocene glaciations were small. The region is divided into several structurally uplifted blocks, where extensively folded Paleozoic basement outcrops, and some subsided/non-uplifted blocks capped almost exclusively by Mesozoic or Cenozoic rocks. The uplifted blocks are the Rhenish Massif (excluding the Ardennes), the Saxon and Thuringian blocks (not to be confused with the Saxothuringian Zone) including the Harz, the Thuringian Basin, the Thuringian Forest, the Thuringian-Franconian-Vogtland Slate Mountains and the Fichtel Mountains-Ore Mountains. The latter three geological units form the north-western edge of the Bohemian Massif, which is the largest contiguous outcrop of basement in Central Europe. The north-east edge of the Bohemian Massif is the Sudeten Block. The western edge of the central part of the Bohemian Massif, the Bohemian Block, extends into Germany with the mountain ranges of the Upper Palatinate Forest and the Bavarian Forest. The subsided/non-uplifted blocks are the Lower Rhine Graben (Cologne Lowland) with the Münsterland Cretaceous Basin (Westphalian Lowland), the Solling Block (Hessian Depression), the South German Block (the South German Scarplands together with the Odenwald, the Spessart, the Black Forest and the Molasse Basin) and the Upper Rhine Graben.\n\nSouth of the South German Block and the Bohemian Massif is the Alpine-Carpathian Arc (\"German: Alpen-Karpaten-Bogen\"). Although its extent in Germany is limited to the extreme south of Bavaria, this narrow strip has relatively high geological diversity. In this region, three of the four major tectonic \"domains\" of the Alps are found: the Helvetic nappes, the Penninic nappes (as the Rhenodanubian Flysch Zone) and the Eastern Alps (as the Northern Limestone Alps).\n\nBy age and structural characteristics of the rocks that are located underground and at the surface in Germany, four crustal \"levels\" are traditionally distinguished in the area north of the Alps: the basement, the transition level, the Mesozoic platform and the Cenozoic platform. The latter three are also summarised under the generic term platform, in contrast to the basement.\n\nThe basement consists of folded rocks, some of which are metamorphic rocks, mostly of marine-sedimentary and submarine-volcanic origin, intruded by granitoid plutons. Most of these rocks are of late Carboniferous age or older. Folding and metamorphism of these sedimentary and volcanic rocks, and the emplacement of the granitoids, occurred mainly in two Paleozoic orogenies: the Caledonian Orogeny in the Late Ordovician and the Variscan Orogeny in the early Carboniferous. In the oldest folded Variscan rocks, evidence exists of an older orogeny, the Cadomian Orogeny, which occurred before the accretion of the crustal blocks of Proto-Europe (Baltica) (\"German: \"). The folded basement rocks originated in the Proterozoic, but even older relics of continental crust are found in a paragneiss of the Bavarian Forest, the protolith of which was probably deposited subsequent to the Cadomian Orogeny. A sample of this paragneiss contains a detrital zircon grain, whose core crystallised from a magma during the Archean eon, before about 3.48 billion years ago.\n\nWhereas the Caledonian folded basement lies a few thousand metres below the surface of the Central European Depression, the Variscan basement or Variscides (\"German: \") outcrops in the Central European Blocks area, occurring extensively in several large highland areas and also sparsely in some lowland areas in the form of basement uplifts. A distinction is made here between rock complexes, commonly referred to as \"slate belts\" (\"German: \") made of unmetamorphosed or weakly metamorphosed rocks (slate, chert, sandstone, limestone, altered basalt, phyllite and quartzite) which are intruded only to a small extent by granitoids, and rock complexes commonly referred to as crystalline, comprising weakly to highly metamorphosed rocks (phyllite, quartzite, marble, amphibolite, serpentinite, schist, gneiss, granulite and eclogite) which are extensively intruded by granitoids. The slate belt rock units were folded at a shallow depth at relatively low temperatures, whereas the metamorphic crystalline areas sank much deeper during the Variscan Orogeny, and were subjected to high pressures and, in some places, very high temperatures which caused partial melting of the rocks. The geochemical signature of the Variscan granitoids suggests that their magma was produced by the partial melting of deeply-buried sedimentary rocks. Outcropping slate belts are found mainly in the Rhenish Massif, the Harz and the Thuringian-Franconian-Vogtland Slate Mountains. Outcropping crystalline areas are found mainly in the Black Forest, the western Odenwald, Vorspessart, the Ore Mountains, the Fichtel Mountains, the Palatinate Forest and the Bavarian Forest.\n\nThe transition level includes all unfolded sedimentary and volcanic rocks of late Carboniferous (Stephanian) to mid-Permian (Guadalupian) age. \"Transition level\" refers, in part, to the stratigraphic position of these rocks: they are younger than the folded Variscides but older than the layers of the Mesozoic platform. In addition, they stem from a geological transition phase, which is characterised by the flattening of the Variscan mountains and by post-Variscan volcanism, which was accompanied by crustal extension in the Variscan Orogen. The rocks of the transition level differ from the younger platform sediments in that they are often relatively coarse-grained (conglomeratic) Molasse sedimentary rocks and acidic to intermediate volcanic rocks (especially rhyolite), whereas the Mesozoic platform has few conglomerates and no volcanic rocks. The transition level is divided lithostratigraphically into Stephanian and Permian (Rotliegend) sequences. Rocks of the transition level are found today mainly in the Saar-Nahe Basin, the Halle-Leipzig area (e.g. Halle Porphyry Complex), the Ore Mountain Basin and the Thuringian Forest.\n\nThe Mesozoic platform includes all virtually unfolded sedimentary rocks of the Mesozoic (Triassic, Jurassic and Cretaceous), but also includes some Paleozoic deposits of the Lopingian epoch of the late Permian. In northern Germany, in principle, even the relatively unfolded or weakly folded post-Caledonian/pre-Permian sediments (including the Ruhr Carboniferous and its western continuation in the Aachen area) are included with the Mesozoic platform.\n\nThe outcropping Mesozoic platform at the surface comprises Zechstein (Middle/Late Permian) marine gypsum rocks and limestones, Buntsandstein (Early Triassic) siliciclastic rocks, Muschelkalk (Middle Triassic) marine limestones, Keuper (Middle and Late Triassic) mixed evaporite-carbonate-siliciclastic deposits, Early Jurassic (Lias/Schwarzjura) marine black shales, Dogger/Braunjura (Middle Jurassic) marine, often iron-bearing, siliciclastic rocks, White Jurassic/Malm (Late Jurassic) marine limestones, Early Cretaceous (Wealden) continental siliciclastic rocks and Late Cretaceous marine limestones, sandstones and gaizes. Outcropping Zechstein rocks are limited to the edges of basement uplifts. Triassic rocks cover the largest area. In the South German Block, extensively outcropping Mesozoic rocks dip towards the south-east. Due to the alternating layering of weathering/erosion-prone shales and more resistant sandstones and limestones, a cuesta landscape has formed there in the past several million years. The most conspicuous of these cuestas is the White Jura of Franconia and the Swabian Jura. Uplands formed by relatively weathering/erosion-resistant sandstones of the early/middle Buntsandstein are the Palatinate Forest, the Odenwald, the Spessart, the Südrhön and the Burgwald. Ridges of Muschelkalk limestone are found mainly in the Thuringian Basin. Probably the most well-known occurrence of Cretaceous sandstones is the Elbe Sandstone Mountains.\n\nIn northern Germany, individual blocks have been forced up by salt domes, and have been eroded down to the older layers of the Mesozoic platform. Erosion-resistant bedrock on these blocks forms small isolated ridges, especially in the northern Harz foreland region. These include the Elm hills (Muschelkalk), the Asse hills (Buntsandstein and Muschelkalk) and the Grosser Fallstein (Muschelkalk) as well as the island of Heligoland (Buntsandstein). Cretaceous chalk can be found, partly covered by thin Quaternary deposits, only in northern Germany, including in Münsterland Cretaceous Basin, where the Cretaceous deposits directly rest on the Ruhr Carboniferous and continue westward into the Aachen Formation, as well as in the Hanover and Salzgitter area. Probably the most well-known Cretaceous limestones of Germany are those on the island of Rügen, on Germany's north coast.\n\nThe Cenozoic platform (which is also known as the \"unconsolidated rock\" level because the Cenozoic sedimentary rocks, due to their young age, have often not experienced intensive diagenesis and are therefore often not cemented), includes the rocks of the Tertiary and Quaternary. Because the youngest deposits in an uplifted area are removed first, the Cenozoic platform deposits occur extensively only in young Cenozoic subsidence areas in the Central European Blocks region. The largest continuous outcrops are the Upper Rhine Graben with the Mainz Basin and the Molasse Basin (Alpine foreland trough). Special \"subsidence areas\" are the Nördlinger Ries and the Steinheim crater, both originating through a meteorite impact event. The Cenozoic deposits in the Central European Blocks region consist of both siliciclastic rocks and limestones and both marine and continental sediments. The Cenozoic in Germany is also represented by volcanic rocks. In contrast to the mostly acidic (SiO-rich) volcanic rocks of the transition level, the Cenozoic formations are mostly intermediate to very SiO-poor (trachyte, basalt, phonolite, tephrite, nephelinite and basanite). The largest Cenozoic volcanic areas in Germany are the Vogelsberg Mountains, the Westerwald, the Rhön Mountains and the Eifel.\n\nIn northern Germany, almost the entire surface geology is made of Cenozoic sediments, mainly of Pleistocene and Holocene glacial or fluvioglacial deposits. Moraines and urstromtals determine the relief (\"see: Glacial series\"). Thus the Southern Ridge (\"German: \") is a moraine of the Saale glaciation and the Northern Ridge (\"German: \") is a moraine of the Weichselian glaciation. The material of these sediments was picked up by the ice sheet on its way from Scandinavia to Central Europe and was deposited during the melting there. The route that the ice took can be reconstructed with the aid of rocks, the cobbles in the moraine sediments, because these can be matched with certain regions in Scandinavia (\"see: Glacial erratic\"). In southern Germany, with the exception of the Alpine foreland and the Upper Rhine Graben, there are rather thin Quaternary deposits and formations, geographically confined mostly to lower slopes and valleys where they occur as scree and stone runs or as fluvial gravels and sands. In the foothills of the Alps, there are also Pleistocene moraines. There, however, the cobbles originate from the Alps and a different nomenclature than in Northern Germany is used for the glacial periods in which the ice from the mountains in the south pushed into the foothills: The Saale glaciation corresponds there to the Riss glaciation and the Weichselian glaciation corresponds to the Würm glaciation.\n\nThe Alps are a young orogen, in which the relatively simple geological relationship between basement and platform that exists in the area north of the Alps has been overprinted and complicated by orogenic processes. The formation of the Alps happened in tectonic \"domains\", but within which basement and platform can be distinguished, which either jointly or separately, are built of separate nappes. Those nappes outcropping in the German Alps invariably contain platform units. The units in question are folded, unmetamorphosed sedimentary rocks, mainly of Mesozoic age, that were deposited almost exclusively in a marine environment. They can be associated with three of the four domains of the Alps.\n\nThe Helvetic Domain (also known as the Helvetic Nappes) (\"German: \") strikes approximately east-west in a strip, mostly only a few hundred metres wide, right at the northern edge of the Alps with siliciclastic and carbonate rocks of the Cretaceous and the early Tertiary that are overthrust towards the north onto the southern edge of the Molasse Basin. There are mainly shallow marine formations that are, for example, rich in nummulites. They represent the inner continental shelf on the southern edge of pre-Alpine Europe and they were not affected by the folding and overthrusting processes of the Alpine Orogeny until relatively late.\n\nThe Penninic Domain (also known as the Penninic Nappes) (\"German: \") strikes south of the Helvetic Domain in a strip, a few kilometres wide, in the form of the Rhenodanubian Flysch Zone. It comprises Cretaceous - Early Tertiary siliciclastic-carbonate turbiditic deepwater sediments (\"see: Flysch\"), which represent a portion of the erosion debris forming the Alpine sedimentary wedge that in the further course of formation of the Alps was itself incorporated into the orogen and overthrust over a distance of about 100 km to the north onto the Helvetic units.\n\nThe Eastern Alps strike south of the Flysch Zone and occupy the largest area in the German Alps. In Germany, the Eastern Alps are, for the most part, Mesozoic mostly Triassic carbonate rocks. This carbonate rock association, whose outcrop runs in a 35 to 50-kilometre-wide strip from Vorarlberg as far as the Vienna Basin, is called the Northern Limestone Alps. In contrast to the Helvetic Domain and the Flysch Zone that still mostly have a low mountain character (\"German: \") although they are morphologically clearly set apart from the Alpine foreland, the Northern Limestone Alps form high mountains (\"German: \") of well over 2,000 metres above sea level. Of the high mountains of Germany, the highest is Zugspitze, with a height of 2,962 metres, more than a thousand metres higher than Feldberg in the Black Forest, Germany's highest mountain outside the Alps.\n\nThe Northern Limestone Alps represent a depositional environment that was probably located several hundred kilometres to the south, relative to the current position of the rocks. This is reflected in facies as well as in the fossil record: While in the Eastern Alps platform carbonates with tropical faunas were established during the late Middle Triassic, the contemporary, epicontinental, partly terrestrial sequences in Central Europe north of the Alps (\"see: Mesozoic platform\") are rather dominated by siliciclastics and had rather warm temperate faunas. Therefore, especially with regard to the formation of Triassic rocks, a distinction is made between \"Germanic facies\" (Central Europe north of the Alps) and \"Alpine facies\" (Northern Limestone Alps). Starting from the Late Cretaceous, the Eastern Alps were affected by the Alpine Orogeny and the rocks of the Northern Limestone Alps were stacked and transported to the north, to their present position, overriding the Helvetic and Penninic domains.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29034375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29034375", "title": "Glossary of geography terms", "text": "Glossary of geography terms\n\nThis glossary of geography terms is a list of definitions of terms and concepts used in geography and related fields, which describe and identify natural phenomena, geographical locations, spatial dimension and natural resources. Geographical terms are classified according to their functions, such as description, explanation, analysing, evaluating and integrating.\n\n\nMuch of this material was copied from U.S. government works which are in the because they are not eligible for copyright protection.\n"}
{"id": "4493773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4493773", "title": "Hall Basin", "text": "Hall Basin\n\nHall Basin is an Arctic waterway between Hall Land in Greenland to the west and Canada's northernmost island to the east, Ellesmere Island. \n\nHall Basin is named after American polar explorer Charles Francis Hall.\nHall Basin is located in Nares Strait with its entrance between Cape Baird on the eastern coast of Ellesmere Island and Cape Morton on the northwestern coast of Greenland. Robeson Channel is to the north of the basin, and Kennedy Channel to the south. The basin is irregularly shaped, the entrance to Lady Franklin Bay lies on its western shores, being deeply indented by an extensive fjord system. Although the eastern shore is more regular, it includes the Petermann Fjord of the Petermann Glacier at its southern end.\n\n"}
{"id": "48538753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48538753", "title": "Hamilton Canal", "text": "Hamilton Canal\n\nThe Hamilton Canal (also commonly known as the Dutch Canal) is a canal connecting Puttalam to Colombo, passing through Negombo in Sri Lanka. The canal was constructed by the British in 1802 and completed in 1804. It was designed to drain salt water out of the Muthurajawela wetlands. The canal was named after Gavin Hamilton, the Government Agent of Revenue and Commerce.\n\nThe first mention of the canals along the western seaboard of Sri Lanka was in the 8th century, when the Persian geographer, Abu Zayd al-Balkhi reported a voyage lasting weeks along the 'Gobbs of Serendib', the Arabian term for the linked lagoons along the coast.\n\nSix centuries later the King of Kotte, Veera Parakramabahu VIII (1477–1496), had a network of canals constructed connecting outlying villages with Colombo and Negombo Lagoon so that produce such as arecanuts, cloves, cardamom, pepper and cinnamon, could be more easily transported to the kingdom’s main seaport at Negombo.\n\nIn 1613 a Portuguese missionary, Father Manoel Barradas, describes how \"Near Columbo the Fathers embarked on a canal by which they entered into the River Calane [Kelani Ganga], and going down the river they proceeded into another canal as narrow as shady, so that the oars, although they were very short, could scarcely fulfil their office\". \"By this they went as far as Negumbo, which is six Chingala leagues.\" In the 17th century the Portuguese constructed a canal from Hendala to Pamunugama.\n\nThe Dutch established the centre of their colony at Colombo. They then attempted to grow paddy rice in the surrounding marshes in Muthurajawela, but found that—as the previous Sinhalese kings had before them—the coastal tides inundated the fields with sea water. Around the 18th century, the Dutch commenced the construction of a series of structures, dams and canals using and enhancing the original system of waterways in an attempt to drain the salt water from the rice fields and to transport cinnamon in barges through to the seaport at Negombo. This system, known as the 'Dutch Canal', formed a \"continuous line of waterways between ports and the remote sections of territory under the Dutch\".\n\nIn 1796 the British took control of the island and in 1802 a new Colombo-Negombo canal was built, conceived by George Atkinson, the Colonial Surveyor General and supported by Gavin Hamilton (1494–1803), the Government Agent of Revenue and Commerce. The Hamilton Canal, as it became known, ran parallel and west of the old Dutch Canal, closer to the sea, from the mouth of the Kelani Ganga at Hekitta to the southern edge of the Negombo Lagoon at Pamunugama, a distance of 14.5 km. Hamilton had accompanied Frederick North (first British Governor of Ceylon 1798–1805) to Ceylon in 1798, where he became the private secretary to Hugh Cleghorn, Colonial Secretary of Ceylon. He subsequently became the private secretary to Governor North. In April 1799 Hamilton was appointed Acting Civil Paymaster and in 1802 the Deputy Paymaster General. He succeeded Joseph Greenhill as Agent of Revenue and Commerce for the District of Colombo. Hamilton died in February 1803 prior to the completion of the canal in 1804. After his death he was found to have embezzled £19,675.\n\nThe canal was designed to connect the original Dutch canal by a series of parallel waterways in order to drain the already damaged Muthurajawela but created the opposite effect, as the coastal tides brought increasing salinity not only from Negombo Lagoon but also the Kelani Ganga.\n\nIn 2012 the Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation commenced work rehabilitating and restoring the canal. The first stage was a stretch between Maha Oya and Negombo. The second phase of the works between the Kelani Ganga and Negombo commenced on 20 February 2013. The first section, between the Hekiththa junction and Pinwatta was completed on 2 August 2013 at a cost of Rs. 400 million with financial assistance from the Japanese Bank for International Cooperation.\n"}
{"id": "16035002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16035002", "title": "Harper Hall", "text": "Harper Hall\n\nThe Harper Hall at Fort Hold is a central location in Anne McCaffrey's Chronicles of Pern.\n\nAnne McCaffrey combines the roles of teachers, historians, lawyers, diplomats and musicians into the guild of Harpers on the planet Pern. Under the leadership of the MasterHarper, such as MasterHarper Robinton of the Ninth Pass, the harpers utilise music as a teaching tool and are sent out to all Holds and Crafthalls to train youngsters in vocabulary, numeracy and rights and responsibilities of all. Being spread throughout the various settlements, harpers see and hear much, and report back to the Harper Hall.\n\nMcCaffrey explores the theme of history and legend in her Pern prequels, which include discussions about the loss of technology and skills in the colony. The Harper Hall is located at Fort Hold, the first Hold established in the northern hemisphere after the Second Crossing. It was initially known as the College, and was the central training point for medical and teaching personnel. As the level of technology dropped, the community struggled to justify training personnel to use techniques that could no longer be utilised, including genetics and computer science. The battle for survival under the onslaught of Thread demanded a reorganisation of priorities. The decision was then made to utilise music as an easy medium to teach and communicate within the low-tech society. The theme of tradition, which runs throughout McCaffrey's writing, is based on Teaching Ballads and Sagas taught by the Harper Hall to all Pernese.\n"}
{"id": "23113923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23113923", "title": "Hili, Dakshin Dinajpur", "text": "Hili, Dakshin Dinajpur\n\nHili is a village with a police station in Hili CD Block in Balurghat subdivision of Dakshin Dinajpur district in the Indian state of West Bengal. It is a border checkpoint on the India–Bangladesh border.\n\nDuring the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971 nearly 400 soldiers of both India and Pakistan were killed in the war that continued from 24 November to 11 December 1971 on the Hili border.\n\nHili is located at .\n\nAs of 2011 census Hili had a population of 2,185.\n\nAt the time of partition in 1947, Hili railway station (now on Chilahati-Parbatipur-Santahar-Darshana line} got located in Pakistan and is now in Hakimpur Upazila of Bangladesh.\n\nExtension of the Eklakhi-Balurghat branch line to Hili was announced in the Rail Budget for 2010-11.\n\nState Highway 10 (West Bengal), originating from Malda Town terminates at Hili.\n\nHili has an India-Bangladesh border check point. As part of Hili is located in Bangladesh, the other side of the border is also known as Hili in Hakimpur Upazila in Dinajpur diatrict of Bangladesh. Sizeable trade activity is carried on with trucks traveling across the border.\n\n"}
{"id": "36968957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36968957", "title": "International rankings of Guyana", "text": "International rankings of Guyana\n\nInternational rankings of Guyana\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16086367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16086367", "title": "Lammefjorden", "text": "Lammefjorden\n\nThe Lammefjord is a former body of water in Denmark at the base of the Odsherred peninsula. Previously a deeply branched arm of the sea leading west from the Isefjord, most of it is now reclaimed as agricultural land. The eastern third, outside the dyke at Avdebo, is still sea, but the name \"Lammefjorden\" now usually refers only to the dry part west of the dyke.\n\nThe sandy former sea bed is excellent agricultural land, especially for crops such as carrots and potatoes.\n\nThe draining project began in 1873, but it took until 1943 before the lowest elevations were pumped dry. Large parts of the fjord were shallow enough to be dry early on. In 1899 the Odsherred Railway opened across the western end of the fjord. The town of Fårevejle Stationsby grew up where the railway intersects that main road across the seabed; it serves as the administrative and mercantile center for much of the Lammefjord.\n\nThe Lammefjord contains Denmark's lowest dry elevation, at below sea level. It is also in running for the lowest in western Europe (shared with Zuidplaspolder in Netherlands).\n\n"}
{"id": "41504132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41504132", "title": "List of American countries by average wage", "text": "List of American countries by average wage\n\nThis is the map and list of American countries by monthly net average wage. The chart below reflects the average (mean) wage as reported by various data providers. The salary distribution is right-skewed, therefore most people earn less than the average net salary. In less developed markets, actual incomes may exceed those listed in the table due to the existence of grey economy.\n\nThe countries in purple on the map have net average salary in excess of and in blue –in the range of to , in green - in the range of to , in yellow - in the range of to , and in red below .\n\n"}
{"id": "1155975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1155975", "title": "List of Belgian bands and artists", "text": "List of Belgian bands and artists\n\nA list of Belgian bands and artists of all time periods. The bands and artists are either Belgian, of Belgian origin or contain Belgian members.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13684431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13684431", "title": "List of NHS trusts", "text": "List of NHS trusts\n\nThis is a list of NHS trusts established in England. It includes Acute Hospital Trusts, Ambulance Trusts, Mental Health Trusts, and the unique Isle of Wight NHS Trust. Many trusts have dissolved or have changed their name, and each is listed separately, under each significant name. If the same trust has continued with only a slight name change, it is only listed once, with the latest name.\n\nCommunity Health NHS Trusts present particular difficulties. Like all the trusts they were originally established under the National Health Service and Community Care Act 1990. They have been frequently merged, split and reorganised, sometimes combined with hospital trusts or mental health trusts. After 2001 most of them were subsumed into Primary Care Trusts and under the Transforming Community Services programme they were then re-established in various organisational forms, not always within the NHS. A further wave of community trusts were established between 2010 and 2013 when PCTs were abolished, sometimes reusing a previous name.\n\nThere is a separate List of Primary Care Trusts in England which did not have the same legal status.\n\nDates of mergers and dissolutions are generally the date of legislation. The operational date may be different.\n\n\nNHS Foundation Trusts were regulated by Monitor. Trusts that had not attained Foundation Trust status were supervised by the NHS Trust Development Authority. From 1 April 2016 they are all supervised by NHS Improvement.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31496348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31496348", "title": "List of Speakers of the Parliament of Nauru", "text": "List of Speakers of the Parliament of Nauru\n\nThe Speaker of the Parliament of Nauru is the presiding officer of that legislature in the Republic of Nauru. The Speaker is elected by the members in the Parliament of Nauru.\n\nA list of the office holders follows.\n"}
{"id": "317151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=317151", "title": "List of airports by IATA code: Z", "text": "List of airports by IATA code: Z\n\n"}
{"id": "28524020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28524020", "title": "List of companies of Abkhazia", "text": "List of companies of Abkhazia\n\nAbkhazia is a partially recognised state on the eastern coast of the Black Sea and the south-western flank of the Caucasus, south of Russia and northwest of Georgia proper. Its capital is Sukhumi. The separatist Abkhazian polity, formally the Republic of Abkhazia or Apsny, is recognised only by Russia and a small number of other countries. While Georgia lacks control over Abkhazia, the Georgian government, the United Nations and the majority of the world's governments consider Abkhazia part of Georgia, whose constitution designates the area the Autonomous Republic of Abkhazia.\n\nThe economy of Abkhazia is heavily integrated with Russia and uses the Russian ruble as its currency. Abkhazia has experienced a modest economic upswing since the 2008 South Ossetia war and Russia's subsequent recognition of Abkhazia's independence. About half of Abkhazia's state budget is financed with aid money from Russia.\n\nTourism is a key industry and, according to Abkhazia's authorities, almost a million tourists (mainly from Russia) came to Abkhazia in 2007. Abkhazia also enjoys fertile lands and an abundance of agricultural products, including tea, tobacco, wine and fruits (especially tangerines and hazelnuts). Electricity is largely supplied by the Inguri hydroelectric power station located on the Inguri River between Abkhazia and Georgia (proper) and operated jointly by both parties.\n\nThis list includes notable companies with primary headquarters located in the country. The industry and sector follow the Industry Classification Benchmark taxonomy. Organizations which have ceased operations are included and noted as defunct.\n"}
{"id": "3082314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3082314", "title": "List of countries by age at first marriage", "text": "List of countries by age at first marriage\n\nThis is a list of countries by age at first marriage. Definition of marriage is the legally or formally recognized union of two people as partners in a personal relationship (historically and in some jurisdictions specifically a union between a man and a woman). Marriage is a legally recognized union between two partners in a relationship. The average age to first get married varies from one country to another and is affected by several factors such as financial stability, career, academic pursuit, and family background. This list is current from the most recent surveys and does not treat the topic in history.\n\nBecause the age distribution of people at first marriage is skewed with a longer tail towards older ages, the majority of people marry before the average age of first marriage. The median age is a more precise representation of when the majority of people marry, however, for most reporting sources, only the average age at marriage is reported.\n\nSome countries have most recent and updated census while other countries haven't been updated since the 1990s. \n\nNote: the reported age for these countries is the median, not the mean (average). All countries in italics have their data in the mean and not the median.\n\n"}
{"id": "20948584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20948584", "title": "List of countries without an airport", "text": "List of countries without an airport\n\nThis is a list of countries (sovereign states) and territories without an airport.\n\nOf the world's independent states, only the five European microstates have no airport within their boundaries, though all have at least one heliport. All apart from Monaco are landlocked, one of which, Liechtenstein, is doubly landlocked.\n\n\nOf the world's 17 non-self-governing territories, two have no airport within their boundaries: Tokelau and the Pitcairn Islands. Both are islands without land connection, so fairly long boat trips are the only transportation.\n"}
{"id": "7135788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7135788", "title": "List of diplomatic missions of Seychelles", "text": "List of diplomatic missions of Seychelles\n\nThis is a list of diplomatic missions of Seychelles. The Indian Ocean island country of the Seychelles only has seven diplomatic missions overseas, although it has a very large number of honorary consulates (not listed below).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47276057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47276057", "title": "List of islands of Tokelau", "text": "List of islands of Tokelau\n\nThis is a list of coral islands on the atolls of Tokelau.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2222410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2222410", "title": "List of kings of Axum", "text": "List of kings of Axum\n\nThe kings of Axum ruled an important trading nation in the area which is now Eritrea and northern Ethiopia, from approximately 100–940 AD.\n\nThe following kings ruled between 600–900, though individual dates are not available.\n"}
{"id": "19881111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19881111", "title": "List of non-marine molluscs of Great Britain", "text": "List of non-marine molluscs of Great Britain\n\nThis list comprises 220 species of non-marine molluscs that have been recorded in the scientific literature as part of the fauna of the island of Great Britain. These are terrestrial and aquatic gastropods, and aquatic bivalves; the list does not include species of molluscs which are considered to be fully marine, except for two marine pulmonate gastropods.\n\nIn other words: this list includes land snails and slugs, and freshwater and brackish water snails. It also includes freshwater mussels and clams, including some that can tolerate brackish water. Molluscs that are fully adapted to live in the sea are not included here, except for two species that are air-breathing and thus are more closely related to most land and freshwater snails than they are to the majority of sea snails.\n\nGreat Britain is a European island in the northeastern Atlantic, comprising the contiguous countries of England, Scotland and Wales. (Great Britain is not the same entity as the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, for more information on the complex nomenclature of this area, please see terminology of the British Isles.)\n\nThe mollusc fauna of the island of Ireland, which includes both the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland, is listed in another article: List of non-marine molluscs of Ireland.\n\nA number of species of snails listed here are semi-terrestrial and so are sometimes also found on lists of marine species. Two listed here, in the genera \"Onchidella\" and \"Otina\", are fully marine in habitat, but are pulmonate snails which breathe air at low tide rather than having gills like most marine species. Other species listed here live in habitats that are intermediate between land and saltwater, or in brackish water habitats intermediate between freshwater and full-salinity saltwater.\n\nAdditional species are still being added to the list of the non-marine malacofauna of Great Britain. Three of the more recent discoveries are \"Papillifera bidens\" first found in 1993, \"Selenochlamys ysbryda\" a species which appeared to be new to science and which was first found in 2005, and \"Eobania vermiculata\" first found in 2006 and possibly not really established at that point. A major revision of the slug fauna published in 2014, partly based on genetic sequencing, established that there were 20% more species than had previously been recognised. Not all these species have been definitely identified and some are formally undescribed.\n\nIn addition to the species that survive outdoors in Great Britain, there are also another 14 exotic gastropod species (some terrestrial and some aquatic) which live as \"uninvited guests\" in greenhouses and their enclosed aquaria. These species are known as \"hothouse aliens\", and are listed separately at the end of the main list. In this list these species are not counted as part of the fauna.\n\nThe following table shows a summary of species numbers.\n\nThose species that are recognized as endangered are shown with an E after their name, see List of endangered species in the British Isles.\n\nSome species are protected in the United Kingdom under the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981:\n\nTwo of the land snails on the list (\"Fruticicola fruticum\" and \"Cernuella neglecta\") are now locally extinct (in Great Britain, sometimes abbreviated here as G.B.), but they still occur in other parts of Europe.\n\nThe list is arranged by presumed biological affinity, rather than being alphabetical by family.\n\nA number of species are listed with subspecies, in cases where there are well-recognized subspecies in different parts of Europe. For some species a synonym is given, where the species may perhaps be better known under another name.\n\nAn attempt has been made to label the families as aquatic, terrestrial or intermediate, and an indication is given where it is thought that the species is introduced. Some introductions to Great Britain are quite ancient, dating from Roman times or even earlier, for example, Paleolithic. Those species that do not have a shell usually do not leave an archeological or fossil record, and therefore it is not always possible to determine whether they are native or introduced. Species are considered to be native, unless otherwise indicated on the list; this information is taken from Kerney, 1999, updated in the case of slugs with the opinions of Rowson et al. 2014.\n\nNote: the images used to illustrate the list are mostly of specimens that were found in other countries.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe following gastropods are pulmonates:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThis group of exotic land and freshwater species are not truly part of the fauna because they do not live in the wild. Many are tropical and thus are incapable of surviving in the wild in Great Britain; instead they have established themselves as uninvited inhabitants of greenhouses, aquaria within greenhouses, and similar artificially-heated habitats.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23980958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23980958", "title": "List of people from Maluku Islands", "text": "List of people from Maluku Islands\n\nThis is a list of notable people coming from Republik Maluku Selatan.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2331330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2331330", "title": "List of people on the postage stamps of the People's Republic of China", "text": "List of people on the postage stamps of the People's Republic of China\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1003579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1003579", "title": "List of regions of Africa", "text": "List of regions of Africa\n\nThe continent of Africa is commonly divided into five regions or subregions, four of which are in Sub-Saharan Africa.\n\nThe five UN subregions:\n\n\nOne common approach categorizes Africa directionally, e.g., by cardinal direction (compass direction):\n\nThis approach is taken, for example, in the United Nations geoscheme for Africa and the regions of the African Union.\n\nAnother common approach divides Africa by using features such as landforms, climatic regions, or vegetation types:\n\n\n\nA slightly less common, but equally important method of division of the continent is by investment factors. For the purposes of investing, Africa is not a single destination with a single set of standardized risk factors and homogeneous potential for reward. Although some high-level similarities are evident, digging into the specifics of certain regions and countries shows that Africa comprises a range of distinct investment destinations, each with its own attractions, flaws, cultural differences and business practices.\n\nThe investment approach was first developed by global, independent financial analytics provider and investment consultant, RisCura.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50004777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50004777", "title": "List of the major 3000-meter summits of the Rocky Mountains", "text": "List of the major 3000-meter summits of the Rocky Mountains\n\nThe following sortable table comprises the 184 peaks of the Rocky Mountains of North America with at least of elevation and at least of topographic prominence.\n\nThe summit of a mountain or hill may be measured in three principal ways:\n\nIn the Rocky Mountains, 62 major summits exceed elevation, 137 exceed , and the following 184 exceed elevation.\n\nOf the 401 major 3000-meter summits of greater North America, the following 184 (or 46%) are in the Rocky Mountains.\n\nOf these 184 major 3000-meter summits of the Rocky Mountains, 116 are located in Colorado, 17 in Wyoming, 15 in Montana, 12 in Alberta, 11 in British Columbia, seven in New Mexico, five in Idaho, and four in Utah. Three of these summits lie on the Great Divide between Alberta and British Columbia. The 30 highest major summits of the Rocky Mountains are all located in Colorado.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11485468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11485468", "title": "List of towns and cities with 100,000 or more inhabitants/country: C", "text": "List of towns and cities with 100,000 or more inhabitants/country: C\n\n\n\n\n\nThe numbers here do not indicate the rank of population in each city, merely it is to keep count of how many cities there are.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54343921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54343921", "title": "Middletown Friends Meetinghouse", "text": "Middletown Friends Meetinghouse\n\nMiddletown Friends Meetinghouse is a Historic Quaker meeting house at 435 Middletown Road in Lima, Delaware County, Pennsylvania, United States. It is one of the oldest Friends meetinghouses in what was originally Chester County. \n\nThe first mention of an organized Friends meeting in Middletown Township was in 1686. The location and construction of a meetinghouse was noted in 1699 and the Middletown Friends Meetinghouse was completed in 1702. \n\nDuring the 1790s, the building was doubled in size through the addition of a separate apartment. In the 1880s, the meetinghouse was reconfigured creating a more church-like appearance and orientation. \n\nThe Middletown Friends meetinghouse is an active worship center.\n\nJohn Edwards, the Congressman from Pennsylvania is interred at the Middletown Friends Meetinghouse cemetery.\n"}
{"id": "5243843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5243843", "title": "Municipalities of Montenegro", "text": "Municipalities of Montenegro\n\nThe municipalities (Montenegrin Latin: \"opštine\", singular: \"opština\") are the first level administrative subdivisions of Montenegro. The country is divided into 23 municipalities including the Old Royal Capital Cetinje and the Podgorica Capital City. Podgorica is divided into one subdivisions called city municipality (Montenegrin Latin: \"gradska opština\"), forming the basic level of local government.\n\nRecently created:\n\nCity municipality:\n\nThe \"Union of Municipalities of Montenegro\" is a national association of local authorities of Montenegro.\n\nList of current mayors and local governments<br>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22235835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22235835", "title": "National Executive Committee for Space-Based Positioning, Navigation and Timing", "text": "National Executive Committee for Space-Based Positioning, Navigation and Timing\n\nThe National Executive Committee for Space-Based Positioning, Navigation and Timing (PNT) is a United States Government organisation which advises and coordinates federal departments and agencies on matters concerning the Global Positioning System, space navigation, navigational references, and related systems.\n\nIt was established by Presidential Directive in 2004 and supersedes the Interagency GPS Executive Board.\n\nThe PNT is chaired jointly by the Deputy Secretaries of Defense and Transportation.\n\n"}
{"id": "40480796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40480796", "title": "Odranski Obrež", "text": "Odranski Obrež\n\nOdranski Obrež is a village in Central Croatia, located south of Zagreb. The population is 1,578 (census 2011).\n"}
{"id": "1720965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1720965", "title": "Podsljeme", "text": "Podsljeme\n\nPodsljeme () is a city district situated in the foothills of Zagreb's mountain Medvednica and its name stands for \"under Sljeme\" (Sljeme is the peak of the Medvednica mountain). It has the status of \"četvrt\" (quarter, district, borough) and as such has an elected council. It is located about 5km north of central Zagreb.\n\nPodsljeme had 19,165 residents in 2011. Its residents are mainly upper middle or upper class.\n\nPodsljeme is an affluent part of Zagreb with a high cost per square meter, about 3500 Euros per square meter. Upper-middle-class homes and dense deciduous forest prevail in this area. Many of the city's tycoons, political personalities and celebrities live in the district.\n\n"}
{"id": "59121875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59121875", "title": "Potted History", "text": "Potted History\n\nPotted History: The Story of Plants in the Home is a 2007 book on social history and horticulture and gardening in the historical domestic setting by author and journalist Catherine Horwood. It was first published in hardback by the British publisher Frances Lincoln Publishers. \n\n\"Potted History: The Story of Plants in the Home\" was published in an illustrated, hardback edition.\n\nRather than focusing on the more usual subject matter of how to look after and rear houseplants, Horwood instead traces the historical and sociological reasons why houseplants but Catherine Horwood came to be found in our homes. She writes how potted plants and domestic horticulture are as subject to fashion as pieces of furniture, from the Victorian's use of the aspidistra in their front parlour to the contemporary of the orchid in the designer loft. The book also covers the influence of indoor horticulture on period design, finding that Wedgwood created a market for special bulb pots and that some of Terence Conran's early designs were for houseplant containers.\n\n"}
{"id": "1922946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1922946", "title": "Qilian Mountains", "text": "Qilian Mountains\n\nThe Qilian Mountains also known as Richthofen Range, (Tsilien Mountains; ; Mongghul: Chileb), together with the Altyn-Tagh (Altun Shan) also known as Nan Shan (, literally \"Southern Mountains\"), as it is to the south of Hexi Corridor, is a northern outlier of the Kunlun Mountains, forming the border between Qinghai and the Gansu provinces of northern China.\n\nThe range stretches from the south of Dunhuang some 800 km to the southeast, forming the northeastern escarpment of the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau and the southwestern border of the Hexi Corridor.\n\nThe eponymous Qilian Shan peak, situated some 60 km south of Jiuquan, at , rises to 5,547 m. It is the highest peak of the main range, but there are two higher peaks further south, Kangze'gyai at with 5,808 m and\nQaidam Shan peak at with 5,759 m. Other major peaks include Gangshiqia Peak in the east.\n\nThe Nan Shan range continues to the west as Yema Shan (5,250 m) and Altun Shan (Altyn Tagh) (5,798 m). To the east, it passes north of Qinghai Lake, terminating as Daban Shan and Xinglong Shan near Lanzhou, with Maoma Shan peak (4,070 m) an eastern outlier. Sections of the Ming Dynasty's Great Wall pass along its northern slopes, and south of northern outlier Longshou Shan (3,616 m).\n\nThe Qilian mountains are the source of numerous, mostly small, rivers and creeks that flow northeast, enabling irrigated agriculture in the Hexi Corridor (Gansu Corridor) communities, and eventually disappearing in the Alashan Desert. The best known of these streams is the Ejin (Heihe) River. The region has many glaciers, the largest of which is the Touming Mengke. These glaciers have undergone acceleration in their melting in recent decades.\n\nThe characteristic ecosystem of the Qilian Mountains has been described by the World Wildlife Fund as the Qilian Mountains conifer forests.\n\nBiandukou (扁都口), with an altitude of over 3500 m, is a pass in the Qilian Mountains. It links Minle County of Gansu in the north and Qilian County of Qinghai in the south.\n\nThe \"Shiji\" mentions the \"Qilian mountains\" together with Dunhuang in relation to the homeland of the Yuezhi. This \"Qilian\" however has been suggested to be the mountains now known as Tian Shan, 1,500 km to the west. \"Dunhuang\" has also been argued to b the Dunhong mountain. \"Qilian\" () is said to be as a Xiongnu word meaning \"sky\" () according to Yan Shigu, a Tang Dynasty commentator on the \"Hanshu\".\n\nThe Tuyuhun were based around the Qilian mountains.\n\nThe mountain range was formerly known in European languages as Richthofen Range after Ferdinand von Richthofen, who was the Red Baron's explorer-geologist uncle.\n\nThe mountain range gives its name to Qinghai's Qilian County.\n\n"}
{"id": "250265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=250265", "title": "Rhumb line", "text": "Rhumb line\n\nIn navigation, a rhumb line, rhumb, or loxodrome is an arc crossing all meridians of longitude at the same angle, that is, a path with constant bearing as measured relative to true or magnetic north.\n\nThe effect of following a rhumb line course on the surface of a globe was first discussed by the Portuguese mathematician Pedro Nunes in 1537, in his \"Treatise in Defense of the Marine Chart\", with further mathematical development by Thomas Harriot in the 1590s.\n\nA rhumb line can be contrasted with a great circle, which is the path of shortest distance between two points on the surface of a sphere. On a great circle, the bearing to the destination point does not remain constant. If one were to drive a car along a great circle one would hold the steering wheel fixed, but to follow a rhumb line one would have to turn the wheel, turning it more sharply as the poles are approached. In other words, a great circle is locally \"straight\" with zero geodesic curvature, whereas a rhumb line has non-zero geodesic curvature.\n\nMeridians of longitude and parallels of latitude provide special cases of the rhumb line, where their angles of intersection are respectively 0° and 90°. On a north–south passage the rhumb line course coincides with a great circle, as it does on an east–west passage along the equator.\n\nOn a Mercator projection map, any rhumb line is a straight line; a rhumb line can be drawn on such a map between any two points on Earth without going off the edge of the map. But theoretically a loxodrome can extend beyond the right edge of the map, where it then continues at the left edge with the same slope (assuming that the map covers exactly 360 degrees of longitude).\n\nRhumb lines which cut meridians at oblique angles are loxodromic curves which spiral towards the poles. On a Mercator projection the north and south poles occur at infinity and are therefore never shown. However the full loxodrome on an infinitely high map would consist of infinitely many line segments between the two edges. On a stereographic projection map, a loxodrome is an equiangular spiral whose center is the north or south pole.\n\nAll loxodromes spiral from one pole to the other. Near the poles, they are close to being logarithmic spirals (which they are exactly on a stereographic projection, see below), so they wind around each pole an infinite number of times but reach the pole in a finite distance. The pole-to-pole length of a loxodrome is (assuming a perfect sphere) the length of the meridian divided by the cosine of the bearing away from true north. Loxodromes are not defined at the poles.\n\nThe word \"loxodrome\" comes from Ancient Greek λοξός \"loxós\": \"oblique\" + δρόμος \"drómos\": \"running\" (from δραμεῖν \"drameîn\": \"to run\"). The word \"rhumb\" may come from Spanish or Portuguese \"rumbo/rumo\" (\"course\" or \"direction\") and Greek ῥόμβος \"rhómbos\", from \"rhémbein\".\n\nThe 1878 edition of \"The Globe Encyclopaedia of Universal Information\" describes a \"loxodrome line\" as:\n\nLoxodrom′ic Line is a curve which cuts every member of a system of lines of curvature of a given surface at the same angle. A ship sailing towards the same point of the compass describes such a line which cuts all the meridians at the same angle. In Mercator's Projection (q.v.) the Loxodromic lines are evidently straight.\n\nA misunderstanding could arise because the term “rhumb” had no precise meaning when it came into use. It applied equally well to the windrose lines as it did to loxodromes because the term only applied “locally” and only meant whatever a sailor did in order to sail with constant bearing, with all the imprecision that that implies. Therefore, “rhumb” was applicable to the straight lines on portolans when portolans were in use, as well as always applicable to straight lines on Mercator charts. For short distances portolan “rhumbs” do not meaningfully differ from Mercator rhumbs, but these days “rhumb” is synonymous with the mathematically precise “loxodrome” because it has been made synonymous retrospectively.\n\nAs Leo Bagrow states: \"..the word ('Rhumbline') is wrongly applied to the sea-charts of this period, since a loxodrome gives an accurate course only when the chart is drawn on a suitable projection. Cartometric investigation has revealed that no projection was used in the early charts, for which we therefore retain the name 'portolan'.\"\n\nFor a sphere of radius 1, the azimuthal and polar angles and (defined here to correspond to latitude) and Cartesian unit vectors , , and can be used to write the radius vector as\n\nOrthogonal unit vectors in the azimuthal and polar directions of the sphere can be written\n\nwhich have the scalar products\n\nThe unit vector\nhas a constant angle with the unit vector for any and , since their scalar product is\n\nA loxodrome is defined as a curve on the sphere that has a constant angle with all meridians of longitude, and therefore must be parallel to the unit vector . As a result, a differential length along the loxodrome will produce a differential displacement\n\nWith this relationship between and , the radius vector becomes a parametric function of one variable, tracing out the loxodrome on the sphere:\n\nwhere\n\nis the isometric latitude. Geocentric and isometric latitudes are related to each other through the Gudermannian function,\n\nIn the Rhumb line, as the geocentric latitude tends to the poles, , , the isometric latitude , and longitude increases without bound, circling the sphere ever so fast in a spiral towards the pole, while tending to a finite total arc length Δ given by\n\nLet be the longitude of a point on the sphere, and its latitude. Then, if we define the map coordinates of the Mercator projection as\na loxodrome with constant bearing from true north will be a straight line, since (using the expression in the previous section)\nwith a slope\n\nFinding the loxodromes between two given points can be done graphically on a Mercator map, or by solving a nonlinear system of two equations in the two unknowns and . There are infinitely many solutions; the shortest one is that which covers the actual longitude difference, i.e. does not make extra revolutions, and does not go \"the wrong way around\".\n\nThe distance between two points Δ, measured along a loxodrome, is simply the absolute value of the secant of the bearing (azimuth) times the north–south distance (except for circles of latitude for which the distance becomes infinite):\n\nwhere is one of the earth average radii.\nIts use in navigation is directly linked to the style, or \"projection\" of certain navigational maps. A rhumb line appears as a straight line on a Mercator projection map.\n\nThe name is derived from Old French or Spanish respectively: \"rumb\" or \"rumbo\", a line on the chart which intersects all meridians at the same angle. On a plane surface this would be the shortest distance between two points. Over the Earth's surface at low latitudes or over short distances it can be used for plotting the course of a vehicle, aircraft or ship. Over longer distances and/or at higher latitudes the great circle route is significantly shorter than the rhumb line between the same two points. However the inconvenience of having to continuously change bearings while travelling a great circle route makes \"rhumb line navigation\" appealing in certain instances.\n\nThe point can be illustrated with an East-West passage over 90 degrees of longitude along the equator, for which the great circle and rhumb line distances are the same at . At 20 degrees north the great circle distance is while the rhumb line distance is , about percent further. But at 60 degrees north the great circle distance is while the rhumb line is , a difference of percent. A more extreme case is the air route between New York City and Hong Kong, for which the rhumb line path is . The great circle route over the North Pole is , or hours less flying time at a typical cruising speed.\n\nSome old maps in the Mercator projection have grids composed of lines of latitude and longitude but also show rhumb lines which are oriented directly towards north, at a right angle from the north, or at some angle from the north which is some simple rational fraction of a right angle. These rhumb lines would be drawn so that they would converge at certain points of the map: lines going in every direction would converge at each of these points. See compass rose. Such maps would necessarily have been in the Mercator projection therefore not all old maps would have been capable of showing rhumb line markings.\n\nThe radial lines on a compass rose are also called \"rhumbs\". The expression \"sailing on a rhumb\" was used in the 16th–19th centuries to indicate a particular compass heading.\n\nEarly navigators in the time before the invention of the marine chronometer used rhumb line courses on long ocean passages, because the ship's latitude could be established accurately by sightings of the Sun or stars but there was no accurate way to determine the longitude. The ship would sail north or south until the latitude of the destination was reached, and the ship would then sail east or west along the rhumb line (actually a parallel, which is a special case of the rhumb line), maintaining a constant latitude and recording regular estimates of the distance sailed until evidence of land was sighted.\n\nThe surface of the Earth can be understood mathematically as a Riemann sphere, that is, as a projection of the sphere to the complex plane. In this case, loxodromes can be understood as certain classes of Möbius transformations.\n\nThe formulation above can be easily extended to a spheroid. The course of the rhumb line is found merely by using the ellipsoidal isometric latitude. Similarly distances are found by multiplying the ellipsoidal meridian arc length by the secant of the azimuth.\n\n\n\"Note: this article incorporates text from the 1878 edition of The Globe Encyclopaedia of Universal Information, a work in the public domain\"\n\n"}
{"id": "56099109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56099109", "title": "Santa Margarida, São Tomé and Príncipe", "text": "Santa Margarida, São Tomé and Príncipe\n\nSanta Margarida is a village in the mid-north of São Tomé Island in São Tomé and Príncipe, part of the Mé-Zóchi District. Its population is 384 (2012 census). It lies 1 km southwest of Madalena and 4 km northwest of Trindade.\n"}
{"id": "18919002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18919002", "title": "Spitakşen, Khojavend", "text": "Spitakşen, Khojavend\n\nSpitakşen (, meaning \"white village\") (also, Spitakshen) is a village in the Khojavend Rayon of Azerbaijan.\n"}
{"id": "3230344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3230344", "title": "St. George's Harbour, Bermuda", "text": "St. George's Harbour, Bermuda\n\nSt. George's Harbour is a natural harbour in the north of Bermuda. It serves as the port for the town of St. George's, located on St. George's Island, to its north. To its south is St. David's Island. The harbour and both islands lie within St. George's Parish. It was for two centuries the primary harbour of the British Overseas Territory.\n\nThe harbour separates St. George's Island in the north and west from St. David's Island in the south and east. Several other islands lie to the south and east, closing the harbour from the open sea to the east, and separating it from Smith's Sound, to the South. It is open to the Atlantic Ocean at Gunner Bay in the northeast, where its mouth is guarded by numerous islands, notably Smith's and Paget Islands. The waters of Bermuda are also protected by coral reef, which can be perilous to sailors. Several other islands lie within the harbour, notably the historically important Ordnance Island. In the south, a long channel, Ferry Reach, links the harbour with another opening to the Atlantic Ocean and the picturesque Castle Harbour.\n\nThe original channel used by shipping to access the harbour lies to the south of Paget Island. This was replaced a century ago by dredging out the passage to the north of Paget Island. At the time, the dredging of that passage had been necessary for St. George's to remain a viable port as steam replaced sail (permission for the dredging had to be granted by the Secretary of State for Defence as it would have enabled easier landing of an invading force. approval for this project, and for American investment into the Princess Hotel, was withheld 'til the Parliament of Bermuda agreed to raise a part-time reserve for the British army units in Bermuda). Most freight, today, is offloaded at Hamilton, but St. George's is still used for offloading of gravel and other consignments, by cruise ships visiting the Old Town, and it is the only port of entry for yachts, which must clear H.M. Customs and Bermuda Immigration at Ordnance Island before visiting other parts of the archipelago.\n\nTo enter St. George's Harbour, sailors must fly a yellow quarantine flag, and navigate the ship towards the Customs dock. Boaters who don't bring their vessel through customs will be fined. Before passing through Bermuda customs, visitors must declare all medicines, and cannot bring fruits or vegetables into the country. Animals are only allowed to be brought to Bermuda if they have proof of health and a permit from the Bermuda Department of Environmental Protection.\nThe shore of St. George's Harbour was the site of the first settlements in Bermuda, which occurred in the early 17th century. The crew and passengers of the Sea Venture, driven onto the reefs off St. Catherine's Point in 1609, stayed on St. George's Island for nearly a year. When most departed, two men remained behind on Smith's Island, where a third rejoined them, later. When the first intentional settlers arrived from England in 1609, they settled very briefly on St. David's Island, before moving across the Harbour to create St. George's, the oldest continuously-inhabited English settlement in the New World. The harbour was well fortified during this time, as can still be seen in the several period forts located nearby.\n\nThe 19th Century saw the establishment of a Royal Naval base in Bermuda. Initially this was in St. George's Harbour, with the Royal Navy operating from facilities in Convict Bay (so called due to the prison hulks moored there) and within St. George's town. This build up began in 1795, but a decade later, the Royal Navy was actively developing the dockyard on Ireland Island, and it soon withdrew from St. George's completely. The buildup of the dockyard at the West End of the archipelago still resulted in considerable defence infrastructure around St. George's, at the East End, however, as this was the gateway through the surrounding reefs to all of Bermuda. In addition to the 17th and 18th century forts built by the militia, there are many 19th and 20th Century forts and batteries built by the regular British Army on the islands surrounding the harbour, for which Ordnance Island was the primary ammunition depot. The various surviving East End forts, batteries and other military structures, together with the old capital, have been declared by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization as a World Heritage Site, the .\n"}
{"id": "37893609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37893609", "title": "The Paterson Building", "text": "The Paterson Building\n\nThe Paterson Building is a historic office building located at 653 South Saginaw Street and Third Street in Downtown Flint, Michigan. It was built by William A. Paterson of the Paterson Automotive Company in 1931, during the birth of the auto industry. The Paterson building has been owned by Thomas W. Collison Jr. of the Collison Family for close to 30 years. It has three beautiful floors with a full garage in the basement level. It provides heated valet parking for its tenants. The building consists of mainly law and medical offices. There are also retail stores on the Third Street side. Peace Barn is a vintage shop known for hand made flower crowns, vintage and shabby chic decor and vinyl records. The Beauty Box Boutique offers high end fashion and one of a kind hand made gifts. The building is rich in Art Deco, which has been maintained throughout the interior and exterior of the building.\n"}
{"id": "2926166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2926166", "title": "Tianmu, Shilin District", "text": "Tianmu, Shilin District\n\nTianmu () is a neighborhood located in Shilin, Taipei City, Taiwan. Located on the northern border of Shilin District, Tianmu borders the neighboring district of Beitou and Yangmingshan National Park.\n\nTianmu is best known as an enclave for Taiwan's US expatriate community. From the mid 1950s to 1979, before the US broke formal ties with Taiwan, large portions of the US Armed Forces serving under MAAG and their families stationed in Taiwan lived in Tianmu. Middle- to lower-ranking US servicemen resided within present-day Tianmu, while higher-ranking officers resided in neighboring Yangmingshan. Other than military housing and recreation, significant portions of modern-day Tianmu were designated for housing developments created for USAID workers and foreign civilians. As of the 1980s relatively few of these Western style developments and buildings remain as they have been replaced by multi-storey apartment blocks. The road layout in Tianmu still aligns to the former Western style neighborhoods.\n\nWith the withdrawal of the US military in 1979, the Bank of Taiwan re-purposed the former sites by leasing them to Taipei American School and Taipei Japanese School. With the further creation of Taipei European School, Tianmu has continued to attract foreign residents. In addition, several of the countries which retain diplomatic relationships with Taiwan have their foreign embassies and consulates located in Tianmu.\n\nTianmu is home to Taiwan's first branch of Mister Donut, a Shin Kong Mitsukoshi department store, a Sogo department store, and a Dayeh Takashimaya department store. It also hosts a number of Western restaurants, as well as specialty stores which cater to the expat community.\n\nTianmu Baseball Stadium, which replaces the old Taipei Municipal Baseball Stadium, is located in Tianmu. Right next to the baseball stadium is Tianmu Sports Park. The public facility has six tennis courts, a skating rink, a few children's playgrounds, an open-air theater, four basketball courts, a jogging track, a biking path, and a multi-purpose lawn.\n\nElementary School\n\nJunior High School\n\nUniversity\n\nSpecial Education\n\nForeign Schools\n\nThere is a special Embassy District in Tianmu where many Embassies and Representative Offices are located.<br>\n\n"}
{"id": "54759469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54759469", "title": "Timeline of Asmara", "text": "Timeline of Asmara\n\nThe following is a of the history of the city of Asmara, Eritrea. Asmara was under Italian colonial rule from 1889 until 1941.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27958877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27958877", "title": "Trinity Hill", "text": "Trinity Hill\n\nThe Trinity Hill is the oldest surviving district of Minsk, although it's not part of the downtown, rather a suburb, hence another name, Trinity Suburb (\"Trajeckaje pradmiescie\"). The historic neighbourhood sprawls along the left bank of the Svislach River in the southeastern part of the modern city. The Belarusian 5-ruble bill featured an image of Trayetskaye Pradmestsye.\n\nThere are several hypotheses about the name. The most common relates it to the first Roman Catholic church in Minsk, the , which was, according to a legend, founded by Władysław II Jagiełło. Another suggestion is Trinity Convent, of which little remains. \n\nThe Trinity and Assumption church, Trinity Convent, the Ascension Monastery, the church of Sts. Boris and Gleb, and a synagogue whiche existed there, have disappeared. Today it is an area of 19th-century housing, mostly restored after the ravages of World War II. Modern buildings include the national opera and ballet theatre and the Island of Tears memorial. \n"}
{"id": "51156277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51156277", "title": "U.S. Bank Building (Sioux Falls)", "text": "U.S. Bank Building (Sioux Falls)\n\nThe U.S. Bank Building is a low-rise U.S. Bancorp office building located in Sioux Falls, South Dakota. At 128.93 feet, it is the 7th tallest building in Sioux Falls, and the 9th tallest in the state of South Dakota.\n"}
{"id": "56521348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56521348", "title": "Vater telefoniert mit den Fliegen", "text": "Vater telefoniert mit den Fliegen\n\nVater telefoniert mit den Fliegen (\"Father's on the Phone with the Flies\") is a collection of collage poems by Nobel Prize-winning writer Herta Müller first published in 2012. The 191 collages are divided between five sections. As with most of Müller's work, one of the collection's underlying themes is political, stemming from her experience living under the dictatorship of Nicolae Ceaușescu in Communist Romania.\n\nA selection of 73 of the poems was published in English in 2018, translated by Thomas Cooper, alongside the German originals.\n"}
