{"id": "47413353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47413353", "title": "1986 in Sri Lanka", "text": "1986 in Sri Lanka\n\nThe following lists events that happened during 1986 in Sri Lanka.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4302669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4302669", "title": "Aggañña Sutta", "text": "Aggañña Sutta\n\nAggañña Sutta is the 27th Sutta of the Digha Nikaya collection. The sutta describes a discourse imparted by the Buddha to two brahmins, Bharadvaja and Vasettha, who left their family and caste to become monks. The two brahmins are insulted and maligned by their own caste for their intention to become members of the Sangha. The Buddha explains that caste and lineage cannot be compared to the achievement of morality practice and the Dhamma, as anyone from the four castes can become a monk and reach the state of Arahant. Then, he explains about the beginning of the Earth and the birth of social order and its structure, including the castes. The Buddha emphasizes the message of universality in the Dhamma and how the Dhamma is the best of all things.\n\nThe Sutta begins when the Buddha is staying in Savatthi, in the temple donated by Visakkha, the mother of Migara. At that time, two brahmins, Bharadvaja and Vasettha, are training with the monks (bhikkhu) and aim to be a member of the Sangha. As usual in the evening, the Buddha rises from his meditation and strolls in the open yard near his dwelling. Vasettha sees his Teacher strolling, tells his friend, Bharadvaja, and suggests that they meet the Buddha to see if they can hear a Dhamma exposition from the Buddha.\n\nThey both approach the Buddha and after some formal proprieties, the Buddha asks the two if they received insults and denigration when they left their caste and layman's life in order to join the order.\nVasettha and Bharadvaja answer that they did receive a 'flood of insults'. They say that the other Brahmins maintain that the Brahmin caste is the best, as the Brahmins are of high social status and authority, pure-bred, have radiant complexions, and are born from the mouth of the God Brahma, unlike the other lower castes. So, by the opinion of the other Brahmins, how can Vasettha and Bharadvaja leave this good caste and status, thus joining together with fraudulent ascetics with shaven heads from other castes, lower in status as they are born from the feet of Brahma?\n\nTo this remark, the Buddha tells them that the Brahmins have indeed forgotten about their past if they said such things. The fact is that the women in the Brahmin caste can get pregnant, give birth, and take care of their children. But the Brahmins still say that they are born from the Mouth of the God Brahma and other (castes) are born from Brahma's feet. Thus, the Brahmin's words are untrue. The Buddha said that the Brahmins are not speaking truthfully and they will reap a bad result from their own deeds.\n\nThe Buddha then elaborates that if any of the caste does the following deeds: killing, taking anything that is not given, take part in sexual misconduct, lying, slandering, speaking rough words or nonsense, greedy, cruel, and practise wrong beliefs (miccha ditthi); people would still see that they do negative deeds and therefore are not worthy of respect. They will even get into trouble from their own deeds, whatever their caste (Brahmin, Khattiya, Vessa, and Sudda) might be.\n\nWhile those who refrain from killing, taking anything that is not given, engage in sexual misconduct, lying, slandering, speaking rough words or nonsense, being greedy, cruel, and practising wrong beliefs (miccha ditthi), will be seen by people as positive and will earn respect from the people and the wise ones. They would be profiting from their deeds, no matter what their caste might be.\n\nLogically, as the four castes can do either negative (demerit) or positive (merit) deeds, so will the wise reject the statement that only the Brahmins are the best caste. Why? Because anyone from the four castes, if they left the worldly affairs and became a monk, and due to their discipline and struggle, they become arahant, people who conquered their mind's stains, have done whatever what must be done, have been relieved from the burden, have broken the bondage of birth, achieved freedom, freed due to achieved knowledge, then he is the best among others based on Truth (Dhamma).\n\nThe Buddha says, \"Dhamma is the best thing for people\nIn this life and the next as well.\"\n\nFurther, the Buddha proves that Dhamma is indeed the best thing of all things in life. He takes the example of King Pasenadi of the Kosala Kingdom, who has now conquered the Sakyans. The Sakyans revere, praise, and serve him with respect.\n\nBut, towards the Buddha, who came from the Sakyan people, King Pasenadi reveres, praises, and serves the Buddha with utmost respect. Even the monarch thinks like this: \"The Shramana Gotama had perfect birth, while I am not perfect. The Shramana Gotama is mighty, while I am weak. The Shramana Gotama inspired awe and respect, while I do not. The Shramana Gotama is vastly influential and charming, while I only possess small influence.\" As even the King respects Dhamma, reveres Dhamma, and obeys Dhamma, therefore he bows and praises the Tathagatha.\n\nThe Buddha then advises Vasettha that whoever has strong, deep-rooted, and established belief in the Tathagatha, he can declare that he is the child of Bhagavan, born from the mouth of Dhamma, created from Dhamma, and the heir of Dhamma. Therefore, the titles of the Tathagatha are the Body of Dhamma, the Body of Brahma, the Manifestation of Dhamma, and the Manifestation of Brahma.\n\nIn the second part of the Sutta, the Buddha tells the story of how human beings came to dwell on Earth.\n\nThe Buddha said that sooner or later, after a very long time, there would come a time when the world shrinks. At a time of contraction, beings are mostly born in the Abhassara Brahma\nworld. And there they dwell, mind-made, feeding on delight, self-luminous, moving\nthrough the air, glorious — and they stay like that for a very long time. But sooner or\nlater, after a very long period, this world begins to expand again. At a time of expansion,\nthe beings from the Abhassara Brahma world, having died from there, are\nmostly reborn in this world. Here they dwell, mind-made, feeding on delight, self-luminous,\nmoving through the air, glorious — and they stay like that for a very long time.\n\nThey floated above and around the Earth. At this time, there were not yet seen the Moon and the Sun, there were not yet Night and Day, there were not yet names and identity or female or male. The creatures were only known as creatures.\n\n\"At that period, Vasettha, there was just one mass of water, and all was darkness, blinding darkness... And sooner or later, after a very long period of time, savory earth spread itself over the waters where those beings were. It looked just like the skin that forms itself over hot milk as it cools. It was endowed with color, smell, and taste. It was the color of fine ghee or heated butter and it was very sweet, like pure wild honey\" (1)\n\nSome of the creatures of light (the Abbhasaras) who had curiosity and a greedy nature began to dive and taste the savory Earth's substance. At that moment, the creature found out that it tasted so delicious. Thus, greed started to seep in and it ate the substance voraciously, greedily, also calling its comrades (who were flying above and on earth) to join in the feast. Not long afterwards, the creatures began to eat greedily, and due to the huge amount of the mud substance they could feed on it for a very long time.\n\nAs they ate and ate, their luminous body began to be coated by the mud substance, formed a coarser body, then suddenly, the sun and moon were seen, so were the stars, and also Night and Day began on Earth. The logical explanation of this was that the creatures were the self-illuminating, so blinding and luminous that they didn't notice the Sun. The Earth was covered in their light. So, when the materialization took place, the light faded inside their newly conceived 'body' of mud and thus the night and day became apparent to them. Then, as the night and day became apparent, seasons and years also appeared.\n\nTheir body was still coarse and roughly shaped. Thus, after a very long time, the mud-like substance began to be exhausted. Then, mushroom-like plants began to grow so fast that they replaced the mud-like ocean. The creatures began to devour them as well, and they also found it delicious, like sweet honey and milk. Their body hardened more and details began to turn finer.\n\nAfter another very long time, the mushrooms also began to be exhausted, replaced by cassava or turnip-like plants. They also began to devour them night and day, and thus they began to notice differences amongst them. As the changes of their bodies varied between each other, the concept of difference arose. The concepts of the beautiful and the ugly were born. The beautiful scorns the ugly and they became arrogant because of their appearance.\n\nThen, after the turnips, the earth was grown with rice plants. The first rice plants were without husk and kernels. The sweet and honey-like rice flourished seeds abundantly. The people consumed them for a very long time. But there are people who became greedy and lazy. They took more rice than they needed for one day's meals. They began to take two, four, eight, and sixteen days' of rice reserves as they were too lazy to take rice everyday. Owing to this, many other creatures began to store and hoard the rice. The generation time for rice plants became slower and slower. Usually, it took only one night for the plant to grow and be ready to be consumed, but by the karmic power the plant began to grow more and more slowly. Also the rice grew in kernels and husks, scattered, which the creatures must work, nurse, maintain, harvest, and cook in order to obtain the white rice.\n\nBy this time, the body of the creatures had become finely evolved. There was already the distinction between male and female. The man became preoccupied with women and vice versa. Then, as they were deeply attracted to each another, passion and desire was aroused, and they engaged in sexual relationships. The people who saw a couple engaged in sexual activity scolded them, and usually the couple were forbidden from entering the village for a certain period of time. Owing to this, the indulgent couples built closed dwellings where they indulged in sexual activity.\n\nIn the third part, the Buddha explained about the origin of Castes, their titles, and their order in the society system which were still rigidly effective in Buddha's time.\n\nThe rice plants, as mentioned earlier, began to grow in separate plots and people began to divide lands and tend each other's cluster of rice fief. They became preoccupied in tending their own field. Then, as the evil and greed were aroused, there were people who begin stealing others' crops. At first, the others only warned the culprit and the culprit promised that he would never repeat it again. But when it was repeated several times, the people began punishing him with fist, stones, and then sticks. That is the origin of punishment forms.\nThen, people began to think that they were too busy to heed every crime and abuse that happened in their society. They grieved on the rising of evil amongst their people. But most of their time had already been invested in tending their fief. So, they appointed someone to rectify what is right and what is wrong, give warnings to those who need it, give punishment to those who deserve it, and in return, they will give him a share of their rice.\nSo, they went to the fairest, ablest, most likeable, and most intelligent person and appointed him to do the judging and passing out sentences on the reward of a share of rice. The appointed person thus agreed and the people bestowed upon him the title : 'Maha Sammata' meaning: The People's Choice. Then, they bestowed also the second title: 'Khattiya' meaning the 'Lord of the Rice Field', and finally the third title: 'Raja' which means 'Who gladdens people with Dhamma (or Truth)'.\nThis order was created by the people's wish and need, based on the Dhamma and not from others. The Buddha stated again that Dhamma is indeed the best of all things.\n\nThen, amongst the people, some of them begin to think like this: \"Evil deeds have risen amongst us, such as: theft, lies, murders, sexual abuses, punishment, and banishment. Now let us set aside evil, unuseful, and impolite things.\" The word Brahmins came, as it meant: \"They who put aside Evil and unwholesome things\" (1).\nThey set up retreats and huts in the forests and meditated there. They came to the city at morning and evening only to gather food and after finishing gathering food, they returned to their huts and meditations. People noticed this and 'Those who meditated' were called 'Jhayanti' or 'Jhayaka'.\n\nThere are other people, who can't meditate or dwell in huts in the forest. So, they settled in the cities, did not meditate, but compiled books. The people called them 'Ajjhayaka' which meant 'They who don't meditate'. At first the Ajjhayaka were viewed lower than Jhayaka but in the Buddha's time, the Ajjhayaka had been viewed higher in status than the Jhayakas.\n\nAmong the people who had settled and had family, some began to adopt various trades.\n\nThe remainder of these people preferred the work of hunting. The Sudda caste came from the word 'Sudda' which means: 'They Are Base Who Live By The Chase' [1].\n\nAll of the castes, from Brahmin, Khattiya, Vessa, and Sudda originated from these people, and not from others; in accordance to the Dhamma and not by others.\n\nBut from the four clans, there were people who were not satisfied with their living, left their home and became celibate ascetics. These are the origin of the fifth caste formed from all the four castes' people who left their lay life and became an ascetic.\n\nThe Buddha then concluded his discourse to Vasettha and Bharadvaja:\n(Due to the governance of Dhamma which became the root of all castes and people) anyone, from any the caste, who did demerit and wrongdoings, lived a bad life of speech, thoughts, views, and wrongdoings, they would end up after their death, in the realm of sufferings, hell, loss, and torture.\n\nBut anyone, from any caste, who did merit and good deeds, lived a good life of speech, thoughts, and deeds; had the right view, after their death, they would end in the realm of happiness and heaven.\n\nAnyone, from any caste, who did both merit and demerit, lived a good and bad life of speech, thoughts, and deeds; had either a right or a bad view, after their death, they could end in the realm of suffering or the realm of joy.\n\nAnyone, from any caste, who lived a life of disciplined deeds, speeches, thoughts, who had trained and developed himself in the seven factors of Enlightenment, then he would attain the eradication from the (stains/dust/dirt/filth) of mind in this current life.\n\nAnyone, from four castes, who became a bhikku (Monk), arahant, who had eradicated stains of Mind, had done what must be done, had relieved himself from burden, who had attained freedom, who had broken the bondage of birth, who had been freed due to knowledge; then they would be declared as the best from all of them, in accordance to the Truth (Dharma) and not from the basis of not Truth (adhamma).\n\nThe Buddha quoted, \"Dharma is the best thing for people\nIn this life and the next as well.\"\n\nThe Buddha quoted the verses of Brahma Sandakumara:\n\"\"The Khattiya is the best among those who maintain their lineage;\nHe with knowledge and conduct is best of gods and men.\"\"\nthen, the Buddha asserted that the verse is indeed true, according to the Dhamma, profitable, and true.\n\n\"The Khattiya’s best among those who value clan;\nHe with knowledge and conduct is best of gods and men.\"\"\n\nThus the discourse ended with Vasettha and Bharadvaja rejoicing in hearing the words of Buddha.\n\nWhile the story of the world's beginning is considered a myth, on the other hand, the Buddhist doctrine requires a constant sceptical approach, where one must see and prove it before one believes it (ehipassiko). However, the profound insight of the Buddha in two major fields: science (cosmology) and social structure's origin indeed was revolutionary in his era.\n\nOn the science part, Buddha implied the theory of the Evolution of the Universe, where it is said to shrink and then expand in repeated cycles.\n\nWhile on the social science part, the Buddha's words implied the equality of origin in the human race, whether by their sex, appearance, or by other categories which were founded later based on physiological differences. Buddha also emphasized that the social structure is formed voluntarily, based on righteousness and necessity, not based on Divine command as some theories stated.\n\nThe Monarchy is also formed voluntarily, and the people elect the most righteous and capable person, which implied the Democracy concept. The Monarch accepts a 'share of rice' as his reward to rectify the social order, which is the origin of voluntary reward which evolves into the taxation concept. However, the Buddha states that the Monarch is regarded worthy not because of his divine right but due to his righteousness in deeds. [2]\n\nThe Buddha's message was clear, however, that the best thing in the world is Truth (Dhamma) and everything is created, measured, and valued based on Truth and not from something other.\n\nAccording to Richard Gombrich, the sutta gives strong evidence that it was conceived entirely as a satire of brahminical claims regarding the divine nature of the caste system, showing that it is nothing but a human convention. According to Gombrich, the Buddha satirizes the Vedic \"Hymn of the Cosmic Man\" and etymologizes \"reciter of the Veda\" so as to make it mean \"non-meditator\" instead. Not all scholars agree with Gombrich's interpretation and his view is not unanimous.\n\nAmong those who disagree is Suwanda H J Sugunasiri, a Canadian Buddhist scholar, who most recently has presented a novel interpretation of the Sutta.Rejecting the view that the Sutta is a ‘satire’ (Gombrich) or ‘good humoured irony’ (Collins) [1], he shows how “the Discourse is a historically and scientifically accurate characterization of the cyclical cosmic process” [2]. He compares the stages of cosmic, vegetation, human and linguistic evolution as indicated by the Buddha with those in western theory, beginning with 13.5 billion years ago of the Big Bang and ending with 150,000 years when ‘anatomically modern humans’ appear. The Big Bang, in this interpretation, marks not the beginning of the Evolutionary phase but the ending of the earlier Devolutionary phase, when there appears seven suns (as in a different Sutta), symbolic of intense heat. A critical point in Sugunasiri’s reconstruction of the Buddha’s universe is the novel take on the Abhassaras - as photons, translating the term Abhassara literally as ‘hither-come-shining arrow’ (ā + bhas + sara). In an expanded study [3], Sugunasiri points to two other Suttas (Brahmajala and Patika) in which the Buddha presents dimensions of the cosmic process. He also shows how the Buddha cuts through the Vedic myth of creation referred to in Gombrich.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1973", "title": "American Revolution", "text": "American Revolution\n\nThe American Revolution was a colonial revolt that took place between 1765 and 1783. The American Patriots in the Thirteen Colonies won independence from Great Britain, becoming the United States of America. They defeated the British in the American Revolutionary War (1775–1783) in alliance with France and others.\n\nMembers of American colonial society argued the position of \"no taxation without representation\", starting with the Stamp Act Congress in 1765. They rejected the authority of the British Parliament to tax them because they lacked members in that governing body. Protests steadily escalated to the Boston Massacre in 1770 and the burning of the \"Gaspee\" in Rhode Island in 1772, followed by the Boston Tea Party in December 1773, during which Patriots destroyed a consignment of taxed tea. The British responded by closing Boston Harbor, then followed with a series of legislative acts which effectively rescinded Massachusetts Bay Colony's rights of self-government and caused the other colonies to rally behind Massachusetts. In late 1774, the Patriots set up their own alternative government to better coordinate their resistance efforts against Great Britain; other colonists preferred to remain aligned to the Crown and were known as \"Loyalists\" or \"Tories\".\n\nTensions erupted into battle between Patriot militia and British regulars when the king's army attempted to capture and destroy Colonial military supplies at Lexington and Concord on April 19, 1775. The conflict then developed into a global war, during which the Patriots (and later their French, Spanish, and Dutch allies) fought the British and Loyalists in what became known as the American Revolutionary War (1775–83). Each of the thirteen colonies formed a Provincial Congress that assumed power from the old colonial governments and suppressed Loyalism, and from there they built a Continental Army under the leadership of General George Washington. The Continental Congress determined King George's rule to be tyrannical and infringing the colonists' rights as Englishmen, and they declared the colonies free and independent states on July 2, 1776. The Patriot leadership professed the political philosophies of liberalism and republicanism to reject monarchy and aristocracy, and they proclaimed that all men are created equal.\n\nThe Continental Army forced the redcoats out of Boston in March 1776, but that summer the British captured and held New York City and its strategic harbor for the duration of the war. The Royal Navy blockaded ports and captured other cities for brief periods, but they failed to defeat Washington's forces. The Patriots unsuccessfully attempted to invade Canada during the winter of 1775–76, but successfully captured a British army at the Battle of Saratoga in October 1777. France now entered the war as an ally of the United States with a large army and navy that threatened Britain itself. The war turned to the American South where the British under the leadership of Charles Cornwallis captured an army at Charleston, South Carolina in early 1780 but failed to enlist enough volunteers from Loyalist civilians to take effective control of the territory. A combined American–French force captured a second British army at Yorktown in the fall of 1781, effectively ending the war. The Treaty of Paris was signed September 3, 1783, formally ending the conflict and confirming the new nation's complete separation from the British Empire. The United States took possession of nearly all the territory east of the Mississippi River and south of the Great Lakes, with the British retaining control of Canada and Spain taking Florida.\n\nAmong the significant results of the revolution was the creation of the United States Constitution, establishing a relatively strong federal national government that included an executive, a national judiciary, and a bicameral Congress that represented states in the Senate and the population in the House of Representatives. The Revolution also resulted in the migration of around 60,000 Loyalists to other British territories, especially British North America (Canada).\n\nAs early as 1651, the English government had sought to regulate trade in the American colonies. On October 9, the Navigation Acts were passed pursuant to a mercantilist policy intended to ensure that trade enriched only Great Britain, and barring trade with foreign nations. Some argue that the economic impact was minimal on the colonists, but the political friction which the acts triggered was more serious, as the merchants most directly affected were most politically active. King Philip's War ended in 1678, and much of it was fought without significant assistance from England. This contributed to the development of a unique identity, separate from that of the British people.\n\nIn the 1680s, King Charles II determined to bring the New England colonies under a more centralized administration in order to regulate trade more effectively. His efforts were fiercely opposed by the colonists, resulting in the abrogation of their colonial charter by the Crown. Charles' successor James II finalized these efforts in 1686, establishing the Dominion of New England. Dominion rule triggered bitter resentment throughout New England; the enforcement of the unpopular Navigation Acts and the curtailing of local democracy angered the colonists. New Englanders were encouraged, however, by a change of government in England that saw James II effectively abdicate, and a populist uprising overthrew Dominion rule on April 18, 1689. Colonial governments reasserted their control in the wake of the revolt, and successive governments made no more attempts to restore the Dominion.\n\nSubsequent English governments continued in their efforts to tax certain goods, passing acts regulating the trade of wool, hats, and molasses. The Molasses Act of 1733 in particular was egregious to the colonists, as a significant part of colonial trade relied on the product. The taxes severely damaged the New England economy, and the taxes were rarely paid, resulting in a surge of smuggling, bribery, and intimidation of customs officials. Colonial wars fought in America were often the source of considerable tension. The British captured the fortress of Louisbourg during the War of the Austrian Succession, but then ceded it back to France in 1748. New England colonists resented their losses of lives, as well as the effort and expenditure involved in subduing the fortress, only to have it returned to their erstwhile enemy.\n\nThe Royal Proclamation of 1763 may also have played a role in the separation of the Thirteen Colonies from England, as colonists wanted to continue migrating west to lands awarded by the Crown for their wartime service. The Proclamation, however, cut them off. The lands west of Quebec and west of a line running along the crest of the Allegheny Mountains became Indian territory, barred to settlement for two years.\n\nThe colonists protested, and the boundary line was adjusted in a series of treaties with the Indians. In 1768, Indians agreed to the Treaty of Fort Stanwix and the Treaty of Hard Labour, followed in 1770 by the Treaty of Lochaber. The treaties opened most of Kentucky and West Virginia to colonial settlement. The new map was drawn up at the Treaty of Fort Stanwix in 1768 which moved the line much farther to the west, from the green line to the red line on the map at right.\n\nIn 1764, Parliament passed the Currency Act to restrain the use of paper money, fearing that otherwise the colonists might evade debt payments. Parliament also passed the Sugar Act, imposing customs duties on a number of articles. That same year, Prime Minister George Grenville proposed direct taxes on the colonies to raise revenue, but he delayed action to see whether the colonies would propose some way to raise the revenue themselves. Parliament finally passed the Stamp Act in March 1765 which imposed direct taxes on the colonies for the first time. All official documents, newspapers, almanacs, and pamphlets were required to have the stamps—even decks of playing cards.\n\nThe colonists did not object that the taxes were high; they were actually low. They objected to the fact that they had no representation in the Parliament, and thus no voice concerning legislation that affected them. Benjamin Franklin testified in Parliament in 1766 that Americans already contributed heavily to the defense of the Empire. He said that local governments had raised, outfitted, and paid 25,000 soldiers to fight France—as many as Britain itself sent—and spent many millions from American treasuries doing so in the French and Indian War alone. London had to deal with 1,500 politically well-connected British Army soldiers. The decision was to keep them on active duty with full pay, but they had to be stationed somewhere. Stationing a standing army in Great Britain during peacetime was politically unacceptable, so the decision was made to station them in America and have the Americans pay them. The soldiers had no military mission; they were not there to defend the colonies because there was no threat to the colonies.\n\nThe Sons of Liberty were formed in 1765. They used public demonstrations, boycott, violence, and threats of violence to ensure that the British tax laws were unenforceable. In Boston, the Sons of Liberty burned the records of the vice admiralty court and looted the home of chief justice Thomas Hutchinson. Several legislatures called for united action, and nine colonies sent delegates to the Stamp Act Congress in New York City in October 1765. Moderates led by John Dickinson drew up a \"Declaration of Rights and Grievances\" stating that taxes passed without representation violated their rights as Englishmen. Colonists emphasized their determination by boycotting imports of British merchandise.\n\nThe Parliament at Westminster saw itself as the supreme lawmaking authority throughout all British possessions and thus entitled to levy any tax without colonial approval. They argued that the colonies were legally British corporations that were completely subordinate to the British parliament and pointed to numerous instances where Parliament had made laws binding on the colonies in the past. They did not see anything in the unwritten British constitution that made taxes special and noted that they had taxed American trade for decades. Parliament insisted that the colonies effectively enjoyed a \"virtual representation\" as most British people did, as only a small minority of the British population elected representatives to Parliament. Americans such as James Otis maintained that the Americans were not in fact virtually represented.\n\nIn London, the Rockingham government came to power (July 1765) and Parliament debated whether to repeal the stamp tax or to send an army to enforce it. Benjamin Franklin made the case for repeal, explaining that the colonies had spent heavily in manpower, money, and blood in defense of the empire in a series of wars against the French and Indians, and that further taxes to pay for those wars were unjust and might bring about a rebellion. Parliament agreed and repealed the tax (February 21, 1766), but insisted in the Declaratory Act of March 1766 that they retained full power to make laws for the colonies \"in all cases whatsoever\". The repeal nonetheless caused widespread celebrations in the colonies.\n\nIn 1767, the Parliament passed the Townshend Acts which placed duties on a number of essential goods, including paper, glass, and tea, and established a Board of Customs in Boston to more rigorously execute trade regulations. The new taxes were enacted on the belief that Americans only objected to internal taxes and not to external taxes such as custom duties. The Americans, however, argued against the constitutionality of the act because its purpose was to raise revenue and not regulate trade. Colonists responded by organizing new boycotts of British goods. These boycotts were less effective, however, as the Townshend goods were widely used.\n\nIn February 1768, the Assembly of Massachusetts Bay issued a circular letter to the other colonies urging them to coordinate resistance. The governor dissolved the assembly when it refused to rescind the letter. Meanwhile, a riot broke out in Boston in June 1768 over the seizure of the sloop \"Liberty\", owned by John Hancock, for alleged smuggling. Customs officials were forced to flee, prompting the British to deploy troops to Boston. A Boston town meeting declared that no obedience was due to parliamentary laws and called for the convening of a convention. A convention assembled but only issued a mild protest before dissolving itself. In January 1769, Parliament responded to the unrest by reactivating the Treason Act 1543 which called for subjects outside the realm to face trials for treason in England. The governor of Massachusetts was instructed to collect evidence of said treason, and the threat caused widespread outrage, though it was not carried out.\n\nOn March 5, 1770, a large crowd gathered around a group of British soldiers. The crowd grew threatening, throwing snowballs, rocks, and debris at them. One soldier was clubbed and fell. There was no order to fire, but the soldiers fired into the crowd anyway. They hit 11 people; three civilians died at the scene of the shooting, and two died after the incident. The event quickly came to be called the Boston Massacre. The soldiers were tried and acquitted (defended by John Adams), but the widespread descriptions soon began to turn colonial sentiment against the British. This, in turn, began a downward spiral in the relationship between Britain and the Province of Massachusetts.\n\nA new ministry under Lord North came to power in 1770, and Parliament withdrew all taxes except the tax on tea, giving up its efforts to raise revenue while maintaining the right to tax. This temporarily resolved the crisis, and the boycott of British goods largely ceased, with only the more radical patriots such as Samuel Adams continuing to agitate.\n\nIn June 1772, American patriots, including John Brown, burned a British warship that had been vigorously enforcing unpopular trade regulations in what became known as the \"Gaspee\" Affair. The affair was investigated for possible treason, but no action was taken.\n\nIn 1772, it became known that the Crown intended to pay fixed salaries to the governors and judges in Massachusetts. Samuel Adams in Boston set about creating new Committees of Correspondence, which linked Patriots in all 13 colonies and eventually provided the framework for a rebel government. Virginia, the largest colony, set up its Committee of Correspondence in early 1773, on which Patrick Henry and Thomas Jefferson served.\n\nA total of about 7000 to 8000 Patriots served on \"Committees of Correspondence\" at the colonial and local levels, comprising most of the leadership in their communities. Loyalists were excluded. The committees became the leaders of the American resistance to British actions, and largely determined the war effort at the state and local level. When the First Continental Congress decided to boycott British products, the colonial and local Committees took charge, examining merchant records and publishing the names of merchants who attempted to defy the boycott by importing British goods.\n\nIn 1773, private letters were published in which Massachusetts Governor Thomas Hutchinson claimed that the colonists could not enjoy all English liberties, and Lieutenant Governor Andrew Oliver called for the direct payment of colonial officials. The letters' contents were used as evidence of a systematic plot against American rights, and discredited Hutchinson in the eyes of the people; the Assembly petitioned for his recall. Benjamin Franklin, postmaster general for the colonies, acknowledged that he leaked the letters, which led to him being berated by British officials and fired from his job.\n\nMeanwhile, Parliament passed the Tea Act to lower the price of taxed tea exported to the colonies in order to help the East India Company undersell smuggled Dutch tea. Special consignees were appointed to sell the tea in order to bypass colonial merchants. The act was opposed by those who resisted the taxes and also by smugglers who stood to lose business. In most instances, the consignees were forced to resign and the tea was turned back, but Massachusetts governor Hutchinson refused to allow Boston merchants to give in to pressure. A town meeting in Boston determined that the tea would not be landed, and ignored a demand from the governor to disperse. On December 16, 1773, a group of men, led by Samuel Adams and dressed to evoke the appearance of American Indians, boarded the ships of the British East India Company and dumped £10,000 worth of tea from their holds (approximately £636,000 in 2008) into Boston Harbor. Decades later, this event became known as the Boston Tea Party and remains a significant part of American patriotic lore.\n\nThe British government responded by passing several Acts which came to be known as the Intolerable Acts, which further darkened colonial opinion towards the British. They consisted of four laws enacted by the British parliament. The first was the Massachusetts Government Act which altered the Massachusetts charter and restricted town meetings. The second act was the Administration of Justice Act which ordered that all British soldiers to be tried were to be arraigned in Britain, not in the colonies. The third Act was the Boston Port Act, which closed the port of Boston until the British had been compensated for the tea lost in the Boston Tea Party. The fourth Act was the Quartering Act of 1774, which allowed royal governors to house British troops in the homes of citizens without requiring permission of the owner.\n\nIn response, Massachusetts patriots issued the Suffolk Resolves and formed an alternative shadow government known as the \"Provincial Congress\" which began training militia outside British-occupied Boston. In September 1774, the First Continental Congress convened, consisting of representatives from each of the colonies, to serve as a vehicle for deliberation and collective action. During secret debates, conservative Joseph Galloway proposed the creation of a colonial Parliament that would be able to approve or disapprove of acts of the British Parliament, but his idea was not accepted. The Congress instead endorsed the proposal of John Adams that Americans would obey Parliament voluntarily but would resist all taxes in disguise. Congress called for a boycott beginning on 1 December 1774 of all British goods; it was enforced by new committees authorized by the Congress.\n\nMassachusetts was declared in a state of rebellion in February 1775 and the British garrison received orders to disarm the rebels and arrest their leaders, leading to the Battles of Lexington and Concord on 19 April 1775. The Patriots laid siege to Boston, expelled royal officials from all the colonies, and took control through the establishment of Provincial Congresses. The Battle of Bunker Hill followed on June 17, 1775. It was a British victory—but at a great cost: about 1,000 British casualties from a garrison of about 6,000, as compared to 500 American casualties from a much larger force. The Second Continental Congress was divided on the best course of action, but eventually produced the Olive Branch Petition, in which they attempted to come to an accord with King George. The king, however, issued a Proclamation of Rebellion which stated that the states were \"in rebellion\" and the members of Congress were traitors.\n\nIn the winter of 1775, the Americans invaded Canada under generals Benedict Arnold and Richard Montgomery. The attack was a complete failure; many Americans who weren't killed were either captured or died of smallpox.\n\nIn March 1776, the Continental Army forced the British to evacuate Boston, with George Washington as the commander of the new army. The revolutionaries were now in full control of all 13 colonies and were ready to declare independence. There still were many Loyalists, but they were no longer in control anywhere by July 1776, and all of the Royal officials had fled.\n\nFollowing the Battle of Bunker Hill in June 1775, the Patriots had control of Massachusetts outside the Boston city limits, and the Loyalists suddenly found themselves on the defensive with no protection from the British army. In all 13 colonies, Patriots had overthrown their existing governments, closing courts and driving away British officials. They had elected conventions and \"legislatures\" that existed outside any legal framework; new constitutions were drawn up in each state to supersede royal charters. They declared that they were states now, not colonies.\n\nOn January 5, 1776, New Hampshire ratified the first state constitution. In May 1776, Congress voted to suppress all forms of crown authority, to be replaced by locally created authority. Virginia, South Carolina, and New Jersey created their constitutions before July 4. Rhode Island and Connecticut simply took their existing royal charters and deleted all references to the crown. The new states were all committed to republicanism, with no inherited offices. They decided what form of government to create, and also how to select those who would craft the constitutions and how the resulting document would be ratified. On 26 May 1776, John Adams wrote James Sullivan from Philadelphia:\n\n\"Depend upon it, sir, it is dangerous to open so fruitful a source of controversy and altercation, as would be opened by attempting to alter the qualifications of voters. There will be no end of it. New claims will arise. Women will demand a vote. Lads from twelve to twenty one will think their rights not enough attended to, and every man, who has not a farthing, will demand an equal voice with any other in all acts of state. It tends to confound and destroy all distinctions, and prostrate all ranks, to one common level\".\n\nThe resulting constitutions in states such as Maryland, Virginia, Delaware, New York, and Massachusetts featured:\n\nIn Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and New Hampshire, the resulting constitutions embodied:\n\nThe radical provisions of Pennsylvania's constitution lasted only 14 years. In 1790, conservatives gained power in the state legislature, called a new constitutional convention, and rewrote the constitution. The new constitution substantially reduced universal male suffrage, gave the governor veto power and patronage appointment authority, and added an upper house with substantial wealth qualifications to the unicameral legislature. Thomas Paine called it a constitution unworthy of America.\n\nIn April 1776, the North Carolina Provincial Congress issued the Halifax Resolves explicitly authorizing its delegates to vote for independence. In May, Congress called on all the states to write constitutions and eliminate the last remnants of royal rule. By June, nine colonies were ready for independence; one by one, the last four fell into line: Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, and New York. Richard Henry Lee was instructed by the Virginia legislature to propose independence, and he did so on June 7, 1776. On June 11, a committee was created to draft a document explaining the justifications for separation from Britain. After securing enough votes for passage, independence was voted for on July 2.\n\nThe Declaration of Independence was drafted largely by Thomas Jefferson and presented by the committee; it was unanimously adopted by the entire Congress on July 4, and each of the colonies became independent and autonomous. The next step was to form a union to facilitate international relations and alliances.\n\nThe Second Continental Congress approved the \"Articles of Confederation\" for ratification by the states on November 15, 1777; the Congress immediately began operating under the Articles' terms, providing a structure of shared sovereignty during prosecution of the war and facilitating international relations and alliances with France and Spain. The articles were ratified on March 1, 1781. At that point, the Continental Congress was dissolved and a new government of the United States in Congress Assembled took its place on the following day, with Samuel Huntington as presiding officer.\n\nAccording to British historian Jeremy Black, the British had significant advantages, including a highly trained army, the world's largest navy, and a highly efficient system of public finance that could easily fund the war. However, the British were seriously handicapped by their misunderstanding of the depth of support for the Patriot position. Ignoring the advice of General Gage, they misinterpreted the situation as merely a large-scale riot. London decided that they could overawe the Americans by sending a large military and naval force, forcing them to be loyal again:\n\nWashington forced the British out of Boston in the spring of 1776, and neither the British nor the Loyalists controlled any significant areas. The British, however, were massing forces at their naval base at Halifax, Nova Scotia. They returned in force in July 1776, landing in New York and defeating Washington's Continental Army in August at the Battle of Brooklyn. Following that victory, the British requested a meeting with representatives from Congress to negotiate an end to hostilities.\n\nA delegation including John Adams and Benjamin Franklin met Howe on Staten Island in New York Harbor on September 11, in what became known as the Staten Island Peace Conference. Howe demanded a retraction of the Declaration of Independence, which was refused, and negotiations ended. The British then quickly seized New York City and nearly captured Washington's army. They made New York their main political and military base of operations in North America, holding it until November 1783. The city became the destination for Loyalist refugees and a focal point of Washington's intelligence network.\n\nThe British also took New Jersey, pushing the Continental Army into Pennsylvania. Washington crossed the Delaware River back into New Jersey in a surprise attack in late December 1776 and defeated Hessian and British armies at Trenton and Princeton, thereby regaining control of most of New Jersey. The victories gave an important boost to Patriots at a time when morale was flagging, and have become iconic events of the war.\n\nIn 1777, the British sent Burgoyne's invasion force from Canada south to New York to seal off New England. Their aim was to neutralize the Yankees, whom the British perceived as the primary source of agitators. The British army in New York City went to Philadelphia in a major case of mis-coordination, capturing it from Washington. The invasion army under Burgoyne was much too slow and became trapped in northern New York state. It surrendered after the Battles of Saratoga in October 1777. From early October 1777 until November 15, a siege distracted British troops at Fort Mifflin, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and allowed Washington time to preserve the Continental Army by safely leading his troops to harsh winter quarters at Valley Forge.\n\nIn August 1775, George III declared Americans in arms against royal authority to be traitors to the Crown. Following their surrender at the Battles of Saratoga in October 1777, there were thousands of British and Hessian soldiers in American hands. Although Lord Germain took a hard line, the British generals on the scene never held treason trials; they treated captured enemy soldiers as prisoners of war. The dilemma was that tens of thousands of Loyalists were under American control and American retaliation would have been easy. The British built much of their strategy around using these Loyalists, and therefore, no Americans were put on trial for treason. The British maltreated the prisoners whom they held, resulting in more deaths to American sailors and soldiers than from combat operations. At the end of the war, both sides released their surviving prisoners.\n\nThe capture of a British army at Saratoga encouraged the French to formally enter the war in support of Congress. Benjamin Franklin negotiated a permanent military alliance in early 1778, significantly becoming the first country to officially recognize the Declaration of Independence. On February 6, 1778, a Treaty of Amity and Commerce and a Treaty of Alliance were signed between the United States and France. William Pitt spoke out in parliament urging Britain to make peace in America and to unite with America against France, while other British politicians who had previously sympathized with colonial grievances now turned against the Americans for allying with Britain's international rival and enemy.\n\nLater, Spain (in 1779) and the Dutch (1780) became allies of the French, leaving the British Empire to fight a global war alone without major allies, and requiring it to slip through a combined blockade of the Atlantic. The American theater thus became only one front in Britain's war. The British were forced to withdraw troops from continental America to reinforce the valuable sugar-producing Caribbean colonies, which were more lucrative to British investors.\n\nBritish commander Sir Henry Clinton evacuated Philadelphia and returned to New York City. General Washington intercepted Clinton in the Battle of Monmouth Court House, the last major battle fought in the north. After an inconclusive engagement, the British successfully retreated to New York City. The northern war subsequently became a stalemate, as the focus of attention shifted to the smaller southern theater.\nThe British strategy in America now concentrated on a campaign in the southern states. With fewer regular troops at their disposal, the British commanders saw the \"southern strategy\" as a more viable plan, as the south was perceived as being more strongly Loyalist, with a large population of recent immigrants as well as large numbers of slaves who might be captured or run away to join the British.\n\nBeginning in late December 1778, the British captured Savannah and controlled the Georgia coastline. In 1780, they launched a fresh invasion and took Charleston, as well. A significant victory at the Battle of Camden meant that royal forces soon controlled most of Georgia and South Carolina. The British set up a network of forts inland, hoping that the Loyalists would rally to the flag.\n\nNot enough Loyalists turned out, however, and the British had to fight their way north into North Carolina and Virginia, with a severely weakened army. Behind them, much of the territory that they had already captured dissolved into a chaotic guerrilla war, fought predominantly between bands of Loyalist and American militia, which negated many of the gains that the British had previously made.\n\nThe British army under Cornwallis marched to Yorktown, Virginia where they expected to be rescued by a British fleet. The fleet showed up, but so did a larger French fleet, so the British fleet returned to New York for reinforcements after the Battle of the Chesapeake, leaving Cornwallis trapped. In October 1781, the British surrendered their second invading army of the war, under a siege by the combined French and Continental armies commanded by Washington.\n\nHistorians continue to debate whether the odds for American victory were long or short. John E. Ferling says that the odds were so long that the American victory was \"almost a miracle\". On the other hand, Joseph Ellis says that the odds favored the Americans, and asks whether there ever was any realistic chance for the British to win. He argues that this opportunity came only once, in the summer of 1776, and the British failed that test. Admiral Howe and his brother General Howe \"missed several opportunities to destroy the Continental Army... Chance, luck, and even the vagaries of the weather played crucial roles.\" Ellis's point is that the strategic and tactical decisions of the Howes were fatally flawed because they underestimated the challenges posed by the Patriots. Ellis concludes that, once the Howe brothers failed, the opportunity for a British victory \"would never come again.\"\n\nSupport for the conflict had never been strong in Britain, where many sympathized with the Americans, but now it reached a new low. King George III personally wanted to fight on, but his supporters lost control of Parliament and no further major land offensives were launched in the American Theater. It would be three decades until war resumed again with the War of 1812, which firmly established the permanence of the United States.\n\nWashington could not know that the British would not reopen hostilities after Yorktown. They still had 26,000 troops occupying New York City, Charleston, and Savannah, together with a powerful fleet. The French army and navy departed, so the Americans were on their own in 1782–83. The treasury was empty, and the unpaid soldiers were growing restive, almost to the point of mutiny or possible \"coup d'état\". The unrest among officers of the Newburgh Conspiracy was personally dispelled by Washington in 1783, and Congress subsequently created the promise of a five years bonus for all officers.\n\nDuring negotiations in Paris, the American delegation discovered that France would support independence, but no territorial gains. The new nation would be confined to the area east of the Appalachian Mountains. The American delegation opened direct secret negotiations with London, cutting the French out. British Prime Minister Lord Shelburne was in full charge of the British negotiations. He now saw a chance to make the United States a valuable economic partner. The US obtained all the land east of the Mississippi River, south of Canada, and north of Florida. It gained fishing rights off Canadian coasts, and agreed to allow British merchants and Loyalists to try to recover their property. It was a highly favorable treaty for the United States, and deliberately so from the British point of view. Prime Minister Shelburne foresaw highly profitable two-way trade between Britain and the rapidly growing United States, as indeed came to pass. Since the blockade was lifted and the old imperial restrictions were gone, American merchants were free to trade with any nation anywhere in the world, and their businesses flourished.\n\nThe British largely abandoned the Indian allies living in the new nation. They were not a party to this treaty and did not recognize it until they were defeated militarily by the United States. However, the British did promise to support the Indians. They sold them munitions and maintained forts in American territory until the Jay Treaty of 1795.\n\nLosing the war and the Thirteen Colonies was a shock to Britain. The war revealed the limitations of Britain's fiscal-military state when they discovered that they suddenly faced powerful enemies with no allies, and they were dependent on extended and vulnerable transatlantic lines of communication. The defeat heightened dissension and escalated political antagonism to the King's ministers. Inside Parliament, the primary concern changed from fears of an over-mighty monarch to the issues of representation, parliamentary reform, and government retrenchment. Reformers sought to destroy what they saw as widespread institutional corruption.\n\nThe result was a powerful crisis from 1776 to 1783. The peace in 1783 left France financially prostrate, while the British economy boomed thanks to the return of American business. The crisis ended after 1784 thanks to the King's shrewdness in outwitting Charles James Fox (the leader of the Fox-North Coalition), and renewed confidence in the system engendered by the leadership of the new Prime Minister William Pitt. Historians conclude that loss of the American colonies enabled Britain to deal with the French Revolution with more unity and better organization than would otherwise have been the case. Britain turned towards Asia, the Pacific and later Africa with subsequent exploration leading to the rise of the Second British Empire.\n\nBritain's war against the Americans, French, and Spanish cost about £100 million. The Treasury borrowed 40% of the money that it needed. Heavy spending brought France to the verge of bankruptcy and revolution, while the British had relatively little difficulty financing their war, keeping their suppliers and soldiers paid, and hiring tens of thousands of German soldiers.\n\nBritain had a sophisticated financial system based on the wealth of thousands of landowners, who supported the government, together with banks and financiers in London. The British tax system collected about 12 percent of the GDP in taxes during the 1770s.\n\nIn sharp contrast, Congress and the American states had no end of difficulty financing the war. In 1775, there was at most 12 million dollars in gold in the colonies, not nearly enough to cover current transactions, let alone finance a major war. The British made the situation much worse by imposing a tight blockade on every American port, which cut off almost all imports and exports. One partial solution was to rely on volunteer support from militiamen and donations from patriotic citizens. Another was to delay actual payments, pay soldiers and suppliers in depreciated currency, and promise that it would be made good after the war. Indeed, the soldiers and officers were given land grants in 1783 to cover the wages that they had earned but had not been paid during the war. Not until 1781 did the national government have a strong leader in financial matters, when Robert Morris was named Superintendent of Finance of the United States.\n\nMorris used a French loan in 1782 to set up the private Bank of North America to finance the war. Seeking greater efficiency, Morris reduced the civil list, saved money by using competitive bidding for contracts, tightened accounting procedures, and demanded the national government's full share of money and supplies from the confederated states.\n\nCongress used four main methods to cover the cost of the war, which cost about 66 million dollars in specie (gold and silver). Congress made two issues of paper money—in 1775–1780 and in 1780–81. The first issue amounted to 242 million dollars. This paper money would supposedly be redeemed for state taxes, but the holders were eventually paid off in 1791 at the rate of one cent on the dollar. By 1780, the paper money was \"not worth a Continental\", as people said.\n\nThe skyrocketing inflation was a hardship on the few people who had fixed incomes—but 90 percent of the people were farmers, and were not directly affected by that inflation. Debtors benefited by paying off their debts with depreciated paper. The greatest burden was borne by the soldiers of the Continental Army, whose wages were usually in arrears and declined in value every month, weakening their morale and adding to the hardships of their families.\n\nBeginning in 1777, Congress repeatedly asked the states to provide money. But the states had no system of taxation either, and were little help. By 1780, Congress was making requisitions for specific supplies of corn, beef, pork, and other necessities—an inefficient system that kept the army barely alive.\n\nStarting in 1776, the Congress sought to raise money by loans from wealthy individuals, promising to redeem the bonds after the war. The bonds were in fact redeemed in 1791 at face value, but the scheme raised little money because Americans had little specie, and many of the rich merchants were supporters of the Crown. Starting in 1776, the French secretly supplied the Americans with money, gunpowder, and munitions in order to weaken its arch enemy Great Britain. When France officially entered the war in 1778, the subsidies continued, and the French government, as well as bankers in Paris and Amsterdam, lent large sums to the American war effort. These loans were repaid in full in the 1790s.\n\nThe war finally ended in 1783 and was followed by a period of prosperity. The national government was still operating under the Articles of Confederation and was able to settle the issue of the western territories, which were ceded by the states to Congress. American settlers moved rapidly into those areas, with Vermont, Kentucky, and Tennessee becoming states in the 1790s.\n\nHowever, the national government had no money to pay either the war debts owed to European nations and the private banks, or to pay Americans who had been given millions of dollars of promissory notes for supplies during the war. Nationalists led by Washington, Alexander Hamilton, and other veterans feared that the new nation was too fragile to withstand an international war, or even internal revolts such as the Shays' Rebellion of 1786 in Massachusetts.\n\nCalling themselves \"Federalists,\" the nationalists convinced Congress to call the Philadelphia Convention in 1787. It adopted a new Constitution that provided for a much stronger federal government, including an effective executive in a check-and-balance system with the judiciary and legislature. The Constitution was ratified in 1788, after a fierce debate in the states over the nature of the proposed new government. The new government under President George Washington took office in New York in March 1789. Amendments to the Constitution were spearheaded in Congress by James Madison as assurances to those who were cautious about federal power, guaranteeing many of the inalienable rights that formed a foundation for the revolution. The amendments were ratified by the states in 1791.\n\nThe national debt fell into three categories after the American Revolution. The first was the $12 million owed to foreigners, mostly money borrowed from France. There was general agreement to pay the foreign debts at full value. The national government owed $40 million and state governments owed $25 million to Americans who had sold food, horses, and supplies to the revolutionary forces. There were also other debts that consisted of promissory notes issued during the Revolutionary War to soldiers, merchants, and farmers who accepted these payments on the premise that the new Constitution would create a government that would pay these debts eventually.\n\nThe war expenses of the individual states added up to $114 million compared to $37 million by the central government. In 1790, Congress combined the remaining state debts with the foreign and domestic debts into one national debt totaling $80 million at the recommendation of first Secretary of the Treasury Alexander Hamilton. Everyone received face value for wartime certificates, so that the national honor would be sustained and the national credit established.\n\nThe population of the 13 Colonies was not homogeneous in their political views and attitudes. Loyalties and allegiances varied widely within regions and communities and even within families, and sometimes shifted during the course of the Revolution.\n\nThe American Enlightenment was a critical precursor of the American Revolution. Chief among the ideas of the American Enlightenment were the concepts of Natural Law, Natural Rights, Consent of the Governed, Individualism, Property Rights, Self-Ownership, Self-Determination, liberalism, republicanism and fear of corruption. Collectively, the acceptance of these concepts by a growing number of American colonists began to foster an intellectual environment which would lead to a new sense of political and social identity.\n\nJohn Locke's (1632–1704) ideas on liberty influenced the political thinking behind the revolution, especially through his indirect influence on English writers such as John Trenchard, Thomas Gordon, and Benjamin Hoadly, whose political ideas in turn had a strong influence on the American revolutionaries. Locke is often referred to as \"the philosopher of the American Revolution\" due to his work in the Social Contract and Natural Rights theories that underpinned the Revolution's political ideology. Locke's Two Treatises of Government published in 1689 were especially influential. He argued that all humans were created equally free, and governments therefore needed the \"consent of the governed.\" In late eighteenth-century America, belief was still widespread in \"equality by creation\" and \"rights by creation\".\n\nThe theory of the \"social contract\" influenced the belief among many of the Founders that among the \"natural rights\" of man was the right of the people to overthrow their leaders, should those leaders betray the historic rights of Englishmen. In terms of writing state and national constitutions, the Americans heavily used Montesquieu's analysis of the wisdom of the \"balanced\" British Constitution (mixed government).\n\nA central motivating force behind the overthrow of monarchy and aristocracy was the American embrace of a political ideology called \"republicanism\", which was dominant in the colonies by 1775 but of minor importance back in Great Britain. The republicanism was inspired by the \"country party\" in Great Britain, whose critique of British government emphasized that corruption was a terrible reality in Great Britain. Americans feared that the corruption was crossing the Atlantic; the commitment of most Americans to republican values and to their rights energized the revolution, as Britain was increasingly seen as hopelessly corrupt and hostile to American interests. Britain seemed to threaten the established liberties that Americans enjoyed. The greatest threat to liberty was depicted as corruption—not just in London but at home, as well. The colonists associated it with luxury, and especially with inherited aristocracy, which they condemned.\n\nThe Founding Fathers were strong advocates of republican values, particularly Samuel Adams, Patrick Henry, John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, Thomas Paine, George Washington, James Madison, and Alexander Hamilton, which required men to put civic duty ahead of their personal desires. Men had a civic duty to be prepared and willing to fight for the rights and liberties of their countrymen. John Adams wrote to Mercy Otis Warren in 1776, agreeing with some classical Greek and Roman thinkers in that \"Public Virtue cannot exist without private, and public Virtue is the only Foundation of Republics.\" He continued:\n\nFor women, \"republican motherhood\" became the ideal, exemplified by Abigail Adams and Mercy Otis Warren; the first duty of the republican woman was to instill republican values in her children and to avoid luxury and ostentation.\n\nSome republics had emerged throughout history, such as the Roman Republic of the ancient world, but none ever existed that was based on liberal principles. Thomas Paine's pamphlet \"Common Sense\" appeared in January 1776, after the Revolution had started. It was widely distributed and loaned, and often read aloud in taverns, contributing significantly to spreading the ideas of republicanism and liberalism together, bolstering enthusiasm for separation from Great Britain, and encouraging recruitment for the Continental Army.\n\nPaine provided a new and widely accepted argument for independence by advocating a complete break with history. \"Common Sense\" is oriented to the future in a way that compels the reader to make an immediate choice. It offered a solution for Americans disgusted and alarmed at the threat of tyranny.\n\nDissenting churches of the day (Protestant, non-Church of England) were the \"school of democracy\", in the words of Patricia Bonomi. President John Witherspoon of the College of New Jersey (now Princeton University) wrote widely circulated sermons linking the American Revolution to the teachings of the Bible. Throughout the colonies, dissenting Protestant ministers (Congregationalist, Baptist, and Presbyterian) preached Revolutionary themes in their sermons, while most Church of England clergymen preached loyalty to the king, the titular head of the English state church. Religious motivation for fighting tyranny transcended socioeconomic lines to encompass rich and poor, men and women, frontiersmen and townsmen, farmers and merchants.\n\nThe Declaration also referred to the \"Laws of Nature and of Nature's God\" as justification for the Americans' separation from the British monarchy. Most eighteenth-century Americans believed that nature, the entire universe, was God's creation and he was \"Nature's God\". Everything, including man, was part of the \"universal order of things\", which began with God and was directed by his providence. Accordingly, the signers of the Declaration professed their \"firm reliance on the Protection of divine Providence\", and they appealed to \"the Supreme Judge for the rectitude of our intentions\". Like most of his countrymen, George Washington was firmly convinced that he was an instrument of providence, to the benefit of the American people and of all humanity.\n\nHistorian Bernard Bailyn argues that the evangelicalism of the era challenged traditional notions of natural hierarchy by preaching that the Bible teaches that all men are equal, so that the true value of a man lies in his moral behavior, not in his class. Kidd argues that religious disestablishment, belief in God as the source of human rights, and shared convictions about sin, virtue, and divine providence worked together to unite rationalists and evangelicals and thus encouraged American defiance of the Empire. Bailyn, on the other hand, denies that religion played such a critical role. Alan Heimert argues that New Light anti-authoritarianism was essential to furthering democracy in colonial American society and set the stage for a confrontation with British monarchical and aristocratic rule.\nLooking back, John Adams concluded in 1818:\n\nIn terms of class, Loyalists tended to have longstanding social and economic connections to British merchants and government; for instance, prominent merchants in major port cities such as New York, Boston and Charleston tended to be Loyalists, as did men involved with the fur trade along the northern frontier. In addition, officials of colonial government and their staffs, those who had established positions and status to maintain, favored maintaining relations with Great Britain. They often were linked to British families in England by marriage as well.\n\nBy contrast, Patriots by number tended to be yeomen farmers, especially in the frontier areas of New York and the backcountry of Pennsylvania, Virginia and down the Appalachian mountains. They were craftsmen and small merchants. Leaders of both the Patriots and the Loyalists were men of educated, propertied classes. The Patriots included many prominent men of the planter class from Virginia and South Carolina, for instance, who became leaders during the Revolution, and formed the new government at the national and state levels.\n\nTo understand the opposing groups, historians have assessed evidence of their hearts and minds. In the mid-20th century, historian Leonard Woods Labaree identified eight characteristics of the Loyalists that made them essentially conservative; opposite traits to those characteristic of the Patriots. Older and better established men, Loyalists tended to resist innovation. They thought resistance to the Crown—which they insisted was the only legitimate government—was morally wrong, while the Patriots thought morality was on their side.\n\nLoyalists were alienated when the Patriots resorted to violence, such as burning houses and tarring and feathering. Loyalists wanted to take a centrist position and resisted the Patriots' demand to declare their opposition to the Crown. Many Loyalists, especially merchants in the port cities, had maintained strong and long-standing relations with Britain (often with business and family links to other parts of the British Empire).\n\nMany Loyalists realized that independence was bound to come eventually, but they were fearful that revolution might lead to anarchy, tyranny or mob rule. In contrast, the prevailing attitude among Patriots, who made systematic efforts to use mob violence in a controlled manner, was a desire to seize the initiative. Labaree also wrote that Loyalists were pessimists who lacked the confidence in the future displayed by the Patriots.\n\nHistorians in the early 20th century, such as J. Franklin Jameson, examined the class composition of the Patriot cause, looking for evidence of a class war inside the revolution. In the last 50 years, historians have largely abandoned that interpretation, emphasizing instead the high level of ideological unity. Just as there were rich and poor Loyalists, the Patriots were a 'mixed lot', with the richer and better educated more likely to become officers in the Army.\n\nIdeological demands always came first: the Patriots viewed independence as a means to gain freedom from British oppression and taxation and, above all, to reassert what they considered to be their rights as English subjects. Most yeomen farmers, craftsmen, and small merchants joined the Patriot cause to demand more political equality. They were especially successful in Pennsylvania but less so in New England, where John Adams attacked Thomas Paine's \"Common Sense\" for the \"absurd democratical notions\" it proposed.\n\nThe war became a personal issue for the king, fueled by his growing belief that British leniency would be taken as weakness by the Americans. The king also sincerely believed he was defending Britain's constitution against usurpers, rather than opposing patriots fighting for their natural rights.\n\nThose who fought for independence were called \"Patriots\", \"Whigs\", \"Congress-men\", or \"Americans\" during and after the war. They included a full range of social and economic classes but were unanimous regarding the need to defend the rights of Americans and uphold the principles of republicanism in terms of rejecting monarchy and aristocracy, while emphasizing civic virtue on the part of the citizens. Newspapers were strongholds of patriotism (although there were a few Loyalist papers) and printed many pamphlets, announcements, patriotic letters, and pronouncements.\n\nAccording to historian Robert Calhoon, 40–45% of the white population in the Thirteen Colonies supported the Patriots' cause, 15–20% supported the Loyalists, and the remainder were neutral or kept a low profile. Mark Lender analyzes why ordinary people became insurgents against the British, even if they were unfamiliar with the ideological reasons behind the war. He concludes that such people held a sense of rights which the British were violating, rights that stressed local autonomy, fair dealing, and government by consent. They were highly sensitive to the issue of tyranny, which they saw manifested in the British response to the Boston Tea Party. The arrival in Boston of the British Army heightened their sense of violated rights, leading to rage and demands for revenge. They had faith that God was on their side. The signers of the Declaration of Independence were mostly well-educated, of British stock, and of the Protestant faith.\n\nThe consensus of scholars is that about 15–20% of the white population remained loyal to the British Crown. Those who actively supported the king were known at the time as \"Loyalists\", \"Tories\", or \"King's men\". The Loyalists never controlled territory unless the British Army occupied it. They were typically older, less willing to break with old loyalties, and often connected to the Church of England; they included many established merchants with strong business connections throughout the Empire, as well as royal officials such as Thomas Hutchinson of Boston. There were 500 to 1,000 black loyalists, slaves who escaped to British lines and joined the British army. Most died of disease, but Britain took the survivors to Canada as free men.\n\nThe revolution could divide families, such as William Franklin, son of Benjamin Franklin and royal governor of the Province of New Jersey who remained loyal to the Crown throughout the war. He and his father never spoke again. Recent immigrants who had not been fully Americanized were also inclined to support the King, such as Flora MacDonald who was a Scottish settler in the back country.\n\nAfter the war, the great majority of the approximately 500,000 Loyalists remained in America and resumed normal lives. Some became prominent American leaders, such as Samuel Seabury. Approximately 62,000 Loyalists relocated to Canada; others moved to Britain (7,000), Florida, or the West Indies (9,000). The exiles represented approximately two percent of the total population of the colonies. Nearly all black loyalists left for Nova Scotia, Florida, or England, where they could remain free. Loyalists who left the South in 1783 took thousands of their slaves with them to be slaves in the British West Indies.\n\nA minority of uncertain size tried to stay neutral in the war. Most kept a low profile, but the Quakers were the most important group to speak out for neutrality, especially in Pennsylvania. The Quakers continued to do business with the British even after the war began, and they were accused of being supporters of British rule, \"contrivers and authors of seditious publications\" critical of the revolutionary cause. The majority of Quakers attempted to remain neutral, although a sizable number of Quakers in the American Revolution nevertheless participated to some degree.\n\nWomen contributed to the American Revolution in many ways, and were involved on both sides. While formal Revolutionary politics did not include women, ordinary domestic behaviors became charged with political significance as Patriot women confronted a war that permeated all aspects of political, civil, and domestic life. They participated by boycotting British goods, spying on the British, following armies as they marched, washing, cooking, and tending for soldiers, delivering secret messages, and in a few cases like Deborah Samson, fighting disguised as men. Also, Mercy Otis Warren held meetings in her house and cleverly attacked Loyalists with her creative plays and histories. Above all, they continued the agricultural work at home to feed their families and the armies. They maintained their families during their husbands' absences and sometimes after their deaths.\n\nAmerican women were integral to the success of the boycott of British goods, as the boycotted items were largely household items such as tea and cloth. Women had to return to knitting goods, and to spinning and weaving their own cloth — skills that had fallen into disuse. In 1769, the women of Boston produced 40,000 skeins of yarn, and 180 women in Middletown, Massachusetts wove of cloth.\n\nA crisis of political loyalties could disrupt the fabric of colonial America women's social worlds: whether a man did or did not renounce his allegiance to the King could dissolve ties of class, family, and friendship, isolating women from former connections. A woman's loyalty to her husband, once a private commitment, could become a political act, especially for women in America committed to men who remained loyal to the King. Legal divorce, usually rare, was granted to Patriot women whose husbands supported the King.\n\nIn early 1776, France set up a major program of aid to the Americans, and the Spanish secretly added funds. Each country spent one million \"livres tournaises\" to buy munitions. A dummy corporation run by Pierre Beaumarchais concealed their activities. American rebels obtained some munitions through the Dutch Republic as well as French and Spanish ports in the West Indies.\n\nSpain did not officially recognize the U.S. but became an informal ally when it declared war on Britain on June 21, 1779. Bernardo de Gálvez y Madrid, general of the Spanish forces in New Spain, also served as governor of Louisiana. He led an expedition of colonial troops to force the British out of Florida and keep open a vital conduit for supplies.\n\nMost American Indians rejected pleas that they remain neutral and instead supported the British Crown. The great majority of the 200,000 Indians east of the Mississippi distrusted the Colonists and supported the British cause, hoping to forestall continued colonial encroachment on their territories. Those tribes that were more closely involved in trade tended to side with the Patriots, although political factors were important, as well.\n\nMost Indians did not participate directly in the war, except for warriors and bands associated with four of the Iroquois nations in New York and Pennsylvania which allied with the British. The British did have other allies, especially in the upper Midwest. They provided Indians with funding and weapons to attack American outposts. Some Indians tried to remain neutral, seeing little value in joining what they perceived to be a European conflict, and fearing reprisals from whichever side they opposed. The Oneida and Tuscarora among the Iroquois of central and western New York supported the American cause.\n\nThe British provided arms to Indians who were led by Loyalists in war parties to raid frontier settlements from the Carolinas to New York. They killed many settlers on the frontier, especially in Pennsylvania and New York's Mohawk Valley.\n\nIn 1776, Cherokee war parties attacked American Colonists all along the southern frontier of the uplands throughout the Washington District, North Carolina (now Tennessee) and the Kentucky wilderness area. They would launch raids with roughly 200 warriors, as seen in the Cherokee–American wars; they could not mobilize enough forces to invade Colonial areas without the help of allies, most often the Creek. The Chickamauga Cherokee under Dragging Canoe allied themselves closely with the British, and fought on for an additional decade after the signing of the Treaty of Paris.\n\nJoseph Brant of the powerful Mohawk nation, part of the Iroquois Confederacy based in New York, was the most prominent Indian leader against the Colonial forces. In 1778 and 1780, he led 300 Iroquois warriors and 100 white Loyalists in multiple attacks on small frontier settlements in New York and Pennsylvania, killing many settlers and destroying villages, crops, and stores. The Seneca, Onondaga, and Cayuga of the Iroquois Confederacy also allied with the British against the Americans.\n\nIn 1779, the Colonists forced the hostile Indians out of upstate New York when Washington sent an army under John Sullivan which destroyed 40 empty Iroquois villages in central and western New York. The Battle of Newtown proved decisive as the Patriots had a 3-1 advantage and ended significant resistance. Otherwise there was little combat. Sullivan systematically burned the villages and destroyed about 160,000 bushels of corn that composed the winter food supply. Facing starvation and homeless for the winter, the Iroquois fled to Canada. The British resettled them in Ontario, providing land grants as compensation for some of their losses.\n\nAt the peace conference following the war, the British ceded lands which they did not really control, and did not consult their Indian allies. They transferred control to the United States of all the land east of the Mississippi and north of Florida. Calloway concludes:\n\nThe British did not give up their forts in the West until 1796 in what is now the eastern Midwest, stretching from Ohio to Wisconsin; they kept alive the dream of forming a satellite Indian nation there, which they called a Neutral Indian Zone. That goal was one of the causes of the War of 1812.\n\nFree blacks in the North and South fought on both sides of the Revolution, but most fought for the Patriots. Gary Nash reports that there were about 9,000 black Patriots, counting the Continental Army and Navy, state militia units, privateers, wagoneers in the Army, servants to officers, and spies. Ray Raphael notes that thousands did join the Loyalist cause, but \"a far larger number, free as well as slave, tried to further their interests by siding with the patriots.\" Crispus Attucks was shot dead by British soldiers in the Boston Massacre in 1770 and is an iconic martyr to Patriots. Both sides offered freedom and re-settlement to slaves who were willing to fight for them, recruiting slaves whose owners supported the opposing cause.\n\nMany black slaves sided with the Loyalists. Tens of thousands in the South used the turmoil of war to escape, and the southern plantation economies of South Carolina and Georgia especially were disrupted. During the Revolution, the British tried to turn slavery against the Americans. Historian David Brion Davis explains the difficulties with a policy of wholesale arming of the slaves:\n\nDavis underscored the British dilemma: \"Britain, when confronted by the rebellious American colonists, hoped to exploit their fear of slave revolts while also reassuring the large number of slave-holding Loyalists and wealthy Caribbean planters and merchants that their slave property would be secure\". The Colonists, however, accused the British of encouraging slave revolts.\n\nAmerican advocates of independence were commonly lampooned in Britain for what was termed their hypocritical calls for freedom, at the same time that many of their leaders were planters who held hundreds of slaves. Samuel Johnson snapped, \"how is it we hear the loudest yelps for liberty among the [slave] drivers of the Negroes?\" Benjamin Franklin countered by criticizing the British self-congratulation about \"the freeing of one Negro\" (Somersett) while they continued to permit the Slave Trade.\n\nPhyllis Wheatley was a black poet who popularized the image of Columbia to represent America. She came to public attention when her \"Poems on Various Subjects, Religious and Moral\" appeared in 1773.\n\nDuring the war, slaves escaped from New England and the mid-Atlantic area to British-occupied cities such as New York. The effects of the war were more dramatic in the South. In Virginia, royal governor Lord Dunmore recruited black men into the British forces with the promise of freedom, protection for their families, and land grants. Tens of thousands of slaves escaped to British lines throughout the South, causing dramatic losses to slaveholders and disrupting cultivation and harvesting of crops. For instance, South Carolina was estimated to have lost about 25,000 slaves to flight, migration, or death—amounting to one third of its slave population. From 1770 to 1790, the black proportion of the population (mostly slaves) in South Carolina dropped from 60.5 percent to 43.8 percent, and from 45.2 percent to 36.1 percent in Georgia.\n\nBritish forces gave transportation to 10,000 slaves when they evacuated Savannah and Charleston, carrying through on their promise. They evacuated and resettled more than 3,000 Black Loyalists from New York to Nova Scotia, Upper Canada, and Lower Canada. Others sailed with the British to England or were resettled as freedmen in the West Indies of the Caribbean. But slaves who were carried to the Caribbean under control of Loyalist masters generally remained slaves until British abolition in its colonies in 1834. More than 1,200 of the Black Loyalists of Nova Scotia later resettled in the British colony of Sierra Leone, where they became leaders of the Krio ethnic group of Freetown and the later national government. Many of their descendants still live in Sierra Leone, as well as other African countries.\n\nTens of thousands of Loyalists left the United States – the current high estimate is 70,000 by Maya Jasanoff. Some migrated to Britain. The great majority, known as United Empire Loyalists, received land and subsidies for resettlement in British colonies in North America, especially Quebec (concentrating in the Eastern Townships), Prince Edward Island, and Nova Scotia. The new colonies of Upper Canada (now Ontario) and New Brunswick were expressly created by Britain for their benefit, where the Crown awarded land to Loyalists as compensation for losses in the United States. Britain wanted to develop the frontier of Upper Canada on a British colonial model. But about 80% of the Loyalists stayed in the United States and became full, loyal citizens; some of the exiles later returned to the U.S.\n\nInterpretations vary concerning the effect of the Revolution. Contemporaries of the period referred to it as \"the revolution\", although the war is sometimes known as the \"American War of Independence\" outside the United States, particularly in the United Kingdom.\n\nHistorians such as Bernard Bailyn, Gordon Wood, and Edmund Morgan view the American Revolution as a unique and radical event that produced deep changes and had a profound effect on world affairs, such as an increasing belief in the principles of the Enlightenment. These were demonstrated by a leadership and government that espoused protection of natural rights, and a system of laws chosen by the people. John Murrin, by contrast, argues that the definition of \"the people\" at that time was mostly restricted to free men who were able to pass a property-qualification. This view argues that any significant gain of the revolution was irrelevant in the short term to women, black Americans and slaves, poor white men, youth, and American Indians.\n\nMorgan has argued that, in terms of long-term impact on American society and values:\n\nAfter the Revolution, genuinely democratic politics became possible in the former colonies. The rights of the people were incorporated into state constitutions. Concepts of liberty, individual rights, equality among men and hostility toward corruption became incorporated as core values of liberal republicanism. The greatest challenge to the old order in Europe was the challenge to inherited political power and the democratic idea that government rests on the consent of the governed. The example of the first successful revolution against a European empire, and the first successful establishment of a republican form of democratically elected government, provided a model for many other colonial peoples who realized that they too could break away and become self-governing nations with directly elected representative government.\n\nThe Dutch Republic, also at war with Britain, was the next country to sign a treaty with the United States, on October 8, 1782. On April 3, 1783, Ambassador Extraordinary Gustaf Philip Creutz, representing King Gustav III of Sweden, and Benjamin Franklin, signed a Treaty of Amity and Commerce with the U.S.\n\nThe American Revolution was the first wave of the Atlantic Revolutions: the French Revolution, the Haitian Revolution, and the Latin American wars of independence. Aftershocks reached Ireland in the Irish Rebellion of 1798, in the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, and in the Netherlands.\n\nThe Revolution had a strong, immediate influence in Great Britain, Ireland, the Netherlands, and France. Many British and Irish Whigs spoke in favor of the American cause. In Ireland, there was a profound impact; the Protestants who controlled Ireland were demanding more and more self-rule. Under the leadership of Henry Grattan, the so-called \"Patriots\" forced the reversal of mercantilist prohibitions against trade with other British colonies. The King and his cabinet in London could not risk another rebellion on the American model, and made a series of concessions to the Patriot faction in Dublin. Armed Protestant volunteer units were set up to protect against an invasion from France. As in America, so too in Ireland the King no longer had a monopoly of lethal force.\n\nThe Revolution, along with the Dutch Revolt (end of the 16th century) and the 17th century English Civil War, was among the examples of overthrowing an old regime for many Europeans who later were active during the era of the French Revolution, such as the Marquis de Lafayette. The American Declaration of Independence influenced the French Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen of 1789. The spirit of the Declaration of Independence led to laws ending slavery in all the Northern states and the Northwest Territory, with New Jersey the last in 1804. States such as New Jersey and New York adopted gradual emancipation, which kept some people as slaves for more than two decades longer.\n\nThe democratic ideals of the Revolution inspired changes in the roles of women.\n\nThe concept of republican motherhood was inspired by this period and reflects the importance of Republicanism as the dominant American ideology. It assumed that a successful republic rested upon the virtue of its citizens. Women were considered to have the essential role of instilling their children with values conducive to a healthy republic. During this period, the wife's relationship with her husband also became more liberal, as love and affection instead of obedience and subservience began to characterize the ideal marital relationship. In addition, many women contributed to the war effort through fundraising and running family businesses in the absence of husbands.\n\nThe traditional constraints gave way to more liberal conditions for women. Patriarchy faded as an ideal; young people had more freedom to choose their spouses and more often used birth control to regulate the size of their families. Society emphasized the role of mothers in child rearing, especially the patriotic goal of raising republican children rather than those locked into aristocratic value systems. There was more permissiveness in child-rearing. Patriot women married to Loyalists who left the state could get a divorce and obtain control of the ex-husband's property.\nWhatever gains they had made, however, women still found themselves subordinated, legally and socially, to their husbands, disfranchised and usually with only the role of mother open to them. But, some women earned livelihoods as midwives and in other roles in the community, which were not originally recognized as significant by men.\n\nAbigail Adams expressed to her husband, the president, the desire of women to have a place in the new republic:\n\nThe Revolution sparked a discussion on the rights of woman and an environment favorable to women's participation in politics. Briefly the possibilities for women's rights were highly favorable, but a backlash led to a greater rigidity that excluded women from politics.\n\nFor more than thirty years, however, the 1776 New Jersey State Constitution gave the vote to \"all inhabitants\" who had a certain level of wealth, including unmarried women and blacks (not married women because they could not own property separately from their husbands), until in 1807, when that state legislature passed a bill interpreting the constitution to mean universal \"white male\" suffrage, excluding paupers.\n\nIn the first two decades after the American Revolution, state legislatures and individuals took actions to free numerous slaves, in part based on revolutionary ideals. Northern states passed new constitutions that contained language about equal rights or specifically abolished slavery; some states, such as New York and New Jersey, where slavery was more widespread, passed laws by the end of the 18th century to abolish slavery by a gradual method; in New York, the last slaves were freed in 1827.\n\nWhile no southern state abolished slavery, for a period individual owners could free their slaves by personal decision, often providing for manumission in wills but sometimes filing deeds or court papers to free individuals. Numerous slaveholders who freed their slaves cited revolutionary ideals in their documents; others freed slaves as a reward for service. Records also suggest that some slaveholders were freeing their own mixed-race children, born into slavery to slave mothers.\n\nThe American Revolution has a central place in the American memory as the story of the nation's founding. It is covered in the schools, memorialized by a national holiday, and commemorated in innumerable monuments. George Washington's estate at Mount Vernon was one of the first national pilgrimages for tourists and attracted 10,000 visitors a year by the 1850s.\n\nThe Revolution became a matter of contention in the 1850s in the debates leading to the American Civil War (1861–65), as spokesmen of both the Northern United States and the Southern United States claimed that their region was the true custodian of the legacy of 1776. The United States Bicentennial in 1976 came a year after the American withdrawal from the Vietnam War, and speakers stressed the themes of renewal and rebirth based on a restoration of traditional values.\n\nToday, more than 100 are protected and maintained by the government. The National Park Service alone owns and maintains more than 50 battlefield parks and sites related to the Revolution. The American Battlefield Trust preserves almost 700 acres of battlefield land in six states.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45594735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45594735", "title": "American urban history", "text": "American urban history\n\nAmerican urban history is the study of cities of the United States. Local historians have always written about their own cities. Starting in the 1920s, and led by Arthur Schlesinger, Sr. at Harvard, professional historians began comparative analysis of what cities have in common, and started using theoretical models and scholarly biographies of specific cities. The United States has also had a long history of hostility to the city, as characterized for example by Thomas Jefferson's agrarianism and the Populist movement of the 1890s. Mary Sies (2003) argues:\n\nAmerican urban history is a branch of the history of the United States and of the broader field of Urban history. That field of history examines the historical development of cities and towns, and the process of urbanization. The approach is often multidisciplinary, crossing boundaries into fields like social history, architectural history, urban sociology, urban geography business history, and even archaeology. Urbanization and industrialization were popular themes for 20th-century historians, often tied to an implicit model of modernization, or the transformation of rural traditional societies.\n\nIn the United States from the 1920s to the 1990s many influential monographs began as one of the 140 PhD dissertations at Harvard University directed by Arthur Schlesinger, Sr. (1888–1965) or Oscar Handlin (1915–2011). Schlesinger and his students took a group approach to history, sharply downplaying the role of individuals. Handlin added a focus on groups defined by ethnicity (that is Germans, Irish, Jews, Italians Hispanics etc.) or by class (working class or middle class). The Harvard model was that the urban environment, including the interaction with other groups, shaped their history and group outlook.\n\nThe \"new urban history\" was a short-lived movement that attracted a great deal of attention In the 1960s, then quickly disappeared. It used statistical methods and innovative computer techniques to analyze manuscript census data, person by person, focusing especially on the geographical and social mobility of random samples of residents. Numerous monographs appeared, but it proved frustrating to interpret the results. Historian Stephan Thernstrom, the leading promoter of the new approach, soon disavowed it, saying it was neither new nor urban nor history.\n\nOverall urban history grew rapidly in the 1970s and 1980s, stimulated by the surge of interest in social history. Since the 1990s, however, the field has been aging and has had much less attraction to younger scholars.\n\nHistorian Richard Wade has summarized the claims that scholars have made for the importance of the city in American history. The cities were the focal points for the growth of the West, especially those along the Ohio and Mississippi rivers. The cities, especially Boston, were the seed beds of the American Revolution. Rivalry between cities, such as between Baltimore and Philadelphia, or between Chicago and St. Louis, stimulated economic innovations and growth, especially regarding the railroads. The cities sponsored entrepreneurship, especially in terms of export and import markets, banking, finance, and the rise of the factory system after 1812. The rapidly growing railroad system after 1840 was primarily oriented toward linking together the major cities, which in turn became centers of the wholesale trade. The railroads allowed major cities such as Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, Denver, and San Francisco to dominate ever-larger hinterlands.\n\nThe failure of the South to develop an urban infrastructure significantly weakened it during the Civil War, especially as its border cities of Baltimore, Washington, Louisville, and St. Louis, refused to join the Confederacy. The cities were fonts of innovation in democracy, especially in terms of building powerful political organizations and machines; they were also the main base for reformers of those machines. They became the home base for important immigrant groups, especially the Irish and the Jews. Cities were the strongholds of labor unions in the 19th and 20th centuries (although no longer so in the 21st century).\n\nHistorian Zane Miller argues that urban history was rejuvenated in mid-20th century by the realization that the cultural importance of the city went far beyond art galleries and museums. Historians began to emphasize \"the importance of individual choices in the past and made the advocacy of lifestyle choices a hallmark of American civilization.\" It was the diversity of the city, and the support it provided for diverse lifestyles, that set it so dramatically apart from towns and rural areas. By the 1990s there was increased emphasis on racial minorities, outcasts, and gays and lesbians, as well as studies of leisure activities and sports history.\n\nAs Morton White demonstrated in \"The Intellectual versus the City: from Thomas Jefferson to Frank Lloyd Wright\" (1962), the overwhelming consensus of American intellectuals has been hostile to the city. The main idea is the Romantic view that the unspoiled nature of rural America is morally superior to the over civilized cities, which are the natural homes of sharpsters and criminals. American poets did not rhapsodize over the cities. On the contrary they portrayed the metropolis as The ugly scene of economic inequality, crime, drunkenness, prostitution and every variety of immorality. Urbanites were set to rhyme as crafty, overly competitive, artificial, and as having lost too much naturalness and goodness.\n\nHistorian Carl Bridenbaugh examined in depth five key cities: Boston (population 16,000 in 1760), Newport Rhode Island (population 7500), New York City (population 18,000), Philadelphia (population 23,000), and Charles Town (Charlestown, South Carolina), (population 8000). He argues they grew from small villages to take major leadership roles in promoting trade, land speculation, immigration, and prosperity, and in disseminating the ideas of the Enlightenment, and new methods in medicine and technology. Furthermore, they sponsored a consumer taste for English amenities, developed a distinctly American educational system, and began systems for care of people meeting welfare. The cities were not remarkable by European standards, but they did display certain distinctly American characteristics, according to Bridenbaugh. There was no aristocracy or established church, there was no long tradition of powerful guilds. The colonial governments were much less powerful and intrusive and corresponding national governments in Europe. They experimented with new methods to raise revenue, build infrastructure and to solve urban problems. They were more democratic than European cities, in that a large fraction of the men could vote, and class lines were more fluid. Contrasted to Europe, printers (especially as newspaper editors) had a much larger role in shaping public opinion, and lawyers moved easily back and forth between politics and their profession. Bridenbaugh argues that by the mid-18th century, the middle-class businessmen, professionals, and skilled artisans dominated the cities. He characterizes them as \"sensible, shrewd, frugal, ostentatiously moral, generally honest,\" public spirited, and upwardly mobile, and argues their economic strivings led to \"democratic yearnings\" for political power. \n\nColonial powers established villages of a few hundred population as administrative centers, providing a governmental presence, as well has trading opportunities, and some transportation facilities. Representative examples include Spanish towns of Santa Fe, New Mexico, San Antonio, Texas, and Los Angeles, California, French towns of New Orleans, Louisiana and Detroit, Michigan; Dutch towns of New Amsterdam (New York City), and the Russian town of New Archangel (now Sitka). When their territory was absorbed into the United States, these towns expanded their administrative roles.\nNumerous historians have explored the roles of working-class men, including slaves, in the economy of the colonial cities, and in the early Republic.\n\nThere were few cities in the entire South, and Charleston (Charles Town) and New Orleans were the most important before the Civil War. The colony of South Carolina was settled mainly by planters from the overpopulated sugar island colony of Barbados, who brought large numbers of African slaves from that island. As Charleston grew as a port for the shipment of rice and later cotton, so did the community's cultural and social opportunities. The city had a large base of elite merchants and rich planters. The first theater building in America was built in Charleston in 1736, but was later replaced by the 19th-century Planter's Hotel where wealthy planters stayed during Charleston's horse-racing season (now the Dock Street Theatre, known as one of the oldest active theaters built for stage performance in the United States. Benevolent societies were formed by several different ethnic groups: the South Carolina Society, founded by French Huguenots in 1737; the German Friendly Society, founded in 1766; and the Hibernian Society, founded by Irish immigrants in 1801. The Charleston Library Society was established in 1748 by some wealthy Charlestonians who wished to keep up with the scientific and philosophical issues of the day. This group also helped establish the College of Charleston in 1770, the oldest college in South Carolina, the oldest municipal college in the United States, and the 13th oldest college in the United States.\n\nBy the 1775 the largest city was Philadelphia at 40,000, followed by New York (25,000), Boston (16,000), Charleston (12,000), and Newport (11,000), along with Baltimore, Norfolk, and Providence, with 6000, 6000, and 4400 population. They too were all seaports and on any one day each hosted a large transient population of Sailors and visiting businessmen. On the eve of the Revolution, 95 percent of the American population lived outside the cities—much to the frustration of the British, who were able to capture the cities with their Royal Navy, but lacked the manpower to occupy and subdue the countryside. In explaining the importance of the cities in shaping the American Revolution, Benjamin Carp compares the important role of waterfront workers, taverns, churches, kinship networks, and local politics. Historian Gary B. Nash emphasizes the role of the working class, and their distrust of their betters, in northern ports. He argues that working class artisans and skilled craftsmen made up a radical element in Philadelphia that took control of the city starting about 1770 and promoted a radical Democratic form of government during the revolution. They held power for a while, and used their control of the local militia disseminate their ideology to the working class and to stay in power until the businessmen staged a conservative counterrevolution.\n\nThe cities played a major role in fomenting the American Revolution, but they were hard hit during the war itself, 1775-83. They lost their main role as oceanic ports, because of the blockade by the British Navy. Furthermore, the British occupied the cities, especially New York 1776-83, as well as Boston, Philadelphia and Charleston for briefer periods. During the occupations cities were cut off from their hinterland trade and from overland communication. The British finally departed in 1783, they took out large numbers of wealthy merchants, resume their business activities elsewhere in the British Empire. The older cities finally restored their economic basis; growing cities included Salem, Massachusetts, (which opened a new trade with China), New London, Connecticut, and especially Baltimore, Maryland. The Washington administration under the leadership of Secretary of the treasury Alexander Hamilton set up a national bank in 1791, and local banks began to flourish in all the cities. Merchant entrepreneurship flourished and was a powerful engine of prosperity in the cities. Merchants and financiers of the cities were especially sensitive to the weakness of the old Confederation system; when it came time to ratify the much stronger new Constitution in 1788, all the nation's cities, North and South, voted in favor, while the rural districts were divided.\n\nThe national capital was at Philadelphia until 1800, when it was moved to Washington. Apart from the murderous Yellow Fever epidemic of 1793, which killed about 10 percent of the population, Philadelphia had a marvelous reputation as the \"cleanest, best-governed, healthiest, and most elegant of American cities.\" Washington, built in a fever-ridden swamp with long hot miserable summers, was ranked far behind Philadelphia, although it did escape Yellow Fever.\n\nWorld peace only lasted a decade, for in 1793 a two-decade-long war between Britain and France and their allies broke out. As the leading neutral trading partner the United States did business with both sides. France resented it, and the Quasi-War of 1798-99 disrupted trade. Outraged at British impositions on American merchant ships, and sailors, the Jefferson and Madison administrations engaged in economic warfare with Britain 1807-1812, and then full-scale warfare 1812 to 1815. The result was additional serious damage to the mercantile interests.\n\nNot all was gloomy in urban history, however. Although there was relatively little immigration from Europe, the rapid expansion of settlements to the West, and the Louisiana Purchase of 1803, open up vast frontier lands. New Orleans and St. Louis joined the United States, and entirely new cities were opened in Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Nashville and points west. Historian Richard Wade has emphasized the importance of the new cities in the Westward expansion in settlement of the farmlands. They were the transportation centers, and nodes for migration and financing of the westward expansion. The newly opened regions had few roads, but a very good river system in which everything flowed downstream to New Orleans. With the coming of the steamboat after 1820, it became possible to move merchandise imported from the Northeast and from Europe upstream to new settlements. The opening of the Erie Canal made Buffalo the jumping off point for the lake transportation system that made important cities out of Cleveland, Detroit, and especially Chicago.\n\nNew York, with a population of 96,000 in 1810 surged far beyond its rivals, reaching a population of 1,080,000 in 1860, compared to 566,000 in Philadelphia, 212,000 in Baltimore, 178,000 in Boston (289,000 including the Boston suburbs), and 169,000 in New Orleans. Historian Robert Albion identifies four aggressive moves by New York entrepreneurs and politicians that helped it jump to the top of American cities. It set up an auction system that efficiently and rapidly sold imported cargoes; it organized a regular transatlantic packet service to England; it built a large-scale coastwise trade, especially one that brought Southern cotton to New York for reexport to Europe; it sponsored the Erie Canal, which opened a large new market in upstate New York and the Old Northwest. The main rivals, Boston Philadelphia and Baltimore, tried to compete with the Erie Canal by opening their own networks of canals and railroads; they never caught up. The opening of the Erie Canal made Buffalo the jumping off point for the lake transportation system that made important cities out of Cleveland, Detroit, and especially Chicago. Manufacturing was not a major factor in the growth of the largest cities at this point. Instead factories were chiefly being built in towns and smaller cities, especially in New England, having waterfalls or fast rivers that were harnessed to generate the power, or were closer to coal supplies, as in Pennsylvania.\n\nAmerica's financial, business and cultural leadership (that is, literature, the arts, and the media) were concentrated in the three or four largest cities. Political leadership was never concentrated. It was divided between Washington and the state capitals, and many states deliberately moved their state capital out of their largest city, including New York, Pennsylvania, Michigan, Illinois, Missouri, South Carolina, Louisiana, Texas and California. Academic and scientific leadership was weak in the United States until the late 19th century, when it began to be concentrated in universities. A few major research-oriented schools were in or close by the largest cities, such as Harvard (Boston), Columbia (New York), Johns Hopkins (Baltimore) and Chicago. However, most were located in smaller cities or large towns such as Yale in New Haven, Connecticut; Cornell in Ithaca, New York; Princeton in Princeton, New Jersey; the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor; University of Illinois in Urbana; University of Wisconsin in Madison; University of California in Berkeley, and Stanford in the village of Stanford, California.\n\nThe cities played a major part in the Civil War, providing soldiers, money, training camps, supplies, and media support for the Union war effort.\n\nIn the North, discontent with the 1863 draft law led to riots in several cities and in rural areas as well. By far the most important were the New York City draft riots of July 13 to July 16, 1863. Irish Catholic and other workers fought police, militia and regular army units until the Army used artillery to sweep the streets. Initially focused on the draft, the protests quickly expanded into violent attacks on blacks in New York City, with many killed on the streets.\n\nA study of the small Michigan cities of Grand Rapids and Niles shows an overwhelming surge of nationalism in 1861, whipping up enthusiasm for the war in all segments of society, and all political, religious, ethnic, and occupational groups. However, by 1862 the casualties were mounting and the war was increasingly focused on freeing the slaves in addition to preserving the Union. Copperhead Democrats called the war a failure and it became more and more a partisan Republican effort.\n\nCities played a much less important part in the heavily rural Confederacy. When the war started the largest cities in slave states were seized in 1861 by the Union, including Washington, Baltimore, Wheeling, Louisville, and St. Louis. The largest and most important Confederate city, New Orleans, was captured in early 1862, and Nashville in 1863. All these cities became major logistic and strategic centers for the Union forces. All the remaining ports were blockaded by the summer of 1861, ending normal commercial traffic, with only very expensive blockade runners getting through. The largest remaining cities were Atlanta, the railroad center which was destroyed in 1864, in the national capital in Richmond which held out to the bitter end.\n\nThe overall decline in food supplies, made worse by the inadequate transportation system, led to serious shortages and high prices in Confederate cities. When bacon reached a dollar a pound in 1864, the poor white women of Richmond, Atlanta and many other cities began to riot; they broke into shops and warehouses to seize food. The women expressed their anger at ineffective state relief efforts, speculators, merchants and planters. As wives and widows of soldiers they were hurt by the inadequate welfare system.\n\nThe eleven Confederate states in 1860 had 297 towns and cities with 835,000 people; of these 162 with 681,000 people were at one point occupied by Union forces. Eleven were destroyed or severely damaged by war action, including Atlanta (with an 1860 population of 9,600), Charleston, Columbia, and Richmond (with prewar populations of 40,500, 8,100, and 37,900, respectively); the eleven contained 115,900 people in the 1860 census, or 14% of the urban South. The number of people (as of 1860) who lived in the destroyed towns represented just over 1% of the Confederacy's 1860 population.\n\nIn a horse-drawn era, streets were unpaved and covered with dirt or gravel. However, they produced uneven wear, opened new hazards for pedestrians and made for dangerous potholes for bicycles and for motor vehicles. Manhattan alone had 130,000 horses in 1900, pulling streetcars, wagons, and carriages, and leaving their waste behind. They were not fast, and pedestrians could dodge and scramble their way across the crowded streets. Small towns continued to rely on dirt and gravel, but larger cities wanted much better streets, so they looked to wood or granite blocks. In 1890, a third of Chicago's 2000 miles of streets were paved, chiefly with wooden blocks, which gave better traction than mud. Brick surfacing was a good compromise, but even better was asphalt paving. With London and Paris as models, Washington laid 400,000 square yards of asphalt paving by 1882, and served as a model for Buffalo, Philadelphia and elsewhere. By the end of the century, American cities boasted 30 million square yards of asphalt paving, followed by brick construction. In the largest cities, street railways were elevated, which increased their speed and lessened their dangers. Street-level trolleys moved passengers at 12 miles per hour for 5 cents a ride (with free transfers), They became the main transportation service for middle class shoppers and office workers until they bought automobiles after 1945 and commuted from more distant suburbs in privacy and comfort. The working-class typically walked to nearby factories and patronized small local stores. Big-city streets became paths for faster and larger and more dangerous vehicles, the pedestrians beware. Underground subways were a solution, with Boston building one in the 1890s followed by New York a decade later.\n\nAfter 1860, railroads pushed westward into unsettled territory. They built service towns to handle the needs of railroad construction and repair crews, train crews, and passengers who ate meals at scheduled stops. Gunfights and disorder characterized the railhead towns that were the target of major cattle drives from Texas. The violence was often exaggerated in dime novels. In most of the South, there were very few cities of any size for miles around, and this held for Texas as well. Railroads finally arrived in the 1880s and they shipped the cattle out; cattle drives became short-distance affairs. However the passenger trains were often the targets of armed gangs.\n\nDenver's economy before 1870 had been rooted in mining; it then grew by expanding its role in railroads, wholesale trade, manufacturing, food processing, and servicing the growing agricultural and ranching hinterland. Between 1870 and 1890, manufacturing output soared from $600,000 to $40 million, and the population grew by a factor of 20 times to 107,000. Denver had always attracted miners, workers, whores and travelers. Saloons and gambling dens sprung up overnight. The city fathers boasted of its fine theaters, and especially the Tabor Grand Opera House built in 1881. By 1890, Denver had grown to be the 26th largest city in America, and the fifth-largest city west of the Mississippi River. The boom times attracted millionaires and their mansions, as well as hustlers, poverty and crime. Denver gained regional notoriety with its range of bawdy houses, from the sumptuous quarters of renowned madams to the squalid \"cribs\" located a few blocks away. Business was good; visitors spent lavishly, then left town. As long as madams conducted their business discreetly, and \"crib girls\" did not advertise their availability too crudely, authorities took their bribes and looked the other way. Occasional cleanups and crack downs satisfied the demands for reform.\n\nWith its giant mountain of copper, Butte, Montana was the largest, richest and rowdiest mining camp on the frontier. It was an ethnic stronghold, with the Irish Catholics in control of politics and of the best jobs at the leading mining corporation Anaconda Copper. City boosters opened a public library in 1894. Ring argues that the library was originally a mechanism of social control, \"an antidote to the miners' proclivity for drinking, whoring, and gambling.\" It was also designed to promote middle-class values and to convince Easterners the Butte was a cultivated city. Appreciative crowds filled the large, upscale \"Belasco\" opera house for full-scale operas and top-name artists.\n\nIn Chicago and New York, new inventions facilitated the emergence of the skyscraper in the 1880s—it was a characteristic American style that was not widely copied around the world until the late 20th century. Construction required several major innovations, the elevator, and the steel beam. The steel skeleton, developed in the 1880s, replaced the heavy brick walls that were limited to 15 or so stories in height. The skyscraper also required a complex internal structure to solve difficult issues of ventilation, steam heat, gas lighting (and later electricity), and plumbing. Urban housing involved a wide variety of styles, but most of the attention focused on the tenement house for the working class, and the apartment building for the middle class.\n\nThe apartment building came first, as middle-class professionals, businessmen, and white-collar workers realized they did not need and could scarcely afford single-family dwellings of the type that low land costs in the towns permitted. Boarding houses were inappropriate for family; hotel suites were too expensive. In smaller cities, there were many apartments over stores and shops, usually occupied by proprietors of small local businesses. The residents paid rent, and did not own their apartments until the emergence of cooperatives in New York City in the 20th century, and condominiums around the country after World War II. Turnover was very high, and there was seldom was a sense of neighborhood community.\n\nStarting with the Stuyvesant luxury apartment house that opened in New York in 1869, and The Dakota in 1884, affluent tenants discovered that full-time staff handled the upkeep and maintenance, as well as security.\n\nThe less-lavish middle-class apartment buildings provided gas lighting, elevators, good plumbing, central heating, and maintenance men on call. Boston contractors build 16,000 \"Triple-Deckers\" Between 1870 and 1920. They were modern well-equipped buildings with a single large apartments on each floor. Chicago built thousands of apartment buildings, with the upscale ones close to the lake, where it was warmer in the winter and cooler in the summer. In every city, apartment buildings were built along the paths of the street railways, for the middle-class tenants rode the streetcar to work, while the working class saved a nickel each way and walked.\n\nThe working class crowded into tenement houses, with far fewer features and amenities. They were cheap and easy to build, and filled up almost the entire lot. There were typically five story walk-ups, with four separate apartments on each floor. There was minimal air circulation and sunlight. Until the reforms of 1879, New York tenements lacked running water or indoor toilets. Garbage pickup was erratic until late in the 19th century. Rents were cheap for those who could endure the dust, clutter, smells and noises; the only cheaper alternatives were squalid basement rooms in older buildings. Most of the tenements survived until the urban renewal movement of the 1950s.\n\nJeffersonian America distrusted the city, and rural spokesmen repeatedly warned their young men away. In 1881 \"The Evening Wisconsin\" newspaper warned cautious boys to stay on the farm. As paraphrased by historian Bayrd Still, the editor painted a grim contrast:\nThe response came from a Milwaukee newspaper editor in 1871, who boasted that the ambitious young man could not be stopped: \n\nHistorians have developed an elaborate typology of reformers in the late 19th century, focusing especially on the urban reformers.\n\nThe Mugwumps Were reform-minded Republicans who acted at the national level in the 1870s and 1880s, especially in 1884 when they split their ticket for Democrat Grover Cleveland. The \"Goo Goos\" were the local equivalent: the middle-class reformers who sought \"good government\" regardless of party. They typically focused on urban sanitation, better schools, and lower trolley fares for the middle-class commuters. They especially demanded a nonpolitical civil service system to replace the \"spoils of victory\" approach by which the winners of an election replaced city and school employees. They often formed short-lived citywide organizations, such as The Committee of 70 in New York, the Citizens' Reform Association in Philadelphia, the Citizens' Association of Chicago, and the Baltimore Reform League. They sometimes won citywide elections, but were rarely reelected. Party regulars laughed at them for trying to be independent of the political party machines by forming nonpartisan tickets. The ridicule included suggestions that the reformers were not real men: they were sissies and \"mollycoddles\".\n\nBy the 1890s, when historians call \"structural reformers\" were emerging; they were much more successful at reform, and marked the beginning of the Progressive era. They used national organizations, such as the National Municipal League, and focused on broader principles such as honesty, efficiency, economy, and centralized decision-making by experts. \"Efficiency\" was their watchword, they believed one of the problems with the machines was that they wasted enormous amounts of tax money by creating useless patronage jobs and payoffs to mid-level politicians.\n\nSocial reformers emerged in the 1890s, most famously Jane Addams Enter large complex network of reformers based at Hull House in Chicago. They were less interested in civil service reform or revising the city charter, and concentrated instead on the needs of working class housing, child labor, sanitation and welfare. Protestant churches promoted their own group of reformers, mostly women activists demanding prohibition or sharp reductions in the baleful influence of the saloon in damaging family finances and causing family violence. Rural America was increasingly won over by the prohibitionists, but they rarely had success in the larger cities, where they were staunchly opposed by the large German and Irish elements. However, the Women's Christian Temperance Union became well organized in cities of every size, and taught middle-class women the techniques of organization, proselytizing, and propaganda. Many of the WCTU veterans graduated into the woman's suffrage movement. Moving relentlessly from West to East, became the vote for women in state after state, and finally nationwide in 1920.\n\nSchool reform was high on the agenda, since local machine politicians used the jobs in the contracts, promote the party interest, rather than the needs of the students. After examining late 19th century reform movements in New York, Philadelphia, St. Louis, San Francisco and Chicago, historian David Tyack concludes that \"what the structural reformers wanted to do, then, was to replace a rather mechanical form of public bureaucracy, which was permeated with 'illegitimate' lay influence, with a streamlined 'professional' bureaucracy in which lay control was carefully filtered through a corporate school board.\n\nSanitary conditions were bad throughout urban America in the 19th century. The worst conditions appeared in the largest cities, where the accumulation of human and horse waste built up on the city streets, where sewage systems were inadequate, and the water supply was of dubious quality. Physicians took the lead in pointing out problems, and were of two minds on the causes. The older theory of contagion said that germs spread disease, but this theory was increasingly out of fashion by the 1840s or 1850s for two reasons. On the one hand it predicted too much-- microscopes demonstrated so many various microorganisms that there was no particular reason to associate any one of them with a specific disease. There was also a political dimension; a contagious theory of disease called for aggressive public health measures, which meant taxes and regulation the business community rejected. Before the 1880s, most experts believed in the \"Miasma theory\" which attributed the spread of disease to \"bad air\" caused by the abundance of dirt and animal waste. It indicated the need for regular garbage pickup. By the 1880s, however, European discovery of the germ theory of disease proved decisive for the medical community, although popular belief never shook the old \"bad air\" theory. Medical attention shifted from curing the sick patient to stopping the spread of the disease in the first place. It indicated a system of quarantines, hospitalization, clean water, and proper sewage disposal. Dr Charles V. Chapin (1856-1941), head of public health in Providence Rhode Island, was a tireless campaigner for the germ theory of disease, which he repeatedly validated with his laboratory studies. Chapin emphatically told popular audiences germs were the true culprit, not filth; that diseases were not indiscriminately transmitted through the smelly air; and that disinfection was not a cure-all. He paid little attention to environmental or chemical hazards in the air and water, or to tobacco smoking, since germs were not involved. They did not become a major concern of the public health movement until the 1960s. The second stage of public health, building on the germ theory, brought in engineers to design elaborate water and sewer systems. Their expertise was welcomed, and many became city managers after that reform was introduced in the early 20th century.\n\nIn the era 1890-1930, the larger cities were the focus of national attention. The skyscrapers and tourist attractions were widely publicized. Suburbs existed, but they Were largely bedroom communities for commuters to the central city. San Francisco dominated the West, Atlanta dominated the South, Boston dominated New England. Chicago, the nation's railroad hub, dominated the Midwest, New York City dominated the entire nation in terms of communications, trade, finance, as well as popular culture and high culture. More than a fourth of the 300 largest corporations in 1920 were headquartered in New York City.\n\nDuring the Progressive Era a coalition of middle-class reform-oriented voters, academic experts and reformers hostile to the political machines introduced a series of reforms in urban America, designed to reduce waste and inefficiency and corruption, by introducing scientific methods, compulsory education and administrative innovations.\n\nThe pace was set in Detroit Michigan, where Republican mayor Hazen S. Pingree first put together the reform coalition.\n\nMany cities set up municipal reference bureaus to study the budgets and administrative structures of local governments. Progressive mayors were important in many cities, such as Cleveland, Ohio (especially Mayor Tom Johnson); Toledo, Ohio; Jersey City, New Jersey; Los Angeles; Memphis, Tennessee; Louisville, Kentucky; and many other cities, especially in the western states. In Illinois, Governor Frank Lowden undertook a major reorganization of state government. Wisconsin was the stronghold of Robert La Follette, who led a wing of the Republican Party. His Wisconsin Idea used the state university as a major source of ideas and expertise.\n\nOne of the most dramatic changes came in Galveston, Texas were a devastating hurricane and flood overwhelmed the resources of local government. Reformers abolished political parties in municipal elections, and set up a five-man commission of experts to rebuild the city. The Galveston idea was simple, efficient, and much less conducive to corruption. If lessened the Democratic influences of the average voter, but multiplied the influence of the reform minded middle-class. The Galveston plan was quickly copied by many other cities, especially in the West. By 1914 over 400 cities had nonpartisan elected commissions. Dayton, Ohio Had its great flood in 1913, and responded with the innovation of a paid, non-political city manager, hired by the commissioners to run the bureaucracy; mechanical engineers were especially preferred.\n\nThe Garden city movement was brought over from England and evolved into the \"Neighborhood Unit\" form of development. In the early 1900s, as cars were introduced to city streets for the first time, residents became increasingly concerned with the number of pedestrians being injured by car traffic. The response, seen first in Radburn, New Jersey, was the Neighborhood Unit-style development, which oriented houses toward a common public path instead of the street. The neighborhood is distinctively organized around a school, with the intention of providing children a safe way to walk to school.\n\nUrban America had enjoyed strong growth and steady prosperity in the 1920s . Large-scale immigration had ended in 1914, and never fully resumed, so that ethnic communities have become stabilized and Americanized. Upward mobility was the norm, in every sector of the population supported the rapidly growing high school system. After the stock market crash of October 1929, the nation's optimism suddenly turned negative, with both business investments and private consumption overwhelmed by a deepening pessimism that encouraged people to cut back and reduce their expectations. The economic damage to the cities was most serious in the collapse of 80 to 90 percent of the private sector construction industry. Cities and states started expanding their own construction programs as early as 1930, and they became a central feature of the New Deal, but private construction did not fully recover until after 1945. Many landlords so their rental income drained away and many went bankrupt. After construction, came the widespread downturn in heavy industry, especially manufacturing of durable goods such as automobiles, machinery, and refrigerators. The impact of unemployment was higher in the manufacturing centers in the East and Midwest, and lower in the South and West, which had less manufacturing.\nOne visible effect of the depression was the advent of Hoovervilles, which were ramshackle assemblages on vacant lots of cardboard boxes, tents, and small rickety wooden sheds built by homeless people. Residents lived in shacks and begged for food or went to soup kitchens. The term was coined by Charles Michelson, publicity chief of the Democratic National Committee, who referred sardonically to President Herbert Hoover whose policies he blamed for the depression.\n\nUnemployment reached 25 percent in the worst days of 1932-33, but it was unevenly distributed. Job losses were less severe among women than men, among workers in nondurable industries (such as food and clothing), in services and sales, and in government jobs. The least skilled inner city men had much higher unemployment rates, as did young people who had a hard time getting their first job, and men over the age of 45 who if they lost their job would seldom find another one because employers had their choice of younger men. Millions were hired in the Great Depression, but men with weaker credentials were never hired, and fell into a long-term unemployment trap. The migration that brought millions of farmers and townspeople to the bigger cities in the 1920s suddenly reversed itself, as unemployment made the cities unattractive, and the network of kinfolk and more ample food supplies made it wise for many to go back. City governments in 1930-31 tried to meet the depression by expanding public works projects, as president Herbert Hoover strongly encouraged. However tax revenues were plunging, and the cities as well as private relief agencies were totally overwhelmed by 1931 men were unable to provide significant additional relief. They fell back on the cheapest possible relief, soup kitchens which provided free meals for anyone who showed up. After 1933 new sales taxes and infusions of federal money helped relieve the fiscal distress of the cities, but the budgets did not fully recover until 1941.\n\nThe federal programs launched by Hoover and greatly expanded by president Roosevelt’s New Deal used massive construction projects to try to jump start the economy and solve the unemployment crisis. The alphabet agencies ERA, CCC, FERA, WPA and PWA built and repaired the public infrastructure in dramatic fashion, but did little to foster the recovery of the private sector. FERA, CCC and especially WPA focused on providing unskilled jobs for long-term unemployed men.\n\nThe Democrats won easy landslides in 1932 and 1934, and an even bigger one in 1936; the hapless Republican Party seemed doomed. The Democrats capitalized on the magnetic appeal of Roosevelt to urban America. The key groups were low skilled ethnics, especially Catholics, Jews, and blacks. The Democrats promised and delivered in terms of beer, political recognition, labor union membership, and relief jobs. The city machines were stronger than ever, for they mobilize their precinct workers to help families who needed help the most navigate the bureaucracy and get on relief. FDR won the vote of practically every group in 1936, including taxpayers, small business and the middle class. However the Protestant middle class voters but turned sharply against him after the recession of 1937-38 undermined repeated promises that recovery was at hand. Historically, local political machines were primarily interested in controlling their wards and citywide elections; the smaller the turnout on election day, the easier it was to control the system. However, for Roosevelt to win the presidency in 1936 and 1940, he needed to carry the electoral college and that meant he needed the largest possible majorities in the cities to overwhelm the out state vote. The machines came through for him. The 3.5 million voters on relief payrolls during the 1936 election cast 82% percent of their ballots for Roosevelt. The rapidly growing, energetic labor unions, chiefly based in the cities, turned out 80% for FDR, as did Irish, Italian and Jewish communities. In all, the nation's 106 cities over 100,000 population voted 70% for FDR in 1936, compared to his 59% elsewhere. Roosevelt worked very well with the big city machines, with the one exception of his old nemesis, Tammany Hall in Manhattan. There he supported the complicated coalition built around the nominal Republican Fiorello La Guardia, and based on Jewish and Italian voters mobilized by labor unions.\n\nIn 1938, the Republicans made an unexpected comeback, and Roosevelt’s efforts to purge the Democratic Party of his political opponents backfired badly. The conservative coalition of Northern Republicans and Southern Democrats took control of Congress, outvoted the urban liberals, and handed the expansion of New Deal ideas. Roosevelt survived in 1940 thanks to his margin in the Solid South and in the cities. In the North the cities over 100,000 gave Roosevelt 60% of their votes, while the rest of the North favored the GOP candidate Wendell Willkie 52%-48%.\n\nWith the start of full-scale war mobilization in the summer of 1940, the economies of the cities rebounded. Even before Pearl Harbor, Washington pumped massive investments into new factories and funded round-the-clock munitions production, guaranteeing a job to anyone who showed up at the factory gate. The war brought a restoration of prosperity and hopeful expectations for the future across the nation. It had the greatest impact on the cities of the West Coast, especially Los Angeles, San Diego, San Francisco, Portland and Seattle.\n\nEconomic historians led by Price Fishback have examined the impact of New Deal spending on improving health conditions in the 114 largest cities, 1929-1937. They estimated that every additional $153,000 in relief spending (in 1935 dollars, or $1.95 million in year 2000 dollars) was associated with a reduction of one infant death, one suicide, and 2.4 deaths from infectious disease.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10169861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10169861", "title": "Anna M. Cienciala", "text": "Anna M. Cienciala\n\nAnna Maria Cienciala (November 8, 1929 – December 24, 2014) was a Polish-American historian and author. She specialized in modern Polish and Russian history. Graduating with a history doctorate in 1962, she taught at two Canadian universities for a few years before joining the history faculty at the University of Kansas in 1965. She retired in 2002.\n\nAnna Cienciala was born in the Free City of Danzig (now Gdańsk, Poland) on November 8, 1929. She was educated in Poland and France. Cienciala received a Bachelor of Arts from Liverpool University in 1952, a Master of Arts from McGill University in 1955, and a Ph.D. from Indiana University at Bloomington in 1962, where she wrote her dissertation under the supervision of Piotr S. Wandycz.\n\nShe taught courses in Eastern European history – with focus on modern Polish and Russian history – at the University of Ottawa and the University of Toronto in Canada, before landing a long-term career in the U.S. at the University of Kansas in 1965. As an author, Cienciala published two books, edited four books, and wrote around forty academic articles in various American, German, and Polish historical journals. She retired as Professor Emeritus in June, 2002. In 2007 Cienciala published, together with two other historians, \"A Crime without Punishment\", which explores the historiography of the Katyn massacre.\n\nCienciala was a member of a number of professional associations in Poland, the United Kingdom, and the United States. She has received awards from the NEH, Fulbright, IREX, ACLS and the Hall Center at K.U. She was a member of the Board of Directors of the Polish Institute of Arts and Sciences of America, and received the Polish Cross of Merit. Recipient of the Union of Polish Writers Abroad award (London, 2012). She is the subject of a 2000 biography published by Gdańsk University, edited by Marek Andrzejewski.\n\nProfessor Cienciala died on December 24, 2014 in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2953445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2953445", "title": "Banderole", "text": "Banderole\n\nA banderole (, \"little banner\") is a comparatively small but long flag, historically used by knights and on ships, and as a heraldic device for representing bishops.\n\nBannerol, in its main uses is the same as banderole, and is the term especially applied to banners about a yard square carried at the funerals of great men and placed over the tomb. Often it commemorated a particular exploit of the person bearing the coat of arms. \nA banderole is a small flag or streamer carried on the lance of a knight, or a long narrow flag, with cleft end flying from the mast-head of a ship in battle.\n\nIn heraldry, a banderole is a streamer hanging from beneath the crook of a bishop's crosier and folding over the staff, and for other small streamers or ribbons.\n\nThe term is also used in art and architecture for a speech scroll or streamer, representing a roll of parchment carried by or surrounding a figure or object, for bearing an inscription, mainly during the medieval and Renaissance periods. In particular banderoles were used as attributes for Old Testament prophets, as may be seen in the \"Santa Trinita Maestà\" by Cimabue, (Uffizi, 1280–90), Duccio's \"Maestà\" (1308–11), and other works. The convention had a historical appropriateness, as the Old Testament was originally written on scrolls, whereas nearly all surviving New Testament manuscripts are codices (like modern books). They may also be used for the words of angels, especially Gabriel's greeting to Mary in Annunciation scenes.\n\nStarting in the British Army during the French and Indian War (1754-1763), and continuing in use in various armies throughout the later 18th, 19th, and early 20th Centuries, up to and including the Soviet Red Army in their \"Great Patriotic War\" (1941-1945), the term \"en banderole\" referred to soldiers wearing either their greatcoat (heavy overcoat) or blanket, rolled up along its longer edge, draped over one shoulder and across their back and breast, and fastened—sometimes with a small bespoke strap, other times with a short length of simple rope—near their waist. The practice was begun by British light infantrymen fighting in North America during the Seven Years' War, known there as the \"French and Indian\" war, to make carrying their equipment more convenient to fighting in the heavily-wooded terrain.\n\n\nAttribution:\n"}
{"id": "5517266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5517266", "title": "Buddhist art", "text": "Buddhist art\n\nBuddhist art is the artistic practices that are influenced by Buddhism. It includes art media which depict Buddhas, bodhisattvas, and other entities; notable Buddhist figures, both historical and mythical; narrative scenes from the lives of all of these; mandalas and other graphic aids to practice; as well as physical objects associated with Buddhist practice, such as vajras, bells, stupas and Buddhist temple architecture. Buddhist art originated on the Indian subcontinent following the historical life of Siddhartha Gautama, 6th to 5th century BCE, and thereafter evolved by contact with other cultures as it spread throughout Asia and the world.\n\nBuddhist art followed believers as the dharma spread, adapted, and evolved in each new host country. It developed to the north through Central Asia and into Eastern Asia to form the Northern branch of Buddhist art, and to the east as far as Southeast Asia to form the Southern branch of Buddhist art. In India, Buddhist art flourished and co-developed with Hindu and Jain art, with cave temple complexes built together, each likely influencing the other.\n\nDuring the 2nd to 1st century BCE, sculptures became more explicit, representing episodes of the Buddha’s life and teachings. These took the form of votive tablets or friezes, usually in relation to the decoration of stupas.\nAlthough India had a long sculptural tradition and a mastery of rich iconography, the Buddha was never represented in human form, but only through Buddhist symbolism. This period may have been aniconic.\n\nArtists were reluctant to depict the Buddha anthropomorphically, and developed sophisticated aniconic symbols to avoid doing so (even in narrative scenes where other human figures would appear). This tendency remained as late as the 2nd century CE in the southern parts of India, in the art of the Amaravati School (see: Mara's assault on the Buddha).\nIt has been argued that earlier anthropomorphic representations of the Buddha may have been made of wood and may have perished since then. However, no related archaeological evidence has been found.\n\nThe earliest works of Buddhist art in India date back to the 1st century BCE The\nMahabodhi Temple at Bodh Gaya became a model for similar structures in Burma\nand Indonesia. The frescoes at Sigiriya are said to be even older than the\nAjanta Caves paintings.\n\nAnthropomorphic representations of the Buddha started to emerge from the 1st century CE in Northern India. The two main centers of creation have been identified as Gandhara in today’s North West Frontier Province, in Pakistan, and the region of Mathura, in central northern India.\n\nHellenistic culture was introduced in Gandhara during the conquests of Alexander the Great in 332 BCE. Chandragupta Maurya (reign: 321–298 BCE), founder of the Mauryan Empire, conquered the Macedonian satraps during the Seleucid-Mauryan War of 305–303 BCE. Chandragupta's grandson Ashoka (reign: 268-232 BCE), who formed the largest Empire in the Indian subcontinent, converted to Buddhism following the Kalinga War. Abandoning an expansionist ideology, Ashoka worked to spread the religion and philosophy throughout his empire as described in the edicts of Ashoka. Ashoka claims to have converted the Greek populations within his realm to Buddhism:\n\nAfter the overthrow of the Mauryan Empire by the Shunga Empire, the Greco-Bactrian and subsequently the Indo-Greek Kingdoms invaded north-western India. They facilitated the spread of Greco-Buddhist art style to other parts of the subcontinent. The Indo-Greek King Menander I was renown as a great patron of Buddhism, attaining the title of an arhat. Meanwhile Pushyamitra Shunga persecuted Buddhism, presumably to further erase the legacy of the Mauryan Empire. This led to the decline of Buddhist art east of Mathura.\n\nGandharan Buddhist sculpture displays Hellenistic artistic influence in the forms of human figures and ornament. Figures were much larger than any known from India previously, and also more naturalistic, and new details included wavy hair, drapery covering both shoulders, shoes and sandals, and acanthus leaf ornament.\nThe art of Mathura tends to be based on an Indian tradition, exemplified by the anthropomorphic representation of divinities such as the Yaksas, although in a style rather archaic compared to the later representations of the Buddha. The Mathuran school contributed clothes covering the left shoulder of thin muslin, the wheel on the palm, the lotus seat.\n\nMathura and Gandhara also influenced each other. During their artistic florescence, the two regions were even united politically under the Kushans, both being capitals of the empire. It is still a matter of debate whether the anthropomorphic representations of Buddha was essentially a result of a local evolution of Buddhist art at Mathura, or a consequence of Greek cultural influence in Gandhara through the Greco-Buddhist syncretism.\n\nThis iconic art was characterized from the start by a realistic idealism, combining realistic human features, proportions, attitudes and attributes, together with a sense of perfection and serenity reaching to the divine. This expression of the Buddha as both man and God became the iconographic canon for subsequent Buddhist art.\n\nRemains of early Buddhist painting in India are vanishingly rare, with the later phases of the Ajanta Caves giving the great majority of surviving work, created over a relatively short up to about 480 CE. These are highly sophisticated works, evidently produced in a well-developed tradition, probably painting secular work in palaces as much as religious subjects.\n\nBuddhist art continued to develop in India for a few more centuries. The pink sandstone sculptures of Mathura evolved during the Gupta period (4th to 6th century CE) to reach a very high fineness of execution and delicacy in the modeling. The art of the Gupta school was extremely influential almost everywhere in the rest of Asia. At the end of the 12th century CE, Buddhism in its full glory came to be preserved only in the Himalayan regions in India. These areas, helped by their location, were in greater contact with Tibet and China - for example the art and traditions of Ladakh bear the stamp of Tibetan and Chinese influence.\n\nAs Buddhism expanded outside of India from the 1st century CE, its original artistic package blended with other artistic influences, leading to a progressive differentiation among the countries adopting the faith.\n\nThe Silk Road transmission of Buddhism to Central Asia, China and ultimately Korea and Japan started in the 1st century CE with a semi-legendary account of an embassy sent to the West by the Chinese Emperor Ming (58-75 AD). However, extensive contacts started in the 2nd century CE, probably as a consequence of the expansion of the Kushan Empire into the Chinese territory of the Tarim Basin, with the missionary efforts of a great number of Central Asian Buddhist monks to Chinese lands. The first missionaries and translators of Buddhists scriptures into Chinese, such as Lokaksema, were either Parthian, Kushan, Sogdian or Kuchean.\n\nCentral Asian missionary efforts along the Silk Road were accompanied by a flux of artistic influences, visible in the development of Serindian art from the 2nd through the 11th century in the Tarim Basin, modern Xinjiang. Serindian art often derives from the Greco-Buddhist art of the Gandhara district of what is now Pakistan, combining Indian, Greek and Roman influences. Silk Road Greco-Buddhist artistic influences can be found as far as Japan to this day, in architectural motifs, Buddhist imagery, and a select few representations of Japanese gods.\n\nThe art of the northern route was also highly influenced by the development of Mahāyāna Buddhism, an inclusive branch of Buddhism characterized by the adoption of new texts, in addition to the traditional āgamas, and a shift in the understanding of Buddhism. Mahāyāna goes beyond the traditional Early Buddhist ideal of the release from suffering (duḥkha) of arhats, and emphasizes the bodhisattva path. The Mahāyāna sutras elevate the Buddha to a transcendent and infinite being, and feature a pantheon of bodhisattvas devoting themselves to the Six Perfections, ultimate knowledge (Prajñāpāramitā), enlightenment, and the liberation of all sentient beings. Northern Buddhist art thus tends to be characterized by a very rich and syncretic Buddhist pantheon, with a multitude of images of the various buddhas, bodhisattvas, and heavenly beings (devas).\n\nBuddhist art in Afghanistan (old Bactria) persisted for several centuries until the spread of Islam in the 7th century. It is exemplified by the Buddhas of Bamyan. Other sculptures, in stucco, schist or clay, display very strong blending of Indian post-Gupta mannerism and Classical influence, Hellenistic or possibly even Greco-Roman.\n\nAlthough Islamic rule was somewhat tolerant of other religions \"of the Book\", it showed little tolerance for Buddhism, which was perceived as a religion depending on \"idolatry\". Human figurative art forms also being prohibited under Islam, Buddhist art suffered numerous attacks, which culminated with the systematic destructions by the Taliban regime. The Buddhas of Bamyan, the sculptures of Hadda, and many of the remaining artifacts at the Afghanistan museum have been destroyed.\n\nThe multiple conflicts since the 1980s also have led to a systematic pillage of archaeological sites apparently in the hope of reselling in the international market what artifacts could be found.\n\nCentral Asia long played the role of a meeting place between China, India and Persia. During the 2nd century BCE, the expansion of the Former Han to the West led to increased contact with the Hellenistic civilizations of Asia, especially the Greco-Bactrian Kingdom.\n\nThereafter, the expansion of Buddhism to the North led to the formation of Buddhist communities and even Buddhist kingdoms in the oasis of Central Asia. Some Silk Road cities consisted almost entirely of Buddhist stupas and monasteries, and it seems that one of their main objectives was to welcome and service travelers between East and West.\n\nThe eastern part of Central Asia (Chinese Turkestan (Tarim Basin, Xinjiang) in particular has revealed an extremely rich Serindian art (wall paintings and reliefs in numerous caves, portable paintings on canvas, sculpture, ritual objects), displaying multiple influences from Indian and Hellenistic cultures. Works of art reminiscent of the Gandharan style, as well as scriptures in the Gandhari script Kharoshti have been found. These influences were rapidly absorbed however by the vigorous Chinese culture, and a strongly Chinese particularism develops from that point.\n\nBuddhism arrived in China around the 1st century CE, and introduced new types of art into China, particularly in the area of statuary. Receiving this distant religion, strong Chinese traits were incorporated into Buddhist art.\nIn the 5th to 6th centuries, the Northern Dynasties developed rather symbolic and abstract modes of representation, with schematic lines. Their style is also said to be solemn and majestic. The lack of corporeality of this art, and its distance from the original Buddhist objective of expressing the pure ideal of enlightenment in an accessible and realistic manner, progressively led to a change towards more naturalism and realism, leading to the expression of Tang Buddhist art.\n\nSites preserving Northern Wei Dynasty Buddhist sculpture:\n\nFollowing a transition under the Sui Dynasty, Buddhist sculpture of the Tang evolved towards a markedly lifelike expression. Because of the dynasty's openness to foreign influences, and renewed exchanges with Indian culture due to the numerous travels of Chinese Buddhist monks to India, Tang dynasty Buddhist sculpture assumed a rather classical form, inspired by the Indian art of the Gupta period. During that time, the Tang capital of Chang'an (today's Xi'an) became an important center for Buddhism. From there Buddhism spread to Korea, and Japanese missions to Tang China helped it gain a foothold in Japan.\n\nHowever, foreign influences came to be negatively perceived in China towards the end of the Tang dynasty. In the year 845, the Tang emperor Wuzong outlawed all \"foreign\" religions (including Christian Nestorianism, Zoroastrianism and Buddhism) in order to support the indigenous religion, Taoism. He confiscated Buddhist possessions, and forced the faith to go underground, therefore affecting the development of the religion and its arts in China.\n\nChán Buddhism however, as the origin of Japanese Zen, continued to prosper for some centuries, especially under the Song Dynasty (960-1279), when Chan monasteries were great centers of culture and learning.\n\nEarly paintings by Chán monks tended to eschew the meticulous realism of Gongbi painting in favour of vigorous, monochrome paintings, attempting to express the impact of enlightenment through their brushwork.\n\nThe rise of Neo-Confucianism under Zhu Xi in the twelfth century resulted in considerable criticism of the monk-painters. Connected as they were with the then-unpopular school of Chan Buddhism, their paintings were discarded and ignored. Some paintings survived after being transported to Japan by visiting Zen monks, but the school of Chan painting gradually diminished.\n\nDuring the Qing Dynasty, Manchu emperors supported Buddhist practices for a range of political and personal reasons. The Shunzhi Emperor was a devotee of Chan Buddhism, while his successor, the Kangxi Emperor promoted Tibetan Buddhism, claiming to be the human embodiment of the bodhisattva Manjusri. However, it was under the rule of the third Qing ruler, the Qianlong Emperor, that imperial patronage of the Buddhist arts reached its height in this period. He commissioned a vast number of religious works in the Tibetan style, many of which depicted him in various sacred guises.\n\nWorks of art produced during this period are characterized by a unique fusion of Tibetan and Chinese artistic approaches. They combine a characteristically Tibetan attention to iconographic detail with Chinese-inspired decorative elements. Inscriptions are often written in Chinese, Manchu, Tibetan, Mongolian and Sanskrit, while paintings are frequently rendered in vibrant colors.\n\nAdditionally, the Qianlong Emperor initiated a number of large-scale construction projects; in 1744 he rededicated the Yonghe Temple as Beijing's main Tibetan Buddhist monastery, donating a number of valuable religious paintings, sculptures, textiles and inscriptions to the temple. The Xumi Fushou Temple, and the works housed within, is another project commissioned by the Qianlong Emperor that embodies the unique blend of Tibetan and Manchu artistic styles that characterized Buddhist art produced in China under Qianlong's reign.\n\nAfter the Qianlong Emperor's abdication in 1795, the popularity of Tibetan Buddhism at the Qing court declined. The motives behind the Qing emperors' promotion of Tibetan Buddhism have been interpreted as a calculated act of political manipulation, and a means of forging ties between Manchu, Mongolian, and Tibetan communities, though this has been challenged by recent scholarship.\n\nThe popularization of Buddhism in China has made the country home to one of the richest collections of Buddhist arts in the world. The Mogao Caves near Dunhuang and the Bingling Temple caves near Yongjing in Gansu province, the Longmen Grottoes near Luoyang in Henan province, the Yungang Grottoes near Datong in Shanxi province, and the Dazu Rock Carvings near Chongqing municipality are among the most important and renowned Buddhist sculptural sites. The Leshan Giant Buddha, carved out of a hillside in the 8th century during the Tang Dynasty and looking down on the confluence of three rivers, is still the largest stone Buddha statue in the world.\n\nKorean Buddhist art generally reflects an interaction between other Buddhist influences and a strongly original Korean culture. Additionally, the art of the steppes, particularly Siberian and Scythian influences, are evident in early Korean Buddhist art based on the excavation of artifacts and burial goods such as Silla royal crowns, belt buckles, daggers, and comma-shaped gogok. The style of this indigenous art was geometric, abstract and richly adorned with a . Although many other influences were strong, Korean Buddhist art, \"bespeaks a sobriety, taste for the right tone, a sense of abstraction but also of colours that curiously enough are in line with contemporary taste\" (Pierre Cambon, \"Arts asiatiques- Guimet\"').\n\nThe first of the Three Kingdoms of Korea to officially receive Buddhism was Goguryeo in 372. However, Chinese records and the use of Buddhist motifs in Goguryeo murals indicate the introduction of Buddhism earlier than the official date. The Baekje Kingdom officially recognized Buddhism in 384. The Silla Kingdom, isolated and with no easy sea or land access to China, officially adopted Buddhism in 535 although the foreign religion was known in the kingdom due to the work of Goguryeo monks since the early 5th century. The introduction of Buddhism stimulated the need for artisans to create images for veneration, architects for temples, and the literate for the Buddhist sutras and transformed Korean civilization. Particularly important in the transmission of sophisticated art styles to the Korean kingdoms was the art of the \"barbarian\" Tuoba, a clan of non-Han Chinese Xianbei people who established the Northern Wei Dynasty in China in 386. The Northern Wei style was particularly influential in the art of the Goguryeo and Baekje. Baekje artisans later transmitted this style along with Southern Dynasty elements and distinct Korean elements to Japan. Korean artisans were highly selective of the styles they incorporated and combined different regional styles together to create a specific Korean Buddhist art style.\nWhile Goguryeo Buddhist art exhibited vitality and mobility akin with Northern Wei prototypes, the Baekje Kingdom was also in close contact with the Southern Dynasties of China and this close diplomatic contact is exemplified in the gentle and proportional sculpture of the Baekje, epitomized by Baekje sculpture exhibiting the fathomless smile known to art historians as the Baekje smile. The Silla Kingdom also developed a distinctive Buddhist art tradition epitomized by the Bangasayusang, a half-seated contemplative maitreya whose Korean-made twin, the Miroku Bosatsu, was sent to Japan as a proselytizing gift and now resides in the Koryu-ji Temple in Japan. Buddhism in the Three Kingdoms period stimulated massive temple-building projects, such as the Mireuksa Temple in the Baekje Kingdom and the Hwangnyongsa Temple in Silla. Baekje architects were famed for their skill and were instrumental in building the massive nine-story pagoda at Hwangnyongsa and early Buddhist temples in Yamato Japan such as Hōkō-ji (Asuka-dera) and Hōryū-ji. 6th century Korean Buddhist art exhibited the cultural influences of China and India but began to show distinctive indigenous characteristics. These indigenous characteristics can be seen in early Buddhist art in Japan and some early Japanese Buddhist sculpture is now believed to have originated in Korea, particularly from Baekje, or Korean artisans who immigrated to Yamato Japan. Particularly, the semi-seated Maitreya form was adapted into a highly developed Korean style which was transmitted to Japan as evidenced by the Koryu-ji Miroku Bosatsu and the Chugu-ji Siddhartha statues. Although many historians portray Korea as a mere transmitter of Buddhism, the Three Kingdoms, and particularly Baekje, were instrumental as active agents in the introduction and formation of a Buddhist tradition in Japan in 538 or 552.\n\nDuring the Unified Silla period, East Asia was particularly stable with China and Korea both enjoying unified governments. Early Unified Silla art combined Silla styles and Baekje styles. Korean Buddhist art was also influenced by new Tang Dynasty styles as evidenced by a new popular Buddhist motif with full-faced Buddha sculptures. Tang China was the cross roads of East, Central, and South Asia and so the Buddhist art of this time period exhibit the so-called international style. State-sponsored Buddhist art flourished during this period, the epitome of which is the Seokguram Grotto.\n\nThe fall of the Unified Silla Dynasty and the establishment of the Goryeo Dynasty in 918 indicates a new period of Korean Buddhist art. The Goryeo kings also lavishly sponsored Buddhism and Buddhist art flourished, especially Buddhist paintings and illuminated sutras written in gold and silver ink. . The crowning achievement of this period is the carving of approximately 80,000 woodblocks of the Tripitaka Koreana which was done twice.\n\nThe Joseon Dynasty actively suppressed Buddhism beginning in 1406 and Buddhist temples and art production subsequently decline in quality in quantity although beginning in 1549, Buddhist art does continue to be produced. .\n\nBefore the introduction of Buddhism, Japan had already been the seat of various cultural (and artistic) influences, from the abstract linear decorative art of the indigenous Neolithic Jōmon from around 10500 BC to 300 BC, to the art during the Yayoi and Kofun periods, with developments such as Haniwa art.\n\nThe cultural exchange between India and Japan was not direct, as Japan received Buddhism through Korea, China, Central Asia and eventually India. The Japanese discovered Buddhism in the 6th century when missionary monks travelled to the islands together with numerous scriptures and works of art. The cultural contact between Indian Dharmic civilization and Japan through the adoption of Buddhist ideas and aesthetic has contributed to the development of a national cultural order in the subsequent century. The Buddhist religion was adopted by the state in the following century. Being geographically at the end of the Silk Road, Japan was able to preserve many aspects of Buddhism at the very time it was disappearing in India, and being suppressed in Central Asia and China.\n\nFrom 711, numerous temples and monasteries were built in the capital city of Nara, including a five-story pagoda, the Golden Hall of the Horyuji, and the Kōfuku-ji temple. Countless paintings and sculptures were made, often under governmental sponsorship. Indian, Hellenistic, Chinese and Korean artistic influences blended into an original style characterized by realism and gracefulness. The creation of Japanese Buddhist art was especially rich between the 8th and 13th centuries during the periods of Nara, Heian and Kamakura.\nJapan developed an extremely rich figurative art for the pantheon of Buddhist deities, sometimes combined with Hindu and Shinto influences. This art can be very varied, creative and bold.\n\nFrom the 12th and 13th, a further development was Zen art, and it faces golden days in Muromachi Period, following the introduction of the faith by Dogen and Eisai upon their return from China. Zen art is mainly characterized by original paintings (such as sumi-e) and poetry (especially haikus), striving to express the true essence of the world through impressionistic and unadorned \"non-dualistic\" representations. The search for enlightenment \"in the moment\" also led to the development of other important derivative arts such as the Chanoyu tea ceremony or the Ikebana art of flower arrangement. This evolution went as far as considering almost any human activity as an art with a strong spiritual and aesthetic content, first and foremost in those activities related to combat techniques (martial arts).\n\nBuddhism remains very active in Japan to this day. Still around 80,000 Buddhist temples are preserved. Many of them are in wood and are regularly restored.\n\nTantric Buddhism started as a movement in eastern India around the 5th or the 6th century. Many of the practices of Tantric Buddhism are derived from Brahmanism (the usage of mantras, yoga, or the burning of sacrificial offerings). Tantrism became the dominant form of Buddhism in Tibet from the 8th century. Due to its geographical centrality in Asia, Tibetan Buddhist art received influence from Indian, Nepali, Greco-Buddhist and Chinese art.\n\nOne of the most characteristic creations of Tibetan Buddhist art are the mandalas, diagrams of a \"divine temple\" made of a circle enclosing a square, the purpose of which is to help Buddhist devotees focus their attention through meditation and follow the path to the central image of the Buddha.\nArtistically, Buddhist Gupta art and Hindu art tend to be the two strongest inspirations of Tibetan art.\n\nIn 10th to 11th centuries, Tabo Monastery in Himachal Pradesh, Northern India (at that time part of Western Tibet Kingdom) serves an important role as an intermediary between India and Tibet cultural exchange, especially Buddhist art and philosophy. Notable example of Tibetan Buddhist art in Tabo is its exquisite frescoes.\n\nChinese influence was predominant in the north of Vietnam (Tonkin) between the 1st and 9th centuries, and Confucianism and Mahayana Buddhism were prevalent. Overall, the art of Vietnam has been strongly influenced by Chinese Buddhist art.\n\nIn the south thrived the former kingdom of Champa (before it was later overtaken by the Vietnamese from the north). Champa had a strongly Indianized art, just as neighboring Cambodia. Many of its statues were characterized by rich body adornments. The capital of the kingdom of Champa was annexed by Vietnam in 1471, and it totally collapsed in the 1720s, while Cham people remain an abundant minority across Southeast Asia.\n\nThe orthodox forms of Buddhism, also known as Southern Buddhism are still practised in Sri Lanka, Myanmar (Burma), Thailand, Laos, and Cambodia. During the 1st century CE, the trade on the overland Silk Road tended to be restricted by the rise of the Parthian empire in the Middle East, an unvanquished enemy of Rome, just as Romans were becoming extremely wealthy and their demand for Asian luxury was rising. This demand revived the sea connections between the Mediterranean Sea and China, with India as the intermediary of choice. From that time, through trade connections, commercial settlements, and even political interventions, India started to strongly influence Southeast Asian countries. Trade routes linked India with southern Burma, central and southern Siam, lower Cambodia and southern Vietnam, and numerous urbanized coastal settlements were established there.\nFor more than a thousand years, Indian influence was therefore the major factor that brought a certain level of cultural unity to the various countries of the region. The Pali and Sanskrit languages and the Indian script, together with Mahayana and Theravada Buddhism, Brahmanism and Hinduism, were transmitted from direct contact and through sacred texts and Indian literature such as the Ramayana and the Mahabharata. This expansion provided the artistic context for the development of Buddhist art in these countries, which then developed characteristics of their own.\n\nBetween the 1st and 8th centuries, several kingdoms competed for influence in the region (particularly the Cambodian Funan then the Burmese Mon kingdoms) contributing various artistic characteristics, mainly derived from the Indian Gupta style. Combined with a pervading Hindu influence, Buddhist images, votive tablets and Sanskrit inscriptions are found throughout the area. Between 8th- and 12th-century, under the patronage of Pala dynasty, arts and ideas of Buddhism and Hinduism co-developed and became increasingly intermeshed. However, with Muslim invasion and sacking of monasteries in India, states Richard Blurton, \"Buddhism collapsed as a major force in India\".\n\nBy the 8th to 9th century, Sailendran Buddhist art were developed and flourished in Medang Mataram kingdom of Central Java, Indonesia. This period marked the renaissance of Buddhist art in Java, as numerous exquisite monuments were built, including Kalasan, Manjusrigrha, Mendut and Borobudur stone mandala. The traditions would continue to the 13th century Singhasari Buddhist art of East Java.\n\nFrom the 9th to the 13th centuries, Southeast Asia had very powerful empires and became extremely active in Buddhist architectural and artistic creation. The Sri Vijaya Empire to the south and the Khmer Empire to the north competed for influence, but both were adherents of Mahayana Buddhism, and their art expressed the rich Mahayana pantheon of the Bodhisattvas.\nThe Theravada Buddhism of the Pali canon was introduced to the region around the 13th century from Sri Lanka, and was adopted by the newly founded ethnic Thai kingdom of Sukhothai. Since in Theravada Buddhism of the period, Monasteries typically were the central places for the laity of the towns to receive instruction and have disputes arbitrated by the monks, the construction of temple complexes plays a particularly important role in the artistic expression of Southeast Asia from that time.\n\nFrom the 14th century, the main factor was the spread of Islam to the maritime areas of Southeast Asia, overrunning Malaysia, Indonesia, and most of the islands as far as the Southern Philippines. In the continental areas, Theravada Buddhism continued to expand into Burma, Laos and Cambodia.\n\nAccording to tradition, Buddhism was introduced in Sri Lanka in the 3rd century BCE by Indian missionaries under the guidance of Thera Mahinda, the son of the Mauryan Emperor Ashoka. Prior to the expansion of Buddhism, the indigenous population of Sri Lanka lived in an animistic world full of superstition. The assimilation and conversion of the various pre-Buddhist beliefs was a slow process. In order to gain a foothold among the rural population, Buddhism needed to assimilate the various categories of spirits and other supernatural beliefs. The earliest monastic complex was the Mahāvihāra at Anurādhapura founded by Devānampiyatissa and presented to Mahinda Thera. The Mahāvihāra became the centre of the orthodox Theravāda doctrine and its supreme position remained unchallenged until the foundation of the Abhayagiri Vihāra around BC 89 by Vaţţagāmaņĩ.\n\nThe Abhayagiri Vihāra became the seat of the reformed Mahāyāna doctrines. The rivalry between the monks of the Mahāvihāra and the Abhayagiri led to a further split and the foundation of the Jetavanarama near the Mahāvihāra. The main feature of Sinhala Buddhism was its division into three major groups, or \"nikāyas\", named after the three main monastic complexes at Anurādhapura; the Mahāvihāra, the Abhayagiri, and the Jetavanārāma. This was the result in the deviations in the disciplinary rules \"(vinaya)\" and doctrinal disputes. All the other monasteries of Sri Lanka owed ecclesiastical allegiance to one of the three. Sri Lanka is famous for its creations of Buddhist sculptures made of stone and cast in bronze alloy.\n\nA neighbor of India, Myanmar (Burma) was naturally strongly influenced by the eastern part of Indian territory. The Mon of southern Burma are said to have been converted to Buddhism around 200 BC under the proselytizing of the Indian king Ashoka, before the schism between Mahayana and Hinayana Buddhism.\n\nEarly Buddhist temples are found, such as Beikthano in central Myanmar, with dates between the 1st and the 5th centuries. The Buddhist art of the Mons was especially influenced by the Indian art of the Gupta and post-Gupta periods, and their mannerist style spread widely in Southeast Asia following the expansion of the Mon Empire between the 5th and 8th centuries.\n\nLater, thousands of Buddhist temples were built at Bagan, the capital, between the 11th and 13th centuries, and around 2,000 of them are still standing. Beautiful jeweled statues of the Buddha are remaining from that period. Creation managed to continue despite the seizure of the city by the Mongols in 1287.\n\nDuring the Ava period, from the 14th to 16th centuries, the Ava (Innwa) style of the Buddha image was popular. In this style, the Buddha has large protruding ears, exaggerated eyebrows that curve upward, half-closed eyes, thin lips and a hair bun that is pointed at the top, usually depicted in the bhumisparsa mudra.\n\nDuring the Konbaung dynasty, at the end of the 18th century, the Mandalay style of the Buddha image emerged, a style that remains popular to this day. There was a marked departure from the Innwa style, and the Buddha's face is much more natural, fleshy, with naturally-slanted eyebrows, slightly slanted eyes, thicker lips, and a round hair bun at the top. Buddha images in this style can be found reclining, standing or sitting. Mandalay-style Buddhas wear flowing, draped robes.\n\nAnother common style of Buddha images is the Shan style, from the Shan people, who inhabit the highlands of Myanmar. In this style, the Buddha is depicted with angular features, a large and prominently pointed nose, a hair bun tied similar to Thai styles, and a small, thin mouth.\n\nCambodia was the center of the Funan kingdom, which expanded into Burma and as far south as Malaysia between the 3rd and 6th centuries. Its influence seems to have been essentially political, most of the cultural influence coming directly from India.\n\nLater, from the 9th to 13th centuries, the Mahayana Buddhist and Hindu Khmer Empire dominated vast parts of the Southeast Asian peninsula, and its influence was foremost in the development of Buddhist art in the region. Under the Khmer, more than 900 temples were built in Cambodia and in neighboring Thailand. The royal patronage for Khmer Buddhist art reached its new height with the patronage of Jayavarman VII, a Buddhist king that built Angkor Thom walled city, adorned with the smiling face of Lokeshvara in Angkor Thom \"dvaras\" (gates) and \"prasat\" towers Bayon. Angkor was at the center of this development, with a Buddhist temple complex and urban organization able to support around 1 million urban dwellers. A great deal of Cambodian Buddhist sculpture is preserved at Angkor; however, organized looting has had a heavy impact on many sites around the country.\n\nOften, Khmer art manages to express intense spirituality through divinely beaming expressions, in spite of spare features and slender lines.\n\nThe Thai Buddhist art encompasses period for more than a millennia, from pre Thai culture of Dvaravati and Srivijaya, to the first Thai capital of Thai 13th century Sukhothai, all the way to succeeding Thai kingdoms of Ayutthaya and Rattanakosin.\n\nFrom the 1st to the 7th centuries, Buddhist art in Thailand was first influenced by direct contact with Indian traders and the expansion of the Mon kingdom, leading to the creation of Hindu and Buddhist art inspired from the Gupta tradition, with numerous monumental statues of great virtuosity.\n\nFrom the 9th century, the various schools of Thai art then became strongly influenced by Cambodian Khmer art in the north and Sri Vijaya art in the south, both of Mahayana faith. Up to the end of that period, Buddhist art is characterized by a clear fluidness in the expression, and the subject matter is characteristic of the Mahayana pantheon with multiple creations of Bodhisattvas.\n\nFrom the 13th century, Theravada Buddhism was introduced from Sri Lanka around the same time as the ethnic Thai kingdom of Sukhothai was established. The new faith inspired highly stylized images in Thai Buddhism, with sometimes very geometrical and almost abstract figures.\n\nDuring the Ayutthaya period (14th-18th centuries), the Buddha came to be represented in a more stylistic manner with sumptuous garments and jeweled ornamentations. Many Thai sculptures or temples tended to be gilded, and on occasion enriched with inlays.\n\nThe ensuing period of Thonburi and Rattanakosin Kingdom saw the further development of Thai Buddhist art. By the 18th century, Bangkok was established as the royal center of the kingdom of Siam. Subsequently, the Thai rulers filled the city with imposing Buddhist monuments to demonstrate their Buddhist piety as well as to showcase their authority. Among others are the celebrated Wat Phra Kaew which hosts the Emerald Buddha. Other Buddhist temples in Bangkok includes Wat Arun with \"prang\" style towers, and Wat Pho with its famous image of Reclining Buddha.\n\nLike the rest of Southeast Asia, Indonesia seems to have been most strongly influenced by India from the 1st century CE. The islands of Sumatra and Java in western Indonesia were the seat of the empire of Sri Vijaya (8th-13th century), which came to dominate most of the area around the Southeast Asian peninsula through maritime power. The Sri Vijayan Empire had adopted Mahayana and Vajrayana Buddhism, under a line of rulers named the Sailendra. The Sailendras was the ardent temple builder and the devoted patron of Buddhism in Java. Sri Vijaya spread Mahayana Buddhist art during its expansion into the Southeast Asian peninsula. Numerous statues of Mahayana Bodhisattvas from this period are characterized by a very strong refinement and technical sophistication, and are found throughout the region. One of the earliest Buddhist inscription in Java, the Kalasan inscription dated 778, mentioned about the construction of a temple for the goddess Tara.\nExtremely rich and refined architectural remains are found in Java and Sumatra. The most magnificent is the temple of Borobudur (the largest Buddhist structure in the world, built around 780-850 AD), built by Sailendras. This temple is modelled after the Buddhist concept of universe, the Mandala which counts 505 images of the seated Buddha and unique bell-shaped stupa that contains the statue of Buddha. Borobudur is adorned with long series of bas-reliefs narrated the holy Buddhist scriptures. The oldest Buddhist structure in Indonesia probably is the Batujaya stupas at Karawang, West Java, dated from around the 4th century. This temple is some plastered brick stupas. However, Buddhist art in Indonesia reach the golden era during the Sailendra dynasty rule in Java. The bas-reliefs and statues of Boddhisatva, Tara, and Kinnara found in Kalasan, Sewu, Sari, and Plaosan temple is very graceful with serene expression, While Mendut temple near Borobudur, houses the giant statue of Vairocana, Avalokitesvara, and Vajrapani.\n\nIn Sumatra Sri Vijaya probably built the temple of Muara Takus, and Muaro Jambi. The most beautiful example of classical Javanese Buddhist art is the serene and delicate statue of Prajnaparamita (the collection of National Museum Jakarta) the goddess of transcendental wisdom from Singhasari kingdom. The Indonesian Buddhist Empire of Sri Vijaya declined due to conflicts with the Chola rulers of India, then followed by Majapahit empire.\n\nMany contemporary artists have made use of Buddhist themes. Notable examples are Bill Viola, in his video installations, John Connell, in sculpture, and Allan Graham in his multi-media \"Time is Memory\".\n\nIn the UK The Network of Buddhist Organisations has interested itself in identifying Buddhist practitioners across all the arts. In 2005 it co-ordinated the UK-wide Buddhist arts festival, \"A Lotus in Flower\"; in 2009 it helped organise the two-day arts conference, \"Buddha Mind, Creative Mind\". As a result of the latter an association of Buddhist artists was formed.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5178", "title": "Classics", "text": "Classics\n\nClassics or classical studies is the study of classical antiquity. It encompasses the study of the Greco-Roman world, particularly of its languages and literature (Ancient Greek and Classical Latin) but also of Greco-Roman philosophy, history, and archaeology. Traditionally in the West, the study of the Greek and Roman classics was considered one of the cornerstones of the humanities and a fundamental element of a rounded education. The study of Classics has therefore traditionally been a cornerstone of a typical elite education.\n\nStudy encompasses specifically a time-period of history from the mid-2nd millennium BC to the 6th century AD.\n\nThe word \"Classics\" is derived from the Latin adjective \"classicus\", meaning \"belonging to the highest class of citizens\". The word was originally used to describe the members of the highest class in ancient Rome. By the 2nd century AD the word was used in literary criticism to describe writers of the highest quality. For example, Aulus Gellius, in his \"Attic Nights\", contrasts \"classicus\" and \"proletarius\" writers. By the 6th century AD, the word had acquired a second meaning, referring to pupils at a school. Thus the two modern meanings of the word, referring both to literature considered to be of the highest quality, and to the standard texts used as part of a curriculum, both derive from Roman use.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, classics and education were tightly intertwined; according to Jan Ziolkowski, there is no era in history in which the link was tighter. Medieval education taught students to imitate earlier classical models, and Latin continued to be the language of scholarship and culture, despite the increasing difference between literary Latin and the vernacular languages of Europe during the period.\n\nWhile Latin was hugely influential, however, Greek was barely studied, and Greek literature survived almost solely in Latin translation. The works of even major Greek authors such as Hesiod, whose names continued to be known by educated Europeans, were unavailable in the Middle Ages. In the thirteenth century, the English philosopher Roger Bacon wrote that \"there are not four men in Latin Christendom who are acquainted with the Greek, Hebrew, and Arabic grammars.\"\n\nAlong with the unavailability of Greek authors, there were other differences between the classical canon known today and the works valued in the Middle Ages. Catullus, for instance, was almost entirely unknown in the medieval period. The popularity of different authors also waxed and waned throughout the period: Lucretius, popular during the Carolingian period, was barely read in the twelfth century, while for Quintilian the reverse is true.\n\nThe Renaissance led to the increasing study of both ancient literature and ancient history, as well as a revival of classical styles of Latin. From the 14th century, first in Italy and then increasingly across Europe, Renaissance Humanism, an intellectual movement that \"advocated the study and imitation of classical antiquity\", developed. Humanism saw a reform in education in Europe, introducing a wider range of Latin authors as well as bringing back the study of Greek language and literature to Western Europe. This reintroduction was initiated by Petrarch (1304–1374) and Boccaccio (1313–1375) who commissioned a Calabrian scholar to translate the Homeric poems. This humanist educational reform spread from Italy, in Catholic countries as it was adopted by the Jesuits, and in countries that became Protestant such as England, Germany, and the Low Countries, in order to ensure that future clerics were able to study the New Testament in the original language.\n\nThe late 17th and 18th centuries are the period in Western European literary history which is most associated with the classical tradition, as writers consciously adapted classical models. Classical models were so highly prized that the plays of William Shakespeare were rewritten along neoclassical lines, and these \"improved\" versions were performed throughout the 18th century.\n\nFrom the beginning of the 18th century, the study of Greek became increasingly important relative to that of Latin.\nIn this period Johann Winckelmann's claims for the superiority of the Greek visual arts influenced a shift in aesthetic judgements, while in the literary sphere, G.E. Lessing \"returned Homer to the centre of artistic achievement\".\nIn the United Kingdom, the study of Greek in schools began in the late 18th century. The poet Walter Savage Landor claimed to have been one of the first English schoolboys to write in Greek during his time at Rugby School.\n\nThe 19th century saw the influence of the classical world, and the value of a classical education, decline, especially in the US, where the subject was often criticised for its elitism. By the 19th century, little new literature was still being written in Latin – a practice which had continued as late as the 18th century – and a command of Latin declined in importance. Correspondingly, classical education from the 19th century onwards began to increasingly de-emphasise the importance of the ability to write and speak Latin. In the United Kingdom this process took longer than elsewhere. Composition continued to be the dominant classical skill in England until the 1870s, when new areas within the discipline began to increase in popularity.\nIn the same decade came the first challenges to the requirement of Greek at the universities of Oxford and Cambridge, though it would not be finally abolished for another 50 years.\n\nThough the influence of classics as the dominant mode of education in Europe and North America was in decline in the 19th century, the discipline was rapidly evolving in the same period. Classical scholarship was becoming more systematic and scientific, especially with the \"new philology\" created at the end of the 18th and beginning of the 19th century. Its scope was also broadening: it was during the 19th century that ancient history and classical archaeology began to be seen as part of Classics, rather than separate disciplines.\n\nDuring the 20th century, the study of classics became less common. In England, for instance, Oxford and Cambridge universities stopped requiring students to have qualifications in Greek in 1920, and in Latin at the end of the 1950s. When the National Curriculum was introduced in England, Wales, and Northern Ireland in 1988, it did not mention the classics. By 2003, only about 10% of state schools in Britain offered any classical subjects to their students at all. In 2016, AQA, the largest exam board for A-Levels and GCSE's in England, Wales and Northern Ireland, announced that it would be scrapping A-Level subjects in Classical Civilization, Archaeology, and Art History. This left just one out of five exam boards in England which still offered Classical Civilization as a subject. The decision was immediately denounced by archaeologists and historians, with Natalie Haynes of \"The Guardian\" stating that the loss of the A-Level would deprive state school students, 93% of all students, the opportunity to study Classics, while making it once again the exclusive purview of wealthy private-school students.\n\nHowever, the study of classics has not declined as fast elsewhere in Europe. In 2009, a review of \"Meeting the Challenge\", a collection of conference papers about the teaching of Latin in Europe, noted that though there is opposition to the teaching of Latin in Italy, it is nonetheless still compulsory in most secondary schools. The same can be said in the case of France or Greece, too. Indeed, Ancient Greek is one of the compulsory subjects in Greek secondary education, whereas in France, Latin is one of the optional subjects that can be chosen in a majority of middle schools and high schools. Ancient Greek is also still being taught, but not as much as Latin.\n\nOne of the most notable characteristics of the modern study of Classics is the diversity of the field. Although traditionally focused on ancient Greece and Rome, the study now encompasses the entire ancient Mediterranean world, thus expanding the studies to Northern Africa as well as parts of the Middle East.\n\nPhilology is the study of language preserved in written sources; classical philology is thus concerned with understanding any texts from the classical period written in the classical languages of Latin and Greek.\nThe roots of classical philology lie in the Renaissance, as humanist intellectuals attempted to return to the Latin of the classical period, especially of Cicero, and as scholars attempted to produce more accurate editions of ancient texts.\nSome of the principles of philology still used today developed during this period. For instance, the observation that if a manuscript could be shown to be a copy of an earlier extant manuscript, then it provides no further evidence of the original text, was made as early as 1489 by Angelo Poliziano.\nOther philological tools took longer to be developed: the first statement, for instance, of the principle that a more difficult reading should be preferred over a simpler one, was in 1697 by Jean Le Clerc.\n\nThe modern discipline of classical philology began in Germany at the turn of the nineteenth century. It was during this period that scientific principles of philology began to be put together into a coherent whole, in order to provide a set of rules by which scholars could determine which manuscripts were most accurate. This \"new philology\", as it was known, centred around the construction of a genealogy of manuscripts, with which a hypothetical common ancestor, closer to the original text than any existing manuscript, could be reconstructed.\n\nClassical archaeology is the oldest branch of archaeology, with its roots going back to J.J. Winckelmann's work on Herculaneum in the 1760s. It was not until the last decades of the 19th century, however, that classical archaeology became part of the tradition of Western classical scholarship. It was included as part of Cambridge University's Classical Tripos for the first time after the reforms of the 1880s, though it did not become part of Oxford's Greats until much later.\n\nThe second half of the 19th century saw Schliemann's excavations of Troy and Mycenae; the first excavations at Olympia and Delos; and Arthur Evans' work in Crete, particularly on Knossos. This period also saw the foundation of important archaeological associations (e.g. the Archaeological Institute of America in 1879), including many foreign archaeological institutes in Athens and Rome (the American School of Classical Studies at Athens in 1881, British School at Athens in 1886, American Academy in Rome in 1895, and British School at Rome in 1900).\n\nMore recently, classical archaeology has taken little part in the theoretical changes in the rest of the discipline, largely ignoring the popularity of \"New Archaeology\", which emphasised the development of general laws derived from studying material culture, in the 1960s. New Archaeology is still criticized by traditional minded scholars of classical archaeology despite a wide acceptance of its basic techniques.\n\nSome art historians focus their study on the development of art in the classical world. Indeed, the art and architecture of Ancient Rome and Greece is very well regarded and remains at the heart of much of our art today. For example, Ancient Greek architecture gave us the Classical Orders: Doric, Ionic, and Corinthian. The Parthenon is still the architectural symbol of the classical world.\n\nGreek sculpture is well known and we know the names of several Ancient Greek artists: for example, Phidias.\n\nWith philology, archaeology, and art history, scholars seek understanding of the history and culture of a civilisation, through critical study of the extant literary and physical artefacts, in order to compose and establish a continual historic narrative of the Ancient World and its peoples. The task is difficult due to a dearth of physical evidence: for example, Sparta was a leading Greek city-state, yet little evidence of it survives to study, and what is available comes from Athens, Sparta's principal rival; likewise, the Roman Empire destroyed most evidence (cultural artefacts) of earlier, conquered civilizations, such as that of the Etruscans.\n\nThe English word \"philosophy\" comes from the Greek word φιλοσοφία, meaning \"love of wisdom\", probably coined by Pythagoras. Along with the word itself, the discipline of philosophy as we know it today has its roots in ancient Greek thought, and according to Martin West \"philosophy as we understand it is a Greek creation\". Ancient philosophy was traditionally divided into three branches: logic, physics, and ethics. However, not all of the works of ancient philosophers fit neatly into one of these three branches. For instance, Aristotle's \"Rhetoric\" and \"Poetics\" have been traditionally classified in the West as \"ethics\", but in the Arabic world were grouped with logic; in reality, they do not fit neatly into either category.\n\nFrom the last decade of the eighteenth century, scholars of ancient philosophy began to study the discipline historically. Previously, works on ancient philosophy had been unconcerned with chronological sequence and with reconstructing the reasoning of ancient thinkers; with what Wolfgang-Ranier Mann calls \"New Philosophy\", this changed.\n\nA relatively recent new discipline within the classics is \"reception studies\", which developed in the 1960s at the University of Konstanz.\nReception studies is concerned with how students of classical texts have understood and interpreted them.\nAs such, reception studies is interested in a two-way interaction between reader and text, taking place within a historical context.\n\nThough the idea of an \"aesthetics of reception\" was first put forward by Hans Robert Jauss in 1967, the principles of reception theory go back much earlier than this.\nAs early as 1920, T.S. Eliot wrote that \"the past [is] altered by the present as much as the present is directed by the past\"; Charles Martindale describes this as a \"cardinal principle\" for many versions of modern reception theory.\n\nAncient Greece was the civilization belonging to the period of Greek history lasting from the Archaic period, beginning in the eighth century BC, to the Roman conquest of Greece after the Battle of Corinth in 146 BC. The Classical period, during the fifth and fourth centuries BC, has traditionally been considered the height of Greek civilisation. The Classical period of Greek history is generally considered to have begun with the first and second Persian invasions of Greece at the start of the Greco-Persian wars, and to have ended with the death of Alexander the Great.\n\nClassical Greek culture had a powerful influence on the Roman Empire, which carried a version of it to many parts of the Mediterranean region and Europe; thus Classical Greece is generally considered to be the seminal culture which provided the foundation of Western civilization.\n\nAncient Greek is the historical stage in the development of the Greek language spanning the Archaic (c. 8th to 6th centuries BC), Classical (c. 5th to 4th centuries BC), and Hellenistic (c. 3rd century BC to 6th century AD) periods of ancient Greece and the ancient world. It is predated in the 2nd millennium BC by Mycenaean Greek. Its Hellenistic phase is known as Koine (\"common\") or Biblical Greek, and its late period mutates imperceptibly into Medieval Greek. Koine is regarded as a separate historical stage of its own, although in its earlier form it closely resembles Classical Greek. Prior to the Koine period, Greek of the classical and earlier periods included several regional dialects.\n\nAncient Greek was the language of Homer and of classical Athenian historians, playwrights, and philosophers. It has contributed many words to the vocabulary of English and many other European languages, and has been a standard subject of study in Western educational institutions since the Renaissance. Latinized forms of Ancient Greek roots are used in many of the scientific names of species and in other scientific terminology.\n\nThe earliest surviving works of Greek literature are epic poetry. Homer's \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\" are the earliest to survive to us today, probably composed in the eighth century BC. These early epics were oral compositions, created without the use of writing.\nAround the same time that the Homeric epics were composed, the Greek alphabet was introduced; the earliest surviving inscriptions date from around 750 BC.\nEuropean drama was invented in ancient Greece. Traditionally this was attributed to Thespis, around the middle of the sixth century BC, though the earliest surviving work of Greek drama is Aeschylus' tragedy \"The Persians\", which dates to 472 BC. Early Greek tragedy was performed by a chorus and two actors, but by the end of Aeschylus' life, a third actor had been introduced, either by him or by Sophocles. The last surviving Greek tragedies are the \"Bacchae\" of Euripides and Sophocles' Oedipus at Colonus, both from the end of the fifth century BC.\n\nSurviving Greek comedy begins later than tragedy; the earliest surviving work, Aristophanes' \"Acharnians\", comes from 425 BC. However, comedy dates back as early as 486 BC, when the Dionysia added a competition for comedy to the much earlier competition for tragedy. The comedy of the fifth century is known as Old Comedy, and it comes down to us solely in the eleven surviving plays of Aristophanes, along with a few fragments. Sixty years after the end of Aristophanes' career, the next author of comedies to have any substantial body of work survive is Menander, whose style is known as New Comedy.\n\nTwo historians flourished during Greece's classical age: Herodotus and Thucydides. Herodotus is commonly called the father of history, and his \"History\" contains the first truly literary use of prose in Western literature. Of the two, Thucydides was the more careful historian. His critical use of sources, inclusion of documents, and laborious research made his History of the Peloponnesian War a significant influence on later generations of historians. The greatest achievement of the 4th century was in philosophy. There were many Greek philosophers, but three names tower above the rest: Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle. These have had a profound influence on Western society.\n\nGreek mythology is the body of myths and legends belonging to the ancient Greeks concerning their gods and heroes, the nature of the world, and the origins and significance of their own cult and ritual practices. They were a part of religion in ancient Greece. Modern scholars refer to the myths and study them in an attempt to throw light on the religious and political institutions of Ancient Greece and its civilization, and to gain understanding of the nature of myth-making itself.\n\nGreek religion encompassed the collection of beliefs and rituals practiced in ancient Greece in the form of both popular public religion and cult practices. These different groups varied enough for it to be possible to speak of Greek religions or \"cults\" in the plural, though most of them shared similarities. Also, the Greek religion extended out of Greece and out to neighbouring islands.\n\nMany Greek people recognized the major gods and goddesses: Zeus, Poseidon, Hades, Apollo, Artemis, Aphrodite, Ares, Dionysus, Hephaestus, Athena, Hermes, Demeter, Hestia and Hera; though philosophies such as Stoicism and some forms of Platonism used language that seems to posit a transcendent single deity. Different cities often worshipped the same deities, sometimes with epithets that distinguished them and specified their local nature.\n\nThe earliest surviving philosophy from ancient Greece dates back to the 6th century BC, when according to Aristotle Thales of Miletus was considered to have been the first Greek philosopher. Other influential pre-Socratic philosophers include Pythagoras and Heraclitus. The most famous and significant figures in classical Athenian philosophy, from the 5th to the 3rd centuries BC, are Socrates, his student Plato, and Aristotle, who studied at Plato's Academy before founding his own school, known as the Lyceum. Later Greek schools of philosophy, including the Cynics, Stoics, and Epicureans, continued to be influential after the Roman annexation of Greece, and into the post-Classical world.\n\nGreek philosophy dealt with a wide variety of subjects, including political philosophy, ethics, metaphysics, ontology, and logic, as well as disciplines which are not today thought of as part of philosophy, such as biology and rhetoric.\n\nThe language of ancient Rome was Latin, a member of the Italic family of languages. The earliest surviving inscription in Latin comes from the 7th century BC, on a brooch from Palestrina. Latin from between this point and the early 1st century BC is known as Old Latin. Most surviving Latin literature is Classical Latin, from the 1st century BC to the 2nd century AD. Latin then evolved into Late Latin, in use during the late antique period. Late Latin survived long after the end of classical antiquity, and was finally replaced by written Romance languages around the 9th century AD. Along with literary forms of Latin, there existed various vernacular dialects, generally known as Vulgar Latin, in use throughout antiquity. These are mainly preserved in sources such as graffiti and the Vindolanda tablets.\n\nThe earliest surviving Latin authors, writing in Old Latin, include the playwrights Plautus and Terence. Much of the best known and most highly thought of Latin literature comes from the classical period, with poets such as Virgil, Horace, and Ovid; historians such as Julius Caesar and Tacitus; orators such as Cicero; and philosophers such as Seneca the Younger and Lucretius. Late Latin authors include many Christian writers such as Lactantius, Tertullian and Ambrose; non-Christian authors, such as the historian Ammianus Marcellinus, are also preserved.\n\nAccording to legend, the city of Rome was founded in 753 BC; in reality, there had been a settlement on the site since around 1000 BC, when the Palatine Hill was settled. The city was originally ruled by kings, first Roman, and then Etruscan – according to Roman tradition, the first Etruscan king of Rome, Tarquinius Priscus, ruled from 616 BC. Over the course of the 6th century BC, the city expanded its influence over the entirety of Latium. Around the end of the 6th century – traditionally in 510 BC – the kings of Rome were driven out, and the city became a republic.\n\nAround 387 BC, Rome was sacked by the Gauls following the Battle of the Allia. It soon recovered from this humiliating defeat, however, and in 381 the inhabitants of Tusculum in Latium were made Roman citizens. This was the first time Roman citizenship was extended in this way. Rome went on to expand its area of influence, until by 269 the entirety of the Italian peninsula was under Roman rule. Soon afterwards, in 264, the First Punic War began; it lasted until 241. The Second Punic War began in 218, and by the end of that year, the Carthaginian general Hannibal had invaded Italy. The war saw Rome's worst defeat to that point at Cannae; the largest army Rome had yet put into the field was wiped out, and one of the two consuls leading it was killed. However, Rome continued to fight, annexing much of Spain and eventually defeating Carthage, ending her position as a major power and securing Roman preeminence in the Western Mediterranean.\nThe classical languages of the Ancient Mediterranean world influenced every European language, imparting to each a learned vocabulary of international application. Thus, Latin grew from a highly developed cultural product of the Golden and Silver eras of Latin literature to become the \"international lingua franca\" in matters diplomatic, scientific, philosophic and religious, until the 17th century. Long before this, Latin had evolved into the Romance languages and Ancient Greek into Modern Greek and its dialects. In the specialised science and technology vocabularies, the influence of Latin and Greek is notable. Ecclesiastical Latin, the Roman Catholic Church's official language, remains a living legacy of the classical world in the contemporary world.\n\nLatin had an impact far beyond the classical world. It continued to be the pre-eminent language for serious writings in Europe long after the fall of the Roman empire. The modern Romance languages – such as French, Spanish, and Italian – all derive from Latin. Latin is still seen as a foundational aspect of European culture.\n\nThe legacy of the classical world is not confined to the influence of classical languages. The Roman empire was taken as a model by later European empires, such as the Spanish and British empires. Classical art has been taken as a model in later periods – medieval Romanesque architecture and Enlightenment-era neoclassical literature were both influenced by classical models, to take but two examples, while Joyce's \"Ulysses\" is one of the most influential works of twentieth century literature.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14319807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14319807", "title": "David Crane (historian)", "text": "David Crane (historian)\n\nDavid Crane read history and English at Oxford University before becoming a lecturer at universities in the Netherlands,\nJapan, and Africa. He lives in northwest Scotland.\n\nHe has written two books about Lord Byron and his family; a biography of explorer Robert Falcon Scott; and a book about World War I grave monuments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "639170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=639170", "title": "Diplomatics", "text": "Diplomatics\n\nDiplomatics (in American English, and in most anglophone countries), or diplomatic (in British English), is a scholarly discipline centred on the critical analysis of documents: especially, historical documents. It focuses on the conventions, protocols and formulae that have been used by document creators, and uses these to increase understanding of the processes of document creation, of information transmission, and of the relationships between the facts which the documents purport to record and reality.\n\nThe discipline originally evolved as a tool for studying and determining the authenticity of the official charters and diplomas issued by royal and papal chanceries. It was subsequently appreciated that many of the same underlying principles could be applied to other types of official document and legal instrument, to non-official documents such as private letters, and, most recently, to the metadata of electronic records.\n\nDiplomatics is one of the auxiliary sciences of history. It should not be confused with its sister-discipline of palaeography. In fact, its techniques have more in common with those of the literary disciplines of textual criticism and historical criticism.\n\nDespite the verbal similarity, the discipline has nothing to do with diplomacy. Both terms are derived, by separate linguistic development, from the word \"diploma\", which originally referred to a folded piece of writing material—and thus both to the materials which are the focus of study in diplomatics, and to accreditation papers carried by diplomats.\n\nThe word \"diplomatics\" was effectively coined by the Benedictine monk Jean Mabillon, who in 1681 published his treatise, \"De re diplomatica\" (Latin: roughly, \"The Study of Documents\"). From there, the word entered the French language as \"diplomatique\", and then English as \"diplomatic\" or \"diplomatics\".\n\n\"Webster's Dictionary\" (1828) defines diplomatics as the \"science of diplomas, or of ancient writings, literary and public documents, letters, decrees, charters, codicils, etc., which has for its object to decipher old writings, to ascertain their authenticity, their date, signatures, etc.\"\n\nGiorgio Cencetti (1908–1970) defined the discipline as \"the study of the \"Wesen\" [being] and \"Werden\" [becoming] of documentation, the analysis of genesis, inner constitution and transmission of documents, and of their relationship with the facts represented in them and with their creators\".\n\nThe Commission International de Diplomatique has defined diplomatics as \"the science which studies the tradition, the form and the issuing of written documents\".\n\nMore pragmatically, Peter Beal defines diplomatics as \"the science or study of documents and records, including their forms, language, script and meaning. It involves knowledge of such matters as the established wording and procedures of particular kinds of document, the deciphering of writing, and document analysis and authentication\".\n\nTheo Kölzer defines diplomatics as \"the teaching and the study of charters\". He treats the terms \"charter\", \"diploma\", and \"document\" as broadly synonymous, and refers to the German scholar Harry Bresslau's definition of \"documents\" as \"written declarations recorded in compliance with certain forms alternating according to the difference in person, place, time, and matter, which are meant to serve as a testimony of proceedings of a legal nature\".\n\nProperly speaking, and as usually understood by present-day scholars, diplomatics is concerned essentially with the analysis and interpretation of the linguistic and textual elements of a document. It is, however, closely associated with several parallel disciplines, including palaeography, sigillography, codicology, and provenance studies, all of which are concerned with a document's physical characteristics and history, and which will often be carried out in conjunction with a diplomatic analysis. The term diplomatics is therefore sometimes used in a slightly wider sense, to encompass some of these other areas (as it was in Mabillon's original work, and as is implied in the definitions of both Webster and Beal quoted above). The recent development of the science in non-English Europe is expanding its scope to a cultural history of documentation including aspects of pragmatic literacy or symbolic communication.\n\nChristopher Brooke, a distinguished teacher of diplomatics, referred to the discipline's reputation in 1970 as that of \"a formidable and dismal science ... a kind of game played by a few scholars, most of them medievalists, harmless so long as it does not dominate or obscure historical enquiry; or, perhaps, most commonly of all, an aid to understanding of considerable use to scholars and research students if only they had time to spare from more serious pursuits\".\n\nIn the ancient and medieval periods, the authenticity of a document was considered to derive from the document's place of preservation and storage, in, for example, temples, public offices, and archives. As a result, those with nefarious motives were able to give forged documents a spurious authenticity by depositing them in places of authority. Diplomatics grew from a need to establish new standards of authenticity through the critical analysis of the textual and physical forms of documents.\n\nThe first notable application of diplomatics was by Nicolas of Cusa, in 1433, and Lorenzo Valla, in 1440, who determined, independently, that the Donation of Constantine, which had been used for centuries to legitimize papal temporal authority, was a forgery. Diplomatics became important during the Reformation and Counter-Reformation. Its emergence as a recognisably distinct sub-discipline, however, is generally dated to the publication of Mabillon's \"De re diplomatica\" in 1681. Mabillon had begun studying old documents with a view towards establishing their authenticity as a result of the doubts raised by the Jesuit Daniel van Papenbroek over supposed Merovingian documents from the Abbey of Saint-Denis. During the Middle Ages, the production of spurious charters and other documents had been common, either to provide written documentation of existing rights or to bolster the plausibility of claimed rights. Mabillon's work engendered a far livelier awareness of the potential presence of forged or spurious documents, in the fields of both history and law.\n\nAlthough Mabillon is still widely seen as the \"father\" of diplomatics, a more important milestone in the formation of the battery of practical techniques which make up the modern discipline was the publication of René-Prosper Tassin and Charles-François Toustain's \"Nouveau traité de diplomatique\", which appeared in six volumes in 1750–65.\n\nThe most significant work in English was Thomas Madox's \"Formulare Anglicanum\", published in 1702. In general, however, the discipline was always studied more intensively by continental scholars than by those in Britain.\n\nDiplomatics is often associated with the study of documents of the medieval period. However, scholars such as Luciana Duranti have argued that many of its theories and principles can be adapted and applied to contemporary archival science.\n\nThe study of diplomatics is a valuable tool for historians, enabling them to determine whether alleged historical documents and archives are in fact genuine or forgeries. Its techniques may also be used to help date undated documents.\n\nDiplomatics has many similar applications in the field of law.\n\nSome famous cases in which the principles of diplomatics have been employed have included:\n\nA diplomatic edition is an edition (in print or online) of an historic manuscript text that seeks to reproduce as accurately as possible in typography all significant features of the manuscript original, including spelling and punctuation, abbreviations, deletions, insertions, and other alterations. Similarly, diplomatic transcription attempts to represent by means of a system of editorial signs all features of a manuscript original. The term \"semi-diplomatic\" is used for an edition or transcription that seeks to reproduce only some of these features of the original. A diplomatic edition is thus distinguished from a \"normalized edition\", in which the editor, while not altering the original wording of the text, renders it using normal (modern) orthography.\n\nA diplomatic edition is also to be distinguished both from a \"facsimile edition\", which, in the modern era, normally employs photographic or digital images; and from a \"type facsimile\" (such as Abraham Farley's edition of \"Domesday Book\"), which seeks to reproduce the appearance of the original through the use of a special typeface or digital font.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54679690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54679690", "title": "Elisabeth Kehoe", "text": "Elisabeth Kehoe\n\nElisabeth Sara Kehoe is an author and senior research fellow of the Institute of Historical Research, University of London. She obtained her PhD from the University of London in 2002 on the subject of \"The British Museum: The cultural politics of a national institution\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "376823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376823", "title": "Emmanuel Le Roy Ladurie", "text": "Emmanuel Le Roy Ladurie\n\nEmmanuel Bernard Le Roy Ladurie (born 19 July 1929) is a French historian whose work is mainly focused upon Languedoc in the \"Ancien Régime\", particularly the history of the peasantry. One of the leading historians of France, Le Roy Ladurie has been called the \"standard-bearer\" of the third generation of the \"Annales\" school and the \"rock star of the medievalists\", noted for his work in social history.\n\nLe Roy Ladurie was born in Les Moutiers-en-Cinglais, Calvados. His father was Jacques Le Roy Ladurie, minister of Agriculture for Marshal Philippe Pétain and subsequently a member of the French resistance after breaking with the Vichy regime. Le Roy Ladurie described his childhood in Normandy growing up on his family estate in the countryside as intensely Catholic and royalist in politics.\nThe Le Roy Ladurie family were originally the aristocratic de Roy Laduries descending from a Catholic priest who fell in love with one of his parishioners, dropped out of the priesthood to marry her and was then ennobled by the Crown, but dropped the aristocratic \"de\" from their surname at the time of the French Revolution. Le Roy Ladurie's grandfather was a French Army officer of Catholic royalist views who was dishonorably discharged from the Army in 1902 for refusing orders from the anti-clerical government to close Catholic schools. Afterwards, the former Captain Le Roy Ladurie returned to rural Normandy, being elected mayor of Villeray and was active in organising a union for rural workers. \n\nDuring his childhood, Le Roy Ladurie's hero was Marshal Pétain. Marshal Pétain's fall from grace from being the hero of Verdun and one of France's most loved men to the reviled collaborator and one of France's most hated men, sentenced to death for high treason for his collaboration with Germany had a major influence on Le Roy Ladurie's sense of history. Speaking of the rise and fall of Marshal Pétain from hero to traitor as an example of the vicissitudes of history, Le Roy Ladurie in a 1998 interview stated: \"I have remained fascinated since then with what we call decline and fall. France is full of people who became very important, then became nothing. My fascination is probably due to the fact that my own family was once important and then became zero. There was a contrast between my own career and the feelings in my family.\" Because his father had been a minister in the Vichy government, his son grew up in an atmosphere of family shame and disgrace. The historian was educated in Caen at the Collège Saint-Joseph, in Paris at the Lycée Henri-IV and in Sceaux at the Lycée Lakanal. He was awarded an \"agrégation\" in history after studying at the École Normale Supérieure and a \"doctorat ès lettres\" from the University of Paris. Le Roy Ladurie has taught at the Lycée de Montpellier, the University of Montpellier, the École Pratique des Haute Études in Paris, the University of Paris and at the Collège de France, where he occupied from 1973 to 1999 the chair of History of Modern Civilization and became emeritus professor.\n\nLe Roy Ladurie was a member of the French Communist Party (PCF) between 1945 and 1956. His devoutly Catholic parents had expected him to become a Catholic priest and were scandalized that their son should become an ardent Communist and atheist. The Great Depression of the 1930s together with France's defeat in 1940 at the hands of Germany had caused many people in France to lose faith in both capitalism and liberal democracy. The leading role played by the French Communists in the Resistance during the German occupation and the willingness of many of the traditional French elites to support the Vichy regime together with the seemingly success achieved by the Soviet regime's planned economy and its \"scientific socialism\" led Le Roy Ladurie like many other people of his generation in France to embrace Communism as the best hope for humanity. The PCF proudly billed themselves as the \"party of 75,000 shot\"-a reference to the claim that the Germans had shot 75,000 French Communists between 1941-44 (the true figure was actually 10,000 French Communists executed by the Germans between 1941–44), but regardless the PCF had acquired tremendous prestige in 1940s France as a result of its role in the Resistance. The German occupation had been a profoundly traumatic experience for the French, not the least because unlike World War I where the \"Union sacrée\" proclaimed by Raymond Poincaré in 1914 had united the left and the right together against the common German enemy, World War II had seen a civil war in France. The Resistance had fought not only the Germans, but also the policemen, gendarmes and the much feared \"Milice\" of the Vichy regime. The \"Milice\" were a collection of French fascists, gangsters and assorted adventurers used by the Vichy regime to hunt down and murder \"résistants\", who in their turn assassinated members of the \"Milice\". Given this background where many French young people had seen first-hand the pretty streets, avenues and squares of French cities, towns and villages sullied by acts of outrageous cruelty and violence, Le Roy Ladurie described his generation as a scarred one, saying: \"It was dangerous for young people during the war. If we are subjected to violence, we will in turn be violent towards others. It is like someone who is sodomised and then sodomises others.\" Le Roy Ladurie explained becoming a Communist as a reaction to his war-time youth.\n\nWhen the Hungarian writer Arthur Koestler's 1940 novel \"Darkness at Noon\" was translated into French in 1949, Le Roy Ladurie at the time saw it as confirming the greatness of Stalinism instead of being the condemnation that Koestler had intended. Koestler's novel concerned a prominent Soviet Communist and Old Bolshevik named Rubashov who was arrested and charged with crimes against the Soviet Union that he did not commit, but which he willingly confessed to in a show trial after hearing an appeal to Party discipline. The character of Rubashov is generally believed to be modeled by Koestler after Nikolai Bukharin, a prominent Old Bolshevik and the leader of the \"rightist\" (i.e. moderate) faction in the Communist Party who was shot in 1938 after a show trial in Moscow which Bukharin confessed to a fantastic array of bizarre and improbable charges such as being an agent of foreign powers, sabotage, \"wrecking\", and working with Leon Trotsky from his exile in Mexico City and the \"White Guard\" leaders in Paris to overthrow Stalin. Bukharin's real crime had been to oppose Stalin in the post-Lenin succession struggle in the 1920s and for advocating continuing the New Economic Policy-which allocated control of the \"commanding heights\" of the Soviet economy to the state while allowing free enterprise in the rest of the economy-as a viable model for the future. It was not until 1928 when Stalin brought in the First Five Year Plan that full socialism arrived in the Soviet Union, a policy choice that Bukharin had opposed. The image of the Bukharin-like character Rubashov confessing to crimes that he did not commit in order to uphold the greatness of Communism in \"Darkness At Noon\" caused was sensational at the time, but the truth was rather more brutal and sordid in that Bukharin had been psychologically \"broken\" after months of torture by the NKVD, and had been reduced to such a state that he was willing to \"confess\" to anything. Le Roy Ladurie wrote in a 1949 essay about \"Darkness At Noon\" that: \"Rubashov was right to sacrifice his life and especially his revolutionary honor so that the best of all possible regimes could be established one day\". Le Roy Ladurie was to subsequently to admit that he rather misunderstood the message of \"Darkness At Noon\". At the height of the Cold War in the early 1950s, Le Roy Ladurie described the atmosphere inside the Party as \"une intensité liturgique\".\n\nIn 1955, Le Roy Ladurie married Madeleine Pupponi by whom he had one son and one daughter. Le Roy Laduire left the PCF after doubts caused by the 1956 Hungarian Revolution became too much for him. Le Roy Ladurie was later to write that the sight of Soviet tanks crushing the ordinary people of Hungary in 1956 who were merely demanding basic human rights led to reject his optimism of the late 1940s that the Soviet Union represented the best hope of humanity and instead led him to the conclusion that communism was an inhumane, totalitarian ideology that oppressed people in the Soviet Union, Hungary and elsewhere. In November 1956, Le Roy Ladurie resigned from the Communist Party in protest against the Soviet crushing of the Hungarian revolt. Le Roy Ladurie's break with the PCF did not mean a break with the left and leaving the PCF, he joined the Socialist Party, running as a Socialist candidate in Montpellier in 1957, winning 2.5% of the vote. In 1963, a disillusioned Le Roy Ladurie left the Socialists.\n\nLe Roy Ladurie has often written for \"Le Nouvel Observateur\", \"L'Express,\" and \"Le Monde\" newspapers, and appeared on French television. In France, historians have far more social prestige than they do in the English-speaking world, and to be a successful historian in France is become something of a celebrity.\n\nLe Roy Ladurie first attracted attention with his doctoral thesis, \"Les paysans de Languedoc\", which was published as a book in 1966 and translated into English as \"The Peasants of Languedoc\" in 1974. In this study of the peasantry of Languedoc over several centuries, Le Roy Ladurie employed a huge range of quantitative information such as tithe records, wage books, tax receipts, rent receipts and profit records, together with the use of the theories of such thinkers as Ernest Labrousse, Michel Foucault, David Ricardo, Fernand Braudel, Claude Lévi-Strauss, Thomas Malthus, François Simiand, Sigmund Freud, and Max Weber, to contend that the history of Languedoc was \"\"l'histoire immobile\".\" He argued that the history of Langudedoc was marked by waves of growth and decline that in essence changed very little over the passage of time. Le Roy Ladurie acknowledged his debt to Braudel that had argued that it was climate and geography that shaped the course of history, but felt that Braudel had gone too far in using geography and climate as causal agents in history. Instead, Le Roy Ladurie felt that culture and economics were just as important as causal agents as the nature of the land and the weather over it. Influenced by the work of his mentor Fernand Braudel, Le Roy Ladurie set out to write a \"histoire totale\" (total history) of Languedoc from the 15th to the 18th centuries that would embrace political, cultural, economic, social history and environmental history all integrated into one.\n\nLe Roy Ladurie proposed that the determining feature of life in Languedoc was the culture of the people who lived there. In his book, Le Roy Ladurie maintained that the reason why the people of Languedoc could not break the cycles of advance and decline was not so much technological factors, but was due to culture that prevented the people from developing more progressive technology and farming practices. In \"Les paysans de Languedoc\", Le Roy Ladurie broke the prevailing Marxist view that dominated French historiography at the time that the history of early modern France from the 15th century to the 18th century was the ever-accelerating accumulation of property and wealthy by capitalists. Instead, Le Roy Ladurie contended that in Languedoc there were cycles of economic advance and decline from the 15th to the 18th centuries. According to Le Roy Ladurie, there were several cycles, namely: \n\nAt the beginning of the 18th century, Languedoc society was not much different from where it had been two centuries earlier in Le Roy Ladurie's opinion, thus making this entire period one of \"l'historie immobile\". Le Roy Ladurie saw this as the result of the inability of the farmers of Languedoc to increase the productivity of the land, writing: \"Some have spoken of a \"natural\" ceiling on productive resources. But 'nature' in this case is actually culture; it is the customs, the way of life, the mentality of the people; it is a whole formed by technical knowledge and a system of valus, by the means employed and the ends pursued\". As such, Le Roy Ladurie argued that the unwillingness of the peasants of Languedoc to engage in technologically innovative farming techniques to increase the productivity of the land as was happening during the same period in England was the result of the \"lack of the conscience, the culture, the morals, the politics, the education, the reformist spirit, and the unfettered longing for success\" that characterized the entire culture of Languedoc during these centuries. However, Le Roy Ladurie pointed out that he had traced was not a cycle in the proper sense as Languedoc did not return in the 18th century back to where it had been in the 15th century. Even through this was overall a period of economic stagnation, Le Roy Ladurie noted that were \"islands\" of growth and change in Languedoc. Some of the more enterprising farmers started to grow silk and vines, with the latter laying the foundations of the Languedoc wine industry. Other farmers switched over to cloth manufacture. In conclusion, Le Roy Ladurie argued that these economic changes together with the beginning of elementary schools where the sons of farmers acquired some literary, the decline of religious fanaticism and a \"a general improvement in behavior\" all come together to bring about the \"economic takeoff\" of the 18th century, where the cycles of decline and advance were finally broken.\n\nIn Le Roy Ladurie's view, there were \"structures\" comprising long-term and slowly changing material and mental patterns which underlined the more dramatic and, in his opinion, less important \"conjoncture\" of trends and events, upon which traditionally historians have focused. Le Roy Ladurie wrote that he was studying in \"Les paysans de Languedoc\" that was the relationship between the \"vie culturelle\" that was the \"superstructure\" of beliefs, politics and thought as it was changed slowly by the \"vie matérielle\" of the environment and geography that was the \"base\" that the superstructure rested on. Like Braudel, Le Roy Ladurie believes that it is the history of the \"structures\" that really mattered, but unlike Braudel, Le Roy Ladurie has expressed an interest in biography and the \"histoire événementielle\" (history of events), which Braudel dismissed as irrelevant. However, Le Roy Ladurie stated that while studying \"histoire événementielle\" is interesting, it is the \"structures\" of French society that explain the course of French history.\n\nLe Roy Ladurie's best-known work is \"Montaillou, village occitan de 1294 à 1324\" (1975), a study of the village of Montaillou in the region of Languedoc in the south of France during the age of the Cathar heresy. \"Montaillou\" was a bestseller in both France and after its translation into English in the United States and Great Britain, and remains Le Roy Ladurie's most popular book by far. As a result of the book, the previously little-known village of Montaillou become a popular tourist destination.\n\nIn \"Montaillou\", Le Roy Ladurie used the records of the Inquisition of Jacques Fournier, Bishop of Pamiers, to develop a multi-layered study of life in a small French village over the course of several years. Le Roy Ladurie used the records of interrogations conducted by Fournier to offer a picture of both the material and mental worlds of the inhabitants of Montaillou. \"Montaillou\" was much praised by reviewers in both France and the English-speaking world for its vivid, atmospheric recreation of the everyday life of the people of Montaillou in the early 14th century. Many critics have noted that for Le Roy Ladurie, the village priest Father Pierre Clergue, an ardent womanizer whose vow of celibacy meant nothing and who apparently slept with most of the women of Montaillou seemed to be something of hero for the historian. Clergue's affair with the local aristocrat and noted beauty, the Countess Béatrice de Planisoles formed one of the central stories that Le Roy Ladurie related in \"Montaillou\" with much sympathy for the doomed couple.\n\nCritics of Le Roy Ladurie have argued that the Holy Inquisition was an instrument of judicial repression for whom torture or the threat of torture were routine methods. The Canadian historian Norman Cantor argued that none of the people questioned by Fournier had appeared willingly before the Holy Inquisition, and that therefore the Fournier Register which Le Roy Ladurie had used as his main source for \"Montaillou\" is not reliable. Other critics have noted that the people questioned by Fournier spoke in Occitan, had their remarks written down in Latin and that Le Roy Ladurie had translated the text into French and have wondered if something has been lost in the translation.\n\nIn France, the \"intelligentsia\" has more prestige than does the \"intelligentsia\" in the English-speaking world and as such, intellectuals are expected to take stands on the major issues of the day. In January 1978, Le Roy Ladurie was a founding member of the \"Comité des intellectuals pour l'Europe des libertés\" (Committee of Intellectuals for a Europe of liberties), an anti-communist group of liberal French intellectuals opposed to the powerful influence of the French Communist Party on French intellectual life and the alliance of the Socialists and the Communists which they saw as a threat to French democracy. The \"Comité des intellectuals pour l'Europe des libertés\" was not a conservative group, and instead was opposed to Communism from a liberal vantage-point, declaring itself opposed to both \"the unarticulated cry and pure revolt on one hand and absolute knowledge and totalizing ideology on the other\", damning the \"fatal socialist-statist equation\" as offering the end of the Republic and everything it stood for. In its founding manifesto, the \"Comité des intellectuals pour l'Europe des libertés\" declared its intention \"to defend the synonymy of these three words: Europe, culture, freedom\". Significantly, the committee did not limit its remit to France or even Western Europe, instead proclaiming its intention to defend liberty in all of Europe, Western and Eastern. He analysed his political engagement and Communism in \"Ouverture, société, pouvoir: de l’Édit de Nantes à la chute du communisme\" (2004) and \"Les grands procès politiques, ou la pédagogie infernale\" (2002).\n\nAnother work was \"Le Carnaval de Romans: de la chandeleur au mercredi des cendres\" (translated into English as \"Carnival in Romans\") which dealt with the 1580 massacre of about twenty artisans at the annual carnival in the town of Romans-sur-Isère, France. In this book, Le Roy Ladurie used the only two surviving eyewitness accounts of the massacre (one of which was hostile towards to the victims of the massacre by Guérin, the other sympathetic yet often inaccurate by Piémond), together with such information as plague lists and tax lists, to treat the massacre as a microcosm of the political, social and religious conflicts of rural society in the latter half of the 16th century in France. This book provides an example of a micro-historical approach to the social structure of the town of Romans and tax rebellions in early modern France.\n\nOther more recent treatments of social history by Le Roy Ladurie have included \"La sorcière de Jasmin\" (translated into English as \"Jasmin's Witch\") and \"Le siècle des Platter, 1499-1628\" (translated into English as \"The Beggar and the Professor: A Sixteenth Century Family Drama\"). In \"Jasmin's Witch\", Le Roy Ladurie following the lead of Carlo Ginzburg, who argued that the idea of witchcraft as held by peasants was very different from the idea of witchcraft held by judges and churchmen. To understand the \"total social fact of witchcraft,\" Le Roy Ladurie used the 1842 poem \"Françouneto\" written by Jacques Boè and based on a traditional French peasant folk tale. Le Roy Ladurie contended that the poem contains many authentic traces of popular beliefs about witchcraft in rural France during the 17th and 18th centuries. Le Roy Ladurie argued that the \"crime\" of the \"witch\" Françouneto was the violation of the unwritten social code of \"limited wealth,\" namely that she increased her own wealth at the expense of others. In \"The Beggar and the Professor\", Le Roy Ladurie used the letters and memoirs of the Platter family to examine the social values of the 16th century, especially in regards to religion, medicine, crime, learning, and taxes. Another work of social history by Le Roy Ladurie was his 1982 book \"Love, Death, and Money in the Pay d'Oc, The French Peasantry: 1450-1660\", which as it title indicates examined the views held by French peasants about love, death and money.\n\nThough best known for his work in \"microhistory\", Le Roy Ladurie has also examined the political history of France between 1460 and 1774 in a two-volume history. The first volume was \"L'Etat royal: de Louis XI à Henri IV, 1460-1610\" (translated into English as\" The French Royal State: 1460-1610\"). In this book, Le Roy Ladurie argued that the major concerns of the French Crown were the economy, the Reformation and aristocratic politics, and that the main reasons for the growth of the French state was the need to raise revenue to pay for military expansion into Italy, Provence and Burgundy and its rivalry with Spain over mastery of western Europe.\n\nIn the second volume, \"Ancien Régime: de Louis XIII à Louis XV, 1610-1774\" (translated into English as \"The Ancien Régime\"), Le Roy Ladurie argued that there was a close connection between the domestic and foreign policies of the French Crown. In particular, Le Roy Ladurie argued that periods of authoritarianism in domestic policy coincided with periods of aggression in foreign policy, and that periods of liberalism in domestic policy coincided with periods of a pacific foreign policy. In order to pay for war, the French state had to increase taxation to raise the necessary funds. In \"Ancien Régime\" France, society was divided into three legal categories; the First Estate (the Catholic Church), the Second Estate (the nobility) and the Third Estate (the commoners). The first two estates, which comprised the more wealthier elements of French society were exempt from taxation and to make up the shortfall in revenue, the Third Estate was taxed more heavily than what had been the case if the tax burden in French society was spread with greater equality. Le Roy Ladurie argued that because war was so expensive, the French state always had to drastically increase taxation in times of conflict. And that because of the highly unequal nature of the French tax system, the increased taxes had to be accompanied with increased repression to crush the social resistance generated by the higher taxes. The three men who dominated French politics in the 17th century, namely the Cardinal Richelieu, Cardinal Mazarin and King Louis XIV were all obsessed with winning \"la gloire\" (the glory) of making France into the world's greatest power, which meant that the 17th century was a period of constant warfare where France was almost always at war with some other power to win \"la gloire\". As a result, anti-tax revolts frequently broke out all over France in the 17th century as the Third Estate attempted to reject the oppressively heavy taxation needed to pay for the wars intended to win \"la gloire\". All of the anti-tax revolts were crushed with ferocious brutality by the Crown to send the message that it was folly on the part of ordinary people to challenge the might of the French state. Despite certain lapses in the 1750s, Le Roy Ladurie argued that the reign of King Louis XV was characterized by liberalism at home and peace abroad while the rule of Cardinal Richelieu and King Louis XIV was marked by aggression and authoritarianism. At the end of his two-volume history, Le Roy Ladurie stated that the growth of popularity of Enlightenment ideas, anti-clericalism, and liberalism had by 1774 already placed France on the road to the French Revolution. The American historian Stuart Carroll commented that in these books of the 1990s, Le Roy Ladurie was according the decisions individuals and \"histoire événementielle\" a level of importance in influencing history that he had rejected in his 1973 book \"Le Territoire de l'historien\" where he had claimed the quantitative methodology and the study of long-term structural changes had replaced \"histoire événementielle\" and biographies as the main focus of the work of a historian.\n\nLadurie's mentor was Fernand Braudel, a prominent member of the Annales School and one of the most prolific contemporary historians.\n\nAt the beginning of the 1970s, Ladurie founded the movement of the \"Nouvelle histoire\" (New History). Le Roy Ladurie is a leading champion of \"microhistory,\" in which a historian uses the study of an event, locality, family or life to reveal the \"structures\" which underlie life in the particular period under study. Some, like Niall Ferguson, have questioned the value of \"microhistory,\" arguing that it is wrong to assume that the study of one village or one incident in one town or one family reveals wider patterns of life in France, let alone the rest of Europe. Another line of criticism has centered around Le Roy Ladurie's use of the term \"structures.\" His critics contend that he has never clearly defined the term, nor explained why \"structures\" change over time, or even whether the \"structures\" Le Roy Ladurie purports to find exist.\n\nLe Roy Ladurie has also worked on the history of French regions (\"Histoire de France des régions\", 2004) and on anthropometric history as well as on the impact of climate changes on human history. Besides writing books, Le Roy Ladurie is a prolific essayist writing on variety of subjects such as the utility of computers as method of historical research, rates of delinquency in the French Army in the 19th century, the spread of global diseases and the belief of French peasants that magic could be used to generate impotence. The latter was a reference to the widespread practice of French peasant men in the Middle Ages and the early modern period of paying witches to use their (supposed) magical powers to make their rivals in love go impotent. Le Roy Ladurie is also known as one of the first modern environmental historians because his work focused on human agency in environmental change, as well as environmental factors in human history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1756682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1756682", "title": "François-Xavier Garneau", "text": "François-Xavier Garneau\n\nFrançois-Xavier Garneau (June 15, 1809 – February 2 or February 3, 1866) was a nineteenth-century French Canadian notary, poet, civil servant and liberal who wrote a three-volume history of the French Canadian nation entitled \"Histoire du Canada\" between 1845 and 1848.\n\nGarneau was born in Quebec City, educated at Quebec seminary, studied law, and was admitted as a notary in 1830. Subsequently, he became clerk of the legislative assembly, member of the council of public instruction, and city clerk of Quebec, which office he held from 1845 until his death on February 2 or February 3, 1866. Garneau was an honorary member of literary and historical societies in the United States and Canada, and for several years president of the Institut Canadien of Quebec.\n\nGarneau argued that conquest was a tragedy, the consequence of which was a perpetual struggle against the forces of English Canada for the French Canadian nation; this struggle would continue into the future as long as French Canadians were under the oppressive reign of the British. The book was originally written as a response to the Durham report, which claimed that French Canadian culture was stagnant and that it would be best served through Anglophone assimilation. It was first translated in 1866 and by then \"the accepted national history\" of French Canadians.\n\n\nThe François-Xavier Garneau Medal is the highest award given by the Canadian Historical Association and is given once every five years for an outstanding Canadian contribution to historical research. Recipients were: Louise Dechêne (1980), Michael Bliss (1985), John M. Beattie (1990), Joy Parr (1995), Gérard Bouchard (2000), Timothy Brook (2005), John C. Weaver (2010) and Bettina Bradbury (2015).\n\nCanadian actor Donald Sutherland narrated the following quote from one of his poems at the opening ceremonies of the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18675402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18675402", "title": "Gerald Steinacher", "text": "Gerald Steinacher\n\nGerald Steinacher (born 2 September 1970) is an Associate Professor of History and Hymen Rosenberg Professor of Judaic Studies at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. He was a Joseph A. Schumpeter Research Fellow at Harvard University during 2010-2011 and in 2009 a Visiting Scholar at the Center for European Studies at Harvard University. He lectured at the Universities of Innsbruck (Austria), Luzern (Switzerland) and Munich (Germany). In 2006 he was a Center for Advanced Holocaust Studies Fellow at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, DC.\n\nSteinacher’s research focuses on 20th Century Central European History with emphasis on Italian Fascism, National Socialism, Holocaust and intelligence studies. He has published two books, edited nine volumes, and wrote a large number of book chapters and journal articles on these topics. His post-doctoral research (Habilitation) examined the postwar fate of Nazis and Holocaust perpetrators and the institutions facilitating their escape from Europe. The result of this research came out as a book entitled \"Nazis on the Run: How Hitler's Henchmen Fled Justice\". This academic book was published in several languages with the English edition put out by Oxford University Press in 2011. The book was recently awarded the 2011 National Jewish Book Award in the Holocaust category.\n\n\nGerald Steinacher in the Wall Street Journal \n\n"}
{"id": "10195550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10195550", "title": "Grigory Bongard-Levin", "text": "Grigory Bongard-Levin\n\nGrigory Maksimovich Bongard-Levin () (1933–2008) was a Russian historian specializing on Ancient India and the history of Central Asia. He also published on the history of Russian emigration. He was a member of the Russian Academy of Sciences and was awarded the USSR State Prize in 1988. In 2006 he was awarded India's Third Highest civilian award Padma Bhushan which ranked below Bharat Ratna and Padma Vibhushan for his contribution in the field of Ancient India history\n\n"}
{"id": "23006542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23006542", "title": "International Council on Archives", "text": "International Council on Archives\n\nThe International Council on Archives (ICA; French: \"Conseil international des archives\") is an international non-governmental organization which exists to promote international cooperation for archives and archivists. It was set up in 1948, with Charles Samaran, the then director of the Archives nationales de France, as chairman, and membership is open to national and international organisations, professional groups and individuals. In 2015 it grouped together about 1400 institutional members in 199 countries and territories. Its mission is to promote the conservation, development and use of the world's archives.\n\nICA has close partnership links with UNESCO, and is part of the International Committee of the Blue Shield (ICBS), which works to protect the world's cultural heritage threatened by wars and natural disasters, and which is based in The Hague.\n\nICA's mission statement reads: \"The International Council on Archives (ICA) is dedicated to the effective management of records and the preservation, care and use of the world's archival heritage through its representation of records and archive professionals across the globe. Archives are an incredible resource. They are the documentary by-product of human activity and as such are an irreplaceable witness to past events, underpinning democracy, the identity of individuals and communities, and human rights. But they are also fragile and vulnerable. The ICA strives to protect and ensure access to archives through advocacy, setting standards, professional development, and enabling dialogue between archivists, policy makers, creators and users of archives. The ICA is a neutral, non-governmental organisation, funded by its membership, which operates through the activities of that diverse membership. For over sixty years ICA has united archival institutions and practitioners across the globe to advocate for good archival management and the physical protection of recorded heritage, to produce reputable standards and best practices, and to encourage dialogue, exchange, and transmission of this knowledge and expertise across national borders.\"\n\nThe ICA is organized in thirteen regional branches with varying levels of activity, including the Caribbean branch (CARBICA), the Eastern and Southern Africa branch (ESARBICA), the South and West Asian branch (SWARBICA), the European branch (EURBICA) and the Pacific Region branch (PARBICA). The North American branch (NAANICA) operates \"virtually\" and by contributions to meetings of the Society of American Archivists and the Association of Canadian Archivists. ICA has twelve professional sections, which provide much of the organization's archival content and activity, including the Section for Archival Education (SAE), the Section for Architectural Records (SAR), the Section for Business Archives (SBA), the Section for Archives of Literature and Art (SLA), the Section for Local, Municipal and Territorial Archives (SLMT), the Section on Sports Archives (SPO), the Section for Archives of Parliaments and Political Parties (SPP) and the Section for University and Research Institutions (SUV).\n\nIt is based in the Marais quarter of the 3rd arrondissement of Paris, rue des Francs-Bourgeois, in the premises of the French national archives.\n\nMember groups include the Arxivers sense Fronteres, among others.\n\nICA publishes a review \"Comma\", which appears once or twice a year and includes material in United Nations languages as well as German.\n\nEvery fourth year, ICA hosts its major International Congress. In recent years, these have been held in Vienna (2004), Kuala Lumpur (2008), Brisbane (2012) and Seoul (2016). The next ICA Congress will be held in Abu Dhabi in 2020. Until 2011, ICA also hosted the annual meetings of CITRA, the International Conference of the Round Table on Archives, which brought together heads of national archival institutions, presidents of national professional associations and the ICA sections, branches and committees. The last three CITRA meetings were held in Malta (2009); Oslo, Norway (2010) and Toledo, Spain (2011). After the CITRA in Toledo, ICA replaced CITRA meetings with an annual conference. The first three annual conferences were in European venues: Brussels (2013), Girona (2014) and Reykjavik (2015). The venues for future annual conferences will be Mexico City in 2017, Yaoundé in 2018, Edinburgh in 2019, before the four-yearly Congress in Abu Dhabi in 2020.\n\nIn 1993, the International Council on Archives approved the first draft of ISAD(G) (General International Standard Archival Description), intended to be a standard for elements that should be included in a finding aid register for archival documents produced by corporations, persons and families.\n\nA revised version, known as ISAD(G)2, was issued in 2000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52944827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52944827", "title": "Jacob Cornelis van Slee", "text": "Jacob Cornelis van Slee\n\nJacob Cornelis van Slee (1841–1929) was a Dutch Reformed clergyman and scholar. He was the author of a study of the Windesheim Congregation, \"De kloostervereeniging van Windesheim\" (Leiden, 1874), and between 1875 and 1900 contributed articles on theologians to the \"Allgemeine Deutsche Biographie\".\n\nSlee was born at Hillegom on 23 September 1841, the son of Cornelis van Slee and Anna Barbera Geertruida Romeny. He studied Theology at the Athenaeum Illustre of Amsterdam and at Leiden University. In 1868 he married Elisabeth Kenno and was appointed minister at Herwijnen. Appointments followed at Oostzaan in 1873, at Drumpt in 1877, and at Brielle in 1881. In 1891 he became preacher in Deventer, and in 1892 librarian of the city's Athenaeum Illustre (a sort of liberal arts college). The library had been founded by the city in 1597, on the basis of a medieval collection, and Slee marked the third centenary by publishing a catalogue of the library's holdings.\n\nSlee retired as a preacher in 1914, and in 1914 he received an honorary doctorate from the University of Groningen. In 1917 he organised a major exhibition on Luther in the library at Deventer, to mark the fourth centenary of the beginning of the Protestant Reformation. His wife died in 1920. He himself retired as librarian in 1928, and died on 21 November 1929. He was buried in Diepenveen, where he had lived since retiring as a preacher in 1913.\n\n"}
{"id": "3945163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3945163", "title": "Jadunath Sarkar", "text": "Jadunath Sarkar\n\nSir Jadunath Sarkar CIE (10 December 1870 – 19 May 1958) was a prominent Indian Bengali historian.\n\nBorn in Karachmaria village, he was the son of Rajkumar Sarkar, the Zamindar of Karachmaria in Natore in Bengal. In 1891, he passed the B.A. examination with honours in English and History from Presidency College, Calcutta. In 1892, he stood First in the First Class in the M.A. examination of Calcutta University in English. In 1897, he received the Premchand-Roychand Scholarship.\n\nHe became a teacher in English literature in 1893 at Ripon College, Calcutta (later renamed Surendranath College). In 1898, he started teaching at Presidency College, Calcutta. In 1899, he was transferred to Patna College, Patna, where he would continue teaching until 1926. In between, in 1917-1919, he taught Modern Indian History in Benaras Hindu University and during 1919-1923 he taught in Ravenshaw College, Cuttack, now in Odisha. In 1923, he became an honorary member of the Royal Asiatic Society of London. In August 1926, he was appointed as the Vice Chancellor of Calcutta University. In 1928, he joined as Sir W. Meyer Lecturer in Madras University.\n\nSarkar was honored by Britain with a Companion of the Order of the Indian Empire CIE and knighted in the 1929 Birthday Honours list. He was invested with his knighthood at Simla by the acting Viceroy, Lord Goschen, on 22 August 1929.\n\nThe Centre for Studies in Social Sciences, Calcutta an autonomous research centre has been located at 10, Lake Terrace, Sarkar's house, from 1973 to 2000. This house was handed over to the state government by Sarkar's wife, Kadambini Sarkar, just before she died. The building now houses the newly established Jadunath Sarkar Resource Centre for Historical Research, which has been established under the aegis of the CSSSC. The Jadunath Bhavan Museum and Resource Centre, a museum-cum-archive was set up at Jadunath Bhavan on 1 February 2015.\n\nAcademically, Jos J. L. Gommans compares Sarkar's work with those of the Aligarh historians, noting that while the historians from the Aligarh worked mainly on the mansabdari system and gunpowder technology in the Mughal Empire, Sarkar concentrated on military tactics and sieges. Kaushik Roy notes that the works of Jadunath Sarkar along with those of Jagadish Narayan Sarkar are now \"forgotten due to pressure of Marxism and Postmodernism\".\n\nHe has been called the \"greatest Indian historian of his time\" and one of the greatest in the world, whose erudite works \"have established a tradition of honest and scholarly historiography\" by E. Sreedharan. He has also been compared with Theodor Mommsen and Leopold von Ranke.\n\nPublished works by Sarkar include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13388111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13388111", "title": "Joan Breton Connelly", "text": "Joan Breton Connelly\n\nJoan Breton Connelly is an American classical archaeologist and Professor of Classics and Art History at New York University. She is Director of the Yeronisos Island Excavations and Field School in Cyprus. Connelly was awarded a MacArthur Fellowship in 1996. She received the Archaeological Institute of America Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching Award in 2007 and held the Lillian Vernon Chair for Teaching Excellence at New York University from 2002-2004. She is an Honorary Citizen of the Municipality of Peyia, Republic of Cyprus.\n\nConnelly's scholarship focuses on Greek art, myth, and religion, and includes a groundbreaking reinterpretation of the Parthenon and its sculptures. In \"The Parthenon Enigma: A New Understanding of the West's Most Iconic Building and the People who Made It,\" Connelly presents her reading of the Parthenon's sculptural program within its full historic, mythological, and religious contexts. \"The New York Times Book Review\" named \"The Parthenon Enigma\" a Notable Book of the Year 2014. \"The Daily Beast\" named it one of the top ten works of nonfiction for 2014 and \"Metropolis Magazine\" named it one of the year's Top Ten Books in Architecture and Design. The Phi Beta Kappa Society honored \"The Parthenon Enigma\" in 2015 with the Ralph Waldo Emerson Award for its significant contribution to the humanities.\n\nA cultural historian, Connelly has examined topics ranging from female agency, to ritual space, landscape, life cycles, identity, reception, and complexity. In her \"Portrait of a Priestess: Women and Ritual in Ancient Greece\", Connelly challenges long held beliefs concerning the \"invisibility\" of women in ancient Greece and brings together far-flung archaeological evidence for women's leadership roles in the religious life of the city. \"Portrait of a Priestess\" was named as one of the 100 Notable Books of the Year for 2007 by the New York Times Book Review, and the Association of American Publishers named it the best book in Classics and Ancient History for 2007. In 2009, \"Portrait of a Priestess\" won the Archaeological Institute of America's James R. Wiseman Book Award.\n\nA field archaeologist, Connelly has worked at Corinth, Athens, and Nemea in Greece, at Paphos, Kourion, and Ancient Marion in Cyprus, and on the island of Failaka off the coast of Kuwait. In 1985, she served as consultant for the design and installation of the Hellenistic galleries in the Kuwait National Museum. Since 1990, Connelly has directed the NYU Yeronisos Island Excavations and Field School just off western Cyprus. Here, she has pioneered eco-archaeology, undertaking floral and faunal surveys, annual bird counts, and establishing guidelines sensitive to the ways in which archaeological intervention impacts the natural environment. Her fieldwork has focused on cross-cultural exchange in the Hellenized East during the centuries following the death of Alexander the Great.\n\nConnelly received an A.B. in Classics from Princeton University. She received her M.A. and PhD in Classical and Near Eastern Archaeology from Bryn Mawr College, where she later served as an Assistant Dean of the Undergraduate College, Lecturer in Classical Archaeology, and as a member of the Board of Trustees. Connelly has held visiting fellowships at All Souls College, Magdalen College, New College, and Corpus Christi College, Oxford University, and has been a Visiting Fellow at the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study, Harvard University. She held the Norbert Schimmel Fellowship and Classical Fellowships at the Metropolitan Museum of Art and was a Visiting Scholar in Anthropology at the Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago. Connelly was Hetty Goldman Member at the School of Historical Studies, Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, in 2010-11 and Visitor of the Institute in 2015. She was appointed Visiting Professor in the Departement Altertumswissenschaften, University of Basel, Switzerland, in 2012. She returns to All Souls, Oxford, as Visiting Fellow in 2016. Connelly is a fellow of the Society of Antiquaries of London, the Royal Geographical Society, the Explorers Club, and the Society of Woman Geographers. She is a Trustee of the Association of Members of the Institute of Advanced Study, the Cyprus American Archaeological Research Institute, the Society for the Preservation of the Greek Heritage, and the Pharos Arts Foundation.\n\nConnelly served on the Cultural Property Advisory Committee, Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs, U.S. Department of State, from 2003 through 2011. For over twenty years Professor Connelly has team taught a popular course at NYU titled \"Ancient Art at Risk: Conservation, Ethics, and Cultural Heritage Policy\" with physical chemist, Professor Norbert Baer of the Institute of Fine Arts Conservation Center.\n\nIn collaboration with architect Demetri Porphyrios, Connelly submitted a proposal for the World Trade Center Site Memorial Competition in 2003.\n\nConnelly has been interviewed on the Parthenon by Jeffrey Brown for the PBS NewsHour. She has spoken on Greek Priestesses for Andrew Marr's \"Start the Week\" program, BBC Radio 4. In 2007, Connelly appeared in (The History Channel) where she discussed classical antecedents for epic themes in the Star Wars saga. In 2008, she appeared in \"Indiana Jones: The Ultimate Quest\" (The History Channel, Lucasfilms and Prometheus Entertainment), in which she discussed new technologies in field archaeology, the importance of stratigraphic context, and the global illicit antiquities market. In 2012, her excavations of Yeronisos Island, Cyprus, were featured on ABC's Born to Explore with Richard Wiese. She has also contributed to \"The Wall Street Journal\" and the \"New York Daily News\".\n\nIn April 2015, renowned physicist Freeman Dyson told \"The New York Times Sunday Book Review\" that Joan Breton Connelly was one of the three writers he would invite to a literary dinner party, along with Kristen R. Ghodsee and Mary Doria Russell. When asked what book is currently on his nightstand, Dyson answered Connelly's \"Parthenon Enigma\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1102088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1102088", "title": "Kōgen", "text": "Kōgen\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45267171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45267171", "title": "La troupe du Roi de Danemark", "text": "La troupe du Roi de Danemark\n\nLa troupe du Roi de Danemark, or \"Roi de Danemark\" for short, was a French-speaking Danish court theatre, active at the Royal Danish court from 1682 until 1721. It was the only permanent theater in Denmark during its tenure. \n\nThe first French theater troupe had performed at the royal Danish court under Jean Guilmois de Rosidor (father of Claude Guilmois de Rosidor) in 1669-70, but that was but a temporary visit. The \"Roi de Danemark\" was engaged 23 March 1682. It was composed of French artists, who performed French language plays exclusively for the royal Danish court on temporary stages arranged at the various royal palaces. The composition of the troupe varied, but normally consisted of circa twelve people. It was the only permanent theatre company in Denmark during its tenure, when the only other theater activity in Copenhagen consisted of temporary visits from travelling foreign theater company's. \n\nIn 1721, the French court theater was dissolved by the monarch, who preferred German opera. Some of the members of the former court theater, who had lived in Denmark for most of their lives and in some cases even been born there, did not wish to leave Denmark, and therefore founded the first permanent public theater in Copenhagen, Lille Grønnegade Theatre, in January 1722. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1714038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1714038", "title": "Lieuwe van Aitzema", "text": "Lieuwe van Aitzema\n\nLieuwe (Leo) van Aitzema (19 November 1600 – 23 February 1669) was a Dutch historian, diplomat, bon viveur, philanderer and spy.\n\nHe was born at Dokkum, in Friesland. In 1617 he published a volume of Latin poems under the title of \"Poemata Juvenilia\", of which a copy is preserved in the British Museum. He made a special study of politics and political science and was for thirty years resident and minister for the Hanseatic towns at the Hague, where he died on 23 February 1669.\n\nHis most important work was the \"Saken van Staet in Oorlogh in ende omtrent de Vereenigte Nederlanden\" (14 vols. 4to, 1655–1671), embracing the period from 1621 to 1668. It contains a large number of state documents, and is an invaluable authority on one of the most eventful periods of Dutch history.\n\nFour continuations of the history, by the poet and historian Lambert van den Bos, were published successively at Amsterdam in 1685, 1688, 1698 and 1699. The \"Derde Vervolg Zinde het vierde Stuck van het vervolgh op de historie, &c., \", brings the history down to 1697.\n"}
{"id": "36379883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36379883", "title": "List of Grand Masters of the Order of Calatrava", "text": "List of Grand Masters of the Order of Calatrava\n\nThe following is an incomplete list of former Grand Masters of the Order of Calatrava, the current grand master of the order is King Felipe VI of Spain\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31979540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31979540", "title": "List of churches preserved by the Churches Conservation Trust in Southeast England", "text": "List of churches preserved by the Churches Conservation Trust in Southeast England\n\nThe Churches Conservation Trust, which was initially known as the Redundant Churches Fund, is a charity whose purpose is to protect historic churches at risk, those that have been made redundant by the Church of England. The Trust was established by the Pastoral Measure of 1968. The legally defined object of the Trust is \"the preservation, in the interests of the nation and the Church of England, of churches and parts of churches of historic and archaeological interest or architectural quality vested in the Fund ... together with their contents so vested\". The charity cares for over 350 churches. The Trust is financed partly by the Department for Culture, Media and Sport and the Church Commissioners, but grants from those bodies were frozen in 2001, since when additional funding has come from other sources, including the general public. In the 12 months ending 31 March 2010 the charity's income was £6,161,653, and its spending was £6,035,871. During that year it had 44 employees, and used the services of 2,000 volunteers. The charity is run by a board of trustees, who delegate the day-to-day management to a chief executive and his senior management team.\n\nThe Trust's primary aim is to ensure that the buildings in its care are weatherproof and to prevent any deterioration in their condition. The majority of the churches remain consecrated, and many are occasionally still used for worship. Local communities are encouraged to use them for appropriate activities and events, and the buildings provide an educational resource, allowing children and young people to study history and architecture. Nearly 2 million people visit the Trust's churches each year. As most of the churches remain consecrated, they are used for occasional services where this is practical, and some are venues for concerts and other purposes.\n\nThis list contains the 56 churches preserved by the Churches Conservation Trust in Southeast England, consisting of those in the counties of Oxfordshire, Buckinghamshire, Greater London, Berkshire, Hampshire, Surrey, Kent, West Sussex, and East Sussex. The churches range in age from the Anglo-Saxon All Saints Church, West Stourmouth, to the newest church in the list, Holy Trinity Church, Privett, which was built between 1876 and 1878. All the churches are designated by English Heritage as listed buildings, most of them in Grades I and II*.\n\nFor lists of churches preserved by the Churches Conservation Trust in other regions see:\n\nThe dates given for construction are often not exactly known. Where this is the case the century of first construction of the existing building is given.\n"}
{"id": "46364658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46364658", "title": "List of years in German television", "text": "List of years in German television\n\nThis is a list of years in German television.\n\n"}
{"id": "2764333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2764333", "title": "Lo Hsiang-lin", "text": "Lo Hsiang-lin\n\nLo Hsiang-lin (1906–1978) was one of the most renowned researchers in Hakka language and culture. His pioneering research in Hakka genealogy showed that the Hakka are Han Chinese. He was born in Xingning, Guangdong in 1906 and died in 1978. He attended Xingmin middle school, Tsinghua University, and Yenching University. From 1956–1968 he was a professor in Hong Kong University's Chinese department. In 1969, he became the first director of the Research Institute of Chinese Literature and History, Chu Hai College.\n\n"}
{"id": "1198231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1198231", "title": "Middle chronology", "text": "Middle chronology\n\nThe middle chronology is one chronology of the Near Eastern Bronze and Early Iron Age, which fixes the reign of Hammurabi to 1792–1750 BCE and the sack of Babylon to 1595 BCE.\n\nThe chronology is based on a 56/64-year astronomical calculation determined by evidence from the Venus tablet of Ammisaduqa and\nthe Enuma anu enlil tablet 63. Conventional textbooks tend to use the middle chronology, but early dendrochronological and astronomical evidence presented various problems for it. This led to increased adoption of the short chronologies by some. However, more recent studies have shown that the Middle Chronology is most likely.\n\nThe problem raised by using short chronologies is that a century or more needs to be added to some period of the second millennium BCE to accommodate it, but no one so far has been able to make a suggestion as to which period to add it to. That has left second millennium BCE dates appearing artificially short and has resulted in distortion and loss of accuracy for older dates, as a sacrifice to provide greater accuracy for earlier ones.\n\nVarious scholars have favoured different chronologies in recent years. Peter J. Huber has favoured the long chronology, relying on astronomical data available from Enuma anu enlil tablets 20 and 21 linking lunar eclipses to historical events in the Ur III period, along with the Venus tablet of Ammisaduqa, Old Babylonian month lengths.\n\nNumerous elements of Huber's theories have been criticized by a consortium of scholars led by Hermann Gasche and Vahe Gurzadyan, who have suggested an ultra-low chronology based on archaeological evidence and especially on more complete use of astronomical evidence. Gasche and Gurzadyan argue that only the eight-year cycle from the Venus tablet is entirely reliable and of practical use (see update in). The latest studies largely rely on more evidences. A study from 2001 published high-resolution radiocarbon dates from Turkey supporting dates for the 2nd millennium BC that are very close to those proposed by the middle chronology. Further support for the Middle Chronology (or a \"Low-Middle\" eight years lower) was provided by a 2016 study combining dendrochronology and radiocarbon.\n\nA table of historical events, by their different chronologies, is shown below.\n\n"}
{"id": "21015095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21015095", "title": "Mihailo Gavrilović", "text": "Mihailo Gavrilović\n\nMihailo Gavrilović (Serbian Cyrillic: Михаило Гавриловић), (Aleksinac, May 8, 1868 - London, November 1, 1924) was a prominent Serbian historian and diplomat.\n\nMihailo Gavrilović was born at Aleksinac in central Serbia on May 8, 1868 (Old Style). After graduating at Belgrade and Paris universities, he entered at first upon an academic career. From 1902 to 1911 he was Director of the Serbian State Archives, and during this time won a high reputation as a historian.\n\nGavrilović researched nineteenth-century Serbian history and wrote extensively on the main political figures of the time (i.e. Miloš Obrenović), Franco-Serbian relations during the Napoleonic era and the Serbian revolution (1804–1813) and Serbo-British relations in the 1840s and 1850s, as well as on international relations concerning the Serbian question. His three-volume biography of Prince Miloš Obrenović is still the best in Serbian historiography. It will always remain a standard work upon that period, and is specially valuable for its treatment of the diplomatic relations of Serbia with the European Powers. It carries the story of Prince Miloš down to 1835, and a fourth volume was to have dealt with the close of his first reign, his exile and his triumphant return in 1858. But unhappily the material which Gavrilović had amassed during the years of study and which would have enabled him to complete the work without much further effort, was irretrievably lost in a trunk which accompanied him during the painful retreat of the Serbian Army through Albania in the First World War (1915–1916), now remembered as the epic ”Albanian Golgotha“.\n\nGavrilović studied history at the \"Velika škola\", the institution that was later to become the University of Belgrade. He graduated in 1891, and defended his thesis on medieval history at the University of Paris-Sorbonne in 1899. During his years in Paris (1893–1900) Gavrilović prepared a huge volume of French documents concerning the First Serbian Uprising, under Karađorđe (1804–1813), that was published in the French language in a single volume in 1904 (\"Ispisi iz pariskih arhiva. Građa za istoriju srpskog ustanka\"), in Belgrade by the Serbian Royal Academy. After returning to Serbia from Paris, Gavrilović was appointed Director of the Archives of Serbia (1900–1903) and contributed greatly to its organization as a modern archival institution.\n\nUsing Austrian and Russian sources as well, Gavrilović, renowned for his methodical analysis and wider perspective on general historical developments, was considered the leading Serbian expert for diplomatic history. Gavrilović was elected a member of the Serbian Royal Academy in 1914.\n\nGavrilović was Serbian envoy to Cetinje (1910–1914), and was reassigned in 1914 as Serbian Envoy to the Holy See. During his stay in Rome, he searched the archives of the Vatican, collecting documents concerning Serbian history. In 1917, while the Serbian government-in-exile was located at Corfu, in Greece (1916–1918), Gavrilović was appointed Assistant Minister of Foreign Affairs, and, later on, served as acting Minister of Foreign Affairs (March 10 to November 3, 1918). After the Yugoslav unification in December 1918, Gavrilović was appointed as Envoy of Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes to London. As a diplomat Gavrilović was equally successful as in his scholarly pursuits, developing an important network of ties with officials in states where he represented the Kingdom of Serbia and its successor, The Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes (1919–1924).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57449388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57449388", "title": "Museum of the Mountain West", "text": "Museum of the Mountain West\n\nThe Museum of the Mountain West is a history museum off U.S. Route 50 in Montrose, Colorado. It includes a collection of historic log cabins, Western town stores, and other historic buildings which have been moved to the site.\n\nThe museum was listed on the Colorado state register of historic properties in 2018.\n\nThe museum also owns a historic carriage shop, not on the same site, where eventual champion boxer Jack Dempsey trained.\n\nIt is located at 68191 E. Miami Road, bordering on U.S. Route 50, east of the center of downtown Montrose.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3453148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3453148", "title": "Oskar Halecki", "text": "Oskar Halecki\n\nOskar Halecki (26 May 1891, Vienna – 17 September 1973, White Plains, New York) was a Polish historian, social and Catholic activist.\n\nHalecki, whose first name is sometimes spelled Oscar in English-language sources, was born in Vienna to a Polish officer serving in the Austrian army. His father, Oscar Chalecki-Halecki, achieved the rank of Lieutenant Field-marshal. His mother was Leopoldina deDellimanic.\n\nAfter graduating with a doctorate from the Jagiellonian University (1909–1913), he served briefly as a research assistant to Bronisław Dembiński in Warsaw, before continuing his education at the University of Vienna (1914–1915). He secured his first teaching position in 1915 as a docent at his alma mater, the Jagiellonian University. He was disqualified from military service due to poor eyesight. In his early years, Halecki wore Pince-nez, which combined with his mustache gave him an aristocratic appearance. Halecki moved to the Warsaw University in 1918 where he was appointed to a Chair of East European History.\n\nAfter the Armistice was signed, Halecki was appointed Secretary General of a committee of experts attached to the Polish Delegation at the Paris Peace Conference. Even though he had been appointed as Dean of the Faculty of Philosophy at the Jagiellonian (1920), Halecki spent a decade in international service. In 1921, he was appointed as a member of the League of Nations Secretariat in Geneva, where he spent three years organizing that body's Committee on Intellectual Co-operation. He then spent a year in Paris as Chief of the University Section in the League's Institute on Intellectual Co-operation, and then spent several years working on its various commissions. After a ten-year absence, Halecki returned to his professorship at the University of Warsaw until 1939, during which time he also served as Dean of the Faculty of Humanities (1930–1931). During 1938, he went to the United States as a visiting scholar of the Kosciuszko Foundation, giving over forty lectures at colleges and universities.\n\nHalecki was attending a conference in Fribourg when Germany invaded Poland, which triggered the Second World War. Rather than returning to occupied Poland, he went to Paris, where he organized the Polish University in Exile and served as its President, taught at the Sorbonne, and edited an émigré periodical called \"La Voix de Varsovie\". When Germany invaded France in 1940, Halecki escaped to the United States with the help of Stephen Mizwa and the Kosciuszko Foundation, where he spent two years as a Visiting Professor of History at Vassar College, before becoming Executive Director of the newly formed Polish Institute of Arts and Sciences in America, which was conceived as an American outpost of the Polska Akademia Umiejętności - Bronisław Malinowski was PIASA's first President, and Halecki was later President from 1952 to 1964.\n\nHalecki became a Professor of Eastern European History at Fordham University from 1944 to 1961, during which time he was also affiliated with the University of Montreal from 1944 to 1951, and also was an adjunct professor at Columbia University from 1955 to 1961, where he contributed to the prestige of Columbia's Institute on East Central Europe. After his \"retirement\" in 1961, he was a visiting professor at Loyola University in Rome (1962-1963), University of Fribourg (1963), University of California at Los Angeles (1963-1964), and Good Counsel College (1964-1967).\n\nAs a historian, Halecki was an expert on the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, which laid the foundation for his thesis that Eastern Europe (distinct from Russia) was no less European than Western Europe, that they were both part of one great European community of people that shared the same spiritual ideals and cultural traditions. His work led to the gradual acceptance of the concept and name of East Central Europe. His magnum opus was a two-volume history of the Jagiellonian Union, published in 1919-1920. Much of his retirement was occupied with working on a biography of Jadwiga of Anjou, which was published two decades after his death.\n\nHalecki also served on the controversial \"Committee of Ten\" in Scarsdale, New York, which claimed Communist influence in the public school curriculum during the 1950s.\n\nAmong the many students he mentored were Thaddeus V. Gromada, Taras Hunczak, and Eugene Kusielewicz.\n\nHalecki was married to Helen de Sulima-Szarlowska, who died in 1964.\n\nHalecki received honorary doctorates from the University of Lyon, the University of Montreal, De Paul University, Fordham University, and Saint Peter's College. He was Papal Chamberlain and Knight of the Grand Cross, Order of Malta; Commander of the Order of Polonia Restituta; Commander of Saint Gregory; Commander, Hungarian Croix de Merite; and Chevalier, Légion d'honneur. Halecki received the Polish American Historical Association's first Haiman Award (1966) for outstanding contributions to Polish American studies. In 1981, the Polish American Historical Association established the Halecki Prize, given to recognize an important book or monograph on the Polish experience in the United States.\n\nPublications by Halecki:\nPublications about Halecki:\n"}
{"id": "36747392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36747392", "title": "Pellegrina", "text": "Pellegrina\n\nThe pellegrina is a cape-like item of clerical dress worn by some Catholic ecclesiastics.\n\nSimilar to the mozzetta but open in front, the pellegrina is a short shoulder cape reaching to the elbow. It is made of black or white material trimmed and lined with amaranth red (for bishops) or scarlet red (for cardinals). The pope's pellegrina is entirely white. In some countries, priests wear a pellegrina of the same colour as their plain black cassock.\n\nThe general rule of the Roman Catholic Church is that the pellegrina may be worn with the cassock by cardinals and bishops.\n\nIn 1850, the year in which Pope Pius IX restored the Catholic hierarchy in England and Wales, he was understood to grant to all priests there the privilege of wearing a replica in black of his own white cassock with pellegrina. Since then, the wearing of the pellegrina with the cassock has been a sign of a Catholic priest in England and Wales, Scotland, Ireland, Australia, and New Zealand.\nIn his 1909 book, \"Costume of Prelates of the Catholic Church\", John Abel Felix Prosper Nainfa proposed the use of the English word \"simar\", instead of the word \"cassock\", for the garment with shoulder cape, which he treated as distinct from the cassock proper. Others too have made the same distinction between the \"simar\" (with pellegrina) and the \"cassock\" (without), but many scholars disagree with Nainfa's distinction. More particularly, the documents of the Holy See make no such distinction, using the term \"cassock\" or \"vestis talaris\" whether a pellegrina is attached or is not. Thus the 1969 Instruction states that, for cardinals and bishops, \"the elbow-length cape, trimmed in the same manner as this \"cassock\", may be worn over it\". \"Cassock\", rather than \"simar\" is the term that is usually applied to the dress of Popes and other Catholic ecclesiastics. The Instruction also gives no support to Nainfa's claim that the cassock with shoulder cape should not be worn in church services, which would be of difficult application, since the cassock with pellegrina is generally made as a single garment, with a non-detachable pellegrina.\n\nWhen Pope Benedict XVI resigned in 2013, he decided that he would continue to wear a white cassock but without pellegrina.\n\nThe pellegrina owes its name to its similarity to a more ample shoulder cape of cloth or leather that was traditionally worn by pilgrims (\"pellegrini\" in Italian).\n"}
{"id": "212364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=212364", "title": "Pierre Claude François Daunou", "text": "Pierre Claude François Daunou\n\nPierre Claude François Daunou (; 18 August 176120 June 1840) was a French statesman and historian of the French Revolution and Empire.\n\nHe was born at Boulogne-sur-Mer. After a career in the school of the Oratorians there, he joined the order in Paris in 1777. He was professor in various seminaries in 1780–1787, after which he was ordained. He was already known in literary circles by several essays and poems, when the Revolution opened a wider career. He entered the revolutionary milieu. A supporter of the Civil Constitution of the Clergy, he refused an offer of high office in the Catholic church that was intended to reverse his position.\n\nElected to the National Convention by the Pas-de-Calais \"département\", he associated himself with the Girondists, but strongly opposed the death sentence on King Louis XVI. Daunou took little part in the Girondist clash with The Mountain, but was involved in the events of his party's overthrow in the summer of 1793, and was imprisoned for almost a year.\n\nIn December 1794 he returned to the Convention, and was the principal author of the Constitution of the Year III that established the Directory at the end of the Thermidorian Reaction. It is probably because of his Girondinism that the Council of the Ancients was given the right of convoking the Council of Five Hundred outside Paris, an expedient which made possible Napoleon Bonaparte's \"coup d'état\" (the \"18 Brumaire\" in 1799).\n\nDaunou was also responsible for the creation of the Institut de France - he drew up the plan for its organization. His was instrumental in crushing the Royalist insurgency known as the \"13 Vendémiaire\", and the important place he occupied at the beginning of the period is indicated by the fact that he was elected by twenty-seven \"départements\" as member of the Council of Five Hundred, and became its first president. He had himself set the age qualification of the directors at forty, and thus debarred himself as candidate, as he was only thirty-four. The direction of affairs having passed into the hands of Talleyrand and his associates, Daunou turned once more to literature, but in 1798 he was sent to Rome to organize the Roman Republic.\n\nDaunou again lent his aid to Napoleon in the preparation of the Constitution of the Year VIII (the creation of the Consulate), under which Napoleon held the position of First Consul. He remained ambivalent towards Napoleon, but, in the latter's controversy with Pope Pius VII, Napoleon, (by then Emperor) was able again to secure from him the learned treatise \"Sur la puissance temporelle du Pape\" (\"On the Temporal Power of the Papacy\", 1809).\n\nNonetheless, he took little part in the new \"régime\", of which he was resentful, and turned more and more to literature. At the Restoration, he was deprived of the post of \"archivist of the Empire\", which he had held from 1807 to 1814. In 1819 he became the chair of history and ethics at the \"Collège de France\"; in that role, his courses were among the most famous of the period. With the advent of the July Monarchy in 1830, he regained his old post (now as \"archivist of the Kingdom\"). In 1839, Daunou was made a Peer.\n\nThe \"Encyclopædia Britannica Eleventh Edition\" writes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43162767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43162767", "title": "Pre-colonial history of Northern Nigeria", "text": "Pre-colonial history of Northern Nigeria\n\nThe pre-colonial history of Northern Nigeria encompasses the history of Northern Nigeria before the advent of European explorers and the subsequent pacification of Northern Nigeria by the British Empire. In pre-historical times, the area known as Northern Nigeria was home to the Kwatarkwashi/Nok culture. Elements of human civilisation have also been discovered around the Niger River near Kainji Dam.\n\nAround the 7th century the Kabara Nation under the control of the Kabara's emerged in Northern Nigeria. Around the 9th century an upheaval of unexplained origins saw a transference of power from these matriarchal monarchs and a new set of nations emerged in their place.\n\nIn the 9th century a set kingdoms emerged in Northern Nigeria to replace the Kabara Nation, these Kingdoms share a similar ethno-historical dynamic cemented in their belief in a common origin. The lore of the Fourteen Kingdoms unify the diverse heritage of Northern Nigeria into a cohesive system. Seven of these Kingdoms developed from the Kabara legacy of the Hausa people. In the 9th century as vibrant trading centers competing with Kanem-Bornu and Mali slowly developed in the Central Sudan, a set Kingdoms merged dominating the great savannah plains of Hausaland, their primary exports were leather, gold, cloth, salt, kola nuts, animal hides, and henna. The Seven Hausa states included:\n\n\nThe growth and conquest of the Hausa Bakwai resulted in the founding of additional states with rulers tracing their lineage to a concubine of the Hausa founding father, Bayajidda. Thus they are called the 'Banza Bakwai meaning Bastard Seven. The Banza Bakwai adopted many of the customs and institutions of the Hausa Bakwai but were considered unsanctioned or copy-cat kingdoms by non-Hausa people. These states include:\n\n\nThe Sudanic States emerged from the wake of the upheaval that transformed the system of governance in the central Sudan to patriarchal system. With influence of Islamic Mali Empire, the Hausa Kingdoms were replaced beginning with the Kingdom of Kano by a set of sultanates in the 11th century. The rise of the Sultanates led to series of wars that periodically saw the emergence of organised Empires in Northern Nigeria, by the 17th century, however, these empire had debilitated their economies and have largely stagnated. The parallel rise Fula influence resulted in a wave of ethnic Jihads that saw the rise of the Sokoto Caliphate encompassing much of Northern Nigeria and Northern Cameroon.\n\nThe Sokoto Caliphate emerged from a series of religious campaigns led by the Fula people. By 1809 it had encompassed much of Northern Nigeria and Northern Cameroon.\n"}
{"id": "30533591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30533591", "title": "Presidential Inaugural Medals", "text": "Presidential Inaugural Medals\n\nPresidential Inaugural Medals have a long history in the United States. The tradition can be traced back to the first president, George Washington, and continues on today with President Donald Trump.\n\nSamuel Brooks created the first presidential medal for President George Washington—the medal produce had a crude profile of Washington on one side and is known as the \"Manly medal\". When elected for his second term in office, \"success tokens\" were distributed as mementos following Washington's inauguration, but the medals were not produced for the actual festivities. Thomas Jefferson received the first unofficial presidential inaugural medal produced by John Reich in 1802. The silver medal was sold for $4.25 and the tin medal for $1.25. For years, independent medal makers would produce presidential medals to commemorate a specific president's inauguration. In addition, unofficial presidential buttons, ribbons, and badges were produced. All of these became increasingly popular once elaborate inaugural festivities were thrown in Washington, D.C because the various items became favored souvenirs for the attendees. Since there was no standard medal, historians have uncovered medals in various sizes and qualities, as well as composed of different metals.\n\nWhen the government decided it could no longer afford the inaugural celebrations at the turn of the twentieth century, D.C. residents took it upon themselves to raise all the funding for inaugural festivities. One way to raise funds was through the sale of official presidential inaugural medals. Instead of various presidential medals being produced for tourist consumption, an official inaugural medal would be produced by the official Inauguration Committee and sold to the public. In 1901, William McKinley received the first official presidential inaugural medal—it had his portrait stamped on one side and the Capitol building on the other. Surrounding the Capitol building are the words, \"William McKinley President of the United States * Theodore Roosevelt Vice-President\". Instead of being produced by the United States Mint, the medals were produced by the Joseph K. Davison Company of Philadelphia. Scholars believe that 3 gold, 55 silver, and approximately 4,000 bronze medals were produced. The three gold medals were created for the President, Vice President, and President of the Official Inauguration Committee for Medals and Badges. Silver medals were to be distributed among committee members and bronze medals were available for public sale. This set a tradition that is still observed today. \n\nWhen Theodore Roosevelt came into office in 1905, he decided that the previous medal produced for McKinley would be insufficient for him. Roosevelt, an avid art supporter, wanted his medal to go above and beyond a simple portrait. This led to two different medals being produced for his inauguration—a simpler medal approved by the Committee on Medals and Badges and a medal commissioned by Roosevelt himself. When choosing someone to design his personal inaugural medal, Roosevelt turned to renowned sculptor, Augustus Saint-Gaudens. Saint-Gaudens was at the height of his career and was in negotiations with the U.S. Treasury to make new designs for American coins. It was during his visit to the White House that President Roosevelt also asked him to design a superior inauguration medal for his election. Saint-Gaudens agreed to the President's proposal and immediately began to sketch possibilities. The medal produced from Saint-Gaudens certainly held a superior art aesthetic in comparison to the original medal produced by the Inaugural Committee. One side of the medal displays a distinguished portrait of Roosevelt and the other side holds a high-relief eagle. This is the same eagle that is later used for the $10 coins produced by the U.S. Treasury.\n\nRoosevelt's artistic design continues to influence presidential inaugural medals today. Following Roosevelt's presidency, the Chairmen for the Committee on Medals and Badges purposefully chose artist and other pro-art members in order to produce superior results. The precedence Roosevelt set continued to be followed and efforts were made to contract an artist, whether it be a sculptor or engraver, to design future medals. However, time constraints and the limitations set forth by the contracted firm to produce the medals always affects the final results. Consequently, various degrees of artistic medals have been produced, from the less ornate Woodrow Wilson medals with his portrait on one side and his name and Vice President's Riley Marshall's name on the other side, to the more elaborate John F. Kennedy medal that has his portrait on one side and a high relief Presidential Seal on the other. \n\nWhen producing a new inaugural medal, the sculptor has the President-elect sit for the creation of a clay sketch. The sketch is then turned into a mask to which additional facial features can be added. The mask is then transformed into a plaster model, then an epoxy cast. The cast is used to create the die cuts that will be used for striking the medals. After the medals have been created, they are immersed in chemicals that darken the piece to create a two-toned effect. Lastly, the medals are lacquered to preserve the piece.\n\nIt was not until Richard Dusterberg published \"The Official Inaugural Medals of the Presidents of the United States\" in 1971 that collecting Presidential Medals began to become popular. The original catalog included pictures of all the medals up to 1969, as well as a price guide. As a result, the increase in collecting led to an increase in prices. Collecting presidential medals has grown in popularity due to the appeal of the subject matter, availability of the pieces, and the fact that it is a defined collection. If a collector chooses to collect the bronze medals, this can be completed fairly easily for a decent price. \n\nThe value of the presidential inaugural medals has fluctuated over the years and is highly influenced by auctions and the current U.S. economy. For example, in 1980 there was the Great Gold and Silver Panic when silver was worth $50 per ounce and gold worth $800 per ounce. This led to thousands of medals being melted down for their silver and gold weight values. The medals produced for Richard Nixon, Gerald Ford, and Jimmy Carter fell victim to this panic, which has since then created a shortage available for collectors and therefore a higher price tag for those presidents. \n\nCurrently, the Smithsonian Institution and the Special Collections Research Center at The George Washington University hold the most complete collections of presidential inauguration medals. The Smithsonian collection is composed of medals donated by different individuals over the years. In December 1977, the National Portrait Gallery premiered the Smithsonian's medal collection with the exhibition, \"The President's Medal\". The Special Collections Research Center's collection was donated by Darrell C. Crain in May 1976. Crain's father had designed the presidential medals for President Woodrow Wilson (1917), President Warren G. Harding (1921), and President Calvin Coolidge (1925). In addition, Crain served on the Official Inaugural Medal Committee for five presidents.\n\n"}
{"id": "20922630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20922630", "title": "Primo Feliciano Velázquez", "text": "Primo Feliciano Velázquez\n\nPrimo Feliciano Velázquez Rodríguez (6 June 1860 – 19 June 1953) was a Mexican journalist, attorney and historian who specialized in regional history. He was a translator of Nahuatl and Latin and a connoisseur of local literature. In 1946-1948, he published the definitive \"Historia de San Luis Potosí\" (\"History of San Luis Potosi\") in four volumes.\n\nVelázquez was born in Santa Maria del Rio, San Luis Potosi to Octaviano Velázquez and María de la Concepción Rodríguez. He was twelve years old when he was enrolled at the Seminary of San Luis Potosi (Seminario Conciliar Guadalupano Josefino), and he graduated in 1878, took an advanced degree in 1879, and passed his law examination there in October 1880. Subsequently, he assumed the Latin chair and the Civil Law chair there.\n\nIn 1883, he published \"La Voz de San Luis\" (\"The Voice of San Luis\"), a series of broadsides to celebrate the centennial of the birth of Agustín de Iturbide. The next year, he joined with Ambrosio Ramirez and Juan N. Ruelas to found the newspaper \"El Estandarte\" (\"The Standard\") in San Luis Potosi which proceeded to publish articles critical of the government, as well as literary and historical articles, written mostly by Velázquez. Velázquez espoused Christian social doctrine in his editorials, and encouraged others to submit articles on local history and folklore. \"El Estandarte\" was very successful going from biweekly to daily in 1890 and continuing to be published until the end of 1911.\n\nVelázquez made his home a gathering point for those interested in the history of San Luis Potosi, and impromptu seminars were regular occurrences. He was a pioneer in archaeological research in San Luis Potosi, not only excavating himself, but encouraging the work of others.\n\nVelázquez belonged to a number of organizations, local, national, and international, among them were: Academia Mexicana de la Historia, Real Academia de la Lengua, and Sociedad Mexicana de Geografía y Estadística.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18627940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18627940", "title": "Randall G. Holcombe", "text": "Randall G. Holcombe\n\nRandall Gregory Holcombe (born June 4, 1950) is an American economist, and the DeVoe Moore Professor of Economics at Florida State University. He is a Research Fellow at The Independent Institute, a Senior Fellow and member of the Research Advisory Council at The James Madison Institute, and past president of the Public Choice Society. From 2000 to 2006 he served on Governor Jeb Bush's Council of Economic Advisors.\n\nHolcombe is the author of several books on economics and American politics. In libertarian theoretical discourse, he has argued that private defense agencies could form cartels and oppress people, more or less as governments, with little fear of competition.\n\nHolcombe is a musician and licensed pilot.\n"}
{"id": "548304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=548304", "title": "Sargis Kakabadze", "text": "Sargis Kakabadze\n\nSargis N. Kakabadze (October 7, 1886 – April 2, 1967) was a Georgian historian and philologist, Doctor of Historical Sciences, Professor.\n\nHe was born in 1886, in a small village Kukhi (Imereti region of Western Georgia). In 1910 he graduated from the Faculty of Oriental Languages of the St.Petersburg University (Russia). In 1911-1918 he was a teacher of History of the Georgian Gymnasium of Tbilisi, in 1919-1967 Professor of the Tbilisi State University (TSU), in 1921-1926 Director of the State Historical Archive of Georgia, in 1945-1961 head of the Department of the Old Acts of this Archive.\n\nMain fields of scientific activity of Sargis Kakabadze were: history of Georgia, source studies of the history of Georgia and the Caucasus, history of Georgian literature, Rustvelology (Shota Rustaveli was a great Georgian poet of the 12th century), etc. He was author of more than 100 scientific-research articles and many important monographs.\n\nSargis Kakabadze died in 1967, in Tbilisi.\n\n"}
{"id": "59133001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59133001", "title": "Shelley Haley", "text": "Shelley Haley\n\nShelley Haley is the Edward North Chair of Classics, and Professor of Africana Studies at Hamilton College, New York.\n\nHaley completed her PhD at the University of Michigan in 1977, with a thesis titled ‘The Role of Amicitia in the Life of Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus’.\n\nShe was appointed to the faculty at Hamilton College in 1989, and has also held appointments at Washington University-St Louis (‘Distinguished Visiting Scholar’, 2002); and Hobart and William Smith Colleges (‘Melvin Hill Visiting Scholar-in-Residence’, 2013).\n\nHaley participated in the Oxford Round Table in 2003; and has served a four-year term as chief reader for the AP Latin Exam, and has chaired the AP Latin Exam Development Committee.\n\nHaley was a founding member of The Kirkland Project for the Study of Gender, Culture, and Society; the Institute for Global African Studies (IGAS); and the Multiculturalism, Race, and Ethnicity in Classics Consortium (MRECC).\n\nHaley has been awarded several distinctions for her excellence in teaching and research. These include:\n\n\nHaley was interviewed in 1999 for The Learning Channel series \"Rome: Power and Glory\". \n\nShe was also interviewed by BBC World Radio in April 2000, regarding the reopening of the Library of Alexandria; and for the BBC series \"Timewatch\" (episode - 'In Search of Cleopatra') in December 1997 and January 1998.\n\nHaley has published and presented widely on Cleopatra, Black Feminist Pedagogy, and the impact of a classical education on African-American women. Recent examples of her work include:\n\n"}
{"id": "53604595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53604595", "title": "Stolpersteine in Prague-Michle", "text": "Stolpersteine in Prague-Michle\n\nThe Stolpersteine in Prague-Michle lists the Stolpersteine in cadastral area Michle of Prague. Since 2002, the district belongs to Praha 4. Stolpersteine is the German name for stumbling blocks collocated all over Europe by German artist Gunter Demnig. They remember the fate of the Nazi victims being murdered, deported, exiled or driven to suicide.\n\nGenerally, the stumbling blocks are posed in front of the building where the victims had their last self chosen residence. The name of the Stolpersteine in Czech is: \"Kameny zmizelých\", stones of the disappeareds.\n\nAccording to the website of Gunter Demnig the Stolpersteine of Prague were posed on 8 October 2008, 7 November 2009, 12 June 2010, 13 to 15 July 2011 and on 17 July 2013 by the artist himself. A further collocation occurred on 28 October 2012, but is not mentioned on Demnig's page.\n\nThe Czech Stolperstein project was initiated in 2008 by the \"Česká unie židovské mládeže\" (Czech Union of Jewish Youth) and was realized with the patronage of the Mayor of Prague.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33914220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33914220", "title": "Tana ware", "text": "Tana ware\n\nTana ware refers to a type of prehistoric pottery prominent around the Lake Tana near northwest Ethiopia, and Kaya settlements of the coastal hinterland of Kenya. \n\nThe name Tana ware was given because the early discoveries of these types of pottery were along the Tana River in present day Kenya. \n\nThe book \"Societies, Religion, and History: Central East Tanzanians and the World They Created, c. 200 BCE to 1800 CE\" asks: \"Did a new ethno-linguistic community introduce Tana ware to the region, or did extant EIA Kwale ware makers innovate a new style through a series of transitions that resulted in Tana ware?\" The book also comments that \"Taking into consideration the marked typological distinctions in Tana ware motifs, even when shared aesthetic influences may be noted, it is more probable that recently arrived NECB speakers manufactured the Tana ware.\". \n\nIn the 5th and 6th centuries, Tana ware began to replace Kwale ware in the Usambara region.\n"}
{"id": "30059361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30059361", "title": "Terje Bratberg", "text": "Terje Bratberg\n\nTerje Torberg Vevik Bratberg (born 17 January 1955) is a Norwegian historian and encyclopedist. He got his cand.philol. degree with his thesis on Jens Bjelke in 1990. Bratberg is the editor of the Norwegian language-encyclopedia on the city Trondheim, named \"Trondheim byleksikon\".\n"}
{"id": "190878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=190878", "title": "Timeline of nuclear fusion", "text": "Timeline of nuclear fusion\n\nThis timeline of nuclear fusion is an incomplete chronological summary of significant events in the study and use of nuclear fusion.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14905424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14905424", "title": "Trudpert Neugart", "text": "Trudpert Neugart\n\nTrudpert Neugart (born Villingen, Baden, 23 February 1742; died at St Paul's Benedictine abbey near Klagenfurt, Carinthia, Austria, 15 December 1825) was a Benedictine historian. Of middle-class origin, Neugart studied in the classical schools of the Benedictine Abbeys of St George and St. Blasien, entered the order at the latter monastery in l759, and was ordained priest 1765; in 1767 he was appointed professor of Biblical languages at the University of Freiburg. In 1770, however, he returned to St. Blasien where he professed theology. \n\nWhile engaged in this work he published a treatise on penance, \"Doctrina de sacramento poenitentiae recte administrando\" (St Blasien, 1778). His abbot, Gerbert had planned the publication of a Church history of Germany on a large scale (Germania sacra). In 1780 at his request Neugart began an elaborate research into the history of the Diocese of Constance. On Gerbert's death in 1793, Neugart declined the title of abbot but accepted the provostship of Bad Krozingen, near Freiburg, so as to be able to devote himself entirely to historical studies. He published the original charters and documents for the history of the Diocese of Constance in a separate publication, \"Codex diplomaticus Alemanniae et Burgundiae transjuranae intra fines dioecesis Constantiensis\" (I, St. Blasien, 1791; II, St. Blansien, 1795). With this as a basis he wrote in Krozingen the first instalment of his history of the Diocese of Constance \"Episcopatus Constantiensis Alemannicus sub metropoli Moguntina\" (part I, vol. I, to the year 1100, St. Blasien 1803). \n\nSoon the abbey of St. Blasien was secularized. Notwithstanding Neugart's efforts for its preservation it was assigned to Baden, and absorbed with all its landed possessions. In 1807 Neugart went to Vienna to negotiate for the settlement of the expelled monks in Austria, and succeeded. The abbot and monks of St. Blasien were granted the Abbey of St. Paul, near Klagenfurt in the valley of the Lavant, suppressed by Joseph II. Here Neugart completed the second volume of his diocesan history extending to 1308, but it was not published until 1802. He then turned his attention to the history of Carinthia and of the Abbey of St. Paul, where he and his companions had found refuge. After his death there appeared his \"Historia monasterii Ord. S. Benedicti ad S. Paulum in valle inferioris Carinthiae Lavantina\" (Klagenfurt, 1848,1854). Several historical treatises and compilations are still in manuscript. Another work, \"Libellus majores maternos Rudolphi I regis exhibens\", was edited by Weber (Klagenfurt, 1850).\n\n"}
{"id": "24911517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24911517", "title": "Urmson &amp; Thompson", "text": "Urmson &amp; Thompson\n\nUrmson & Thompson was a company that manufactured stationary steam engines. It was based in Oldham, Lancashire, England. The company were general millwrights, also producing some steam engines during the 19th century and after 1904 produced large steam-driven engines for textile mills in Oldham.\n\nJohn Urmson and John E Thompson started business in 1865 in Hathershaw, Oldham. While Urmson was a trained engineer who had worked at Woolstenhulmes & Rye, Thompson is thought to have contributed capital. Thompson died in 1882, and Urmson with his sons John and Andrew continued the business. On the sons' death in 1888 the firm was incorporated, and continued until 1933.\n\nThe firm operated out of the Hathershaw Foundry. Initially millwrights, in the 1870s they started making stationary steam engines as well. From 1904 they made a series of large mill engines. The largest was a 2000ihp engine for Ace Mill Co. Ltd., Chadderton in 1914. This was erected in 1919.\n\nThe later engines were large. Arthur Roberts reported that Hartford Mill was powered by an 1800 hp twin-tandem compound engine by Urmson and Thompson, built in 1907. It was steamed at 160 psi at 68 rpm. It had a 5 ft stroke driving a 24 ft flywheel. The transmission method was a rope drive using 40 ropes. The engine was reputed to be the only twin-tandem that Urmson & Thompson built. It had two 30\" diameter HP (high-pressure) cylinders at the rear, and two 60\" LP (low-pressure) cylinders in front. There were Corliss valves on all cylinders. The air pumps were driven from each crosshead. There was a Whitehead governor. The engine cost £5400 and the three boilers cost £1900.\n\nUrmson & Thompson produced mill engines in the boom years of the 1870s, and millwrighted (i.e. produced the bevelled gear shafts) for mills such as Nile Mill, Chadderton. The period 1904–1914 was productive, when they created engines rating a total of 14,300 ihp for nine Oldham mills:\n"}
{"id": "27221372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27221372", "title": "Victor A. Savchenko", "text": "Victor A. Savchenko\n\nVictor A. Savchenko (), born December 13, 1961 in Odessa in the then Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, is a writer and historian.\n\nIn 1985 he graduated from the Faculty of History, University of Odessa. In 1990 he defended his thesis on the history of the anarchist movement in Ukraine in 1917-1921. One of his first articles \"Treason, Makhno and the iron broom L. Trotsky\" (History of the USSR. - Moscow, 1990. - 2. - S. 75-90) marked the beginning of rehabilitation N. Makhno in historical scholarship and public consciousness.\n\nSince 1985, Savchenko has taught history and sociology at universities in Odessa. In 1995-1996 he worked at the Ukrainian Institute. Shevchenko (Paris) Associate Professor of the Odessa University of Internal Affairs and professor of sociology (2002).\n\nHe became the head of the Odessa organization All-Ukrainian Party \"Cathedral\" (2000-2001), the All-Ukrainian Party of Peace and Unity (since 2002, deputy chairman of the party since 2006). He was nominated to the Supreme Rada (1995) and worked in political PR.\n\nAs a public figure, Savchenko leads the \"Association of European culture\" (2000) and scientific Local History Society \"Odessika\" (since 2009). Since 1990, Savchenko has been working in the field of journalism.\n\nHe authored 320 articles that were published in the Weekly \"Peak Politics and Culture\" (Kiev), \"Passage\" Alliance (Odessa) and others in the newspaper \"Russian idea\" (Paris), 'Ukrains'ke word\" (Paris), Bulletin of the region, \"South, Word\", \"Chernomorsk News\", \"Porto-Franco\" (Odessa) and others is the co-author of the modern coat of arms of Odessa (1999).\n\nHe edits the literary anthology \"Southwestern ART\" and is the chief editor of a history and local lore scientific almanac\" In 2000, Savchenko began his writing career as a publicist.\n\nHe is a member of the Writer's Union of Ukraine.\n\nSavchenko authored or co-authored 19 books:\n\n"}
{"id": "38827532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38827532", "title": "Vito Alessio Robles", "text": "Vito Alessio Robles\n\nGeneral Vito Alessio Robles (August 14, 1879June 11, 1957) was a Mexican military officer, engineer, writer, journalist, diplomat, and academic who participated in the Mexican Revolution. He was one of the country's leading historians, as well as a politician, serving as a senator and opposition party leader. His work on the history of Coahuila y Tejas, in three volumes, is notable. He was temperamentally a public prosecutor and as a critic he spoke and wrote with total frankness. He is credited as the first generation of romantic revolutionaries of Mexico who dreamed and put to action the civic movement which would ensure better opportunities open to the people of Mexico.\n\nHe was born in 1879 in Saltillo, Coahuila, (baptized 30 August 1879 - San Esteban protomártir), the eldest of the seven sons of Dominic Alessio Bello, a merchant from Salerno, Italy, and Crisanta Robles Rivas. His siblings, José Alessio Robles and Miguel Alessio Robles, were also military generals; his other siblings included Domingo Alessio Robles (1884-), María Catarina Alessio Robles (1886-), Ricardo Alessio Robles (1889), and María Alessio Robles (1890). He studied at the Ateneo Fuente. In 1896, he entered the Heroic Military Academy where he pursued a career in engineering, graduating in December 1903 as a lieutenant in the Corps of Engineers and served the same institution as a professor, and served the army with total loyalty. His campaign as an army officer covered México city, Jalapa, Monterrey and Sonora. He met his future wife, Espinosa Como Cuevas Trinidad at the Río Yaqui, Sonora. In the fight against Madero in Chihuahua, he was injured at Malpaso. He married Cuevas Espinosa in 1906, and they had four children, of whom Angela Alessio Robles and Cuevas are known.\n\nAfter his scholastic career, he was assigned the task of building Monterrey Square, barracks and Pótam Toros in the Yaqui region. He was also responsible for building the national dockyard at the Guaymas Port in Sonora. He was then given the war duty to fight the Yaqui Indians from 1905 to 1908. On his return from the military operations, in 1908, he was assigned the task of building the headquarters of La Piedad in the capital. In 1908 itself, he was made the Professor of Communications at the Military School. His campaign as an army officer covered México city, Jalapa, Monterrey and Sonora. He met his future wife, Espinosa Como Cuevas Trinidad at the río Yaqui, Sonora. In the fight against Madero in Chihuahua, he was injured at Malpaso.\n\nAfter his return to the capital he held several public offices and was chief of staff of Gen. Manuel Gordillo. He was assigned as Military Attache, from October 1912 to February 1913, at the Legation of Mexico in Rome. He took voluntary discharge from the army and then joined the revolutionary movement of Francisco I, as he did not agree with the regime of Victoriano Huerta. Alessio Robles was Governor of the Mexican Federal District for one year from 1 January 1915.\n\nAfter 1920, he led a deputation by the Federal District V District and was a senator of Coahuila in 1922. As senator he was an exemplary parliamentarian in the same category as Belisario Dominguez. As a journalist and parliamentarian, he was aggressive. During this time, he was assigned as Minister Plenipotentiary to Sweden. After returning from Sweden, he was made the Technical Advisor to the Ministry of Agriculture and Development. On August 9, 1921, his brother, General Joseph Alessio Robles, was killed in Mexico City. Gen. Jacinto B. Trevino was accused the perpetrator of the crime; due to insufficient evidence he was released. This caused a permanent rift with his brother Miguel as Vito was accused for not bringing the culprit to justice.\n\nDuring his political career between 1927 and 1928, he contested for the post of Governor of Coahuila but lost the election. He was then sent to the United States where he worked in Austin, Texas. Here, he undertook the study of historical documents at the University of Texas at Austin. This assignment enabled him to gather enough material which helped him to launch his literary interests of writing books on history. When he returned to Mexico, he was made the professor of the National Preparatory School and the Faculty of Arts of the City of Mexico. He was also responsible during this period to found the Seminary of Mexican Culture; in the role of a founding member he traveled to many provinces on cultural missions. He was elected member of the Academia Mexicana de la Historia, in 1937. From 1947 to 1950, he was Professor of History of the Provincias Internas of New Spain in the Faculty of Philosophy and Letters. He died in Mexico City on 11 June 1957 at Ciudad de México, District Federal, México at the age of 78 years. His daughter Angela inherited his vast library.\n\nHis journalist career started in 1927 in El Universal, the Democratic City newspaper. He published his first book \"Bibliography of Coahuila\" covering both history and Geography; this collection was edited by Genaro Estrada. As writer of history his other books included many other publications. His three volume work on the \"History of Coahuila y Texas\" is a monumental work which gives a comprehensive history of Texas. The \"eponymous\" historian Alessio Robles's book collection is an important collection of 14,000 volumes (17th to 19th century) in the museum named \"Centro Cultural Vito Alessio Robles\" in Saltillo. Some of his other notable books are Saltillo, en la Historia y en la Leyenda, Coahuila y Texas, desde la consumación de la independencia hasta el tratado de paz de Guadalupe Hidalgo, and Coahuila y Texas en la época colonial.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13350178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13350178", "title": "William Gardner (English coin designer)", "text": "William Gardner (English coin designer)\n\nWilliam Maving Gardner (25 May 1914 in Newcastle – 28 December 2000) was an English coin designer, engraver, calligrapher and writer who worked regularly for the Royal Mint over a 30-year period. He is notable for designing coins such as the British 20 Pence Coin and some of the coins of Cyprus, New Zealand, Jordan, Guyana, Dominican Republic, Sri Lanka and the Falkland Islands.\n\nAfter having studied calligraphy and letter design at the Hampstead Garden Suburb Institute in his teens, Gardner enrolled at The Royal College of Art, simultaneously studying (in his second and third years), at the Central School of Arts and Crafts under George Friend, J. H. Mason, Barry Hart and Martin Travers. In 1939 his studies were finally rewarded with a diploma and The Travelling Scholarship from the Royal College of Art.\n\nGardner was most well known for his designs for the reverses of the 1953 three penny piece, English and Scottish shillings and the decimal 20p reverse of 1982 still in use today. The artist engraved the coins himself.\n\nHe also designed the British Privy Council Seal, the HM Greater and Lesser Signets as well as the seals of the British Medical Association and the Royal Society of Arts.\n\nWith the outbreak of World War II, Gardner was soon posted to the Army Camouflage Development and Training Centre at Farnham, where he became involved in the training of 7,000 men of all ranks. Before D-Day he was regularly in the air to advise on camouflaging the build-up of forces. In November 1944 together with a colleague, he set up and ran a new camouflage training school at Scottish Command, Edinburgh.\n\nFor the next few years after demobilisation, he spent much of his time as a visiting lecturer in lettering, heraldic design and penmanship at Cambridgeshire College of Arts and Technology, The Central School of Arts and Crafts, London, and Hampstead Garden Suburb Institute (the latter until 1973).\n\nDuring this period Rolls of Honour commissioned by King George VI for the Household Cavalry were inscribed. A considerable variety of commissions in coin design, heraldry and lettering were completed and in 1955 he became a fellow of the RSA, subsequently serving on the jury of its Industrial Design Bursary scheme.\n\nHe also reviewed books over a long period for the RSA Journal. He was an examiner for The City and Guilds of London Institute in craft subjects and the definitive Jersey stamp was designed in 1958 and the Tercentenary stained glass window for the Royal Society in 1960.\n\nIn 1963 Gardner was visiting professor and fine art program lecturer at Colorado State University and in the years immediately following he travelled widely to research art and crafts of the United States, Polynesia, New Zealand, Australia and Nepal.\n\nA calligraphic volume for Eton College was completed in 1990.\n\nWilliam Gardner was a Fellow of the Society of Scribes and Illuminators and a Fellow of the Society of Numismatic Artists and Designers.\n\n"}
{"id": "38835481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38835481", "title": "Wordless novel", "text": "Wordless novel\n\nThe wordless novel is a narrative genre that uses sequences of captionless pictures to tell a story. As artists have often made such books using woodcut and other relief printing techniques, the terms woodcut novel or novel in woodcuts are also used. The genre flourished primarily in the 1920s and 1930s and was most popular in Germany.\n\nThe wordless novel has its origin in the German Expressionist movement of the early 20th century. The typically socialist work drew inspiration from medieval woodcuts and used the awkward look of that medium to express angst and frustration at social injustice. The first such book was the Belgian Frans Masereel's \"25 Images of a Man's Passion\", published in 1918. The German Otto Nückel and other artists followed Masereel's example. Lynd Ward brought the genre to the United States in 1929 when he produced , which inspired other American wordless novels and a parody in 1930 by cartoonist Milt Gross with \"He Done Her Wrong\". Following an early-1930s peak in production and popularity, the genre waned in the face of competition from sound films and anti-socialist censorship in Nazi Germany and the US.\n\nFollowing World War II, new examples of wordless novels became increasingly rare, and early works went out of print. Interest began to revive in the 1960s when the American comics fandom subculture came to see wordless novels as prototypical book-length comics. In the 1970s, the example of the wordless novel inspired cartoonists such as Will Eisner and Art Spiegelman to create book-length non-genre comics—\"graphic novels\". Cartoonists such as Eric Drooker and Peter Kuper took direct inspiration from wordless novels to create wordless graphic novels.\n\nWordless novels use sequences of expressive images to tell a story. Socialist themes of struggle against capitalism are common; scholar Perry Willett calls these themes \"a unifying element of the genre's aesthetic\". In both formal and moral aspects, they draw from Expressionist graphics, theatre, and film. Wordless novelists such as Frans Masereel appropriated the awkward aesthetic of mediaeval woodcuts to express their anguish and revolutionary political ideas and used simple, traditional iconography. Text is restricted to title and chapter pages, except where text is a part of the scene, such as in signs.\n\nThe storytelling tends to be melodramatic, and the stories tend to focus on struggles against social oppression in which characters are silenced by economic, political, and other social forces. The characters are clearly delineated as good or evil—the good drawn sympathetically and the evil with the contempt of the artist's moral indignation.\n\nMost wordless novelists were not prolific; few besides Masereel and Lynd Ward produced more than a single book. The books were designed to be mass-produced for a popular audience, in contrast to similar but shorter portfolios by artists such as Otto Dix, George Grosz, and Käthe Kollwitz, which were produced in limited editions for collectors. These portfolios of typically from eight to ten prints also were meant to be viewed in sequence. Wordless novels were longer, had more complex narratives, and were printed in sizes and dimensions comparable to those of novels. A large influence was the most popular silent visual medium of the time: silent films. Panning, zooming, slapstick, and other filmic techniques are found in the books; Ward said that in creating a wordless novel, he first had to visualize it in his head as a silent film.\n\nTypically, wordless novels used relief printing techniques such as woodcuts, wood engraving, metalcuts, or linocuts. One of the oldest printing techniques, relief printing has its origins in 8th-century China and was introduced to Europe in the 15th century. It requires an artist to draw or transfer an image to a printing block; the areas not to be printed (the white areas) are cut away, leaving raised areas to which ink is applied to make prints. The monochrome prints were usually in black ink, and occasionally in a different colour such as sienna or orange. Relief printing is an inexpensive but labour-intensive printing technique; it was accessible to socially conscious artists who wanted to tell wordless stories of the working classes.\n\nIn 15th-century mediaeval Europe, woodcut block books were printed as religious guides; particularly popular was the . The early 16th century saw block books disappear in favour of books printed with the movable type of Gutenberg's presses. Woodcut printing persisted into the 16th century under artists such as Dürer, Holbein, and Amman, after which engraving techniques superseded woodcuts. Pioneered by Thomas Bewick, wood engraving enjoyed popularity beginning in the 18th century, until the method gave way by the 19th century to more advanced printing methods such as lithography.\n\nPost-impressionist artist Paul Gauguin revived woodcut printing in the late-19th century, favouring it for its primitivist effect. Early in the 20th century, woodcut artists such as Käthe Kollwitz (1867–1945) and Max Klinger (1857–1920) published portfolios of woodcuts, thematically linked by themes of social injustice. Expressionist graphic artists such as Max Beckmann (1884–1950), Otto Dix (1891–1969), Kollwitz, and Karl Schmidt-Rottluff (1884–1976) were inspired by an early-20th-century revival of interest in mediaeval graphic arts—in particular Biblical woodcut prints such as the . These artists used the awkward look of woodcut images to express feelings of anguish.\n\nThe wordless novel grew out of the Expressionist movement. The Belgian Frans Masereel (1889–1972) created the earliest example, \"25 Images of a Man's Passion\", in 1918. It was a commercial success and was followed by \"Passionate Journey\", which at 167 images was Masereel's longest book. It was also the most commercially successful, particularly in Germany, where copies of his books sold in the hundreds of thousands throughout the 1920s and had introductions by writers such as Max Brod, Hermann Hesse, and Thomas Mann. Masereel's books drew strongly on Expressionist theatre and film in their exaggerated but representational artwork with strong contrasts of black and white.\n\nMasereel's commercial success led other artists to try their hands at the genre; themes of oppression under capitalism were prominent, a pattern set early by Masereel. At age thirteen, Polish-French artist Balthus drew a wordless story about his cat; it was published in 1921 with an introduction by poet Rainer Maria Rilke. In \"Destiny\" (1926), Otto Nückel (1888–1955) produced a work with greater nuance and atmosphere than Masereel's bombastic works; where Masereel told tales of Man's struggle against Society, Nückel told of the life of an individual woman. \"Destiny\" appeared in a US edition in 1930 and sold well there.\n\nClément Moreau (1903–1988) first tried his hand at the genre with the six-plate \"Youth Without Means\" in 1928. István Szegedi-Szüts (1892–1959), a Hungarian immigrant to England, made a wordless book in brush and ink called \"My War\" (1931). In simple artwork reminiscent of Japanese brush painting, Szegedi-Szüts told of a Hungarian cavalryman disillusioned by his World War I experiences. Helena Bochořáková-Dittrichová (1894–1980) was the first woman to produce a wordless novel, \"Childhood\" (1931), which presented middle-class life, rather than the working-class struggle found in the works of Masereel or Nückel. Bochořáková described her books as \"cycles\" rather than novels. Surrealist artist Max Ernst made the silent collage novel \"Une semaine de bonté\" in 1934. Following World War II, (1890–1968), a member of the German Expressionist group Die Brücke, produced \"The Tightrope Walker and the Clown\" (1949).\n\nIn 1926, the American Lynd Ward (1905–1985) moved to Leipzig to study graphic arts; while there, he discovered the works of Masereel and Otto Nückel. He produced six such works of his own; he preferred to call them \"pictorial narratives\". The first, (1929), was his most popular. Ward used wood engraving rather than woodcutting and varied image sizes from page to page. sold 20,000 copies, and other American artists followed up on this success with their own wordless novels in the 1930s.\n\nCartoonist Milt Gross's \"He Done Her Wrong\" (1930) was a parody of the genre; the book uses varying panel designs akin to those of comics: the action sometimes takes place outside the panel borders and \"dialogue balloons\" show in images what the characters are saying. Cartoonist and illustrator William Gropper's \"Alay-oop\" (1930) tells of three entertainers' disappointed dreams. In \"Abraham Lincoln: Biography in Woodcuts\" (1933) Charles Turzak documented the American president. Animator Myron Waldman (1908–2006) wrote a wordless tale of a plump young woman looking for a glamorous husband. The book, \"Eve\" (1943), also uses \"picture balloons\" as \"He Done Her Wrong\" does.\n\nInspired by mediaeval religious block books and working in an Art Deco style, American illustrator James Reid (1907–1989) produced one wordless novel, \"The Life of Christ\" (1930); due to the book's religious content, the Soviet Union barred its importation under its policies on religion.\n\nIn 1938, Italian-American Giacomo Patri (1898–1978) produced his only wordless novel, the linocut \"White Collar\". It chronicles the aftermath of the 1929 stock market crash and was intended to motivate white-collar workers to unionize. It also deals with controversial topics such as abortion, accessibility of health care for the poor, and loss of Christian faith. From 1948 to 1951, Canadian Laurence Hyde (1914–1987) produced his single wordless novel, the woodcut \"Southern Cross\", in response to the American atomic tests in the Bikini Atoll. The work tells of an American evacuation of an island for nuclear tests, where one family is left behind. Polish-American Si Lewen's (1918– ) first book, \"The Parade: A Story in 55 Drawings\" (1957), won praise from Albert Einstein for its anti-war message. Canadian George Kuthan's \"Aphrodite's Cup\" (1964) is an erotic book drawn in an ancient Greek style. In the early 21st century, Canadian George Walker made wordless woodcut novels, beginning with \"Book of Hours\" (2010), about the lives of those in the World Trade Center complex just before the September 11 attacks.\n\nThe popularity of wordless novels peaked around 1929 to 1931, when \"talkies\" were introduced and began to supersede silent films. In the 1930s the Nazis in Germany suppressed and detained many printmakers and banned Masereel's works as \"degenerate art\". Following World War II, US censors suppressed books with socialist views, including the works of Lynd Ward, on whom the FBI kept files over his socialist sympathies; this censorship has made early editions of wordless novels scarce collectors' items in the US.\n\nBy the 1940s, most artists had given up on the genre. The most devoted practitioners, Masereel and Ward, moved on to other work for which they became better known; Masereel's obituary did not even mention his wordless novels. Many wordless novels remained out of print until the rise of the graphic novel revived interest amongst readers and publishers in the early 21st century.\n\nThere have been sporadic examples of textless comics throughout the medium's history. In the US, there were comic strips such as Otto Soglow's \"The Little King\", begun in 1931, and Carl Anderson's \"Henry\", begun in 1932. German cartoonist E. O. Plauen's wordless domestic comic strip \"Father and Son\" (1934–37) was popular in Germany, and was collected in three volumes. Antonio Prohías's textless \"Mad\" magazine feature \"Spy vs. Spy\" began in 1961.\n\nCartoonist Will Eisner (1917–2005) first came upon the work of Lynd Ward in 1938. Eisner was an early pioneer in the American comic book industry and saw in Ward's work a greater potential for comics. Eisner's ambitions were rebuffed by his peers, who saw comics as no more than low-status entertainment. Eisner withdrew from the commercial comics industry in the early 1950s to do government and educational work. He returned in the 1970s when the atmosphere had changed and his readers and peers seemed more receptive to his ambitions. In 1978, he began a career of creating book-length comics, the first of which was \"A Contract with God\"; the book was marketed as a \"graphic novel\", a term that became standard towards the end of the 20th century. Eisner called Ward \"perhaps the most provocative graphic storyteller\" of the 20th century. He wrote that Ward's \"Vertigo\" (1937) required considerable investment from readers in order to fill in the story between images.\n\nInterest in the wordless novel revived with the rise of the graphic novel. Comics fans discussed the works of Masereel and others in fanzines, and the discussions turned to talk of the Great American Novel being made in comics. These discussions inspired cartoonist Art Spiegelman (b. 1948), who in 1973 made a four-page strip, \"Prisoner on the Hell Planet\", in an Expressionist style inspired by Ward's work. Spiegelman later incorporated the strip into his graphic novel \"Maus\" (1992).\n\nWhile graphic novels generally use captions and dialogue, cartoonists such as Eric Drooker, Peter Kuper, , Brian Ralph, Masashi Tanaka, Lewis Trondheim, and Billy Simms have made wordless graphic novels. As Gross did in \"He Done Her Wrong\", 's wordless \"oeuvre\" uses textless word balloons containing symbols, icons, and other images. The influence of the wordless novel is prominent in Drooker's \"Flood\" (1992) and Kuper's \"The System\" (1997), both metaphorical stories that focus on social themes. Since 2011, the Pennsylvania State University Libraries and the Pennsylvania Center for the Book have awarded the annual Lynd Ward Prize for Graphic Novel, a cash prize established by Ward's daughters to highlight their father's influence on the development of the graphic novel.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56493375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56493375", "title": "Yvonne Dold-Samplonius", "text": "Yvonne Dold-Samplonius\n\nYvonne Dold-Samplonius (20 May 1937 – 16 June 2014) was a Dutch mathematician and historian who specialized in the history of Islamic mathematics during the Middle age. She was particularly interested in the mathematical methods used by Islamic architects and builders of the Middle Ages for measurements of volumes and measurements of religious buildings or in the design of muqarnas.\n\nBorn on 20 May 1937 in Haarlem, Yvonne Samplonius obtained her degree in mathematics and Arabic from the University of Amsterdam (Doktoratsexamen) in 1966. Yvonne Dold-Samplonius married in 1965 the German mathematician Albrecht Dold. She studied from 1966 to 1967 at Harvard University under the direction of Professor John E. Murdoch. She obtained in 1977 a PhD for her analysis of the treatise \"Kitāb al-mafrādāt li Aqāţun\" (Book of Assumptions of Aq\"ā\"tun) under the supervision of Prof Bruins and Prof. Juan Vernet.\n\nShe came into contact with the work of the Persian mathematician, physicist and astronomer Abū Sahl al-Qūhī, who worked in Baghdad in the 10th century and worked on the geometrical forms of buildings. Through his work, she became interested in the geometrical calculations that helped building many domes of palaces and mosques, called muqarnas, in the Arab world and Persia. She wrote articles on the Islamic mathematicians Jamshīd al-Kāshī and Abu-Abdullah Muhammad ibn Īsa Māhānī in the Dictionary of the Middle Ages and in the Dictionary of Scientific Biography.\n\nIn her last years her interest shifted to mathematics in Islamic architecture from an historic point of view. Since 1995, she has been an associate member of the Interdisciplinary Center for Scientific Computing (IWR) of the University of Heidelberg, with whom she has published several videos on Islamic geometrical art. In 1985, she is visiting professor at the University of Siena. In 2000, she organized with Joseph Dauben the conference \"2000 Years of Transmission of Mathematical Ideas\". In 2002, she became a Corresponding Member of the International Academy of the History of Sciences and was elected effective member in 2007. She was made honorary citizen of Kashan in Iran in 2000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53908505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53908505", "title": "Łukasz Konarzewski", "text": "Łukasz Konarzewski\n\nŁukasz Konarzewski, born September 22, 1955 in Istebna, is a Polish historian of art, art restorer, a civil servant of both central and local governmental administration.\n\nHe comes from the Konarzewski family of artists, residing in Istebna, who have been professionally active in Silesia since the 1920s. He is the son of Ludwik Konarzewski-junior and Joanna Konarzewska. He studied in the Department of History of Art at Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University of Warsaw (Warsaw Theological Academy at that time). In 1984 he defended his final M.A. thesis, under the supervision of the rev. prof. Janusz Pasierb and the assistant-professor Andrzej Olszewski, which dealt with Polish art of the first half of the 20th century.\n\nIn his public activity he deals with resources, culture management, popularizing culture, conservation, and also the shaping of the environment. In the years 1991-1999 he was a Municipal Restorer in Cieszyn. Thanks to his creation and application of a conservation method, which was precursory at that time and which enabled the linking of activities of various fields, such as conservation, sociology and social studies as well as planning, it was possible to recover and retain the historic and original character of Cieszyn, which also visibly influenced the quality of the public space. Thanks to this the town became an example to follow in the region, as well as beyond it, when it comes to new solutions in art conservation and architecture. In the area of scientific research, he is one of the discoverers of part of the mediaeval fortifications on Castle Hill in Cieszyn, including, especially, the cylindrical tower, the so-called Tower of Ultimate Defence from the 13th century. The discovery contributes significantly to the development of research into the history of architecture in Poland.\n\nHe also conducts research on the methodology of preservation and protection of monuments as well as the influence of activities carried out by the civil service on the shaping of the cultural environment and landscape.\n\nSince the late 90’s of the 20th century he has been working on identification, description, management, promotion and protection of culture and the cultural heritage in Cieszyn Silesia, which is situated on the border between Poland and the Czech Republic. He is the author of a few hundred studies and publications in the fields of art and culture of the 19th and the 20th centuries in the Upper Silesia. They concern particularly the protection of the cultural heritage, methodology and guidelines, history and resources of culture and art, as well as artistic biographies and bibliography of the history of art in Cieszyn Silesia.\nHe was the initiator and the academic editor of the first monograph on Cieszyn Silesia with respect to the history of art.\nHe is also the author of \"“The County programme for the protection of monuments…”\" for Cieszyn county (which was one of the first programs of this kind in Poland) and \"Vademecum of contemporary creators of culture and artistic groups\" in Cieszyn county. He was one of the originators of the idea to create the rev. Leopold Jan Szersznik Award, which is the highest distinction and promotion for people and institutions that create, propagate and protect the cultural heritage on the Polish side of Cieszyn Silesia, as well as Zaolzie (its western part that lies in the Czech Republic). Since 2015 he has been the chairman of the committee that grants the award.\n\n\n⃰ Przemysław Czernek, “The Architecture of Cieszyn Silesia after 1945,” [in:] \"Culture and art of Cieszyn Silesia throughout centuries\" edited by Łukasz Konarzewski, vol. 8. Cieszyn 2016, pages 362, 370-371, 373 ;\n\n⃰ Łukasz Konarzewski, “The influence of the civil service on the quality of space, using examples of conservation works in the 90’s of the 20th century in Cieszyn” [in:] \"Ochrona Zabytków\", no 2/2016 2(269), LXIX, Warszawa 2016. pages 31–54 ;\n\n⃰ Wojciech Święs, “The Cultural Life” [in:] \"Śląsk Cieszyński w latach 1945-2015\". edited by Krzysztof Nowak, Cieszyn 2015, p. 442 \n\n"}
