{"id": "2348573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2348573", "title": "Anton Ferdinand", "text": "Anton Ferdinand\n\nAnton Julian Ferdinand (born 18 February 1985) is an English footballer who plays for St Mirren as a defender. He was a product of the West Ham United academy and has also played for their senior team, Queens Park Rangers, Sunderland, Bursaspor, Antalyaspor and Reading. He has also played for England at under-21 level.\n\nFerdinand was born in Peckham, London, to Janice from Ireland and Julian from Saint Lucia. His brother, Rio, played for Queens Park Rangers and Manchester United, and is a former captain of the England national football team; and his cousin, Les, is a former England international. Anton showed considerable talent from an early age. Like his brother, Rio, he preferred to play in defence. His ability in this position led to him being signed to West Ham United's academy.\n\nFerdinand joined West Ham aged nine signing a three-year contract in the summer of 2002. He was handed his first team debut, by manager Glenn Roeder, in August 2003 when he started the 2–1 victory at Preston North End on the 2003–04 season's opening day. He went on to feature in 26 games that season.\n\nIn the 2004–05 season, he cemented his first team place with several key performances including scoring the opening goal, and his first for West Ham, on the final day of the season as West Ham beat Watford 2–1 at Vicarage Road to make the play-offs. In the Final Ferdinand was a member of the team which beat Preston 1–0, earning them promotion back into the Premier League after an absence of two years. At the end of July 2005, Ferdinand signed a three-year contract extension with the club.\n\nFerdinand won the Premier League Player of the Month award in January 2006 following his brother Rio to become the first brothers to win the award. In the 2006 FA Cup Final against Liverpool in Cardiff, Ferdinand fell to his knees after missing the decisive penalty in the shoot out.\n\nIn March 2007 it was revealed that Ferdinand had been fined two weeks' wages (estimated at £45,000) for lying about his whereabouts. Ferdinand told the club he needed to go to the Isle of Wight to visit his grandmother when in fact, he went to South Carolina to celebrate his 22nd birthday. West Ham lost the following game to relegation rivals Charlton Athletic 0–4. His last goal for West Ham was against Fulham on 12 January 2008, scoring in the 69th minute to put West Ham 2–1 ahead, which proved to be the winning goal.\n\nOn 27 August 2008, Ferdinand signed for Sunderland for an undisclosed fee on a four-year deal. Sunderland manager Roy Keane also stated after the signing of Ferdinand that he viewed him as a future England International. Ferdinand made a promising start to his Sunderland career in a partnership formed with Danny Collins but Sunderland's poor results at the start of the 2008–09 season saw Keane experiment with several different back four line-ups resulting in Ferdinand being in and out of the side. Following captain Dean Whitehead's departure to Stoke City in July 2009, Nyron Nosworthy took Whitehead's vacated number 6 jersey and Ferdinand switched from number 26 to number 5. Ferdinand fell out of favour with new manager Steve Bruce and first team opportunities became limited and he was not initially given a squad number for the 2010–11 Premier League season as loan-signing John Mensah was given Ferdinand's number 5 shirt, but was later given number 29.\n\nOn 31 August 2011, Sunderland accepted a bid from Queens Park Rangers for Ferdinand. The transfer was confirmed on 1 September. He made his debut on 12 September, playing the full 90 minutes, alongside Danny Gabbidon in a 0–0 draw with Newcastle United at Loftus Road. On 23 October, in a match between QPR and Chelsea, Ferdinand alleged racial abuse by Chelsea captain, John Terry, claiming Terry called him a \"fucking black cunt\" during the game; a claim denied by Terry. On 1 November, the Metropolitan Police announced a formal investigation into the allegations. On 1 February 2012 at Westminster Magistrates Court, Terry was accused of a racially aggravated public order offence in relation to the game at Loftus Road on 23 October. He entered a not-guilty plea and stood trial on 9 July. On 13 July, after a four-day trial, Terry was acquitted. In July, following the court hearing Terry was charged by The Football Association with \"using abusive and/or insulting words and/or behaviour towards Ferdinand and which included a reference to colour and/or race contrary to FA Rule E3[2]\". In September 2012, after a four-day hearing, he was found guilty, banned for four games and fined £220,000. On 9 August 2013, Ferdinand was released by Queens Park Rangers in an effort to cut costs having been relegated to the Championship.\n\nIn January 2013, after struggling for a first-team place with QPR, Ferdinand joined Turkish club Bursaspor on loan until the end of the season. Ferdinand played seven games for Bursaspor helping them to fourth place in the 2012–13 Super League and a qualifying position in the 2013–14 Europa League.\n\nOn 14 August 2013, Ferdinand signed for Turkish team Antalyaspor on a three-year contract. At the end of the 2013–14 season he was released by the club.\n\nFerdinand was heavily linked with a move to Police United of the Thai Premier League during the summer of 2014. However, Ferdinand denied reports that a deal to join Police United had been completed. The next week, he arrived in Bangkok to sign for Police United on 18 June 2014. He and Teeratep Winothai were unveiled as new Police United signings in a press conference on 20 June and he said former QPR teammate Jay Bothroyd, who plays for Muangthong United convinced him to move to Thailand. The BBC later reported that the move had fallen through and that Ferdinand was in advanced negotiations with Championship side Reading with the CEO of Police United, Samrit Bunditkitsada, being part of a consortium which bought a 90% stake in the English club in July.\n\nOn 11 August 2014, Ferdinand signed a two-year deal with Reading on a free transfer. Ferdinand did not make his Reading debut until 4 November 2014. He had been side-lined with a hamstring injury but played the first half in a 3–0 home win against Rotherham United. Reading announced on 9 May 2016, that Ferdinand would leave Reading when his contract expired at the end of June 2016.\n\nOn 27 August 2016, Ferdinand signed for Southend United on a one-year deal. On 9 August 2017, Ferdinand signed a new two-year contract to stay at Southend United. At the end of the 2017–18 season he was transfer listed by the club. On 31 August 2018, he left the club by mutual consent and became a free agent.\n\nOn 14 September 2018, he joined Scottish Premiership side St Mirren.\n\nFerdinand was a regular selection for England's Under-21 side, having made his début in a 3–1 win over Ukraine at the Riverside Stadium on 17 August 2004.\n\nFerdinand was selected to be part of the England squad for the 2007 UEFA European Under-21 Football Championship in the Netherlands, and given the number 5 shirt. Going into the tournament whilst recovering from an injury, he made only one appearance, as substitute, in the semi-final against the hosts. The match finished 1–1 after extra time, and in the penalty shootout which followed, he scored one and missed one as the Netherlands won 13–12. This was his final U21 appearance.\n\nFerdinand is also eligible to play for the Republic of Ireland national team through his mother and the St. Lucian national team through his father.\n\nFerdinand is a Christian. He is the brother of former footballer Rio Ferdinand. He is the cousin of Les Ferdinand, a former Queens Park Rangers striker, and Kane Ferdinand, a midfielder for Woking.\n\nIn October 2006, Ferdinand was arrested on assault charges following a fracas outside a nightclub in Ilford. He was charged in November 2006. He appeared at Snaresbrook Crown Court on 12 November 2007 charged with assault occasioning actual bodily harm and affray, arising from this incident. It was alleged that Ferdinand had punched Emile Walker. In his defence, Ferdinand said he had feared he was going to be robbed of his £64,000 watch and was defending himself. On 20 November 2007, Ferdinand was acquitted as the jury accepted he was acting in self-defence.\n\nFerdinand is an Athlete Ambassador for Right To Play, the world's leading sports for development charity.\n\nIndividual\n\n"}
{"id": "38925838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38925838", "title": "Ase (Yoruba)", "text": "Ase (Yoruba)\n\nAse or ashe (from the Yoruba \"às̩e̩\") is a West African philosophical concept through which the Yoruba of Nigeria conceive the power to make things happen and produce change. It is given by Olodumare to everything — gods, ancestors, spirits, humans, animals, plants, rocks, rivers, and voiced words such as songs, prayers, praises, curses, or even everyday conversation. Existence, according to Yoruba thought, is dependent upon it.\n\nIn addition to its sacred characteristics, \"ase\" also has important social ramifications, reflected in its translation as \"power, authority, command.\" A person who, through training, experience, and initiation, learns how to use the essential life force of things to willfully effect change is called an \"alaase\".\n\nRituals to invoke divine forces reflect this same concern for the autonomous \"ase\" of particular entities. The recognition of the uniqueness and autonomy of the \"ase\" of persons and gods is what structures society and its relationship with the other-world.\n\nThe concept of \"ase\" influences how many of the Yoruba arts are composed. In the visual arts, a design may be segmented or seriate - a \"discontinuous aggregate in which the units of the whole are discrete and share equal value with the other units.\" Such elements can be seen in Ifá trays and bowls, veranda posts, carved doors, and ancestral masks.\n\nRegarding composition in Yoruba art as a reflection of the concept of \"ase\", Drewal writes:\n\nThe head, or \"ori\", is vested with great importance in Yoruba art and thought. When portrayed in sculpture, the size of the head is often represented as four or five times its normal size in relation to the body in order to convey that it is the site of a person's \"ase\" as well as his or her essential nature, or \"iwa\". The Yoruba distinguish between the exterior (\"ode\") and inner (\"inu\") head. \"Ode\" is the physical appearance of a person, which may either mask or reveal one's inner (\"inu\") aspects. Inner qualities, such as patience and self-control, should dominate outer ones.\n\nThe head also links the person with the other-world. The \"imori\" ceremony (which translates to \"knowing-the-head\") is the first rite that is performed after a Yoruba child is born. During \"imori\", a diviner determines whether the child comes from his or her mother's or father's lineages or from a particular \"orisa\". If the latter is the case, then the child will undergo an orisa initiation during adulthood, during which the person's \"ori inu\" becomes the spiritual vessel for that orisa's \"ase\". To prepare for these ceremonies, the person's head is shaved, bathed and anointed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21488366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21488366", "title": "Bangi language", "text": "Bangi language\n\nThe Bangi language, or Bobangi, is a relative and main lexical source of Lingala spoken in central Africa. Dialects of the language are spoken on both sides of the Ubangi River and Congo River.\n\nAs the Bobangi people came to dominate the slave trade along the upper Congo River in the late 18th century, the Bangi language was used to facilitate trade between different ethnic groups in the region. Linguist John Whitehead claimed that the Moye, Likuba, Bonga, Mpama, Lusakani, and Bangala peoples all used Bangi for intercommunication in the 1890s. Traders in the region who did not speak Bangi used a trade trade language that borrowed heavily from Bangi. At the height of indigenous trade along the upper river, the Bobangi dominated the 500 kilometer section of the Congo between the Kwah River and the equator, which most river trade passed through. Other ethnic groups in this area were either assimilated into the Bobangi ethnic alliance, adopting the Bangi language, or were driven off. However, the Bobangi dominance over trade was ended by Europeans in the late 19th century when colonial powers pushed local indigenous groups out of profitable trade. By the late twentieth century, there were very few Bobangi people remaining in the area they had controlled a century earlier, and the Bangi language is no longer widespread.\n\n"}
{"id": "277279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=277279", "title": "Barry Minkow", "text": "Barry Minkow\n\nBarry Jay Minkow (born March 22, 1966) is a former American businessman, pastor, and convicted felon. While still in high school, he founded ZZZZ Best (pronounced \"Zee Best\"), which appeared to be an immensely successful carpet-cleaning and restoration company. However, it was actually a front to attract investment for a massive Ponzi scheme. It collapsed in 1987, costing investors and lenders $100 million—one of the largest investment frauds ever perpetrated by a single person, as well as one of the largest accounting frauds in history. The scheme is often used as a case study of accounting fraud.\n\nAfter being released from jail, Minkow became a pastor and fraud investigator in San Diego, and spoke at schools about ethics. This all came to an end in 2011, when he admitted to helping deliberately drive down the stock price of homebuilder Lennar and was ordered back to prison for five years. Three years later he admitted to defrauding his own church and was sentenced to an additional five years in prison. As a result of his crimes, he faces having to pay a total of $612 million in restitution—an amount that he will likely spend the rest of his life repaying.\n\nMinkow was born in Inglewood, California to a Jewish family, and was raised in the Reseda area of Los Angeles. When he was nine years old, his mother got him a job as a telemarketer with the carpet-cleaning business where she worked. At the age of 15, while a sophomore at Cleveland High School, Minkow started ZZZZ Best in his parents' garage with three employees and four phones. In the early days, he had to rely on friends to drive him to jobs since he did not have a driver's license.\n\nAt first, Minkow struggled to meet basic expenses. Two banks closed his business account because California law did not allow minors to sign binding contracts, including checks. He was also plagued by customer complaints and demands for payment from suppliers. At times, he found it difficult even to meet payroll. Faced with a shortage of operating capital, he financed his business via check kiting, stealing and selling his grandmother's jewelry, staging break-ins at his offices, and running up fraudulent credit card charges.\n\nSoon after, Minkow branched into the \"insurance restoration\" business. With the help of Tom Padgett, an insurance claims adjuster, Minkow forged numerous documents claiming that ZZZZ Best was involved in several restoration projects for Padgett's company. Padgett and Minkow formed a fake company, Interstate Appraisal Services, that verified the details of these restorations to Minkow's bankers. Flush with loans from these banks, Minkow expanded ZZZZ Best across Southern California.\n\nWhile most Ponzi schemes are based on non-existent businesses, ZZZZ Best's carpet-cleaning division was real and won high marks for its quality. However, its insurance restoration division, which eventually accounted for 86% of company revenues, was fake. Minkow raised money by factoring his accounts receivable for work under contract, as well as floating funds through several banks in an elaborate check kiting scheme.\n\nAfter graduating from high school in 1985, Minkow devoted all of his time to ZZZZ Best. Short of cash, he got a loan from Jack Catain, a Los Angeles businessman who had ties to organized crime. Catain later sued Minkow for not paying him his share of the company's profits, but Minkow claimed Catain was a usurer. The suit was still working its way through the courts at the time of Catain's death in 1987. Other organized crime figures turned up as Minkow's advisers, which unnerved his employees. For instance, a major shareholder, Maurice Rind, had been convicted of securities fraud in 1976. Minkow was also a business partner with Robert Viggiano, a convicted jewel thief and reputed loanshark.\n\nAt the suggestion of a friend, Minkow took the company public in January 1986, garnering a spot on NASDAQ. The accountant who audited the company before it went public did not visit the insurance restoration sites himself. Had he done so, he would have discovered they were mailboxes located throughout the San Fernando Valley. Minkow retained a 53 percent controlling interest, making him an instant millionaire on paper. Going public seemingly offered him a way to cover up his fraudulent activities. Under securities law at the time, he had to retain his personal shares for two years. He planned to sell a million shares to the public in January 1988, believing this would give him enough money to pay everyone off and go completely legitimate.\n\nIn order to obtain more financing, Minkow was persuaded to raise $15 million of capital through an initial public offering of ZZZZ Best stock. When accountants wanted to inspect the company's operations, Minkow borrowed fake offices for a tour of \"Interstate Appraisal Services\" and used an incomplete building to present a fake restoration job. Mark Morze, ZZZZ Best's financial consultant, tricked the accountants sent to perform the necessary due diligence by faking thousands of documents. The public offering closed in December and Minkow became the youngest person to lead a company through an IPO in American financial history.\n\nMinkow launched a massive television advertising campaign portraying ZZZZ Best as a carpet cleaner that Southern Californians could trust. He owned a Ferrari and a BMW, and bought a mansion in the wealthy Valley community of Woodland Hills. He had ambitions of making the company \"the General Motors of the carpet-cleaning industry.\"\n\nThe company's chief financial officer, Charles Arrington, was accused of running up $91,000 in fraudulent charges against customers of his florist business. When the Feshbach brothers, a pair of short-sellers, learned that Minkow still stood behind Arrington, they did further investigating and discovered ZZZZ Best's claimed $7 million contract to clean carpets in Sacramento was likely a fraud. The Feshbachs and other short-sellers began taking positions, anticipating that the company's stock would fall. Additionally, none of the company's four outside directors had any experience running a public company.\n\nBy February 1987, ZZZZ Best was trading at $18 a share on NASDAQ, valuing the company at $280 million. The company now had 1,030 employees with offices across California, Arizona and Nevada. Minkow's stake was worth $100 million. He appeared to be the ultimate American success story.\n\nHowever, the company was still facing severe cash flow shortages from paying investors for the non-existent restoration projects. Minkow needed another infusion of cash and thought he had it when he heard that KeyServ, the authorized carpet cleaner for Sears, was being sold by its British parent. Drexel Burnham Lambert offered to finance the deal with a private placement of junk bonds. Minkow thought that KeyServ's Sears business would give ZZZZ Best enough cash to end the Ponzi scheme sooner than planned.\n\nAlthough KeyServ was double the size of Minkow's company, the two companies agreed to a $25 million deal in which ZZZZ Best would be the surviving company. The merger would have made Minkow the president and chairman of the board of the largest independent carpet-cleaning company in the nation. Even as the process of merging with KeyServ got underway, Minkow had ambitions of becoming more powerful. He was already making plans to raise $700–800 million to buy ServiceMaster in a hostile takeover. He also had plans to expand to the United Kingdom. Outside of carpet cleaning, he had begun preliminary discussions to buy Major League Baseball's Seattle Mariners.\n\nThen, almost as rapidly as ZZZZ Best rose, it fell due to the credit card fraud of several years earlier. Minkow had blamed the fraudulent charges on unscrupulous contractors and another employee, and paid back most of the victims. However, he had not paid back a homemaker who had been overcharged a few hundred dollars. Minkow ignored the woman's requests to pay her back. The woman tracked down several other people who had been defrauded by Minkow and gave a diary of her findings to the \"Los Angeles Times\". The \"Times\" then wrote a story revealing that Minkow had run up $72,000 in fraudulent credit card charges in 1984 and 1985. The story, which ran just days before the KeyServ merger was to close, sent ZZZZ Best stock plunging 28 percent.\n\nWithin hours of the story breaking, ZZZZ Best's banks either called their loans or threatened to do so. Drexel postponed closing until it could investigate further. Later that day at a press conference, a reporter detonated another bombshell. She had evidence that the Sacramento project didn't even exist. More seriously, she'd discovered that ZZZZ Best did not have a contractor's license required for large-scale restoration work. To calm nervous investors, Minkow issued a press release touting record profits and revenues, but did so without notifying Ernst & Whinney (now part of Ernst & Young), the firm responsible for auditing the company prior to the KeyServ deal. The press release also implied that Drexel had cleared ZZZZ Best of any wrongdoing, briefly stopping the decline. However, Drexel abruptly pulled out of the deal a few days later, causing the stock price to fall again. Drexel's withdrawal stopped the deal only four to seven days before it was due to close.\n\nThe day after this press release, Ernst & Whinney discovered that Minkow had written several checks to support the validity of the non-existent contracts. Many of them had been written to an associate who later told Ernst & Whinney officials about the fraud. Minkow denied knowing the man, but shortly after the checks were discovered, Ernst & Whinney discovered that Minkow had cut two checks to him for an unrelated matter. When Minkow could not explain the checks, Ernst & Whinney resigned as his company's auditor. However, it did not inform the SEC of its suspicions until a month later.\n\nOn July 2, Minkow abruptly resigned for \"health reasons.\" By this time, his company's stock had tumbled to $3.50 a share—an 81 percent drop from its high in February. It turned out that on June 27, an independent law firm ZZZZ Best retained to investigate the allegations of wrongdoing asked for the addresses for all of the company's restoration jobs. Minkow knew he could not produce them, prompting him to resign six days later. Later, he reportedly told a member of his board that the insurance restoration business had been a sham from the very beginning.\n\nZZZZ Best's new board conducted an internal investigation that largely substantiated the fraud allegations. On July 6, it sued Minkow, alleging that he had absconded with $23 million in company funds. The company claimed that its assets had been drained to the point that it was forced into Chapter 11 bankruptcy. Two days later, the Los Angeles Police Department raided ZZZZ Best's headquarters and Minkow's home, and found evidence that the company was being used to launder drug profits for organized crime.\n\nMinkow and 10 other ZZZZ Best insiders were indicted by a Los Angeles federal grand jury in January 1988 on 54 counts of racketeering, securities fraud, money laundering, embezzlement, mail fraud, tax evasion and bank fraud. The indictment accused Minkow of bilking banks and investors of millions of dollars while systematically draining his company of assets. It also accused Minkow of setting up dummy companies, writing phony invoices and conducting tours of purported restoration sites. Prosecutors estimated that as much as 90 percent of the company's revenue was fraudulent. On June 16, prosecutors won a superseding indictment charging Minkow with credit card fraud and two additional counts of mail fraud.\n\nWhile Minkow admitted to manipulating the company's stock, he claimed that he was forced to turn the company into a Ponzi scheme under pressure from the organized-crime figures who secretly controlled his company, a story he later admitted was false. On December 14, he was found guilty on all charges. On March 27, 1989, he was sentenced to 25 years in prison. He was also placed on five years probation and ordered to pay $26 million in restitution. In sentencing him, U.S. District Court Judge Dickran Tevrizian described Minkow as a man without a conscience. He rejected Minkow's plea for a lighter sentence as \"a joke\" and \"a slap on the wrist\" for someone who had manipulated the financial system. The SEC subsequently banned him from ever serving as an officer or director of a public company again. He served under seven and a half years, most of them at Federal Correctional Institution, Englewood.\n\nWhile imprisoned, Minkow had become a born-again Christian. During his prison stay, he became involved in Christian ministry, completing coursework through Liberty University's School of Lifelong Learning.\n\nAfter Minkow's early release from prison in 1995, he went to work as Pastor of Evangelism at the Church at Rocky Peak in Chatsworth, California. He also became director of the church's Bible Institute.\n\nIn 1995, he wrote a first-hand account of the ZZZZ Best scam, \"Clean Sweep.\" All of the book's proceeds went toward repaying his victims. His other substantial debt is a $7 million loan from Union Bank.\n\nIn 1997, he became pastor of Community Bible Church in San Diego. Soon after his arrival, a church member asked him to look into a money management firm in nearby Orange County. Suspecting something was amiss, Minkow alerted federal authorities, who discovered the firm was a $300 million pyramid scheme. This was the beginning of the Fraud Discovery Institute, a for-profit investigative firm (which eventually transpired to be a fraud itself). His original targets were penny stock companies, which are often havens for fraud. However, he soon attracted the attention of \"The Wall Street Journal\" and Bloomberg News. He also began appearing on \"Your World with Neil Cavuto\" as a fraud expert. Minkow first gained national attention when \"60 Minutes\" aired a profile of him in August 2006. Several Wall Street investors liked what they saw, and sent him enough money to go after bigger targets. Minkow claimed to have uncovered $1 billion worth of fraud over the years.\n\nMinkow's motives were brought into question by multiple news stories concluding that Minkow was shorting stock before he released a report on a public company. According to the \"San Diego Union-Tribune,\" Minkow had engaged in this practice as early as 2006. Minkow's critics denounced this practice as unethical, if not illegal. At least one critic accused him of engaging in short and distort, a form of securities fraud which is a reversal of a pump and dump scheme. For instance, he accused Herbalife of a \"laundry list\" of issues, and Minkow had \"correctly revealed that Herbalife's president had inflated his résumé.\" Herbalife paid Minkow $300,000, after which Minkow issued a press release withdrawing all accusations and contentions against Herbalife, and removed all the accusations from his website. Additionally, Minkow made $50,000 from shorting Herbalife stock. Minkow continued to profit from his short sales position due to sharp decreases in the reported company's stock price immediately after releasing a new report.\n\nOn 20 February 2007, Minkow, distributed a 500-page report to officials at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) accusing USANA of operating an illegal pyramid scheme. USANA countered by lodging suits against Minkow and his company claiming defamation and stock manipulation.\n\nOn the day Minkow's report was released, USANA's shares had traded at $61.19 but by August the share price had tumbled to less than $35. Minkow acknowledged that he was shorting USANA's shares, hoping to profit from a drop in the stock price. However, in reference to USANA's lawsuit, news columnist Herb Greenberg commented that the criticism of Minkow \"is a bunch of malarkey; he has a right to publish his research, as long as people know his position [in the stock].\" Minkow had revealed in the report that he was betting for the stock to go down. USANA dropped the defamation suit and in March 2008 U.S. District Judge Tena Campbell threw out four of the five claims brought by USANA against Minkow ruling that USANAs claims violated California's anti-SLAPP law for suing Minkow for fair criticism. and that USANA did not show a reasonable probability of winning on those claims. The judge also cited two examples where USANA failed to refute Minkow's claims that their products were overpriced and of no better quality than other lower-priced brands. The remaining charge of stock manipulation was settled in July 2008 when USANA and Minkow reached an undisclosed settlement, which included the removal of all USANA-related materials from the Fraud Discovery Institute website, a related Chinese website, and from YouTube. Minkow also agreed to never trade in USANA's stock again. Separately from the settlement, the company paid $142,510 in attorney fees to Minkow and his institute under an order from federal Magistrate Samuel Alba. Court documents show that USANA never pursued others whom they suspected of being part of the alleged stock manipulation nor did they ask for an injunction, their only avenue of release in this case.\n\nMinkow almost always held a position in securities on which he reported. However, he has since stated that while his lawyers advised him this practice was legal, it was probably unethical. Several companies have sued Minkow for making false accusations against them, most of which have been settled out of court.\n\nIn 2009, Minkow issued a report accusing major homebuilder Lennar of massive fraud. Minkow claimed that irregularities in Lennar's off-balance-sheet debt accounting were evidence of a massive Ponzi scheme. Minkow accused Lennar of not disclosing enough information about this to its shareholders, and also claimed a Lennar executive took out a fraudulent personal loan. In an accompanying YouTube video, Minkow denounced Lennar as \"a financial crime in progress\" and \"a corporate bully.\" Lennar's stock plummeted in the wake of Minkow's reports. From January 9 (when Minkow first made his accusations) to January 22, Lennar's stock tumbled from $11.57 a share to only $6.55. Minkow issued the report after being contacted by Nicholas Marsch, a San Diego developer who had filed two lawsuits against Lennar for fraud. Indeed, the language of the FDI report echoed that used in Marsch's filings. One of Marsch's suits was summarily thrown out; the other ended with Marsch having to pay Lennar $12 million in counterclaims.\n\nLennar responded by adding Minkow as a defendant in a libel-and-extortion suit against Marsch. Minkow was initially unconcerned, since he had prevailed before in similar cases on free-speech grounds. According to court records, Minkow had shorted Lennar stock, buying $20,000 worth of options in a bet that the stock would fall. Even more seriously, he also \"bought\" Lennar stock after his FDI report, believing the stock would rebound after its dramatic plunge. Minkow initially denied doing this, only to be forced to recant when confronted with trading records. Minkow also forged documents alleging misconduct on Lennar's part, and lied about having to go to the emergency room on the night before he was first scheduled to testify. He also went forward with the report even after a private investigator he had hired for the case could not substantiate Marsch's claims. In an unrelated development, it was also revealed that Minkow operated the FDI out of the offices of his church and even used church money to fund it—something which could potentially jeopardize his church's tax-exempt status.\n\nOn December 27, 2010, Florida Circuit Court Judge Gill Freeman issued terminating sanctions against Minkow in response to a motion by Lennar. Freeman found that Minkow had repeatedly lied under oath, destroyed or withheld evidence, concealed witnesses, and deliberately tried to \"cover up his misconduct.\" According to Freeman, Minkow had even lied to his own lawyers about his behavior. Freeman determined that Minkow had perpetrated \"a fraud on the court\" that was so egregious that letting the case go any further would be a disservice to justice. In her view, \"no remedy short of default\" was appropriate for Minkow's lies. She ordered Minkow to reimburse Lennar for the legal expenses it incurred while ferreting out his lies. According to legal experts, it is extremely rare for a judge to issue terminating sanctions, since they are reserved for particularly egregious misconduct and have the effect of revoking a litigant's right to defend himself. Earlier, Freeman had been so angered by Minkow's behavior that she called him a liar in open court, a rarity for a judge. Lennar estimates that its attorneys and investigators spent hundreds of millions of dollars exposing Minkow's lies.\n\nOn March 16, 2011, Minkow announced through his attorney that he was pleading guilty to one count of insider trading. According to his lawyer, Minkow had bought his Lennar options using \"nonpublic information.\" The plea, which is separate from the civil suit, came a month after Minkow learned he was the subject of a criminal investigation. Minkow claimed not to know at the time that he was breaking the law. The SEC had already been probing Minkow's trading practices. On the same day, Minkow resigned as senior pastor of Community Bible Church, saying in a letter to his flock that since he was no longer \"above reproach,\" he felt that he was \"no longer qualified to be a pastor.\" Six weeks earlier, $50,000 in cash and checks was stolen from the church during a burglary. Though unsolved, it was noted as suspicious due to Minkow's admitted history of staging burglaries to collect insurance money.\n\nThe nature of the \"nonpublic information\" became clear a week later, when federal prosecutors in Miami filed a criminal information charging Minkow with one count of conspiracy to commit securities fraud. Prosecutors charged that Minkow and Marsch (listed as an unindicted co-conspirator in the complaint) conspired to extort money from Lennar by driving down its stock. The complaint also revealed that Minkow had sent his allegations to the FBI, SEC and IRS, and that the three agencies found his claims credible enough to open a formal criminal investigation into Lennar's practices. Minkow then used confidential knowledge of that investigation to short Lennar stock, even though he knew he was barred from doing so. Minkow opted to plead guilty to the conspiracy charge rather than face charges of securities fraud and market manipulation, which could have sent him to prison for life.\n\nOn March 30, 2011, Minkow pleaded guilty before Judge Patricia A. Seitz. Minkow's attorney, Alvin Entin, admitted that his client had acted recklessly, but had been \"deluded and taken advantage of\" by Marsch. He faced a maximum of five years in prison, as much as $350,000 in fines and penalties and $500 million in restitution. However, he has agreed to cooperate with the government in its probe of Marsch.\n\nThe \"Los Angeles Times\" obtained a copy of the plea agreement, in which Minkow admitted to issuing his FDI report on Lennar at Marsch's behest. According to the agreement, Marsch offered to have Minkow retract his report if Lennar paid him in cash and stock. It also said that Minkow's report triggered a bear raid which temporarily reduced the market capitalization of Lennar by $583 million. Minkow faced a minimum of 30 years in prison had the case gone to trial.\n\nIn a pre-sentencing evaluation performed on May 10, 2011, Minkow was diagnosed by a Dr. Michael Brannon as having antisocial personality disorder, narcissistic personality disorder, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, anxiety disorder, opioid dependence, anabolic steroid abuse, and migraine headaches.\n\nOn June 16, Freeman ordered Minkow to pay Lennar $584 million in damages—roughly the amount the company lost as a result of the bear raid. Freeman's ruling stated that Minkow and Marsch had entered into a conspiracy to wreck Lennar's stock in November 2008. With interest, the bill could easily approach a billion dollars—far more than he stole in the ZZZZ Best scam.\n\nOn July 6, it emerged that officials with Community Bible Church had accused Minkow of running the Fraud Discovery Institute with church funds, applying for credit cards in the names of church members and leading his flock into bad investments. Church officials had made the claims as part of a confidential pre-sentencing report. When Minkow's attorney, Alvin Entin, got word of the letter, he asked for and was granted two weeks to review the allegations and respond to them. This pushed Minkow's sentencing back to July 21. This was the second time Minkow's sentencing had been postponed; it was originally slated for June 16 but was postponed to July 6.\n\nOn July 21, Seitz sentenced Minkow to five years in prison. In imposing the sentence, Seitz said that Minkow had \"no moral compass that says 'Stop.'\" Seitz also ordered him to pay Lennar $583.5 million in restitution—an amount that had been imposed a month earlier in the civil case.\nSeitz had recommended that Minkow serve his sentence at Federal Prison Camp, Montgomery in Montgomery, Alabama. However, on September 20, he was ordered to begin his sentence at Federal Medical Center, Lexington in Lexington, Kentucky.\n\nAt sentencing and in interviews with media, Minkow claimed that he committed securities fraud because he had become addicted to his migraine headache medication Oxycontin.\n\nOn June 14, 2011; KGTV in San Diego interviewed several members of Minkow's former church, who said Minkow swindled them. One woman said Minkow asked her for $300,000, purportedly to help finance a movie about his redemption.\n\nOn January 22, 2014, Minkow pleaded guilty to one count each of conspiracy to commit bank fraud, wire fraud, mail fraud and to defraud the federal government. He admitted to embezzling over $3 million in donations to Community Bible Church from 2001 to 2011. He opened unauthorized bank accounts purportedly on the church's behalf, forged signatures on church checks, diverted money from legitimate church accounts for his personal use, and charged unauthorized personal expenses on church credit cards. He also concealed $890,000 of income and $250,000 in taxes from the IRS. Among his victims were a widower who gave $75,000 to fund a supposed hospital in Sudan to honor his wife after she died of cancer, and a woman who gave Minkow $300,000 that would have otherwise gone to help raise her teenage granddaughter.\n\nOn April 28, 2014, Judge Michael M. Anello sentenced Minkow to five years in prison, the maximum possible sentence under his plea bargain. It is to be served after Minkow completes his sentence for securities fraud. While Minkow's attorneys asked for a sentence of 41 months, Anello felt he had to impose the maximum for what he called a \"despicable, inexcusable crime.\" On June 2, Minkow reached an agreement with federal prosecutors that called for him to pay $3.4 million in restitution. This will potentially be a ruinous amount for Minkow, on top of the restitution he still owes Lennar, Union Bank and the ZZZZ Best victims. Earlier, he said that the $26 million restitution for the ZZZZ Best scam alone was large enough that he would be writing restitution checks to the ZZZZ Best victims for the rest of his life. As a result of his latest sentence, Minkow's earliest possible release date is now June 6, 2019.\n\nPrior to his 2011 conviction, production began on a film detailing Barry Minkow's life and redemption. The film featuring Mark Hamill, Justin Baldoni, Talia Shire, and Ving Rhames was partially funded by donations Minkow solicited from his congregation. Minkow insisted on playing the middle aged version of himself in the film. Following his arrest the film's release was cancelled and work began on a new ending. The film - retitled \"Con Man\" from the original title \"Minkow\" - was eventually released in March 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4012746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4012746", "title": "Bhanumathi Ramakrishna", "text": "Bhanumathi Ramakrishna\n\nBhanumathi Ramakrishna (7 September 1925 – 24 December 2005) was a multilingual Indian film actress, director, music director, singer, producer, book writer and songwriter. Widely known as the first female super star of Telugu cinema and South Indian film Industry, she is also known for her works in Tamil cinema. She was awarded the Padma Bhushan in 2003 for her contribution in Indian cinema. She was honored among \"women in cinema\" at the 30th International Film Festival of India.\n\nShe was the third child to Saraswatamma and Bommaraju Venkata Subbaiah, in Doddavaram village of Prakasam district, near Ongole, Andhra Pradesh. She grew up watching her father perform in various stage shows. Her father, Venkata Subbiah, was a lover of classical music and trained her in music from an early age.\n\nBhanumathi entered the film industry in 1939, and acted in over 200 films in Telugu and Tamil. She was also called as Ashtavadhani by the film industry people as she was a writer, actor, director, producer, singer, music director, editor and studio owner. She also had a good knowledge of astrology and philosophy.\nShe made her debut in Telugu cinema in 1939 as Kalindi (a 13 years old girl who is forced to marry an old man and ended her life by committing suicide) in \"Vara Vikrayam\" (Telugu), directed by C. Pullaiah. She had acted in \"Malathi Madhavam\", \"Dharma Patni\" and \"Bhaktimala\". Her first popular film was \"Krishna Prema\".\nHer next popular film was \"Swargaseema\", a milestone film in her career. In Swargaseema, she played the role of a theater artist with negative shades who is after a married person for her personal benefits. Oho Pavurama song (sung by her) in Swargaseema became a super hit and she was showered with offers.\nShe later acted in many memorable movies like \"Chakrapani\", \"Laila Majnu\", \"Vipranarayana\", \"Malliswari\", \"Batasari\" and \"Anthastulu\". Her first film in Tamil was Ratnakumar in the year 1949 along with the famous hero of those day P. U. Chinnappa. This film was directed by Krishnan-Panju. In 1953, she made her directorial debut with \"Chandirani\" (made simultaneously in Tamil, Telugu and Hindi). Her last film was made in 1998, entitled \"Pelli Kanuka\". C. N. Annadurai gave her a title \"Nadippukku Ilakkanam\" () (Grammar for acting) that suits her aptly. She was revered by almost all the actors she had worked with like N.T.Rama Rao, Sivaji Ganesan, M. G. Ramachandran, Akkineni Nageswara Rao, Nagarjuna, Balakrishna, ChiranJeevi, Pawan Kalyan, Venkatesh for her bold and prolific versatility. One of her memorable movie in Tamil was \"Annai\", in the year 1962 directed by Krishnan-Panju, where her acting was appreciated by all and also got the National Award for the film and for also performances in movies Anthasthulu and Palnati Yudham (1964) she received National Awards (Rashtrapati Award). She is the last recipient of Rashtrapati Award.\n\nDue to her rift with Aluri Chakrapani, she left her role in Missamma movie (Initially Bhanumathi was shot for some scenes in the movie befote being replaced by savitri ) but after the release of the movie she watched and commented that \"she lost a wonderful role but industry gained a talented actress like savitri\" which showed her sportiveness and encouragement towards new actors.\n\nDue to clash with Aluri Chakrapani, she produced a satirical movie on him titled Chakrapani which was a huge hit and became a classic in Tollywood for this movie she also worked as Music Director.\n\nFor the movie Anthasthulu (1964), VB Rajendra Prasad had approached Bhanumathi for the role of Akkineni Nageswara Rao’s sister. She liked the subject and agreed to do the film immediately. The crew booked a room in \"Ritz-Carlton\" in Hyderabad and she didn’t want to waste money, so she offered to stay at Sarathi Studios, which had an open area and snakes. The next morning she woke up with her nails bitten by rats. The director decided to cancel the shoot, VB Rajendra Prasad rushed to see Bhanumathi applying iodine casually on the nails and asking when she could start work. While continuing with the shooting, she said, \"If you cancel shoot for small things how will I be a Bhanumathi (which means ‘shining like the sun’ in Sanskrit).\"\n\nIndia's First Vice-President Sarvepalli RadhaKrishnan was a fan of her work. Telugu cinema Veterans like Jamuna, Savitri and so many actresses cited her as an inspiration for entering into movies. she is widely recalled by her close associates as 'Epitome of Self-Respect and Versatility'. She is the only Female Film Studio owner in our country. She is called as Ashtavadhani by Tamil people. After seeing her performance in Ragoon Radha film C.N.Annadurai honoured her with title \"Nadippukku llakkanam\".\n\nIn later years, she continued to act in pivotal roles in many hit movies like Tatamma Kala, Mangammagari Manavadu, Gadasari Atta sogasari Kodallu, Muddula Manavaralu, Bamma Maata bangaru Baata, Peddarikam and Pelli kanuka.\n\nIn Malliswari, Chakrapani, Chandirani, Vipranarayana she played romantic, fun loving and playful characters. In movies like Tatamma Kala, Batasari, Chintamani, Annai and Mangammagari Manavadu she played different type of roles and received accolades and movies like Swargaseema, Antastulu, Palnati Yuddham and Peddarikam she played strong minded lady character roles with negative shades and done justice to the role proved that she was an accomplished actress who can easily portray both positive and negative roles with equal magnitude. She is first south Indian actress to receive Padma Awards\n\nApart from being an exceptional actress, she was also a very talented musician. She is one of the fine actresses of Telugu film industry. She was adept in both Carnatic and Hindustani music. She gave voice to her songs despite it being the norm to use playback singers for actors. Some of her songs are still popular like \"Pilichina biguvatara\", \"Kila Kila Navvulu\", \"Oh Pavurama\", \"Preme Nerama\" in Telugu and \"Azhagaana Ponn Naan\", \"Vaarai Inbam Thaaraai\", \"Nilaa Nilaa Odi Vaa\", \"Thalai Vaari Poochoodi Unnai\", \"Kannile Iruppathenna\" and \"Annai Enbadhu Neethaanaa\" in Tamil. She also provided music to a lot of her films.\n\nDuring her later years, she served on various movie related organizations. She was a Member of State Film Awards Committee for two years. She was also a Visiting Professor at the Film Institute for one year. She was Member of Children Film Society for 5 years, from 1965 to 1970.\n\nIn India, she was the first and the only woman to have owned a film studio, first actress to act in a dual role and the first woman to have directed a movie simultaneously in three languages.\n\nOn occasion of World Women's day, Sakshi Sunday magazine listed the most successful women from every industry and she was listed in the one for those from the movie industry. It was also added that the present highly successful heroines could not reach the heights Bhanumathi reached and that it is an impossible task for anyone to reach her level of success.\n\nBhanumati was also a talented writer with a number of short stories to her credit. Her autobiography \"Nalo Nenu\" was published in Telugu and later, released in English as Musings. Andhra Pradesh Sahitya Academy awarded her as the best short story writer for her popular short stories \"Attagari Kathalu\". She was a Member of Lalit Kala Academy for 5 years, and Sahitya Academy, Andhra Pradesh for 10 years. She served as Director and Principal of the Tamil Nadu Government Music College,\n\nShe was an eminent social worker who was closely associated with a number of Social Service Organizations. She was the founder member and treasurer of Madras branch of Altrusa International Inc., Chicago for lifelong starting from 1963. She was a life member of the 'Red Cross Society'. She established an educational institution named as \"Dr. Bhanumathi Ramakrishna Matriculation School\" at Saligramam, Chennai providing free education to the poor.\n\nDuring the shooting of the film \"Krishna Prema\", she met P. S. Ramakrishna Rao, an assistant director for that film. He was a film producer, director and editor of Telugu and Tamil Films. The couple later married on 8 August 1943 and later launched a popular production company, Bharani Pictures on their son's name. She died at the age of 80 years in Chennai.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThis is partial list of her films.\nBhanumati gave her voice for herself and many actors to sing many songs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2683634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2683634", "title": "Bozo language", "text": "Bozo language\n\nBozo, or Boso, meaning \"house of straw\", is a Mande language spoken by the Bozo people, the principal fishing people of the Inner Niger Delta in Mali. According to the 2000 census, the Bozo people number about 132,100. The Bozo dialect cluster is often considered to be one language, but there is quite a bit of diversity. \"Ethnologue\" recognises four languages on the basis of requirements for literacy materials. Bozo is part of the northwestern branch of the Mande languages; the closest linguistic relative is Soninke, a major language spoken in the northwestern section of southern Mali, in eastern Senegal, and in southern Mauritania. The Bozo often speak one or more regional languages such as Bamana, Maasina Fulfulde, or Western Songhay. The language is tonal, with three lexical tones.\n\nThe Bozo cluster is divided into the following varieties:\n\nHainyaho, spoken by the Hain (sg. Xan), is the most western dialect, spoken in two spots along the Niger. It is most closely related to Tigemaxo, its eastern neighbour which is spoken around Diafarabé. The central and most widely spoken Bozo language is Sorogama, which actually consists of four dialects, Pondori (south of Mopti), Kotya, Korondugu (north of Mopti) and Debo (around Lake Debo). Tièma Cièwè is the northeastern most of the Bozo cluster, spoken in the vicinity of Lake Debo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52356000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52356000", "title": "Cannabis in Hungary", "text": "Cannabis in Hungary\n\nCannabis in Hungary is illegal. There is no distinction in Hungarian law between illicit drugs according to dangers. Heroin use has the same legal consequences as cannabis use. Hungarian law prohibits the distribution, and any use (including medical use). However the Penal code distinguishes the punishment between sale and personal use. 283. § (1) paragraph (a) states that \"One cannot be punished for drug misuse; if a small, personal amount is produced, acquired, or in possession...\" and continues to state that \"... provided that before final verdict is determined a verification is provided that continuous 6-month therapy has taken place\" The law determines that a \"personal quantity\" is defined as 1 gram of active substance (i.e. THC), therefore this equates to 12–100 grams of marijuana if calculated that marijuana contains 1–8% THC per unit mass. Possession of larger amounts can lead to a 5–10-year prison sentence.\n"}
{"id": "3989628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3989628", "title": "Chechen mafia", "text": "Chechen mafia\n\nThe Chechen mafia (, \"Noxçiyn mafi\"; ) is one of the largest ethnic organized crime groups operating in the former Soviet Union next to established Russian mafia groups.\n\nWhile most Slavic and Caucasian gangsters in the Soviet era followed the thieves in law subculture, Chechens largely resisted this, instead preferring to use the tribal structure of the \"teip\" as well as the concept of an \"abrek\", the outlaw-hero.\n\nThe Moscow branch of the Chechen mafia, also known as the \"Obschina\" or \"community\", was founded by gangster Nikolay Suleimanov during the 1980s. Suliemanov operated a second-hand car business and made the bulk of his profits through tax evasion. The group later moved into extortion as capitalism penetrated the Soviet economy, and at this point Khozh-Ahmed Noukhayev, at the time a university student and part of an underground student movement dedicated to Chechen independence, was brought in as an enforcer. The more ideological Noukhayev imposed an additional condition on businesses under his \"protection\", which was that they must invite a Chechen into their workforce. Facilitating Chechen migration into Moscow would mean his organisation became a formidable force in the underworld. Boris Berezovsky was one of the businessmen associated with the Chechens during this period.\n\nThe Chechen reputation for violence was formidable, and before long they became the dominant crime group in Moscow. This brought them into conflict with the Slavic gangs, including the Solntsevskaya bratva and the Orekhovskaya gang, who formed an alliance to oust the Chechens from the city. They were supported by the FSB, who were concerned at the growing links between organised crime and the Chechen separatist movement. \n\nKhozh-Ahmed Noukhayev claimed that he started racketeering as a student to help raise funds for the Chechen nationalist cause. Indeed, over the course of his activities, Noukhayev became acquainted with Dzhokhar Dudayev, who recognised his important role in Moscow's Chechen community and took him on as an unofficial aide, before helping him escape from prison in 1991. Noukhayev played a prominent role in the lead-up to the First Chechen War, participating in last-minute negotiations with the Russian government. He later fought in and was wounded in the Battle of Grozny. After the war, Noukhayev continued to play a key role in Chechen politics and set up a holding company, the Caucasian Common Market, which aimed to bring prosperity to Chechnya by building an oil pipeline between Europe and Azerbaijan. But the Second Chechen War ended this initiative.\n\nIn the chaos of war-torn Chechnya, many of the insurgent forces turned to criminality in order to raise funds. Kidnapping became a key business for both rebels and local bandits, including Arbi Barayev's Special Purpose Islamic Regiment. In one particularly notorious case, four British engineers were abducted and beheaded. Oil theft and smuggling also became a major source of income. During its brief period of independence, Chechnya quickly fell into anarchy, becoming a major hub for arms trafficking (with a gun market in central Grozny), mobsters using local banks to launder profits from criminal activities, and rival warlords, armed gangs, and Islamist terrorists all fighting each other for control. It was this atmosphere of lawlessness that exacerbated tensions with Russia and helped provide justification for the Second Chechen War.\n\nUnder the rule of Ramzan Kadyrov, the criminalisation of Chechnya has taken a somewhat different turn to the wartime chaos that preceded it. Government officials have been accused of embezzling billions in state funds from Moscow, turning Chechnya into something of a financial \"black hole\", as well as demanding kickbacks for construction projects. The Kadyrovtsy are also believed to be responsible for a number of murders and attempted murders, some of them political as in the case of the Yamadayev brothers, and some business-related, such as the attempted hit on banker German Gorbuntsov in London in 2012.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21752070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21752070", "title": "Chinese people in Serbia", "text": "Chinese people in Serbia\n\nThe number of Chinese people in Serbia according to 2011 census is 1,373. The community resides mainly in Serbia's capital, Belgrade. Most have their origin in two provinces south of the Shanghai region. None of the Chinese have Serbian citizenship.\nThe Chinese immigration to Serbia was prompted after former Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic and his wife Mira Markovic visited China in 1997. They were 30 people in August 1998. There was a rumor that Milosevic imported over 50,000 Chinese people and gave them Yugoslav passports so that they could vote for him in elections. Other rumors say that the Chinese arrived here in order to take language courses. The newspaper, Vecernje Novosti, says one part of town in particular has had a complete Chinese village transplanted into it: \"The entire population of the Chinese village of Jincun, Kaihua County in Zhejiang province has moved to Belgrade, specifically to Blok 70 where they have businesses in the local center (\"Kineski centar\", \"Chinese center\") in the suburb of Novi Beograd.\"\n\nThe Chinese send their children to schools in China when they have reached age for primary school, to learn the Chinese language like natives, something that is important for the community.\n\nBesides Belgrade (Blok 70), there is also a sizable Chinese community in the second largest Serbian city Novi Sad, which has a Chinese trade center, as well as many Chinese shops and restaurants.\n\nOnly 223 Chinese have working permits, meaning that Belgrade's 4,000-5,000 Chinese workers profit from Underground economy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49017482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49017482", "title": "Comb Sister", "text": "Comb Sister\n\nComb Sister is a kind of Chinese traditional women culture, which refers to a culture that some women set up their hairstyle like married women with determination to stay single all their life. Those women are called the Net Female after they die.\n\nIn the past, unmarried women who were from the Pearl River delta like Guangzhou, Heyuan cities had hairstyle of long braids. And when they got married,their mother would help them to rolled their braids into a ball because that was married women's hairstyle. However, Comb female would change their hairstyle into a bun on their own to show their determination that they would never get married until they died.\n\nThe origin of the Comb Sister was the result of rigid feudal system in ancient China. At that time, many women could not stand being abused by their husbands, therefore, they refused to get married and decided to stay with partners to support each other till they died. The custom of the Comb Sister had kept more than 300 years under the oppression of the feudal system, and it was up to world in mid and late Ming dynasty since the rise of the silk industry provided women with work opportunities. In the 1930s, along with improvement of women's social status and the impact of war, Comb Sister gradually fade away.\n\nIn the very beginning, being a comb sister had its special ceremony. Firstly, some villagers with high reputation would represent the whole village to choose the \"Lucky Day and Lucky Time\"(great privilege)to hold the ceremony. And as the lucky time comes, several elder women would host the \"Comb\" ceremony, there the women who wanted to become comb sisters will change their hairstyle with a promise that they would never get married. And in the same day, the whole village would set tables to announce the decision to their friends and the public.\n\nUntil the 1930s, with the decline of silk industry in the Pearl River Delta, young women heard that they could get the higher income if they worked in South Asia,so they called their friends to go there for earning a living. In order to earn more money,many women who have worked in South Asia for many years have never talked about the marriage.\n\nEver since The revolution of 1911 and the establishment of the Republic of China, the feudal system and customs broke down, and the custom of comb sister had declined. In the early years of the Republic of China, the whole China's silk industry collapsed, which resulted in that the comb female cannot earn their livings, therefore, some of them chose to go to Hong Kong as house maids. Today's Hong Kong Tsat Tsz Mui Road also originated from those comb sister.\n\nOnce women determined to change their hairstyle to become comb sisters,they had no choice to turn back. What was more, if they broke their promise, they would be tortured by their villagers such as being loaded in to a pig cage and being drown in to the river. However, even they died, it was still not unacceptable for their parents to bury them.\n\nAccording to the old custom, comb sisters were not allowed to die in their home or other relatives' homes. They could only be buried out of their village. Worse still, only other comb sisters could visit the grave, hence, some of them become their friends' grave keepers, and that was the custom we call \"Grave Keeping \".\n\nBingyu Museum, located in Jun'an, Shunde. It is a two-story building with left, middle and right three underground blocks. In a middle block people set a statue of Avalokitesvara and in the left and right blocks there are some tablets of dead comb sisters . Besides, the second floor is the room where comb sisters live. The whole building takes about five hundred square meters and covers an area of nearly two acres. Bingyu Museum was officially opened to the public on 25 December 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "3216845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3216845", "title": "Custer Observatory", "text": "Custer Observatory\n\nCuster Observatory is an astronomical observatory owned and operated by Custer Institute.\nLocated in Southold, New York (US), facing Peconic Bay and Shelter Island, Custer's location boasts some of the darkest skies on Long Island.\n\nLong Island's oldest public observatory, Custer Institute was founded in 1927 by Charles Wesley Elmer (co-founder of the Perkin-Elmer Optical Company), along with a group of fellow amateur-astronomers. The name was adopted to honor the hospitality of Mrs. Elmer, the Grand Niece of General George Armstrong Custer.\nIn 1942, the Custer Institute was incorporated as a non-profit educational corporation in the State of New York.\n\nIn 1938, the group purchased the land the institute presently occupies and initial construction was completed in the spring of 1939. The 100-seat lecture hall was added in 1945. In 1947, through donations by Charles Elmer and Mr. Polk, the 3-story tower/library and observatory dome were built.\nIn 1954, Charles Elmer died; that same year, the Institute added the shed, which houses three sliding roof observatories.\nOver the years, Custer has acquired a large collection of telescopes of all sizes and descriptions. Most recently, 10\" Zerochromat refracting telescope and is the largest of its type in the United States. This is in the main observatory dome.\"\n\nOur 10” refracting telescope was manufactured in England by Zerochromat Telescopes. Designed by award-wining optician Peter Wise, the telescope’s unique dialyte lenses make it apochromatic, providing superior views of solar system and deep space objects. The folded light path construction uses mirrors to make the telescope a manageable size (still more than 6’ long), allowing the long f/12 focal length telescope to fit in our dome.\n\nThe telescope is attached to a computer-controlled Fornax 152 equatorial mount, permitting easy aiming and object tracking. The entire assembly can be raised/lowered on the Pier-Tech pier to accommodate most users’ heights, for comfortable viewing. Custer’s Zerochromat telescope is the largest of its type in the United States.\"\n\nPreviously, the dome was home to a 25-inch (f/5) Obsession Newtonian reflector. In order to bring the eyepiece of this telescope to a level that does not require observers to climb a high ladder, the optics on this telescope were modified solely by Custer’s own Justine Haupt, an engineer at Brookhaven National Lab. Justine is currently involved in working on the camera for the LSST.\n\nThe Custer Library contains a wealth of Astronomy and Science books dating from the 19th century to the present. It also houses the Institute's videotape collection and 35mm astronomical slide collection. It contains \"National Geographic\", \"Sky & Telescope\", \"Astronomy\", and \"Scientific American\" magazines dating back numerous decades. Membership to the Custer Institute grants access to their library.\n\nThe Custer Institute Museum (in place prior to the dome renovation but currently unavailable) contains the following in its collection:\n\n\nCuster has a large collection of telescopes of all sizes and description. Among them are:\n\nGenerally the Custer Institute is open every Saturday evening, from dusk until midnight. Custer Observatory welcomes the general public to guided tours of the heavens—weather permitting. The Custer Institute also allows its lecture hall to be used for lectures, in-service courses for educators, concerts, theatrical performances, and other events.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21405", "title": "Demographics of the Northern Mariana Islands", "text": "Demographics of the Northern Mariana Islands\n\nThis article is about the demographic features of the population of the Northern Mariana Islands, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.\n\nThe following demographic statistics are from the CIA World Factbook \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAccording to the Pew Research Center, 2010:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "909320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=909320", "title": "Dirigisme", "text": "Dirigisme\n\nDirigisme or dirigism () is an economic doctrine in which the state plays a strong directive role, as opposed to a merely regulatory role, over a capitalist market economy. As an economic doctrine, dirigisme is the counterpart to laissez-faire, stressing a positive role for state intervention in curbing productive inefficiencies and market failures. Dirigiste policies often include indicative planning, state-directed investment, and the use of market instruments (taxes and subsidies).\n\nThe term emerged in the post-war era to describe the economic policies of France, which included substantial state-directed investment, the use of indicative economic planning to supplement the market mechanism, and the establishment of state enterprises in strategic domestic sectors. It resulted in an unprecedented economic and demographic growth, leading to the coinage of the term \"Trente Glorieuses\" (\"Thirty Glorious [years]\").\n\nThe term has subsequently been used to classify other economies that pursued similar policies, most notably the East Asian tiger economies, and more recently the economy of the People's Republic of China. A related concept is state capitalism.\n\nMost modern economies can be characterized as \"dirigiste\" to some degree – for instance, the state may exercise directive action by performing or subsidizing research and development of new technologies, through government procurement (especially military) or through state-run research institutes.\n\nBefore the Second World War, France had a relatively fragmented capitalist economic system. The many small companies, often family-owned, were often not dynamic and efficient in comparison to the large industrial groups in Germany or the United States. The Second World War laid waste to France. Railroads and industries were destroyed by aerial bombardment and sabotage; industries were seized by Nazi Germany; in the immediate postwar years loomed the spectre of long years of rationing (such as the one enforced in the United Kingdom). Some sections of the French business and political world lost authority after collaborating with the German occupiers.\n\nPost-war French governments, from whichever political side, generally sought rational, efficient economic development, with the long-term goal of matching the highly developed and technologically advanced economy of the United States. The development of French dirigisme coincided with the development of meritocratic technocracy: the École Nationale d'Administration supplied the state with high-level administrators, while leadership positions in industry were staffed with Corps of Mines state engineers and other personnel trained at the École Polytechnique.\n\nDuring the 1945–1975 period, France experienced unprecedented economic growth (5.1% on average) and a demographic boom, leading to the coinage of the term \"Trente Glorieuses\" (\"Thirty Glorious [years]\").\n\nDirigisme flourished under the centre-right governments of Charles de Gaulle and Georges Pompidou. In those times, the policy was viewed as a middle way between the American policy of little state involvement and the Soviet policy of total state control. In 1981, Socialist president François Mitterrand was elected, promising greater state enterprise in the economy; his government soon nationalised industries and banks. However, in 1983 the initial bad economic results forced the government to renounce dirigisme and start the era of \"rigueur\" (\"rigour\"). Dirigisme has remained out of favour with subsequent governments, though some of its traits remain.\n\nThe main French tool under dirigisme was indicative planning through plans designed by the \"Commissariat général du plan\" (\"Commission for the Plan\"). Indicative planning used various incentives to induce public and private actors to behave in an optimal fashion, with the plan serving as a general guideline for optimal investment. During this period France never ceased to be a capitalist economy directed by the accumulation of capital, profit-maximizing enterprise and market-based allocation of producer goods.\n\nIn contrast to Soviet-type central planning practiced in the former Soviet bloc, where economic planning substituted market allocation and operated the factors of production according to a binding plan, the French state never owned more than a minority of industry and did not seek to replace markets with planning. The idea of dirigisme is to complement and improve the efficiency of the market through indirect planning intended to provide better information to market participants. This concept is held in contrast to a planned economy, which aims to replace market-based allocation of production and investment with a binding plan of production expressed in units of physical quantities.\n\nBecause French industry prior to the Second World War was weak due to fragmentation, the French government encouraged mergers and the formation of \"national champions\": large industry groups backed by the state.\n\nTwo areas where the French government sought greater control were in infrastructure and the transportation system. The French government owned the national railway company SNCF, the national electricity utility EDF, the national natural gas utility GDF, the national airline Air France; phone and postal services were operated as the PTT administration. The government chose to devolve the construction of most autoroutes (freeways) to semi-private companies rather than to administer them itself. Other areas where the French government directly intervened were defense, nuclear and aerospace industries (Aérospatiale).\n\nThis development was marked by \"volontarisme\", the belief that difficulties (e.g. postwar devastation, lack of natural resources) could be overcome through willpower and ingenuity. For instance, following the 1973 energy crisis, the saying \"In France we don't have oil, but we have ideas\" was coined. Volontarisme emphasized modernization, resulting in a variety of ambitious state plans. Examples of this trend include the extensive use of nuclear energy (close to 80% of French electrical consumption), the Minitel, an early online system for the masses, and the TGV, a high-speed rail network.\n\nEconomic dirigisme has been described as an inherent aspect of fascist economies by Hungarian author, Iván T. Berend in his book \"An Economic History of Twentieth-Century Europe\". However, the Fascist systems created by Benito Mussolini (Italy), António Salazar (Portugal), Francisco Franco (Spain) and Adolf Hitler (Germany) are a varied mix of elements from numerous philosophies, including: nationalism, authoritarianism, militarism, corporatism, collectivism, totalitarianism, and anti-communism.\n\nDirigisme has been brought up as a politico-economic scheme at odds with \"laissez-faire\" capitalism in the context of French overseas holdings. Countries such as Lebanon and Syria have been influenced by this motif to varying degrees throughout the post-colonial period.\n\nThe economies of the East Asian tigers are sometimes characterised as being \"dirigiste\" due to the strong role played by the state in development planning and guiding investment.. \nDirigisme is also seen in India. The state has complete control and ownership of railways; majority control and stake in banking, insurance, electricity, and oil and gas industries; and has substantial control over telecommunication, port and shipping industries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "340760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=340760", "title": "Discussion group", "text": "Discussion group\n\nA \"discussion group\" is a group of individuals with similar interest who gather either formally or informally to bring up ideas, solve problems or give comments. The major approaches are \"in person\", via \"conference call\" or \"website\". People respond comments and post forum in established mailing list, news group or IRC. Other group members could choose to respond by posting text or image.\n\nDiscussion group was evolved from USENET which is traced back to early 80's. Two computer scientists Jim Ellis and Tom Truscott founded the idea of setting a system of rules to produce \"articles\", and then send back to their parallel news group. Fundamentally, the form of discussion group was generated on the concept of USENET, which emphasised ways of communication via email and web forums. Gradually, USENET had developed to be a system of channels which provide notifications and \"articles\" to meet general public's needs. Nowadays, World Wide Web gradually takes on the major role of supporting and extending platforms for discussion group on the Internet by setting up various web servers.\n\nGoogle Group has been built to be one of the major online discussion groups with a wide range of worldwide frequent users. The following subsections contain information about three popular groups used by the public today:\n\nFacebook group simplifies processes and protects privacy of users when they interact with people. The following guidelines are some general instructions about how to operate groups on Facebook: \n\nWhatsapp group:\nWhatsapp, is a mobile SMS and messaging app, it features the function of group discussion as well. Users set group chats to boost the convenience of a proper group discussion. With shared characteristics to Facebook group, the instructions are comparatively similar. Common actions for administrators include: creating group, renaming title, blocking members, deleting irrelevant information through the management.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054789", "title": "Fengu people", "text": "Fengu people\n\nThe Fengu people (in the Xhosa language \"Mfengu\" and plural \"amafengu\") are a Bantu people, originally closely related to the Zulu people, but now often considered to have assimilated to the Xhosa people whose language they now speak. Historically they achieved considerable renown for their military ability in the frontier wars.\n\nThey were previously known as the \"Fingo\" people, and they gave their name to the district of Fingoland, the southwestern portion of Transkei, in the Eastern Cape of South Africa.\n\nThe name \"amaFengu\" translates as \"wanderers\" and the Fengu people – like the Bhaca, Bhele, Hlubi and Dlamini peoples – was formed from the tribes that were broken up and dispersed by Shaka and his Zulu armies in the Mfecane wars.\n\nMost of them fled westwards and settled amongst the Xhosa. After some years of oppression by the Gcaleka Xhosa (who called the Fengu people their \"dogs\") in the 1820s, they formed an alliance with the Cape government in 1835 and Sir Benjamin d'Urban invited 17 000 to settle on the banks of the Great Fish River in the region that later became known as the Ciskei.\nSome scholars, including Timothy Stapleton and Alan Webster, argue that the traditional narrative of the Fengu people as refugees of the Mfecane is in fact a lie constructed by colonial missionaries and administrators. They question the existence of the Fengu people as a distinct group prior to colonial contact, instead positing that the term was given, by the British, to a collection of Xhosa defectors, migrant laborers, and labor captives.\n\nThey subsequently became notable allies of the Cape Colony in the frontier wars against their former oppressors. In this capacity, they won several victories against their Xhosa enemies (particularly the Gcaleka Xhosa), and through shrewd and successful management of regional trade, formed a developed and materially successful nation. In addition, many bought farms and started businesses in the small towns that were springing up in that part of the Cape frontier.\n\nThe Fengu people did not take part in the great cattle-killing in 1857, which devastated the Xhosa people.\n\nWhile the Xhosa slaughtered their own cattle and burnt their crops, many of the Fengu people instead bought the Xhosa cattle at very low prices, only to resell them at a profit during the subsequent famine. They also were recorded as producing large excesses of grain at this time for their starving neighbours. The famine induced by the cattle-killing effectively brought much of the armed resistance in the eastern Cape to an end.\n\nOver a decade of relative peace and economic development, which peaked in the mid-1870s, was brought to an end by a series of devastating droughts across the Transkei, which began to place severe strain on intertribal relations. Their severity increased up until 1877, when the last major war that the Fengu people fought, the Ninth Frontier War, broke out after a bar fight between Fengu and Gcaleka guests, at a Fengu wedding. Many Fengu people were Cape citizens by this time, so the Cape Colony took a partisan view of the war, which brought it into conflict with the Gcaleka forces.\n\nThe Cape government appointed the Fengu Captain Bikitsha to co-lead the Cape's forces (composed primarily of Fengu, Thembu and Boer commandos) in the war. They inflicted a string of crushing defeats on the enemy and dispersed their armies in the space of only three weeks. The ingratitude of the British governor Sir Henry Bartle Frere, who promptly humiliated the Cape's Fengu allies by forcibly disarming them, caused the Fengu to begin to identify more with the Xhosa, partly also as a reaction to increasing persecution from the Colonial authorities.\n\nThe Fengu lived in the Bantustans of Transkei and Ciskei, established by the Apartheid government. Ciskei was the scene of political rivalry between the Rharhabe and the Fengu as a result of the apartheid policy of \"retribalisation\", which resulted in resentment toward the historically better educated, and relatively economically advantaged Fengu, and this rivalry culiminated in the election of Lennox Sebe, a Rharhabe, who replaced Fengu leader Chief Justice Thandathu Jongilizwe Mabandla in 1973, however Sebe subsequently abandoned his anti-Fengu rhetoric.\n\nChristianity played a major role in the survival of the endangered Fengu people after the Mfecane wars. After contact with the Gcaleka Xhosa, who were hostile towards them, the Fengu people found comfort in Rev. John Ayliff, the missionary at Butterworth who devoted himself to the tribe for the next 30 years. In 1835, Ayliff led 17 000 and 22 000 head of cattle to PeddieOn the 14 May 1835, the Fengu people gathered under an old milkwood tree in the Peddie district, in the presence of Rev. John Ayliff, and swore an oath to obey the Queen, to accept Christianity, and to educate their children. This agreement became known as the 'Fingo-Oath'. Soon after accepting Christianity, the Fengu became the first Bantu in South Africa to use ploughs, demonstrated to them by the missionaries, and also the first to plant wheat. A small group moved to Tsitsikamma and carried their Christian customs with them. The Fengu, who were most Wesleyans, soon moved to Grahamstown where they fought on the side of the British in the eighth frontier war of 1850 to 1853 and were rewarded with land in a freehold village known as Fingo in Grahamstown in 1855. The educated Fengu went as far as Port Elizabeth, where they worked at the harbour and established urban communities in Cape Town, where they also continued practising as Christians. Since the day the 'Fingo-Oath' was sworn, the 14 May has been celebrated as Fingo Emancipation Day and a ceremony held under the old milkwood tree where the oath was sworn.\n\nAfter the occupation of Matebeleland in 1893, the Ndebele took up arms in an effort to re-establish the Ndebele State in 1896. Cecil John Rhodes brought a group of Fengu fighters (who had fought on the side of the British) and were derogatively known as \"the Cape Boys\" in 1896. After the war, Rhodes tried further to 'neutralise' the 'war-like' Ndebele people by inviting more Fengu people into Southern Rhodesia. He promised the Fengus three reserves that each man would work for three months a year, and after 36 months of labour, each would be given land. More Fengu leaders moved to Southern Rhodesia as Wesleyan Methodists, Salvationists, Anglicans, Presbyterians and Lutherans. In 2000, the Mbembesi Fengu/Xhosa community celebrated their centenary in Zimbabwe. The Fengu in Zimbabwe, who are Xhosa speakers, are the subject of the first ever PHD thesis written in Xhosa by Dr Hleze Kunju titled IsiXhosa ulwimi lwabantu abangesosininzi eZimbabwe: Ukuphila nokulondolozwa kwaso (Xhosa as a Minority Language in Zimbabwe: Survival and Maintenance) \n\nFor much of the 19th and early 20th century, the Fengu were led by Captain Veldtman Bikitsha. Initially a constable who was of great service to the Cape in the 8th Frontier War, he was later promoted and served as a de facto military leader of the Cape's Fengu commandos.\n\nPrime Minister John Molteno, who held a very high opinion of Bikitsha, appointed him as a leader of the Cape forces (together with Chief Magistrate Charles Griffith) in the 9th Frontier War in 1877, where he swiftly won a string of brilliant victories against the Gcaleka. Throughout the 9th Frontier war, Bikitsha and his location were a focal point for the Gcaleka armies attacks and came under immense military pressure.\n\nHis military genius in the frontier wars earned him considerable renown and he was widely acknowledged leader in the Cape Colony. His courage was also frequently referred to. He famously once jumped onto a wounded and charging lion, holding it by the tail, overpowered it and killed it. He was invited to London in 1889, where Queen Victoria requested to meet him to thank him for his services. He reputedly told her \"We have never feared a white man, and we have never lifted our hand against any of your people.\"\n\nHe founded the Transkei General Council, and served as a juror and commissioner for the Cape Colony in later life\n\nAs Fengu history switched from military defense to political struggle, so the great Fengu politician and activist John Tengo Jabavu rose in prominence after Bikitsha's military leadership ended. \n\nJabavu edited the first newspapers to be written in the Xhosa and from 1876 he edited \"Isigidimi samaXhosa\" (\"The Xhosa Messenger\"). From 1884 he edited \"Imvo Zabantsundu\" (\"Black Opinion\"). He wrote on the threat of Afrikaner nationalism, equal rights for South Africa's black population, and in support of women's rights. \n\nThe rivalry between the Fengu and the Gcaleka Xhosa, which had previously broken out into war, declined during the era of Jabavu's leadership, as greater unity was encouraged. Nonetheless, some divisions remained. Jabavu's main political rival, Walter Rubusana, was Xhosa. Rubusana's rise in the 1890s was through the new Gcaleka-dominated South African Native National Congress and their newspaper \"Izwi Labantu\" (\"The Voice of the People\") which was financed by Cecil Rhodes. The rise of Xhosa institutions meant that Jabavu and the Fengu were no longer in a position to provide the only leadership in the Cape's Black community. \n\nOver the next few decades, divisions persisted between Jabavu's movement \"Imbumba\" (\"The Union\") and Rubusana's South African Native National Congress. However the rivalry was finally laid to rest and there was union under the newly named African National Congress. One of the early aims of this movement was finally to lay to rest \"the aberrations of the Xhosa-Fingo feud.\"\n\nBritish Kaffraria had been annexed to the Cape Colony in 1866. Barring the brief revolt in 1877 and 1878, when the Gcaleka turned upon their Fengu neighbours, the British annexation of land east of the Kei River proceeded fitfully, but generally unimpeded. In September 1879 this was followed by Idutywa Reserve and Fenguland, and Gcalekaland in 1885. It is assumed that the restructuring of these territories into the divisions of Butterworth, Idutywa, Centani, Nqamakwe, Tsomo and Willowvale dates from these times.\n\nOriginally farmers, the Fengu people had quickly built themselves schools, created and edited their own newspapers, and translated international literature into their language. The reason that the Fengu people were able to adapt so effectively to changing circumstances (like the coming of capitalism and urbanisation) was because they lacked a fixed tribal social-structure and hierarchy (having presumably lost it in their earlier flight from the Zulu). This state of social change and flexibility allowed them to quickly adjust to the European expansion, learn and adapt new techniques, and take advantage of the upheavals that followed. Other tribes were often suspicious of outside ideas and consequently resisted any change to meet the colonial threat. The Fengu had no paramount-chief as other tribes did, but the Cape Commander, Veldman Bikitsha, was a Fengu and held authority over the Fengu's military capacity.\n\nMany Fengu have also subsequently intermarried with other ethnic groups, particularly with the Xhosa and Zulu, while some still live in Zimbabwe.\n\nThe region that was later known as the Transkei was originally divided into territories known as the Idutywa Reserve, Fingoland and Galekaland (Gcalekaland). Fingoland lay the borderlands in the far south of the Transkei, just north of the Kei River.\n\nFollowing their annexation by the British however, they were restructured into the divisions of Butterworth, Tsomo and Ngqamakwe for Fingoland; Centani and Willowvale for Galekaland; and Idutywa for the Idutywa Reserve.\n\nToday virtually all the Fengu people have intermarried with other ethnic groups particularly with the Xhosa and Zulu. Many are now often considered – especially by outsiders – to be ethnically Xhosa and others Zulu, because of their common language and some similar customs. A considerable number have a mixed racial background, especially in and around the Cape provinces.\n\n"}
{"id": "34008087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34008087", "title": "Georgians in Norway", "text": "Georgians in Norway\n\nEthnic Georgians in Norway number around 150 and live in Oslo, Ålesund and Trondheim.\n\nThey belong to Georgian Orthodox Church.\n"}
{"id": "4243397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4243397", "title": "Gitanos", "text": "Gitanos\n\nThe Gypsies in Spain, generally known as gitanos (), belong to the Iberian Kale group, with smaller populations in Portugal (known as \"ciganos\") and in southern France. They tend to speak Caló, which basically encompasses a range of regional dialects of Spanish with numerous Romani loan words and mannerisms. Nevertheless, to varying degrees, they identify with Andalusian culture and music due to the large and culturally significant \"gitano\" population present in that region. Data on ethnicity is not collected in Spain, although the Government's statistical agency CIS estimated in 2007 that the number of Gitanos present in Spain is probably around one million.\n\nThe term \"gitano\" evolved from the word \"egiptano\" (\"Egyptian\"), the Old Spanish demonym for someone from \"Egipto\" (Egypt). \"Egiptano\" was the regular adjectival form for someone from Egypt, however, in Middle and Modern Spanish the irregular adjectival form \"egipcio\" supplanted \"egiptano\" to mean Egyptian, while \"gitano\" went on to refer specifically to Romanis in Spain.\n\nThe etymological meaning of the term \"gitano\", therefore, was originally \"Egyptian\".\n\nThe use of the Spanish word \"gitano\" to refer to Romanis in Spain evolved from \"egiptano\" in the same way that the English word \"Gypsy\" evolved from the term \"Egyptian\" to refer to Romanis. Both terms are due to some Romanis, upon their first arrivals to Europe in the 14th and 15th centuries, claiming to be Egyptians for a more favourable treatment by local Europeans, or being mistaken as Egyptians by local Europeans.\n\nWhile it is now known that Romanis are ultimately of northwestern Hindustani origin (an area today shared between India and Pakistan), many did enter Europe via a generations-long migration which included Egypt as one of their last stops before their arrival into Europe.\n\nIt is for this same reason that in the Albanian language variations of the Albanian term for \"Egyptian\" are still used to refer to a people which in English are known as Balkan Egyptians. This group of Romanis in Albania are likewise of northwestern Hindustani origin, and are not related to Egyptians proper.\n\n\"Gitano\" identity is particularly complex in Spain for a variety of reasons which are examined below. Nevertheless, it can be safely said that both from the perspective of \"gitano\" and non-\"gitano\" (\"payo\") Spaniards, individuals generally considered to belong to this ethnicity are those of full or near-full \"gitano\" descent and who also self-identify. A confusing element is the thorough hybridization of Andalusian and Roma culture (and some would say identity) at a popular level. This has occurred to the point where Spaniards from other regions of Spain can commonly mistake elements of one for the other. The clearest example of this is flamenco music and Sevillanas, art forms that are Andalusian rather than \"gitano\" in origin but, having been strongly marked by \"gitanos\" in interpretative style, is now commonly associated to this ethnicity by many Spaniards. The fact that the largest population of \"gitanos\" is concentrated in Southern Spain has even led to a confusion between \"gitano\" accents and those typical of Southern Spain even though many \"Kale\" populations in the northern half of Spain (such as Galicia) do not speak Andalusian Spanish.\n\nIndeed, the boundaries among \"gitano\" and non-\"gitano\" ethnicities are so blurred by intermarriage and common cultural traits in the south of the country, that self-identification is on occasion the only real marker for ethnicity. Few Spaniards are aware, for example, that Andalusian singer and \"gitano\" popular icon Lola Flores was, in fact, not of \"gitano\" ethnicity and did not consider herself as such. The mistake can be commonly attributed to her being a Flamenco singer of humble origin, with vaguely South Asian physical traits and a strong Andalusian accent, as well as to her having married into a Gitano family.\n\nThe term \"gitano\" has also acquired among many a negative socio-economic connotation referring to the lowest strata of society, sometimes linking it to crime and marginality and even being used as a term of abuse. In this, one can be Gitano \"by degree\" according to how much one fits into pre-conceived stereotypes or social stigmas.\n\nOn the other hand, the exaltation of Roma culture and heritage is a large element of wider Andalusian folklore and Spanish identity. Gitanos, rather than being considered a \"foreign\" or \"alien\" minority within the country are perceived as \"deep\" or \"real Spain\", as is expressed by the term \"España Cañí\" which means both \"Gypsy Spain\" and \"Traditional\" or \"Folkloric Spain\". This is largely the result of the period of romantic nationalism which followed the Spanish war of independence, during which the values of the Enlightenment arriving from Western Europe were rejected and Gypsies became the symbol of Spanish traditionalism, independence and racial consciousness.\n\nEvidently, all this results in a strong distinction between \"gitanos\" and Rom immigrants from Eastern Europe, who are commonly identified by the wider population according to their country of origin (normally Romanians or Bulgarians) rather than by their actual Rom ethnicity.\n\nHistorical records show that Spanish Gitanos arrived in Spain at the 15th-century through Europe concentrating in Andalusia and adopting the region's unique hybrid culture as their own, highlighting the Flamenco music whose origins dates to late-18th-century. At first they were well received and were even accorded official protection by many local authorities.\n\nThe Romani people originate from northwestern Hindustan, presumably from the northwestern Indian state of Rajasthan and the Punjab region shared between India and Pakistan.\n\nThe linguistic evidence has indisputably shown that roots of Romani language lie in the Indian subcontinent: the language has grammatical characteristics of Indic languages and shares with them a big part of the basic lexicon, for example, body parts, daily routines and numerals.\n\nMore exactly, Romani shares the basic lexicon with Hindi and Punjabi. It shares many phonetic features with Marwari, while its grammar is closest to Bengali. Linguistic evaluation carried out in the nineteenth century by Pott (1845) and Miklosich (1882–1888) showed that the Romani language is to be classed as a New Indo-Aryan language (NIA), not a Middle Indo-Aryan (MIA), establishing that the ancestors of the Romani could not have left the Indian subcontinent significantly earlier than AD 1000, then finally reaching Europe several hundred years later.\n\nGenetic findings in 2012 suggest the Romani originated in the northwestern region of the Indian subcontinent and migrated as a group.\nAccording to a genetic study in 2012, the ancestors of present scheduled tribes and scheduled caste populations of northern India, traditionally referred to collectively as the \"Ḍoma\", are the likely ancestral populations of modern \"Roma\" in Europe.\n\nHow and when the gypsies arrived in the Iberian Peninsula from Northern India is a question whose consensus is far from being reached. A popular theory, although without any documentation, claims they come from from North Africa, from where they would have crossed the Strait of Gibraltar to meet again in France with the northern migratory route. It would be the Tingitanis (in its deformed pronunciation, \"gitanos\", that is, from Tingis, today Tangier). Another, more consistent theroy, and well documented, is that they entered the Iberian Peninsula from France. Although, there is controversy of the date of the first arrival, since there is evidence of a safe conduct granted in Perpignan in 1415 by the infante Alfonso of Aragon to one Tomás, son of Bartolomé de Sanno, who is said to be \"Indie Majoris\". Or instead, could be the so-called Juan de Egipto Menor, who entered through France, who in 1425 Alfonso V granted him a letter of insurance, which is mostly accepted as the first gypsy to reach the peninsula.\n\nIn 1435 they were seen in Santiago de Compostela, Gitanos were recorded in Barcelona and Zaragoza by 1447, and in 1462 they were received with honors in Jaén. Years later, to the gitanos, the \"grecianos\", pilgrims who penetrated the Mediterranean shore in the 1480s, were added to them, probably because of the fall of Constantinople. Both of them continued to wander throughout the peninsula, being well received at least until 1493, year in which a group of \"gitanos\" arrived at Madrid, where the Council agreed to \"\"... give alms to the \"gitanos\" because at the request of the City passed ahead, ten reales, to avoid the damages that could be done by three hundred people who came ... \"\".\n\nIn those years safe conducts were granted to supposedly noble gypsy pilgrims. The follow-up of these safe-conducts throughout Spain has provided some data to historians according to Teresa San Román:\n\n\nIn 1492, gipsy auxiliaries helped the army of the Kingdom of Castile and León in the Reconquista in Granada ending the reign of muslims in Spain.\n\n\"Gitanos\" have a low and little politically committed role, with some particular exceptions, in Andalusian nationalism and identity, which is strongly based on a belief in the oriental basis of Andalusi heritage acted as a bridge between occidental-western and oriental-eastern Andalusian culture at a popular level. The father of such a movement, Blas Infante, in his book \"Orígenes de lo flamenco y secreto del cante jondo\", etymologically, went as far as alleging that the word \"flamenco\" derives from Andalusian Arabic \"fellah mengu\", supposedly meaning \"escapee peasant\". Infante believed that numerous Muslim Andalusians became Moriscos, who were obliged to convert, dispersed and eventually ordered to leave Spain stayed and mixed with the Romani newcomers instead of abandoning their land. These claims have been rejected by many historians and genetic research papers.\n\nFor about 300 years, Romanies were subject to a number of laws and policies designed to eliminate them from Spain as an identifiable group: Romani settlements were broken up and the residents dispersed; sometimes, Romanies were required to marry non-Roma; they were prohibited from using their language and rituals, and were excluded from public office and from guild membership. In 1749 A major effort to get rid of the gypsy population in Spain was carried out through a raid organized by the government. It arrested all gypsies (Romani) in the realm, and imprisoned them in jails, eventually releasing them due to the widespread discontent that the measure caused.\n\nDuring the Spanish Civil War, \"gitanos\" were not persecuted for their ethnicity by either side. Under Franco, Gitanos were often harassed or simply ignored, although their children were educated, sometimes forcibly, much as all Spaniards are nowadays. On the other hand, Andalusian and \"gitano\" culture was instrumentalized in the country's tourist promotion strategy which focused on the south to exalt the uniqueness of Spanish culture. However, the country's industrialization negatively affected \"gitanos\" as the migration of rural Spaniards to major cities led to the growth of shanty towns around urban areas with a consequent explosion in birth rates and a drastic fall in the quality of living and an abandonment of traditional professions. Traditional Gitano neighbourhoods such as Triana in Seville became gentrified and \"gitanos\" were slowly pushed out to the periphery and these new shanty towns.\n\nIn the post-Franco era, Spanish government policy has been much more sympathetic, especially in the area of social welfare and social services. In 1977, the last anti-Romani laws were repealed, an action promoted by Juan de Dios Ramírez Heredia, the first Romani deputy.\n\nSince 1983, the government has operated a special program of Compensatory Education to promote educational rights for the disadvantaged, including those in Romani communities. During the heroin epidemic that afflicted Spain in the 80s and 90s, Gitano shanty towns became central to the drug trade, a problem which afflicts Spain to this day. Although the size of shanty towns has been vastly reduced in Madrid, they remain significant in other major cities such as Seville, Huelva and Almería. Nevertheless, Spain is still considered a model for integration of \"gitano\" communities when compared to other countries with Rom populations in Eastern Europe.\n\nMany Spanish Romanies have been converted to Evangelical Christianity by US-funded religious organizations. However, the bulk of \"gitanos\" in Andalusia remain strongly faithful to the region's Catholic traditions such as the cult of the Virgin of the Rocío.\n\nIn Spain, \"gitanos\" were traditionally Roman Catholics who participated in four of the Church's sacraments (baptism, marriage, confirmation, and extreme unction). They are not regular churchgoers. They rarely go to folk healers, and they participate fully in Spain's state-supported medical system. Gitanos have a special involvement with recently dead kin and visit their graves frequently. They spend more money than non-Gitanos of equivalent economic classes in adorning grave sites.\n\nThe Spanish Evangelical Federation (mostly composed by members of the Assemblies of God and Pentecostal) claims that 150,000 Gitanos have joined their faith in Spain. The Romani Evangelical Assembly is the only religious institution entirely led and composed by Roma.\n\nThe traditional Spanish Romani place a high value on the extended family. Virginity is essential in unmarried women. Both men and women often marry young.\n\nA traditional \"gitano\" wedding requires a \"pedimiento\" (similar to an engagement party) followed by the \"casamiento\" (wedding ceremony), where \"el yeli\" must be sung to the bride for giving her honor to her husband (proven by the ritual of the \"pañuelo\"). In the pañuelo ritual, a group consisting of an \"ajuntaora\" (an elder woman who is well respected in the family), along with the older aunts and elder woman of the family, take the bride into a separate room during the wedding and examine her to ascertain that she is a virgin. The \"ajuntaora\" is the one who practices the ritual on the bride, as the other women watch to be witnesses that the bride is virgin.\n\nThe cloth (\"pañuelo\") must have three rose petals on it. When finished with the exam, the women come out of the room and sing \"el yeli\" to the couple. During this, the men at the wedding rip their shirts and lift the wife onto their shoulders and do the same with the husband, as they sing \"el yeli\" to them. Weddings can last very long; up to three days is usual in the Gitano culture. At weddings, \"gitanos\" invite everyone and anyone that they know of (especially other \"gitanos\"). On some occasions, \"payos\" (\"gadjos\") may attend as well, although this is not common. Through the night, many \"bulerías\" are danced and especially sung. Today, \"rumba gitana\" or \"rumba flamenca\" are a usual party music fixture.\n\nAccording to the website of Fundación Secretariado Gitano (\"Gitano Secretariat Foundation\"), in the Spanish prison system the Spanish Romani women represent 25% of the incarcerated feminine population, while Spanish Romani people represent 1.4% of the total Spanish population. 64% of the detentions of gitano people are drug trafficking-related. 93.2% of women inmates for drug trafficking are \"gitanas\". 13.2% of the total drug trafficking-related inmates are of gitano ethnicity.\n\nThe Gitanos in Spanish society have inspired several authors:\n\nFollowing are notable Spanish people of gypsy (\"gitano\") ethnicity:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDue to endogamy, several Spanish surnames are more frequent among the Gitanos, though they are not exclusive to them:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1618065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1618065", "title": "Great Rites Controversy", "text": "Great Rites Controversy\n\nThe Great Rites Controversy (Chinese: ) took place in the decade following 1524 in Ming China. It pitted the young and newly enthroned Jiajing Emperor against the Grand Secretary Yang Tinghe and the majority of the Confucian officials in his government.\n\nThe Jiajing Emperor had succeeded his first cousin, the Zhengde Emperor after the latter died childless. His uncle, the Hongzhi Emperor, had not left any other surviving children either. In order to perform the proper rituals owed him according to tradition, it was necessary that the Jiajing Emperor be posthumously adopted by his late uncle who has been dead for nearly two decades. The Jiajing Emperor was reluctant to do this partly because he feared the influence of the Hongzhi Emperor's surviving wife, Empress Dowager Zhang. In this he had the support of his biological mother, who was angered by the prospect that her son could be removed from her by adoption. \n\nThe conflict between the emperor backed by his mother and officialdom backed by the empress dowager was finally broken by memorials to the throne (namely, by newly qualified scholar-bureaucrats Zhang Cong and Gui E) arguing that rituals performed contrary to the emperor's own heart would be against human nature. Encouraged by this, gradually Emperor Jiajing fostered the idea of \"ascending the clan but not the lineage\" and grew more presumptuous.\n\nThe core counter-argument to Emperor Jiajing's claim, supported by a large majority of court officials, had to do with the imperial treatment of the Zhengde Emperor and his widow Empress Xia. The couple together had passed the throne to their cousin instead of an adopted child of their own, in favor of their mother-in-law. As a matter of fact, Emperor Jiajing's grandfather Emperor Chenghua had other great-grandsons and this was brought up in the discussion of royal succession with the empress dowager, prior to summoning Emperor Jiajing to Beijing in her name. \n\nEmperor Jiajing decided to allow his own father Zhu Youyuan, the late Prince Xian of Xing, to be posthumously elevated to the status of emperor and particularly be granted seniority over Zhengde Emperor, who was the late prince's sovereign during his life. Prime Minister Yang Tinghe was forced into retirement; his son Yang Shen who led the counter-argument was sent to exile and nearly murdered on the way. By the end of Emperor Jiajing's one-sided settlement, enemies and dissenters at court were beaten (sometimes to death), imprisoned, or banished. According to the histories this marked the beginning of the young emperor's authoritarian rule.\n"}
{"id": "10805870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10805870", "title": "Greenland in World War II", "text": "Greenland in World War II\n\nThe fall of Denmark in April 1940 left the Danish colony of Greenland an unoccupied territory of an occupied nation, under threat of seizure by the United Kingdom or Canada. To forestall this, the United States acted to guarantee Greenland's position. However, with the entrance of the United States into the war in December 1941, Greenland became a combatant.\n\nFrom 1941 until 1945, the United States established numerous and extensive facilities for air and sea traffic in Greenland, as well as radio beacons, radio stations, weather stations, ports, depots, artillery posts, and search-and-rescue stations. The United States Coast Guard also provided a considerable portion of the civilian resupply task up and down both coasts.\n\nEconomically, Greenland traded successfully with the United States, Canada, and Portugal, which, supplemented by the cryolite exports, caused a reanimation and permanent realignment of the island's economy.\n\nBefore the war, Greenland was a tightly controlled colony of Denmark, otherwise closed off to the world. After the invasion of Denmark on 9 April 1940, Greenland was left on its own, because the Royal Navy seized any ships arriving from Axis-controlled Europe. The United Kingdom and Canada initially laid plans to occupy points of interest on the island, but the United States, still neutral, firmly rejected \"third party\" intervention there. The sheriffs (\"landsfogeder\") of South and North Greenland, Eske Brun and Aksel Svane, invoking the emergency clause of a 1925 law specifying how Greenland was ruled, declared Greenland a self-ruling territory, believing this to be in the best interests of the colony as Denmark was occupied by Germany. This step was taken in coordination with the Danish ambassador to the United States, Henrik Kauffmann, and the US State Department, and comported with the American declaration of 1920 that no third nation would necessarily be accepted as a sovereign in Greenland. This diplomatic stance was seen as an extension of the Monroe Doctrine.\n\nAlthough the Danish government continued in power and still considered itself neutral, it was forced to obey German wishes in foreign policy matters. Kauffmann immediately recognized that his government was unable to exercise its full sovereignty, and therefore began to act in an independent capacity. On 13 April he took council with the Greenland sheriffs, and after some controversy they agreed to recognize him as their representative in the United States. Since the United States would not offer diplomatic recognition and aid to Greenland unless the local administration was independent, the sheriffs informed the local advisory parliament (\"Landsraad\") on 3 May that \"there was no choice\" but to act as a sovereign nation. The Danish Government continued to send orders to the colony via radio and through Portugal, but these messages were ignored. In this decision they were influenced by their determination to avoid becoming subject to a Canadian occupation and thus being drawn into the war.\n\nThe Greenlanders were also aware of the heavy Norwegian presence in Canada. In the event that Canada attempted to occupy the colony, they were worried that Free Norwegian Forces would be stationed in the area. This was a cause for concern, as the Norwegians had been vying for control over part of the territory until the Permanent Court of International Justice settled the dispute in 1933. Instead, they requested the protection of the United States, whose Treasury Department agreed to dispatch the US Coast Guard vessels, and with supplies and a consular team to establish a provisional consulate at Godthaab. Accepting the protection of the Americans, a third party, was seen as less of a threat to Greenland's sovereignty. \"Comanche\" arrived at Ivigtut on 20 May, and Godthaab on 22 May, thereby establishing direct diplomatic relations with Greenland. Canada sent a consul and vice-consul to Godthaab two weeks later.\nIn 1940, the chief concern of all interested parties was to secure the strategically important supply of cryolite from the mine at Ivigtut. Cryolite was a key component used in the production of aluminum. Due to diplomatic considerations, no American soldiers could be used to protect the mines so the US State Department recruited fifteen Coast Guardsmen who were voluntarily discharged and in turn hired by the mine as guards. Three-inch naval deck guns were supplied by \"Campbell\" and the recently arrived along with eight machine guns, fifty rifles, and thousands of rounds of ammunition. In this way the United States maintained neutrality and still preempted British-Canadian plans for the island.\n\nThe Dane, Eske Brun, decided that Greenland should untertake its own measures to ensure its sovereignty. He made an appeal to the Greenland's guides and hunters to join an elite unit tasked with patrolling the most remote areas of the colony. Using the rifles left by the Americans, he directed the creation of what became the Sirius Sledge Patrol. The 15 man volunteer team was made up of native Inuit, Danish colonists, and Norwegian expatriates.\n\nGermany made no attempts to reach Greenland in 1940. However, three Norwegian vessels reached Norwegian stations on the East Coast. Two were intercepted by the Royal Navy, one (which was left to go) by the US Coast Guard. Britain violated Greenland neutrality by destroying the Norwegian stations, drawing an American protest, and a German reconnaissance plane made a flight over the East Coast in November in order to check on a Norwegian station that had not been heard from.\n\nIn 1941, the situation shifted towards delivery of Lend-Lease aircraft to Britain via the North Atlantic island \"stepping stones.\" Again, the United Kingdom and Canada pressed for an operation to establish an airfield near Cape Farewell. This forced the United States and the Greenland government to formalize an American protectorate in order to preserve the island's neutrality. Following surveys in 1940 and 1941, two locations for air bases were located, and a naval base established close to Ivigtut. The American bases and stations were codenamed under the Bluie West and Bluie East moniker.\n\nPresident Franklin D. Roosevelt took a strong personal interest in Greenland's fate. On 9 April 1941, the anniversary of the German occupation, the Danish envoy Kauffmann, against the instructions of his government, signed an executive agreement with Secretary of State Cordell Hull, allowing the presence of American troops and making Greenland a \"de facto\" United States protectorate. The cryolite mine in Ivigtut was a unique asset that made it possible for Greenland to manage fairly well economically during the war. The United States supplied the island and sent patrol boats to survey the east coast of Greenland although this activity was limited by seasonal ice. The Coast Guard, in coordination with Eske Brun, created the Northeast Greenland Sledge Patrol, consisting of 15 men, many of them former hunters in the area. Their task was to patrol the coast to discover any German activity. However, in 1941 there was no such landing, although the Norwegian resupply trawler was encountered in September. Among its otherwise innocuous crew and passengers was a civilian Norwegian who intended to provide weather reports for German contacts in Norway. This ship was seized and brought to Boston.\n\nIn 1941, British ships continued to interfere with weather stations on the east coast. A couple of reconnaissance aircraft from Norway flew over Scoresbysund.\n\nWhen the United States entered the war with Germany on 11 December, Greenland became a warring nation. Remaining contact with Copenhagen was broken off, rationing and daylight saving time was introduced, and local currency and stamps printed. In 1942, the U.S. Army took over protection of the Ivigtut mine, and combat patrols began to be flown from Bluie West One, which became the headquarters for both the Coast Guard Greenland Patrol and the United States Army Air Force (USAAF) Greenland Base Command. A third air base was established at Bluie East Two during the summer. \n\nThe Greenland population, which had been 18,000 natives and fewer than 500 Danes, was augmented by thousands of U.S. servicemen. Relations with the Americans were excellent, as they provided news, provisions, humanitarian aid, and entertainment in addition to greatly expanding the island's infrastructure. In 1944 a five kroner coin was struck in Philadelphia, to be used by American soldiers. Greenland's commercial interests in North America were maintained by the Greenland Delegation with the aid of Kauffmann and Svane. Brun remained in Greenland as head of a unified administration.\n\nBeginning in August 1942, the Germans established four clandestine weather stations on the east coast. The first expedition on Sabine Island was detected in the spring, but was withdrawn successfully before it was attacked. The fall 1943 expedition at Shannon Island also operated successfully over the winter and spring and was withdrawn by air. Two expeditions in October 1944 were seized by the Coast Guard before they could get established.\n\nThe German weather station \"Holzauge\" at Hansa Bay on the northeast coast of Sabine Island was discovered by a team from the Sledge Patrol on 11 March 1943. The Germans realized they had been discovered, and gave chase to the team, who had to abandon their equipment (including their dog teams) and retreat to the station at Eskimonæs, to warn Ib Poulsen, the Sledge Patrol commander. Poulsen reported the German base to the Greenland government on 13 March 1943, and asked for automatic weapons and further orders. Governor Brun officially designated the patrol the \"Army of Greenland\" and named Poulsen its captain, effective 15 March.\n\nThe Germans attacked Eskimonaes on 23 March. Before help could arrive they seized and burned the station. Though unhurt, the entire Sledge Patrol contingent based there was forced to make a 400-mile trek to the station at Ella Island without sleds, food, or equipment. On their way back to Sabine, the Germans ambushed a three-man patrol at Sandodden, killing the leader, Corporal Eli Knudsen. In late-April, Lieutenant Hermann Ritter, the officer in command of the German detachment , was taken prisoner by the Sledge Patrol and brought to the Americans after a long journey to Scoresby Sound.\nThe German base on Sabine was bombed by USAAF bombers from Iceland. It was then seized by a Coast Guard landing party, but all German personnel save one person had already been evacuated by a Dornier Do 26.<ref name=\"Dege/Barrxx\">Dege & Barr (2004), p. xx</ref> Apart from fire exchanged between German aircraft and American ships, this was the only offensive air attack on the Greenland mainland. An American air force formation attacked the station on 14 May to make sure it could be of no use to the Germans. Two more skirmishes occurred between the Sledge Patrol and the Germans, leaving the Greenland force with two more dead and four wounded by the end of conflict in 1944.\n\nThe last German weather station, \"Edelweiss II\", was captured by US Army forces and its crew taken prisoner on 4 October 1944. The American troops landed from the icebreaker , which later transferred the prisoners to . The German transport ship , which was resupplying the station, was seized by \"Eastwind\", renamed \"Eastbreeze\" and commissioned in the United States Coast Guard.<ref name=\"Dege/Barrxxx\">Dege & Barr (2004), p. xxx</ref>\n\nGreenland played an important role in North Atlantic air traffic during the war, but the island's role as a major base for anti-submarine warfare assets was hampered by adverse weather, winter darkness, and difficult logistics. For a long period, a flight of six PBY Catalinas of VP-6(CG) was maintained at Bluie West One, carrying out a great variety of missions.\n\nOn 5 May 1945, Greenlanders celebrated the liberation of Denmark in Nuuk. The Greenland Administration under Eske Brun surrendered its emergency powers and again came under direct control from Copenhagen. Kauffmann returned to Copenhagen, where treason charges against him were dropped, and the Danish parliament ratified his agreement with the United States. The United States presence continued in decreasing numbers until the Kauffmann-Hull agreement was replaced by a new base treaty in 1951. \nThe successful experience of an independent Greenland led to a dramatic restructuring and modernization of Danish policy with respect to the colony.\n\nThe remains of the police station in Eskimonæs exists to this day. The only fully remaining structure is the outhouse, as it was not burnt by the Germans. The rest is well-preserved in the arctic environment.\n\nA scene in the thriller \"The Manchurian Candidate\" includes an American veteran of the struggle against the German weather stations in Greenland giving a rather fanciful account of his experiences.\n\nThe novel \"Ice Brothers\" by former US Coast Guard officer Sloan Wilson tells of the experiences of the crew and the hardships they faced aboard a small Coast Guard cutter that was part of the Greenland Patrol.\n\n"}
{"id": "3963070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3963070", "title": "Hwana language", "text": "Hwana language\n\nHwana (also known as Hwona, Hona, Tuftera, Fiterya) is an Afro-Asiatic language spoken in Adamawa State, Nigeria.\n"}
{"id": "22109088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22109088", "title": "Hyder Bux Jatoi", "text": "Hyder Bux Jatoi\n\nHyder Bux Jatoi (1901-1970) was a revolutionary, leftist, peasant leader in Sindh, Pakistan. He is known by his supporters as \"Baba-e-Sindh\" (Father of Sindh). He was also a Sindhi writer and poet. He was for many years the president of the Sindh Hari Committee (Sindh Peasants Committee), a constituent member of the National Awami Party. The singer & revolutionary activist of Sindh Jiji Zareena Baloch was always quoted Comrade Hyder Bux Jatoi before singing his \"Jeay Sindh aen jeay Sindh, Jam-e-Muhabat pieay Sindh\" and \"Paan Kkay haan aazad ghurjay watan\" poetry.\n\nHyder Bakhsh Jatoi was born on October 7, 1901 in Bakhodero village near Mohenjo-daro in Larkana District. Deprived in infancy of motherly care and love, as his mother, Sahib Khatoon died soon after his birth, he was brought up by his father and aunts. Soon after, on completing his primary school, the young lad joined the Sindh Madarsah School at Larkana, where he topped the list of successful examinees every year. He topped the Sindh vernacular final examination in 1918 among candidates from all over Sindh and then won his first position in Sindh at the matriculation examination from the Bombay University in 1923.\n\nHe studied at the D. J. Science College, Karachi, and remained a resident boarder in Metharam Hostel attached to the college. He graduated in 1927 with honours in literature and won distinction in Persian from the Bombay University. He served as editor of the college miscellany and won the annual award for writing a poem called \"college kabootar\" (the college pigeon). Throughout his student life at Larkana and Karachi, he was a scholarship holder.\n\nHe wrote the poem:\nThe path to Allah I perceived with difficulty,\nNot in mosque, temple or church\nNo place for thinking or logic anywhere\nI saw him truly in my own heart.\n\nHyder Bux Jatoi resigned from the post as deputy collector in the British colonial government in 1945 to lead the Sindh peasants’ rights movement Hyder Bux Jatoi translation of the Quran in English.\n\nHe married his cousin Sammul at the age of 27. He called her by his endearing name \"Mumtaz\" (translating to excellent). They had five sons, Mustafa, Mazhar Ali, Dadan, Hatim and Murtaza.\n\nThe subhuman conditions of harees (farmers) and tillers of the land led him to resign from his job in 1945 and to join the Sindh Hari Party.\n\nHe began his career in social service and politics as a member of the Indian National Congress.\n\n\"We are now passing through the same stage in the history of our economic life through which the leading nations of Europe passed more than 400 years ago, this showed how backward we were, and have been kept where we are.\"\n\nHe died on the 21st May 1970 at Hyder Manzil, Hyder chowk, Hyderabad. He had written his epitaph before his death, which was read at his funeral: \n\n\"O death you have cooled every vein and vessel of mine,\nBe happy O friend without you rest in life is not possible.\"\n\nHis wife Mumtaz Hyder died five months later and was buried beside him.\n"}
{"id": "36377209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36377209", "title": "International Development Design Summit", "text": "International Development Design Summit\n\nThe International Development Design Summit is a collaboration to find cost effective technology solutions for the third world. It was first held in 2007 at MIT. It is held annually to study problems in the developing world and create real, workable solutions to them.\n\n\"I believe very strongly that solutions to problems in the developing world are best created in collaboration with the people who will be using them\", said founder Amy Smith . \"By bringing this group of people together, we get an incredibly broad range of backgrounds and experiences.\n\n\"WorldChanging\" reported on August 14, 2007 that the results from the first International Development Design Summit (IDDS) had been very positive with end products including an off-grid refrigeration unit tailored for rural areas using an evaporative cooling method to store perishable food and a low-cost greenhouse from recycled and widely available materials.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1755121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1755121", "title": "Jeung San Do", "text": "Jeung San Do\n\nJeung San Do (), occasionally called Jeungsanism ( \"Jeungsangyo\"), meaning \"The Dao/Tao of Jeung-san\", although this term is better reserved for a larger family of movements, is a new religious movement founded in South Korea in 1974. It is one of more than 100 Korean religious movements that recognize Gang Il-sun (강일순) (Kang Jeungsan, or Chungsan), an early 20th century religious leader, as the incarnation and personification of Sangjenim (上帝任, the \"governing spirit of the universe\") and performed a \"reordering of the universe\" through his mission and rituals. The religion is characterised by a universal message, millenarianism, and a method of healing meditation. \n\nA number of branches of Jeungsanism trace their origins to Goh Pan-Lye (Subu, literally “Head Lady,” 1880-1935, although in Kang's circle there was more than one \"Subu\"), a female disciple of Kang Jeungsan. Around September 1911, Goh gathered around her a number of Kang's followers. Eventually, Goh’s male cousin, Cha Gyeong-Seok (1880-1936), a leading disciple of Kang, became the leader of Goh's branch. Dissatisfied with this situation, Goh separated from Cha in 1919 and established her own new religion. In the 1920s, Cha’s branch, known as Bocheon-gyo, became the largest Korean new religious movement and possibly the largest religion in Korea, with some six million followers. It declined rapidly after Cha's death in 1936, and fragmented into several competing group, as did Goh's organization. Jeung San Do is the largest among the branches claiming a lineage originating from Goh. It was founded by Ahn Un-san (born in 1922), who established his first religious organization in 1945. After further divisions, Ahn founded Jeung San Do in 1974 together with his son, Ahn Gyeong-jeon (b. 1954). Jeung San Do believes that, as Kang was God the Father, Goh, revered with the title of Tae-mo-nim, was God the mother and between 1926 and 1935 performed her own reordering of the universe. Jeung San Do is the movement within Jeungsanism with the most visible presence abroad, although it is not the largest branch in Korea.\nThe central text of Jeungsanism, the Dojeon, was first published in Korean in 1992. The name \"Dojeon\" is used by other branches of Jeungsanism for their own, different sacred texts. Jeung San Do's version contains detailed description of Jeungsan Sangjenim's and Taemonim's (\"Great Mother\") lives and of \"Cheonjigongsa\", the \"Renewal of Heaven and Earth\". The Jeungsanist theory stresses the concept of Tao, the way of nature.\n\nJeungsanism is often understood as having stemmed from Korean Sinism and Chinese millenarian Taoism, and is defined as one of the Korean indigenous religions.\n\n\"Jeung San Do\" means \"the Way [\"dao/do/Tao\", 道] of the \"Jeung\"(甑)[\"siru\"] \"San\"(山)[mountain]\". The word \"\"jeung\" is \"siru\" in Korean, which is Korean food streamer vessel for cooking Korean rice cakes, \"Tteok\"(떡). It signifies a vast vessel by metaphor that can contain everything in the world. To conclude, \"jeung\" (甑) denotes the process of rising, maturation, fruition or growth.\n\n\"Jeung san\"\" is also a traditional Korean descriptive term for the highest mountain in a region or \"steamer mountain\". \"\"Do\" (道) denotes Tao, the way. Considered as a whole, therefore, the name \"Jeung San Do\"\" signifies the highest truth that surpasses all existing religions and teachings.\n\nSangjenim means \"Highest Emperor\", and is cognate of the Chinese \"Shangdi\". It is the governing spirit of the universe, and Jeung San Do believe he was incarnated as Gang Il-sun., although God for Jeung San Do also exists as God the mother, incarnated on earth as Goh Pan-Lye.\n\nJeung San Do teaches that, at the age of seven, Sangjenim attained a sudden spiritual awakening while watching a performance of traditional music and dance. When he was twenty-four, he witnessed the tumultuous events of the Donghak (Eastern Learning) Uprising in which an ill-equipped but determined army of farmers fought the troops of both the Korean government and the Japanese. This insurrection sparked a war between China and Japan fought on the Korean peninsula and ended with the crushing defeat of the farmers and Japan's annexation of the country. After observing the death and misery brought on by these events, Jeung San Sangjenim resolved to save the world from suffering.\n\nHe traveled for three years to observe human behavior and the shape, qi, and spirit of the land. In 1901, after a period of intensive meditation he attained perfect enlightenment into the affairs of Heaven, Earth, and humanity. About this he said:\n\nIn that year, Sangjenim began a spiritual work that cannot be easily explained or understood. It was called the work of renewing Heaven and Earth (天地公事). For nine years, he conducted works of renewal in the form of rituals, proclamations, and conversations with humans and spirits and utilized the \"qi\" of various places and people. He established a federation of gods called the Creative Government, composed of regional gods, the founding spirits of family lines, gods that founded and advanced civilizations, enlightened spirits, spirits with unresolved bitterness and grief, and the spirits of revolutionaries. With this assembly of spirits, he intended to correct the wrongs of the past and chart a new course for the future. His work of renewing Heaven and Earth shifted the course of Heaven, Earth, and humanity and planted the seeds for a new enlightened and harmonious world of humans and gods.\n\nAccording to his followers, Sangjenim differed from other prophets in that he not only spoke about the future but, through his spiritual work, actually transformed it. One way of understanding this is the Butterfly Effect in Edward Lorenz's Chaos Theory. According to that theory, a butterfly flapping its wings in America could cause or prevent a tornado in Indonesia. This of course illustrates the improbability of predicting any event in a highly complex system due to the difficulty of knowing all variables. But, what if someone were enlightened to the point of omnipotence? What if someone did know all the variables? Such a person could not only predict the future, but with the rippling effect of seemingly small actions could actually change the future.\n\nAbout the method he used in the work of renewal, Sangjenim said:\n\nAccording to Jeun Sang Do, Gang Il-sun revealed to humanity that the universe embodies a four-fold cycle. A \"cosmic year\" contains four cosmic seasons corresponding to birth, growth, harvest, and rest.\n\nAccording to Jeung San Do, the History of Korea is that of a chessboard used by America, China, Russia, and Japan. While the Empire of Japan completed the annexation of Korea in 1910, they were merely pawns or workmen (\"ilkkun\") of Sangjenim; racial brothers who saved Korea from domination by the Western great powers. The Japanese, according to this narrative, provided the \"service\" (\"pongsa\") of modernizing Korea as penance for the Japanese invasions of Korea (1592–1598). Accordingly, resistance against Japan was ill-advised, and Chinilpa collaborationist organizations such as Iljinhoe should not be condemned. Koreans merely had to \"wait patiently\", as Jeung San Do taught, for the guests to vacate the board in order to assume ownership of the Korean Peninsula.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46191638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46191638", "title": "Kajana Sign Language", "text": "Kajana Sign Language\n\nKajana Sign Language (\"Kajana Gebarentaal\") is a village sign language of Suriname. It is spoken in Kajana, a village of just three families.\n"}
{"id": "259351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=259351", "title": "Kerner Commission", "text": "Kerner Commission\n\nThe National Advisory Commission on Civil Disorders, known as the Kerner Commission after its chair, Governor Otto Kerner, Jr. of Illinois, was an 11-member Presidential Commission established by President Lyndon B. Johnson in to investigate the causes of the 1967 race riots in the United States and to provide recommendations for the future.\n\nPresident Johnson appointed the commission on July 28, 1967, while rioting was still underway in Detroit, Michigan. Mounting civil unrest since 1965 had spawned riots in the black and Latino neighborhoods of major U.S. cities, including Los Angeles (Watts riots of 1965), Chicago (Division Street Riots of 1966 [the first Puerto Rican riot in US History]), and Newark (1967 Newark riots). In his remarks upon signing the order establishing the Commission, Johnson asked for answers to three basic questions about the riots: \"What happened? Why did it happen? What can be done to prevent it from happening again and again?\"\n\nThe Commission's final report, the Report of the National Advisory Commission on Civil Disorders or Kerner Report, was released on February 29, 1968, after seven months of investigation. The report became an instant bestseller, and over two million Americans bought copies of the 426-page document. Its finding was that the riots resulted from black frustration at the lack of economic opportunity. Martin Luther King Jr. pronounced the report a \"physician's warning of approaching death, with a prescription for life.\"\n\nThe report berated federal and state governments for failed housing, education and social-service policies. The report also aimed some of its sharpest criticism at the mainstream media. \"The press has too long basked in a white world looking out of it, if at all, with white men's eyes and white perspective.\"\n\nThe report's most famous passage warned, \"Our nation is moving toward two societies, one black, one white—separate and unequal.\"\n\nIts results suggested that one main cause of urban violence was white racism and suggested that white America bore much of the responsibility for black rioting and rebellion. It called to create new jobs, construct new housing, and put a stop to de facto segregation in order to wipe out the destructive ghetto environment. In order to do so, the report recommended for government programs to provide needed services, to hire more diverse and sensitive police forces and, most notably, to invest billions in housing programs aimed at breaking up residential segregation.\n\nAmong other points, the Commission's suggestions included:\n\n\nThe Law Enforcement Assistance Administration released federal funding for local police forces in response. Appointed by Johnson to serve as the commission's executive director, David Ginsburg played a pivotal role in writing the commission's findings.\n\nPresident Johnson, who had already pushed through the Civil Rights Act and the Voting Rights Act, ignored the report and rejected the Kerner Commission's recommendations. In April 1968, one month after the release of the Kerner report, rioting broke out in more than 100 cities following the assassination of civil rights leader Martin Luther King, Jr. \n\nTo mark the 30th anniversary of the Kerner Report, the Eisenhower Foundation sponsored two complementary reports, The Millennium Breach and Locked in the Poorhouse. The Millennium Breach, co-authored by former Senator and Commission member Fred R. Harris, found the racial divide had grown in the subsequent years with inner city unemployment at crisis levels.\nThe Millennium Breach found that most of the decade that followed the Kerner Report, America made progress on the principal fronts the report dealt with: race, poverty, and inner cities. Then progress stopped and in some ways reversed by a series of economic shocks and trends and the government's action and inaction.\n\nHarris reported, \"Today, thirty years after the Kerner Report, there is more poverty in America, it is deeper, blacker and browner than before, and it is more concentrated in the cities, which have become America's poorhouses.\"\n\nAt a 1998 lecture commemorating the 30th anniversary of the report, Stephan Thernstrom, a history professor at Harvard University, stated: \"Because the commission took for granted that the riots were the fault of white racism, it would have been awkward to have had to confront the question of why liberal Detroit blew up while Birmingham and other Southern cities — where conditions for blacks were infinitely worse — did not. Likewise, if the problem was white racism, why didn't the riots occur in the 1930s, when prevailing white racial attitudes were far more barbaric than they were in the 1960s?\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1597969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1597969", "title": "Kishka (prison cell)", "text": "Kishka (prison cell)\n\nA kishka is a type of prison cell used in Soviet prisons. The cell was named after the gut (, \"kíshka\"), in that it was tall and narrow, like an intestine, but more like a chimney. The prisoner had room to stand, but could not sit or kneel, let alone lie down. In some Soviet prisons there was no drainage and the prisoner was forced to excrete standing up and to stand in his own urine and feces. In some cases the cells were never cleaned. Prisoners could be held in these cells for days at a time.\n\n"}
{"id": "26816435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26816435", "title": "List of U.S. states by incarceration and correctional supervision rate", "text": "List of U.S. states by incarceration and correctional supervision rate\n\nThis article has lists of U.S. states by adult incarceration and correctional supervision rates according to United States Department of Justice figures. The state incarceration numbers include sentenced and unsentenced inmates in jails and state prisons, but not persons in federal prisons. They are listed separately. The state numbers also do not include youth held in juvenile detention.\n\nU.S. states by incarceration rate under state prison or local jail jurisdiction per 100,000 population. Rates are for yearend 2016. The table below has all 50 states plus the District of Columbia. \n\nAccording to the World Prison Brief the United States currently has the largest prison population in the world, and the highest incarceration rate.\n\nOn January 1, 2008 more than 1 in 100 adults in the United States were in prison or jail. Total US incarceration peaked in 2008. \n\nIn addition to the overall highest incarceration rate, the United States also has the highest rate of female incarceration. According to a November 2017 report by the World Prison Brief around 212,000 of the 714,000 female prisoners worldwide (women and girls) are incarcerated in the United States. In the United States in 2015, women made up 10.4% of the incarcerated population in adult prisons and jails. In most countries, the proportion of female inmates to the larger prison population is closer to one in twenty. Australia is the exception where the rate of female imprisonment increased from 9.2 percent in 1991 to 15.3 percent in 1999.\n\nComparing other English-speaking developed countries, whereas the incarceration rate in the US is 660 per 100,000 population of all ages (as of 2016 table above), the incarceration rate of Canada is 114 per 100,000 (as of 2015), England and Wales is 146 per 100,000 (as of 2016), and Australia is 160 per 100,000 (as of 2016). Comparing other developed countries, the rate of Spain is 133 per 100,000 (as of 2016), France is 110 per 100,000 (as of 2016), Germany is 76 per 100,000 (as of 2016), Norway is 73 per 100,000 (as of 2016), Netherlands is 69 per 100,000 (as of 2014), and Japan is 48 per 100,000 (as of 2014).\n\nIn addition, the United States has striking statistics when observing the racial dimension of mass incarceration. According to Michelle Alexander, the United States \"imprisons a larger percentage of its black population than South Africa did at the height of apartheid.\"\n\nChart below has numbers for people in adult facilities, and for people on probation and on parole. The incarceration numbers in the main part of the chart below are for sentenced and unsentenced inmates in adult facilities in local jails and state prisons, but not for people in federal prisons. \n\nThe bottom of the chart has totals and average rates for each column. \n\nFederal prison numbers are added at the end of the chart. So the total number (local, state, and federal) under adult correctional supervision is 6,582,100. That is a correctional supervision rate of 2,630 per 100,000 U.S. adult residents. That rounds off to 2.6% of US adult residents.\n\n\nRate Per 100,000 and Rank by State of Crime and Imprisionment by US States 1978 - 2012\nCrime,Punishment and Ratio of Crime to Punishment Per 100,000 and Rank by Year and between States\n"}
{"id": "53836251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53836251", "title": "List of cannabis rights organizations", "text": "List of cannabis rights organizations\n\nFollowing is a list of cannabis rights organizations:\n\n"}
{"id": "19241344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19241344", "title": "List of members of the House of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Glücksburg", "text": "List of members of the House of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Glücksburg\n\nThis is a list of members of the House of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Glücksburg, a cadet branch of the House of Oldenburg. It includes men and women who are members of the male-line descent from King Christian IX of Denmark and therefore bore the title of Prince of Denmark (unless giving it up).\n\nChristian IX of Denmark (1818–1906), had 3 sons and 3 daughters;\n<div id=\"Knud\">\n<div id=\"Hellenes\">\n\nPrince Carl of Denmark discontinued use of his Danish titles upon accepting the Norwegian throne, becoming King Haakon VII.\n\nPrince Philip of Greece and Denmark gave up the use of his Greek and Danish titles before marrying Princess Elizabeth, heiress to the British throne.\n\nThe Greek royal family continues to use the title \"Prince(ss) of Greece and Denmark\", but none of them have any succession rights in Denmark since 1953.\n\n"}
{"id": "657363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=657363", "title": "List of serial killers by country", "text": "List of serial killers by country\n\nThis is a list of notable serial killers, by the country where most of the murders were committed.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n, South Africa had 160 recorded serial killers since 1950. A disproportionately large number them were white males, although no racial group were more likely to be victims.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThis is a list of unidentified serial killers. It includes circumstances where a suspect has been arrested, but not convicted.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30862962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30862962", "title": "Macuahuitl", "text": "Macuahuitl\n\nA macuahuitl () is a wooden club with obsidian blades. The name is derived from the Nahuatl language and means \"hand-wood\". Its sides are embedded with prismatic blades traditionally made from obsidian; obsidian is capable of producing an edge sharper than high quality steel razor blades. The macuahuitl was a standard close combat weapon.\n\nUse of the maquahuitl as a weapon is attested from the first millennium CE. By the time of the Spanish conquest the macuahuitl was widely distributed in Mesoamerica. The weapon was used by different civilisations including the Aztec (Mexicas), Mayan, Mixtec and Toltec.\n\nOne example of this weapon survived the Conquest of Mexico; it was part of the Royal Armoury of Madrid until it was destroyed by a fire in 1884. Images of the original designs survive in diverse catalogues. The oldest replica is the macuahuitl created by the medievalist Achille Jubinal in the 19th century.\n\nThe maquahuitl (, other orthographic variants include , and ), a type of , was a common weapon used by the Aztec military forces and other cultures of central Mexico. It was noted during the 16th-century Spanish conquest of the region. Other military equipment recorded includes the round shield (, ), the bow (, ), and the spear-thrower (, ). Its sides are embedded with prismatic blades traditionally made from obsidian; obsidian is capable of producing an edge sharper than high-quality steel razor blades.\n\nIt was capable of inflicting serious lacerations from the rows of obsidian blades embedded in its sides. These could be knapped into blades or spikes, or into a circular design that looked like scales. The maquahuitl is not a sword or a club, although it approximates a European broadsword.\n\nAccording to conquistador , the macuahuitl was 0.91 to 1.22 m long, and 75 mm wide, with a groove along either edge, into which sharp-edged pieces of flint or obsidian were inserted and firmly fixed with an adhesive. The rows of obsidian blades were sometimes discontinuous, leaving gaps along the side, while at other times the rows were set close together and formed a single edge. It was noted by the Spanish that the macuahuitl was so cleverly constructed that the blades could be neither pulled out nor broken. The macuahuitl was made with either a one-handed or two-handed grip, as well as in rectangular, ovoid, or pointed forms. Two-handed macuahuitl have been described as being \"as tall as a man\".\n\nAccording to National School of Anthropology and History (ENAH) archaeologist Marco Cervera Obregón, there were two versions of this weapon: The macuahuitl, about long with six to eight blades on each side; and the mācuāhuitzōctli, a smaller club about long with only four obsidian blades.\n\nAccording to Ross Hassig, the last authentic macuahuitl was destroyed in 1884 in a fire in the Real Armería in Madrid, where it was housed beside the last tepoztopilli. According to Marco Cervera Obregón, there is supposed to be at least one macuahuitl in a Museo Nacional de Antropología warehouse, but it is possibly lost.\n\nNo actual maquahuitl specimens remain and the present knowledge of them comes from contemporaneous accounts and illustrations that date to the 16th century and earlier.\n\nThe maquahuitl predates the Aztecs. Tools made from obsidian fragments were used by some of the earliest Mesoamericans. Obsidian used in ceramic vessels has been found at Aztec sites. Obsidian cutting knives, sickles, scrapers, drills, razors, and arrow points have also been found. Several obsidian mines were close to the Aztec civilisations in the Valley of Mexico as well as in the mountains north of the valley. Among these were the Sierra de las Navajas (Razor Mountains), named after their obsidian deposits. Use of the maquahuitl as a weapon is attested from the 1st milleniaCE. A Mayan carving at Chichen Itza shows a warrior holding a macuahuitl, depicted as a club having separate blades sticking out from each side. In a mural, a warrior holds a club with many blades on one side and one sharp point on the other, also a possible variant of the macuahuitl.\n\nBy the time of the Spanish conquest the macuahuitl was widely distributed in Mesoamerica, with records of its use by the Aztecs, Mixtecs, Tarascans, Toltecs and others. It was also commonly used by the Indian auxiliaries of Spain, though they favored Spanish swords. As Mesoamericans in Spanish service needed a special permission to carry European arms, metal swords brought Indian auxiliaries more prestige than maquahuitls in the eyes of Europeans as well as natives.\n\nThe macuahuitl was sharp enough to decapitate a man. According to an account by Bernal Díaz del Castillo, one of Hernán Cortés’s conquistadors, it could even decapitate a horse:\n\nAnother account by a companion of Cortés known as \"The Anonymous Conqueror\" tells a similar story of its effectiveness:\nAnother account by Francisco de Aguilar reads:\n\nGiven the importance of human sacrifice in Nahua cultures, their warfare styles, particularly those of the Aztec and Maya, placed a premium on the capture of enemy warriors for live sacrifice. Advancement into the elite \"cuāuhocēlōtl\" warrior societies of the Aztec, for example, required taking 20 live captives from the battlefield. The macuahuitl thus shows several features designed to make it a useful tool for capturing prisoners: fitting spaced instead of contiguous blades, as seen in many codex illustrations, would intentionally limit the wound depth from a single blow, and the heavy wooden construction allows weakened opponents to be easily clubbed unconscious with the flat side of the weapon. The art of disabling opponents using an un-bladed macuahuitl as a sparring club was taught from a young age in the Aztec Tēlpochcalli schools.\n\nThe macuahuitl had many drawbacks in combat versus European steel swords. Despite being objectively sharper, prismatic obsidian is also considerably more brittle than steel; obsidian blades of the type used on the macuahuitl tended to shatter on impact with other obsidian blades, steel swords or plate armour. Obsidian blades also have difficulty penetrating European mail. The thin, replaceable blades used on the macuahuitl were easily dulled or chipped by repeated impacts on bone or wood, making artful use of the weapon critical. It takes more time to lift and swing a club than it does to thrust with a sword. More space is needed as well, so warriors advanced in loose formations and fought in single combat.\n\nReplicas of the macuahuitl have been produced and tested against sides of beef for documentary shows on the History and Discovery channels, to demonstrate the effectiveness of this weapon. On the History show \"Warriors\", special forces operator and martial artist Terry Schappert injured himself while fencing with a macuahuitl; he cut the back of his left leg as the result of a back-swing motion.\n\nFor SpikeTV's reality program \"Deadliest Warrior\" a replica was created and tested against a model of a horse's head created using a horse's skeleton and ballistics gel. Actor and martial artist Éder Saúl López was able to decapitate the model, but it took three swings. Blows from the replica macuahuitl were most effective when it was swung and then dragged backwards upon impact, creating a sawing motion. This led Max Geiger, the computer programmer of the series, to refer to the weapon as \"the obsidian chainsaw\". This may have been due to the crudely made obsidian cutting edges of the weapon used in the show, compared with more finely made prismatic obsidian blades, as in the Madrid specimen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5574392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5574392", "title": "Medical model", "text": "Medical model\n\nMedical model is the term coined by psychiatrist R. D. Laing in his \"The Politics of the Family and Other Essays\" (1971), for the \"set of procedures in which all doctors are trained\". It includes complaint, history, physical examination, ancillary tests if needed, diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis with and without treatment.\n\nThe medical model has proven highly successful and even indispensable in many contexts; it is difficult to name a plausible alternative to medical diagnosis and treatment for a depressed skull fracture.\n\nThe medical model embodies basic assumptions about medicine that drive research and theorizing about physical or psychological difficulties on a basis of causation and remediation.\n\nIt can be contrasted with other models that make different basic assumptions. Examples include holistic model of the alternative health movement and the social model of the disability rights movement, as well as to biopsychosocial and recovery models of mental disorders. For example, Gregory Bateson's double bind theory of schizophrenia focuses on environmental rather than medical causes. These models are not mutually exclusive. A model is not a statement of absolute reality or a belief system but a tool for helping patients. Thus, utility is the main criterion, and the utility of a model depends on context.\n\nIn psychology, the term \"Medical Model\" refers to the assumption that psychopathology is the result of one's biology, that is to say, a physical/organic problem in brain structures, neurotransmitters, genetics, the endocrine system etc., as with traumatic brain injury, Alzheimer's disease, or Down's syndrome. The medical model is useful in these situations as a guide for diagnosis, prognosis, and research. However, for most mental disorders, exclusive reliance on the medical model leads to an incomplete understanding, and, frequently, to incomplete or ineffective treatment interventions. The current Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5), addresses this point in part, stating, \"However, in the absence of clear biological markers or clinically useful measurements of severity for many mental disorders, it has not been possible to completely separate normal and pathological symptom expressions contained in diagnostic criteria. This gap in information is particularly problematic in clinical situations in which the patient's symptom presentation by itself (particularly in mild forms) is not inherently pathological and may be encountered in individuals for whom a diagnosis of 'mental disorder' would be inappropriate.\" \n\nThe rise of modern scientific medicine during the 19th century has a great impact on the development of the medical model. Especially important was the development of the \"germ theory\" of disease by European medical researchers such as Louis Pasteur and Robert Koch. During the late 19th and the early 20th centuries, the physical causes of a variety of diseases were uncovered, which, in turn, led to the development of effective forms of treatment.\n\nThe concepts of \"disease\" and \"injury\" are central to the medical model. In general, \"disease\" or \"injury\" refer to some deviation from normal body functioning that has undesirable consequences for the affected individual. An important aspect of the medical model is that it regards signs (objective indicators such as an elevated temperature) and symptoms (subjective feelings of distress expressed by the patient) as indicative of an underlying physical abnormality (pathology) within the individual. According to the medical model, medical treatment, wherever possible, should be directed at the underlying pathology in an attempt to correct the abnormality and cure the disease. In regard to many mental illnesses, for example, the assumption is that the cause of the disorder lies in abnormalities within the affected individual’s brain (specially their brain neurochemistry). That carries the implicit conclusion that disordered behaviors are not learned but are spontaneously generated by the disordered brain. According to the medical model, for treatment (such as drugs), to be effective, it should be directed as closely as possible at correcting the theorized chemical imbalance in the mentally ill person’s brain.\n\nProper diagnosis (that is, the categorization of illness signs and symptoms into meaning disease groupings) is essential to the medical model. Placing the patient's signs and symptoms into the correct diagnostic category can:\n\n\nFor example, if a patient presents to a primary care provider with symptoms of a given illness, by taking a thorough history, performing assessments (such as auscultation and palpation), and, in some cases, ordering diagnostic tests the primary care provider can make a reasonable conclusion about the cause of the symptoms. Based on clinical experience and available evidence, the health care professional can identify treatment options that are likely to be successful.\n\nFinally, adherence to the medical model has a number of other consequences for the patient and society as a whole, both positive and negative:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36499666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36499666", "title": "Mensendieck system", "text": "Mensendieck system\n\nThe Mensendieck system is a therapeutic movement technique claimed to be both corrective and preventive. It was invented by a German medical doctor Bess M. Mensendieck (c.1866–1959).\n\nShe published several books on the subject starting with \"Körperkultur der Frau [Physical Culture of the Woman]\", 1906.\n"}
{"id": "24023080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24023080", "title": "Mohammad Ishaq Aloko", "text": "Mohammad Ishaq Aloko\n\nMohammad Ishaq Aloko ; born 1935) is the Attorney General of Afghanistan since August 2008. He was appointed by President Hamid Karzai after Abdul Jabar Sabit was forced to resign from the post. An ethnic Pashtun, he was born in Kandahar, Afghanistan.\n\nIshaq completed his middle school in Kandahar Province of Afghanistan. He is also a graduate of the Military High School and the Military Academy of Kabul.\n\nAfter the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan, Aloko moved to the Federal Republic of Germany where he studied Law and Administration.\n\nAloko worked as an intelligence officer for former President Mohammed Daoud Khan. From the early 1980s to the early 2000s he lived in Germany and worked at the Ministry of Justice in the State of Hamburg.\n\nAfter the fall of Taliban, he returned to Afghanistan. He worked as the First Deputy Attorney General and President of the Commission for Guantanamo Detainees. He was also a member of the Advisory Board of the Attorney General.\n\nIn August 2008, Aloko became the Attorney General of Afghanistan.\n\nIn 2003, by a Presidential decree Aloko received an award for achieving an exceptional performance in government and for a paper on the affairs of the prosecutor. He also received an honorary Professorship degree in the affairs of the AGO and for successful prosecution by a Presidential decree.\nAloko is since 40 years married. His main place of residence is in Germany, Schleswig-Holstein. He is the father of two sons and one daughter.\n\nMohammad Ishaq Aloko has written several books. Some of them are: \n\n"}
{"id": "36726747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36726747", "title": "Ngata people", "text": "Ngata people\n\nNgata people are Bantus from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Central Africa.\n\nNgatas are mentioned under various names in various sources. These include the following ones: Ngatas, Wangata.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2975367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2975367", "title": "Nyaw people", "text": "Nyaw people\n\nThe Lao Nyaw, Thai Nyaw or Tai Yo (Thai/Isan: ไทญ้อ, , ) are an ethnic group of Thailand, Cambodia and Laos, scattered throughout the provinces of Isan such as Nong Khai, Sakon Nakhon, Nakhon Phanom, and parts of Bolikhamxai and Khammouan provinces of Laos. They are also referred to as simply \"Nyaw\" or \"Yaw\", depending on either the Lao, Isan, and Nyaw pronunciation, which all pronounce the initial consonant as , or the Thai pronunciation, which pronounces the initial consonant as .\n\nThe Tai Nyaw believe that they are descendants of people originally from the northernmost part of Laos and Tonkin or immigrants during Tai migrations. Whatever the case may be, their dialect most closely resembles the Lao dialects from the regions east of Luang Prabang. Legend has it descendants are from the old king of Laos, who migrated after the overthrow and was forced to leave and spread out to neighboring countries for refuge. The Nyaw believed their ancestors are the king's personal guards and extended family.\n\nThe Nyaw language is very similar to the Lao language, which is referred to as the Isan language in Thailand. It is most similar to the Phuthai language also spoken within the same regions. Most Nyaw are often also fluent in Thai and Lao.\n\nThe Tai Nyaw practise Theravada Buddhism, but have also maintained their original animist religion. Important to the Nyaw people is the tutelary spirit of the village, known in the dialect as ผู้เจ้า .\n\nIn Thailand this language group is increasingly becoming integrated into the mainstream Isan language. This is due in large part to a campaign by the Thai government to modernize all Thai people, as well as due to outside influences of television, internet and local radio broadcasts. Most younger members of this northeastern tribal group in Thailand prefer to be called Thai rather than by their traditional tribal group name.\n\nBelieved to be Nyaw indigenous headhunters who sought other tribes for bounty and sport, It was an honor to retrieve the heads of rival tribes as a trophy. Many traditional families still kept the severed skulls as charms and for use in Black Magic known as \"Kong Dee\". After the integration of Lao, Thai and Cambodian mainstream society the head hunts were deemed unacceptable.\n\n"}
{"id": "39214488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39214488", "title": "Other sex", "text": "Other sex\n\n\"Gender\" refers to social or cultural distinctions associated with being male or female. Scholars generally regard gender as a social construct—meaning that it does not exist naturally, but is instead a concept that is created by cultural and societal norms. \"Gender binary\" is the system of viewing gender as consisting solely of two, opposite categories, termed “male and female”, in which no other possibilities for gender or anatomy are believed to exist. This system is oppressive to anyone who defies their sex assigned at birth, but particularly those who are gender-variant or do not fit neatly into one of the two standard categories. Gender identity, one’s internal sense of being male, female, neither of these, both, or other genders, is something that everyone has, and not everyone identifies their gender as male or female.\n\nIt is important to note that sex, gender, and sexuality are not the same, and that one does not dictate the other. \"Sex\" is what you are assigned at birth, and is typically based on physical anatomy. \"Sexuality\", or sexual orientation, is a person's enduring physical, romantic, emotional, and other form of attraction to others.\n\nThere are many different ways to describe one’s gender. \"Trans Student Educational Resources\" (TSER) gives a breakdown of gender with defining the following terms;\n\nBigender: Refers to those who identify as two genders.\n\nCisgender/cis: Someone who exclusively identifies as their sex assigned at birth.\n\nGenderqueer/non-binary: An identity commonly used by people who do not identify within the gender binary. Those who identify as genderqueer may identify as neither male nor female, may see themselves as outside of or in between the binary gender boxes, or may simply feel restricted by gender labels.\n\nIntersex: Describing a person with a less common combination of hormones, socio-emotional, chromosomes, and anatomy that are used to assign sex at birth. This term is not interchangeable with or a synonym for transgender, although some intersex people do identify as transgender.\n\nQueer: A term for people of marginalized gender identities and sexual orientations who are not cisgender or heterosexual.\n\nTransgender/trans: Term for those who do not identify or exclusively identify with their sex assigned at birth.\n\nTranssexual: Term describing someone who undergoes or wants to undergo transition within the gender binary.\n\nIt is crucial to know what individuals choose to identify themselves as, and what pronouns they prefer others to use as well. Several terms, such as \"queer\", are used as slurs and may be offensive to some, while others may not mind it.\n\nGender norms are the socially acceptable ways of acting out gender, and are learned from birth. People learn what is expected of their gender from what their parents teach them, as well as what they pick up at school, through religious or cultural teachings, in the media, and various other social institutions. Many aspects of gender are socially constructed, particularly with regard to gender expression, which is closely monitored and reinforced by society. Many things in society are defined by gender—toys, colors, clothes and behaviors are just some of the more obvious examples. Through a combination of social conditioning and personal preference, by age three most children prefer activities and exhibit behaviors typically associated with their sex.\n"}
{"id": "473191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=473191", "title": "Picard language", "text": "Picard language\n\nPicard is a langues d'oïl dialect spoken in the northernmost part of France and southern Belgium. Administratively, the area where it is spoken is divided between the French Hauts-de-France region and the Belgian Wallonia along the border between the two countries – its traditional core being the districts of Tournai and Mons, commonly referred to as Walloon Picardy.\n\nThe Picard language group is known by several different names. Residents of Picardy simply call it picard, but it is more commonly known as chti or chtimi in the more populated Nord-Pas-de-Calais (Romance Flanders around the metropolis of Lille and Douai, and northeast Artois around Béthune and Lens). It is also named rouchi around Valenciennes; or simply as patois by Northerners in general. Linguists group all of them under the name \"Picard\". In general, the variety spoken in Picardy is understood by speakers in Nord-Pas-de-Calais and vice versa.\n\nToday, Picard is usually classified as merely a dialect of French as spoken in France by French linguists, rather than as a standalone language or distinct dialect in its own right, primarily due to French's heavy influence over the centuries when both French (Francien dialect) and Picard were developing from a common protolanguage, Vulgar Latin. It is also seen as such by many of its speakers.\n\nBelgium's French Community gave full official recognition to Picard as a regional language along with Walloon, \"Gaumais\" (Lorraine), Champenois (Champagne) and Lorraine German in its 1990 decree. The French government has not followed suit and has not recognized Picard as an official regional language (in line with its policy of linguistic unity, which allows for only one official language in France), but some reports have recognized Picard as a language distinct from French.\n\nA 1999 report by Bernard Cerquiglini, the director of the \"\" (National Institute of the French Language) stated:\n\nThe gap has continued to widen between French and the varieties of \"langues d'oïl\", which today we would call \"French dialects\"; Franc-comtois, Walloon, Picard, Norman, Gallo, Poitevin, Saintongeais, Bourguignon-morvandiau, Lorrain must be accepted among the regional languages of France; by placing them on the list [of French regional languages], they will be known from then on as \"langues d'oïl\".\n\nEven if it has no official status as a language in France, Picard, along with all the other languages spoken in France, benefits from actions led by the Culture Minister's General Commission on the French Language and the Languages of France (\"la Délégation générale à la langue française et aux langues de France\").\n\nPicard, like French, is one of the \"langues d'oïl\" and belongs to the Gallo-Roman family of languages. It consists of all the varieties used for writing () in the north of France from before 1000 (in the south of France at that time the Occitan language was used). Often, the \"langues d'oïl\" are referred to simply as Old French.\n\nPicard is phonetically quite different from the North-central \"langues d'oïl\", which evolved into modern French. Among the most notable traits, the evolution in Picard towards palatalization is less marked than in the central \"langues d'oïl\" in which it is particularly striking; or before , tonic and , as well as in front of tonic and (the open of the French \"porte\") in central Old French but not in Picard:\n\n\nThe effects of palatalization can be summarised as this:\n\nThere are striking differences, such as Picard \"cachier\" ('to hunt') ~ Old French \"chacier\", which later took the modern French form of \"chasser\".\n\nBecause of the proximity of Paris to the northernmost regions of France, French (that is, the languages that were spoken in and around Paris) greatly influenced Picard and vice versa. The closeness between Picard and French made the former not always be recognised as a language in its own right, but rather a \"distortion of French\" as it is often viewed.\n\nPicard includes a variety of very closely related dialects. It is difficult to list them all accurately in the absence of specific studies on the dialectical variations, but these varieties can probably \"provisionally\" be distinguished \n\nThe varieties are defined by specific phonetic, morphological and lexical traits and sometimes by a distinctive literary tradition.\n\nThe majority of Picard words derive from Vulgar Latin.\n\nMany words are very similar to French, but a large number are totally specific to Picard—principally terms relating to mining or farming.\n\nHere are several typical phrases in Picard, accompanied by French and English translations:\n\nCardinal numbers in Picard from 1 to 20 are as follows:\n\n\nPicard is not taught in French schools (apart from a few one-off and isolated courses) and is generally only spoken among friends or family members. It has nevertheless been the object of scholarly research at universities in Lille and Amiens, as well as at Indiana University. Since people are now able to move around France more easily than in past centuries, the different varieties of Picard are converging and becoming more similar. In its daily use, Picard is tending to lose its distinctive features and may be confused with regional French. At the same time, even though most Northerners can understand Picard today, fewer and fewer are able to speak it, and people who speak Picard as their first language are increasingly rare, particularly under 50.\n\nThe 2008 film \"Bienvenue chez les Ch'tis\", starring comedian Dany Boon, deals with Ch'ti language and culture and the perceptions of the region by outsiders.\n\nToday Picard is primarily a spoken language, but in the medieval period, there is a wealth of literary texts in Picard. However, Picard was not able to compete with French and was slowly reduced to the status of a regional language.\n\nA more recent body of Picard literature, written during the last two centuries, also exists. Modern written Picard is generally a transcription of the spoken language. For that reason, words are often spelled in a variety of different ways (in the same way that English and French were before they were standardised).\n\nOne system of spelling for Picard words is very similar to that of French. It is undoubtedly the easiest for French speakers to understand but can also contribute the stereotype that Picard is only a corruption of French rather than a language in its own right.\n\nVarious spelling methods have been proposed since the 1960s to offset the disadvantage and to give Picard a visual identity that is distinct from French. There is now a consensus, at least between universities, in favor of the written form known as Feller-Carton (based on the Walloon spelling system, which was developed by Jules Feller, and adapted for Picard by Professor Fernand Carton).\n\nPicard, although primarily a spoken language, has a body of written literature: poetry, songs (\"P'tit quinquin\" for example), comic books, etc.\n\nA number of dictionaries and \"patois\" guides also exist (for French speakers):\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1578488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1578488", "title": "Scullery maid", "text": "Scullery maid\n\nIn great houses, scullery maids were the lowest-ranked and often the youngest of the female domestic servants and acted as assistant to a kitchen maid.\n\nThe scullery maid reported (through the kitchen maid) to the cook or chef. Along with the junior kitchen-maid, the scullery maid did not eat at the communal servants' dining hall table, but in the kitchen in order to keep an eye on the food that was still cooking.\n\nDuties of the scullery maid included the most physical and demanding tasks in the kitchen such as cleaning and scouring the floor, stoves, sinks, pots, and dishes. After scouring the plates in the scullery, she would leave them on racks to dry. The scullery maid also assisted in cleaning vegetables, plucking fowl, and scaling fish.\n\nThe duties of the scullery-maid are to assist the cook; to keep the scullery clean, and all the metallic as well as earthenware kitchen utensils.\n\nThe position of scullery-maid is not, of course, one of high rank, nor is the payment for her services large. But if she be fortunate enough to have over her a good kitchen-maid and clever cook, she may very soon learn to perform various little duties connected with cooking operations, which may be of considerable service in fitting her for a more responsible place. Now, it will be doubtless thought by the majority of our readers, that the fascinations connected with the position of the scullery-maid, are not so great as to induce many people to leave a comfortable home in order to work in a scullery.\n\n—Mrs. Beeton, \"The Book of Household Management\", published 1861\n\nThe scullery maid provided hot water for the scullery, kitchen tasks, and household. In addition to her other tasks, the scullery maid had to keep the scullery clean by clearing away meat and vegetable garbage, scrubbing work tables, and swilling the floors. The water was carried through a drain outside the house. Scullery maids would rarely have handled fine china, stemware, crystal or plate silver; these are cleaned by housemaids and footmen. Before the advent of central heating systems, scullery maids were required to light the fires on the kitchen stove and supply hot water for tea and washing. She performed these tasks in the morning before the cook came down to the kitchens.\n\nIn a household with no between maid, the scullery maid may also have waited on staff in the Servants' hall, although this may have been assigned to another maid or a junior footman. In the days before the indoor water closet she may have been required to empty and clean the servants' chamber pots as well.\n\nThis work has, in modern (i.e. the nineteenth century) times, primarily been performed by women, but in medieval households female domestics were relatively rare. A male servant performing the tasks described above would be called a scullion. In 1386, when the English Parliament requested the removal of certain of Richard II's ministers, the king infamously responded that he would not dismiss as much as a scullion from his kitchen at parliament's request.\n\nThe root of the word scullery is the 1300–50 French word \"escuelerie\" (pronounced \"squillerye\" < equivalent to \"escuele\" -dish (< L scutella, dim. of scutra pan) + \"rie\" -ry.\n\n"}
{"id": "21171721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21171721", "title": "Sea level rise", "text": "Sea level rise\n\nAt least since 1880, the average global sea level has been rising, with about an rise from 1897 to 1997. More precise satellite based data show about a accelerating rise in sea level from 1993 to 2017. This is due mostly to anthropogenic global warming that is driving the thermal expansion of seawater while melting land-based ice sheets and glaciers. This trend is expected to accelerate during the 21st century.\n\nProjecting future sea level has always been challenging, due to our imperfect understanding of many aspects of the climate system. As climate research leads to improved computer models, projections have consistently increased. For example, in 2007 the high end of Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) projections through 2099 was less than , but in their 2014 report the high end was considered to be about . A number of later studies have concluded that rise this century is \"physically plausible\". The contributions to sea level rise since 1993, based on 2018 figures, divide into ocean thermal expansion (42%), melting of temperate glaciers (21%), Greenland (15%) and Antarctica (8%).\n\nSea level rise will not be the same at every location on earth, with some locations even getting a drop in sea levels. Local factors include tectonic effects, and subsidence of the land, tides, currents and storms. Sea level rise is expected to continue for centuries. Because of long response times for parts of the climate system, it has been estimated that we are committed to a sea-level rise of approximately within the next 2,000 years for each Celsius degree of temperature rise.\n\nSea level rises can considerably influence human populations in coastal and island regions and natural environments like marine ecosystems. Widespread coastal flooding would be expected if several degrees of warming is sustained for millennia. For example, sustained global warming of more than 2 C° relative to pre-industrial levels could lead to eventual sea level rise of about .\n\nSocieties can respond to sea level rise in three different ways: retreat, accommodate and protect. Sometimes these adaptation strategies go hand in hand, but at other times choices have to be made between different strategies. Ecosystems that adapt to rising sea levels by moving inland might not always be able to do so, due to natural or man made barriers.\n\nUnderstanding past sea level is important for the analysis of current and future changes. In the recent geological past changes in land ice and thermal expansion from increased temperatures are the dominant reasons of sea level rise. The last time the Earth was 2 °C warmer than the pre-industrial temperatures, sea levels were at least higher than present. This was during the last interglacial, when the earth warming was caused by slow changes in the orbital forcing. The warming was sustained over a period of thousands of years and the magnitude of the rise in sea level implied a large contribution from the Antarctic and Greenland ice sheets.\n\nSince the last glacial maximum about 20,000 years ago, the sea level has risen by more than , with rates varying from less than a mm/year to 40+ mm/year, as a result of melting ice sheets over Canada and Eurasia. Rapid disintegration of ice sheets led to so called 'meltwater pulses', periods during which sea level rose rapidly. The rate of rise started to slow down 8.2 thousand years before present; the sea level was almost constant in the last 2,500 years, before the recent rising trend starting approximately in 1850.\n\nTo get precise measurements for sea level, researchers studying the state of frozen water and the ocean on our planet factor in ongoing deformations of the solid Earth, in particular due to landmasses still rising from past ice masses retreating. Additionally, Earth gravitation and rotation have to be accounted for. These factors are dependent on the different layers which make up the Earth (lithosphere, asthenosphere), and the order in which land-based ice melts. Because the involved processes, which are collectively known as the \"Sea-level equation\", change very slowly, on time scales of thousands of years, they are considered to be constant.\n\nSince the 1992 launch of TOPEX/Poseidon, altimetric satellites have been recording the change in sea level. Those satellites can measure the hills and valleys in the sea caused by currents and detect trends in their height. To measure the distance to the sea surface, the satellite sends a microwave pulse to the ocean's surface and records the time it takes to return. A microwave radiometer corrects any delay that may be caused by water vapor in the atmosphere. Combining this data with the precise location of the spacecraft makes it possible to determine sea-surface height to within a few centimeters (about one inch). Current rates of sea level rise from satellite altimetry have been estimated to be per year for the period 1993–2017. Earlier satellite measurements were previously at odds with tide gauge measurements. A small calibration error for the Topex/Poseidon satellite discovered in 2015 was identified as the cause of this mismatch. It had caused a slight overestimation of the 1992–2005 sea levels, which masked the ongoing sea level rise acceleration.\n\nWith satellites it is possible to capture regional variations in sea level rise well. In the 1993–2012 period for instance, sea level rose substantially in the western tropical Pacific. The sharp rise in this area has been linked to increasing trade winds, which occur when the Pacific Decadal Oscillation (PDO) and the El Niño–Southern Oscillation (ENSO) change from one state to the other. The PDO is a basin-wide climate pattern consisting of two phases, each commonly lasting 10 to 30 years, while the ENSO has a shorter period of 2 to 7 years.\n\nAnother important source of sea-level observations comes from the global network of tide gauges. In contrast to the satellite record, this record has a lot of spatial and temporal gaps. Coverage of tide gauges started primarily in the Northern Hemisphere, with data for the Southern Hemisphere remained scarce up to the 1970s. The longest running sea-level measurements, NAP or Amsterdam Ordnance Datum established in 1675, are recorded in Amsterdam, the Netherlands. In Australia, record collection is also quite extensive, including measurements by an amateur meteorologist beginning in 1837 and measurements taken from a sea-level benchmark struck on a small cliff on the Isle of the Dead near the Port Arthur convict settlement in 1841.\n\nThis network was used, in combination with satellite altimeter data, to establish that global mean sea-level rose between 1870 and 2004 at an average rate of about 1.44 mm/yr (1.7 mm/yr during the 20th century). This is an important confirmation of climate change simulations, predicting that SLR will accelerate in response to global warming. In Australia, data collected by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO) show the current global mean sea level trend to be per year, a doubling of the rate during the 20th century.\n\nSome regional differences are also visible in the tide gauge data. Some of the recorded regional differences are due to differences in the actual sea level, while other are due to vertical land movements. In the United States for instance, considerable variation is found because some land areas are rising and some are sinking. Over the past 100 years, the rate of sea level rise varied from an increase of about per year along the Louisiana Coast due to land sinking, to a drop of a few inches per decade in parts of Alaska due to post-glacial rebound. The rate of sea level rise increased during the 1993–2003 period compared with the longer-term average (1961–2003), although it is unclear whether the faster rate reflected a short-term variation or an increase in the long-term trend.\n\nThere are three main contributions to sea level rise. Oceans expand if they are warming, glaciers at high altitudes melt and the total mass of ice sheets decreases. Sea level rise in the last 150 years was dominated by retreat of glaciers and expansion of the ocean, but the contributions of the two large ice sheets (Greenland and Antarctica) is expected to increase in the 21st century. The ice sheets store most of the land ice (∼99.5%), with a sea-level equivalent (SLE) of for Greenland and for Antarctica.\n\nEach year about of precipitation (liquid equivalent) falls on the ice sheets in Antarctica and Greenland, mostly as snow, which accumulates and over time forms glacial ice. Much of this precipitation began as water vapor evaporated from the ocean surface. To a first approximation, the same amount of water appeared to return to the ocean in icebergs and from ice melting at the edges. Scientists previously had estimated which is greater, ice going in or coming out, called the glacier mass balance, important because a nonzero balance causes changes in global sea level. The rate of ice loss is accelerating.\n\nIn terms of heat content, it is the world ocean that dominates the atmospheric climate. The oceans store more than 90% of the heat in Earth's climate system and act as a buffer against the effects of climate change. For instance, an average temperature increase of the entire world ocean by 0.01 °C may seem small, but in fact it represents a very large increase in heat content. If all the heat associated with this anomaly was instantaneously transferred to the entire global atmosphere it would increase the average temperature of the atmosphere by approximately 10 °C. Thus, a small change in the mean temperature of the ocean represents a very large change in the total heat content of the climate system. Of course, when the ocean gains heat the water expands and this represents a component of global sea-level rise.\n\nThe thermal expansion of water increases with temperature and pressure of the water. Hence, cold Arctic Ocean water will expand less for a given increase in temperature compared to warm tropical water. Because different climate models have slightly different patterns of ocean heating, they do not agree fully on the predictions for the contribution of ocean heating on sea level rise.\n\nThe large volume of ice on the Antarctic continent stores around 70% of the world's fresh water. The Antarctic ice sheet mass balance is affected by snowfall accumulations, and ice discharge along the periphery. Under the influence of global warming, melt at the base of the ice sheet increases. Simultaneously, the capacity of the atmosphere to carry precipitation increases with temperature so that precipitation, in the form of snowfall, increases. Furthermore, the additional snowfall causes increased ice flow which leads to further loss of ice.\n\nDifferent satellite methods for measuring ice mass and change are in good agreement, and combining methods leads to more certainty how the East Antarctic Ice Sheet, the West Antarctic Ice Sheet, and the Antarctic Peninsula evolve. A 2018 systematic review study estimated that ice loss across the entire continent was 43 gigatons (Gt) per year on average during the period from 1992 to 2002, but has accelerated to an average of 220 Gt per year during the five years from 2012 to 2017. Most of the melt comes from the West Antarctic Ice Sheet, but the Antarctic Peninsula also positively contributes. The East Antarctic Ice Sheet does not contribute much and scientists are not able to determine whether it gains or loses mass. The sea-level budget from Antarctica has been estimated to be per year from 1993–2005, and per year from 2005 to 2015. All datasets generally show an acceleration of mass loss from the Antarctic ice-sheet, but with year-to-year variations.\n\nThe world's largest potential source of sea level rise is the East Antarctic Ice Sheet, which holds enough ice to raise global sea levels by 53.3 m. Satellite observations suggest the overall mass balance of the East Antarctic Ice Sheet was relatively steady or slightly positive for much of the period from 1992–2017, with the notable exception of Totten Glacier, which has steadily lost mass in recent decades in response to ocean warming and possibly a reduction in local sea ice cover. Totten Glacier is the primary outlet of the Aurora Subglacial Basin, which together with the Wilkes Basin are the two major ice reservoirs in East Antarctica exposed to potential rapid collapse through marine ice sheet instability.\n\nWest Antarctica is currently experiencing a net outflow of glacial ice, which will increase global sea level over time. A review of the scientific studies looking at data from 1992 to 2017 suggests an increase in the melt from around 53 ± 29 Gt of ice per year to 159 ± 26 Gt. Significant acceleration of outflow glaciers in the Amundsen Sea Embayment may have contributed to this increase. The data showed that the Amundsen Sea sector of the West Antarctic Ice Sheet was discharging of ice every year, which was 60% more than the precipitation accumulation in the catchment areas. This alone was sufficient to raise the sea level at per year. Further, thinning rates for the glaciers studied in 2002–2003 had increased over the values measured in the early 1990s.\n\nAnnual temperatures based on Byrd Station (central West Antarctica) from 1958 to 2010 increased linear by 2.4 ± 1.2 °C, the study authors note, \"West Antarctica as one of the fastest-warming regions globally. In contrast to previous studies, we report statistically significant warming [...] particularly in December–January, the peak of the melting season. A continued rise in summer temperatures could lead to more frequent and extensive episodes of surface melting of the West Antarctic Ice Sheet.\"\nTwo types of instability are at play in West Antarctica. The first one is the Marine Ice Sheet Instability, the bedrock on which parts of the ice sheet rest is moving deeper inland. This means that when a part of the ice sheet melts, a thicker part of the ice sheet is exposed, which may lead to additional ice loss. Secondly, melting of the ice shelfs, the floating extensions of the ice sheet, leads to a process named the Marine Ice Cliff Instability\".\" Because they function as a buttress to the ice sheet, their melt leads to additional ice flow. Melt of ice shelfs is accelerated when surface melt creates crevasses and these crevasses cause fracturing.\n\nSince most of the bedrock underlying the West Antarctic Ice Sheet lies well below sea level and ocean waters are warming, the ice sheet is becoming less stable. A rapid collapse of West Antarctic Ice Sheet could raise sea level by at an unknown rate.\n\nThe Thwaites and Pine Island glaciers have been identified to be potentially prone to these processes, since both glaciers bedrock topography gets deeper farther inland, exposing them to more warm water intrusion at the grounding line, and with the continued melt, retreat, eventually raising global sea levels.\n\nMost ice on Greenland is part of the Greenland ice sheet which rises to an average of . The rest of the ice on Greenland is part of isolated glaciers and ice caps.\n\nThe sources contributing to sea level rise from Greenland are from ice sheet melting (70%) and from glacier calving (30%). Dust, soot, and microbes and algae living on parts of the ice sheet further enhance melting by darkening its surface and thus absorbing more thermal radiation; these regions grew by 12% between 2000 and 2012, and are likely to expand further. Estimates on future contribution to sea level rise from Greenland range from , for the year 2100.\n\nSome of Greenland's largest outlet glaciers, such as Jakobshavn Isbræ and Kangerlussuaq Glacier have seen an acceleration in how fast they are flowing into the ocean. It was shown that this acceleration of outlet glaciers had mostly taken place on the Southern part of Greenland (66 N in 1996), but had spread further north (70 N) in 2005.\n\nThe contribution of the Greenland ice sheet on sea level over the next couple of centuries can be very high due to a self-reinforcing cycle (a so-called positive feedback). After an initial period of melting, the height of the ice sheet will have lowered. As air temperature increases closer to the sea surface, more melt starts to occur. This melting may further be accelerated because the color of ice is darker while it is melting. There is a threshold in surface warming beyond which a partial or near-complete melting of the Greenland ice sheet occurs. Different research has put this threshold value as low as 1.0 °C, and definitely 4.0 °C, above pre-industrial temperatures.\n\nAccounting for the Greenland ice sheet, its peripheral glaciers and ice caps, contributions to current sea level rise have been estimated to be 43%. A study published in 2017, concluded that Greenland’s glaciers and ice caps crossed an irreversible tipping point in 1997, and will continue to melt. Results based on the existing literature found estimates for the Greenland ice sheet and its glaciers and ice caps, they were the largest contributor to the observed sea level rise from \"land ice\" sources (excluding thermal expansion), combined accounting for 71 percent, or 1.32 mm per year during the 2012–2016 period.\n\nMountain glaciers include only a minor fraction of all water bound up in glaciers ice (<1%), compared to a bigger portion in Greenland and Antarctica (99%). Still, mountain glaciers have contributed appreciably to historical sea level rise and are set to contribute a smaller, but still significant fraction of sea level rise in the 21st century. The roughly 200,000 glaciers on earth are spread out across all continents. Different glaciers respond differently to increasing temperatures. For instance, valley glaciers that have a shallow slope already retreat under mild warming. Every glacier has a height above which there is net gain in mass and under which the glacier loses mass. If that height changes a bit, this has large consequences for glaciers with a shallow slope. A large set of glaciers drain into the ocean and ice loss can therefore increase when ocean temperatures increase.\n\nObservational and modelling studies of mass loss from glaciers and ice caps indicate a contribution to sea-level rise of 0.2–0.4 mm/yr, averaged over the 20th century. Over the 21st century, this is expected to rise, with glaciers contributing to global sea levels. Glaciers contributed around 40% to sea-level rise during the 20th century, with estimates for the 21st century of around 30%.\n\nSea ice melt has a very small contribution to global sea level rise. According to Archimedes' principle, sea ice that melts does not take up more volume than it had in the form of sea ice or icebergs. However, this only holds true in the case that the salinity of the sea ice and sea water are equal. This assumption is not valid in the case of melting sea ice, where the sea ice contains less salt than sea water. Fresh water has a larger volume compared to salt water, and as such there can be a small contribution of sea ice melt. In the case that all floating ice shelves and icebergs melt, the sea levels would rise only by about .\n\nHumans impact how much water is stored on land. Building dams prevents large masses of water from flowing into the sea and therefore increases the storage of water on land. On the other hand humans extract water from lakes, wetlands and underground reservoirs for food production leading to rising seas. Furthermore, the hydrological cycle is influenced by climate change and deforestation, which can lead to further positive and negative contributions to sea level rise. In the 20th century, these processes roughly balanced, but dam building has slowed down and is expected to stay low for the 21st century.\n\nThere are broadly two ways of modelling sea level rise and making future projections. On the one hand, scientists use process-based modelling, where all relevant and well-understood physical processes are included in a physical model. An ice-sheet model is used to calculate the contributions of ice sheets and a general circulation model is used to compute the rising sea temperature and its expansion. A disadvantage of this method is that not all relevant processes might be understood to a sufficient level. Alternatively, some scientist use semi-empirical techniques that use geological data from the past to determine likely sea level responses to a warming world in addition to some basic physical modelling. Semi-empiral modelling relies on sophisticated statistical techniques. This type of modelling was partially motivated by the fact that in the 2007 IPCC report, most physical models underestimated the amount of sea level rise compared to observations.\n\nThe Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has made predictions of sea level changes to the year 2100, using the available scientific literature. Their projections are based on the contributors to sea level rise, but do exclude some processes that are less understood. In the case of rapid cuts in emission (the so-called RCP2.6 scenario), the IPCC deem it likely that the sea level will rise to with a 67% confidence interval. The higher value should thus not be read as an upper limit, which can be substantially higher. For a scenario with very high emissions, the IPCC project the sea level to rise to . Compared to the previous IPCC estimate, more sea level rise is expected for similar scenarios.\n\nProjections assessed by the US National Research Council (2010) suggest possible sea level rise over the 21st century of between . The NRC describes the IPCC projections as \"conservative\". In 2011, Rignot and others projected a rise of by 2050. Their projection included increased contributions from the Antarctic and Greenland ice sheets. Use of two completely different approaches reinforced the Rignot projection. Other estimates suggest that for the same period, global mean sea level could rise by , relative to the mean sea level in 1992.\n\nThe Third National Climate Assessment (NCA), released May 6, 2014, projected a sea level rise of by 2100. Decision makers who are particularly susceptible to risk may wish to use a wider range of scenarios from by 2100.\n\nA 2016 study concluded that based on past climate change data, sea level rise could accelerate exponentially in the coming decades, with a doubling time of 10, 20 or 40 years, respectively, raising the ocean by several meters, in 50, 100 or 200 years. However, Greg Holland from the National Center for Atmospheric Research, who reviewed the study, noted: “There is no doubt that the sea level rise, within the IPCC, is a very conservative number, so the truth lies somewhere between IPCC and Jim\".\"”\n\nOne 2017 study's scenario, assuming high fossil fuel use for combustion and strong economic growth during this century, projects sea level rise of up to on average — and an extreme scenario with as much as , by 2100. This could mean rapid sea level rise of up to 19 millimeters per year by the end of the century. The study also concluded that the Paris climate agreement emissions scenario, if met, would result in a median of sea level rise by 2100.\n\nEstimates of future sea level were also produced in the 20th century. For instance, Hansen et al. 1981, published the study \"Climate impact of increasing atmospheric carbon dioxide\", and predicted that anthropogenic carbon dioxide warming and its potential effects on climate in the 21st century could cause a sea level rise of , from melting of the West Antarctic ice-sheet alone.\n\nThere is a widespread consensus that substantial long-term sea-level rise will continue for centuries to come even if the temperature stabilizes. IPCC AR4 estimated that at least a partial deglaciation of the Greenland ice sheet, and possibly the West Antarctic ice sheet, would occur given a global average temperature increase of 1–4 °C (relative to temperatures over the years 1990–2000). This estimate was given about a 50% chance of being correct. The estimated timescale was centuries to millennia, and would contribute or more to sea levels over this period.\n\nMelting of the Greenland ice sheet could contribute an additional over many thousands of years. It has been estimated that we are already committed to a sea-level rise of approximately for each degree of temperature rise within the next 2,000 years. Warming beyond the 2 °C target would potentially lead to rates of sea-level rise dominated by ice loss from Antarctica. Continued carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuel sources could cause additional tens of metres of sea level rise, over the next millennia, and ultimately melt the entire Antarctic ice sheet, causing about of sea level rise.\n\nAfter 500 years, sea-level rise from thermal expansion alone may have reached only half of its eventual level, which models suggest may lie within ranges of .\n\nRising sea levels will cause flooding and may erase entire cities. In a study published by \"Nature\", the entire state of Delaware could be completely wiped out by 2500.\n\nSubsidence, isostatic rebound, gravitational effects of changing ice masses, and spatially varying patterns of warming lead to differences in sea level rise around the globe.\n\nMany ports, urban conglomerations, and agricultural regions are built on river deltas, where subsidence of land contributes to a substantially increased \"effective\" sea level rise. This is caused by both unsustainable extraction of groundwater (in some places also by extraction of oil and gas), and by levees and other flood management practices that prevent accumulation of sediments from compensating for the natural settling of deltaic soils. In many deltas, this results in subsidence ranging from several millimeters per year up to possibly 25 centimeters per year in parts of the Ciliwung delta (Jakarta). Total anthropogenic-caused subsidence in the Rhine-Meuse-Scheldt delta (Netherlands) is estimated at , over in urban areas of the Mississippi River Delta (New Orleans), and over in the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta.\n\nThe Atlantic is set to warm at a faster pace than the Pacific. This has consequences for Europe and the U.S. East Coast, which may receive a sea level rise 3–4 times the global average. The downturn of the Atlantic meridional overturning circulation (AMOC) has been also tied to extreme regional sea level rise on the US Northeast Coast.\n\nCurrent and future climate change is set to have a number of impacts, particularly on coastal systems. Such impacts include increased coastal erosion, higher storm-surge flooding, inhibition of primary production processes, more extensive coastal inundation, changes in surface water quality and groundwater characteristics, increased loss of property and coastal habitats, increased flood risk and potential loss of life, loss of non-monetary cultural resources and values, impacts on agriculture and aquaculture through decline in soil and water quality, and loss of tourism, recreation, and transportation functions.\n\nMany of these impacts are detrimental — especially for the three-quarters of the world's poor who depend on agriculture systems. Owing to the great diversity of coastal environments; regional and local differences in projected relative sea level and climate changes; and differences in the resilience and adaptive capacity of ecosystems, sectors, and countries, the impacts will be highly variable in time and space. River deltas and small island states are particularly vulnerable to sea-level rise.\n\nGlobally tens of millions of people will be displaced in the latter decades of the century if greenhouse gases are not reduced drastically. Many coastal areas have large population growth, which results in more people at risk from sea level rise. The rising seas pose both a direct risk: unprotected homes can be flooded, and indirect threats of higher storm surges, tsunamis and king tides. Asia has the largest population at risk from sea level with countries such as Bangladesh, China, India, Indonesia, and Vietnam having very densely populated coastal areas. The effects of displacement are very dependent on how successful governments will be in implementing defenses against the rising sea, with concerns for the poorerst countries such as sub-Saharan countries and island nations.\n\nTen per cent of the world's population live in coastal areas that are less than above sea level. Furthermore, two thirds of the world's cities with over five million people are located in these low-lying coastal areas. Future sea level rise could lead to potentially catastrophic difficulties for shore-based communities in the next centuries: for example, many major cities such as Venice, London, New Orleans, and New York City already need storm-surge defenses, and will need more if the sea level rises; they also face issues such as subsidence. The Egyptian city Alexandria faces a similar situation, where hundreds of thousands people living in the low-lying areas may already have to be relocated in the coming decade. However, modest increases in sea level are likely to be offset when cities adapt by constructing sea walls or through relocating. Miami has been listed as \"the number-one most vulnerable city worldwide\" in terms of potential damage to property from storm-related flooding and sea-level rise.\n\nRising seas has also been tied to an increased risk from tsunamis, potentially affecting coastal cities in the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans.\n\nFood production in coastal areas is affected by rising sea levels as well. Due to flooding and salt water intrusion into the soil, the salinity of agricultural lands near the sea increases, posing problems for crops that are not salt-resistant. Furthermore, salt intrusion in fresh irrigation water poses a second problem for crops that are irrigated. Newly developed salt-resistant crop variants are currently more expensive than the crops they are set to replace. The farmland in the Nile Delta is affected by salt water flooding, and there is now more salt in the soil and irrigation water in the Red River Delta and the Mekong Delta in Vietnam. Bangladesh and China are affected in a similar way, particularly their rice production.\n\nAtolls and low-lying coastal areas on islands are particularly vulnerable to sea level rise. Possible impacts include coastal erosion, floodings and salt intrusion into soils and freshwater. It is difficult to assess how much of past erosion and floods have been caused by sea level change, compared to other environmental events such as hurricanes. Adaptation to sea level rise is costly for small island nation as a large portion of their population lives in areas that are at risk. \nMaldives, Tuvalu, and other low-lying countries are among the areas that are at the highest level of risk. At current rates, sea level would be high enough to make the Maldives uninhabitable by 2100. Geomorphological events such as storms tend to have larger impacts on reef island than sea level rise, for instance at one of the Marshall Islands. These effects include the immediate erosion and subsequent regrowth process that may vary in length from decades to centuries, even resulting in land areas larger than pre-storm values. With an expected rise in the frequency and intensity of storms, they may become more significant in determining island shape and size than sea level rise. Five of the Solomon Islands have disappeared due to the combined effects of sea level rise and stronger trade winds that were pushing water into the Western Pacific.\n\nIn the case all islands of an island nation become uninhabitable or completely submerged by the sea, the states themselves would also become dissolved. Once this happens, all rights on the surrounding area (sea) are removed. This area can be huge as rights extend to a radius of around the entire island state. Any resources, such as fossil oil, minerals and metals, within this area can be freely dug up by anyone and sold without needing to pay any commission to the (now dissolved) island state.\n\nCoastal ecosystems are facing drastic changes as a consequence of rising sea levels. Many systems might ultimately be lost when sea levels rise too much or too fast. Some ecosystems can move land inward with the high-water mark, but many are prevented from migrating due to natural or man-made barriers. This 'coastal squeeze' could result in the loss of habitats such as mudflats and marshes. Mangroves and tidal marshes adjust to rising sea levels by building vertically using accumulated sediment and organic matter. If sea level rise is too rapid, they will not be able to keep up and will instead be submerged. As both ecosystems protect against storm surges, waves and tsunamis, losing them makes the effects of sea level rise worse. Human activities, such as dam building, may restrict sediment supplies to wetlands, and thereby prevent natural adaptation processes. The loss of some tidal marshes is unavoidable as a consequence. \n\nWhen seawater reaches inland, problems related to contaminated soils may occur. Also, fish, birds, and coastal plants could lose parts of their habitat. Coral, important for bird and fish life, needs to grow vertically to remain close to the sea surface in order to get enough energy from sunlight. It has so far been able to keep up the vertical growth with the rising seas, but might not be able to do so in the future. In 2016, it was reported that the Bramble Cay melomys, which lived on a Great Barrier Reef island, had probably become extinct because of inundation due to sea level rises.\n\nAdaptation options to sea level rise can be broadly classified into \"retreat, accommodate\" and \"protect\". Retreating is moving people and infrastructure to less exposed areas and preventing further development in areas that are at risk. This type of adaptation is potentially disruptive, as displacement of people might lead to tensions. Accommodation options are measurements that make societies more flexible to sea level rise. Examples are the cultivation of food crops that tolerate a high salt content in the soil and making new building standards which require building to be built higher and have less damage in the case a flood does occur. Finally, areas can be protected by the construction of dams, dikes and by improving natural defenses.\n\nThese adaptation options can be further divided into \"hard\" and \"soft\". Hard adaptation relies mostly on capital-intensive human-built infrastructure and involves large-scale changes to human societies and ecological systems. Because of its large scale, it is often not flexible. Soft adaptation involves strengthening natural defenses and adaptation strategies in local communities and the use of simple and modular technology, which can be locally owned. The two types of adaptation might be complementary or mutually exclusive. The building of a dike (hard adaptation) for instance destroys the natural dune system and dune nourishment will not be possible anymore.\n\nMany countries are developing concrete plans for adaptation. An example is the extension of the Dutch Delta Works. In 2008, the Dutch \"Delta Commission\", advised in a report that the Netherlands would need a massive new building program to strengthen the country's water defenses against the anticipated effects of global warming for the next 190 years. This included drawing up worst-case plans for evacuations. The plan also included more than €100 billion (US$ billion) in new spending through to the year 2100 to implement precautionary measures, such as broadening coastal dunes and strengthening sea and river dikes. The commission said the country must plan for a rise in the North Sea up to by 2100 and plan for a 2-4 m rise by 2200. About a quarter of the Netherlands lies beneath sea level, while more than 50% of the nation's area would be inundated by tidal floods if it did not have an extensive levee system.\n\nThe New York City Panel on Climate Change (NPCC) is an effort to prepare the New York City area for climate change. Miami Beach is spending $500 million from 2015 to 2020 to address sea-level rise. Actions include a pump drainage system, and raising of roadways and sidewalks. U.S. coastal cities also conduct so called \"beach nourishment\", also known as \"beach replenishment\", where new beach sand is trucked in and added.\n\nOptions that have been proposed to assist island nations to adapt to rising sea level include abandoning islands, building dikes, and \"building upwards.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20652025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20652025", "title": "Slavic name suffixes", "text": "Slavic name suffixes\n\nA Slavic name suffix is a common way of forming patronymics, family names, and pet names in the Slavic languages (also called the Slavonic languages). Many, if not most, Slavic last names are formed by adding possessive and other suffixes to given names and other words. Most Slavic surnames have suffixes which are found in varying degrees over the different nations. Some surnames are not formed in this way, including names of non-Slavic origin. \n\nNote: the following list does not take regional spelling variations into account.\n\nAn example using an occupation is \"kovač\", \"koval\" or \"kowal\", which means blacksmith. It is the root of the names Kovačević, Kovačić, Kowalski, Kowalchuk, Kowalczyk, Kovalenko, Kovalyov, and Kovalev. All mean \"descendant of a blacksmith\".\n\nThe given name Petr or Petro (equivalent to Peter) can become Petrov, Petriv, Petriw, Petrovsky, Petrovich, and Petric. All mean \"descendant of Peter\". This is similar to the use of \"-son\" or \"-sen\" in Germanic languages.\n\nIn East Slavic languages (Belarusian, Russian, Rusyn, and Ukrainian) the same system of name suffixes can be used to express several meanings. One of the most common is the patronymic. Instead of a secondary \"middle\" given name, people identify themselves with their given and family name and patronymic, a name based on their father's given name. If a man gives his full name as Boris \"Vladimirovich\" Kuznetsov, then his father's name must have been Vladimir: Vladimirovich in this case literally means \"Vladimir's son\".\n\nSimilarly, many suffixes can be attached to express affection or informality (in linguistics, called a diminutive). For example, calling a boy named Ivan \"Ivanko\" or Yuri \"Yurko\" expresses that he is familiar to you. This is the same as referring to Robert to \"Rob,\" \"Bob\" and \"Bobby\"; and William to \"Bill\", \"Will\" and \"Willy\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18113312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18113312", "title": "Sologamy", "text": "Sologamy\n\nSologamy is marriage by a person to oneself. Supporters of the practice argue that it affirms one's own value and leads to a happier life.\n\nAn alternative term is self-marriage, but this may also refer to a self-uniting marriage, that is a marriage without an officiant.\n\nCeremonies may take almost exactly the same form as that of a regular marriage, including guests, cake, and a reception. Some self-marrying programs include giving guidance, practice, and support prior to the marriage. \n\nSelf-marriage has become increasingly popular in the 21st century, especially among affluent women. a travel agency in Kyoto was offering self-marriage packages for women, with some customers being wives who were disattisfied with their original wedding. British photographer Grace Gelder's self-marriage in 2014 and Italian fitness trainer Laura Mesi's self-marriage in 2017 have been widely reported.\n\nIn Chris Morris's television series \"Jam\", a middle-aged man marries himself.\n\nIn \"Glee\", Sue Sylvester marries herself.\n\nCarrie Bradshaw of \"Sex and The City\" marries herself.\n\nIn season 4 of \"The Exes\", Holly Franklin decides to marry herself.\n\nIn the episode \"Comet!\" of \"Cow and Chicken\", The Red Guy marries himself.\n\nIn the movie \"Zoolander 2\", the transgender model All (portrayed by Benedict Cumberbatch) is married with herself, as it's told that \"monomarriage is finally legal in Italy\".\n"}
{"id": "26678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26678", "title": "Star Wars", "text": "Star Wars\n\nStar Wars is an American epic space opera franchise, created by George Lucas and centered around a film series that began with the eponymous 1977 movie. The saga quickly became a worldwide pop culture phenomenon.\n\nThe first film was followed by two successful sequels, \"The Empire Strikes Back\" (1980) and \"Return of the Jedi\" (1983); these three films constitute the original \"Star Wars\" trilogy. A prequel trilogy was released between 1999 and 2005, albeit to mixed reactions from critics and fans. Finally, a sequel trilogy to conclude the nine-episode saga began in 2015 with \"\". The first eight films were nominated for Academy Awards (with wins going to the first two released) and were commercially successful, with a combined box office revenue of over billion. Together with the theatrical spin-off films \"\" (2008), \"Rogue One\" (2016), and \"\" (2018), \"Star Wars\" is the second-highest-grossing film series of all time.\n\nThe film series has spawned into other media, including books, television shows, computer and video games, theme park attractions and , and comic books, resulting in significant development of the series' fictional universe. \"Star Wars\" holds a \"Guinness World Records\" title for the \"Most successful film merchandising franchise\". In 2018, the total value of the \"Star Wars\" franchise was estimated at billion, and it is currently the fifth-highest-grossing media franchise.\n\nThe \"Star Wars\" franchise depicts the adventures of characters \"A long time ago in a galaxy far, far away.\" Many species of aliens (often humanoid) co-exist with droids who may assist them in their daily routines, and space travel between planets is common due to hyperspace technology. The rises and falls of different governments are chronicled throughout the saga: the democratic Republic is corrupted and overthrown by the Galactic Empire, which is fought by the Rebel Alliance. The Rebellion later gives rise to the New Republic and rebuilds society, but the remnants of the Empire reform as the First Order and attempt to destroy the Republic. Heroes of the former rebellion lead the Resistance against the oppressive dictatorship.\n\nA mystical power known as \"the Force\" is described in the original film as \"an energy field created by all living things ... [that] binds the galaxy together.\" Those whom \"the Force is strong with\" have quick reflexes; through training and meditation, they are able to perform various superpowers (such as telekinesis, precognition, telepathy, and manipulation of physical energy). The Force is wielded by two major knighthood orders at conflict with each other: the Jedi, who act on the light side of the Force through non-attachment and arbitration, and the Sith, who use the dark side through fear and aggression. The latter's members are intended to be limited to two: a master and their apprentice.\n\nThe \"Star Wars\" film series centers around a \"trilogy of trilogies\" (also referred to as the \"Skywalker saga\" or the \"\"Star Wars\" saga\"). They were released out of sequence: the original (Episodes \"IV–VI\", 1977–83), prequel (Episodes \"I–III\", 1999–2005), and sequel (Episodes \"VII–IX\", 2015–19) trilogy. The first two trilogies were released on three year intervals, the sequel trilogy films two years apart. Each trilogy centers on a generation of the Force-sensitive Skywalker family. The prequels focus on Anakin Skywalker, the original trilogy on his son Luke, and the sequels on Luke's nephew Kylo Ren.\n\nA theatrical animated film, \"\" (2008), was released as a pilot to a . They were among the last projects overseen by George Lucas before the franchise was sold to Disney in 2012. An anthology series set between the main episodes entered development in parallel to the production of the sequel trilogy, described by Disney CFO Jay Rasulo as origin stories. The first entry, \"Rogue One\" (2016), tells the story of the rebels who steal the Death Star plans directly before \"Episode IV\". \"\" (2018) focuses on Han's backstory, also featuring Chewbacca and Lando Calrissian.\n\nAn untitled trilogy by 's director Rian Johnson has been announced, with an additional film series by \"Game of Thrones\" creators David Benioff and D. B. Weiss also in development.\n\nIn 1971, George Lucas wanted to film an adaptation of the \"Flash Gordon\" serial, but couldn't obtain the rights, so he began developing his own space opera. After directing \"American Graffiti\" (1973), he wrote a two-page synopsis titled \"Journal of the Whills\", which 20th Century Fox decided to invest in. By 1974, he had expanded the story into the first draft of a screenplay, and continued writing more polished drafts.\nLucas negotiated to retain the sequel rights, and was offered an initial $150,000 to write, produce, and direct the film. \"Star Wars\" was released on May 25, 1977. Its success led Lucas to make it the basis of an elaborate film serial.\n\nWith the backstory he created for the sequel, Lucas decided that the series would be a trilogy of trilogies, Most of the main cast would return for the two additional installments of the original trilogy, which were self-financed by Lucasfilm. The original film was retitled \"Star Wars: Episode IV – A New Hope\" for a 1981 rerelease. \"Episode V: The Empire Strikes Back\" was released in May 1980, also achieving wide financial and critical success. The final film in the trilogy, \"\" was released in May 1983. The story of the original trilogy focuses on Luke Skywalker's quest to become a Jedi, his struggle with the evil Imperial agent Darth Vader, and the struggle of the Rebel Alliance to free the galaxy from the clutches of the Empire.\n\nAccording to producer Gary Kurtz, loose plans for a prequel trilogy were developed during the outlining of the original two films. In 1980, Lucas confirmed that he had the nine-film series plotted, but due to the stress of producing the original trilogy and pressure from his wife to settle down, he had decided to cancel further sequels by 1981.\n\nTechnical advances in the late 1980s and early 1990s, including the ability to create computer-generated imagery, inspired Lucas to consider that it might be possible to revisit his saga. In 1989, Lucas stated that the prequel trilogy would be \"unbelievably expensive.\" The popularity of the franchise had been prolonged by the \"Star Wars\" expanded universe, so that it still had a large audience. A theatrical rerelease \"updated\" the original trilogy with the style of CGI envisioned for the new films.\n\n\"\" was released on May 19, 1999, and \"\" on May 16, 2002, both to mixed reviews. \"\", the first film in the franchise, was released on May 19, 2005. The plot of the trilogy focuses on the fall of the Galactic Republic, the formation of the Empire, and the tragedy of Anakin Skywalker's turn to the dark side.\n\nPrior to releasing the original film, and made possible by its success, Lucas planned \"three trilogies of nine films.\" He announced this to \"Time\" in 1978, and confirmed that he had outlined them in 1981. At various stages of development, the sequel trilogy was to focus on the rebuilding of the Republic, the return of Luke in a role similar to that of Obi-Wan in the original trilogy (and with a female love interest), Luke's sister (not yet determined to be Leia), Han, Leia, and . However, after beginning work on the prequel trilogy, Lucas insisted that \"Star Wars\" was meant to be a six-part series and that there would be no sequel trilogy.\n\nLucas decided to leave the franchise in the hands of other filmmakers, announcing in January 2012 that he would step away from making blockbuster films.\nIn October 2012, The Walt Disney Company agreed to buy Lucasfilm and announced that \"Episode VII\" would be released in 2015. The co-chairman of Lucasfilm, Kathleen Kennedy, became president of the company and served as executive producer of new \"Star Wars\" feature films. The sequel trilogy also meant the end of the existing \"Star Wars\" expanded universe, which was discarded to give \"maximum creative freedom to the filmmakers and also preserve an element of surprise and discovery for the audience.\"\n\nThe sequel trilogy focuses on the journey of the orphaned scavenger Rey following in the footsteps of the Jedi with the guidance of the reluctant last Jedi, Luke Skywalker. Along with ex-stormtrooper Finn, she helps the Resistance led by Leia fight the First Order commanded by Supreme Leader Snoke and his pupil Kylo Ren (Han Solo and Leia's son). \"\" was released on December 18, 2015, \"\" on December 15, 2017, and \"\" is due to be released on December 20, 2019.\n\nIn his initial planning following the success of \"Star Wars\", Lucas planned a few standalone films separate from the Skywalker saga. Theatrical films outside the main episodic series have their origin in the Ewok spin-off films \"\" (1984) and \"\" (1985), which were screened internationally after being produced for television. Although based on story ideas from Lucas, they do not bear \"Star Wars\" in their titles, and were considered to exist in a lower level of canon than the episodic films.\n\nAfter the conclusion of his then six-episode saga in 2005, Lucas continued developing spin-offs in the form of television series and theatrical films.\n\nPreceding the airing of in late 2008, the theatrical feature \"\" was compiled from episodes \"almost [as] an afterthought.\" It reveals that Anakin trained an apprentice between \"Attack of the Clones\" and \"Revenge of the Sith\"; the series explains Padawan Ahsoka Tano's absence from the latter film. The character was originally criticized by fans, but by the end of the series the character had become a fan favorite. It exists in the same level of canon as the episodic and anthology films.\n\nBefore selling Lucasfilm to Disney in 2012, and parallel to his development of a sequel trilogy, George Lucas and original trilogy co-screenwriter Lawrence Kasdan started development on a standalone film about a young Han Solo. On February 5, 2013, Disney CEO Bob Iger made public the development of the Kasdan film, along with an undisclosed film written by Simon Kinberg. Disney CFO Jay Rasulo has described the standalone films as origin stories.\n\nLucasfilm and Kennedy have stated that the standalone films would be referred to as the \"Star Wars\" anthology series (albeit the word anthology has not been used in any of the titles, instead carrying the promotional \"A Star Wars Story\" subtitle. Focused on how the rebels obtained the Death Star plans from the 1977 film, the first anthology film, \"Rogue One\", was released on December 16, 2016 to favorable reviews and box office success. The second, \"\", centered on a young Han Solo with Chewbacca and Lando as supporting characters, was released on May 25, 2018 to mixed reviews and underperformance at the box office. Despite this, more anthology films are expected to be released.\n\nIn November 2017, Lucasfilm announced that Rian Johnson, the writer/director of \"The Last Jedi\", would be working on a new trilogy. The films will reportedly differ from the Skywalker-focused films in favor of focusing on new characters. Johnson is confirmed to write and direct the first film.\n\nIn February 2018, it was announced that David Benioff and D. B. Weiss would write and produce a series of \"Star Wars\" films that are not Skywalker-focused films, similar to (but separate from) Rian Johnson's upcoming installments in the franchise.\n\nA two-hour \"Star Wars Holiday Special\" focusing on Chewbacca's family was produced for CBS in 1978. Along with the stars of the original film, celebrity guest stars appear in plot-related skits and musical numbers. Lucas loathed the special and forbade it to be reaired or released on home video. An 11-minute animated sequence features the first appearance of bounty hunter Boba Fett.\n\nThe Ewoks from \"Return of the Jedi\" were featured in two spin-off television films, \"\" and \"\". Both aired on ABC on the Thanksgiving weekends of 1984 and 1985, respectively. Warwick Davis reprised his debut role as the main Ewok, Wicket, in a story by Lucas and a screenplay by Bob Carrau. Wicket helps two children rescue their parents from a giant creature. In the sequel, the Ewoks protect their village from invaders, while a child from the first film tries to escape.\n\nNelvana, the animation studio that had animated the animated segment of the \"Holiday Special\" was hired to create two animated series. \"\" (1985–1986), which aired for one season on ABC, follows the adventures of and R2-D2 before the events of \"A New Hope\". Its sister series \"\" (1985–1987) features the Ewoks before \"Return of the Jedi\" and the Ewok movies.\n\nAfter the release of \"Attack of the Clones\", Cartoon Network produced and aired the micro-series \"\" from 2003 to weeks before the 2005 release of \"Revenge of the Sith\", as the series featured events set between those films. It won the Primetime Emmy Awards for Outstanding Animated Program in 2004 and 2005.\n\nLucas decided to invest in creating his own animation company, Lucasfilm Animation, and used it to create his first in-house \"Star Wars\" CGI-animated series. \"\" (2008–2014) was introduced through a . Both were accepted to the highest level canon in 2014; all series released afterwards would also be canon. In 2014, Disney XD began airing \"Star Wars Rebels\", the first CGI-animated series produced in the new era. Set between \"Revenge of the Sith\" and \"A New Hope\", it follows a band of rebels as they fight the Galactic Empire and helped close some of the arcs in \"The Clone Wars\". The animated microseries \"Star Wars Forces of Destiny\" debuted in 2017, focusing on the female characters of the franchise. The animated series \"Star Wars Resistance\" debuted in late 2018, is anime-inspired, and focuses on a young Resistance pilot shortly before \"The Force Awakens\".\n\nWhen Lucasfilm was sold to Disney, this reportedly included 50 written scripts for a proposed live-action television series with the working title \"Star Wars: Underworld\". The series was to be set between the prequel and original trilogies and focus on the criminal and political power struggles as the Empire took over the galaxy. As of November 2018, Disney has not moved forward with that project but has expressed interest in expanding \"Star Wars\" into live-action television.\n\nWith their upcoming planned direct-to-consumer streaming service, Disney+, it has been reported that multiple live-action series are in development.\n\nVisual effects studio Industrial Light & Magic, a subsidiary of Lucasfilm, opened a new division in November 2018 targeted for streaming and episodic television called ILM TV. Based in London with support from the company’s locations in San Francisco, Vancouver, and Singapore, it's expected the new division will work extensively on any current and future live-action \"Star Wars\" television series, starting with \"The Mandalorian\".\n\nIn November 2017, Bob Iger discussed the development of a \"Star Wars\" series for Disney+, due to launch in 2019. It was announced in March 2018 that Jon Favreau, who voiced the characters in \"The Clone Wars\" and in \"Solo: A Star Wars Story\", will produce and write one of the television series. Entitled \"\", it will be set three years after \"Return of the Jedi\" and center on a lone gunfighter in the outer reaches of the galaxy. Production on 10 episodes of the series began in October 2018, with a reported budget of $100 million.\n\nIn November 2018, Lucasfilm announced that development on a live-action Cassian Andor \"spy thriller\" series for Disney+ had also begun. Diego Luna will reprise his role from \"Rogue One\", and production is planned to begin in 2019 with Stephen Schiff as the showrunner.\n\nFrom 1977 to 2014, the term \"Expanded Universe\" (EU) was an umbrella term for all officially licensed \"Star Wars\" storytelling material set outside the events depicted within the theatrical films, including novels, comics, and video games. Lucasfilm maintained internal continuity between the films and television content and the EU material until April 25, 2014, when the company announced all of the EU works would cease production. Existing works would no longer be considered canon to the franchise and subsequent reprints would be rebranded under the \"Star Wars Legends\" label, with downloadable content for the massively multiplayer online game \"\" the only \"Legends\" material to still be produced. The \"Star Wars\" canon was subsequently restructured to only include the existing six feature films, the animated film \"\" (2008), and its . All future projects and creative developments across all types of media would be overseen and coordinated by the story group, announced as a division of Lucasfilm created to maintain continuity and a cohesive vision on the storytelling of the franchise. Multiple comics series from Marvel and novels published by Del Rey were produced after the announcement.\n\n\"Star Wars\" in print predates the release of the first film, with the December 1976 novelization of \"Star Wars\", subtitled \"\". Credited to Lucas, it was ghostwritten by Alan Dean Foster. The first \"Expanded Universe\" story appeared in Marvel Comics' \"Star Wars\" #7 in January 1978 (the first six issues being an adaptation of the film), followed by Foster's sequel novel \"Splinter of the Mind's Eye\" the following month.\n\nAfter penning the novelization of the original film, Foster followed it with the sequel \"Splinter of the Mind's Eye\" (1978). The novelizations of \"The Empire Strikes Back\" (1980) by Donald F. Glut and \"Return of the Jedi\" (1983) by James Kahn followed, as well as \"The Han Solo Adventures\" trilogy (1979–1980) by Brian Daley, and \"The Adventures of Lando Calrissian\" (1983) trilogy by L. Neil Smith.\n\nTimothy Zahn's bestselling \"Thrawn\" trilogy (1991–1993) reignited interest in the franchise and introduced the popular characters Grand Admiral Thrawn, Mara Jade, Talon Karrde, and Gilad Pellaeon. The first novel, \"Heir to the Empire\", reached #1 on the \"New York Times\" Best Seller list, and the series finds Luke, Leia, and Han facing off against tactical genius Thrawn, who is plotting to retake the galaxy for the Empire. In \"The Courtship of Princess Leia\" (1994) by Dave Wolverton, set immediately before the \"Thrawn\" trilogy, Leia considers an advantageous political marriage to Prince Isolder of the planet Hapes, but she and Han ultimately marry. Steve Perry's \"\" (1996), set between \"The Empire Strikes Back\" and \"Return of the Jedi\", was part of a multimedia campaign that included a comic book series and video game. The novel introduced the crime lord Prince Xizor, another popular character who would appear in multiple other works. Other notable series from Bantam include the \"Jedi Academy\" trilogy (1994) by Kevin J. Anderson, the 14-book \"Young Jedi Knights\" series (1995–1998) by Anderson and Rebecca Moesta, and the \"\" series (1996–2012) by Michael A. Stackpole and Aaron Allston.\n\nDel Rey took over \"Star Wars\" book publishing in 1999, releasing what would become a 19-installment novel series called \"The New Jedi Order\" (1999–2003). Written by multiple authors, the series was set 25 to 30 years after the original films and introduced the Yuuzhan Vong, a powerful alien race attempting to invade and conquer the entire galaxy. The bestselling multi-author series \"Legacy of the Force\" (2006–2008) chronicles the crossover of Han and Leia's son Jacen Solo to the dark side of the Force; among his evil deeds, he kills Luke's wife Mara Jade as a sacrifice to join the Sith. Although no longer canon, the story is paralleled in \"The Force Awakens\" with Han and Leia's son Ben Solo, who has become the dark Kylo Ren.\n\nThree series set in the prequel era were introduced for younger audiences: the 18-book \"\" (1999–2002) chronicles the adventures of Obi-Wan Kenobi and his master Qui-Gon Jinn in the years before \"The Phantom Menace\"; the 11-book \"Jedi Quest\" (2001–2004) follows Obi-Wan and his own apprentice, Anakin Skywalker in between \"The Phantom Menace\" and \"Attack of the Clones\"; and the 10-book \"\" (2005–2008), set almost immediately after \"Revenge of the Sith\", features Obi-Wan and the last few surviving Jedi. \"\" by Joe Schreiber, released in January 2014, was the last \"Star Wars\" novel published before Lucasfilm announced the creation of the \"Star Wars Legends\" brand.\n\nAlthough Thrawn had been designated a \"Legends\" character in 2014, he was reintroduced into the canon in the 2016 third season of \"Rebels\", with Zahn returning to write more novels based in the character, and set in the new canon.\n\nMarvel Comics published a \"Star Wars\" comic book series from 1977 to 1986. Original \"Star Wars\" comics were serialized in the Marvel magazine \"Pizzazz\" between 1977 and 1979. The 1977 installments were the first original \"Star Wars\" stories not directly adapted from the films to appear in print form, as they preceded those of the \"Star Wars\" comic series. From 1985–1987, the animated children's series \"\" and \"\" inspired comic series from Marvel's Star Comics line.\n\nIn the late 1980s, Marvel dropped a new \"Star Wars\" comic it had in development, which was picked up by Dark Horse Comics and published as the popular \"Dark Empire\" series (1991–1995). Dark Horse subsequently launched dozens of series set after the original film trilogy, including \"Tales of the Jedi\" (1993–1998), \"\" (1995–1998), \"\" (1998–2006), \"Star Wars Tales\" (1999–2005), \"\" (2002–2006), and \"\" (2006–2010).\n\nAfter Disney's acquisition of Lucasfilm, it was announced in January 2014 that in 2015 the \"Star Wars\" comics license would return to Marvel Comics, whose parent company, Marvel Entertainment, Disney had purchased in 2009. Launched in 2015, the first three publications were titled \"Star Wars\", \"\", and the limited series \"\".\n\nRadio adaptations of the films were also produced. Lucas, a fan of the NPR-affiliated campus radio station of his alma mater the University of Southern California, licensed the \"Star Wars\" radio rights to KUSC-FM for US$1. The production used John Williams' original film score, along with Ben Burtt's sound effects.\n\nThe first was written by science fiction author Brian Daley and directed by John Madden. It was broadcast on National Public Radio in 1981, adapting the original 1977 film into 13-episodes. Mark Hamill and Anthony Daniels reprised their film roles.\n\nThe overwhelming success, led to a 10-episode adaptation of \"The Empire Strikes Back\" debuted in 1983. Billy Dee Williams joined the other two stars, reprising his role as Lando Calrissian.\n\nIn 1983, Buena Vista Records released an original, 30-minute \"Star Wars\" audio drama titled \"Rebel Mission to Ord Mantell\", written by Daley. In the 1990s, Time Warner Audio Publishing adapted several \"Star Wars\" series from Dark Horse Comics into audio dramas: the three-part \"Dark Empire\" saga, \"Tales of the Jedi\", \"\", the \"Dark Forces\" trilogy, and \"Crimson Empire\" (1998). \"Return of the Jedi\" was adapted into 6-episodes in 1996, featuring Daniels.\n\nThe first officially licensed \"Star Wars\" electronic game was Kenner's 1979 table-top \"Star Wars\" Electronic Battle Command. In 1982, Parker Brothers published the first \"Star Wars\" video game for the Atari 2600, \"\". It was followed in 1983 by Atari's rail shooter arcade game \"Star Wars\", which used vector graphics and was based on the Death Star trench run scene from the 1977 film. The next game, \"\" (1984), used more traditional raster graphics, with the following game \"\" (1985) returning to vector graphics.\n\n\"Star Wars\" was released for Nintendo in 1991, followed by the next year. \"Super Star Wars\" was also released in 1992, followed by two sequels over the next two years.\n\nLucasfilm had started its own video game company in 1982, becomong known for adventure games and World War II flight combat games. In 1993, LucasArts released \"\", the first self-published \"Star Wars\" video game and the first space flight simulation based on the franchise. It was one of the best-selling games of 1993, and established its own . The released between 1998 and 2003 also focused on space battles set during the films.\n\n\"\" (1995), a hybrid adventure game incorporating puzzles and strategy, was the first \"Star Wars\" first-person shooter. It featured gameplay and graphical features not then common in other games, made possible by LucasArts' custom-designed game engine, the Jedi. The game was well received, and followed by . The series introduced Kyle Katarn, who would appear in multiple games, novels, and comics. Katarn is a former stormtrooper who joins the rebellion and becomes a Jedi, a plot arc similar to that of Finn in \"The Force Awakens\".\n\nA massively multiplayer online role-playing game, \"Star Wars Galaxies\", was in operation from 2003 until 2011. Disney partnered with Lenovo to create the augmented reality game \"Jedi Challenges\", released in November 2017. In August 2018, it was announced that Zynga would publish free-to-play \"Star Wars\" mobile games.\n\nIn addition to the Disneyland ride Star Tours (1987) and its renovation as Star Tours – The Adventures Continue (2011), many live attractions have been held at Disney parks, including the traveling exhibition , the Space Mountain spin-off Hyperspace Mountain, a walkthrough Launch Bay, and the nighttime \"\". An immersive themed area called is planned for Disneyland and Walt Disney World in 2019, and a themed hotel will open at Walt Disney World in mid-2019.\nA multimedia project involves works released across multiple types of media. \"\" (1996) was a multimedia project set between \"The Empire Strikes Back\" and \"Return of the Jedi\" that included a novel by Steve Perry, a comic book series, a , and action figures. \"\" (2008–2010) was a similar project set between \"Revenge of the Sith\" and \"A New Hope\" that included a novel, a and its , a graphic novel, a role-playing game supplement, and toys.\n\nThe success of the \"Star Wars\" films led the franchise to become one of the most merchandised franchises in the world. While filming the original 1977 film, George Lucas decided to take a $500,000 pay cut to his salary as director in exchange for full ownership of the franchise's merchandising rights. The first six films produced approximately billion in merchandising revenue.\n\nKenner made the first \"Star Wars\" action figures to coincide with the release of the film, and today the original figures are highly valuable. Since the 1990s, Hasbro holds the rights to create action figures based on the saga. Pez dispensers began to be produced in 1997. \"Star Wars\" was the first intellectual property to be licensed in Lego history. Lego has produced animated parody short films and mini-series to promote their \"Star Wars\" sets. The Lego \"Star Wars\" video games are critically acclaimed bestsellers.\n\nIn 1977, the board game \"Star Wars: Escape from the Death Star\" was released, not to be confused with the board game with the same name published in 1990. A \"Star Wars Monopoly\" and themed versions of \"Trivial Pursuit\" and Battleship were released in 1997, with updated versions released in subsequent years. The board game \"Risk\" has been adapted in two editions by Hasbro: \"\" (2005) and the \"\" (2006). Three \"Star Wars\" tabletop role-playing games have been developed: in the 1980s and 1990s, one by Wizards of the Coast in the 2000s, and one by Fantasy Flight Games in the 2010s.\n\n\"Star Wars\" trading cards have been published since the first \"blue\" series, by Topps, in 1977. Dozens of series have been produced, with Topps being the licensed creator in the United States. Some of the card series are of film stills, while others are original art. Many of the cards have become highly collectible with some very rare \"promos\", such as the 1993 Galaxy Series II \"floating Yoda\" P3 card often commanding US$1,000 or more. While most \"base\" or \"common card\" sets are plentiful, many \"insert\" or \"chase cards\" are very rare. From 1995 until 2001, Decipher, Inc. had the license for, created and produced a collectible card game based on \"Star Wars\"; the \"Star Wars Collectible Card Game\" (also known as SWCCG).\n\nAside from its well-known science fictional technology, \"Star Wars\" features elements such as knighthood, chivalry, and princesses that are related to archetypes of the fantasy genre. The \"Star Wars\" world, unlike science fiction that features sleek and futuristic settings, is portrayed as dirty and grimy. Lucas' vision of a \"used future\" was further popularized in the science fiction films \"Alien\", which was set on an aged space freighter; \"Mad Max 2\", which is set in a post-apocalyptic desert; and \"Blade Runner\", which is set in a crumbling, dystopian city of the future. Lucas made a conscious effort to parallel scenes and dialogue between films, and especially the journey of Anakin Skywalker in the prequels with that of his son Luke.\n\nPolitical science has been an important element of \"Star Wars\" since the franchise launched in 1977, focusing on a struggle between democracy and dictatorship. McQuarrie's designs for Darth Vader, initially inspired by Samurai armor, also incorporated a German military helmet. Space battles in \"A New Hope\" were based on World War I and World War II dogfights, and stormtroopers borrow the name of Nazi \"shock\" troopers. Imperial officers wear uniforms resembling those of German forces during World War II, and political and security officers resemble the black-clad SS down to the stylized silver death's head on their caps. World War II terms were used for names in the films; \"e.g.\" the planets Kessel (a term that refers to a group of encircled forces) and Hoth (Hermann Hoth was a German general who served on the snow-laden Eastern Front).\n\nPalpatine being a chancellor before becoming the Emperor in the prequel trilogy alludes to Adolf Hitler's role as chancellor before appointing himself \"Führer\". Lucas has also drawn parallels to historical dictators such as Julius Caesar, Napoleon Bonaparte, and Richard Nixon. The Great Jedi Purge mirrors the events of the Night of the Long Knives. The corruption of the Galactic Republic is modeled after the fall of the democratic Roman Republic and the formation of an empire.\n\nOn the inspiration for the First Order formed \"from the ashes of the Empire\", \"The Force Awakens\" director J.J. Abrams spoke of conversations the writers had about how the Nazis could have escaped to Argentina after WWII and \"started working together again.\"\n\nThe \"Star Wars\" saga has had a significant impact on popular culture, with references to its fictional universe deeply embedded in everyday life. Phrases like \"evil empire\" and \"May the Force be with you\" have become part of the popular lexicon. The first \"Star Wars\" film in 1977 was a cultural unifier, enjoyed by a wide spectrum of people. The film can be said to have helped launch the science fiction boom of the late 1970s and early 1980s, making science fiction films a blockbuster genre and mainstream. The widespread impact made it a prime target for parody works and homages, with popular examples including \"Hardware Wars\", \"Spaceballs\", \"\", \"\", and its sequels \"\" and \"\".\n\nIn 1989, the Library of Congress selected the original \"Star Wars\" film for preservation in the U.S. National Film Registry, as being \"culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant.\" \"The Empire Strikes Back\", was selected in 2010. 35mm reels of the 1997 Special Editions were the versions initially presented for preservation because of the difficulty of transferring from the original prints, but it was later revealed that the Library possessed a copyright deposit print of the original theatrical releases.\n\nThe original \"Star Wars\" film was a huge success for 20th Century Fox, and was credited for reinvigorating the company. Within three weeks of the film's release, the studio's stock price doubled to a record high. Prior to 1977, 20th Century Fox's greatest annual profits were $37 million, while in 1977, the company broke that record by posting a profit of $79 million. The franchise helped Fox to change from an almost bankrupt production company to a thriving media conglomerate.\n\n\"Star Wars\" fundamentally changed the aesthetics and narratives of Hollywood films, switching the focus of Hollywood-made films from deep, meaningful stories based on dramatic conflict, themes and irony to sprawling special-effects-laden blockbusters, as well as changing the Hollywood film industry in fundamental ways. Before \"Star Wars\", special effects in films had not appreciably advanced since the 1950s. The commercial success of \"Star Wars\" created a boom in state-of-the-art special effects in the late 1970s. Along with \"Jaws\", \"Star Wars\" started the tradition of the summer blockbuster film in the entertainment industry, where films open on many screens at the same time and profitable franchises are important. It created the model for the major film trilogy and showed that merchandising rights on a film could generate more money than the film itself did.\n\nThe \"Star Wars\" saga has inspired many fans to create their own non-canon material set in the \"Star Wars\" galaxy. In recent years, this has ranged from writing fan fiction to creating fan films. In 2002, Lucasfilm sponsored the first annual Official \"Star Wars\" Fan Film Awards, officially recognizing filmmakers and the genre. Because of concerns over potential copyright and trademark issues, however, the contest was initially open only to parodies, mockumentaries, and documentaries. Fan fiction films set in the \"Star Wars\" universe were originally ineligible, but in 2007, Lucasfilm changed the submission standards to allow in-universe fiction entries. Lucasfilm has allowed but not endorsed the creation of fan fiction, as long as it does not attempt to make a profit.\n\nAs the characters and the storyline of the original trilogy are so well known, educators have used the films in the classroom as a learning resource. For example, a project in Western Australia honed elementary school students storytelling skills by role-playing action scenes from the movies and later creating props and audio/visual scenery to enhance their performance. Others have used the films to encourage second-level students to integrate technology in the science classroom by making prototype lightsabers. Similarly, psychiatrists in New Zealand and the US have advocated their use in the university classroom to explain different types of psychopathology.\n\n\nInformational notes\nCitations\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22216145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22216145", "title": "Tamil culture", "text": "Tamil culture\n\nTamil culture is the culture of the Tamil people. Tamil culture is rooted in the arts and ways of life of Tamils in India, Sri Lanka, Malaysia, Singapore and across the globe. Tamil culture is expressed in language, literature, music, dance, theatre, folk arts, martial arts, painting, sculpture, architecture, sports, media, comedy, cuisine, costumes, celebrations, philosophy, religions, traditions, rituals, organizations, science, and technology.\n\nTamils have strong attachment to the Tamil language, which is often venerated in literature as \"Tamil̲an̲n̲ai\", \"the Tamil mother\". It has historically been, and to large extent still is, central to the Tamil identity. Like the other languages of South India, it is a Dravidian language, unrelated to the Indo-European languages of northern India. The Tamil language preserves many features of Proto-Dravidian, though modern-day spoken Tamil in Tamil Nadu freely uses loanwords from Sanskrit and English and vice versa. Tamil literature is of considerable antiquity, and is recognised as a classical language by the government of India. Classical Tamil literature, which ranges from lyric poetry to works on poetics and ethical philosophy, is remarkably different from contemporary and later literature in other Indian languages, and represents the oldest body of secular literature in South-east Asia.\n\nAncient Tamil grammatical works Tolkappiyam, the ten anthologies Pattuppāṭṭu, the eight anthologies Eṭṭuttokai sheds light on early religion of ancient Dravidian people. \"Murugan\" was glorified as, \"the god of war, who is ever young and resplendent,\" as \"the favored god of the Tamils.\" Sivan was also seen as the supreme God. Early iconography of Murugan and Sivan and their association with native flora and fauna goes back to Indus Valley Civilization. The Sangam landscape was classified into five categories, \"thinais\", based on the mood, the season and the land. Tolkappiyam, mentions that each of these \"thinai\" had an associated deity such Seyyon in \"Kurinji\"-the hills, Thirumaal in \"Mullai\"-the forests, and Venthan in \"Marutham\"-the plains,\nKotravai in \"Palai\"-the deesert and Wanji-ko/kadalon in the \"Neithal\"-the coasts and the seas. Other gods mentioned were Mayyon and Vaali who were all assimilated into Hinduism over time. Dravidian influence on early Vedic religion is evident, many of these features are already present in the oldest known Indo-Aryan language, the language of the \"Rigveda\" (c. 1500 BCE), which also includes over a dozen words borrowed from Dravidian. This represents an early religious and cultural fusion or synthesis between ancient Dravidians and Indo-Aryans, which became more evident over time with sacred iconography, flora and fauna that went on to influence Hinduism, Buddhism and Jainism\n\nAbout 88% of the population of Tamil Nadu are Hindus. Christians and Muslims account for 6% and 5.5% respectively. The majority of Muslims in Tamil Nadu speak Tamil, with less than 15% of them reporting Urdu as their mother tongue. Tamil Jains number only a few thousand now. Atheist, rationalist, and humanist philosophies are also adhered by sizeable minorities, as a result of Tamil cultural revivalism in the 20th century, and its antipathy to what it saw as Brahminical Hinduism.\n\nThe most popular deity is Murugan, he is known as the patron god of the Tamils and is also called \"Tamil Kadavul\" (Tamil God). In Tamil tradition, Murugan is the youngest son and Ganesha/Pillayar is the eldest son of Shiva/Sivan, and it is different from the North Indian tradition, which represents Murugan as the eldest son. The goddess Parvati is often depicted as a goddess with green skin complexion in Tamil Hindu tradition. The worship of Amman, also called Mariamman, is thought to have been derived from an ancient mother goddess, is also very common. Kan̲n̲agi, the heroine of the Cilappatikār̲am, is worshipped as Pattin̲i by many Tamils, particularly in Sri Lanka. There are also many followers of Ayyavazhi in Tamil Nadu, mainly in the southern districts. In addition, there are many temples and devotees of Vishnu, Siva, Ganapathi, and the other Hindu deities.\nMuslims across Tamil Nadu follow Hanafi and Shafi'i schools. Most Tamil Muslims are Shadhilis. Erwadi in Ramanathapuram district and Nagore in Nagapattinam district are the major pilgrimage centres for Muslims in Tamil Nadu.\n\nThe most important Tamil festivals are Pongal, a harvest festival that occurs in mid-January, and Varudapirappu, the Tamil New Year, which occurs on 14 April. Both are celebrated by almost all Tamils, regardless of religion. The Hindu festival Deepavali is celebrated with fanfare; other local Hindu festivals include Thaipusam, Panguni Uttiram, and Adiperukku. While Adiperukku is celebrated with more pomp in the Cauvery region than in others, the Ayyavazhi Festival, Ayya Vaikunda Avataram, is predominantly celebrated in the southern districts of Kanyakumari District, Tirunelveli, and Thoothukudi.\n\nIn rural Tamil Nadu, many local deities, called aiyyan̲ārs, are thought to be the spirits of local heroes who protect the village from harm. Their worship often centres around nadukkal, stones erected in memory of heroes who died in battle. This form of worship is mentioned frequently in classical literature and appears to be the surviving remnants of an ancient Tamil tradition.\n\nThe Saivist sect of Hinduism is significantly represented amongst Tamils, more so among Sri Lankan Tamils, although most of the Saivist places of religious significance are in northern India. The Alvars and Nayanars, who were predominantly Tamils, played a key role in the renaissance of Bhakti tradition in India. In the 10th century, the philosopher Ramanuja, who propagated the theory of Visishtadvaitam, brought many changes to worshiping practices, creating new regulations on temple worship, and accepted lower-caste Hindus as his prime disciples.\n\nTamil Jains constitute around 0.13% of the population of Tamil Nadu. Many of the rich Tamil literature works were written by Jains. According to George L. Hart, the legend of the Tamil Sangams or \"literary assemblies: was based on the Jain \"sangham\" at Madurai.\n\nVarious martial arts including Kuttu Varisai, Varma Kalai, Silambam, Adithada, Malyutham and Kalarippayattu, are practised in Tamil Nadu and Kerala. The warm-up phase includes yoga, meditation and breathing exercises. Silambam originated in ancient Tamilakam and was patronized by the Pandyans, Cholas and Cheras, who ruled over this region. \"Silapathiharam\" a Tamil literature from the 2nd century AD, refers to the sale of Silamabam instructions, weapons and equipment to foreign traders. Since the early Sangam age, there was a warlike culture in South India. War was regarded as an honorable sacrifice and fallen heroes and kings were worshiped in the form of a Hero stone. Each warrior was trained in martial arts, horse riding and specialized in two of the weapons of that period Vel (spear) Val (sword) and Vil (bow). Heroic martyrdom was glorified in ancient Tamil literature. The Tamil kings and warriors followed an honour code similar to that of Japanese Samurais and committed suicide to save the honor. The forms of martial suicide were known as Avipalli, Thannai, Verttal, Marakkanchi, Vatakkiruttal and Punkilithu Mudiyum Maram. Avipalli was mentioned in all the works except \"Veera Soliyam\". It was a self-sacrifice of a warrior to the goddess of war for the victory of his commander. The Tamil rebels in Sri Lanka reflected some elements of Tamil martial traditions which included worship of fallen heroes (Maaveerar Naal) and practice of martial suicide. They carried a Suicide pill around their neck to escape the captivity and torture. A remarkable feature besides to their willingness to sacrifice is, that they were well organized and disciplined. It was forbidden for the rebels to consume tobaccos, alcohols, drugs and to have sexual relationship.\n\nThe Wootz steel originated in South India and Sri Lanka. There are several ancient Tamil, Greek, Chinese and Roman literary references to high carbon Indian steel since the time of Alexander's India campaign. The crucible steel production process started in the sixth century BC, at production sites of Kodumanal in Tamil Nadu, Golconda in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Sri Lanka and exported globally; the Tamils of the Chera Dynasty producing what was termed \"the finest steel in the world\", i.e. Seric Iron to the Romans, Egyptians, Chinese and Arabs by 500 BC. The steel was exported as cakes of steely iron that came to be known as \"Wootz.\"\n\nThe Tamilakam method was to heat black magnetite ore in the presence of carbon in a sealed clay crucible inside a charcoal furnace. An alternative was to smelt the ore first to give wrought iron, then heated and hammered to be rid of slag. The carbon source was bamboo and leaves from plants such as Avārai. The Chinese and locals in Sri Lanka adopted the production methods of creating Wootz steel from the Chera Tamils by the 5th century BC. In Sri Lanka, this early steel-making method employed a unique wind furnace, driven by the monsoon winds, capable of producing high-carbon steel and production sites from antiquity have emerged, in places such as Anuradhapura, Tissamaharama and Samanalawewa, as well as imported artifacts of ancient iron and steel from Kodumanal. A 200 BC Tamil trade guild in Tissamaharama, in the South East of Sri Lanka, brought with them some of the oldest iron and steel artifacts and production processes to the island from the classical period. The Arabs introduced the South Indian/Sri Lankan wootz steel to Damascus, where an industry developed for making weapons of this steel. The 12th century Arab traveler Edrisi mentioned the \"Hinduwani\" or Indian steel as the best in the world. Another sign of its reputation is seen in a Persian phraseto give an \"Indian answer\", meaning \"a cut with an Indian sword.\" Wootz steel was widely exported and traded throughout ancient Europe and the Arab world, and became particularly famous in the Middle East.\n\nThe Tamil martial arts also includes various types of weapons.\n\nMost traditional art are religious in some form and usually centres on Hinduism, although the religious element is often only a means to represent universal—and, occasionally, humanist—themes. \n\nThe most important form of Tamil painting is Tanjore painting, which originated in Thanjavur in the 9th century. The painting's base is made of cloth and coated with zinc oxide, over which the image is painted using dyes; it is then decorated with semi-precious stones, as well as silver or gold thread. A style which is related in origin, but which exhibits significant differences in execution, is used for painting murals on temple walls; the most notable example are the murals on the Kutal Azhakar and Meenakshi temples of Madurai, the Brihadeeswarar temple of Tanjore.\n\nTamil sculpture ranges from elegant stone sculptures in temples, to bronze icons with exquisite details. The medieval Chola bronzes are considered to be one of India's greatest contributions to the world art. Unlike most Western art, the material in Tamil sculpture does not influence the form taken by the sculpture; instead, the artist imposes his/her vision of the form on the material. As a result, one often sees in stone sculptures flowing forms that are usually reserved for metal.\n\nTamil country has its own music form called Tamil Pannisai, from which current carnatic music evolved. Has its own music troops like Urumi melam, Pandi melam (present day's chenda melam), Mangala Vathiyam, Kailaya vathiyam etc.. Ancient Tamil works, such as the \"Silappatikaram\", describe a system of music, and a 7th-century Pallava inscription at Kudimiyamalai contains one of the earliest surviving examples of Indian music in notation. Contemporary dance forms such as Bharatanatyam have recent origins but are based older temple dance forms known as \"Sadirattam\" as practised by courtesans and a class of women known as \"Devadasis\"\n\nFamous Tamil dance styles are\nContemporary dance forms such as Bharatanatyam have recent origins but are based older temple dance forms known as \"Catir Kacceri\" as practised by courtesans and a class of women known as \"Devadasis\"\nOne of the Tamil folk dances is \"karakattam\". In its religious form, the dance is performed in front of an image of the goddess Mariamma. The \"kuravanci\" is a type of dance-drama, performed by four to eight women. The drama is opened by a woman playing the part of a female soothsayer of the \"kurava\" tribe(people of hills and mountains), who tells the story of a lady pining for her lover. The therukoothu, literally meaning \"street play\", is a form of village theater or folk opera. It is traditionally performed in village squares, with no sets and very simple props. The performances involve songs and dances, and the stories can be either religious or secular. The performances are not formal, and performers often interact with the audience, mocking them, or involving them in the dialogue. Therukkūthu has, in recent times, been very successfully adapted to convey social messages, such as abstinence and anti-caste criticism, as well as information about legal rights, and has spread to other parts of India. Tamil Nadu also has a well developed stage theatre tradition, which has been influenced by western theatre. A number of theatrical companies exist, with repertoires including absurdist, realist, and humorous plays.\n\nThe theatrical culture that flourished Tamil culture during the classical age. Tamil theatre has a long and varied history whose origins can be traced back almost two millennia to dance-theatre forms like \"Kotukotti\" and \"Pandarangam\", which are mentioned in an ancient anthology of poems entitled the \"Kalingathu Parani\".\n\nThe predominant theater form of the region is Kattaikkuttu, where performers (historically men) sing, act, dance and are accompanied by musicians on traditional instruments. The majority of performances draw from stories in the Mahabharata, while a few plays take their inspiration from Purana stories.\n\nThe modern Tamil film industry originated during the 20th century. Tamil film industry has its headquarters in Chennai and is known under the name Kollywood, it is the second largest film industry in India after Bollywood. Films from Kollywood entertain audiences not only in India but also overseas Tamil diaspora. Tamil films from Chennai have been distributed to various overseas theatres in Singapore, Sri Lanka, South Africa, Malaysia, Japan, Oceania, the Middle East, Western Europe, and North America. Inspired by Kollywood originated outside India Independent Tamil film production in Sri Lanka, Singapore, Canada, and western Europe. Several Tamil actresses such as Anuisa Ranjan Vyjayanthimala, Hema Malini, Rekha Ganesan, Sridevi, Meenakshi Sheshadri, and Vidya Balan have acted in Bollywood and dominated the cinema over the years. Some Chief Ministers of Tamil Nadu like MG Ramachandran, Karunanidhi and Jayalalithaa have their background in Tamil film industry.\n\nIn Ancient times, two bullfighting and bull-racing sports were conducted. 1.Manjuvirattu and 2. Yeruthazhuval. These sports were organised to keep the people's temperament always fit and ready for the war at any time. Each has its own techniques and rules. These sports acted as one of the criteria to marry girls of warrior family. There were traditions where the winner would be chosen as bridegroom for their daughter or sister.\n\nMr. Gandhirajan, who is a post-graduate in Art History from Madurai-Kamaraj University, said the ancient Tamil tradition was \"manju virattu\" (chasing bulls) or \"eruthu kattuthal\" (lassoing bulls) and it was never \"jallikattu,\" that is baiting a bull or controlling it as the custom obtained today. In ancient Tamil country, during the harvest festival, decorated bulls would be let loose on the \"peru vazhi\" (highway) and the village youth would take pride in chasing them and outrunning them. Women, elders and children would watch the fun from the sidelines of the \"peru vazhi\" or streets. Nobody was injured in this. Or the village youth would take delight in lassoing the sprinting bulls with \"vadam\" (rope).\n\nIt was about 500 years ago, after the advent of the Nayak rule in Tamil Nadu with its Telugu rulers and chieftains, that this harmless bull-chasing sport metamorphosed into \"jallikattu,\" said Mr. Gandhirajan. \nThe ancient Tamil art of unarmed bullfighting, popular amongst warriors in the classical period, has also survived in parts of Tamil Nadu, notably Alanganallur near Madurai, where it is known as Jallikattu and is held once a year around the time of the Pongal festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "3457911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3457911", "title": "Tamil diaspora", "text": "Tamil diaspora\n\nThe Tamil diaspora refers to descendants of the Tamil immigrants who emigrated from their native lands to other parts of the world. They are found primarily in Malaysia, Singapore, South Africa, Réunion, Mauritius, Europe, North America, and parts of the Caribbean, South America (Guyana, Suriname and French Guiana) \n\nMany of Tamil emigrants who left shores of Tamil Nadu before 18th Century and mixed with countless other ethnicities. In medieval period Tamilians emigrated as soldiers, traders and labourers settled in Kerala (specially Palakkad), Karnataka, Maharashtra, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia and intermixed well with local population, while few communities still maintain their language and culture. Many groups still claim descent from medieval-era Tamil emigrants such as the Thigalas, Hebbars of Karnataka who have resided in Karnataka for generations have even adopted Kannada as their mother tongue, Kaikadis of Maharashtra, Chittys of Malaysia and the Sri Lankan Chetties, Bharatha people, some section of the Sri Lankan Tamils of Sri Lanka.\n\nAn early emigrant group that is not well documented is the Tamil Muslims who emigrated in considerable numbers to the Sultanate of Malacca (in present-day Malaysia) and were instrumental in spreading Islam amongst the indigenous Malays. Some are descended from immigrants from land of Arabia (Middle East), though it is not known which part of the Arab world they are from.\n\nDuring this period British, Dutch, French, Portuguese and Danish colony administrators recruited a lot of local Tamilians and took them to their overseas colonies to work as laborers, petty administration officers, clerical and military duties.\n\nIn the 19th century, Madras Presidency (of which the Tamil Nadu region was a core part of) faced brutal famines. Great Famine of 1876–78. Tamil Nadu was both politically and economically weak. Britishers thus made use of hungry Tamil workers for their plantations all over the world - Malaysia, Singapore, Myanmar, Mauritius, South Africa, Fiji and also Sri Lanka (distinct from the Tamils who migrated to Sri Lanka before 18th century). Some of the Tamil groups (especially Chettiyars, Pillais, Muslims) emigrated as commercial migrants. These groups then dominated the trade and finance in Myanmar, Malaysia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Mauritius, South Africa and other places. The first Indian to own a merchant ship during the British times comes from this group.\n\nThese Tamilians well integrated, assimilated with their adopted countries, and became part and parcel of local populations in Mauritius, South Africa, Guyana, and Fiji. Where as Karnataka Tamils of Karnataka, Indian Tamils of Sri Lanka of Sri Lanka, and Tamil Malaysians of Malaysia were evolved into distinct communities of their own with unique multilingual sub-culture and identity.\n\nMany also left to work in the possessions of the French Empire via its holdings in Pondichéry in Réunion and the French Caribbean islands of Martinique and Guadeloupe (See Malabars). A small group was hired by the Dutch colonial government in Dutch East Indies (present-day Indonesia) to work in Sumatra (namely in Medan). Roughly about 40,000 (est) descendants of these immigrants are still found in Medan.\n\nMany independent Tamil merchant guilds such as the Nagarathar also left for these areas in an age old tradition of their ancestors who had traded in these areas for the last 2,000 years. Britain also hired many Sri Lankan Tamils as clerical and other white collar workers, especially in Malaysia and Singapore. All these different streams have combined to create vibrant Tamil communities in these countries.\n\nAlso many Tamils from India and Sri Lanka migrated to Crown colony of Singapore and British Malaya as labours, army clerks and merchants.\n\nDuring and after the devastating WW2 a large number of Tamils and other Indians from Burma fled to India- to Manipur, and Tamil Nadu. They established Burmese refugee colonies that still exist today and maintain an identity as Burmese returnees. In Sri Lanka the Sinhalese nationalist SLFP party disfranchised all Indian origin Indian Tamils of Sri Lanka and returned 600,000 back to India under the Srimavo-Shastri Pact signed between India and Sri Lanka. Many were repatriated to the Nilgiris region's tea estates. They too maintain a distinct identity as Ceylon returnees in Tamil Nadu. Black July has created another stream of Sri Lankan and Indian Tamils of Sri Lanka refugees in India who have languished for the last 20 years in refugee camps throughout Tamil Nadu while many others have integrated with the mainstream community or left India for other countries in the west.\n\nThere is also a movement of native Sri Lankan Tamils to India; some migrated to do white-collar jobs during the British days, but there has been a much bigger diaspora today.\n\nThe Sri Lankan Tamil diaspora is less than 100 years old and was well established in Malaysia, Singapore and England prior to the post 1983 Black July induced dispersal of refugees and asylum claimants in India, Europe, and Canada. Although relatively recent in origin, this subgroup had well-established communities in these host countries prior to the 1983 pogroms. A more recent Sri Lankan Tamil community has developed rapidly in the United States.\n\nIn the second half of the 20th century, Tamils from India migrated as skilled professionals to various parts of India and countries like UAE, Qatar, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, UK, USA, Singapore and so on. Some of them got citizenship of respective countries but still having strong family and cultural ties with Tamil Nadu, than those who migrated before 1950, who lost touch with their ancestral links in Tamil Nadu.\n\nWith reference to Mainland Africa, There is a significant amount of Tamils in Africa, Especially Kenya. Kenya holds at least 30% of the Tamilians in the Country followed by Uganda. Most of these people are Migrants while some of them have been living there for generations.\n\nTamil migration to South Africa started as from 1860, first as indentured labour and in the first batch 340 Tamils were there. Now there are more than 250,000 Tamils spread over in many cities, the concentration being in Natal and Durban.\n\nIn South Africa the Tamil Language can be taken in many Schools as a Second Additional Language, It is recognised as a level 4 subject and carries points for entrance into university.\n\nMauritius has a Tamil population of 115,000. Most arrived from Tamil Nadu after 1727 to serve as labourers on the sugar cane plantations. Tamil culture has flourished in Mauritius. Since 1727, the Tamil community has built almost 125 Tamil temples and Murugan is a popular deity. Tamil holidays and festivals such as Tamil New Year, Pongal, Timiti and Thaipusam are celebrated on a national level. Thiruvalluvar and Bharathi days are also celebrated while Deepavali, Thaipusam, Maha Shivaratri and Pongal are public holidays. But most of the people in Mauritius do not speak Tamil.\n\nThe Tamil language is taught in approximately 100 primary schools. Tamils are attempting to include their religion and other Hindu practices. Once Tamil priests came from Jaffna in Sri Lanka, they conducted prayers in Tamil. Later, some scholars started to facilitate the population to get access to sacred books. This helped the people to learn Tamil holy Enchantment from Thevarams and Thiruvasagam\n\nTamil settlement in the French department of Réunion started as far back as 1848 as indentured labour, mainly from Pondichéry and Karaikal, the French territories in Southern India. There are now about 120,000 Tamils living in Réunion or \"Malabars\" as they are known there with a large number of Hindu temples run by voluntary organisations where Hindu and Tamil cultural links are preserved well.\n\nTamil traders from Pondicherry used to visit the Seychelles for purposes of timber trade followed by settlements of Tamils from Tamil Nadu for trading purposes. Later, a trading community was in place here mainly of Tamils and many of them got integrated with the local community. Now there about 4000 Tamils in the trading business as well as in other professions.\n\nCanada has a large concentration of Sri Lankan Tamils, almost 90% of the Tamil population - amounting to 300,000. Tamil is taught from primary to pre-university level and 75% of them learn the language with interest. The cultural needs of the community are catered to well by round the clock radio/television channels and by numerous Tamil publications - literary and religious. Several Canadian universities contain large Tamil Student Associations (TSAs).\n\nThere are many more pro-active voluntary organisations keeping the Tamil culture alive. Toronto is home to the largest Tamil-speaking population outside Asia.\nCentral New Jersey contains the largest population concentration of Indian Americans of Tamil descent. Sizeable populations of Indian American Tamils have also settled in New York City, and New Jersey and New York house separate Tamil Sangams. The Washington, D.C. metropolitan area on the East Coast as well as Silicon Valley on the West Coast also have Tamil associations. On the other hand, the New York City and Los Angeles metropolitan areas and Central New Jersey are home to the largest concentrations of Tamil-speaking Sri Lankan Americans.\n\nTamil migration to the French West Indies was mainly sailings from Pondicherry and Karaikal during the years 1853 to 1883 and since 1893 almost all of them got well integrated with the people there. Presently a microscopic minority of 17 who are in the age range 60-70 could speak the Tamil language.\n\nGuyana had a large number of Tamils in its plantations since 1838. Most of them were from Madras and in 1860, 2500 from Madras alone settled there. Tamils were spread in about 60 towns. There is also a popular Mariamma temple. The current Prime Minister of Guyana, Moses Nagamootoo is of Tamil descent.\n\nTamils have been in Trinidad and Tobago since the 1840s. The first Tamils arrived in Trinidad and Tobago as indentured laborers who were brought by the British to work on the sugarcane and other agricultural estates. There was a Shiva temple called the \"Madras Sivalayam\" or the Caura Road temple. The Deepavali celebration by the Tamils there displayed extraordinary pluralism.\n\nA large community of Tamils exists in Karachi, Pakistan, which includes approximately 1,000 Tamil-speaking Hindus as well as much larger numbers of Muslims - including some refugees from northern Sri Lanka. Tamil festivals such as Pongal, Panguni uthiram, and Thaipoosam are celebrated in Pakistan.\n\nBurma had a Tamil population of 200,000 at one point in the country's history but since the end of the Second World War the number has fallen. The affluence of the Tamil community could be gauged by the existence of Dandayuthapani temples in 32 towns, the functioning of 50 Tamil primary schools, and the circulation of two Tamil newspapers, \"Rasika Ranjani\" and \"Thondan\", both of which were banned as of 1966.\n\nTamils were brought to Indonesia by the Dutch in the 1860s to build up their plantations. They were used as hard labor, and as the conditions were not conducive many returned in the 1940s. About 30,000 to 40,000 remained in Northern Sumatra, and as a result, there remained a concentration of Tamils in that region.\n\nMalaysia has a Tamil population of 1,800,000 making up 6.3% of the Malaysian population as of 2018 starting mainly from 1901 when it was called British Malaya. Initially the migration was to work in the rubber plantations but later turned to trade and other professions mostly in the government sector such as the railways and the Public Works Department. The first Tamil school was there as early as 1876 but by 1925 it rose to 235 and by 2018 they had 530 schools. Due to intense brain drain and citizenship problems, there is an estimated 250-300,000 Tamils which are yet to be recognized by the Government of Malaysia.\n\nSingapore is home to about 500,000 Tamil people. Tamil Language is one of the four official languages in Singapore. An estimation of about 3.2% percent of the total population in Singapore speaks Tamil at home, while about 5% is literate in Tamil language. Almost all official documents printed in Singapore are translated and distributed in Tamil as well as three other national languages. In 1956, the Singapore government decided to adopt a trilingual policy. Students were taught English, a second language, as well as Malay as a third language. Today the emphasis has shifted to bilingualism, where the medium of instruction is English with the mother-tongue as a second language, while the third language is optional.\n\nTamil is taught as a second language in all government schools from the primary to junior college levels. Tamil is an examinable subject at all major nationwide exams. There is a daily Tamil newspaper printed in Singapore, the \"Tamil Murasu\". There is a full-time radio station, Oli 96.8, and a full-fledged TV channel, Vasantham.\n\nSepoy troops from Madras (now Chennai, Tamil Nadu), arrived in Manila, Philippines with the British expedition and occupation between 1762 and 1764 during the Seven Years' War. When the British withdrew, many of the Sepoys mutinied and refused to leave. Virtually all had taken Filipina brides (or soon did so). They settled in what is now Cainta, Rizal, just east of Metro Manila. The region in and around Cainta still has many Sepoy descendants.\n\nVietnam has a small minority of about 3000 Tamils mostly in the Ho Chi Minh city. Near to Bến Thành Market Dandayuthapani, Subramaniam Swamy & Mariyamman temples are there. Thailand has about 10,000 Tamils living there while there are 1,000 Tamils in Cambodia.\n\nThe Middle East is home to thousands of migrants from Tamil Nadu and Sri Lanka, and over 75.000 migrants immigrated to the Middle East in 2012 alone. However, statistics on the numbers of migrants are scarce.\n\nQatar is the home for about 4,000 Tamils mostly from Tamil Nadu. In December 2000, the \"Qatar Tamil Sangam\" was inaugurated for conducting Tamil cultural programmes, teaching of Thirukkural and for conducting Tamil elocution contests for Tamil children.\n\nThere are about 450,000 Tamils in the United Arab Emirates having come from Tamil Nadu as professionals and workers in many sectors. Pongal and New Year are celebrated on a grand scale in Dubai and in a few other states. The first Tamil newspaper from the Middle East region was launched from Dubai on 10 December 2014. Tamil 89.4 FM radio is a Tamil radio broadcasting from Dubai, UAE.\n\nBahrain is home for over 7000 Tamils mostly professionals and workers. Saudi Arabia and Kuwait are also home for a substantial number of Tamils who are recent migrants.\n\nThe first Tamil immigrant to Norway, Anthony Rajendram, came to Norway in 1956. The majority of the early immigrants had contacts to Rajendram, and came as immigrant worker. Most had their origins in a few villages on the edge of Jaffna town such as Gurunagar, Ariyalai and Navanthurai. This first group was a starting point for future immigration to Norway.\nNorway has about 13,000 Tamils most of whom are Sri Lankan refugees. The city of Bergen is the home for about 400 Tamil families and it has become the centre for Tamil gatherings. Around 7,000 Tamils also live in the capital Oslo. Sweden has a Tamil population of about 2,000 and is of recent origin.\n\nCommunity estimates suggest that 150,000 Tamils lived in the United Kingdom (UK) , with a 2006 Human Rights Watch report putting the number of Sri Lankan Tamils in the UK at 110,000. Migration of significant numbers of Tamils to the UK started with labour migrants in the 1940s. These were joined by students moving to the UK for education in the 1970s, and by refugees fleeing the Sri Lankan Civil War in the 1980s and 1990s. The majority live in North London.\n\nAbout 57,600 Tamils live in France. The first Tamils to arrive in France came from Pondichéry when it was still a French colony. However, a majority of Parisian Tamils are of Sri Lankan origin who fled the country and came to France as refugees in the 1980s, escaping the violent civil conflict.\n\nGermany has well over 50,000 Tamils and more than half of them went as refugees from Sri Lanka. Religious fervour among Tamil Germans intensified as their numbers swelled. Due to the inspirational encouragement of Hawaii Subramaniaswami – the disciple of Yoga Swamigal – two well organised Hindu temples – Sidhivinayagar Kovil and the kamadchi Amman Kovil –have in place in the city of Hamm since 1984. According to the journal Hinduism Today, the youth are being well trained in their religion and culture at home and in weekend schools in rented halls using texts from Sri Lanka. They even wear Hindu symbols of Vibuthi and Tilakam.\n\nSwitzerland has about 40,000 Tamils the majority of whom are from Sri Lanka who went as refugees. Although they are well entrenched in the country and integrated with the local community, yet they are actively alive to their Hindu religious and Tamil cultural links.\n\nTemples, cultural festivals, international conferences, seminars and meetings draw a large number of the Tamil diaspora from other European countries to the various Swiss cities, so much so that it has become the nerve centre of Tamil cultural activism. Tamil language classes, dance and music classes run by voluntary bodies are fast increasing.\n\nA large Tamil community was established in Zurich with a place known as little Jaffna. \nHowever most of the Tamils reside in the German part of Switzerland.\n\nDenmark has over 7,000 Tamils, the majority being refugees. There are two well-patronised Hindu temples – one for Vinayagar and another for Abhirami – and the Tamil population has got well adapted to the Danish environment. The Netherlands also has more than 20,000 Tamils, the majority of whom are, again, refugees from Sri Lanka.\n\nThere are officially about 72,000 Tamils in Australia spread out in all the six states but the concentration is mainly in the states of New South Wales and Victoria. However, the actual number of ethnic Tamils is possibly double this amount and could be estimated at around 100,000. Among this 40% are from Sri Lanka and 35% are from India. The remainder come from various countries like Malaysia, Singapore, Canada, USA, South Africa, Fiji and Mauritius. More than 80% have completed high school education compared to 78% (2010) for the general Australian population. More than 15% own their houses while more than 30% of the general population own their houses.\n\nNumerous Tamil schools and Hindu Temples have been established in all main cities to cater for the growing Sri Lankan Tamil population. The Sydney Murugan Temple was constructed for the needs of the large Tamil population in Western Sydney. Smaller temples have been built in the greater Sydney area. The Siva Vishnu Temple in Carrum Downs south east of Melbourne is also a temple built by Sri Lankan Tamils. The Sunshine Murugan Temple in western Melbourne also caters to the Tamil community. In other cities such as Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Townsville, Darwin, Canberra and Hobart, Hindu temples have also been built.\n\nThe Tamil language is one of the approved subjects for the HSC examination and Tamil skill tests are conducted for children of ages five to sixteen.\n\nNew Zealand has about 6,800 Tamils, mostly professionals who have migrated on their own.\n\nFiji had a Tamil population of over 110,000 having been taken there to work in the plantations by the colonial masters in the 1880s. Out of an Indian population of 350,000 the Tamils could number about 80,000 now.\n\nThe number who could speak is about 5,000 only and another 1,000 could write. It is only about 6,000 who declare their origins as Tamils as most of them have got well integrated with the local population. Most of them have lost their Tamil identity and are Tamils only in name. The South Indian Sanmarga Sangam is the pioneer body that forged the Tamil culture, Tamil education and the Hindu practices in the country for a long time. In 2005, it was revealed that in the 20 primary schools managed by TISI, out of the 4940 students, 1765 took Tamil classes.\n\nThere are about 500 New Caledonians of Indian Tamil descent. Like in Réunion, they were known as Malabars and orinignally arrived in the 19th century from other French Territories, namely Réunion. New Caledonia has several descendants of Tamils, whose parents intermarried with the local population in the last century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31554388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31554388", "title": "Taruma language", "text": "Taruma language\n\nTaruma (\"Taruamá\") is a divergent language of northeastern Brazil. It has been reported to be extinct several times since as far back as 1770, but Eithne Carlin discovered the last speakers, and is documenting the language. It would seem that \"Saluma\" is the same language.\n\nTaruma is unclassified. It has been proposed to be distantly related to Katembri (Kaufman 1990), but this relationship has not been repeated in recent surveys of South American languages (Campbell & Grondona 2012).\n\n"}
{"id": "35297721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35297721", "title": "Thakali language", "text": "Thakali language\n\nThakali is a Sino-Tibetan language of Nepal spoken by the Thakali people, mainly in the Myagdi and Mustang Districts. Its dialects have limited mutual intelligibility.\n\nSeke (Tangbe, Tetang, Chuksang) is sometimes considered a separate language. Other names and dialect names are Barhagaule, Marpha, Panchgaunle, Puntan Thakali, Syang, Tamhang Thakali, Thaksaatsaye, Thaksatsae, Thaksya, Tukuche, Yhulkasom.\n\nThakali is spoken in the middle of the Kali Gandaki River valley and in the upper part of the Kali Gandaki Gorge (also known as Thak Khola), in Mustang District, Dhawalagiri Zone. The Thakali area is bounded by Annapurna Himal on one side and Dhawalagiri Himal on the other, with Tatopani village in the south and Jomsom in the north (\"Ethnologue\").\n\nThe Tukuche dialect is spoken from Tukuche to Thaksatsae, in 13 villages: Tukuche, Khanti, Kobang, Larjung, Dampu, Naurikot, Bhurjungkot, Nakung, Tithi, Kunjo, Taglung, Lete, Ghansa. Many live outside the area.\n\nSeke is spoken in Chuksang, Tsaile, Tangbe, Tetang, and Gyakar villages of Mustang District, Dhawalagiri Zone.\n\n\"Ethnologue\" lists the following dialects of Thakali.\n\n\nSeke has the following dialects.\n\n"}
{"id": "48438530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48438530", "title": "Thero Wheeler", "text": "Thero Wheeler\n\nThero Lavon Wheeler (1945–2009) was one of the founding members of the Symbionese Liberation Army.\n\nWheeler was born in Schulenburg, Texas, on January 28, 1945. His mother was Ethel Mae Anderson and his father was John Henry Wheeler. He grew up in San Francisco's Filmore and Western Addition areas, and had two brothers, one a police officer.\n\nHe was convicted of assault and robbery at age 17.\n\nHe was serving a one-year-to-life sentence. In prison, he began studying politics. A convict organizer, he was known as a \"jailhouse lawyer.\" He read Engels, Marx and Lenin. He had joined and then, with critiques, resigned from the Black Panthers and a Maoist group. Wheeler met some activists from University of California, Berkeley while he was in Vacaville prison. Through this group, he met his girlfriend at that time, a young heiress who went by the name of Mary Alice Siem.\n\nIn August 1973, the early SLA clique apparently engineered the escape of Thero Wheeler, providing transportation and a change of clothes after Wheeler walked away from Vacaville prison. Wheeler later said his friends who aided his escape were \"well-connected\". He joined DeFreeze and \"a curious group of upper middle-class whites, most college-educated but menially employed\" at a small house in Oakland. Curiously, there appeared to be no manhunt by the authorities for Wheeler after his escape.\n\nClose friends say he split with the SLA over the Foster murder, under death threat after he called DeFreeze a \"drunken fool.\"\n\nOn 4 May 1974, an article appeared in The Pittsburgh Courier quoting Mary Alice Siem. She had originally spoken to The San Francisco Examiner. She said that she had left the SLA due to death threats from DeFreeze:\n\nHowever, there are some discrepancies.\n\nAfter Patty Hearst was kidnapped, a number of eyewitnesses contributed to identikit composite sketches of the men they had seen. The drawings both appeared to resemble DeFreeze and Wheeler so closely that police were soon able to attach names to these sketches.\n\nWheeler moved to Texas and changed his name to Bradley Bruce. He relied on electronics skills learned in prison to gain employment. He formed a relationship with a woman and they had a daughter. His cover was blown while interceding in a dispute. When he sought hospital treatment, his alias was fed into a computer and the FBI arrested him. He was returned to California to face escape charges and continue serving his previous term.\n\nIn 1976 he married Cynthia Spencer.\n\nWheeler appeared in some 2005 San Francisco local newspapers as a recipient of free eyeglasses through a program known as Project Connect. In those articles, Wheeler was described as a Vietnam War veteran.\n\nWheeler died on March 2, 2009, in San Francisco.\n"}
{"id": "30006517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30006517", "title": "Tibetan Language Institute", "text": "Tibetan Language Institute\n\nThe Tibetan Language Institute is a private, non-profit educational organization located in Hamilton, Montana. Its mission is to present classes, seminars, workshops, and public lectures on Tibetan language, literature, and philosophy for the purpose of preserving Tibetan culture and enriching one's study of the Dharma. The main program of study is a series of classes in the Tibetan lanaguage (available via distance learning or through private tutoring in person).\n\n"}
{"id": "11637763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11637763", "title": "Wazir (Pashtun tribe)", "text": "Wazir (Pashtun tribe)\n\nThe Wazirs or Waziris () are a Karlani Pashtun tribe found mainly in the Pakistan-Afghanistan border region of North and South Waziristan. The Utmanzai are settled in the North Waziristan Agency and the Ahmadzai are in the South Waziristan Agency. Those subgroups are in turn divided further, for example into Utmanzai tribes such as the Baka Khel and Jani Khel. The Wazirs speak the Waziristani dialect of Pashto.\n\nThe common ancestor of the Ahmadzai and Utmanzai is believed by them to be the eponymous Wazir, who is also ancestor to the Mehsud tribe that has since taken a distinct and divergent path. Through Wazir, the tribes trace their origins to Karlani and thence to the founder of the Pashtun lineage, Qais Abdur Rashid. Some western ethnologists consider them of being mix of Arachosian or Tatar ethnicity.\n\nAlthough the Utmanzai and Mehsud tribes have a traditional rivalry and live in geographically distinct regions, the Ahamdzai and Mehsud communities co-exist peacefully and many head men are connected by marriage.\n"}
