{"id": "10059398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10059398", "title": "1931 Belgian Grand Prix", "text": "1931 Belgian Grand Prix\n\nThe 1931 Belgian Grand Prix was a Grand Prix motor race held at Spa-Francorchamps on 12 July 1931.\n"}
{"id": "45402793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45402793", "title": "1984 TAM – Transportes Aéreos Regionais Bandeirante accident", "text": "1984 TAM – Transportes Aéreos Regionais Bandeirante accident\n\nOn 28 June 1984 an Embraer EMB-110 Bandeirante operated by TAM – Transportes Aéreos Regionais crashed in Brazil with eighteen people on board. There were no survivors.\n\nThe Embraer EMB-110 Bandeirante, with registration PP-SBC, operated by Brazilian airline TAM – Transportes Aéreos Regionais, crashed in to a hillside during let-down to land at Macaé.\n\nThe Bandeirante was on a domestic charter flight from Rio de Janeiro-Galeão to Macaé when it flew into São João Hill while descending through rain and clouds over the Municipality of São Pedro da Aldeia. All 16 passengers and 2 crew died.\n\nThe aircraft had been chartered by Brazil's state oil company Petrobras. Fourteen passengers were members of television crews from four different Brazilian networks, who were being taken to the Campos Basin oil field to prepare a special report; the other two passengers were employees of Petrobras.\n\nThe crew cancelled the aircraft's flight plan, which had specified operating under Instrument Flight Rules, and descended visually (under Visual Flight Rules); the aircraft hit a hill and was destroyed by the impact and subsequent fire.\n\nThe crew had attempted to descend in bad weather, rain and low clouds; and the International Civil Aviation Authority Accident Summary states that \"[the crew] exercised poor judgement [and] failed to see and avoid objects...[a] poorly planned [approach] and disregard of good operating practice, were factors.\"\n"}
{"id": "413532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=413532", "title": "Albertopolis", "text": "Albertopolis\n\nAlbertopolis is the nickname given to the area centred on Exhibition Road in London, named after Prince Albert, spouse of Queen Victoria. It contains a large number of educational and cultural sites. It is in South Kensington, split between the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea and the City of Westminster (the border running along Imperial College Road), and the area bordered by Cromwell Road to the south and Kensington Road to the north.\n\nInstitutions in and around Albertopolis include:\n\n\nThe following were originally institutions in their own right:\n\n\nInstitutions formerly in Albertopolis include:\n\n\nMore recent additions to Albertopolis include:\n\n\nFollowing the advice of Prince Albert the area was purchased by the Royal Commission for the Exhibition of 1851 with the profits made from the Great Exhibition of 1851, which was held in a site in Hyde Park nearby to the north-east. This is commemorated in the name of the principal north-south street laid out on their estate, Exhibition Road.\n\nPrince Albert was a driving force behind the Great Exhibition and President of the Royal Commission, and the name \"Albertopolis\" seems to have been coined in the 1850s to celebrate and somewhat satirise his role in Victorian cultural life. After his death the term fell into disuse, and the area was more widely referred to as South Kensington. It was revived by architectural historians in the 1960s and popularised by the nascent conservation movement to bring attention to the complex of public Victorian buildings and the surrounding houses built on the Commissioners' estate, that were threatened with demolition by the expansion and redevelopment plans of Imperial College. Among the buildings threatened was the Imperial Institute, designed by T. E. Collcutt.\n\nThere is a central axis between the Albert Memorial in Kensington Gardens to the north and the central portal of the south façade of the Natural History Museum. The Royal Albert Hall, Royal College of Music, the former tower of the otherwise-demolished Imperial Institute (now the Queen's Tower of Imperial College London) and the 1950s rear extension to the Science Museum are all aligned on this axis, which cannot be seen on the ground. This regular geometric alignment of Albertopolis can be observed readily only from the balconies of the Queen's Tower (very rarely open to visitors), although the northern part can be glimpsed from the top floor of the Science Museum.\n\nThe closest tube station is South Kensington, linked to the museums by the South Kensington Subway, a tiled tunnel beneath Exhibition Road constructed in 1885. The subway was originally intended to go as far as the Royal Albert Hall, but the construction of the Imperial Institute meant the tunnel emerged at the Science Museum where it exits onto Exhibition Road. Originally only opened during exhibitions in South Kensington, it was opened to the public free of charge in 1908. The subway is Grade II listed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22640935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22640935", "title": "Algerian legislative election, 1977", "text": "Algerian legislative election, 1977\n\nElections to the new People's National Assembly were held in Algeria on 25 February 1977. They were the first parliamentary elections since 1964, as the previous National Assembly had been dissolved in 1965, and were held as a result of the country's new constitution and electoral law being promulgated the year before.\n\nThe new Assembly had 261 members, elected from 160 constituencies (\"daira\"). Constituencies with less than 80,000 inhabitants had one representative; constituencies with more than 80,000 residents had one extra representative for every 20,000 inhabitants over 80,000.\n\nAs the country was a one-party state at the time, the National Liberation Front was the only party to run in the election. It put forward 783 candidates (of which 39 were women), and claimed all 261 seats (nine of which went to female candidates). 6,037,537 of the country's 7,960,000 registered voters (75.84%) took part in the election.\n"}
{"id": "35961080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35961080", "title": "Ali: An American Hero", "text": "Ali: An American Hero\n\nAli: An American Hero is an American television film which aired on August 31, 2000 on FOX. It chronicles portions of the career of heavyweight boxer Muhammad Ali, who is portrayed by David Ramsey.\n\nCassius Clay (David Ramsey), winner of the gold medal for boxing in the light heavyweight division at the 1960 Summer Olympics, rises in the professional ranks and defeats heavyweight boxing champion Sonny Liston in a stunning upset to capture the title in 1964. Controversy surrounds his decision to join the Nation of Islam, his name change from Cassius Clay to Muhammad Ali, his friendship with Malcolm X (Joe Morton), and his conscientious objection to the draft during the Vietnam War. Stripped of his title, he eventually recaptures it in 1974 in the so-called \"Rumble in the Jungle\"—an epic bout against George Foreman in Zaire.\n\n\n\"Ali: An American Hero\" was released on DVD on January 27, 2004.\n"}
{"id": "55257518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55257518", "title": "Amity-enmity complex", "text": "Amity-enmity complex\n\nThe amity-enmity complex was a term introduced by Sir Arthur Keith. His work, \"A New Theory of Human Evolution\" (1948), posited that humans evolved as differing races, tribes, and cultures, exhibiting patriotism, morality, leadership and nationalism. Those who belong are part of the in-group, and tolerated; all others are classed as out-group, and subject to hostility; 'The code of enmity is a necessary part of the machinery of evolution. He who feels generous towards his enemy... has given up his place in the turmoil of evolutionary competition.' Conscience in humans evolved a duality; to protect and save friends,\nand also to hate and fight enemies. \nKeith's work summarized earlier opinions on human tribalism by Charles Darwin, Alfred Russel Wallace, and Herbert Spencer.\n\n\nThe amity-enmity complex maintains 'tribal spirit' and thus unity, of the community, 'as long as personal contact between its members is possible.' If the community grows beyond this limitation, then disruption, swarming and disintegration occur. Modern mass communication enables communities 'of 100 million' to remain intact.\n\nKeith expressed regret that this phenomenon, which explains so much, had not become common knowledge: \"[W]e eternally experience the misery... of each new manifestation of the complex, then invent some new 'ism' to categorise this behavior as an evil, dealing with a common behavioural trait piecemeal [instead of] finally grasping and understanding the phenomenon.\"\n\nColleges, sports teams, churches, trades unions, female fashions and political parties enable people to exhibit tribal loyalty within large, mass-communicating nations. 'In politics we have to take sides.' But all these 'petty manifestations' are cast aside in time of war.\nBismarck, Abraham Lincoln and Lloyd George are cited as statesmen who knew how to exploit the tribal spirit for political ends.\n\nRobert Ardrey pointed out that similar behavior can be observed in most primates, especially baboons and chimps. \"Nationalism as such is no more than a human expression of the animal drive to maintain and defend a territory... the mentality of the single Germanic tribe under Hitler differed in no way from that of early man or late baboon.\"\n\nThe amity-enmity complex is a serious obstacle to world peace and world government, and may even lead to nuclear holocaust: \"How can we get along without war?... if we fail to get along without war, the future will be as lacking in human problems as it will be remarkably lacking in men.\"\n\nDesmond Morris makes a prescriptive point: \"We must try to step outside our groups and look down on human battlefields with the unbiased eye of a hovering Martian.\" And he warns that \"the truly violent species all appear to have exterminated themselves, a lesson we should not overlook.\" The inherited aggression of the amity-enmity rivalry between communities is rationalized under a \"persistent cloak of ideology... a matter of ideals, moral principles, social philosophies or religious beliefs... [O]nly an immense amount of intellectual restraint will save the situation.\"\n\nAfter World War Two, a debate about the place of instinct and learning (the nature-versus-nurture debate) has occurred. According to Steven Pinker, the \"bitter lessons of lynchings, world wars, and the Holocaust\" have caused \"prevailing theories of mind\" to be \"refashioned to make racism and sexism as untenable as possible. The doctrine of the blank slate became entrenched in intellectual life.\"\n\nPinker makes the point that \"conflicts of interest are inherent to the human condition.\" Man is a product of nature, as much as malarial mosquitoes; both \"are doing exactly what evolution designed them to do, even if the outcome makes people suffer... [We] cannot call their behavior pathological... [T]he belief that violence is an aberration is dangerous.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2810850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2810850", "title": "Angol", "text": "Angol\n\nAngol is a commune and capital city of the Malleco Province in the Araucanía Region of southern Chile. It is located at the foot of the Nahuelbuta Range and next to the Vergara River, that permitted communications by small boats to the Bío-Bío River and Concepción. This strategic position explains the successive foundations of this city during the Arauco War. It was first founded in 1553 as a \"conquistador\" fort of \"Confines\", the fort was later destroyed and rebuilt several times and it was not until the Pacification of Araucania in the late 19th century that it was rebuilt with the name of Angol. The city has a current population of approximately 49,000. Within the electoral divisions of Chile, it belongs to the 48th electoral district and the 14th senatorial circumscription.\n\nModern Angol was first founded in 1553 as the conquistador fort of \"Los Confines\" by Pedro de Valdivia, the fort was later that year abandoned and destroyed by the Mapuche after the Battle of Tucapel. In 1560, the city was established by Governor García Hurtado de Mendoza with the name of \"San Andrés de Angol\", after his father the viceroy of Peru, the location to the north of the site of the old fort. It was commonly called \"Ciudad de Los Infantes\" for the infantrymen that had been assigned to build the city.\n\nIt was attacked and destroyed in 1599, by the Mapuches following the Disaster of Curalaba. In 1611 the city was rebuilt by Luis Merlo de la Fuente a little more to the south with the name of \"San Luis de Angol\" but it did not prosper. In 1637 Governor Francisco Laso de la Vega, refounded it with the name of \"San Francisco de la Vega\", but in 1641, it was abandoned by the terms of the Peace of Quillin with the Mapuche. It was repopulated by Tomás Marín de Poveda in 1695, with the name of \"Santo Tomás de Colhue\", but it was attacked and destroyed again in the Mapuche Rising of 1723 and one last time in their rising in 1766, from which it never recovered.\n\nThe present city of Angol was founded definitively by Cornelio Saavedra Rodríguez, on 6 December 1862 as a fortress and base for his campaign for the Pacification of Araucania. Declared a city in 1871, it was connected by railroad with Santiago in 1876. In 1881 it was the base for the final campaign of pacification. Subsequently, it was the economic and administrative center and departure point for the Chilean and foreign colonists that occupied the lands around it.\n\nAngol was affected by the 8.8 magnitude 27 February 2010 earthquake. A US military field hospital was deployed to the city to treat casualties from the tremblor and subsequent tsunami.\n\nLíder will be the first hypermarket to open business in the city while Cencosud's Santa Isabel supermarkets is also considering entering the market.\n\nAccording to the 2002 census by the National Statistics Institute (\"INE\"), Angol spans and at that time had 48,996 inhabitants; of these, 43,801 (89.4%) lived in urban areas and 5,195 (10.6%) in rural areas. At that time, there were 23,770 men and 25,226 women. The population grew by 6.0% (2,770 persons) between the 1992 and 2002 censuses.\n\nAs a commune, Angol is a third-level administrative division of Chile administered by a municipal council, headed by an alcalde who is directly elected every four years. The 2008-2012 alcalde is Enrique Neira Neira (ILE).\n\nWithin the electoral divisions of Chile, Angol is represented in the Chamber of Deputies by Nicolas Ardiles (UDI) and Mario Venegas (PDC) as part of the 48th electoral district, (together with Renaico, Collipulli, Ercilla, Los Sauces, Purén, Lumaco and Traiguén). The commune is represented in the Senate by Alberto Espina Otero (RN) and Jaime Quintana Leal (PPD) as part of the 14th senatorial constituency (Araucanía-North).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14991494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14991494", "title": "Angola–Cuba Declaration of 1984", "text": "Angola–Cuba Declaration of 1984\n\nIn the Angola–Cuba Declaration of 1984, signed 19 March 1984 in Havana by president José Eduardo Dos Santos of Angola and Fidel Castro, premier of Cuba, the two countries agreed to the withdrawal of Cuban forces from Angola after the withdrawal of South African troops from Angola and Namibia, and after UN-Security Council resolution 435 on Namibian independence was strictly applied.\n\nSoon after getting independence from Portugal in 1975, civil war was fought among the three leading groups in Angola. Angola's three main guerrilla groups agreed to establish a transitional government in January 1975. Within two months, however, the FNLA, MPLA and UNITA had started fighting each other and the country began splitting into zones controlled by rival armed political groups. \n\nThe MPLA gained control of the capital Luanda and much of the rest of the country. With the support of the United States, Zaïre and South Africa intervened militarily in favour of the FNLA and UNITA with the intention of taking Luanda before the declaration of independence. In response, Cuba intervened in favor of the MPLA, which became a flash point for the Cold War. With Cuban support, the MPLA held Luanda and declared independence on 11 November 1975, with Agostinho Neto becoming the first president, though the civil war continued. José Eduardo Dos Santos became the first elected President of Angola from the MPLA-LT and continued to get the support of Cuba.\n\nAngola was a colony of Portugal for more than 400 years from the 15th century. The demand for independence in Angola picked up momentum during the early 1950s. The Portuguese régime, refused to accede to the demands for independence, provoking an armed conflict that started in 1961 when freedom fighters attacked both white and black civilians in cross-border operations in northeastern Angola, which was called the Colonial War. The principal protagonists included the People's Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA), founded in 1956, the National Front for the Liberation of Angola (FNLA), which appeared in 1961, and the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA), founded in 1966. After many years of conflict that weakened all of the insurgent parties, Angola gained its independence on 11 November 1975, after the 1974 coup d'état in Lisbon, Portugal, which overthrew the Portuguese régime headed by Marcelo Caetano.\n\nPortugal's new revolutionary leaders began in 1974 a process of political change at home and accepted independence for its former colonies abroad. In Angola a fight for dominance broke out immediately between the three nationalist movements. The events prompted a mass exodus of Portuguese citizens, creating up to 300 000 destitute Portuguese refugees—the \"retornados\". The new Portuguese government tried to mediate an understanding between the three competing movements, which was initially agreed by the movements, but later disagreed. After it gained independence in November 1975, Angola experienced a devastating civil war which lasted several decades. It claimed millions of lives and produced many refugees; it didn't end until 2002.\n\nFollowing negotiations held in Portugal, itself experiencing severe social and political turmoil and uncertainty due to the April 1974 revolution, Angola's three main guerrilla groups agreed to establish a transitional government in January 1975. Within two months, however, the FNLA, MPLA and UNITA had started fighting each other and the country began splitting into zones controlled by rival armed political groups. The MPLA gained control of the capital Luanda and much of the rest of the country. With the support of the United States, Zaïre and South Africa intervened militarily in favour of the FNLA and UNITA with the intention of taking Luanda before the declaration of independence. In response, Cuba intervened in favor of the MPLA, which became a flash point for the Cold War. With Cuban support, the MPLA held Luanda and declared independence on 11 November 1975, with Agostinho Neto becoming the first president, though the civil war continued. At this time, most of the half-million Portuguese who lived in Angola – and who had accounted for the majority of the skilled workers in public administration, agriculture, industries and trade – fled the country, leaving its once prosperous and growing economy in a state of bankruptcy.\n\nCuban intervention in Angola is believed to have started during the 1960s, but the actual deployment of troops started only by 1975 when Angola got independence from Portugal. Experts see ideological confluence between Cuba and MLPA of Angola and also the common Portuguese roots. Cuba had been supportive to Angola in resisting a series of attacks by the combined forces of South Africa and their sponsored guerillas UNITA over the oil reserves in Cabinda coast. United States were trying to broker peace by seeking systematic withdrawal of troops of Cuba from the region with the simultaneous reduction of troops by South Africa. The neutrality of US was questioned after it started supporting UNITA. President José Eduardo Dos Santos of Angola resisted pressure from United Nations for the withdrawal of troops of Cuba quoting South African attacks in Angola from 1981-85. Angola also received support in terms of teaching, construction workers and doctors, the gap left on account of migration of Whites from the nation soon after the independence. Cuban soldiers allegedly received greater acclaim in the home country and were proud to be part of the troops to Angola. There were also allegations that Cuban soldiers contracted AIDS while at Angola, but it was strongly denied.\nThe declaration was a confirmation of a joint declaration by the two governments made 4 February 1982. The declaration reaffirmed that Angola and Cuba “will resume, by their own decision and in exercise of their sovereignty, the execution of the gradual withdrawal of the Cuban internationalist military contingent as soon as the following requisites are fulfilled;\n\n"}
{"id": "55101377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55101377", "title": "Battle of Erbil (1996)", "text": "Battle of Erbil (1996)\n\nThe Battle of Erbil was a battle that took place in the city of Erbil during the Iraqi Kurdish Civil War in 1996.\n"}
{"id": "2524790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2524790", "title": "Bloody Christmas (1951)", "text": "Bloody Christmas (1951)\n\nBloody Christmas was the name given to the severe beating of seven civilians by members of the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) on December 25, 1951. The attacks, which left five Hispanic and two white young men with broken bones and ruptured organs, was only properly investigated after lobbying from the Mexican American community. The internal inquiry by Los Angeles Chief of Police William H. Parker resulted in eight police officers being indicted for the assaults, 54 being transferred, and 39 suspended. \n\nThe event was fictionalized in the 1990 novel \"L.A. Confidential\" by James Ellroy, which was made into a film of the same name in 1997.\n\nIn 1938, reforms of the LAPD were started by Mayor Frank Shaw. Throughout the 1940s, this led to corrupt officers being fired, the raising of entrance standards, the creation of rigorous training programs, and better pay for officers. \nPolice autonomy was already guaranteed in Section 202 of the Los Angeles city charter since 1934. It stated that officers had a vested right to their jobs and could not be removed or disciplined without due process, which meant that authority regarding departmental discipline belonged to a board of review made up of police officers.\nDespite the reforms, the LAPD was faced with a continual deterioration in relations with the Mexican American community that had been ongoing since the 1943 Zoot Suit Riots that took place during the Second World War. After William H. Parker was appointed chief of police in 1950, reforms continued with improving policing in Los Angeles by placing emphasis on police professionalism. Parker believed better personnel would lead to more \"police autonomy\" allowing the LAPD to focus on its \"war-on-crime approach\" to policing and for dealing with its own internal discipline. Proponents believed a professional police department should be free from political influence and control.\n\nDespite previous police chiefs trying to improve relationships by quelling public fears of Mexican American crime, community leaders hoped Parker's appointment would really lead to an improvement in the situation. Problems occurred because of anti-Mexican sentiment among LAPD officers, many of whom believed Mexican Americans were generally delinquent and violent. This racial profiling led to numerous violent encounters between the police and Mexican Americans because both sides expected the other to use force.\n\nOn Christmas Eve 1951, LAPD officers Julius Trojanowski and Nelson Brownson responded to a report that minors were drinking alcohol at the Showboat Bar on Riverside Drive. On arrival, they found inside seven men: Daniel Rodela, Elias Rodela, Jack Wilson, William Wilson, Raymond Marquez, Manuel Hernandez, and Eddie Nora. Even though the men had IDs proving they were legally old enough to drink alcohol, the officers told them to leave. When they refused to go, the officers used force which led to a fight starting in the parking lot. Both police officers were injured; one received a black eye, the other a cut that required stitches. \n\nSeven hours after the fight, LAPD officers arrested all the men at their own homes. Six were taken straight to Los Angeles' Central City Jail. But the seventh, Daniel Rodela, was dragged to a squad car by his hair and driven to the city's Elysian Park where he was savagely beaten by several police officers. Rodela suffered multiple facial fractures; he required two blood transfusions due to the extent of his injuries.\n\nOn Christmas morning, a large number of police officers attending a departmental Christmas party were getting drunk, in violation of the LAPD's policy on alcohol. When they became aware of a rumor that Trojanowski had lost an eye in the fight, the drunken officers decided to avenge their fellow policeman.\n\nThe six prisoners were taken from their cells in the Central City Jail and lined up. As many as 50 officers then participated in a beating that lasted for 95 minutes. All the prisoners received major injuries including punctured organs and broken facial bones. At least 100 people knew of or witnessed the beatings.\n\nSenior LAPD management kept the attack on the prisoners out of the mainstream news for almost three months. Media coverage ignored the beatings on Christmas Day and focused on the brawl the night before. The initial headline of the \"Los Angeles Times\" on the incident was “Officers Beaten in Bar Brawl; Seven Men Jailed”. However, as the Mexican American community pushed for a focus on police brutality and more reports of violence flooded in, the media began to turn against the LAPD, running stories condemning police tactics and even suggesting the amendment of Section 202 of the Los Angeles city charter.\n\nIn March 1952, six of the seven men were charged with battery and disturbing the peace. The prosecution argued that the fight started when the officers asked Jack Wilson to leave the bar peacefully. The defendants testified that the fight began when Officer Trojanowski began hitting Wilson on the head with a blackjack. Judge Joseph L. Call also allowed them to describe how they were beaten after being arrested. The jury found the defendants guilty of two counts of battery and one of disturbing the peace. However, after the verdict was delivered, Judge Call reprimanded the police force for its brutality, calling for an independent investigation of the assault.\n\nChief Parker's response to this criticism was defensive. The police department's \"war-on-crime\" policy had given it an \"Us versus Them\" mentality meaning if the public did not support the police force, then it supported anarchy and lawlessness. Parker used this as a defense saying that any criticism against the LAPD damaged the police’s ability to enforce the law. He even suggested that criminals were alleging police brutality in order to get him fired so the LA underworld could re-establish its illegal activities.\n\nHowever, as the internal investigation into the beatings progressed, more complaints from other incidents were reported by the media, forcing Parker to act. Eventually a 204-page internal report was compiled by the LAPD. Although it included interviews with more than 400 witnesses, many members of LAPD had tried to impede the investigation through perjury or vague testimony. The report was also contradictory because it revealed that several police officers witnessed the beatings but concluded that “none of the prisoners was physically abused in the manner alleged.”\n\nThe report led to grand jury hearings against the LAPD. Throughout the proceedings, the victims gave vivid accounts of their beatings whereas the officers’ testimonies were vague and contradictory as none could remember seeing the prisoners being beaten or remember who was taking part. Officers who had previously given detailed information to internal affairs investigators could remember very little in court.\n\nThe hearings resulted in eight officers being indicted for assault. The grand jury also issued a report that criticized the LAPD's senior officers for allowing the situation to get out of control and reminded the police department that it functioned “for the benefit of the public and not as a fraternal organization for the benefit of fellow officers.”\n\nThe eight indicted officers were tried between July and November 1952. Five of them were convicted, but only one received a sentence of more than a year in prison. A further 54 officers were transferred and 39 were temporarily suspended without pay.\n\n"}
{"id": "51505267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51505267", "title": "Bucklen Theatre", "text": "Bucklen Theatre\n\nBucklen Theatre, also known as the Elkhart Opera House, was a historic theatre located at Elkhart, Elkhart County, Indiana. It was built in 1883, and was a three-story, five bay, red brick building. It was demolished in 1986.\n\nIt was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1976 and delisted in 1986.\n"}
{"id": "4432060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4432060", "title": "Charles Nicoletti", "text": "Charles Nicoletti\n\nCharles \"Chuckie\" Anthony Nicoletti (December 3, 1916 - March 29, 1977), also known as \"The Typewriter\" and \"Chuckie Typewriter\", was a top Chicago Outfit hitman under Outfit boss Sam Giancana before and after Giancana's rise and fall.\n\nNicoletti grew up in an impoverished and dysfunctional family in Chicago; his parents were both natives of Santa Caterina Villarmosa, Sicily. They lived at 737 S. Campbell Avenue in Near West Side, Chicago. On February 25, 1929, at the age of 12, Charles shot and killed his own father, allegedly in self-defense. The 39-year-old Philip Nicoletti was a drunkard who regularly beat his wife and two sons; on this occasion, Philip viciously attacked his younger son and pursued him with a knife. According to Chicago police records, Charles ran into a bedroom, where a gun was kept in a bureau drawer. Nicoletti was exonerated by the Cook County coroner. He dropped out of school in eighth grade and soon joined the \"Forty-Two Gang.\" At the time, the gang's members included such future Outfit members as Giancana, Sam \"Teets\" Battaglia, \"Lew Farrell,\" \"Mad Sam\" DeStefano and William \"Willie Potatoes\" Daddano.\n\nBy the late 1950s, along with Felix Alderisio, Nicoletti was one of the most feared triggermen in Chicago and was drawing attention from the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Chicago police. A number of times Nicoletti and Alderisio teamed up for a \"hit,\" including one occasion on which they were discovered by police sitting on the floor in a car later dubbed \"the hitmobile\" by reporters. This car had special compartments where guns were stored and special switches to turn lights off at certain times. When questioned by police the two said they were \"waiting for a friend.\"\n\nIn 1962, Nicoletti took part in an infamous torture case. He, Alderisio, Carlo\" duke \"Olandese and Anthony Spilotro, known as \"Tony the Ant\", had kidnapped 24-year-old Billy McCarthy, a thug who had killed two Outfit associates with the help of Jimmy Miraglia, also age 24. The three men started torturing McCarthy to find out the name of his accomplice. Spilotro had placed the man's head in an industrial vice and started squeezing it tighter and tighter. Suddenly, McCarthy's eye popped completely out of its socket. At that point, he revealed his accomplice's name; then both men were killed. Years later, Tony Spilotro told this story to his friend Frank Cullotta. Spilotro was impressed by Nicoletti's reaction to the gory scene: \"Boy, this is a heartless guy. He was eating pasta when Billy's eye popped out.\" This torture scene was re-enacted in Martin Scorsese's 1995 film, \"Casino\".\n\nIn the 1960s, Nicoletti was questioned by two FBI agents, including Agent William F. Roemer, Jr., to see whether they could develop Nicoletti as an informant against the Outfit. According to Roemer, Nicoletti gave him the names of several car dealerships he worked at and was very cordial; apparently, all the employment leads checked out. But Nicoletti never flipped and never talked to the FBI again, though there was eventually talk in Chicago that Nicoletti had flipped.\n\nIt has been alleged that Nicoletti was involved in as many as 20 mob hits during his career as a hitman. In 2010, \"Playboy\" magazine published an article by Hillel Levin in which Nicoletti was implicated in the assassination of President John F. Kennedy by James Files, an inmate within the Illinois Department of Corrections, and Chauncey Marvin Holt.\n\nOn March 29, 1977, Nicoletti was shot three times in the back of his head while waiting in his Oldsmobile in the parking lot of the Golden Horns Restaurant in suburban Northlake, Illinois. He was brought to the hospital where he died six to seven hours later. Nicoletti's car was never turned off and consequently overheated and caught on fire, causing initial incorrect press reports that his car was firebombed. Nicoletti was due to testify before the House Select Committee on Assassinations at the time of his death. \n\nAccording to Roemer, Chicago mob assassin Harry Aleman is the suspected hitman.\n\nNicoletti was buried at Mount Carmel Cemetery in Hillside, Illinois, not far from Al Capone and other Chicago organized crime figures.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27470588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27470588", "title": "Effects of war", "text": "Effects of war\n\nPost war effects are widely spread and can be long term or short term. Soldiers experience war differently than civilians, although either suffer in times of war, and women and children suffer unspeakable atrocities in particular. In the past decade, up to two million of those killed in armed conflicts were children. The widespread trauma caused by these atrocities and suffering of the civilian population is another legacy of these conflicts, the following creates extensive emotional and psychological stress. Present-day internal wars generally take a larger toll on civilians than state wars. This is due to the increasing trend where combatants have made targeting civilians a strategic objective. A state conflict is an armed conflict that occurs with the use of armed force between two parties, of which one is the government of a state. \"The three problems posed by intra‐state conflict are the willingness of UN members, particularly the strongest member, to intervene; the structural ability of the UN to respond; and whether the traditional principles of peacekeeping should be applied to intra‐state conflict\". Effects of war also include mass destruction of cities and have long lasting effects on a country's economy. Armed conflict have important indirect negative consequences on, infrastructure, public health provision, and social order. These indirect consequences are often overlooked and underappreciated.\n\nArmed conflict is not clearly defined internationally. According to the Geneva Conventions of 1949, common article 2 states that \"all cases of declared war or of any armed conflict that may arise between two or more high contracting parties, even if the state of war is not recognized, the convention shall also apply to all cases of partial or total occupation of the territory of a high contracting party even if the said occupation meets with no armed resistance\". International humanitarian law works to protect the rights and dignity of civilians during peace and armed conflict with parties of the conflict having legally binding obligations concerning the rights of persons not involved in the conflict. Current day conflicts continue to occur with breaches of human rights and destruction of property continuing to happen due to state interests.\n\nThe economy may suffer devastating impacts during and after a time of war. According to Shank, \"negative unintended consequences occur either concurrently with the war or develop as residual effects afterwards thereby impeding the economy over the longer term\". In 2012 the economic impact of war and violence was estimated to be eleven percent of gross world product (GWP) or 9.46 trillion dollars. Everyday activities of a community or country are disrupted and property may be damaged. When people become misplaced, they cannot continue to work or keep their businesses open, causing damages to the economy of countries involved. A government may decide to direct money to fund war efforts, leaving other institutions with little or no available budget.\n\nIn some cases war has stimulated a country's economy (World War II is often credited with bringing America out of the Great Depression). According to the World Bank the event that conflicts subside in the country, and in the event that there is a transition to democracy the following will result in an increase economic growth by encouraging investment of the country and its people, schooling, economic restructuring, public-good provision, and reducing social unrest. Conflict very rarely has positive effects on an economy according to the world bank \"Countries bordering conflict zones are facing tremendous budgetary pressure. The World Bank estimates that the influx of more than 630,000 Syrian refugees have cost Jordan over USD 2.5 billion a year. This amounts to 6 percent of GDP and one-fourth of government's annual revenues\". One of the most commonly cited benefits for the economy is higher GDP growth. This has occurred throughout all of the conflict periods, other than in the Afghanistan and Iraq war period. Another benefit commonly mentioned is that WWII established the appropriate conditions for future growth and ended the great depression. In previous cases, such as the wars of Louis XIV, the Franco-Prussian War, and World War I, warfare serves only to damage the economy of the countries involved. For example, Russia's involvement in World War I took such a toll on the Russian economy that it almost collapsed and greatly contributed to the start of the Russian Revolution of 1917.\n\nAs a result of the Sri Lankan Civil War, Sri Lanka's military spending as a percentage of GDP, increased from 1.6 percent in 1983 to 3.5 in 2008 and reached an all-time peak at 5.9 percent of GDP in 1995 representing over 20 percent of the government's total spending. Until the war, arms were not nearly a significant amount of government spending and their defense personnel increased from 22,000 in 1989 to 213,000 in 2008. After the war began, however, arms were imported annually in response to increasing violence. By the year 2000, the Sri Lankan government's \"import bill for arms was around $US 274 million\", a record high during the war.\n\nDestruction of infrastructure can create a catastrophic collapse in the social interrelated structure, infrastructure services, education and health care system. Destruction of schools and educational infrastructure have led to a decline in education among many countries affected by war. If certain infrastructural elements are significantly damaged or destroyed, it can cause serious disruption of the other systems such as the economy. This includes loss of certain transportation routes in a city which could make it impossible for the economy to function properly and also for people to be evacuated.\n\nThe labor force of the economy also changes with the effects of war. The labor force is affected in a multitude of ways most often due to the drastic loss of life, change in population, the labor force size shrinking due to the movement of refugees and displacement and the destruction of infrastructure which in turn allows for a deterioration of productivity.\n\nWhen men head off to war, women take over the jobs they left behind. This causes an economic shift in certain countries because after the war these women usually want to keep their jobs. The shortage of labor force during the 1980–1988 Iran–Iraq War enabled women to enter fields of employment that had previously been closed to them and absorbed them into a large number of much-needed jobs. In \"Women and Work in Iran\", Povey points, \"The Iran–Iraq war reduced the supply of male labor is one factor. The war increased the number of women seeking work or resisting exclusion. Many women even occupied important positions for the first time\". This can also be seen in the Second Liberian Civil War, and in the Rwandan genocide. Women in both conflicts took over their husbands jobs due to the effects of the war, and received more economic equality as a result.\n\n\"International humanitarian law (IHL), also known as the laws of war and the law of armed conflict, is the legal framework applicable to situations of armed conflict and occupation. As a set of rules and principles it aims, for humanitarian reasons, to limit the effects of armed conflict\".  International humanitarian law works to limit the effects of war and will protect the people who do not participate in such hostilities. Most wars have resulted in a significant loss of life. Conflict characterizes a major obstacle for the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), particularly for the universal completion of primary education and gender equality in education. \"The Millennium Development goals are the world's time-bound and quantified targets for addressing extreme poverty in its many dimensions-income poverty, hunger, disease, lack of adequate shelter, and exclusion-while promoting gender equality, education, and environmental sustainability. They are also basic human rights-the rights of each person on the planet to health, education, shelter, and security\". There can be no doubt that armed conflict directly kills, injures, and harms more men than women in that combatants are predominantly male. Armed conflict has many indirect consequences such as on health and survival. \"Armed conflict both generates conditions for increased morbidity and mortality\".\n\nDuring Napoleon's retreat from Moscow, more French soldiers died of typhus than were killed by the Russians. Felix Markham thinks that 450,000 crossed the Neman on 25 June 1812, of whom less than 40,000 recrossed in anything like a recognizable military formation. More soldiers were killed from 1500–1914 by typhus than from all military action during that time combined. In addition, if it were not for the modern medical advances there would be thousands more dead from disease and infection.\n\nDisplacement or forced migration results most often during a time of war and can adversely affect both the community and an individual. When a war breaks out, many people flee their homes in fear of losing their lives and their families, and as a result, they become misplaced either internally or externally. Those who are internally displaced face a direct threat because they do not receive the rights that a refugee may receive and are not eligible for protection under an international system. Victims of internal displacements are symptoms of war that are often motivated by communal hatred based on ethnic background, race, or religious views. External displacement are individuals who are forced out of the borders of their country into another as seen with the Syrian Refugees. The following may have a severe economic impact on a country.\n\nIn 2015, 53 percent of refugees worldwide originated from Somalia, Afghanistan, and Syria. In a Global Trends Report by the UNHRC, approximately 65 million people around the world have been forced from their home. Out of this number, 21.3 million are refugees, over half of the demographic under the age of 18. Some of the top countries absorbing these displaced peoples are Pakistan (1.6 million), Lebanon (1.1 million), and Turkey (2.5 million). In times of violence, people are displaced from their homes and seek places where they are welcome, periodically meeting places they are not welcome.\n\nIn response to an influx of refugees and asylum seekers from countries such as Afghanistan, Iraq, and Sri Lanka, Australia initiated a controversial plan in 2001 titled the Pacific Solution which called for all asylum seekers arriving by boat to be sent to the small and barren island Nauru. Asylum seekers were housed in crowded tents and lived under a constant threat of running out of resources, especially water. Individuals were kept in the detention center until their refugee status was granted or denied. Chris Evans, former immigration minister stated the Pacific Solution as being “a cynical, costly and ultimately unsuccessful exercise,” and was ended under a newly elected Prime Minister Kevin Rudd in 2007. In February 2008, after the Pacific Solution was ended, the final members of a group of 82 refugees detained on Nauru were granted residency rights and resettled in Australia according to a humanitarian resettlement program.\n\nIn the case of the Sri Lankan Civil War, displacement had a high chance to impoverish those affected, but women and children were found to be the most vulnerable to the burden of displacement. A Sri Lankan female head of household earns less than a household that has a male head. After men and women became displaced, however, females lost 76% of their income and males lost 80%. While the lost income is within a relatively close percentage, females were more likely, on average to fall below the official poverty line. Male household by comparison were able to stay above the line even after becoming displaced. In a post-displacement setting, male headed households had more earned income than female headed households. Males benefit from manual labor, carpentry, masonry, and government services while females had earned their income from informal work. Informal work for females is more difficult in a post-displacement setting where they do not have access to the same tools as they did pre-displacement.\n\nThe Palestinian people have suffered from displacement as a result of armed conflict and the military occupation. The largest displacement caused due to war occurred in 1947, after the United Nations agreed to have Palestine divided into two states. It later became the Israeli decision that Palestinian refugees no longer were permitted to return to their lands unless it was to reunify a family. \"Nearly one-third of the registered Palestine refugees, more than 1.5 million individuals, live in 58 recognized Palestine refugee camps in Jordan, Lebanon, the Syrian Arab Republic, the Gaza Strip and the West Bank, including East Jerusalem\".\n\nOftentimes when a country is in an economic crisis there is an increase in poverty which results in the decline of education. Over half of the world’s children that are out of school are assessed to live in conflict-affected fragile states. According to the UNESCO report “The groups most negatively affected by conflict were those that suffered from multiple exclusion, for example based on gender, area of residence, household wealth, language, and ethnicity”. One predominantly damaging, effect of conflict on education is the proliferation of attacks on schools with children, teachers and school buildings become the targets of violence. During times of war teachers and students often suffer from death or displacement. This prevents the opening of schools and increases teachers absenteeism. In the case of Iraq, boys were pulled out of school to work for their families, and therefore the education gap for men and women shrank.\n\nConflict negatively impacts women and men, which often results in gender-specific difficulties that are not recognized or addressed by mainstream communities across the globe (Baden and Goetz, 1997). War impacts women differently as they are more likely to die from indirect causes as opposed to direct causes. \"Women and girls suffered disproportionately during and after war, as existing inequalities were magnified, and social networks broke down, making them more vulnerable to sexual violence and exploitation, the Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations\". Men during war are more likely to die from direct causes such as direct violence. The Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action, made women and armed conflict one of most critical areas of concern. It stated that peace is directly linked to equality between men and women and to development post conflict (Beijing Platform for Action). Plumper found that most women live longer when they are in peacetime, when compared to a state that is in armed conflict the gender gap of life expectancy drastically decreases in the male to female ratio. The indirect effects of militarized conflicts' affect access to food, hygiene, health services, and clean water. Women suffer more harshly from the damage to the health as well as overall well being, other infrastructure damages, and the wider economic damage as well as from dislocation during and post-conflict. During a time of war women are often separated from their husbands or lose them as a cost of war. Because of this there is a dramatic economic cost effect on women causing many to bear the entire economic responsibility for their household.\n\nThree of the most common things done by Israeli military occupation includes the apartheid wall, displacement of people, and house demolitions caused by bombings especially in Gaza. This has severe consequences on men and women. As the number of marital disputes rises after a house demolition, women are forced to look for work in order to support the livelihood of their families. Also, there is a large rise in domestic violence that leaves women more vulnerable. Palestinians, particularly women, are unable to access basic services because of the closeness to or route of the apartheid wall, resulting in everyday abuse and suffering as they pass through Israeli checkpoints in order to have such access and admittance.\n\nDuring the Thirty Years' War in Europe, for example, the population of the German states was reduced by about 30%. The Swedish armies alone may have destroyed up to 2,000 castles, 18,000 villages and 1,500 towns in Germany, one-third of all German towns.\n\nEstimates for the total casualties of World War II vary, but most suggest that some 60 million people died in the war, including about 20 million soldiers and 40 million civilians. The Soviet Union lost around 27 million people during the war, about half of all World War II casualties. The largest number of civilian deaths in a single city was 1.2 million citizens dead during the 872-day Siege of Leningrad. Based on 1860 census figures, 8% of all white American males aged 13 to 50 died in the American Civil War. Of the 60 million European soldiers who were mobilized in World War I, 8 million were killed, 7 million were permanently disabled, and 15 million were seriously injured.\n\nWhen war strikes it ends up affecting government structures along with the people in power of the government.  Many times, one regime is removed and new forms of government are put into place.  This can be seen in the Second Liberian Civil War where rebels had removed the current leader, Charles Taylor, and with the help of the United Nations deployed a new democratic form of government that stands for equal rights and even has a women president in Ellen Johnson Sirleaf.  This change in government was also apparent in Rwanda in 1993 when the genocide finally stopped.  The country had shifted from dictatorship to pure democracy and gave both men and women the right to vote.  The country also installed a quota system where a certain number of government seats must belong to women.  The country's quota was 30% of seats, however women now hold 55% of seats from their own merit.  These changes in government also changes the way the country behaves economically.\n\nSome scholars, however, have argued that war can have a positive effect on political development.\n\nPolitical scientist Jeffrey Herbst argues that interstate war is a requisite factor in the formation of strong states. Using Europe's history of state formation as his model, Herbst identifies interstate war as the factor that enabled states to effectively collect revenue and to generate a spirit of nationalism, two results that Herbst considers \"crucial developments\" in the formation of strong states. War increases both a leader's incentive to establish an efficient system of taxation and the population's willingness to assent to higher taxes. The existence of an external threat is also a powerful impetus for the development of a cooperative or unified state. Because the system of revenue collection, increased rate of taxation, and spirit of nationalism generally persist after war ends, war can have long-term consequences on a state's formation. This is particularly true of states in regions or periods of consistent warfare because states generally either adapted or were conquered. Herbst postulates that the stability of borders and lack of credible external threats between African states could result in \"a new brand of states\", those that will \"remain permanently weak\".\n\nCharles Tilly, an American sociologist, political scientist, and historian, claims that within the context of European history, \"war makes states.\" While the purposes of war were to expand territory and to check or overcome neighboring states, the process of war inadvertently engendered European-style state-building. War making resulted in state making in four ways:\nWar making and the extraction, protection, and state making that followed were interdependent. Tilly ultimately argues that the interactions between these four processes influenced the classic European state making experience.\n\nThe effects of conflict and its aftermath in Palestine reveals distinct types of disadvantages that worsen gender relations in both men and women. Increased militarization of the conflict and a rise in gender-based violence focused towards Palestinian as well as Israeli women are major ongoing issues happening in the conflict zone. The longstanding effects of Israeli occupation and policies of siege, confinement and confiscation of land have resulted in social as well as economic crisis for Palestinians. Consequently, the Israeli occupation remains a major problem for Palestinian women with regard to their advancement in labor, and participation in executive governmental bodies. In the light of an increasingly failing security and living conditions most efforts should be directed at everyday survival and creating a more stable environment for the Palestinian peoples. The pushing of gender issues should be at the peak of the political agenda.\n\nOne stark illustration of the effect of war upon economies is the Second World War. The Great Depression of the 1930s ended as nations increased their production of war materials to serve the war effort. The financial cost of World War II is estimated at about a $1.944 trillion U.S. dollars worldwide, making it the most costly war in capital as well as lives.\n\nProperty damage in the Soviet Union inflicted after the Axis invasion was estimated to a value of 679 billion rubles. The combined damage consisted of complete or partial destruction of 1,710 cities and towns, 70,000 villages/hamlets, 2,508 church buildings, 31,850 industrial establishments, 40,000 miles of railroad, 4100 railroad stations, 40,000 hospitals, 84,000 schools, and 43,000 public libraries.\n"}
{"id": "42926756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42926756", "title": "Eklutna Annie", "text": "Eklutna Annie\n\nEklutna Annie is the informal name given to an unidentified murder victim discovered in 1980 in Eklutna, Anchorage, Alaska. An autopsy report concluded that she had been killed by a stab wound to the back.\n\nShe was murdered by Robert Hansen, a serial killer who was responsible for murdering as many as 20 other women. Later in the year, the remains of topless dancer Joanne Messina were found in the same area.\n\n\"Horseshoe Harriet\", another unidentified woman, is believed to have also been one of Hansen's victims.\n\nThe skeletalized remains of Eklutna Annie were discovered buried in a shallow grave, alongside a series of power lines, on July 21, 1980.\n\nShe wore several articles of clothing, including a knitted sleeveless shirt, a leather coat containing matches in a pocket, and knee-high boots. The victim was also wearing several pieces of jewelry:\n\n\n\nEklutna Annie was most likely white, but may have had a degree of Native American heritage. Her hair color ranged from light brown to strawberry-blond.\n\nRobert Hansen, a serial killer who resided in the area, admitted in 1984 that he was responsible for the victim's death. He claimed that she was either a dancer from a local bar or a prostitute, and that she was his first murder victim, adding that she had been murdered in the fall or early winter of 1979.\n\nHansen admitted that he had stabbed this decedent as she attempted to escape from his vehicle, when he tried to transport her to his residence, Hansen said he believed she was from Kodiak, Alaska, and that immediately prior to his murdering her, as the woman struggled against his efforts to overpower her, she had hysterically screamed, \"You're going to kill me!\"\n\nEklutna Annie is still unidentified, despite the fact that her face has been reconstructed in both 3-D and 2-D. Several missing women are believed to have also been murdered by Hansen.\n\nRoxane Easland, Karen Evan, Megan Emerick, and Teresa Davis have been ruled out as possible identities of Eklutna Annie.\n\nHansen was sentenced to 461 years in prison without the possibility of parole for her murder and three others. He died in prison in August 2014.\n\nThe remains of Eklutna Annie are interred at the Anchorage Memorial Park Cemetery under a marker reading \"Jane Doe / Died 1980\".\n\n\"The Frozen Ground\", starring Nicolas Cage and John Cusack, was dedicated to Hansen's victims.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50002695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50002695", "title": "Extra 3", "text": "Extra 3\n\nextra 3 is a weekly political satire show on German television established in 1976. Produced by public TV broadcaster Norddeutscher Rundfunk, it is aired on NDR Fernsehen and 3sat. Once a month, the show is promoted to ARD's national first program Das Erste.\n\nInvented by Dieter Kronzucker in 1976, the satire show was initially hosted by himself together with Peter Merseburger and Wolf von Lojewski. Over the years, the show has seen a number of personalities co-hosting the magazine, starting with Lea Rosh, who joined the team in 1977. In 2000, a special edition was co-hosted by leading politicians Cem Özdemir (Bündnis 90/Die Grünen), Thomas Goppel (CSU), Guido Westerwelle (FDP) and Gregor Gysi (Die Linke).\n\nIn its nationally aired show on 17 March 2016, \"extra 3\" presented a satirical music video titled \"Erdowie, Erdowo, Erdogan\", adapted from German pop star Nena's song \"Irgendwie, irgendwo, irgendwann\". The two-minute video shows a compilation of some of the most absurd public moments of Turkish president Recep Tayyip Erdoğan and footage of the Turkish government's crackdown on the media, women rights protesters and Kurds, while taking a lenient stance on the \"brothers in faith from ISIL\". The video also criticizes chancellor Angela Merkel for her migrant deal with Turkey to putting Turkey in the role of cracking down on the refugee influx to the EU, mocking her to \"be charming to him since he has you well in hand\" ().\n\nOn 22 March, Erdoğan summoned German ambassador Martin Erdmann over the song, asking the German government to intervene and delete the video, as reported by AFP. While representatives of the German government declined to intervene, \"extra 3\" followed up with English- and Turkish-subtitled versions of the video and republished a number of earlier videos criticizing the Turkish government.\n\nErdoğan's unprecedented overreaction on a satire video produced an outcry by the German public with representatives of all German parties criticizing the situation of censorship in Turkey and reaffirming that Germany takes its freedom of the press seriously. Sevim Dağdelen, in charge for foreign policy at left-wing party Die Linke, demanded \"a clear stand\" from the foreign office, adding that \"our fundamental rights cannot be sacrificed on the altar of the shabby EU-Turkey deal.” As reported by a European Commission spokeswoman, Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker said he \"does not appreciate\" Turkey's decision to call in the ambassador because of a satirical song, and \"believes this moves Turkey further from the EU rather than closer to us.\"\n\nThe satire show extra 3 called the 2017 chancellor candidate of the German party AfD, Alice Weidel, a Nazi bitch, as a response to her rallying against political correctness. She was not amused and went to court. The Landgericht (Regional Court) in Hamburg rejected the suit, explaining it with freedom of expression and satire with respect to political figures. Alice Weidel has brought it to the Oberlandesgericht (Higher Regional Court), but has withdrawn the appeal.\n"}
{"id": "277269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=277269", "title": "George Dupre", "text": "George Dupre\n\nGeorge Dupre (1903–1982) was a Canadian man who falsely claimed to have been a Special Operations Executive operative during World War II.\n\nIn 1953, Quentin Reynolds, an ex-war correspondent, had written a book \"The Man Who Wouldn't Talk\" about George Dupre's alleged wartime experiences. Dupre claimed that he had been working for Special Operations Executive and the French Resistance during World War II. He had masqueraded as a village idiot and had been captured and tortured by the Gestapo. He had been telling his story in Canadian service clubs and Boy Scout meetings for years. Any loopholes in his story he (and his listeners) attributed to wartime trauma and still existing security restrictions.\n\nRandom House published the book and it appeared in November 1953. There was also a Reader's Digest condensation. Dupre himself said he wanted no money, that only the message to trust in God was important. He gave the money to Scouts Canada. The book was a sensation.\n\nThe hoax began to unravel when a retired Royal Canadian Air Force officer appeared at the offices of the \"Calgary Herald\". He had served with Dupre in Winnipeg in 1943, when Dupre claimed he was working undercover in France. Three other officers admitted that they had sailed with him to Britain at the same time.\n\n\"Calgary Herald\" reporter Douglas Collins, himself a former intelligence man, tricked Dupre by dropping fictitious names Dupre claimed to recognize. Eventually Dupre confessed. Reynolds was rather disappointed and Reader's Digest published a three-page retraction. Unfazed, Random House representative Bennett Cerf recommended that stores move the book to the fiction section. The book continued to sell well.\n\n"}
{"id": "42957103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42957103", "title": "George Enescu International Piano Competition", "text": "George Enescu International Piano Competition\n\nThe George Enescu International Piano Competition is a music competition for young pianists that takes place in Bucharest, Romania. It has helped launch the careers of many musicians, and among its list of first-prize winners are legendary pianists such as Radu Lupu, the winner in the 1967 edition. Other winners include Russian pianists Elisabeth Leonskaja, in 1964, and Dmitri Alexeev, in 1970.\n\nThe competition started in 1958, as part of the George Enescu Festival, and celebrated its first five editions (1958, 1961, 1964, 1967, and 1970) in what was then the Socialist Republic of Romania. It was considered, by the countries of the Eastern Bloc, one of the most prestigious music competitions. Jury members included famous musicians such as Claudio Arrau, Nadia Boulanger, Arthur Rubinstein, Magda Tagliaferro, Guido Agosti, Florica Musicescu, Dmitri Bashkirov, Carlo Zecchi, and Lazar Berman. After the 1970 edition, there was a 21-year hiatus, after which the next competition was held in 1991, already in modern Romania. Only twice, in 1961 and in 2011, no first-prize was awarded.\n\nThe competition is a member of the World Federation of International Music Competitions in Geneva. There have been twelve editions of the competition since its inaugural session in 1958, the next edition being in 2014.\n\nThe competition and prize-giving ceremony has historically taken place in the Romanian Athenaeum, with the mayor always traditionally attending.\n\nThe competition has, since 1958, discovered dozens of outstanding musicians for all over the world. Past piano laureates (not-including the first-prize winners) include Mikhail Voskresensky, Pascal Rogé, and Cristina Ortiz.\n\nThe prize has always included a generous cash award and numerous performing opportunities as a recitalist, soloist, and in chamber music settings, including concert appearances in many prestigious venues and festivals all over the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "50374907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50374907", "title": "Germanico in Germania", "text": "Germanico in Germania\n\nSome of the opera's \"bravura\" arias have been recorded by the singers Simone Kermes (\"Empi, se mai disciolgo\"), Max Emanuel Cenčić (\"Qual turbine che scende\"), (\"Qual turbine che scende\") and Cecilia Bartoli (\"Parto, ti lascio, o cara\").\n\nThe first complete recording with Max Emanuel Cenčić, Julia Lezhneva, Dilyara Idrisova, Hasnaa Bennani, Mary-Ellen Nesi, and the Capella Cracoviensis, conducted by Jan Tomasz Adamus, was issued on Decca in January 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "3434221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3434221", "title": "Gruene Hall", "text": "Gruene Hall\n\nGruene Hall, was built in 1878 by Henry (Heinrich) D. Gruene and is located in the historical town of Gruene, Texas (now a part of New Braunfels), and bills itself as \"the oldest continually run dance hall in Texas.\" By design, not much has physically changed since the Hall was first built. The 6,000 square foot dance hall with a high pitched tin roof still has the original layout with side flaps for open air dancing, a bar in the front, a small lighted stage in the back and a huge outdoor garden. Advertisement signs from the 1930s and 1940s still hang in the old hall and around the stage.\n\nUnder the current ownership, Gruene Hall has become internationally recognized as a destination tourist attraction and major music venue for up-and-coming as well as established artists. Gruene Hall has hosted such acts as Willie Nelson, Merle Haggard, George Strait, Townes Van Zandt, Jerry Jeff Walker, Lyle Lovett, Hal Ketchum, Gregg Allman and many more. It was also used as a set for \"Michael\", starring John Travolta. Booking agent of 30 years, Tracie Ferguson is credited with starting the original music approach that has made Gruene Hall an iconic music venue, helping to jump start the careers of Lyle Lovett, Townes Van Zandt, Hal Ketchum, Bruce Robison, Nanci Griffith, Ryan Bingham, Jimmy Dale Gilmore, Robert Earl Keen, Lucinda Williams and many others.\n\nThe hall has been featured in several books including Pat Green's Dancehalls & Dreamers, Gail Folkins' Texas Dance Halls: A Two Step Circuit, Vokac's The Great Towns of America and Schultz's 1000 Places to See Before You Die.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2198135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2198135", "title": "Henry &amp; June", "text": "Henry &amp; June\n\nHenry & June is a 1990 American biographical drama film directed by Philip Kaufman, and starring Fred Ward, Maria de Medeiros, and Uma Thurman. It is loosely based on Anaïs Nin's French book of the same name, and tells the story of Nin's relationship with Henry Miller and his wife, June.\n\nThe film was nominated for Best Cinematography at the 63rd Academy Awards. It is one of three NC-17 films to receive Oscar nominations; the other films are \"Wild at Heart\" (1990) and \"Requiem for a Dream\" (2000).\n\nParis, France in 1931. Anaïs Nin is in a stable relationship with her husband Hugo, but longs for more out of life. When Nin first meets Henry Miller, he is working on his first novel. Nin is drawn to Miller and his wife June, as well as their bohemian lifestyle. Nin becomes involved in the couple's tormented relationship, having an affair with Miller and also pursuing June. Ultimately, Nin helps Miller to publish his novel, \"Tropic of Cancer\", but catalyzes the Millers' separation, while she returns to Hugo.\n\nThe soundtrack was arranged by Mark Adler, consisting of period popular songs.\n\n\"Henry & June\" was the first film to receive the MPAA's rating of NC-17 (\"Predator 2\" originally received this rating, but was cut to qualify for an R rating) which was devised as a replacement for the X rating. NC-17 was intended to signify serious, non-pornographic films with more violence or (especially) sexual content than would qualify for an R rating. The inclusion of the postcard Nin views at the start of the film (which is of Hokusai's \"The Dream of the Fisherman's Wife\"), and some scenes of \"le Bal des Beaux Arts\" contributed to the NC-17 rating.\n\nThe film was given a more lenient M rating in Australia and an uncut 18 in the UK. Conversely, it was banned in South Africa. The ban has since been lifted. The film was given an R18 rating in New Zealand.\n\n\"Henry & June\" grossed $11,567,449 in the domestic market and $11,905,000 internationally for a worldwide total of $23,472,449.\n\nThe film received mixed reviews from critics. Owen Gleiberman of \"Entertainment Weekly\" gave the film a B-, but felt that, \"Kaufman, trying to deepen the erotic explorations of Unbearable Lightness, ends up with a triangle movie that’s watchable but also arty and rather stilted. The biggest disappointment of the film is that, after all the ratings brouhaha, it’s not very sexy.\" Janet Maslin of \"The New York Times\" noted the film's efforts to present sex in a more artistic, highbrow manner, remarking, \"The film's sex scenes, photographed delicately by Philippe Rousselot and directed with great intensity by Mr. Kaufman, are particularly lofty. These sequences, often tinged with symbolism (a hand playing a guitar juxtaposed with a hand on a woman's breast), tend to be self-consciously bold,\" but felt the film lacked daring.\n\nThe film has a 60% approval rating on review aggregate Rotten Tomatoes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19068886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19068886", "title": "Howard Athenaeum", "text": "Howard Athenaeum\n\nThe Howard Athenæum (1845-1953), also known as Old Howard Theatre, in Boston, Massachusetts, was one of the most famous theaters in Boston history. Founded in 1845, it remained an institution of culture and learning for most of its years, finally closing in 1953.\n\nOf all the theaters founded in Boston, the Howard Athenæum was one of the most famous as well as the most lamented. Popular throughout New England, the theater was affectionately called \"The Old Howard.\" Built in 1843 as a church by the Millerite sect, the flimsy tent-like structure housed a small but loyal congregation who eventually abandoned the site following disappointment with the minister's promise that the world would end in 1844. After Armageddon failed to materialize, the founder of the sect, William Miller, an ex-Deputy Sheriff from Poultney, Vermont, was discredited and the Millerites moved on. The temple was then rebuilt as a playhouse in 1845, only to burn to the ground a few months later. In 1846 a new structure was designed by Isaiah Rogers in a Gothic-like style that was unique among American theaters. The new building, made of Quincy granite and capable of seating 1,360 patrons, was rushed to completion with the aid of funds from a local brewery. It reopened October 5, 1846, at 34 Howard Street in Scollay Square, the area that is now occupied by Boston's Government Center.\nFor the first several decades of its existence, it successfully vied with the Boston Museum as that city's leading playhouse. While the Boston Museum relied heavily on its great stock company, the Howard became the home of leading touring actors. In an 1860 playbill, the Howard Athenaeum proudly announced that it hosted performances of \"opera, tragedy, comedy, burlesque, vaudeville, minstrels, and magicians.\" Among the great names regularly appearing at the Howard were Edwin Booth, Charlotte Cushman and other stellar performers of that era, including a young John Wilkes Booth, who played Hamlet. The playhouse soon became famous for its opera productions: Verdi's \"Ernani\", which had its American premier at the Howard in 1847, may have been Boston's first exposure to Italian bel canto opera. A program for the \"Ernani\" performance at the Howard is owned by the Boston Athenæum, which has a very small but interesting collection of programs from the Howard's early years dating from 1847 to 1848. \n\nOn opening night, the \"Boston Courier\" for October 13, 1845, had this to say:\nBallet, opera and serious drama would be the main fare at the Howard for the next twenty years and, on that first night, the Howard Athenaeum opened with a production of Richard Sheridan's \"The School for Scandal\". For the first four months of its life, the Howard seemed to enjoy a blessed existence, until on February 25, 1846, during a performance of \"Pizzaro\", a ball of fire representing the sun set the scenery on fire and the building burned to the ground. However, the theatre reopened on October 5, 1846 with Richard Sheridan's \"The Rivals\".\n\nDuring its early period, the Howard Athenaeum played host to many performing superstars, among them was the eminent comedian William Warren, who was for years considered the top comedian in the nation. Scandal also surfaced when, on May 4, 1853, the Howard Athenaeum found itself under unfavorable national scrutiny. Sarah Parker Remond, a black anti-slavery activist and lecturer with the American Anti-Slavery Society (and later a medical doctor), had bought a ticket through the mail for the Donizetti opera, \"Don Pasquale\", but, upon arriving, refused to sit in a segregated section for the show. She was forcibly removed and pushed down a flight of stairs. She eventually won a desegregation lawsuit against the managers of the Howard Athenaeum and received $500 in a settlement. \n\nBy the late 1860s, however, the theater had lost much of its audience to its more popular rivals the Boston Museum and the Boston Theatre and had begun presenting variety shows. In 1869, The Howard Athenaeum introduced an era of vaudeville with \"Lydia Thomson and Her British Blondes.\", By the end of the 19th century, the theatre had completely switched over to burlesque with performers such as Ann Corio, Sally Rand, Fanny Brice, Gypsy Rose Lee, Sophie Tucker and \"Tillie the Tassel.\" From its fashionable grand opera days in the mid-19th century, the Old Howard had become a tawdry establishment especially beloved by Harvard undergraduates for its strip-tease acts. President Kennedy was allegedly a regular patron of the Old Howard in his Harvard days (The Harvard class of 1937 even made Ann Corio an honorary member.) The \"Boston Phoenix\" for February 17, 2007, said: \"...the Howard hosted everyone in show biz from John Wilkes Booth to Phil Silvers to Minsky’s Burlesque star Ann Corio to an 'exotic Indian dancer' named Princess Lahoma.\" There were also a few vice raids. Other entertainers who appeared at the Howard include Abbott & Costello, Jimmy Durante, Fred Allen, W. C. Fields, Jackie Gleason, Al Jolson, Buster Keaton, Bert Lahr and Jerry Lewis. Boxers John L. Sullivan and Rocky Marciano gave boxing demonstrations on the stage. During this era of burlesque and variety, the Howard would advertise: \"There is always Something Doing at the Old Howard.\"\n\nAs the burlesque performances got more risqué with each year, the Boston vice squad made the Old Howard the object of their attention. The Boston Vice squad made a 16mm film during one of their raids in 1953 and captured on film the performance of \"Irma the Body\" (real name: Mary Goodneighbor). This film footage resulted in an indecency hearing which eventually led to the closing of the Old Howard in 1953.\n\nDue to the indecency charges, the city of Boston refused to renew the Old Howard's license in 1953, so the auditorium was dark for nearly a decade. In 1960 the Howard National Theatre and Museum Committee was formed to raise $1,500,000 to refurbish “\"Boston's most celebrated theatre\"” and restore it to the legitimate fold. However, before the committee could realize its ambition, the building had a small but not devastating fire. Though many people supported the push for a complete renovation, the city tore the building down promptly after the fire before anybody could protest. This controversial incident occurred at the height of Boston's urban renewal initiative and not much was considered historic except colonial-era structures.\n\nA sign from The Old Howard is preserved today in the Emerson Umbrella in Concord, MA. \n\nFanny Davenport (April 10, 1850 - September 26, 1898) was an American stage actress. The daughter of Edward Loomis Davenport and Fanny Vining, she was born in London, England, but was brought to America when a child and educated in the Boston public schools. When seven years old she appeared at the Howard Athenæum in Boston, as the child of Metamora.\n\nBarney Fagan (January 12, 1850 - January 12, 1937) made his first professional appearance in his native city of Boston at the famous Howard Athenaeum in 1860, as the Cabin Boy in the \"Pilot of Brest.\" He remained at this theatre several seasons until 1865 when he played his first minstrel engagement with the Morris Brothers in Boston. In 1870 Mr. Fagan went to St. Johns, New Brunswick, Canada, and appeared with Pete Lee’s Minstrels. In 1873 he joined Buckley’s Serenaders in Boston, and took a fellow dancer, Joe Parks, as a partner. During the period 1873-1876, Fagan and Parks, known as the American Lads, played variety engagements. In 1876 he did the famous Heifer dance with Richard Golden in Evangeline. Mr. Fagan next joined John Fenton in a dancing specialty, and continued with him until 1878, when he formed a partnership with Lizzie Mulvey, which lasted one season.\n\nNathaniel Carl Goodwin (July 25, 1857 – January 31, 1919) was an American actor and vaudevillian born in Boston. While clerk in a large shop he studied for the stage and made his first appearance in 1874 at the Howard Athenaeum in Boston in Stuart Robson's company as the newsboy in Joseph Bradford's \"Law in New York\". The next year he appeared at Tony Pastor's Opera House in New York City where he began his career as a vaudevillian.\n\nWilliam Edward Sheridan (June 1, 1839 - May 18, 1887), born in Boston, where he made his debut at the Howard Athenaeum in 1858, he became a leading portrayer of villains and tragic figures in Cincinnati until the outbreak of the Civil War. After the war, despite a badly injured arm, he continued to be an important actor, his notable roles including Othello, Shylock, and Sir Giles Overreach. Sheridan also was the first American Beamish McCloud in Arrah na Pogue (1865). Following a long San Francisco engagement, he left for a tour of Australia, where he died. Otis Skinner remembered the virile actor with dark, deep set eyes as a man of splendid power, with one of the most intriguing voices I ever listened to. Others remarked on his voice's striking resonance.\n\nDenman Thompson (October 15, 1833 - April 14, 1911) For three generations his ancestors had been born and lived in Swanzey New Hampshire. In 1847 when he was fourteen years old, he returned with his family to Swanzey, New Hampshire, the town which became the inspiration for writing his famous play, \"The Old Homestead.\" While living there in Swanzey, Denman attended the Mount Caesar Seminary (now the Mount Caesar Union\nLibrary). His first appearance on the stage was at the Howard Athenaeum, Boston (1850) where he acted as a \"supe\" for Charlotte Cushman in \"Lady Macbeth.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "17715383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17715383", "title": "International Adana Film Festival", "text": "International Adana Film Festival\n\nInternational Adana Film Festival previously known as Altın Koza International Film Festival () is a film festival of Adana, that was held 17 times since 1969 and took place every year since 2005. The event is organized by the Adana Metropolitan Municipality and takes place in June. Beginning from 2006, the scope of the festival is broadened to an international dimension within the framework of the cinema in Mediterranean basin countries.\n\nThe festival, taking its name from cotton boll, the traditional crop grown in the region, includes national feature films along with international short subjects (since 2006) and student films of young Mediterranean filmmakers (from 2008 on). The 15th edition of the festival was held between June 2–8, 2008.\n\nThe Altın Koza Film Festival was organized for the first time in 1969 jointly by the Adana Cinema Club, Adana Municipality and the State Films Archives under the simple name \"Film Festival\". The event recurred until 1973 uninterrupted. However, in 1974 it came to an end, discontinuing 18 years long. In 1992, the festival was revived with its 6th edition and was held until 1997 under the name \"Altın Koza Culture, Arts and Film Festival\". Due to earthquakes occurred in 1998 and 1999, and later because of economical reasons, the festival could not be continued for seven successive years. In 2005, the Altın Koza Festival resumed with its 12th edition. In 2009, in celebration of its 40th anniversary, the festival published a catalogue prepared by Burçak Evren and edited by Candan Yaygın on the recipients of its honorary awards in its past editions.\n\nThe Golden Boll awards are given in three film categories.\n\nMoney prizes are given in major categories and a Golden Boll statuette is awarded in addition in all the categories:\n\n\n\nThis competition, from 2008 on international, aims to encourage the young filmmakers, who are still students. A Golden Boll statuette is awarded along with money prizes in all categories.\n\n\nThis contest is dedicated to the promotion of the development of short subjects and creative film making in countries bordering the Mediterranean Sea. The festival only accepts short subjects no longer than 20 minutes and documentary films no longer than 30 minutes in English, with English subtitles or sent with English dialogue list.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3094956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3094956", "title": "Internet Privacy Act", "text": "Internet Privacy Act\n\nThe Internet Privacy Act is a non-existent and fictitious law cited by websites that conduct illegal activities in order to deter organizations that look to prosecute such activities. Networks which share music, films and software, for example, often display the fictitious act in an attempt to protect themselves from arrest by being able to claim entrapment in court. In the statement, websites claim that it prevents organizations which may be associated with anti-P2P or government organizations from entering the site or network as it would breach the terms of the act.\n\nAccording to the statement which many sites display, it was signed by Bill Clinton in 1995, but in reality he never signed the act as it never existed. Using this and other such \"disclaimers\" would actually make it easier for such a site to be found via the major search engines.\n\nThe text notice on these sites are usually as follows, but can vary:\nThe false act was first displayed during the late 1990s on many sites that engaged in illegal activities, such as the promotion and distribution of \"knock-off\" (counterfeit) materials. Over time, the paragraph was picked up and copied and pasted with the exception of a few minor variations to match the content of the containing website. An example is provided below:\nThrough the turn of the century, thousands of web, FTP, and other sites used the statement in an attempt to deter authorities. It is sometimes still seen in modern file sharing networks and protocols. Other reasons for it might have been to reassure the visiting public that their actions and data would be somehow protected.\n"}
{"id": "12856959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12856959", "title": "Jacmel Film Festival", "text": "Jacmel Film Festival\n\nThe Jacmel Film Festival is a Haitian festival celebrated in the seaside city of Jacmel, Haiti. It is an annual ceremony celebrating contemporary world cinema and at the same time, entertaining the masses and providing cultural insight through film. Local Haitian cinema is awarded alongside other films as well. The festival is attended by approximately 50,000 people each year.\n\nThe festival was founded by David Belle, an American filmmaker living in Haiti and Patrick Boucard a Haitian artist and founder of a cultural organization in Jacmel. The festival is very recent being staged for the first time in 2004. It has been held annually since. Many internationally renowned directors attend annually from over 30 countries such as Spain, Cuba, the United States, France, and Canada. Many aspiring Haitian student filmmakers attend as a source of knowledge as well as inspiration.\n\n"}
{"id": "15814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15814", "title": "January 29", "text": "January 29\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46447066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46447066", "title": "Jar'Edo Wens hoax", "text": "Jar'Edo Wens hoax\n\nThe Jar'Edo Wens hoax was a deliberately fictitious Wikipedia article, which existed for almost 10 years before being spotted and deleted in March 2015. At the time, it was the longest-lasting hoax article discovered in the history of Wikipedia.\n\nThe unsourced article claimed to be about an Australian Aborigine god (\"of earthly knowledge and physical might, created by Altjira to ensure that people did not get too arrogant or self-conceited. He is associated with victory and intelligence.\"), and was likely simply the name \"Jared Owens\", with different punctuation and capitalization. The author, an unregistered user at an Australian IP address, was active over an eleven-minute period in May 2005. Their only other contribution was to also add \"Yohrmum\" (obviously being a re-spelling of \"Your Mum\") to a list of Australian deities. This was more quickly spotted and removed.\n\nThe hoax was negligently copied into a book on atheism in 2012, as part of a long list of \"gods and religions in history that have fallen out of favour\".\n\nSince 2005, due to the Seigenthaler incident, article creation has been restricted to registered users, making fake articles more difficult to establish. However, people could still edit using IP addresses, but some articles are protected against vandalism (visible as a lock on the edit button).\n\n"}
{"id": "17633685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17633685", "title": "Kartik Purnima", "text": "Kartik Purnima\n\nKartika Purnima is a Hindu, Sikh and Jain cultural festival, celebrated on the Purnima (full moon) day or the fifteenth lunar day of Kartik (November–December). It is also known as Tripuri Purnima and Tripurari Purnima. It is sometimes called Deva-Diwali or Deva-Deepawali - the festival of lights of the gods. Karthikai Deepam is a related festival celebrated in South India and Sri Lanka on a different date.\n\nTripuri Purnima or Tripurari Purnima derives its name from Tripurari - the foe of the demon Tripurasura. In some legends of Kartik Purnima, the term is used to denote the three demon sons of Tārakāsura. Tripurari is an epithet of god Shiva. Shiva in his form as Tripurantaka (\"Killer of Tripurasura\") killed Tripurasura on this day. Tripurasura had conquered the whole world and defeated the gods and also created three cities in space, together called \"Tripura\". The killing of the demon(s) and destruction of his/their cities with a single arrow - by Shiva overjoyed the gods and they declared the day as a festival of illuminations. This day is also called \"Dev-Diwali\"—the Diwali of the gods. Diwali is the Hindu festival of lights.\n\nKartik Purnima is also the birthday of Matsya, god Vishnu's fish-incarnation (avatar). It is also the birthday of Vrinda, the personification of the Tulsi plant and of Kartikeya, the god of war and son of Shiva. This day also is considered special for Radha, the lover of Krishna - Vishnu's incarnation. It is believed that Krishna and Radha danced rasa and Krishna worshipped Radha on this day. This day is also dedicated to the pitrs, dead ancestors.\n\nUnderhill believes that the origins of this festival may lie in ancient times, when a sacrifice called \"Shakamedhah\" was performed to attain victory over enemies.\n\nThe festival has even more significance when the day falls in the nakshatra (lunar mansion) Krittika and is then called \"Maha Kartik\". The nakshatra is Bharani, the results are stated to be special. If it is Rohini nakshatra, then the fruitful results are even much more. Any philanthropic act on this day is supposed to bring benefits and blessings equal to the performing of ten yajnas (sacrifices).\n\nKartik Purnima is closely associated with Prabodhini Ekadashi which marks the end of Chaturmas, a four-month period when Vishnu is believed to sleep. Prabodhini Ekadashi signifies the awakening of the god. Chaturmas penance ends on this day. Many fairs that begin on Prabodhini Ekadashi end on Kartik Purnima, Kartik Purnima usually being the most important day of the fair. Fairs that conclude on this day include Prabodhini Ekadashi celebrations at Pandharpur and Pushkar Fair. Kartik Purnima is also the last day to perform Tulsi Vivah ceremony that can be performed from Prabodhini Ekadashi.\n\nAlso, it is believed that Vishnu, on this day, returns to his abode after completing his stay in Bali. Hence, the day is known as Deva-Diwali.\nIn Pushkar, Rajasthan, the Pushkar Fair or \"Pushkar mela\" commences on Prabodhini Ekadashi and continues till Kartik Purnima, the latter being the most important. This fair is held in honour of god Brahma, whose temple stands at Pushkar. A ritual bath on Kartik Purnima in the Pushkar Lake is considered to lead one to salvation. It is believed circling the three Pushkars on Kartik Purnima is highly meritorious. Sadhus gather here and stay from ekadashi to full moon day in caves. About 200,000 people and 25,000 camels assemble in Pushkar for the fair. Pushkar fair is Asia's largest camel fair.\n\nA ritual bath at a tirtha (a sacred water body like a lake or river) at a pilgrimage centre is prescribed on Kartik Purnima. This holy bath is known as \"Kartik snana\". An holy bath at Pushkar or in the Ganges river, especially at Varanasi is deemed as most auspicious. Kartik Purnima is the most popular day for bathing in the Ganges at Varanasi. The devotees also take a bath in the evening during moonrise and offer worship by way of six prayers such as Shiva sambuti, Satait and so forth.\n\nAnnakuta, an offering of food to the deities, is held in temples. People who have taken vows on Ashvin full moon day, end them on Kartik Purnima. God Vishnu is also worshipped on this day. Any form of violence (\"hinsa\" or \"himsa\") is prohibited on this day. This includes shaving, hair-cutting, cutting of trees, plucking of fruits and flowers, cutting of crops and even, sexual union. Charity especially donation of cows, feeding of Brahmins, fasting are religious activities prescribed for Kartik Purnima. Giving gift of gold is said to fulfill all desires of people.\n\nTripuri Purnima is only next to Maha Shivaratri, amongst festivals dedicated to Shiva worship. To commemorate the killing of Tripurasura, images of Shiva are carried in procession. Temple complexes in southern India are lit up throughout the night. \"Deepmalas\" or towers of lights are illuminated in temples. People place 360 or 720 wicks in temples, to secure escape reaching hell after death. The 720 wicks symbolizes the 360 days and nights of the Hindu calendar. In Varanasi, the ghats come alive with thousands of diyas (brightly lit earthen lamps). People gift lamps to priests. The lamps are kept throughout the night in houses and Shiva temples. This day is also known as \"Kartik Diparatna\" - the jewel of lamps in Kartik. Lights are also floated in miniature boats in rivers. Lights are placed under Tulsi, Sacred fig and Amla trees. The lights in the water and under trees are believed to help fishes, insects and birds who saw the light to attain salvation.\n\nIn Odisha, on Kartik Purnima, people celebrate \"Boita Bandana\"(odia: ବୋଇତ ବନ୍ଦାଣ) by heading for the nearest water body to set afloat miniature boats, originally made out of banana stem and coconut stick, lit with \"deepak\"(lamps), fabric, betel leaves. \"Boita\" stands for boat or ship. The festival is a mass commemoration of the state's glorious maritime history when it was known as Kalinga and tradesmen and mariners known as sadhabas traveled on \"boita\"s to trade with distant island nations that share borders with the Bay of Bengal like Indonesia, Java, Sumatra and Bali.\nIn Tamil Nadu, Karthikai Deepam is celebrated where the Purnima corresponds to the Krittika nakshatra. People light rows of lamps on their balconys. In Tiruvannamalai, a ten-day annual festival is held to celebrate Karthikai Deepam. \n\nIn Telugu households of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karthika maasalu (month) is considered very auspicious. The Kartika month starts on the day of Deepawali. From that day till the end of the month, oil lamps are lit every day. On Karthika Pournami (full moon of Kartheeka month) oil lamp with 365 wicks, prepared at home, are lit in Lord Shiva temples. Apart from that, Kartika puranam is read and fasting is observed till sunset, every day for the whole month.\nSwaminarayan Sampraday also celebrates this day with faith and fervor.\n\nKartik Purnima is an important religious day for Jains who celebrate it by visiting Palitana a Jain pilgrimage centre. Thousands of Jain pilgrims flock to the foothills of Shatrunjay hills of Palitana taluka on the day of Kartik Purnima to undertake the auspicious yatra (journey). Also known as the Shri Shantrunjay Teerth Yatra, this walk is an important religious event in the life of a Jain devotee, who covers 216 km of rough mountainous terrain on foot to worship at the Lord Adinath temple atop the hill.\n\nConsidered to be a very auspicious day for Jains, the day also assumes more significance for the walk, as the hills, which are closed to the public during the four months of Chaturmas, are thrown open for the devotees on Kartik Purnima. The day of Kartik Purnima is very significant in Jainism. As devotees are kept away from worshipping their lord for four months of the monsoon season, the first day attracts the maximum number of devotees. Jains believe that Adinath, the first tirthankara, sanctified the hills by visiting it to deliver his first sermon. According to Jain texts, millions of sadhus and sadhvis have attained salvation on these hills.\n\nThere are no auspicious days in Sikhism. Any month, day or moment a person remembers the Divine is considered auspicious. Guru Nanak was born on 1 Vaisakh, April 14, according to the (Sikh) Nanakshahi calendar. It happened to be a full-moon night.Nanakpanthi Hindus and other followers of Guru Nanak's philosophy celebrate this festival on Kartik Purnima, according to the (Hindu) Bikrami calendar.\nKartik Purnima is celebrated as Gurupurab or Prakash Parva that is Guru Nanak Jayanti Worldwide.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53058388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53058388", "title": "Katie Walsh (politician)", "text": "Katie Walsh (politician)\n\nKatherine Marie Walsh (born November 1, 1984) is an American Republican political operative who briefly served as White House Deputy Chief of Staff for Implementation in the administration of U.S. President Donald Trump. She is currently working with the Trump-aligned 501(c)(4) America First Policies.\n\nWalsh previously served as the Chief of Staff for the Republican National Committee. She joined the Republican National Committee as deputy Finance Director in January 2013 and became Finance Director in June of that year. In her previous role as Deputy Finance Director for the National Republican Senatorial Committee, she worked with United States Senate campaigns across the country to implement comprehensive fundraising and campaign strategies. Her past experience also includes serving as Midwest Regional Finance Director for the McCain–Palin campaign in 2008 and working for Friends of Fred Thompson, at the Ashcroft Group, and as a field representative for Missourians for Matt Blunt.\n\nWalsh was born an only child in St. Louis, Missouri. She credits her early interest in politics to her mother, who she said worked on a county executive race in Missouri when she was seven or eight. Her early political involvement came in high school when she worked as an intern for then-Senator John Ashcroft's unsuccessful 2000 reelection campaign. She attended Visitation Academy of St. Louis, a private, all-girls, Roman Catholic high school, and graduated in 2003. She was a field representative for Matt Blunt's 2004 campaign for Governor of Missouri. She also worked as an administrative assistant for the consulting firm Ashcroft Group.\n\nWalsh graduated from George Washington University with degrees in marketing and finance in 2007.\n\nWalsh was hired in 2007 as an assistant to the finance director for Fred Thompson's brief presidential campaign.\n\nAfter Thompson dropped out of the race, she joined the presidential campaign of John McCain as Midwest regional finance director.\n\nWalsh then worked as deputy finance director for the National Republican Senatorial Committee (NRSC), implementing fundraising and political strategies for Senate campaigns during the 2010 and 2012 election cycles.\n\nWalsh was hired as deputy finance director for the Republican National Committee in January 2013 and rose to finance director that June. At the RNC, Walsh was known as \"rainmaker\", breaking records by raising over $200 million during the 2014 election cycle.\n\nWalsh was named chief of staff of the Republican National Committee in early 2015, serving under chair Reince Priebus. She was critical of the RNC's practice of sharing voter information with the Koch Brothers, saying \"I think it's very dangerous and wrong to allow a group of very strong, well-financed individuals who have no accountability to anyone to have control over who gets access to the data when, why and how.\" Spearheaded by the RNC's technology chief Andrew Barkett for the 2014 election cycle, she ensured that a partnership began in July 2015 between the voter information in the RNC's Data Trust, operated by Karl Rove and developed by Johnny DeStefano, and the voter information in the Americans for Prosperity and Freedom Partners' i360, which is supported by the Koch Brothers network, so that each database's information would be shared with GOP candidates. The RNC's Data Trust had been sharing its information with the independent groups American Crossroads and American Action Network. The extensive personal information in both i360 and DataTrust are developed from credit card use and internet choices such as credit card purchases, cable TV choices, and other sensitive personal information, much more personal than Facebook data. During the 2016 election cycle, Walsh was an architect of the Republican National Committee's get out the vote and voter identification operations. She focused on using the Republican National Committee's data collection from the previous four years. She told CNN that the RNC intended to look to polls less often in favor of \"predictive modeling,\" which tracks voters' likelihood of voting for Republican candidates. In November 2016, she said, \"The beauty of predictive modeling is you're watching an electorate voter-by-voter over a long period of time ... You're watching their movement, you're watching what they care about, you're watching what they respond to to [\"sic\"] and there are a lot of upsides to this.\" She went on to say that the Republican National Committee was also focusing on get out the vote efforts for Donald Trump's presidential campaign. Walsh selected Alex Lundry's political marketing firm Deep Root Analytics to provide data analytics to the Trump campaign, along with TargetPoint Consulting and Causeway Solutions.\n\nWalsh was a member of Donald Trump's presidential transition team. The transition team was a group of around 100 aides, policy experts, government affairs officials, and former government officials who were tasked with vetting, interviewing, and recommending individuals for top cabinet and staff roles in Trump's administration. She was part of the Leadership staff.\n\nWalsh was named White House Deputy Chief of Staff for Implementation in the administration of Donald Trump. Walsh oversaw senior staff and managed scheduling and the Office of Public Liaison. According to \"The Wall Street Journal\", Walsh had guarded access to the Oval Office on behalf of Chief of Staff Reince Priebus.\n\nWalsh resigned from her position on March 30, 2017, becoming an adviser to a pro-Trump 501(c)(4), America First Policies, and the Republican National Committee.\n\n"}
{"id": "31565895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31565895", "title": "Knockout game", "text": "Knockout game\n\n\"Knockout game\" is one of the names given in the United States by news media and others to assaults in which one person (with others acting as accomplices or lookouts) attempt to \"knock out\", with a single sucker punch, an unsuspecting victim. The assaults have similarities to the happy slapping trend seen in Europe, in which camera phones are used to record assaults. Other names given to assaults of this type include \"knockout\", \"knockout king\", \"point 'em out, knock 'em out\", and \"polar-bearing\" or \"polar-bear hunting\" (allegedly called such when the victim is white and the assailants are not).\n\nSerious injuries and even deaths have been attributed to the knockout game. Some news sources report that there was an escalation of such attacks in late 2013, and, in some cases, the attacker was charged with a hate crime. Other media analysts, such as Slate, have cast doubt on the reportedly widespread nature of the game and have labeled the trend, although not the attacks themselves, a myth.\n\nIn September 1992, Norwegian exchange student Yngve Raustein was killed by three teenagers who—according to Cambridge, Massachusetts, prosecutors—were playing a game called \"knockout.\" Local teens said that the object is to render an unsuspecting target unconscious with a single punch, and, if the assailant does not succeed, his companions will turn on him instead.\n\nIn 2005 in the United Kingdom, BBC News reported on the happy slapping incidents, in which the attacks were filmed for the purpose of posting online. The French government responded to this trend by making it illegal to film any acts of violence and post them online, with a spokesperson for then President Nicolas Sarkozy saying that the law was indeed directed at \"happy slapping.\"\n\nThree teens were arrested in Decatur, Illinois, in September 2009, and charged in the killing of a bicyclist, 61, who was stomped to death, and the attempted murder of another man, 46, who was also attacked and stomped. It was claimed that the teens were playing \"point 'em out, knock 'em out,\" where a person is selected and a group of attackers attempts to render the victim unconscious.\n\nIn June 2009, a 29-year-old man was beaten in a Columbia, Missouri, parking garage by a group of teens who told police that they were playing a game called \"knockout king,\" where they would find an unsuspecting person and attempt to knock him out with a single punch.\n\nIn April 2011, Hoang Nguyen, 72, died in St. Louis, Missouri, after he was attacked in what was described by a local CBS station as \"part of the so-called knockout game\". Nguyen's wife, Yen, 62, was injured. After the trial, the assailant, Elex Murphy, a teenager who was 18 at the time of the assault, was sentenced to life in prison plus 25 years.\n\nIn July 2012, 62-year-old Delfino Mora was attacked by three teens and killed in West Rogers Park, Chicago. Anthony Malcolm, who recorded the attack on his cell phone and publicized it, was sentenced to 30 years in prison. Two other teens were awaiting trial in September 2013. The attack was said to be part of a game called \"pick 'em out, knock 'em out.\"\n\nIn 2013, a series of these attacks resulted in the deaths of the victims, all with some sort of game as a precipitating factor. Michael Daniels, 51, of Syracuse, New York died a day after being attacked in May 2013, with the \"knockout game\" later mentioned in regard to his death.\n\nRalph Santiago, a disabled homeless resident of Hoboken, New Jersey, was found dead after being attacked by three boys whose assault was linked to the \"knockout\" game.\n\n\"Yale Daily News\" reported seven attacks during November 2013 in New Haven, Connecticut that could be associated with the knockout game. Yale University's chief of police wrote an email to the campus community pertaining to the issue on November 21.\n\nIn the United States, \"The New York Times\" noted \"a growing log of reports of such crimes in the Northeast and beyond\". A number of news stories in late November 2013 covered incidents in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, where a series of attacks took place during October and November of that year. As a result, the NYPD responded by stepping up patrols in certain neighborhoods.\n\nOn November 24, 2013, in Katy, Texas, an 81-year-old African-American man was attacked and hospitalized. Two weeks later, Conrad Alvin Barrett, 29, was arrested after allegedly showing an off-duty police officer a video he recorded with his cell phone of himself perpetrating the attack and explicitly referencing \"knockout\". Investigators revealed that there were other videos on his phone in which he used racial epithets and another in which he wondered if he would receive media attention if he were to commit a \"knockout game\" attack on a black man. This was one of the first cases in which the victim was African-American. Previous instances in the US primarily involved white or Asian victims and African-American assailants. The Justice Department subsequently charged Barrett with a hate crime, the only time the DOJ involved itself in prosecuting these attacks. Barrett's attorney claimed his client suffers from bipolar disorder and was not on medication at the time of the attack. In October 2015, Barrett was sentenced to 71 months (5 years and 11 months) in federal incarceration. He still faces charges in state court.\n\nOn July 27, 2016 in Milan, Italian police arrested a young Spaniard on vacation in Italy, after he made repeated assaults on passersby, similar to this \"game\". On that same date, in Greenville, South Carolina a man was attacked while playing \"Pokemon GO\".\n\nIn December 2015 a man in New York was reported assaulted by a non-black teen playing the \"knockout game\". The perpetrator turned himself in two months later.\n\nOn August 29, 2016 a 30-year-old Guatemalan, Mardoquo Sincal Jochola, was fatally assaulted in Philadelphia and is alleged to have been a victim of the \"knockout game\".\n\nOn July 31, 2017, an unidentified man was caught on camera while knocking out a 24-year-old woman, Yana Rozanova, in Pervomaisk, Mykolaiv Oblast, Ukraine.\n\nSeveral attacks on Jewish victims in Brooklyn in 2013 have been called antisemitic hate crimes. \"ABC Nightline\" reported that New York City police believed that antisemitism was likely to be a motive in the attacks, as all eight victims were identified as Jewish.\n\nJewish community leaders in Brooklyn have spoken out on the subject, and the Anti-Defamation League regional office issued a public statement on knockout attacks \"targeting Jewish individuals in Brooklyn\". Amrit Marajh, a 28-year-old suspect in an attack that took place in Brooklyn, was charged with a hate crime as his victim was Jewish. Marajh has claimed innocence and denied the claims of antisemitism.\n\nOn December 3, newly elected African-American Democratic New York City councilwoman Laurie Cumbo added a letter to her Facebook page saying: \"The accomplishments of the Jewish community triggers feelings of resentment, and a sense that Jewish success is not also their success.\" The Anti-Defamation League said her post was \"troubling\" and that it evoked \"classic anti-Semitic stereotypes.\" Cumbo later issued an apology for the remarks. Cumbo added that the lives of victims and suspects will never be the same and that attackers would be \"prosecuted to the full extent of the law\". NYPD Commissioner Raymond Kelly later stated that he was avoiding referring to the attacks as part of any sort of trend to avoid further copycat attacks and has instead been labeling them as hate crimes.\n\nOn November 21, 2013 Republican New York State assemblyman Jim Tedisco put forward legislation called the \"Knockout Assault Deterrent Act\" to charge juvenile offenders in these type of attacks as adults, and would also punish those who were found recording the attacks. New York State Senator Hugh Farley (also a Republican) supports legislation that would make assailants linked to the knockout game liable to harsher sentences, would try juvenile offenders as adults, and would make accomplices criminally responsible. Democratic assemblyman John McDonald, while admitting stiffer penalties were warranted claimed Tedisco's bill was unnecessary.\n\nIn Wisconsin, Republican State Assemblyman Dean Kaufert said he was considering drafting a bill to deter attacks.\n\nAfter incidents during late 2013 in Brooklyn in which Jews were victims of knockout attacks, Jewish leaders, councilmembers, and organization representatives spoke against the attacks.\n\nLeaders from the African-American community also made statements. New York City councilman Charles Barron stated that the root of the problem was a need for jobs to keep young people out of trouble; he also suggested additional funding for community patrols to act as lookouts. Representative Hakeem Jeffries said at a Crown Heights Youth Collective conference that attacks based on race will not be tolerated and that the collective will do everything in its power to see that justice is done. Brooklyn's then-District Attorney-elect Kenneth P. Thompson called out the attacks, saying that \"there is no status to be gained\" for knocking out an unsuspecting victim and that such violence will not be tolerated. Brooklyn Borough President-elect Eric Adams affirmed Thompson's statement, saying that, if you \"play this game, ... you will lose\".\n\nOther notable New York City community members who have spoken against the attacks include Reverend Al Sharpton and Dov Hikind. Al Sharpton, Russell Simmons, Foundation for Ethnic Understanding founder Rabbi Marc Schneier, former NYC mayor David Dinkins and former New Orleans mayor and current National Urban League president Marc Morial released a video in December 2013 saying \"No to K.O.\" Retired Brooklyn-born boxer Mike Tyson has also spoken against the attacks on \"The Piers Morgan Show\".\n\nThe existence of a growing trend of knockout attacks has been questioned; claims about the prevalence of the phenomenon have been called an \"urban myth\" and a \"type of panic\" by some political analysts.\n\nA June 2011 investigative report by John Tucker of the \"Riverfront Times\" following the death of Hoang Nguyen in 2011 saw many related attacks, all attributed to the \"Knockout King\" game. St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department Chief Daniel Isom stated that a year prior the police determined that the knockout game was played by a group of children who went around trying to knock random people unconscious. The police estimated the activity was not widespread and limited to five or nine teens. In Tucker's interviews with local teens, they believed the number to be much higher; one 18-year-old estimated 10-15% of his peers played the game. A St. Louis area barber said that in his youth the phenomenon was not called \"Knockout King\" but \"One Hitter Quitter\". Mike Males of the Center on Juvenile and Criminal Justice claimed that the media has been cherry-picking related attacks for sensationalism, asserting that \"This knockout-game legend is a fake trend.\" Police at the time believed such attacks might have been under-reported by immigrant victims in communities where relations with law enforcement had been tense.\n\nAn attack from 2012 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania was tentatively linked to more recent attacks, although it was never identified as part of any \"game\". Police in Syracuse, New York, reported that one assailant in a fatal attack admitted to its being \"knockout\", with a police sergeant noting that the assaults he was investigating were definitely \"for a game\" rather than being attempted murders or robberies. \n\nOn November 23, 2013, \"The New York Times\" reported that police officials in New York City were considering their position on the \"game\" and were wondering if they should advise the public, but had to contend with the uncertain existence of the game. Police in New York City questioned whether they were faced with a trend or a series of isolated incidents. Then-New York Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly refused to refer to the attacks in Brooklyn as the \"knockout game\" to avoid possible copycat attacks.\n\nSeveral assaults associated with the knockout game do not follow any particular pattern; in several instances, a single assailant attempted a one-punch attack while in others multiple assailants participated in a gang attack. The \"Knockout King\" death of Nguyen in St. Louis was such a gang attack. A purported trend was identified in Lansing, Michigan called \"point 'em out, knock 'em out\" involved the use of a Taser.\n\nMany officials have outright refused to refer to the assaults as a \"game\", with Philadelphia Mayor Michael Nutter explicitly stating he did not want to give the idea any credibility while at a press conference after an attack at a Philadelphia pizzeria where the suspects never mentioned the game. In a CNN interview with Don Lemon, Nutter stated he was not sure if the knockout game is real or not, adding he less concerned about the name but saying the incidents are of \"great concern\" and could spark copycat behavior. Nutter would not answer if the attacks were racially motivated and stated that Philadelphia has no confirmed \"game\" incidents. Earlier, Philadelphia Police spokeswoman Tanya Little determined a November 11 attack as part of a knockout game.\n\nJamelle Bouie of \"The Daily Beast\" was critical of the game's existence as a trend, comparing its existence to the \"wilding\" assault allegedly at hand in the Central Park jogger case and the often reported headlight flashing urban legend. While he did not deny that several people were attacked and one had died, he pointed out that the attacks were not really rare, noting the FBI had reported 127,577 unarmed assaults in 2012.\n\nWhen Singal approached several local news stations, a representative from an NBC affiliate responded saying that the footage had been taken from a shared pool of stock footage that other NBC stations in the area were given, and generally, if the footage is found to be inaccurate there would be a digital note concerning it. The note was absent in the case of the London video for reasons unknown. Singal's investigation led him to believe that people around the country are being told a story that has not been properly researched.\n\nChris Hayes, host of MSNBC's \"All In with Chris Hayes\", gave the knockout game his first annual \"Over-Covered Stories of the Year\" award, due to what he perceived as excessive coverage by Fox News.\n\nRobin Abcarian for the \"Los Angeles Times\" criticized this reporting style by a conservative analyst, saying that blame was shifted onto the federal government. Abcarian noted that Barrett explicitly stated he was seeking a black victim, and postulated that he may have been acting on this \"lazy narrative that black teens were randomly attacking white people\". She criticized the statement by Rev. Sharpton and the conservative news sources who began supporting him after decades of opposition.\n\nTommy Christopher, writing for Mediaite, claimed James Rosen's report for Fox News on the attack was misleading, noting claims made by Rosen that it is the first such attack to be charged as a hate crime, when it was the first under federal statute. Christopher cited the arrest of Amrit Marajh in Brooklyn and the investigation of the alleged assault on Taj Patterson, a gay black man who claimed he was attacked by a group of Orthodox Jewish men, as proof of this.\n\nAbcarian criticized the reporting of this attack as possibly being related to the knockout game trend, as the alleged attackers sought out Patterson because he was gay rather than because he is black. She also brought up a case of a fabrication of a \"knockout\"-style attack, after the victim and her boyfriend revealed she had lied that she was attacked at random by a stranger and instead he had struck her, noting that the \"St. Louis Post-Dispatch\" did not report the initial attack as a \"knockout game\" attack. Abcarian claimed that the 2011 attack by Dajour Washington on James Addlesburger was being used for sensationalism. The video of the assault was shown by Bill O'Reilly, which Addlesburger felt was being exploited and manipulated to fan racial hatred. Washington, who spent nine months in juvenile detention for the attack, appeared on \"Nightline\" in 2013 and claimed he had not attacked Addlesburger because he was white but rather because he was the only man present. Washington also claimed that at the time of the attack he had never heard of the \"knockout game\".\n\n"}
{"id": "37480343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37480343", "title": "List of Pebble Beach Concours d'Elegance Best of Show winners", "text": "List of Pebble Beach Concours d'Elegance Best of Show winners\n\nThe Pebble Beach Concours d'Elegance is held annually in Monterey, California. Of the various awards given at the car show, the most significant is Best of Show. This article is a list of the Pebble Beach Concours d'Elegance Best of Show winners. \n"}
{"id": "41190848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41190848", "title": "Malcolm Fewtrell", "text": "Malcolm Fewtrell\n\nErnest Malcolm Fewtrell (28 September 1909 – 28 November 2005) was a Detective Chief Superintendent in the Buckinghamshire Constabulary and head of Buckinghamshire CID. He led the initial investigation into the Great Train Robbery in 1963. \n\nFewtrell was born in Ryde, on the Isle of Wight, where his father was a police officer. He attended Reading School, then spent 6 months in New South Wales, Australia working as a jackaroo on sheep stations. He then returned to the UK and became a police cadet with the Buckinghamshire Constabulary in 1927. Three of his five brothers also joined the police. After serving a uniformed police constable, he joined Buckinghamshire CID. He married Anne Thomas in 1934, who was a nurse in the hospital where he had his appendix removed.\n\nHis reserved occupation as a police officer made him exempt from military service in the Second World War. He rose through the police ranks, becoming Detective Inspector at Chesham in 1950, and Detective Superintendent in 1954, and head of Buckinghamshire CID. He was involved in the A6 murder investigation when he was asked to find 10 redheaded men for an identity parade with James Hanratty.\n\nOn 8 August 1963, Fewtrell was called out in the early morning to Bridgego Bridge, near Linslade. He was head of the Buckinghamshire CID located at Aylesbury, and within a year of his scheduled retirement.\n\nThe track-side signal lights had been tampered with to stop the Glasgow–London mail train. The engine and the high-value carriage, containing money deposited at Scottish banks after the previous bank holiday weekend, had been decoupled from the other carriages, which were left a mile behind at Sears Crossing. The gang of robbers escaped with £2,600,000 of used banknotes. The train's driver, Jack Mills, had been beaten over the head and never fully recovered.\n\nFewtrell arrived at the scene of the crime at 5am and gathered evidence before taking statements from the driver and postal workers at Cheddington railway station. He established that about 15 hooded men in boiler suits were involved. Fewtrell originally thought that the robbers could have escaped to London via the nearby M1, but one member of the gang had made the mistake of telling the postal staff not to move for half an hour after they left and this suggested to the police that their hide-out could not be more than away. Having failed to find any forensic evidence at the crime scene, the police fanned out on a major search. \n\nThe resources of the Buckinghamshire police force were stretched, and Fewtrell advised the Chief Constable of Buckinghamshire to call in the Metropolitan Police at Scotland Yard. Over the following days, Fewtrell worked closely with Detective Superintendent Gerald McArthur reviewing the clues in the local area, while Detective Chief Superintendent Tommy Butler and Detective Sergeant Jack Slipper investigated leads in London. The gang's hideout at Leatherslade Farm near Oakley was discovered a few days later. After the farm was found by local police, Fewtrell visited with two Metropolitan Police detectives, where they found food, drink, and items from the train, all covered with fingerprints. As Fewtrell later recalled, \"the whole place is one big clue.\" Fewtrell also interviewed Brian Field who was a solicitor's clerk who helped the robbers buy their hideout and he obtained an admission of responsibility for a hotel bill paid for with some of the stolen money. Most of the gang were captured, with the first arrests on 15 August.\n\nThe trial of the gang members opened in Aylesbury in January 1964. The local court building was too small for the numbers of defendants, lawyers, witnesses and journalists in attendance, so the trial was held in the offices of Aylesbury District Council instead. Fewtrell was in charge of security of the venue and the accused, and the evidence (including £300,000 in cash that had been recovered).\n\nFewtrell's last day of service in the police was 16 April 1964, when he attended court for the sentencing. Six of the twelve defendants were sentenced to 30 years in prison – a total 307 years between then.\n\nWith journalist Ronald Payne, Fewtrell wrote two long articles in \"The Sunday Telegraph\" on 19 and 26 April 1964, and a book, \"The Train Robbers\" in 1964.\n\nOn leaving the police he worked at Portsmouth Polytechnic as an accommodation officer. He retired a second time in 1974, to Swanage in Dorset where he administered the neighbourhood watch.\n\nHe died at Poole Hospital, after a stroke. His wife predeceased him, and he was survived by a son and a daughter. His obituary in the \"Daily Telegraph\" noted a passing resemblance to John Thaw playing Inspector Morse.\nMalcolm Fewtrell is a character in \"A Copper's Tale\", the second part of a BBC television drama entitled \"The Great Train Robbery\" that was broadcast in December 2013. The role was played by Richard Hope.\n"}
{"id": "6139599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6139599", "title": "ManBeef.com", "text": "ManBeef.com\n\nManBeef.com was an elaborate hoax site beginning in January 2001, purporting to sell human meat, and offering tips and recipes on preparing meals. Colorful pictures and illustrations adorned the site to further the appearance of legitimacy. Like Bonsai Kitten, many individuals fell for the hoax and were disgusted. News of the site spread primarily by means of e-mail forwarding, often in the form of petitions calling to stop the immorality.\n\nTo avoid exposing the hoax, ManBeef claimed they did not allow customers to purchase meat products from the site itself. \"We do this, because we prefer to deal with our customers on a more personal basis,\" the disclaimer stated in part. The only products actually available to purchase were souvenir merchandise such as mousepads, mugs and t-shirts.\n\nAt its peak, the site received about 500,000 hits daily. It was causing so much controversy that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) launched an investigation, and found no wrongdoing because there was no evidence of human meat actually being sold. In June 2001, the creators of the site, Chris Ellerby and Joseph Mallett, who used the combined pseudonym \"Joseph Christopherson\", declared that the site was indeed a hoax, and in July, issued a statement to \"The Columbian\" stating the purpose of the site was to \"outrage the more sensitive viewers\".\n\nIn 2005, the registration for the ManBeef.com domain name expired and was quickly taken by a pornography-themed cybersquatter. , the website was a parked domain for sale at >= $10,000.\n\nKittyBeef.com and PuppyBeef.com (now defunct) were similar hoax sites that claimed to sell cat and dog meat. They used the ManBeef site as a template, though cat meat and dog meat are in fact readily consumed in parts of the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3383315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3383315", "title": "Messabout", "text": "Messabout\n\nA messabout is an event where a group of people get together to discuss and \"mess about\" in boats. The concept is not new but the name is. The term originated in April 1990 when Joe Tribulato organized the first such event with this name. This was the beginning of the Southern California Small Boat Messabout Society, SCSBMS.\n\nThe term is derived from the children's book \"The Wind in the Willows\", by Kenneth Grahame. In the story, Mole and Rat are rowing up the river in Rat's boat. They are discussing nautical things and life in general when Rat is heard to utter, \n\nBelieve me, my young friend, there is nothing — absolutely nothing — half so much worth doing as simply messing about in boats. Simply messing... about in boats — or with boats. In or out of ’em, it doesn't matter. Nothing seems really to matter, that's the charm of it. Whether you get away, or whether you don't; whether you arrive at your destination or whether you reach somewhere else, or whether you never get anywhere at all, you're always busy, and you never do anything in particular; and when you've done it there's always something else to do, and you can do it if you like, but you'd much better not.\n\nMessabouts are usually attended by a group of people who have taken up boat building, boating and all things boat-related as their primary hobby. While many people have been at this hobby for quite some time, the advent of the Internet has allowed them to network on a level not seen before. They come from all over to get together for camaraderie. \"Messabouts\" is replaced in UK especially on canals by \"banter\" and the emphasis will be more on talk and camaraderie than actually doing anything constructive.\n\n"}
{"id": "25686269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25686269", "title": "Mieres uprising", "text": "Mieres uprising\n\nThe Mieres uprising () was a peasant revolt which occurred on 22 September 1484 in the valley of Mieres (Garrotxa). It was led by Pere Joan Sala, and precipitated by the attempted seizure of the property of farmers that were not willing to accede to the \"droit du seigneur\". It was the beginning of the Second War of the Remences (\"Peasants' War\").\n\nThe revolt came about in the environment following the Catalan Civil War, and the king's 1481 approval of a constitution favouring the rights of the nobility over those of the remensas.\n"}
{"id": "10134960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10134960", "title": "Muslim conquest of Sicily", "text": "Muslim conquest of Sicily\n\nThe Muslim conquest of Sicily began in June 827 and lasted until 902, when the last major Byzantine stronghold on the island, Taormina, fell. Isolated fortresses remained in Byzantine hands until 965, but the island was henceforth under Muslim rule until conquered in turn by the Normans in the 11th century.\n\nAlthough Sicily had been raided by the Muslims since the mid-7th century, these raids did not threaten Byzantine control over the island, which remained a largely peaceful backwater. The opportunity for the Aghlabid emirs of Ifriqiya came in 827, when the commander of the island's fleet, Euphemius, rose in revolt against the Byzantine Emperor Michael II. Defeated by loyalist forces and driven from the island, Euphemius sought the aid of the Aghlabids. The latter regarded this as an opportunity for expansion and for diverting the energies of their own fractious military establishment and alleviate the criticism of the Islamic scholars by championing \"jihad\", and dispatched an army to aid him. Following the Arab landing on the island, Euphemius was quickly sidelined. An initial assault on the island's capital, Syracuse, failed, but the Muslims were able to weather the subsequent Byzantine counter-attack and hold on to a few fortresses. With the aid of reinforcements from Ifriqiya and al-Andalus, in 831 they took Palermo, which became the capital of the new Muslim province.\n\nThe Byzantine government sent a few expeditions to aid the locals against the Muslims, but preoccupied with the struggle against the Abbasids on their eastern frontier and with the Cretan Saracens in the Aegean Sea, it was unable to mount a sustained effort to drive back the Muslims, who over the next three decades raided Byzantine possessions almost unopposed. The strong fortress of Enna in the centre of the island was the main Byzantine bulwark against Muslim expansion, until its capture in 859. Following its fall, the Muslims increased their pressure against the eastern parts of the island, and after a long siege captured Syracuse in 878. The Byzantines retained control of some fortresses in the north-eastern corner of the island for some decades thereafter, and launched a number of efforts to recover the island until well into the 11th century, but were unable to seriously challenge Muslim control over Sicily. The fall of the last major Byzantine fortress, Taormina, in 902, is held to mark the completion of the Muslim conquest of Sicily.\n\nUnder Muslim rule, Sicily prospered and eventually detached itself from Ifriqiya to form a semi-independent emirate. The island's Muslim community survived the Norman conquest in the 1060s and even prospered under the Norman kings, giving birth to a unique cultural mix, until it was deported to Lucera in the 1220s after a failed uprising.\n\nThroughout the imperial Roman period, Sicily was a quiet, prosperous backwater. Only in the 5th century did it suffer from raids by the Vandals operating from the coasts of North Africa. In 535, the island came under Byzantine control and was raided by the Ostrogoths in the Gothic War, but calm returned thereafter. Protected by the sea, the island was spared the ravages inflicted on Byzantine Italy through the Lombard invasions of the late 6th and early 7th centuries, and retained a still flourishing urban life and a civilian administration. It was only the increasing threat of the Muslim expansion that thrust it into the limelight. As John Bagnell Bury writes, \"A fruitful land and a desirable possession in itself, Sicily's central position between the two basins of the Mediterranean rendered it an object of supreme importance to any Eastern sea-power which was commercially or politically aggressive; while for an ambitious ruler in Africa it was the steppingstone to Italy and the gates of the Adriatic.\"\n\nConsequently, the island was early on targeted by the Muslims, the first raid occurring in 652, only a few years after the establishment of the first Muslim navy. Following the onset of Muslim attacks against North Africa, it became a crucial strategic base, and for a while, in 661–668, it was the residence of the imperial court under Constans II. Constituted as a theme around 690, its governing \"strategos\" also came to assume control over the scattered imperial possessions in the southern Italian mainland. The island was raided thereafter, especially in the first half of the 8th century, but did not come under serious threat until the Muslims completed their conquest of North Africa and moved into Hispania as well. It was Abd al-Rahman al-Fihri, the Abbasid governor of Ifriqiya, who first made plans to invade the island in force and attempt to capture it and Sardinia in 752–753, but he was thwarted by a Berber rebellion.\n\nIn 799, the founder of the Aghlabid dynasty, Ibrahim ibn al-Aghlab, secured recognition of his position as autonomous emir of Ifriqiya by the Abbasid caliph, Harun al-Rashid, thereby marking the establishment of a practically independent state centred on modern Tunisia. In 805, Ibrahim concluded a ten-year truce with the Byzantine governor of Sicily, which was renewed by Ibrahim's son and successor Abdallah I in 813. During this time, the Aghlabids were too preoccupied with their rivalry with the Idrisids to the west to plan any serious assault on Sicily. Instead, there are testimonies of commercial traffic between Sicily and Ifriqiya, and of the presence of Arab traders on the island.\n\nThe occasion for the invasion of Sicily was provided by the rebellion of the \"tourmarches\" Euphemius, commander of the island's fleet. According to later and possibly fictional accounts, driven by lust for a nun, he had forced her to marry him. Her brothers protested to Emperor Michael II, and the Byzantine ruler ordered the island's \"strategos\", Constantine Soudas, to investigate the matter and if the charges were found true, to cut off Euphemius' nose as punishment. Thus it came that Euphemius, returning from a naval raid against the African coast, learned that he was to be arrested. Instead, he sailed for Syracuse, occupying the city, while the governor sought refuge in the interior. Euphemius soon managed to gain the support of a large part of the island's military leadership. Euphemius repulsed an attempt by Constantine to recover Syracuse, forcing the governor to flee to Catana. Euphemius' forces pursued and drove Constantine out of Catana, and eventually captured and executed him. Euphemius was then proclaimed emperor. The historian Alexander Vasiliev doubts the \"romantic\" story of the origin of Euphemius' revolt, and believes that the ambitious general simply used an opportune moment, when the central Byzantine government was weakened by the recent Revolt of Thomas the Slav, and by its preoccupation with the contemporary Muslim conquest of Crete, to seize power for himself.\n\nAt this point, however, Euphemius was deserted by one of his closest and most powerful allies, a man known through Arab sources as \"Balata\" (according to Vasiliev probably a corruption of his title, while Treadgold holds that he was named Plato), and his cousin Michael, commander of Palermo. The two men denounced Euphemius' usurpation of the imperial title and marched against Syracuse, defeated Euphemius and took the city.\n\nLike one of his predecessors, Elpidius, who had rebelled under Irene of Athens, Euphemius resolved to seek refuge among the Empire's enemies and with a few supporters sailed to Ifriqiya. There he sent a delegation to the Aghlabid court, which pleaded with the Aghlabid emir Ziyadat Allah for an army to help Euphemius conquer Sicily, after which he would pay the Aghlabids an annual tribute. This offer came as a great opportunity for the Aghlabids, who faced long-simmering ethnic tensions between Arab settlers and Berbers, dissension and rebellions within the Arab ruling elite (the \"jund\"), and criticism for their preoccupation with worldly concerns, their \"un-Islamic\" system of taxation and their luxurious lifestyle from the jurists of the Malikite school. Indeed, at the time of Euphemius' arrival, Ziyadat Allah had just suppressed a dangerous three-year revolt of the \"jund\" under Mansur al-Tunbudhi. As Alex Metcalfe writes, \"by undertaking a \"jihad\" to expand the frontiers of Islam at the expense of the infidels by conquest – the first major undertaking since the invasion of the Iberian Peninsula from 711 – they could silence the criticism of the jurists. At the same time, they could redirect the destructive energies of a restless \"jund\" across the Ifriqiyan–Sicilian channel to secure new sources of manpower and wealth\".\n\nZiyadat Allah's council was divided over the issue, but in the end the exhortations of the respected \"qadi\" of Kairouan, Asad ibn al-Furat, who used quotations from the \"Quran\" to support his case, swayed them. Asad was placed at the head of the expedition even while retaining his office of \"qadi\", normally incompatible with a military post. The Muslim expeditionary forces is said to have consisted of ten thousand foot soldiers and seven hundred cavalry, mostly Ifriqiyan Arabs and Berbers, but possibly also some Khurasanis. The fleet comprised seventy or a hundred ships, to which were added Euphemius' own vessels.\n\nOn 14 June 827, the allied fleets sailed from the Bay of Sousse, and after three days they reached Mazara in southwestern Sicily, where they landed. There they were met with soldiers loyal to Euphemius, but the alliance soon began to show rifts: a Muslim detachment mistook some of Euphemius' partisans for loyalist troops, and a skirmish ensued. Although Euphemius' troops were ordered to place a twig on their helmets as a distinctive mark, Asad announced his intention to wage the campaign without them. Soon after that, Balata, who seems to have taken over the functions, if not the title, of the imperial \"strategos\" on the island, appeared nearby with a Byzantine force. The two armies clashed on a plain south-east of Mazara, where Asad's men, after exhortations by their leader, gained a victory. Balata retreated first to Enna and from there to Calabria on the Italian mainland, where he may have hoped to gather more troops. Instead, he died there shortly after his arrival.\n\nAsad then left Mazara under Abu Zaki al-Kinani, and turned to Syracuse: the Muslim army advanced along the southern shore towards the island's capital, but at Qalat al-Qurrat (possibly ancient Acrae), it was met by an embassy from the city which offered tribute if the Muslims halted their advance. The proposal was probably designed to buy time for the city to better prepare itself for a siege, but Asad, either persuaded by the emissaries' assurances or needing to rest his army, halted his advance for a few days. At the same time, Euphemius began to regret his alliance with the Aghlabids, and opened secret contacts with the imperials, urging them to resist the Arabs. The Muslims recommenced their advance soon after, and laid siege to the city. Byzantium, which at the same time was forced to face a threat much closer to home at Crete, was unable to send much aid to the beleaguered island, while the Muslims received reinforcements from Africa. Giustiniano Participazio, the \"dux\" of the imperial protectorate of Venice, came to the city's aid, but was not able to raise the siege. The besiegers however suffered from lack of supplies as well as the outbreak of a disease in spring 828, which cost Asad his life. He was replaced by Muhammad ibn Abu'l-Jawari. When a Byzantine fleet arrived, the Arabs raised the siege and tried to sail back to Africa, but were hindered by the Byzantine ships. Thwarted, the Muslim army burned its ships and retreated over land to the castle of Mineo, which surrendered to them after three days.\n\nDespite his contacts with the imperials, Euphemius was now willing to serve as their guide, evidently hoping that the Muslims, humbled by their failure and without the strong will of Asad to guide them, could now be made to serve his purposes. After Mineo surrendered, the Muslim army divided in two: one part took Agrigento in the west, while the other, along with Euphemius, attacked Enna. The garrison of Enna began negotiations, offering to acknowledge Euphemius' authority, but when Euphemius with a small escort met with their emissaries, he was murdered. It is unknown what happened to Euphemius' supporters after his death, whether they dispersed or continued fighting alongside the Muslims.\n\nIn spring 829, Michael II sent a new fleet to Sicily under Theodotus, who was well acquainted with the island, having already served as its \"strategos\" in the past. After landing, Theodotus marched his army to Enna, where the Arabs were continuing the siege. He was defeated in the subsequent battle, but was able to find refuge in the fortress with most of his men. The Muslims now became so confident of victory that they struck their first coins on the island, in the name of Ziyadat Allah and Muhammad ibn Abu'l-Jawari, who however died a short while after and was replaced by Zubayr ibn Gawth. Shortly after that, Theodotus managed to reverse the situation: he led a sally that routed a Muslim raiding party and then defeated the main Muslim army on the next day, killing 1,000 men and pursuing the rest up to the Muslims' fortified encampment, which he placed under siege. The Muslims tried to break out in a night sortie, but Theodotus was expecting such a move and routed them in an ambush.\n\nThe remains of the Muslim army once again sought refuge in Mineo, where Theodotus blockaded them and soon reduced them to the point of eating their horses and even dogs. When they heard of this reversal, the Arab garrison of Agrigento abandoned the city and retreated to Mazara. Thus, by the autumn of 829, Sicily had almost been cleared of the Muslim invaders.\n\nTheodotus' success was not to be completed, however as in early summer 830, a fleet from the Umayyad Emirate of Córdoba in al-Andalus, under Asbagh ibn Wakil, arrived in Sicily despite the political difference and rivalry between Abbasid Caliphate and the Umayyad Emirate of Cordoba, the latter sent military assistance for Aghlabids to conquer Sicily although the Aghlabids was clearly serving under Abbasid interest. Ibn Kathir recorded that 300 ships of Umayyad and Aghlabids joint forces were present. Theodotus did not confront them, hoping that they would depart after raiding, but the beleaguered garrison at Mineo managed to get into contact with the raiders and proposed joint action. The Andalusians agreed, provided that Asbagh was recognized as the overall commander, and together with fresh troops from Ifriqiya marched on Mineo. Unable to confront them, Theodotus retreated to Enna and the siege of Mineo was broken (July or August 830). The combined Ifriqiyan and Andalusian army then torched Mineo and laid siege to another town, possibly Calloniana (modern Barrafranca). However, once again a plague broke out in their camp, killing Asbagh and many others. The town fell later, in autumn, but the Arabs' numbers were so depleted that they had to abandon it and retreat west. Theodotus launched a pursuit and inflicted heavy casualties, so that most of the Andalusians departed the island. However, Theodotus too was killed at this time, possibly in one of these skirmishes.\n\nMeanwhile, the Ifriqiyans of Mazara, together with some of the Andalusians, had advanced across the island and laid siege to Palermo. The city held out for a year until September 831, when its commander, the \"spatharios\" Symeon, surrendered it in exchange for safe departure for the city's senior officials and possibly the garrison as well. The city suffered greatly during the siege; the Arab historian Ibn al-Athir, records with exaggeration that the city's population fell from 70,000 to 3,000, who were taken as slaves. The city's bishop, Luke, managed to escape and reach Constantinople, where he informed Emperor Theophilos of the disaster. The fall of Palermo marks a decisive step in the Muslim conquest of Sicily: the Muslims gained not only an important military base, but possession of the city—henceforth known simply as \"al-Madina\" (\"the City\")—allowed them to consolidate their control over the western portion of the island, which was established as a regular Aghlabid province. Thus, in March 832, the first Aghlabid governor (\"wali\"), Abu Fihr Muhammad ibn Abdallah, arrived in Palermo. Abu Fihr was a capable man, and was able to assuage the often violent dissensions between Ifriqiyans and Andalusians.\n\nThe western third of Sicily fell relatively quickly into Muslim hands, but conquest of the eastern portion of the island was a protracted and haphazard affair. There is little evidence of large-scale campaigns or pitched battles, and warfare was dominated by repeated Arab attacks on Byzantine citadels, coupled with raids (\"sa'ifa\") in the surrounding countryside, aimed at looting or the extraction of tribute and prisoners from the threatened localities. In this type of warfare, the south-eastern third of the island (Val di Noto) suffered comparatively more than the more mountainous and inaccessible north-eastern portion.\n\nNo operations are reported in Sicily for the first two years after the fall of Palermo. The Muslims were probably preoccupied with organizing their new province, while the Byzantines were too weak to react, and could not expect any reinforcements: the Empire faced mounting pressure in the East, where the Abbasid Caliph al-Ma'mun launched repeated invasions of the Byzantine borderlands and threatened to march on Constantinople itself until his sudden death in August 833.\n\nThe struggle during the next few years focused on Enna, which became the main Byzantine stronghold in central Sicily. In early 834, Abu Fihr campaigned against Enna, defeated its garrison in the field and forced it to withdraw within the town's fortifications. In spring, the garrison sallied forth, but was again defeated and driven back. In 835, Abu Fihr again raided central Sicily, and defeated the army under a Byzantine \"patrikios\" (probably the island's \"strategos\") that opposed him, taking the Byzantine commander's wife and son captive in the process. After his success, Abu Fihr sent Muhammad ibn Salim in a raid against the eastern parts of the island, which reached as far as Taormina. However, dissensions broke out once again among the Muslims: Abu Fihr was murdered, and his killers found refuge among the Byzantines.\n\nThe Aghlabids replaced Abu Fihr with al-Fadl ibn Yaqub, who displayed great energy: immediately after his arrival he led a raid against the environs of Syracuse, and then another into central Sicily, around Enna. The Byzantine \"strategos\" marched out to meet them, but the Muslims withdrew to a mountainous and thickly forested area where the Byzantines could not pursue. After waiting in vain for the Muslims to accept battle, the \"strategos\" turned his army back, but was ambushed by the Muslims who put his men to flight. The Muslims seized most of the Byzantines' arms, equipment and animals, and almost managed to capture the severely wounded \"strategos\" himself. Despite his success, Ibn Yaqub was replaced in September by a new governor, the Aghlabid prince Abu'l-Aghlab Ibrahim ibn Abdallah ibn al-Aghlab, a first cousin of the emir Ziyadat Allah. At the same time, the long-awaited Byzantine reinforcements arrived. The Byzantine fleet contested the passage of Abu'l-Aghlab's small fleet, which lost ships both to the Byzantine attack and to storms; the Byzantines however could not prevent it from reaching Palermo, and were driven off by a squadron from the city under Muhammad ibn al-Sindi. Abu'l-Aghlab avenged himself by launching naval raids against Pantelleria and other localities, beheading the Christians taken prisoner. At the same time, a Muslim cavalry raid reached the eastern parts of the island around Mount Etna, burning the villages and crops and taking captives.\n\nIn 836, Abu'l-Aghlab launched fresh attacks. A Muslim force seized the fortress known in Arabic as Qastaliasali (probably Castelluccio on the island's northern coast), but were driven away by a Byzantine counter-attack. The Muslim fleet, under al-Fadl ibn Yaqub, raided the Aeolian Islands and seized a number of forts on the northern coast of Sicily, most notably Tyndaris. In the meantime, another cavalry raid was dispatched against the region of Etna and was so successful that the price for Byzantine captives plummeted.\n\nIn 837, a Muslim army under Abd al-Salam ibn Abd al-Wahhab attacked Enna, but was defeated by the Byzantines, and Abd al-Salam himself was taken prisoner. The Muslims responded by reinforcing their position around Enna, which they placed under siege. During the following winter, one of the besiegers discovered an unguarded path leading to the town, allowing the Muslims to take the entire lower town. The Byzantines however managed to maintain control of the citadel, and after negotiations secured a Muslim withdrawal in exchange for a large ransom.\n\nTheophilos now undertook a serious effort to relieve Sicily: he assembled a large army and placed it under the command of his son-in-law, the \"Caesar\" Alexios Mousele. Mousele arrived in Sicily in spring 838, in time to relieve the fortress of Cefalù from a Muslim attack. Mousele scored a number of successes against Muslim raiding parties but, back in Constantinople, his enemies launched accusations of contacts with the Arabs and designs on the throne. Furthermore, the death of his infant wife, Maria, cut his link to Theophilos, and the Emperor sent the archbishop of Syracuse, Theodore Krithinos, to recall the \"Caesar\" to Constantinople in 839.\n\nOn 11 June 838 the emir Ziyadat Allah had died, and was succeeded by his brother, Abu Iqal ibn al-Aghlab. The new emir sent fresh troops to Sicily, where the Muslims regained the upper hand after Mousele's departure: in 839–840, the Muslims captured the fortresses of Corleone, Platani, Caltabellotta, and possibly also Marineo, Geraci and other forts, and in 841, they raided from Enna as far as Grotte.\n\nIn the same period, the Sicilian Muslims also established footholds in the Italian mainland. The Muslims were asked to assist the beleaguered Duchy of Naples against Sicard of Benevento in 839, but then they sacked Brindisi and, following Sicard's murder and the outbreak of civil war in the Principality of Benevento, seized Tarentum in 840 and Bari in 847, which they made their bases. Until well into the 880s, the Muslims would launch destructive raids along the coasts of Italy and into the Adriatic Sea from their bases on the Italian mainland — most notably from the Emirate of Bari, until its destruction in 871.\n\nIn late 842 or 843, with Neapolitan support, the Muslims conquered Messina. In 845, the fortress of Modica also fell, while the Byzantines, now at peace with the Abbasid Caliphate, received reinforcements from the eastern theme of Charsianon. The two armies met near Butera, where the Byzantines suffered a crushing defeat, losing about 10,000 men. In the wake of this disaster, the Byzantine position deteriorated rapidly: al-Fadl ibn Ja'far took Leontini by a ruse in 846, and the fortress of Ragusa followed in 848, when its garrison was forced by severe famine to surrender it to the Muslims, who razed it to the ground. At about the same time (late 847 or 848), an attempt by the Byzantine fleet to land troops near Palermo failed, and subsequently the Byzantines lost seven out of their ten ships in a storm.\n\nIn 851, the capable Muslim governor and general Abu'l-Aghlab Ibrahim died, and the local Muslims elected Abu'l-Aghlab al-Abbas ibn al-Fadl, the victor of Butera, as his successor. Without waiting for confirmation of his appointment from Ifriqiya, the new governor attacked and captured the northern fortress of Caltavuturo, and then turned south towards Enna, whose Byzantine commander refused to meet him in the field. Abbas continued his raid, and in 852–853 he devastated the Val di Noto. Butera was besieged for five or six months, until its inhabitants came to terms and secured his withdrawal by delivering 5,000–6,000 prisoners. Little details are known about the events of the next four years, but the picture painted by the sources is one of unopposed Muslim raids across the remaining Byzantine territories. Abbas captured several fortresses, including Cefalù in 857, whose population was allowed safe departure and which was then razed. Gagliano was also besieged, but not taken. In summer 858, the two sides were engaged in naval combat, probably off Apulia; Abbas' brother Ali managed to defeat the Byzantine fleet of 40 ships in the first engagement, but was in turn defeated and forced to flee in the second.\n\nThen, in January 859, the Muslims scored a major success through the capture, with the aid of a Byzantine prisoner, of hitherto impregnable Enna. As Metcalfe remarks, the capture of the fortress was of major importance, for Enna was the key to Muslim expansion in eastern Sicily: \"without bringing it under their control, the Muslims were not able to capture and consolidate towns further to the eastwithout the risk of losing their gains in counteroffensives. ... Its fall, followed by its comprehensive sacking and the slaughter of its defenders on 24 January 859 was thus, in military terms, the crowning achievement of the early Aghlabids in Sicily since the fall of Palermo\".\n\nThe fall of Enna reduced the Byzantines to the eastern coastal strip between Syracuse and Taormina, and forced the emperor to send a large army and a fleet of reportedly 300 ships, under Constantine Kontomytes, which arrived at Syracuse in autumn 859. Soon after, the Byzantine navy was defeated a major battle with the Muslims, in which the Byzantines lost a third of their fleet. Nevertheless, the arrival of a large Byzantine army induced several settlements, which had previously submitted to the Muslims, to rise in revolt. Abbas soon suppressed these uprisings, and marched against Kontomytes. The two armies met near Cefalù, and in the ensuing battle, the Byzantines were heavily defeated and retired to Syracuse, while Abbas strengthened his position by refortifying and colonizing Enna.\n\nAbbas died in autumn 861, after another raid into Byzantine territory, and was buried at Caltagirone; the Byzantines later exhumed and burned his corpse. As his replacement, the Sicilian Muslims chose his uncle Ahmad ibn Ya'qub. His tenure was short, as in February 862 he was deposed in favour of Abdallah, son of Abbas. Abdallah's general Rabah was able to capture a few Byzantine fortresses, despite suffering a defeat in battle at first. Abdallah's elevation, however, was not acknowledged by the Aghlabids, and he was replaced, after only five months in office, by Khafaja ibn Sufyan.\n\nIn 863, Khafaja sent his son Muhammad to raid the environs of Syracuse, but he was defeated by the Byzantines and forced to retire. In February/March 864, however, with the aid of a Byzantine renegade, the Muslims captured Noto and Scicli. In 865, Khafaja led in person an expedition against the environs of Enna—which may signify that the Byzantines had retaken it, or that they still held forts in its vicinity—before moving onto Syracuse, but again his son Muhammad was defeated in an ambush, losing 1,000 men.\n\nIn 866, Khafaja marched once more against Syracuse. From there he marched along the coast towards the north. There he met a delegation of the citizens of Taormina, who concluded a treaty with him, but soon broke it. In the same year, the Muslims retook Noto and Ragusa, which the Byzantines had apparently recaptured, or which had simply failed to renew their tribute payments after previous capitulations. Khafaja also captured the fortress called \"al-Giran\" and a few other towns, before an illness forced him to return to Palermo. In the summer of 867, after the illness had passed, Khafaja led his army towards Syracuse and Catania again, raiding their environs.\n\nIn September 867, the Byzantine emperor Michael III was killed and succeeded by Basil I the Macedonian. The new emperor was more energetic than his predecessor, and the relative peace on his eastern frontier allowed him to soon turn his full attention to the west: in 868–869 admiral Niketas Ooryphas was sent to relieve an Arab siege of Ragusa and re-establish imperial authority in Dalmatia, after which he sailed to Italy in an abortive attempt to conclude a alliance through marriage and co-ordinate a joint siege of Bari with the western emperor, Louis II. Another fleet was dispatched to Sicily in spring 868, but the Byzantines were heavily defeated by Khafaja in battle, after which the Muslims freely raided the environs of Syracuse. After Khafaga's return to Palermo, his son Muhammad launched a raid against mainland Italy, possibly besieging Gaeta.\n\nOn his return to Sicily, in January–February 869, Muhammad led an attempt to capture Taormina through treason, but although a small Muslim detachment gained control of the gates, Muhammad tarried to arrive with the main army and the detachment, fearing capture, abandoned the city. A month later, Khafaja launched an attack on the region of Mount Etna, probably against the town of Tiracia (modern Randazzo), while Muhammad raided around Syracuse. The Byzantines, however, sortied from the city and defeated Muhammad's men, inflicting heavy casualties, forcing Khafaja to turn on Syracuse himself. He reportedly laid siege to the city for a few weeks, before turning back towards Palermo in June. On his march home, however, he was assassinated by a dissatisfied Berber soldier, who then fled to Syracuse. It was a heavy loss for the Sicilian Muslims. The motives for the murder remain unclear: Metcalfe suggests a dispute over the division of spoils between the various sections of the Muslim army, but Alexander Vasiliev suggested the possibility that the Berber soldier was in the Byzantines' pay.\n\nKhafaja was succeeded by his son Muhammad, elected by the Sicilian army and confirmed by the Aghlabid emir. In contrast to his previous energy, Muhammad was a sedentary governor, preferring to remain in his capital rather than campaign in person. His tenure was furthermore cut short when he was assassinated by his court eunuchs on 27 May 871.\n\nNevertheless, his tenure is associated with a major success of long-term significance, the capture of Malta. Of all the islands around Sicily, this was the last to remain in Byzantine hands, and in 869 a fleet under Ahmad ibn Umar ibn Ubaydallah ibn al-Aghlab al-Habashi attacked it. The Byzantines, having received timely reinforcements, resisted successfully at first, but in 870 Muhammad sent a fleet from Sicily to the island, and the capital Melite fell on 29 August 870. The local governor was captured, the town was plundered—Ahmad al-Habashi reportedly took along the local cathedral's marble columns to decorate his palace—and its fortifications razed. The fall of Malta had important ramifications for the defence of what remained of Byzantine Sicily: with Reggio in Calabria and now Malta in their hands, the Muslims completed their encirclement of the island, and could easily interdict any aid sent from the east.\nFrom 872 to 877 there was apparently a period of calm, since the sources are silent on any military operations in Sicily. This was probably chiefly due to internal turmoil in Muslim Sicily, with six governors reported as having taken office during this period, as well as the weakness of the Aghlabid government on the Ifriqiyan metropolis. In Italy, Muslim raids continued, but the Byzantines had a major success in 875 or 876, after the death of Louis II, when they took possession of Bari.\n\nIn 875, the unwarlike and pleasure-loving Aghlabid emir Muhammad II ibn Ahmad (r. 864–875) died, and was succeeded by his more energetic brother, Ibrahim II (r. 875–902). The new Emir of Ifriqiya was determined to finally capture Syracuse. He appointed a new governor for the island, Ja'far ibn Muhammad, and sent a fleet from Ifriqiya to his assistance. Ja'far began his campaign in 877, raiding the Byzantine territories and occupying some outlying forts around Syracuse, before settling down to besiege the city. The Muslims, well supplied with siege weapons, launched incessant attacks on the city's defenders, but Syracuse received scant reinforcements from Constantinople, where the bulk of the imperial fleet was apparently occupied with carrying building materials for a sumptuous new church built by Emperor Basil. During nine months of siege, the Arabs gradually occupied the outer defences, and finally, on 21 May 878, stormed the city. The population was massacred or enslaved, and the city thoroughly looted over two months.\n\nDespite the major success of capturing Syracuse, the Muslim province in Sicily now degenerated into internal strife. Soon after the city's fall, Ja'far ibn Muhammad was murdered by his own slaves, at the instigation of his uncle and his brother, who then usurped the governorship. They were in turn overthrown in September 878, and sent to Ifriqiya where they were executed.\n\nIbrahim II then briefly named his own son as governor, before the appointment of the Sicilian Husayn ibn Rabah. Husayn renewed the campaigns against the remaining Byzantine strongholds in the northeast, especially Taormina, in 879–880, but without success. Indeed, the Byzantines were able to launch a limited counteroffensive in 880, when the admiral Nasar defeated an Aghlabid fleet in a daring night attack in the Ionian Sea, and then proceeded to raid the environs of Palermo, before defeating another Aghlabid fleet at the Battle of Stelai. In 881–882, Taormina was again the target of a determined Muslim attack, but held out, and a Muslim army under Abu Thawr was annihilated by the Byzantines at Caltavuturo, causing a large-scale mobilization of the Sicilian Muslims. Over the next years, the Muslims launched several raids, against Catania, Taormina and \"the king's city\" (possibly Polizzi) in 883, against Rometta and Catania in 884, and again against Catania and Taormina in 885. These expeditions were successful in so far as they yielded sufficient booty or tribute to pay the army, but failed to capture any Byzantine strongholds. The same period, 885–886, also saw a resurgence of Byzantine strength in the Italian mainland, where Nikephoros Phokas the Elder won a string of victories against the Muslims.\n\nIt was in this climate of military failure that the discontent among broad sections of the Sicilian Muslim population, hitherto kept in check by successful raiding, erupted into open rebellion. In the later narrative sources, this conflict between the ruling elite and the lower classes is often simplified to an \"ethnic\" struggle between the (ruling) \"Arabs\" and the (rebel) \"Berbers\". In December 886, the people of Palermo deposed the governor, Sawada ibn Khafaja, and sent him to Ifriqiya. Emir Ibrahim II appointed a new governor, who was able to calm the situation temporarily through successful raids and the victory over a Byzantine fleet off Milazzo in 888, which enabled the Sicilian Muslims to launch destructive raids into Calabria.\n\nIn the next year, Sawada returned, with fresh Ifriqiyan troops, and launched yet another failed attack on Taormina. However, in March 890, another rebellion broke out in Palermo, this time apparently among the Sicilian Arabs, and directed against Sawada's Ifriqiyans. Coupled with a major rebellion in Ifriqiya itself in 894–895, this put an end to Muslim raids against the Byzantines, and resulted in the conclusion of a truce in 895–896. According to its terms, in exchange for peace, over 40 months the Byzantines would gradually release their Muslim prisoners, by turns a group of \"Arabs\" and a group of \"Berbers\", in total some 1,000 men. As Metcalfe remarks, \" not only does this show the extent of Christian military success against the Aghlabids in eastern Sicily, but it may also have been deliberately aimed at exacerbating tensions within the Muslim army by playing off one faction against another in negotiating their staggered release\".\n\nIn the event, a full-scale civil war between \"Arabs\" and \"Berbers\" erupted in 898, prompting the dispatch of Ibrahim II's son Abu'l-Abbas Abdallah, who had previously suppressed the rebellion in Iriqiya, to the island at the head of an army in summer 900. By then, the Muslims' infighting had acquired a regional dimension, with the Palermitans pitted against the Agrigentans. After negotiations between the Ifriqiyans and the rival Sicilian parties failed, Abu'l-Abbas Abdallah marched on Palermo, which he captured on 18 September 900. A great number of the rebels fled the city to the Byzantines in Taormina, with some reaching even Constantinople itself.\n\nThe Byzantines tried to take advantage of the revolt, and began assembling forces at Messina and Reggio, while a fleet was dispatched from Constantinople. Abu'l-Abbas, however, did not tarry and as soon as he had suppressed the rebellion, marched against the Byzantines, ravaging the environs of Taormina and launching an unsuccessful siege of Catania before returning to winter in Palermo. In the next spring, he resumed his attack and assaulted Demona. To disrupt the Byzantine preparations, his forces then crossed over to the mainland. Reggio was captured on 10 July, and was subjected to a savage sack; a vast booty was collected, over 15,000 of its inhabitants were carted off as slaves, and the \"jizya\" imposed on the remainder. On his return to Sicily, Abu'l-Abbas came across a Byzantine fleet that had just arrived from Constantinople and thoroughly defeated it, capturing thirty of its vessels.\n\nIn early 902, Emir Ibrahim II was forced into abdication by his subjects, through the intervention of the Abbasid caliph. Ibrahim exchanged places with Abu'l-Abbas, who was named as his successor: Abu'l-Abbas left Sicily for Ifriqiya, while Ibrahim now resolved to take up the mantle of the Holy War, and accompanied a group of volunteers to Sicily in the summer. In an act that broke the long-standing stalemate on the island, Ibrahim and his followers advanced on Taormina, defeated the Byzantine garrison before its walls and laid siege to it. Left unsupported by the imperial government, the town fell on 1 August 902. Ibrahim then capitalized on his success by sending raiding parties against various strongholds in the vicinity, forcing either their capitulation and destruction or the payment of tribute.\n\nIndefatigable, Ibrahim now crossed over into the mainland, where cities as far as Naples began to prepare to resist his attack. In the end, his advance was stopped at the siege of Cosenza, where Ibrahim died of dysentery on October 24. His grandson stopped the military campaign and returned to Sicily.\n\nAlthough few strongholds in the northeast remained unconquered and in Christian hands, the fall of Taormina marked the effective end of Byzantine Sicily, and the consolidation of Muslim control over the island. However, it did not signal the end of Arab–Byzantine warfare on and around the island.\n\nIn 909, Sicily, like Ifriqiya itself, passed under the control of the Fatimids. The Fatimids (and after the 950s the Kalbid hereditary governors) continued the tradition of \"jihad\", both against the Christian strongholds in the northeast (the Val Demone) and, more prominently, against the Byzantine possessions in southern Italy, punctuated by truces. Taormina itself threw off Muslim control soon after 902, and it was not until 962, possibly in response to the Byzantine reconquest of Crete the previous year, that the Fatimids retook the town, following a 30-week siege. In the next year, the Muslims attacked the last remaining Christian stronghold on the island, Rometta, which prompted an expedition sent by the Byzantine emperor, Nikephoros II Phokas, to recover Sicily. The Byzantines were at first successful, recapturing Messina and other fortresses in the northeast, but were repulsed before Rometta itself, and retreated back to Calabria. In the next year, they tried to resume their offensive, but were annihilated in the \"Battle of the Straits\" (\"waqʿat al-majāz\") off Messina. As a result, a lasting truce was concluded by the two powers in 967.\n\nSicilian raids on Italy continued, and prompted the intervention of the Western Emperor, Otto II in the peninsula in 982, where he was defeated at the Battle of Stilo. It was not until the 1020s that the Byzantines turned their attention to Sicily again, after a period of consolidation of their position in southern Italy under the capable Catepan Basil Boioannes. A large force landed in Messina in 1025, but the expedition was called off when news came of the death of Emperor Basil II. A final effort was made in 1038, when the talented young general George Maniakes was dispatched to Sicily, taking advantage of internal conflicts between the Kalbids and the Zirids. Maniakes quickly recaptured the entire eastern coast, but the conquest was left incomplete when he was recalled to Constantinople by jealous rivals. The Kalbids soon recovered their losses, and Messina, the last Byzantine outpost, fell in 1042.\n\nThe Arabs remained in control of Sicily until the Norman conquest of the island, which was also a prolonged affair, lasting from the first invasion in 1061 to the surrender of Noto in 1091.\n\nThe long Arab–Byzantine struggle left abiding traces on the island's subsequent history: although under Muslim rule, Sicilian culture quickly became Arabicized, the Christian communities in the central and eastern parts largely resisted islamization. The level of Arab influence, as attested through surviving toponyms, also varied across the island depending on the length of resistance and the extent of Arab settlement: there are many Arab-derived names in the western third (the medieval Val di Mazara), are more mixed in the southeastern third (Val di Noto), while Christian identities survived most strongly in the northeastern third of the island (Val Demone), which was the last to fall, where Christian refugees from other parts of Sicily had assembled, and which furthermore remained in contact with Byzantine southern Italy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2035421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2035421", "title": "One-Design", "text": "One-Design\n\nOne-Design is a racing method which may be adopted in sports which use complex equipment, whereby all vehicles, gliders or boats have identical or very similar designs or models. In motor racing, it is also known as Spec series, and one-make racing.\n\nAs manufacturing technologies became more efficient and effective over the course of the 20th century, racers in a number of sports realized that there was an important need to equalize the design of the equipment that they were competing in. One-Design racing is the ultimate result of this. Most often, the members of a One-Design class are near identical as a direct consequence of all deriving from the same production line. Sometimes they are checked or measured at stages in their use to guarantee continuing conformity to the standard design. The important factors being measured in One-Design racing help to equalize the vehicles and put more emphasis on the skill of the competitors.\n\nOne-Design is utilized in a variety of racing sports.\n\nIt is heavily used in sailboat racing. All competitors in a One-Design race are judged simply on a 'first to the finish' basis using a single start time. Other approaches to racing involve either a handicapping process (adjusting each competitor's elapsed time over the course by a factor based on the handicap figure for their boat), or restricting participants to using boats of some recognised class or type, or allowing only boats which conform to some formula or other specification. In the United States, the One-Design Class Council creates, monitors, and enforces the rules that define what classes of sailboats are One-Design boats.\n\nIt can additionally refer to airplanes or motor vehicles, such as IndyCars, where teams are required to meet certain specifications such as vehicle weight, engine displacement, weight, fuel capacity, and a variety of other factors are measured and regulated, or classes limited to a single make, such as the Yamaha RD Cup.\n\nIn motorsport, this term is commonly known as one-make racing and this term is predominantly given to series for production based cars such as the Porsche Supercup.\n\nThere are two primary methods of competition in sailboat racing: One-Design and handicap (see: Portsmouth Yardstick, PHRF and LYS (Leading Yard Stick)). One-design refers to a racing class that consists of just one model or design of sailboat. In one-design racing, the first boat to finish wins the race. This is contrasted with handicap racing, where time is added or subtracted from the finishing times based on design factors and mathematical formulas to determine the winner.\n\nIn between One-Design and handicap racing, a number of other approaches exist. One-Design can be contrasted with a development class, the classic example being the America's Cup 12-metre class, or to the Box Rule used, for example, in the TP 52 class.\n\nA further category, the formula based class setup, is sometimes confused with one-design. The Mini Transat 6.50, the Volvo Open 70 monohull, the large ORMA trimaran, and the Formula 18 racing beach catamaran are the exponents of the formula approach. Class-legal boats race each other without any handicap calculations in both setups. However, under one-design the boats are virtually identical except in details, while the Formula setup allows the boats to differ much more in design while keeping a few important specifications the same. As a result, the identifier \"One-Design\" has been used more and more exclusively to denote a class that races only identical boats.\n\nHaving a rigid one-design specification keeps design experimentation to a minimum and reduces cost of ownership. The popularity of one-design increased in the 1970s with the introduction of laminate construction using fibre-reinforced plastic (FRP) and mold building technology. This process allowed the mass production of identical hulls of virtually any size at a lower price.\n\nThe one-design design idea was created by Thomas Middleton of the Shankill Corinthian Club located south of Dublin, Ireland in 1887. He proposed a class of double ended open dinghies of simple clincher construction in pine with a lifting boiler plate capable of being lifted. The boat was called The Water Wag. The idea was quickly adopted by sailors in Ireland, England, India and South America. The Water Wag Club still thrives in Dun Laoghaire, Co. Dublin.\nThe Solent One Design Class was one of the earliest O.D. classes formed after discussions took place in 1893 and subsequent years. It quickly became popular, and was patronised by some of the most energetic and best known yacht owners in the Solent, Portsmouth and Southampton waters including Sir Philip Hunloke, the King's yachtmaster. Formed under the auspices of the Solent Sailing Club, the class was adopted by the Royal Yacht Squadron and the Island Sailing Club in 1895. The dimensions of the boats were length overall, 33 ft 3 in; Waterline length, 25 ft; Beam, 7 ft 9 in; Draft, 5 ft; Sail area, 750 sq ft.; Displacement, 5 tons with 2 tons 13 cwt. of lead in the keel. Cutter rig with 6 ft bowsprit. Designed by H.W. White, ten were built in 1895/6 by Messrs. White Brothers of Itchen Ferry, Southampton and another twelve were built in the following year. The class enjoyed ten years of keen racing but the Metre Rule, which was introduced in 1907 effectively killed the class. The only boat still afloat is Rosenn, formally Eilun, sail number 6. Now, fully restored, she has been identified as meriting inclusion in the National Register of Historic Vessels of the United Kingdom. She is kept in Lymington where she is still racing and winning on the Solent.\n\nAs a general rule, the tolerances are strictest in smaller boats like dinghy classes and small keelboats. In some cases the tolerances are specified in a confidential Building Specification and often everything is designed and produced at the same factory or a very few factories. Examples are the Laser, Melges 24, and several small keelboats designed by Nathanael Greene Herreshoff, such as the 12½. In others the specification is published but the boats may only be produced by licensed manufacturers with usually only one builder in any country or region. Examples are the Olympic Finn and 470 but in both these classes a single manufacturer has succeeded in building faster boats than all other manufacturers. In yet others, for example the Optimist anyone may manufacture but tight controls of measurement result in strict one-design.\n\nIn medium- to large-sized boat classes, One-Design would refer to conformance to a standard specification, with the possibility of alterations being allowed as long as they remained within certain tolerances. Examples of this are the Dragon, J/24, Santana 20, Tartan 10, Etchells, J105, Schock 35, C&C Mega 30 One Design and the Farr 40. After the hull length overall (LOA) exceeds , people generally refer to the boat as an offshore one-design boat or yacht.\n\nIn other classes, the one-design class may have organized around an existing fleet of similar boats that traditionally existed together often for commercial purposes such as sailing canoes, dhows, and skipjacks, or boats that developed a common hull form over the years (such as A-Scows).\n\nIn contrast to 'one-design', other sailboats race under a variety of handicapping rules and formulas developed to allow different type boats to compete against one another. Formula rules include the Square Metre Rule, the Ton class, the Universal Rule, and the Metre Rule. Handicap rules include Portsmouth Yardstick, PHRF, IOR, IMS, IRC, Americap and LYS.\n\nOne-make racing (known as spec racing in North America) is a racing category in which all competitors race in identical or very similar vehicles from the same manufacturer, often using the same model. Typically, this means the same chassis, tyres and engine are used by all drivers. The idea behind one-make racing is that success will be based more on driver skill and car setup instead of engineering skill and budget. One-make series are popular at an amateur level as they are affordable, due to the use of a common engine and chassis.\n\nExamples of one-make racing from around the world include the Porsche Carrera Cup and Supercup, Radical European Masters, Power Maxed (formerly John Cooper Works) Mini Challenge and Commodore Cup. There are also various formula categories that utilize one-make racing, such as GP2 in Europe, the Indy Racing League in America, Super Formula in Japan, Formula Renault, Formula E, Formula Mazda and the Formula Car Challenge.\n\nThere have been several attempts to bring the advantages of one-design to the sport of competitive glider racing. The most successful of these has been the Schweizer 1–26 class with 700 aircraft completed and flown between 1954–1981.\n\nSchweizer Aircraft principal Paul A Schweizer was a proponent of the One-Design concept. He intended the company's 1–26 to be the aircraft to establish a one-design class in the United States. He wrote:\n\n\"The true measure of pilot ability and experience is usually shown by his final standing in a contest. What could be more indicative of this when pilots are flying identical sailplanes with identical performance. One-design competition is the sure test of soaring skill.\"\n\nOther one-design gliders have included those made in Russia by Aviastroitel, in Poland by Warsztaty Szybowcowe Orlik, and Germany, where for example the DFS Olympia Meise was planned for the 1940 Olympic championships.\n\n"}
{"id": "44216765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44216765", "title": "Pavlovo-Posadskiye izvestiya", "text": "Pavlovo-Posadskiye izvestiya\n\nPavlovo-Posadskiye izvestiya () is a regional weekly newspaper based in Pavlovsky Posad. The newspaper is considered to be one of the oldest in the region and was founded in July 1919.\nSince March 2005 the newspaper has been issued by the state institution of Moscow Oblast, The News Agency Of Pavlovsky Posad District. \nThe goal of the agency is to inform the population about the activities of public authorities of Moscow Oblast and local government municipalities, providing the society with authentic and trustful information in various spheres of life.\nThe newspaper has an official website that posts information about interesting events, topics, and the latest news. Chief Editor - Krasova Elena.\n\nThe original name of the newspaper at its founding was Pavlovskiye Izvestiya. Since this time the name has been changed on several occasions (Udarnik, 1934, Leninskaya Iskra, 1950s, Znamya Lenina, 1961), until in 1999 it became officially known as Pavlovo-Posadskiye izvestiya.\n\nIn 2005 the editorial office was reorganized and transformed into the state institution of Moscow Oblast, The News Agency Of Pavlovsky Posad District.\nIn 2014 the newspaper celebrated its 95th anniversary. On July 31 of this year, a special evening dedicated to the anniversary was held in the House of Shirokov exhibition hall. In attendance were journalists, correspondents, and previous editors of Pavlovo-Posadskiye izvestiya. The editorial office of the newspaper was presented with a letter of gratitude from the head of the District, Oleg Solovikov.\n"}
{"id": "8440244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8440244", "title": "Piaf (play)", "text": "Piaf (play)\n\nPiaf is a play by Pam Gems that focuses on the life and career of French chanteuse Edith Piaf. The biographical drama with music portrays the singer as a self-destructive, promiscuous alcoholic and junkie who, in one controversial scene, urinates in public. \n\nThe original production starred Jane Lapotaire in the title role, and included Ian Charleson as Pierre. It premiered in 1978 at Royal Shakespeare Company's The Other Place in Stratford-upon-Avon, after which it moved to the Donmar Warehouse in London, the Aldwych Theatre, the Piccadilly Theatre, and then Wyndham's Theatre, before going to the United States. \n\nIn the U.S. the play began in Philadelphia. After six previews the show opened on Broadway at the Plymouth Theatre on February 6, 1981 with its original star, Jane Lapotaire. It ran for 165 performances, and Lapotaire won the 1981 Tony Award.\n\nThe play was performed in Argentina from 1983-86 with Virginia Lago in the role of Piaf. Lago won the Premio Estrella de Mar award in 1984 for Best Actress and in 1984 the Prensario Award for Best Actress. \n\nThe play was also performed in Brasil in 1983 with Bibi Ferreira in the role of Piaf. Bibi won several awards in 1984 and ran the show for more than 10 years. Nowadays, She sings Piaf in her concerts around the world - including The Lincoln Center - NYC. \n\nA London revival occurred in 1993/94 with Elaine Paige in the role of Piaf. In 1994 the play won the Gold Badge of Merit Award from BASCA. In 1994 Paige gained a nomination for the Olivier Award for Best Actress in a Musical.\n\nThe play was performed in Uruguay from 1994 to 1995 with Laura Canoura in the role of Piaf. In 1995 she won the Iris de Plata Award.\n\nCaroline O'Connor starred in the play in Melbourne and Sydney, Australia in 2000 and 2001, gaining three Australian theater awards.\n\nA second revival from 2008 to 2010 had Elena Roger in the title role. In 2009 she won the Laurence Olivier Award for Best Actress in a Musical. This began at The Donmar, before transferring to the Vaudeville Theatre on the Strand. Roger went on to recreate this role in Spain and her native Argentina.\n\nA new production opened at Curve, Leicester in 2013 starring Frances Ruffelle in the lead role. Madalena Alberto was her alternate.\n\n\nIn his review in the \"New York Times\", Frank Rich observed, \"Miss Lapotaire's performance burns with such heartstopping intensity that one never questions her right to stand in for the \"little sparrow,\" who died at age 47 in 1963; one embraces her instantly and totally. While it is far more difficult to embrace Mrs. Gems's rather frail play, I guess we can't have everything. Let's be thankful for Miss Lapotaire . . . \"Piaf\" often obeys the dramatic cliches of rags-to-riches-to-rags showbiz sagas. Like an old movie biography, Mrs. Gems's play unfolds in snippets in which minor characters . . . whip by to deliver information . . . or to act out, in absurd shorthand, famous events in the subject's life . . . Instead of raising substantive issues about Piaf, the evening's cartoonish archetypes call the playwright's craft into question . . . These sketchy people just grease the narrative skids and kill too much time. Singly, they may be innocuous, but collectively they become a dead weight around the play's neck . . . Mrs. Gems also relies on that tired device of following most of Piaf's heartbreaks with songs that comment directly on the action. This might work if the songs were Piaf's best, but the ones here are generally lesser-known numbers that seem intended to minimize invidious comparisons between Miss Lapotaire's voice and her character's.\"\n\nJane Lapotaire won the Tony Award for Best Performance by a Leading Actress in a Play. Zoë Wanamaker was nominated for the Tony Award for Best Performance by a Featured Actress in a Play and the Drama Desk Award for Outstanding Featured Actress in a Play. In 1984 Virginia Lago won the Premio Estrella de Mar for Best Actress and in 1984 Prensario Award for Best Actress. In 1994 Elaine Page won the Gold Badge of Merit Award from BASCA and in 1994 a nomination for the Olivier Award - Best Actress in a Musical. In 1995 Laura Canoura won the Iris de Plata Award. In 2009 Elena Roger won the Laurence Olivier Award for Best Actress in a Musical.\n\n"}
{"id": "55301694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55301694", "title": "Queen of Hearts World Tour", "text": "Queen of Hearts World Tour\n\nThe Queen of Hearts World Tour is the third concert tour by Chinese singer G.E.M., in support of her fourth studio album, \"Heartbeat\" (2015). The tour embarked on April 1, 2017 in Guangzhou, China. \n"}
{"id": "12581159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12581159", "title": "Quick Chek New Jersey Festival of Ballooning", "text": "Quick Chek New Jersey Festival of Ballooning\n\nThe Quick Chek New Jersey Festival of Ballooning has been held annually at the Solberg Airport in Readington Township, New Jersey since 1983. Its lead sponsor is QuickChek, a New Jersey-based chain of convenience stores. In 2012, the festival hosted around 125 special shape and sport hot air balloons. It also had music concerts, crafters and vendors, food, carnival rides and fireworks, which attracted more than 175,000 people. It had more than fifty corporate partners.\n\nIn 1983, Bill Lewis, working with USA Today, brought approximately ten hot air balloons to the Union 76 Truck Stop on Interstate 78 in New Jersey for the inaugural event. After two years they moved the festival to its current site at Solberg Airport where it grew to 40-50 balloons and 30,000-40,000 attendees. In 1993, Howard Freeman and John Korff acquired the New Jersey Festival of Ballooning and signed a long term deal with Solberg Airport. That same year they secured a long term sponsorship agreement with QuickChek. In time, the festival has become the largest event in New Jersey and the largest summertime balloon festival in North America.\nIn 2000, to differentiate the festival from other balloon festivals, major concerts were added to the festival. The first concert presented the legendary band, The Beach Boys. Each subsequent festival included three major concerts. Headliners have included The Doobie Brothers, Hall & Oates, Styx, Foreigner, America, Jonas Brothers and KC & the Sunshine Band.\nA portion of all proceeds from the festival are donated to the Children's Miracle Network, which funds three pediatric hospitals in New Jersey. \n\nSince 2004, the festival has hired a virgin to perform a ritual to ensure good weather for the festival. Howard Freeman, one of the organizers, claims the ritual comes from Singapore. It involves having a virgin drive a golf cart to each of the four corners of the festival site. At each corner she picks up blades of grass, mumbles random words, penetrates whole onions and peppers with knives, then jams the knives with the produce into the ground.\n\nThe 2007 virgin, Victoria Brumfield (born 1979), said it is a mixture of \"fun and embarrassment\" and that \"if it does rain, my virtue is not to blame. I'm waiting until I'm married and no one has asked yet.\" She is a devout Mormon.\n\n"}
{"id": "22223876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22223876", "title": "Rare disasters", "text": "Rare disasters\n\nA rare disaster is an economic collapse that is infrequent and large in magnitude, having a negative effect on an economy. Rare disasters are important because they provide an explanation of the equity premium puzzle, the behavior of interest rates, and other economic phenomena.\n\nThe parameters for a rare disaster are a substantial drop in GDP and at least a 10% decrease in consumption. Examples include financial disasters: the Great Depression and the 1997 Asian financial crisis; wars: World War I, World War II, and regional conflicts; epidemics: influenza outbreaks and the Asian Flu; weather events; and earthquakes and tsunamis; however, any event that has a substantial impact on GDP and consumption could be considered a rare disaster.\n\nThe idea was first proposed by Rietz in 1988, as a way to explain the equity premium puzzle. Since then, other economists have added to and strengthened the idea with evidence, but many economists are still skeptical of the theory.\n\nThe model set forth by Barro is based upon the Lucas's fruit tree model of asset pricing with exogenous, stochastic production. The economy is closed, the number of trees is fixed, output equals consumption ( ) and there is no investment or depreciation. As ( ) is the output of all the trees in the economy and ( formula_1 ) is the price of the periods fruit (the equity claim). The equation below shows the gross return on the fruit tree in one period.\n\nIn order to model rare disasters, Barro introduces the equation below, which is a stochastic process for aggregate output growth. In the model, there are three types of economic shocks:\n\na.) Normal iid shocks<br>\nb.) Type (formula_3) disasters which involve sharp contractions in output, but no default on debt.<br>\nc.) Type (formula_4) disasters which involve sharp contractions in output and at least a partial default on debt.\n\nThe type ω (formula_6) models low probability disasters and (formula_7) is a random iid variable. They are assumed to be independent so they are interchangeable in the equation. Then from the above equation, the magnitude of the contraction from (formula_6) is determined by the following equation.\n\nIn this equation, p is the probability per unit of time that a disaster will occur in each period. If the disaster occurs, b is the factor by which consumption will shrink. The model requires a p that is small and a b that large to correctly model rare disasters. In Barro's analysis, d is also used to deal with the problem of the partial default on bonds.\n\nSince Rietz and Barro, the rare disaster framework can be used to explain many events in finance and economics.\n\nMuch of the equity premium puzzle can be explained by the rare disaster scenarios proposed by Barro and Rietz. The basic reasoning is that if people are aware that rare disasters (i.e. the Great Depression or World War I and World War II) may occur, but the disaster never occurs during their lives, then the equity premium will appear high.\n\nBarro and subsequent economists have provided historical evidence to support this claim. Using this evidence, Barro shows that rare disasters occur frequently and in large magnitude, in economies around the world from a period from the mid-19th century to the present day.\n\nFurther, the evidence shows that in the long run the risk premium is around 5.0% in most countries. However, if when looking at specific periods of time this premium may be higher or lower. For example, if a data set of the period of the Great Depression is observed, then the equity premium will be about 0.4%, because the Great Depression was a rare disaster.\n\nThe risk-free interest rate (the interest received on fixed income, like bonds) may also be explained by rare disasters. Using data in the United States, the rare disaster model shows that the risk-free rate falls by a large margin (from 0.127 to 0.035) when a rare disaster with the probability of 0.017 is introduced into the data set.\n\nFurthermore, Barro defends the criticisms about the behavior of the risk free rate raised by Mehra with respect to the Great Depression and events such as dropping the Atom Bomb in World War II. He reasons that two effects go into people's expectation of rare disasters-the probability of a rare disaster and the probability of default. In an event that has the possibility of nuclear war (like the Cuban Missile Crisis or World War II), the probability of a disaster would rise and therefore, decrease interest rates. However, the probability of government default on bonds also increases, because of the possible destruction of countries, which raises the rate on bonds. These to forces counteract and lead to ambiguity. As shown left with the risk free rate before and falling after the Great Depression, then falling initially during World War II and then rising afterward.\n\nEdward C. Prescott and Rajnish Mehra first proposed the Equity Premium Puzzle in 1985. In 1988, Rietz suggested that large and infrequent economic shocks could explain the equity premium (the premium of securities over fixed income assets). However, it was not deemed feasible at the time, because it seemed that such events were too rare and could not occur in reality. The theory was forgotten until 2005, when Robert Barro provided evidence of nations from around the world from the 19th and 20th century, showing that these events were possible and have happened. Since his papers, others have submitted different ideas regarding rare disasters' impact on other economic phenomenon. However, many economists remain skeptical of how much rare disasters really explain the equity premium and Mehra still expresses doubt as to the validity of the theory.\n\nRajnish Mehra was skeptical of Reitz's claim that rare disasters explain the equity premium and real interest rate behavior, because the rare disaster that Rietz had specified had never occurred in the U.S. Rietz suggested 25 to 97% drops, but this has never happened in the United States. Even if this were true, there are several other flaws regarding his model, parameters, and supporting evidence. The model Rietz presented did not compensate for a partial default on bond holders do due rapid inflation. Further, the risk aversion in parameter was used inconsistently in his analysis. For example, a value of 10 was used to show a 25% drop in consumption, but a value of 1 is used to explain stock returns and consumption. Finally, more historical evidence was said to have been needed to give the theory proper support. For example, the perceived probability of a rare disaster should have been low before the atomic bomb was dropped and must have been higher before the Cuban Missile Crisis than after. Therefore, real interest rates should have correlated with these events, but they did not. Mehra concluded that Rietz's scenario was far too extreme to resolve the puzzle.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "161354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=161354", "title": "Shahrbaraz", "text": "Shahrbaraz\n\nShahrbaraz or Shahrvaraz (died 9 June 630) was king of the Sasanian Empire from 27 April 630 to 9 June 630. He usurped the throne from Ardashir III, and was killed by Sasanian nobles after forty days. Before usurping the Sasanian throne he was a general (\"spahbed\") under Khosrow II (590–628). He is furthermore noted for his important role during the climactic Byzantine–Sasanian War of 602–628, and the events that followed afterwards. His name Shahrbaraz is actually an honorific title, and means \"the Boar of the Empire\", attesting to his dexterity in military command and his warlike personality, as the boar was the animal associated with the Zoroastrian Izad Vahram, the epitome of victory.\n\n\"Shahrwarāz\" (Inscriptional Pahlavi: ) is a Middle Persian word, with \"shahr\" meaning \"land, country\" and \"warāz\" meaning \"boar\", which is the epitome of victory in Persian mythology. This word is rendered as \"Shahrbarāz\" () in New Persian.\n\nIn Armenian sources, he is often referred by the name \"Khoream\" (that is, \"Farrukhān\") and the title \"Razmyozan\" (also spelled \"Razmiozan\", \"Erazmiozan\", \"Razmayuzan\"). The title is also mentioned as \"Rasmiozdan\", \"Rasmiozan\" (Georgian), \"rsmysa\" (, reading uncertain), \"Rōmēzān\", \"Rūmīzān\", \"Rumbūzān\" (al-Tabari, \"Tarikh\").\n\nShahrbaraz belonged to the House of Mihran, one of the Seven Parthian clans; he was the son of a certain Ardashir. During Shahrbaraz's later life, he joined the Sasanian army, where he rose to high offices, and was appointed as \"spahbed\" of Nēmrōz. He was married to the sister of the Sasanian king Khosrow II, Mirhran, with whom Shahrbaraz had one boy named Shapur-i Shahrvaraz. Shahrbaraz also had another son named Niketas the Persian, who may be from the same woman or from another.\n\nShahrbaraz is first mentioned when Khosrow II started the last and most devastating of the Byzantine–Sasanian wars, which was going to last 26 years. Khosrow II, along with Shahrbaraz and his other best generals, conquered Dara and Edessa in 604, and in the north, the Byzantines were driven back to the old, pre-591 frontier before Khosrow II gave them most of Sasanian Armenia, parts of Mesopotamia and western half of the Kingdom of Iberia. After reconquering lost territory, Khosrow II withdrew from the battlefield and handed military operations to his best generals. Shahrbaraz was one of them. In 610, Heraclius, an Armenian of probable Arsacid descent, revolted against the Byzantine Emperor Phocas and killed him, crowning himself as Emperor of the Byzantine Empire. After becoming Byzantine Emperor, he prepared a major counter-attack against the Sasanians outside Antioch in 613, but was decisively defeated by Shahrbaraz, who inflicted heavy losses on the Byzantine army and then captured the city, giving the Sasanians naval access to the Mediterranean sea.\n\nAfter the Byzantine defeat outside Antioch, Heraclius and his brother Theodore, along with General Nicetas, combined their armies in Syria, but were defeated by Shahrbaraz and his forces who besieged Damascus and captured it along with a large number of Byzantine troops as prisoners. Furthermore, Shahrbaraz also defeated a Byzantine army near Adhri'at, which is mentioned in the Quran.\nOne of most important events during his career was when he led the Sasanian army towards Palaestina, and after a bloody siege captured Jerusalem, a city sacred to the Christians. After his conquest of Jerusalem the Holy Cross was carried away in triumph. In 618, Shahrbaraz was ordered by Khosrow II to invade Egypt, and by 619, Alexandria, the capital of Byzantine Egypt, was in Sasanian hands.\n\nAfter the fall of Alexandria, Shahrbaraz and his forces extended Sasanian rule southwards along the Nile. By 621, the province was securely in Sasanian hands, and a certain Sahralanyozan was appointed as its governor. In 622, Heraclius counter-attacked against the Sasanian Empire in Anatolia. Shahrbaraz was sent over there to deal with him, but was eventually defeated by him.\n\nAfter Heraclius' victory, he marched towards Caucasian Albania and wintered there. Shahrbaraz, along with Shahin and Shahraplakan were later sent by the orders of Khosrow II to trap the forces of Heraclius. Shahin managed to rout the Byzantine army. Due to jealousy between the Sasanian commanders, Shahrbaraz hurried with his army to take part in the glory of the victory. Heraclius met them at Tigranakert and routed the forces of Shahraplakan and Shahin one after the other. After this victory, Heraclius crossed the Araxes and camped in the plains on the other side. Shahin, with the remnants of both his and Shahraplakan's armies joined Shahrbaraz in the pursuit of Heraclius, but marshes slowed them down. At Aliovit, Shahrbaraz split his forces, sending some 6,000 troops to ambush Heraclius while the remainder of the troops stayed at Aliovit. Heraclius launched a surprise night attack on the Sasanian main camp in February 625, destroying it. Shahrbaraz only barely escaped, naked and alone, having lost his harem, baggage, and men.\n\nHeraclius spent the rest of winter to the north of Lake Van. In 625, his forces attempted to push back towards the Euphrates. In a mere seven days, he bypassed Mount Ararat and the 200 miles along the Arsanias River to capture Amida and Martyropolis, important fortresses on the upper Tigris. Heraclius then carried on towards the Euphrates, pursued by Shahrbaraz. According to Arab sources, he was stopped at the Satidama or Batman Su River and defeated; Byzantine sources, however, do not mention this incident. Another minor skirmish between Heraclius and Shahrbaraz took place at the Sarus river near Adana. Shahrbaraz stationed his forces across the river from the Byzantines. A bridge spanned the river, and the Byzantines immediately charged across. Shahrbaraz feigned retreat to lead the Byzantines into an ambush, and the vanguard of Heraclius' army was destroyed within minutes. The Sasanians, however, had neglected to cover the bridge, and Heraclius charged across with the rearguard, unafraid of the arrows that the Sasanians fired, turning the tide of battle against the Sasanians. Shahrbaraz expressed his admiration at Heraclius to a renegade Greek: \"See your Emperor! He fears these arrows and spears no more than would an anvil!\" The Battle of Sarus was a successful retreat for the Byzantines that panegyrists magnified. In the aftermath of the battle, the Byzantine army wintered at Trebizond.\n\nShahrbaraz, along with a smaller army, later managed to slip through Heraclius' flanks and bee-lined for Chalcedon, the Sasanian base across the Bosphorus from Constantinople. Khosrow II coordinated with the Khagan of the Avars so as to launch a coordinated attack on Constantinople from both European and Asiatic sides. The army of Shahrbaraz stationed themselves at Chalcedon, while the Avars placed themselves on the European side of Constantinople and destroyed the Aqueduct of Valens. Because of the Byzantine navy's control of the Bosphorus strait, however, the Sasanians could not send troops to the European side to aid their ally. This reduced the effectiveness of the siege, because the Sasanians were experts in siege warfare. Furthermore, the Sasanians and Avars had difficulties communicating across the guarded Bosphorus—though undoubtedly, there was some communication between the two forces.\n\nOn 7 August, a fleet of Sasanian rafts ferrying troops across the Bosphorus was surrounded and destroyed by Byzantine ships. The Slavs under the Avars attempted to attack the sea walls from across the Golden Horn, while the main Avar host attacked the land walls. Patrician Bonus' galleys rammed and destroyed the Slavic boats; the Avar land assault from 6 to 7 August also failed. With the news that Theodore had decisively triumphed over Shahin (supposedly leading Shahin to die from depression), the Avars retreated to the Balkan hinterland within two days, never to threaten Constantinople seriously again. Even though the army of Shahrbaraz was still encamped at Chalcedon, the threat to Constantinople was over.\n\nDisappointed by Shahrbaraz's failure, Khosrow II sent a messenger bearing a letter to Kardarigan, who was the second-in-command of the Sasanian army. The letter said that Kardarigan should kill Shahrbaraz and take his army back to Ctesiphon, but the bearers of the letter were intercepted in Galatia by Byzantine soldiers, who gave the letter to Constantine III who in turn gave it to Heraclius. After reading the letter, he offered to show the letter to Shahrbaraz in a meeting at Constantinople. Shahrbaraz accepted his proposal and met Heraclius at Constantinople, where he read the letter and switched over to Heraclius' side. Shahrbaraz then changed the contents of the letter, making it state that Khosrow II wanted 400 officers killed, ensuring that Kardarigan and the rest of the army remained loyal to him. \n\nShahrbaraz then moved his army to northern Syria, where he could easily decide to support either Khosrow or Heraclius at a moment's notice. Still, with the neutralization of Khosrow's most skilled general, Heraclius deprived his enemy of some of his best and most experienced troops, while securing his flanks prior to his invasion of Iran.\n\nIn 627, Khosrow sent Shahrbaraz a letter, which said that he should send his army to Ctesiphon. Shahrbaraz, however, disobeyed, and moved to Asuristan, where he set up a camp in Ardashir Khurrah. Khosrow then sent Farrukhzad to negotiate with him. However, Farrukhzad made a secret conspiracy against Khosrow and joined Shahrbaraz.\n\nOne year later, the feudal families of the Sasanian Empire, who were tired of war against the Byzantines and Khosrow's oppressive policies, freed Khosrow's son Kavadh, who had been imprisoned by his own father. The feudal families included: Shahrbaraz himself, who represented the Mihran family; the House of Ispahbudhan represented by \"spahbed\" Farrukh Hormizd and his two sons Rostam Farrokhzad and Farrukhzad; the Armenian faction represented by Varaztirots II Bagratuni; and finally the Kanarang. In February, Kavadh, along with Aspad Gushnasp, captured Ctesiphon and imprisoned Khosrow II. Kavadh II then proclaimed himself as king of the Sasanian Empire on 25 February, and with the aid of Piruz Khosrow, executed all his brothers and half-brothers, including Khosrow II's favorite son Mardanshah. Three days later, he ordered Mihr Hormozd to execute his father. With the agreement of the nobles of the Sasanian empire, Kavadh then made peace with the Byzantine emperor Heraclius; under the terms of this peace, the Byzantines regained all their lost territories, their captured soldiers, a war indemnity, along with the True Cross and other relics that were lost in Jerusalem in 614.\n\nFollowing the loss of territory required for the peace treaty, the embittered aristocracy started forming independent states within the Sasanian Empire. This divided the resources of the country. Furthermore, dams and canals became derelict, and a devastating plague erupted in the western provinces of Iran, killing half of the population along with Kavadh II, who was succeeded by Ardashir III.\n\nAfter the death of Kavadh II, Heraclius sent Shahrbaraz a letter saying: \n\nOn 27 April 630 Shahrbaraz besieged Ctesiphon with a force of 6,000 men. He was, however, unable to capture the city, and then made an alliance with Piruz Khosrow, the leader of the \"Parsig\" (Persian) faction, and the previous minister of the Empire during the reign of Ardashir's father, Kavadh II. He also made an alliance with Namdar Jushnas, who had succeeded him as the \"spahbed\" of Nēmrōz in 626. Shahrbaraz, with the aid of these two powerful figures, captured Ctesiphon, and executed Ardashir III along with many Sasanian nobles, including Ardashir's minister Mah-Adhur Gushnasp. Shahrbaraz then became the new \"shah\" (king) of the Sasanian Empire, and killed Kardarigan, who opposed Shahrbaraz after his usurpation of the Sasanian throne.\n\nHeraclius also acknowledged Shahrbaraz's Christian son Niketas, as his heir. An Iranian Christian as the heir of the Sasanian Empire opened the chances of the Christianization of Iran. After some time, Shahrbaraz had Shamta, the son of the former financial minister Yazdin, crucified on a church in Margha. The reason of this execution was reportedly because the latter had insulted Shahrbaraz during the reign of Khosrow II. Forty days later, 9 June 630, during a ceremony, Shahrbaraz was killed by a spear thrown by Farrukh Hormizd, who then helped Borandukht, the daughter of Khosrow II, to ascend the throne.\n\nShahrbaraz had played an important role in the Byzantine–Sasanian War of 602–628, and the events that occurred after the war; his mutiny against Khosrow II resulted in a Byzantine Pyrrhic victory and caused the Sasanian Empire to fall into a civil war. After the death of Shahrbaraz, his son Shapur-i Shahrvaraz deposed Borandukht and became king of the Sasanian Empire. His reign, however, did not last long, and he was shortly deposed by the Sasanian nobles. During the same period, Niketas entered in the service of the Byzantines, and would later appear as one of the Byzantine generals at the Battle of Yarmouk during the Arab–Byzantine wars.\n\n"}
{"id": "42035646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42035646", "title": "Shelby Can-Am", "text": "Shelby Can-Am\n\nThe Shelby Can-Am is a sports car that had its own racing class in the United States between 1991 and 1996. Some of the models were shipped off to South Africa to race there, where they continued to be campaigned until about 2015.\n\nAfter the original Can-Am folded after the 1987 season the SCCA looked for a new sports car class. In 1989 Caroll Shelby joined the SCCA to design a new single make sports car racing car. The car, built by Racefab Inc., went in production in 1990. The first race was a demonstration event during the SCCA National Championship Runoffs. The Shelby Can-Am class, and a pro series were launched by the SCCA in 1991. The pro series ran for six years. Memo Gidley made his pro racing debut in 1993. It also was a class at the SCCA National Championship Runoffs between 1991 and 1996. 20 drivers started the 1991 Runoffs race. David Tenny, who started from pole-position, won the race. The following year the field was drastically reduced to 14 drivers. Only four drivers started the last Shelby Can-Am Runoffs race in 1996. Chassis number #066 was converted into a Le Mans Prototype. The car, the LR-93, was entered by Cliff Rassweiler and James Lee in the 1993 IMSA GT Championship. The car failed to finish both races it was entered due to mechanical failure. The car was restored to the original Shelby Can-Am specifications and shipped off to South Africa.\nIn 1997, Shelby finished an Oldsmobile-powered prototype meant to continue the Can-Am series, but it remained a one-off. It had the new four-cam Aurora V8 engine, tuned to about .\n\nIn 1998 there was a need for a Development class in SA and the Sports 2000 class was used for this vision and South Africa's motorsports sanctioning body was looking for an alternative to replace the successful Sports 2000 class with 32 cars on National level. 28 Shelby Can-Am cars were bought up and shipped to South Africa. The aging Dodge engine was replaced by a Nissan VQ35 engine. The series was launched with financial support from Vodacom which would be a naming sponsor of the series until 2005. The inaugural season saw 39 different drivers at least competing in at least one race. The series was part of the Pro-Tour at first, joining the other national racing classes of South Africa. In 2008 Jeroen Bleekemolen raced one weekend in the series in preparation of the A1GP weekend at Kyalami. The Dutch driver achieved a pole position but had no luck in the races with two DNF's. He returned the following year again achieving a pole position. This converted in a win in the first race. Both times Bleekemolen replaced regular driver Bertil Hoffman, whom also races under a Dutch licence.\n\nFor 2008 the Can-Am cars got a new bodywork. This bodywork made the cars look more like a modern-day Le Mans Prototype. As of the 2013 season the class merged with a GT series to form the SA Sports & V8 GT. To limit costs tyre usage and car modifications are strictly regulated. The Shelby Can-Am made its first appearance in The African Six Hour in 2013. A Juno Group CN car won the race but Shelby Can-Am cars filled the rest of the top five. At Phakisa Freeway, Thomas Reib and Sean Greve were classified in second place, the best result of the Shelby Can-Am cars.2014 Final round of 2014 Regional Races at Killarney as well as the Africa 3 Hour which finished with a fantastic tussle between the two local Juno entries. Francis Carruthers (Scotland) and Nick Adcock (England), Malta Juno SS3 3.0 taking a 10.048 second victory from Steve Humble and Ferdi van Niekerk Jnr in their Malta Juno CN 2.0. Third overall went to Mark Lauth and Mike Verrier, Black Chrome Shelby Can-Am. In 2014 Alan Eve is the overall winner of the 2014 Shelby Can-Am Racing National Championship, Master Champion and the overall 2014 SA Sports and V8 Supercars Champion. 2015 Shelby Can-Am Racing competitors will run in the African Endurance series with the 6 Hour Phakisa Freeway race first up on the 28th of February 2015.\n\nInitially two prototypes were built, chassis numbers PX-1 and PX-2. Steve Hope was one of the testdrivers. The first complete chassis was bought by W. Jerry Gillis, who would win the 1996 Pro Series title. The cars were built by Racefab Inc. from Rusk, Texas. The tube frame chassis, designed by David Bruns was fitted with a four-speed Weismann transaxle. The engine was production based derived from a Dodge Intrepid. The Dodge engine was upgraded to produce 255hp. Pete Brock designed the wedge-shaped body.\n\nWhen the car was introduced in South Africa the Dodge engine was replaced by a Nissan Z350 engine. The engine capacity increased to 3500cc and the horsepower increased to 300 hp. The bodywork designed by Peter Brock in 1989 was replaced in 2008 giving it a more modern Le Mans Prototype look. The new body was designed and built in South Africa. It is made out of fibreglass.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13431296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13431296", "title": "Soteria (festival)", "text": "Soteria (festival)\n\nThe Soteria were ancient festivals held in many Greek cities from the 3rd century BC. They honoured the saviour (\"Sôter\") of a danger and could be dedicated to all the gods or only one (mainly Zeus \"Soterios\"). Heroic men regarded as deliverers were sometimes associated to the divinities, e.g. Aratus at Sicyon.\n\nThe most famous Soteria in antiquity were those held at Delphi. They had been instituted to commemorate the victory over the Celt invader Brennus (279 BC). They were composed of sports and musical competitions. Many cities were invited to the Delphi’s Soteria. In 246 BC, the Aetolian confederacy reorganized the festivities in order to equal others ancient games (e.g. the Pythian games).\n\n"}
{"id": "22459837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22459837", "title": "Teatro Opera", "text": "Teatro Opera\n\nThe Teatro Opera (Opera Theatre) is a prominent cinema and theatre house in Buenos Aires, Argentina.\n\nThe Opera Theatre was developed in 1871 by Antonio Pestalardo under the name of Teatro de la Opera, an Italian businessman who foresaw a need for popular theatre catering to the city's booming population in subsequent years. The original Beaux-Arts style theatre was opened in 1872 on what today is Corrientes Avenue, then a narrow street along Buenos Aires' northern outskirts, and premiered with a performance of Giuseppe Verdi's \"Il Trovatore\". Specializing in operas, the theatre was an early success and enjoyed a reputation of being among the most technically advanced at the time, becoming the first in Latin America to possess in-house generators, for instance.\nThe massive widening of Corrientes Street led to the theatre's demolition in 1935, however, following which the establishment was sold to Clemente Lococo, who had the Opera Theatre rebuilt. Designed by Belgian Argentine architect Albert Bourdon and reinaugurated in 1936, the new Opera Theatre was an Art Deco, multi-purpose house, hosting both stage performances and film with a capacity for 2,500 spectators. The Corrientes Avenue landmark also hosted regular Tango concerts led by stars including Hugo del Carril and Edmundo Rivero, as well as international performances such as Tamara Toumanova, Dore Hoyer, the \"Folies Bergère\"'s and Ella Fitzgerald's, and Louis Armstrong's during their days as a touring duo in the 1950s. The theatre also hosted bandoneonist Ástor Piazzolla's last, live performance in Argentina, in June 1989.\n\nEconomic instability and changing public tastes led to the theatre's decline during the 1990s and in 1996, its proprietors considered selling the building to parking structure developers. Public outcry and activism on the part of National Theatre Director Lito Cruz led to the passage of a National Theatre Law providing subsidies to struggling performance houses, as well as protecting them from demolition. The Opera Theatre was remodeled in 1998 and currently seats 1,852 spectators.\n\n\nPostcards (c. 1910) depicting the original Opera Theatre\n\n"}
{"id": "4873216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4873216", "title": "Trauma model of mental disorders", "text": "Trauma model of mental disorders\n\nThe trauma model of mental disorders, or trauma model of psychopathology, emphasises the effects of physical, sexual and psychological trauma as key causal factors in the development of psychiatric disorders, including depression and anxiety as well as psychoses, whether the trauma is experienced in childhood or adulthood. It conceptualises victims as having understandable reactions to traumatic events rather than suffering from mental illness.\n\nTrauma models emphasise that traumatic experiences are more common and more significant in terms of aetiology than has often been thought in people diagnosed with mental disorders. Such models have their roots in some psychoanalytic approaches, notably Sigmund Freud's early ideas on childhood sexual abuse and hysteria, Pierre Janet's work on dissociation, and Bowlby's attachment theory. There is significant research supporting the linkage between early experiences of chronic maltreatment and severe neglect and later psychological problems.\n\nIn the 1960s trauma models became associated with humanist and anti-psychiatry approaches, particularly in regard to understanding schizophrenia and the role of the family. Personality disorders have also been a focus, particularly borderline personality disorder, with the role of dissociation and 'freezing responses' (more extreme reactions than fight-flight when someone is terrified and traumatised) thought to have a significant role in the aetiology of psychological disturbance. Extreme versions of trauma models have implicated the fetal environment and the trauma of being born, but these are not well-supported in the academic literature and have been associated with recovered memory controversies.\n\nPeople are traumatised by a wide range of people, not just family members. For example, male victims of sexual abuse report being abused in institutional settings (boarding schools, care homes, sports clubs).\n\nTrauma models thus highlight stressful and traumatic factors in early attachment relations and in the development of mature interpersonal relationships. They are often presented as a counterpoint to psychiatric orthodoxy and inform criticisms of mental health research and practice in that it has become too focused on genetics, neurochemistry and medication.\n\nFrom the 1940s to the 1970s prominent mental health professionals proposed trauma models as a means of understanding schizophrenia, including Harry Stack Sullivan, Frieda Fromm-Reichmann, Theodore Lidz, Gregory Bateson, Silvano Arieti and R.D. Laing. Based on their clinical work they theorised that schizophrenia appears to be induced by children's experiences in profoundly disturbed families and reflect victims attempts to cope with such families and live in societies that are inherently damaging to people's psychological well-being. In the 1950s Sullivan's theory that schizophrenia is related to interpersonal relationships was widely accepted in the United States. Silvano Arieti's book \"Interpretation of Schizophrenia\" won the American National Book Award in the field of science in 1975. The book advances a psychological model for understanding all the regressive types of the disorder.\n\nSome of the psychogenic models proposed by these early researchers, such as the \"schizophrenogenic mother\", came under sustained criticism, from feminists who saw them as 'mother-blaming' and from a psychiatric profession that increasingly moved towards biological determinism. From the 1960s pharmacological treatments became the increasing focus of psychiatry, and by the 1980s the theory that the family dynamics could be implicated in the aetiology of schizophrenia became viewed as unacceptable by many mental health professionals in America and Europe. Before his death in 2001, at 90, Theodore Lidz, one of the main proponents of the \"schizophrenogenic\" parents theory, expressed regret that current research in biological psychiatry was \"barking up the wrong tree\". Like Lidz, Laing maintained until his death that the cause of both schizoid personality disorder and schizophrenia was influenced by family relationships. And more recent research bears this out, e.g. child abuse has been shown to have a causal role in depression, PTSD, eating disorders, substance abuse and dissociative disorders, and research reveals that the more severe the abuse the higher the probability that psychiatric symptoms will develop in adult life.\n\nJudith Herman's book Trauma and Recovery has heavily influenced therapeutic approaches. Recovery entails three phases which are best worked through sequentially: First 'establishing safety'; secondly 'a process of remembrance and mourning for what was lost'; thirdly 'reconnecting with community and more broadly, society'.\n\nCritics of the model, such as August Piper, argue that the logic that childhood trauma causes insanity has a serious flaw: If the claim was true, the abuse of millions of children over the years should have caused higher prevalence rates of mental disorders than the literature reveals. Other critics, particularly proponents of behaviour family therapy, have seen trauma models as parent blaming, and have emphasised the fact that families are usually the main, and often only, source of support for people diagnosed with severe mental illness. Lucy Johnstone has pointed out that some critics advocate family interventions for adult psychiatric patients whilst at the same time maintaining that childhood experiences are not causal as regards mental illness - as if family members can only have a helpful or damaging impact on their adult children.\n\nIn response to Piper's assertion, it has been noted that Arieti stated in \"Interpretation of Schizophrenia\" that a trauma is more significant when committed by people to whom young human beings are emotionally bonded, and abuse is often interwoven with other forms of neglect and confusing behaviours from care-givers:\nA 2005 meta-analysis of schizophrenia revealed that the prevalence of physical and sexual abuse in the histories of people diagnosed with psychotic disorders is very high and has been understudied. This literature review revealed prevalence rates of childhood sexual abuse in studies of people diagnosed with schizophrenia ranging from 45% to 65%. An analysis of the American National Comorbidity Study revealed that people who have endured three kinds of abuse (e.g., sexual, physical, bullying) are at an 18-fold higher risk of psychosis, whereas those experiencing five types are 193 times more likely to become psychotic. A 2012 review article supported the hypothesis that current or recent trauma may affect an individual's assessment of the more distant past, changing the experience of the past and resulting in dissociative states. Several reviews of risk factors for common mental disorders have emphasised trauma. Such research has rejuvenated interest in this field, both from clinicians, researchers and service user organisations such as the Hearing Voices movement.\n\nPsychiatrist Colin Ross calls his model the \"trauma model of mental disorders\" and emphasises that, unlike biological models, this addresses the literature on comorbidity of trauma with mental disorders. Ross describes the theoretical basis of his trauma model as common sense: \"The problem faced by many patients is that they did not grow up in a reasonably healthy, normal family. They grew up in an inconsistent, abusive and traumatic family. The very people to whom the child had to attach for survival were also abuse perpetrators and hurt him or her badly... The basic conflict, the deepest pain, and the deepest source of symptoms, is the fact that mom and dad's behavior hurts, did not fit together, and did not make sense.\"\n\nIn terms of psychoses, most researchers and clinicians believe that genetics remains a causative risk factor but \"genes alone do not cause the illness\". Modern views of genetics see genes more like dimmer switches, with environmental factors switching the genes on; the more severe the environmental stress, the more effect genes have.\n\nIn the field of criminology, Lonnie Athens developed a theory of how a process of brutalization by parents or peers that usually occurs in childhood results in violent crimes in adulthood. Richard Rhodes's \"Why They Kill\" describes Athens's observations about domestic and societal violence in the criminals' backgrounds. Both Athens and Rhodes reject the genetic inheritance theories.\n\nCriminologists Jonathan Pincus and Dorothy Otnow Lewis believe that although it is the interaction of childhood abuse and neurological disturbances that explains murder, virtually all of the 150 murderers they studied over a 25-year period had suffered severe abuse as children. Pincus believes that the only feasible remedy for crime would be the prevention of child abuse.\n\nThe logical conclusion of the trauma model is that the task for clinicians is not to treat biological disorders but to help people manage and modify their learned, and often embedded, responses to traumas they have experienced. As such, services need to be reconstituted to focus on this aim.\n\n"}
{"id": "52760151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52760151", "title": "Tunnel network", "text": "Tunnel network\n\nIn transport, tunnels can be connected together to form a tunnel network. These can be used in mining to reach ore below ground, in cities for underground rapid transit systems, in sewer systems, in warfare to avoid enemy detection or attacks, as maintenance access routes beneath sites with high ground-traffic such as airports and amusement parks, or to extend public living areas or commercial access while avoiding outdoor weather.\n\nTunnel networks were sometimes developed during siege warfare, even dating back to classical antiquity. Starting with a single tunnels being dug to undermine a wall that might be detected by the defenders and met with counter-tunnels, leading to tunnel warfare. Defenders might first create a series of underground listing posts to preempt such mining attacks.\n\nAny time the use of trenches becomes extensive, this naturally leads to connecting them with tunnel networks for safe passage both along the trench lines and with rear areas. In World War I, when given enough time and resources, the underground components of the defenses could become more extensive than those above ground.\n\nThe French Maginot Line, constructed from 1929 to 1939, was a chain of fortresses, bunkers, retractable turrets, outposts, obstacles, and sunken artillery emplacements, all linked by an extensive shell-proof underground tunnel network. It included underground barracks, shelters, ammo dumps and depots, and even had its own underground narrow gauge railways.\n\nThe tunnels of Củ Chi are an immense network of connecting underground tunnels located in the Củ Chi District of Ho Chi Minh City (Saigon), Vietnam, and are part of a much larger network of tunnels that underlie much of the country. The Củ Chi tunnels were the location of several military campaigns during the Vietnam War, and were the Viet Cong's base of operations for the Tết Offensive in 1968.\nThe tunnels were used by Viet Cong soldiers as hiding spots during combat, as well as serving as communication and supply routes, hospitals, food and weapon caches and living quarters for numerous North Vietnamese fighters. The tunnel systems were of great importance to the Viet Cong in their resistance to American forces, and helped to counter the growing American military effort.\nThe Vịnh Mốc tunnels are a tunnel complex in Quảng Trị, Vietnam. During the Vietnam War it was strategically located on the border of North Vietnam and South Vietnam. The tunnels were built to shelter people from the intense bombing of Son Trung and Son Ha communes in Vinh Linh county of Quảng Trị Province in the Vietnamese Demilitarized Zone. The American forces believed the villagers of Vinh Moc were supplying food and armaments to the North Vietnamese garrison on the island of Con Co which was in turn hindering the American bombers on their way to bomb Hanoi. The idea was to force the villagers of Vinh Moc to leave the area but as is typical in Vietnam there was nowhere else to go. The villagers initially dug the tunnels to move their village 10 metres underground but the American forces designed bombs that burrowed down 10 metres. Eventually against these odds, the villagers moved the village to a depth of 30 metres. It was constructed in several stages beginning in 1966 and used until early 1972. The complex grew to include wells, kitchens, rooms for each family and spaces for healthcare. Around 60 families lived in the tunnels; as many as 17 children were born inside the tunnels.\nThe tunnels were a success and no villagers lost their lives. The only direct hit was from a bomb that failed to explode; the resulting hole was utilized as a ventilation shaft.\nThree levels of tunnels were eventually built.\n\nDuring the 2014 Israel–Gaza conflict, the Israeli military uncovered and destroyed 32 cross-border tunnels that went on for miles beneath Gaza and reached into Israeli territory. According to intelligence officials, Israeli engineers are developing a system that could detect and destroy cross-border tunnels for which the Israeli government has reportedly spent more than $250 million since 2004.\n\nA network of caves beneath the cities of Mosul and Badana were built by ISIS. The terrorist group avoids battlefield engagements, preferring to hide in such tunnels safe from satellite detection, drone strikes and artillery, managed to maintain supply lines and communication with other areas under their control.\n\nA Texas investor group is building a $300 million luxury community replete that includes a navigable tunnel network with underground homes and air-lock blast doors designed for people worried about a dirty bomb or other disasters.\n\n"}
{"id": "548666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=548666", "title": "Wave-Gotik-Treffen", "text": "Wave-Gotik-Treffen\n\nWave-Gotik-Treffen (ger. \"das Treffen\" means \"the meeting\") is an annual world festival for \"dark\" music and arts in Leipzig, Germany. 150+ bands and artists from various backgrounds (gothic rock, gothic metal, EBM, industrial, noise, darkwave, neo-folk, neo-classical, medieval, experimental, Gothic metal, deathrock and pun music being examples) play at several venues throughout the city over four days on Whitsuntide. The festival also features several fairs with medieval, gothic and cultural merchandise.\n\nWith 18,000 to 20,000 regular attendants, the WGT is one of the largest events of the gothic, cybergoth, steampunk, and rivethead subcultures worldwide.\n\nA first attempt at a \"Treffen\" was made in 1987 in Potsdam. However, as the laws of the German Democratic Republic made this kind of event illegal, only a few hundred visitors attended.\n\nIn 1991, after the re-unification of Germany, the first official Wave-Gotik-Treffen was held in the \"Eiskeller\" club in Leipzig. Since then, the number of visitors has increased greatly.\nThe largest installment of the WGT was the one in the year 2000 with over 300 acts and an estimated 25,000 visitors. However, that year's festival suffered financial collapse on the third day and had to be aborted. After all festival security guards, most bands and much of the technical staff had left, volunteer helpers and several bands who played for free staged a final concert. Contrary to police expectations, no rioting of any sort occurred.\n\nThe major attraction of the Wave-Gotik-Treffen is the band performances. Generally, the number of musical acts is close to 200, spanning the breadth of \"dark music\" from acoustic folk to medieval-influenced to deathrock, to dark electro, EBM, symphonic metal, gothic metal, industrial. The dozen-or-more venues are equally varied, from the stately Schauspielhaus to the somber Krypta of the Völkerschlachtdenkmal to the Parkbühne under the trees to the massive 10,000-person capacity AGRA fairground halls.\n\nIn addition, there are Renaissance fairs, Viking and Pagan markets, Gothic Romance events, CD/DVD and film premieres, literary readings, artist signing events, brunches celebrating absinthe, fetishistic events, and many late-night danceclubs, such as Darkflower and Moritzbastei, with top-name DJs. The main market in the AGRA that runs the entire duration of the festival is perhaps the largest for the goth community anywhere in the world.\n\nFestival participants typically stay either in designated camping areas outside the Agra venue or in the hotels and hostels in and around Leipzig. In order to stay at camping areas, participants must pay extra for an \"Obsorgekarte\", which gives them access to the camping areas. All participants with a wrist band are entitled to ride local Leipzig public transportation, such as bus, tram and local train for free.\n\nThe date of the WGT varies from year to year. It is held on the German holiday weekend of , known in English as Pentecost or Whitsun, which is seven weeks after Easter. Unofficial events start in Leipzig on the Thursday night preceding the date of , while the official festival starts on Friday and runs until early-morning on Tuesday, as Monday is an official holiday in Germany.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24507638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24507638", "title": "Windsor Free Festival", "text": "Windsor Free Festival\n\nThe Windsor Free Festival was a British Free Festival held in Windsor Great Park from 1972 to 1974. Organised by some London commune dwellers, notably Ubi Dwyer and Sid Rawle, it was in many ways the forerunner of the Stonehenge Free Festival, particularly in the brutality of its final suppression by the police, which led to a public outcry about the tactics involved.\n\nThe first Festival in 1972 was promoted as \"Rent Strike: The People's Free Festival\", reflecting the political concerns of the organisers (coming as they did from squatting and commune movements), with an anti-monarchist choice of site in \"the Queen's back garden\". Attendance was about 700 in its first year, rising to 8,000 in 1973, and an even larger crowd in its final year.\n\nThe 1974 Festival, due to last for ten days, was broken up on the sixth morning by a large number of police. Early on 29 August 1974 the site was invaded by hundreds of officers from the Thames Valley police force with truncheons drawn, who gave the remaining participants ten minutes to leave. Those who did not were arrested or evicted with a level of force that led seven national newspapers to call for an inquiry, and Roy Jenkins, the Home Secreatary, to call for a report from the Thames Valley Chief Constable. Nicholas Albery, playwright Heathcote Williams and his partner Diana Senior successfully sued David Holdsworth, the Thames Valley Chief Constable for creating a riotous situation in which the police attacked the plaintiffs.\n\nIn 1975 both Ubi Dwyer and Sid Rawle were imprisoned, for attempting to promote a 1975 Windsor Festival. A further attempt to return to Windsor in 1978 led to another arrest for Ubi Dwyer. The government provided an abandoned airfield at Watchfield in 1975, in response to the public outrage, and as a means of moving the festival away from Royal castles, but the atmosphere of this event was poor compared to Stonehenge, where the energy of the People's Free Festival continued.\n\n\n"}
