{"id": "17754835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17754835", "title": "Academic grading in Portugal", "text": "Academic grading in Portugal\n\nIn Portuguese middle-schools, a five-point grading scale is used, where:\n\n\nIn high-schools and universities, a 20-point grading scale is used. When it is the case of the final grade of an academic degree, each grade is assigned a qualitative mark by degree (depending on the university, the students have at most a final grade of 16 or 17, being almost impossible for students to have a final score between 18-20): \n"}
{"id": "52511897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52511897", "title": "Advanced International Model Higher Secondary School", "text": "Advanced International Model Higher Secondary School\n\nAdvanced International Model Higher Secondary School is a school in Nepal. It is located in the near busy market of Lagankhel Bus Park, Lalitpur. The school celebrated its Silver Jubilee in 2016 as it has completed 25 years of establishment. The school has its own AIMS International College giving master level education .\n"}
{"id": "10109680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10109680", "title": "Alabama Commission on Higher Education", "text": "Alabama Commission on Higher Education\n\nThe Alabama Commission on Higher education, a statewide 12-member lay board appointed by the Governor of Alabama, Lieutenant Governor, and Speaker of the House and confirmed by the Senate, is the state agency responsible for the overall statewide planning and coordination of higher education in Alabama, the administration of various student aid programs, and the performance of designated regulatory functions. The Commission seeks to provide reasonable access to quality collegiate and university education for the citizens of Alabama. In meeting this commitment, the Commission facilitates informed decision making and policy formulation regarding wise stewardship of resources in response to the needs of students and the goals of institutions. The agency also provides a state-level framework for institutions to respond cooperatively and individually to the needs of the citizens of the State.\n\nThe planning/coordination/designated regulatory functions of the Commission are limited to public sector institutions.\n\nUnder the umbrella of the commission is the Network of Alabama Academic Libraries, an academic consortium. It administers Alabama Mosaic, a publicly accessible \"repository of digital materials on Alabama's history, culture, places, and people.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "14513637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14513637", "title": "Andorra National Library", "text": "Andorra National Library\n\nThe Andorra National Library () was §founded in 1930, then re-opened in 1974. It is housed in Casa Bauró, an old manor house in the Andorran capital, Andorra la Vella. Amongst other functions, it is the legal deposit and copyright library for Andorra.\n\nThe Andorra National Library was created on September 8, 1930 with the aim of providing book lending services to the people of the valleys of Andorra (\"les Valls d'Andorra\"). It was initially housed in the hall of lost steps (\"sala dels passos perduts\") in the Casa de la Vall (the headquarters of the General Council of Andorra). Its creation resulted from an initiative of the Andorran Society of Barcelona Residents (\"Sociedat Andorrana de Residents a Barcelona\") together with contributions from various private individuals, and followed in the wake of the founding of other socio-cultural entities such as the Association for the Protection of Catalan Education (\"Associació Protectora de l'Ensenyança Catalana\").\n\nThe new library was established in 1974. The initial collection of around 2,500 volumes came mainly from the library of the Casa de la Vall, but also included donations from the Catalan Book Exposition, donations from various publishing houses, and works acquired by the General Council of Andorra.\n\nIn 1986, after being housed in various locations, the library moved to a building called Prada Casadet. Although this building housed both the National Library and the Public Library of the Government of Andorra at the time, a small room was dedicated exclusively to the national collection.\n\nIn 1996, with the collections having grown considerably, it was decided to restructure and separate the services. The National Library of Andorra was therefore relocated to a building called Casa Bauró whilst the rest of the collection remained at Prada Casadet.\n\nIn addition to its other roles, the Andorra National Library has acted as the national ISBN agency for Andorra since 1987.\n\n"}
{"id": "27388899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27388899", "title": "Association for Informal Logic and Critical Thinking", "text": "Association for Informal Logic and Critical Thinking\n\nAssociation for Informal Logic and Critical Thinking (AILACT) is a scholarly organization founded in 1983, whose purpose is to promote the study of informal logic and critical thinking. The organization sponsors programs in conjunction with the American Philosophical Association and the Canadian Philosophical Association.\n\n"}
{"id": "11786241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11786241", "title": "Book rental service", "text": "Book rental service\n\nLibraries have been lending books to the public for thousands of years. First libraries date back to 2600 BC during Sumerian civilization. In the modern era lending books largely happens by Public Libraries. Generally worldwide public libraries are non-profit organizations offering book lending services free to their patrons and are generally funded through taxes and donations or by the state., Public libraries are accessible to general public and are run by civil servants, state employees, or volunteers. Some of the largest libraries in the world include Library of Congress in the United States of America and British Library with millions of titles in their catalogs. Besides the public libraries, private libraries also provide lending services, and are usually run by individuals, associations, or by corporate organizations and universities. Private libraries usually require a subscription or membership to the library (paid or unpaid) and provide services specific to the organization, area or university.\n\nHistorically before the industrial revolution, books were too expensive for commoners to buy, and there were businesses which made profit by renting out books for a fee. \"Kashi-hon\" in Japan was one of such businesses. In modern era in developing and developed nations, for-profit book rental services have started to lend physical books, audiobook CDs, e-books, and audiobook MP3s through stores and/or by an online (website) interface after popularization of the World Wide Web. Most book rental companies provide books with doorstep delivery using logistic services. Following the popular Netflix model for video rental, many book companies have applied features such as unlimited rentals, free shipping, and no late fees to their book distribution services.\n\nBased on the rental method the book rental companies can be categorized into two subgroups:\n\nBased on the type of books that the book rental service rents following classification can be done:\n\n"}
{"id": "1138207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1138207", "title": "Center for Science and Culture", "text": "Center for Science and Culture\n\nThe Center for Science and Culture (CSC), formerly known as the Center for the Renewal of Science and Culture (CRSC), is part of the Discovery Institute (DI), a conservative Christian think tank in the United States. The CSC lobbies for the inclusion of creationism in the form of intelligent design (ID) in public school science curricula as an explanation for the origins of life and the universe while casting doubt on the theory of evolution. These positions have been rejected by the scientific community, which identifies intelligent design as pseudoscientific neo-creationism, whereas the theory of evolution is overwhelmingly accepted as a matter of scientific consensus.\n\nThe Center for Science and Culture serves as the hub of the intelligent design movement. Nearly all of prominent proponents of intelligent design are either CSC advisors, officers, or fellows. Stephen C. Meyer, a former vice president of the Discovery Institute and founder of the CSC, serves as a Senior Fellow, and Phillip E. Johnson is the Program Advisor. Johnson is commonly presented as the movement's \"father\" and architect of the Center's Wedge strategy and \"Teach the Controversy\" campaign, as well as the Santorum Amendment.\n\nIn 1987, the US Supreme Court ruled in \"Edwards v. Aguillard\" against \"creation science\" being taught in United States public school science classes. In reaction, the term \"intelligent design\" was coined as a substitute in drafts of the textbook \"Of Pandas and People\", which was published in 1989, beginning the campaigning of the intelligent design movement under the leadership of \"Pandas\" editor Charles Thaxton. The \"Edwards v. Aguillard\" ruling also inspired Phillip E. Johnson to begin anti-evolution campaigning. He met Stephen C. Meyer, and through him was introduced to others who were developing what became the Wedge strategy, including Michael Denton, Michael Behe and William A. Dembski, with Johnson becoming the de facto leader of the group. By 1995, Johnson was opposing the methodological naturalism of science in which \"The Creator belongs to the realm of religion, not scientific investigation,\" and promoting \"theistic realism\" which \"assumes that the universe and all its creatures were brought into existence for a purpose by God\" and expects \"this 'fact' of creation to have empirical, observable consequences.\"\n\nIn December 1993, Bruce Chapman, president and founder of the Discovery Institute, noticed an essay in \"The Wall Street Journal\" by Meyer about a dispute when biology lecturer Dean H. Kenyon taught intelligent design creationism in introductory classes. Kenyon had co-authored \"Of Pandas and People\", and in 1993 Meyer had contributed to the teacher's notes for the second edition of \"Pandas\". Meyer was an old friend of Discovery Institute co-founder George Gilder, and over dinner about a year later they formed the idea of a think tank opposed to materialism. In the summer of 1995, Chapman and Meyer met a representative of Howard Ahmanson, Jr. Meyer, who had previously tutored Ahmanson's son in science, recalls being asked \"What could you do if you had some financial backing?\"\n\nThe Center for the Renewal of Science and Culture, as it was originally named, grew out of a conference called \"The Death of Materialism and the Renewal of Culture\" that the Discovery Institute organised in the summer of 1995. It was founded in 1996 by the Discovery Institute with funding provided by Fieldstead & Company, the Stewardship Foundation, Howard Ahmanson, Jr. and the Maclellan Foundation. The evolution of the Center's name in 2002 reflects its attempt to present itself as less religiously motivated in the public's eye. The evolving banners on the CRSC/CSC's website pictorially parallel these verbal efforts to disassociate the site from its overtly religious origins. The \"renewal\" in its name referred to its stated goal of \"renewing\" American culture by grounding society's major institutions, especially education, in religion as outlined in the Wedge Document.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAn internal CSC report dating from 1998 which outlined a five-year plan for fostering broader acceptance of ID was leaked to the public in 1999. This plan became known as the Wedge strategy. The Wedge Document explained the CSC's key aims are \"To defeat scientific materialism and its destructive moral, cultural and political legacies\" and to \"replace materialistic explanations with the theistic understanding that nature and human beings are created by God.\"\n\nThe document sets as \"Five-Year Goals\" \"To see intelligent design theory as an accepted \"alternative\" in the sciences and scientific research being done from the perspective of design theory\" and notably \"To see major new debates in education, life issues, legal and personal responsibility pushed to the front of the national agenda.\" This was seen in the following years, with public debates over the teaching of intelligent design in public school classrooms taking place in many states as part of the Teach the Controversy campaign.\n\nIf the CSC's strategy is successful, within twenty years the goals are \"To see intelligent design theory as the \"dominant\" perspective in science.\" and \"To see design theory permeate our religious, cultural, moral and political life.\" The CSC has responded to controversy regarding the Wedge Document, saying \"Conspiracy theorists in the media continue to recycle the urban legend of the 'Wedge' document...\"\n\nThe CSC's Teach the Controversy campaign seeks to promote the teaching of \"the full range of scientific views\" on evolution on \"unresolved issues\" and the \"scientific weaknesses of evolutionary theory.\" Critics of the CSC's campaign say that they have manufactured the controversy and that they promote the false perception that evolution is \"in crisis\" and is a \"dying theory.\"\n\nThe strategy has been to move from standards battles, to curriculum writing, to textbook adoption, all the while undermining the central positions of evolution in biology and methodological naturalism in science. The CSC is the primary organizer and promoter of the Teach the Controversy campaign. Examples of Teach the Controversy in action were the Kansas evolution hearings, the Santorum Amendment, 2002 Ohio Board of Education intelligent design controversy, and the Dover Area School District intelligent design controversy.\n\nThe CSC believe that the program and curricula they advocate presents evidence both for and against evolution and then encourages students to evaluate the arguments themselves. Casting the conflicting points of view and agendas as an academic and scholarly controversy was proposed by Phillip E. Johnson of the Discovery Institute in his book \"The Wedge of Truth: Splitting the Foundations of Naturalism\" (2000). In his book, he writes of the 1999–2000 Kansas evolution hearings controversy over the teaching of intelligent design in public school classrooms: \"What educators in Kansas and elsewhere should be doing is to 'teach the controversy.'\"\n\nIn its early years, the CSC (then called the CRSC) offered science curriculum that assured teachers that its \"Web curriculum can be appropriated without textbook adoption wars.\" This had the net effect of encouraging ID sympathetic teachers to side-step standard textbook adoption procedures. Anticipating a test case, Discovery Institute director Stephen C. Meyer along with David K. DeWolf and Mark Edward DeForrest published in the \"Utah Law Review\" a legal strategy for winning judicial sanction.\n\nAccording to published reports, the nonprofit Discovery Institute spends more than $1 million USD a year for research, polls, lobbying and media pieces that support intelligent design and their Teach the Controversy strategy. In August 2005, \"The New York Times\" reported that since 2004 there have been 78 campaigns in 31 states to either Teach the Controversy or include intelligent design in science curricula, twice the number seen in 2002–2003.\n\nThe cultivation of support for ID and its social and political agenda in higher education is a very active part of CSC's strategy. The CSC has claimed that established scholars in the scientific community support intelligent design.\n\nCSC-recommended curricula benefits from special status at number of religious schools. Biola University and Oklahoma Baptist University are listed on the Access Research Network website as \"ID Colleges.\" In addition, the Intelligent Design and Evolution Awareness Center (IDEA), which began as a student organization at the University of California, San Diego, helps establish student IDEA clubs on university and high school campuses. The Intelligent Design and Undergraduate Research Center, ARN's student division, also recruits and supports followers at universities. Campus youth ministries play an active role in bringing ID to university campuses through lectures by ID leaders Phillip E. Johnson, William A. Dembski, Jonathan Wells, Michael Behe and others. This activity takes place outside university science departments.\n\nSeveral public universities, including the University of California, Berkeley, and the University of New Mexico have had intelligent design often as freshman seminars, honors courses and other courses outside required curricula in which instructors have wider latitude regarding course content.\n\nThe CSC offers fellowships of up to $60,000 a year for \"support of significant and original research in the natural sciences, the history and philosophy of science, cognitive science and related fields.\" Published reports state that the CSC has awarded $3.6 million in fellowships of $5,000 to $60,000 per year to 50 researchers since its founding in 1996.\n\nAmong the Center's publications are 50 books on intelligent design, such as those by William A. Dembski, and two documentary films, \"Unlocking the Mystery of Life\" (2003) and \"The Privileged Planet\" (2004), the later based on the book of the same name written by senior fellows Jay W. Richards and Guillermo Gonzalez.\n\nSince its founding in 1996, the CSC has spent 39 percent of its $9.3 million on research according to Meyer, underwriting books or papers, or often just paying universities to release professors from some teaching responsibilities so that they can ponder intelligent design. Over those nine years, $792,585 was spent to finance laboratory or field research in biology, paleontology or biophysics, while $93,828 was spent to help graduate students in paleontology, linguistics, history and philosophy.\n\nThe results of this are found in Discovery Institute-authored science class curricula, \"model lesson plans,\" that are at the center of many of the current debates about including intelligent design in public school science classes. These are promoted by the CSC which urges states and school boards to include criticism of evolution science lessons, to \"Teach the Controversy,\" rather than actually teach intelligent design which is susceptible to legal challenges on First Amendment grounds.\n\nIn May 2005, the Discovery Institute donated $16,000 to the Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History, and by museum policy, this minimum donation allowed them to celebrate their donation inside the museum in a gathering. The Discovery Institute decided to screen \"The Privileged Planet\". Notably, the video was also a production of Illustra Media, which has been identified as a front for a creationist production company. Upon further review, the Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History determined that the content of the video was inconsistent with the scientific research of the institution. They therefore refunded the $16,000, clearly denied any endorsement of the content of the video or of the Discovery Institute, and allowed the film to be shown in the museum as per the original agreement. Editorials have decried as naïve and negligent the Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History's failure to identify the Discovery Institute as a creationist organization, exclude the video with its review process in the first place, and identify the entire incident as an example of Wedge strategy in action.\n\nThe Center also funded research for the controversial book \"From Darwin to Hitler\" (2004) by Center fellow Richard Weikart. Weikart claims that Darwinism's impact on ethics and morality played a key role not only in the rise of eugenics, but also in euthanasia, infanticide, abortion, and racial extermination, all ultimately embraced by the Nazis.\n\nOn September 6, 2006, on the Center's \"Evolution News & Views\" blog, Discovery Institute staffer Casey Luskin published a post entitled \"Putting Wikipedia On Notice About Their Biased Anti-ID Intelligent Design Entries.\" In the post, Luskin reprinted a letter from a reader complaining that English Wikipedia's coverage of ID to be \"one sided\" and that pro-intelligent design editors were censored and attacked. Along with the letter, Luskin published an English Wikipedia email address for general information and urged readers \"to contact Wikipedia to express your feelings about the biased nature of the entries on intelligent design.\"\n\nMost criticism of the CSC and the Discovery Institute is that the Institute intentionally misrepresents many facts in the promoting of its agenda. A wide spectrum of critics level this charge; from educators, scientists and the Smithsonian Institution to individuals who oppose the teaching of creationism alongside science on ideological grounds. The following are most common areas in which the Institute is accused of being intentionally misleading:\n\n\nIntellectual dishonesty, in the form of misleading impressions created by the use of rhetoric, intentional ambiguity, and misrepresented evidence and a lack of rigour is one of the most common criticisms of the Center. It is alleged that its goal is to lead an unwary public to reach certain conclusions, and that many have been deceived as a result. Its critics, such as Eugenie Scott, Robert Pennock and Barbara Forrest, claim that the CSC knowingly misquotes scientists and other experts, deceptively omits contextual text through ellipsis, and makes unsupported amplifications of relationships and credentials.\n\nBarbara Forrest, author of \"\" and Glenn Branch say that the CSC uses academic credentials and affiliations opportunistically. In 2001 the Discovery Institute purchased advertisements in three national publications (the \"New York Review of Books\", the \"New Republic\" and the \"Weekly Standard\") to proclaim the adherence of approximately 100 scientists to the following statement: \"We are skeptical of claims for the ability of random mutation and natural selection to account for the complexity of life. Careful examination of the evidence for Darwinian theory should be encouraged.\"\n\nSuch statements commonly note the institutional affiliations of signatories for purposes of identification. But this statement strategically listed either the institution that granted a signatory's PhD or the institutions with which the individual is presently affiliated. Thus the institutions listed for Raymond G. Bohlin, Fazale Rana, and Jonathan Wells, for example, were the University of Texas, Ohio University, and the University of California, Berkeley, where they earned their degrees, rather than their current affiliations: Probe Ministries for Bohlin, the Reasons to Believe ministry for Rana, and the CSC for Wells. During controversies over evolution education in Georgia, New Mexico, Ohio, and Texas, similar lists of local scientists were circulated.\n\nIn another instance, the CSC frequently mentions the Nobel Prize in connection with Henry F. Schaefer, a CSC fellow, and chemist at the University of Georgia. Critics allege that CSC is inflating his reputation by constantly referring to him as a \"five-time nominee for the Nobel Prize\" since Nobel Prize nominations remain confidential for fifty years.\n\nAlongside the allegation that the Center intentionally misrepresents facts, Eugenie Scott and other critics say there is a noticeable conflict between what the CSC tells the public through the media and what they say before conservative Christian audiences. They contend that this is a studied and deliberate attempt at the obfuscation advocated by Wedge strategy author Phillip E. Johnson. When speaking to a mainstream audience and to the media, the institute portrays ID as a secular, scientific theory, that the teaching the controversy campaign does not promote ID, and that their agenda is not religiously motivated. But when speaking to what the Wedge Document calls their \"natural constituency, namely (conservative) Christians,\" the institute's officers express themselves in unambiguously religious language that contradicts these statements. This in the belief that they cannot afford to alienate their constituency and major funding sources, virtually all of which are conservative religious organizations and individuals such as Howard Ahmanson, Jr.\n\nCritics can also be found outside of the scientific community. Barry W. Lynn, executive director of Americans United for Separation of Church and State has voiced First Amendment concerns over Discovery Institute's activities. He described the approach of the teach the controversy movement's proponents as \"a disarming subterfuge designed to undermine solid evidence that all living things share a common ancestry\":\n\nIn 2004 Barbara Forrest and Paul R. Gross published \"Creationism's Trojan Horse: The Wedge of Intelligent Design\" documenting the history of the intelligent design movement and the Discovery Institute's Center for Science and Culture as well as critiquing ID research. Forrest and Gross referred to the group as an outgrowth of Johnson's religious mission and explored its plans for \"a rigorously God-centered view of creation, including a new 'science' based solidly on theism.\"\n\nThe Center is funded through the Discovery Institute, which is largely underwritten by grants and gifts from wealthy Christian fundamentalist conservative individuals and groups, such as Howard Ahmanson Jr., Philip F. Anschutz, Richard Mellon Scaife, and the Maclellan Foundation.\n\nPublished reports place the Discovery Institute's budget for ID-related programs at over $4 million per year. The Center's expenditures can be assumed to be substantial based on the scope and quality of the Center's extensive public relations campaigns, materials and contributions to local and regional ID and Teach the Controversy efforts.\n\nCSC director, Stephen C. Meyer, admits most of the Center's money comes from wealthy donors from the Christian right. Howard Ahmanson Jr., who provided $1.5 million in funding that established the Center, has said his goal is \"the total integration of biblical law into our lives.\" The Maclellan Foundation commits itself to \"the infallibility of the Scripture.\" Most Discovery Institute donors have also contributed significantly to the Bush campaign. Until 1995, Ahmanson sat on the board of the Christian reconstructionist Chalcedon Foundation, and funds many causes important to the Christian right, including Christian Reconstructionism.\n\n"}
{"id": "20796997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20796997", "title": "Cognitive Neuroscience Society", "text": "Cognitive Neuroscience Society\n\nThe Cognitive Neuroscience Society (CNS) is an international academic society interested in multi-disciplinary approaches to cognitive brain function. Drawing primarily from the biological and psychological sciences, society members are involved in cognitive neuroscience research that attempts to integrate our understanding of the brain and mind.\n\nFounded in 1994 by six scientists, Michael S. Gazzaniga (University of California, Santa Barbara), George R. Mangun (University of California, Davis), Steve Pinker (Harvard University), Patti Reuter-Lorenz (University of Michigan), Daniel Schacter (Harvard University), and Art Shimamura (University of California, Berkeley), the society brings together scientists from many different fields in its annual meeting held each spring, featuring a program of plenary speakers, symposia, posters, and special events, covering all aspects of cognitive neuroscience research. It also publishes the Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience.\n\n"}
{"id": "38739810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38739810", "title": "Confidence weighting", "text": "Confidence weighting\n\nConfidence weighting (CW) is concerned with measuring two variables: (1) what a respondent believes is a correct answer to a question and (2) what degree of certainty the respondent has toward the correctness of this belief. \n\n\"Confidence weighting\" when applied to a specific answer selection for a particular test or exam question is referred to in the literature from cognitive psychology as item-specific confidence, a term typically used by researchers who investigate metamemory or metacognition, comprehension monitoring, or feeling-of-knowing. Item-specific confidence is defined as calibrating the relationship between an objective performance of accuracy (e.g., a test answer selection) with the subjective measure of confidence, (e.g., a numeric value assigned to the selection). Studies on self-confidence and metacognition during test taking (e.g.,) have used item-specific confidence as a way to assess the accuracy and confidence underlying knowledge judgments.\n\nResearchers outside of the field of cognitive psychology have used confidence weighting as applied to item-specific judgments in assessing alternative conceptions of difficult concepts in high school biology and physics (e.g.,), developing and evaluating computerized adaptive testing (e.g.,), testing computerized assessments of learning and understanding (e.g.,), and developing and testing formative and summative classroom assessments (e.g.,). Confidence weighting is one of three components of the Risk Inclination Model.\n"}
{"id": "44848788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44848788", "title": "Costas Lapavitsas", "text": "Costas Lapavitsas\n\nCostas Lapavitsas () is a professor of economics at the School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London, and was elected as a member of the Hellenic Parliament for the left-wing Syriza party in the January 2015 general election. He subsequently defected to the Popular Unity in August 2015.\n\nIn 1982, he obtained a master's degree at the London School of Economics, followed in 1986 by a PhD at Birkbeck College, University of London. Since 1999 he has taught Economics at the School of Oriental and African Studies, first as a lecturer, and since 2008 as a professor.\n\nCostas Lapavitsas is known for his criticism of the modern Western financial system, particularly the Greek government-debt crisis, the European debt crisis and the European Union. He is also a columnist for the British newspaper \"The Guardian\". In 2007 he founded \"Research on Money and Finance\" (RMF) an \ninternational network of political economists focusing on money, finance and the evolution of contemporary capitalism.\n\nAs early as 2011, Lapavitsas, as well as some other Greek economists, has been highly eurosceptic, advocating for Greece abandoning the euro and returning to its former national currency, the drachma, as a response to the Greek government-debt crisis.\nOn 2 March 2015 Lapavitsas wrote in \"the Guardian\" that releasing Greek people from austerity and simultaneously avoiding a major falling-out with the eurozone is an impossible task for the new government of Greece.\n\nIn July 2015, Lapavitsas endorsed Jeremy Corbyn's campaign in the Labour Party leadership election. He said: \"If he succeeds - and I hope he does - he's exactly what Britain could do with, what the Labour Party could do with. I think that would be a very important move for the rest of Europe and for Greece. It would give a boost to the kind of thinking that would be necessary in the rest of Europe that is so sadly lacking at the moment. It would be the best thing to come out of Britain for Europe in a long time.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12229894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12229894", "title": "Deane G. Keller", "text": "Deane G. Keller\n\nDeane Galloway Keller (August 1, 1940 – January 4, 2005) was an American artist, academic and author. Keller was a draftsman, painter, sculptor, and teacher who instructed students in the visual arts for forty years, most notably in figure drawing and the artistic application of human anatomy. He is credited with explaining that \"drawing offers a unique record of an encounter with a culture, of experience transformed from fleeting moment to lasting resonance.\"\n\nHe was the son of Deane and Katherine Hall Keller.\n\nHe earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in Art History from Yale University, where he studied under his father, and a Master of Arts in Education from St. Joseph College in West Hartford, Connecticut. Additionally, Keller studied in Florence, Italy, with Nera Simi, and anatomy under David Rubins at the Herron School of Art in Indianapolis, Indiana.\n\nFor 25 years Keller served as a professor at the Lyme Academy College of Fine Arts. The head of the drawing department, in 2001 he was honored with the endowed Deane G. Keller Chair of Classical Drawing and Figurative Art, a position which he held until his death. Keller was also a member of the faculty of the New York Academy of Art, the Art Students League of New York, the Hartford Art School at the University of Hartford, and the Woodstock School of Art. He lectured on drawing and draftsmanship at the Yale Center for British Art, the Wadsworth Atheneum, and the Graduate School of Design at Harvard University.\n\nA portrait, landscape and still life painter, Keller was in his later years engaged in a series of large charcoal drawings of draped figures inspired by his travels to the Middle East.\n\nKeller authored numerous articles, and wrote two books.\n\nKeller's work is in included in a number of public and private collections.\n\n\nKeller believed that \"for some years the fine art of draftsmanship has suffered some eclipse because learning the craft of figure drawing has been only casually addressed and even discredited by some.\" His students are evidence to the contrary.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50149176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50149176", "title": "Diamond Reef System", "text": "Diamond Reef System\n\nDiamond Reef System is a trademarked diving curriculum, skill evaluation and safety program that utilizes the world's first portable, collapsible underwater obstacle course to simulate fragile reef or dive wreck structure for diver buoyancy skill training. A form of scuba Gymkhana, the program was designed by Pete Wallingford in 1988 to educate scuba instructors and scuba divers on how to safely teach and promote situational awareness, proper body positioning and safe interaction with coral reefs, fragile marine ecosystems and shipwrecks. The program was adopted by the Environmental Protection Agency, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, dive store operators and dive resort/charter operators worldwide.\n\nIn 1989, Pete Wallingford, an Educational Technologist from Seattle, Washington with a background in multi-store dive operations management, scuba diving instruction and commercial diving, initially started a marine conservation organization called \"The Friends of the Reef Foundation\" in response to customers of his dive stores complaining about the declining state of the coral reefs. For the international diving community he created a portable underwater obstacle course and adjunct curriculum for trim, proper weighting and buoyancy-control training, which was made of PVC pipe hoops shaped like diamonds, subsequently named Hover Stations. The program was adopted by the National Oceanic Atmospheric Administration in 1989. By 1991, the Diamond Reef System had developed into an instructional, marketing and dive industry promotional program under the company, Buoyancy Training Systems, Inc. The name Buoyancy Training Systems, Inc eventually was renamed Buoyancy Training Systems International, Inc. and presently Diamond Reef Systems. The Diamond Reef System was adopted into the Environmental Protection Agency's diving education program in 1991. It also received recognition from the ROLEX Corporation, Diving Equipment Manufacturers Association, University of Washington educational technology department and dive training program, Glen Egstrom Ph.D at the University of California at Los Angeles diving program, University of North Carolina diving program, Alex Brylske Ph.D a Professional Association of Dive Instructors' Course Director and Hillary Viders Ph.D at the National Association of Underwater Instructors. Permission was subsequently given by all diver certification agencies worldwide (to include PADI, NAUI, BSAC, CMAS, YMCA, SSI and GUE) to permit participating licensed and insured instructors and their respective Divemasters / Divecons to include the Diamond Reef Hover Stations and Challenge Courses in pool and open water training. This was due to the effectiveness of the training aids and the 'diver release' safety feature that was built into each Hover Station.\n\nThe US patents for the \"underwater buoyancy training obstacle course target hoop\" and the \"underwater buoyancy training obstacle course target set\" were issued to Peter A. Wallingford on August 25, 1992, patent numbers: 5141441, and 5141440 respectively. The usual validity of a US patent is 20 years from date of filing.\n\nThe underwater obstacle course kit for buoyancy training includes a detailed retailer/resort/charter boat operator and dive instructor manual, a set of seven collapsible, buoyant Hover Stations, each with a cord for tethering to a weight on the bottom, and a line holder to store the cord and adjust its operating length. Several alternative hoop geometries are covered in the patents (circular, triangular, octagonal and rectangular are mentioned), but the one recommended and generally used is a square in a diamond-shaped orientation, threaded with marine shock cord, tethered by a corner, allowing the open corner to float upwards as well as providing a 'safety release' or flexible opening to reduce the chance of diver entanglement. This is considered by the designer to be the most responsible and efficient shape considering the diver and equipment passing through or hovering within the Hover Station. It also minimizes the amount of material and work required for an effective target, and the diamond configuration has better underwater stability than the other configurations. Standard sized Diamond Reef Hover Stations include 5 each measuring sides and 2 each, size large measuring pipe lengths. These 'hoops' can be made from any suitable material, but diameter, schedule 40 (US) PVC pipe, elbows and end caps have been found the most effective.\n\nThe Diamond shaped target is assembled from straight tubular sections with open ends connected by right angle elbows and the unconnected ends sealed by plugs or caps. The lower two legs of each Hover Station feature two sets of 4, 1/4\" diameter through-holes to permit ease of descending with the buoyant Hover Stations. The assembly can be glued together (if student divers are closely supervised as the release feature is not as forgiving) or held together by internal shock cord for safety and convenience reasons; allowing dislocation of the joints for compact storage. The unconnected corner is generally deployed as the high point of the Hover Station and it allows a diver to escape upwards if unable to pass through the 'hoop'.\n\nIn the open water environment for ease of the complete or partial course set-up, an octagonal shaped 54 foot diameter 'Base Station' consisting of 8 separate environmentally safe 'concrete' anchors, connected with stainless cable can be situated at the appropriate depth depending on visibility, tidal flow and boat traffic. One anchor can be used for determining the proper weight requirements for each diver by practicing the simulated empty tank (SET) weighting procedure. Proper weighting and focused breathing are the foundations of demonstrating proper control at depth.\n\nAs little as one, two or as many Hover Stations that are available may be set up to include Slalom, escalator and rollercoaster obstacle course layouts using the kit components. These courses are intended to be set up for buoyancy training, mid-watermanship skill development and evaluation in relatively 'quiet' (slack tide), safe water with little or no current and more than fifteen feet of visibility. The recommended minimum depth of the water is , allowing for a 15 foot stop as the shallowest part of the obstacle course. A standard set comprises seven Hover Stations (5 standard size, 2 large, to be anchored at the beginning and end of the official Diamond Reef Challenge Course. Note, and not shown in the below diagrams, that the two large 48\" Hover Stations are positioned at the 15' depth to promote buddy teamwork at the beginning of the dive prior to descending to the bottom and the 3 minute 15' safety stop at the end of the no-decompression dive.\nThe system can be used for training and assessing trim and diver buoyancy control, non-destructive maneuvering (fin-tip awareness), dive buddy teamwork, dive manufactured equipment testing and slow motion hovering skills (namely Horizontal Hover-Stall maneuvers). The 15 minute Diamond Reef Challenge Course is staged utilizing all seven Hover Stations.\n\n"}
{"id": "6254672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6254672", "title": "Diet Coke and Mentos eruption", "text": "Diet Coke and Mentos eruption\n\nA soda geyser (alternatively Diet Coke and Mentos geyser or Mentos eruption) is a reaction between the carbonated beverage Diet Coke and Mentos mints that causes the beverage to spray out of its container. The gas released by the candies creates an eruption that pushes most of the liquid up and out of the bottle. Lee Marek and \"Marek's Kid Scientists\" were the first to demonstrate the experiment on television in 1999. Steve Spangler's televised demonstration of the eruption in 2005 went viral on YouTube, launching a chain of several other Diet Coke and Mentos experiment viral videos.\n\nIn the 1980s, Wint-O-Green Life Savers were used to create soda geysers. The tubes of candies were threaded onto a pipe cleaner and dropped into the soft drink to create a geyser. At the end of the 1990s, the manufacturer of Wintergreen Lifesavers increased the size of the mints and they no longer fit in the mouth of soda bottles. Science teachers found that Mint Mentos candies had the same effect when dropped into a bottle of any carbonated soft drink.\n\nLee Marek and \"Marek's Kid Scientists\" performed the Diet Coke and Mentos experiment on the \"Late Show with David Letterman\" in 1999. In March 2002, Steve Spangler, a science educator, did the demonstration on KUSA-TV, an NBC affiliate, in Denver, Colorado. The Diet Coke and Mentos geyser experiment became an internet sensation in September 2005. The experiment became a subject of the television show \"MythBusters\" in 2006. Spangler signed a licensing agreement with Perfetti Van Melle, the maker of Mentos, after inventing an apparatus aimed to make it easier to drop the Mentos into the bottle and produce a large soda geyser. Amazing Toys, Spangler's toy company, released the Geyser Tube toys in February 2007. In October 2010, a Guinness World Record of 2,865 simultaneous geysers was set at an event organized by Perfetti Van Melle at the SM Mall of Asia Complex, in Manila, Philippines. This record was afterwards beaten in November 2014 by another event organized by Perfetti Van Melle and Chupa Chups in León, Guanajuato, Mexico, where 4,334 Mentos and soda fountains were set off simultaneously.\n\nThe eruption is caused by a physical reaction, rather than any chemical reaction. The addition of the Mentos leads to the rapid nucleation of carbon dioxide gas bubbles precipitating out of solution: \n\nThe conversion of dissolved carbon dioxide to gaseous carbon dioxide forms rapidly expanding gas bubbles in the soda, which pushes the beverage contents out of the container. Gasses, in general, are more soluble in liquids at elevated pressures. Carbonated sodas contain elevated levels of carbon dioxide under pressure. The solution becomes supersaturated with carbon dioxide when the bottle is opened, and the pressure is released. Under these conditions, carbon dioxide begins to precipitate from solution, forming gas bubbles. \n\nNormally, this process is relatively slow, because the activation energy for this process is high. The activation energy for a process like bubble nucleation depends on where the bubble forms. It is highest for bubbles that form in the liquid itself (homogeneous nucleation), and lower if the bubble forms on some other surface (heterogeneous nucleation). When the pressure is released from a soda bottle, the bubbles tend to form on the sides of the bottle. But because they are smooth and clean, the activation energy is still relatively high, and the process is slow. The addition of other nucleation sites provides an alternative pathway for the reaction to occur with lower activation energy, much like a catalyst. For instance dropping grains of salt or sand into the solution lowers the activation energy, and increases the rate of carbon dioxide precipitation. \n\nThe physical characteristics of Mentos (surface roughness, easy dissolution into the liquid, etc.) have the effect of drastically reducing the activation energy for carbon dioxide bubble formation, so that the nucleation rate becomes exceedingly high. The activation energy for the release of carbon dioxide from Diet Coke by addition of Mentos has been found to be 25 kJ mol. This formation of gaseous carbon dioxide within the water, which due to hydrogen bonding and its high surface tension wants to maintain a connected matrix of molecules, causes the water to foam, ultimately generating the \"jet\"—or \"geyser\"—or eruption-like nature of the effusion. The foaming is aided by the presence of food additives such as potassium benzoate, aspartame, sugars, and flavorings in Diet Coke, and gelatin and gum arabic in the Mentos candy, all which influence the degree to which water can foam.\n\nThe nucleation reaction can start with any heterogeneous surface, such as rock salt, but Mentos have been found to work better than most. Tonya Coffey, a physicist at Appalachian State University, found that the aspartame in diet drinks lowers the surface tension in the water and causes a bigger reaction, but that caffeine does not accelerate the process. It has also been shown that a wide variety of beverage additives such as sugars, citric acid, and natural flavors can also enhance fountain heights. In some cases, dissolved solids that increase the surface tension of water (such as sugars) also increase fountain heights. These results suggest that additives serve to enhance geyser heights not by decreasing surface tension, but rather by decreasing bubble coalescence. Decreased bubble coalescence leads to smaller bubble sizes and greater foaming ability in water. Thus, the geyser reaction will still work even using sugared drinks, but diet is commonly used both for the sake of a larger geyser as well as to avoid having to clean up a sugary soda mess.\n\n"}
{"id": "7637725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7637725", "title": "Digistar Users Group", "text": "Digistar Users Group\n\nDigistar Users Group (DUG) is an international association of facilities that own Evans & Sutherland (E&S) Digistar systems.\n\nThe Digistar Users Group began in the mid-1980s as an informal gathering of planetarians. The first gathering took place in St. Louis, Missouri (USA). At the time, there were only five Digistar systems worldwide. Today, there are more than 250 Digistar-equipped planetaria on six continents. The current Digistar product line includes Digistar II, Digistar 3, Digistar 4 and Digistar 5, in various configurations appropriate for domes of nearly any size.\n\nMembership in the Digistar Users Group is voluntary; membership is restricted to facilities (such as science centers, planetariums, schools, universities and other organizations) that own or have a signed contract to purchase a Digistar system. Membership is by institution only. Institutions become members upon payment of annual membership dues.\n\nMembership in DUG is required in order to access the DUG show/model library, past newsletters, meeting notes, standards documents, charter and standing rules, and other content. Membership is currently $20(US) per year, payable to the DUG Treasurer. Evans & Sutherland pays the first year dues for new Digistar installations. After that time, it is the site's responsibility to maintain contact with the organization and keep membership active.\n\nThe Digistar Users Group Executive Committee has five positions: President, President Elect, Past President, Secretary, and Treasurer. While ownership of Digistar system is required for membership, the DUG organization operates independently of system manufacturer E&S. Elected positions may not be held by employees of Evans & Sutherland or commercial members, but any member of DUG may be appointed to a standing committee. The official DUG website lists current officers and posts.\n\nThe Digistar Users Group provides a forum for discussion regarding the Digistar computer graphics projection systems and issues of interest to the facilities that own Digistar systems. DUG also provides an avenue for exchange of sequences, models and other products created for Digistar environments. Digistar Users Group maintains a dialogue with Evans & Sutherland on matters of service, improvements and other areas of interest to Digistar users.\n\nDUG maintains an electronic library of content freely-shared among active DUG members, an on-line forum, and a secure website. A regular newsletter is published for members.\n\nOne of the primary activities of the Digistar Users Group is the annual conference, which offers the opportunity for users to meet, exchange production techniques, discuss planetarium operations concerns, interact with Evans & Sutherland representatives, learn system maintenance techniques, and suggest ideas for new Digistar features. Other activities include participation in IPS technology and standards efforts and ongoing member communication and peer assistance.\n\nToday there are Digistar systems in almost any venue imaginable, including planetariums, colleges, universities, K-12 schools, science centers, museums, entertainment destinations and other locations. On its website, E&S includes a partial list of Digitar Installations.\n\nDUG maintains a web site at digistardomes.org. Some parts of the website are open to the public while other parts are members only.\n"}
{"id": "2945233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2945233", "title": "Divyaa Unni", "text": "Divyaa Unni\n\nDivyaa Unni is a renowned classical dancer and teacher, who teaches various forms of dance like Bharathanatyam, Kuchipudi and Mohiniyattom. She is also an cine actress and has appeared in more that 50 Indian Movies made in Malayalam, Tamil, Telugu and Kannada languages.\n\nDivyaa Unni was born to Ponnethmadhatil Unnikrishnan and Kizhkemadhatil Uma Devi at Kochi, Kerala, India. Her mother Uma Devi, is a Sanskrit teacher and is the Head of Sanskrit Department; at Bhavans Vidya Mandir, Girinagar. She was awarded the National Award for Teachers (India), in the year 2013 by the President of India Shri Pranab Mukherjee. She has a sister, Vidhya Unni, who has worked as a lead in couple of Malayalam movies. Divyaa completed her schooling in Bhavan's Vidya Mandir, Girinagar. She graduated with a bachelor's degree in Communicative English from St. Teresa's College, Ernakulam. Divyaa is related (cousin) to Malayalam actress Meera Nandan and Remya Nambeesan.\n\nDivyaa has acted as a lead in over 50 films in Malayalam, Tamil, Telugu and Kannada and has appeared in films like \"Pranayavarnangal\" and Bharathan's last movie \"Churam\".\n\nAs a child, Divyaa got her first break in the film \"Nee Ethra Dhanya\" when she was a student in second grade. It was followed by \"Pookalam Varavayi\" directed by Kamal and \"Oh Faby\" by Srikuttan. She also did a TV serial \"Iniyonnu Vishramikkatte\" directed by Vinayan.\n\nDivyaa's first feature film as a lead actress was \"Kalyana Sowgandhigam\"  with actors like Dileep and Kalabhavan Mani in the lead roles - one she did when she was fourteen; studying in the tenth grade. Subsequently, she worked with the actors Mohanlal, Mammootty, Suresh Gopi and Jayaram and directors Bharathan; I V Sasi; Sibi Malayil and Lohithadas.\n\nDivyaa started her Bharatanatyam dance training at the age of three, thereafter she was trained in Kuchipudi, and Mohiniyattam. Subsequently, Divyaa Unni was crowned, in 1990 and 1991, <nowiki>\"Kalathilakom\"</nowiki> in Kerala School Kalolsavam statewide competitions. On India's premier Television Channel Doordarshan, she has presented a variety of Indian dance art-forms to such as Bharatanatyam, Kuchipudi, Mohiniyattam, and Indian folk dance. She continues to perform at various Indian dance festivals in India and international stages throughout North America, Europe and Persian Gulf countries.\n\nShe has received many awards including the Aravindaksha Memorial Award – the \"Abhinaya Tilaka Puraskaram\" for the best state dance performance.\n\nIn the pursuit of promoting Indian culture in the West, Divyaa is developing the artistic talents of young children in the United States, where she currently resides. With this goal, she is currently the Director of \"Sreepadam School of Arts\" in Houston, Texas, United States.\n"}
{"id": "14689477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14689477", "title": "Dolf Rieser", "text": "Dolf Rieser\n\nDolf Rieser (1898–1983) was a South Africa painter, printmaker, and teacher.\n\nDolf Rieser was born in King William's Town, South Africa, and educated in Germany and Switzerland. In 1917, he studied at École Polytechnique, Zürich, obtaining a diploma in agricultural engineering, then from 1918-22 obtained a doctorate in biological science at the University of Lausanne. In 1923, he researched science at Munich University, while studying art with Hans Hoffman. Rieser studied at \"Atelier 17\" in Paris with British surrealist painter and printmaker Stanley William Hayter (1901–88) and Polish engraver Józef Hecht (1891–1951). In 1926, Hayter had settled in Paris, where he enrolled at the Académie Julian and studied burin engraving privately with Hecht, who also taught Anthony Gross.\n\nDolf Rieser joined Hayter in 1928 after he began to take his own pupils and worked through 1940 at Atelier 17 (named in 1933, after the street number of Hayter’s studio in the Rue Campagne-Première). The signature of the workshop was its democratic structure, breaking with the traditional hierarchic French engraving studios by insisting on a cooperative approach to labour and technical discoveries. In 1929 Hayter was introduced to Surrealism by Yves Tanguy and André Masson, together with other Surrealists (including Picasso, Miró, Arp, Tanguy, Giacometti, Ernst, Trevelyan, Peterdi and Rieser), associated with Atelier 17. He organized portfolios of prints to raise funds for the Spanish cause, (including Solidarité (Paris, 1938), a portfolio of seven prints, one of them by Picasso), and Kandinsky contributed to the Steven Spender and Atelier 17 Album “Fraternité” to raise money for unfortunate children orphaned by the Spanish Civil War. Stephen Spender's poem was both in English and with a French translation by Louis Aragon, was accompanied by a group of etchings by Kandinsky, Miro, Hayter, Hecht, Buckland-Wright, Husband, Mead, Rieser and Varas.\n\nHe moved to England to join the war effort in 1940, and in 1945, newly married, he settled back to civilian life, lecturing in biology, liberal studies and art, while also giving private lessons in printmaking. In 1960, he was invited to Cape Town and Johannesburg Universities to lecture on that subject. During the 1960s, Rieser pioneered printing on translucent fibre-glass panels and laminates. He also worked on a range of applied prints on scarves for Liberty. A member of the Royal Society of Painter-Etchers, he introduced colour intaglio to post-war Britain. He took part in group shows widely throughout Europe and America, including Peggy Guggenheim's Gallery, 1939; Atelier 17 in New York and San Francisco, 1954. His solo shows were international, including Galerie Bonjean, Paris, 1936; Zwemmer Gallery, 1956; ICA 1966, Lumley Cazalet, 1968; and David Paul Gallery, Chichester 1979. The Victoria & Albert Museum, Imperial War Museum, the Arts Council UK, National Gallery of Canada and New York Public Library hold his work.\n\n"}
{"id": "26694387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26694387", "title": "Emotional literacy", "text": "Emotional literacy\n\nThe term emotional literacy has often been used in parallel to, and sometimes interchangeably with, the term emotional intelligence. However, there are important differences between the two. Emotional literacy was noted as part of a project advocating humanistic education in the early 1970s. \n\nThe term was used extensively by Claude Steiner (1997) who says:\n\nEmotional literacy is made up of 'the ability to understand your emotions, the ability to listen to others and empathise with their emotions, and the ability to express emotions productively. To be emotionally literate is to be able to handle emotions in a way that improves your personal power and improves the quality of life around you. Emotional literacy improves relationships, creates loving possibilities between people, makes co-operative work possible, and facilitates the feeling of community.\n\nSteiner breaks emotional literacy into 5 parts:\n\nHaving its roots in counseling, it is a social definition that has interactions between people at its heart. According to Steiner emotional literacy is about understanding your feelings and those of others to facilitate relationships, including using dialogue and self-control to avoid negative arguments. The ability to be aware and read other people's feelings enables one to interact with them effectively so that powerful emotional situations can be handled in a skillful way. Steiner calls this \"emotional interactivity\". Steiner's model of emotional literacy is therefore primarily about dealing constructively with the emotional difficulties we experience to build a sound future. He believes that personal power can be increased and relationships transformed. The emphasis is on the individual, and as such encourages one to look inward rather than to the social setting in which an individual operates.\n\nIn Britain, the term 'emotional literacy' is often used and has developed, building on the work of Steiner and Goleman as a social construction – as opposed to the more individualistic 'emotional intelligence' with the attempts to measure it as if emotions were measurable in a relatively rational way. Educators did not like the way that 'emotional intelligence' focused so much on the individual and there were clear attempts to avoid the narrow EQ tests that were in use for two reasons:\n\nThe National Curriculum in England and Wales emphasized a range of cognitive skills that were controlled through exams. Educators saw the need to expand the range of skills that pupils required and were also concerned with social inclusion. The Labour Government provided an overarching rationale for this with its promotion of well-being. However, when the Department of Children, Schools and Families developed a scheme for schools – called the Social and Emotional Aspects of Learning (SEAL) – it was based on Goleman's definition of emotional intelligence. Hence any distinctions between the terms emotional intelligence and emotional literacy were blurred. Even so, key educators in Britain continued to use the term emotional literacy. Emotional literacy took on an aspect that was concern with personal growth. For example, the importance of developing relationships is, to a degree, in Weare's definition:\nThe ability to understand ourselves and other people, and in particular to be aware of, understand, and use information about the emotional states of ourselves and others with competence. It includes the ability to understand, express and manage our own emotions, and respond to the emotions of others, in ways that are helpful to ourselves and others.\nSimilarly, the organization Antidote defined emotional literacy as:\nthe practice of interacting with others in ways that build understanding of our own and others' emotions, then using this understanding to inform our actions.\nThese definitions acknowledge both the individual and other people and so inter-personal relationships and the need for dialogue are included. Sharp has taken a broad approach to emotional literacy in a Local Education Authority (LEA) where he considers its development is important for teachers as well as pupils.\n\nHowever, there was still an underlying assumption about the individual and how they develop as if they were culturally isolated and separate from factors such as religion and gender. Also, the development of emotional literacy was justified by arguing that its introduction would help to improve other factors such as behavior, attendance and academic achievement. Boler researched four of the emotional programs in America. She pointed out that the programs tended to view pupils as individuals who are in need of development through enabling them to control their impulses. This can mean that pupils are to become responsible for their own control and that other social factors can be ignored. It is possible that these programs can open the way for greater control of pupils with even their emotions being assessed.\nOn the one hand the development of emotional literacy programs can be seen as progressive, but on the other the focus seems quite inward, as there is little reference leading to any broader concept of social and political reform.\n\nIn the same way that Goleman discusses emotional intelligence educational programs, emotional literacy programs can also be more about coping with the social and political status quo in a caring, interactive and emotionally supportive environment than with any systematic attempt to move beyond it to social improvement.\n\nMatthews (2006) argues against the concept of 'emotional intelligence' and for a developed definition of 'emotional literacy'. His starting point is that all social and emotional interactions take place in a cultural context and that generally all emotions are felt because of interactions with other people.\nHe argues that a group may, for example, contain men and women and people from a range of ethnicities. One could judge a person's emotional literacy by observing what they brought to the situation, the way they interacted and the degree to which they showed empathy, and, the recognition of \"self\" and \"others\". The way that one can reliably gauge the emotional literacy of a person is to see them interacting in a group and see how they behave towards other people of different genders, sexuality and social class. Hence, it makes little sense to talk about emotional literacy of a person as if it were separate from such factors – someone may be able to empathize with people of their own sex, but not different sexualities or religions. Also, one may think that they can empathize with the other sex, or another religion, but the other person may not agree with them. Indeed, the views of other people are essential in deciding upon such factors. There is always a social context and in any context power differentials operate. Any form of paper and pen test will only give access to what a person thinks, not to the important view of how others think. For example, many men (and women) would say that they were not sexist, yet a person from the opposite sex may not agree. A person cannot tell how well they, say, empathize, only other people tell them if they are. A manager may think they are self-confident, open and friendly, but others find him or her aggressive and bullying.\n\nHence, according to Matthews, emotional literacy is a social process that takes place in a social setting, is something that is never really achieved, and has to be seen in conjunction with others. This indicates that key components of emotional literacy, which is a continual process, that includes dialogue, acceptance of ambiguity and the ability to reflect. Judgments are made on a person's individual-in-group emotional literacy. He argues:\n\nOn this view emotional literacy is developed to help people understand themselves, others and the power connections between them. Matthews links emotional literacy to equality and social justice. Emotional literacy is not just to be \"nice\", but also to know when to stand up for viewpoints and fight for a case. It is not about more control over people, but less. As McIntosh and Style argue schools are always involved in social, emotional and power relations, yet \"power relations are a taboo subject in K-12 schooling and in the majority culture of the United States. Power relations are therefore little understood systemically. Students, however, learn about power by watching, by imitating, by avoidance of what they fear\".\n\nIn general, most of the criticisms of courses to promote pupils' emotional development have been directed at those that develop emotional intelligence. For example, there are the courses developed in the USA and Britain. The critiques of these courses include that:\n\nMatthews has tried to avoid some of the difficulties. For example, his strategies for the classroom mean that pupils only develop when, and in what areas, they are able. Emotional development between the genders has been the focus of research with a small reference to 'race'. But these are limited in strategies and do not tackle fully the critiques.\n\n"}
{"id": "1596589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1596589", "title": "Encino Man", "text": "Encino Man\n\nEncino Man (known as California Man in Europe and New Zealand) is a 1992 American comedy film directed by Les Mayfield and starring Brendan Fraser, Sean Astin and Pauly Shore. The plot revolves around two geeky teenagers from Encino, Los Angeles, California, played by Astin and Shore, who discover a caveman in Astin's backyard frozen in a block of ice. \n\nThe caveman, played by Fraser, has to learn to live in the 20th century. Along the way, he teaches them about life.\n\nDuring the first ice age, a caveman attempts to make fire with his girlfriend. An earthquake causes a cave-in that buries the two of them.\n\nThis segues into a present day Los Angeles earthquake that awakens average teenager Dave Morgan. He, along with his best friend Stoney, strives to attain popularity in high school, but comes off more as a reject and an outcast. Dave is in love with Robyn Sweeney, a sweet and attractive girl who has been his best friend since grade school, and, until she reached adolescence, had been rejected by Dave on several occasions. \n\nHer boyfriend, Matt Wilson, is a stereotypical jock and school bully, who is constantly responsible for making both Dave and Stoney the objects of ridicule by humiliating them in various ways, usually directly due to Dave's growing affections toward Robyn.\n\nOne day, as Dave is digging a pool in his backyard, he comes across a chunk of ice that has the body of a man in it following an earthquake. They leave the ice block unattended in the garage and space heaters left on cause the ice to melt, releasing the caveman from the opening of the film. The caveman then encounters a garbage truck, which he misinterprets as a mammoth from his time, and television, which he discovers upon entering Dave's house. \n\nWhen the boys return home, they find hand paint covering the walls and the house is in disarray. Investigating a beeping smoke alarm, they discover the caveman in Dave's bedroom, attempting to start a fire \"Indian-style\" by rotating a stick in the center of a pile of kindling. At first, the caveman panics at the sight of them, but then Stoney quickly calms him by using the flame of a lighter to mesmerize him after he panics from the phone ringing. After bathing him and trimming him to look like an average teenager, Dave names him \"Link\" as in the missing link.\n\nThey manage to fool Dave's family into thinking he is actually an Estonian exchange student sent to live with them, and enroll him in school where Link's bizarre behavior and supreme athletic skills shoot Dave and Stoney to popularity by association, allowing Dave to get closer to Robyn, to Matt's chagrin. \n\nIt soon becomes apparent that Stoney's bizarre attitude is having an effect on Link's actions and speech, which causes a rift between Dave and Stoney and after a fight with Matt at a skating rink, as well as an attraction developing between Robyn and Link. During a school field trip to a natural history museum, Link gets upset realizing that the cavepeople he knew are all dead and the gravity of his situation, but Stoney and Dave console Link that he is not without friends in this time, causing the trio to make a pact. Dave tries to send Link away, but a fight between him and Stoney cause Link to come running back. Stoney and Dave then make up. \n\nOn prom night, Link is a hit at the party with Robyn as his date while Dave stays in for the evening. Matt breaks into Dave's bedroom and steals photographic evidence that Link is a caveman. As Dave and Stoney go after Matt and his friends, another earthquake happens. At the prom, Matt's plan to uncover the \"freak\" backfires as the information instead makes Link even more popular. Dave and Robyn make up, and the three boys lead the entire prom in an impromptu caveman-like dance.\n\nAfter the prom, the students attend Dave's house for a pool party where Dave and Robyn kiss. Meanwhile, Stoney and Link follow clues similar to when they found him ranging from breast prints on the slider and paint covering the walls. They follow the muddy footprints to the bathroom and discover a beautiful cavewoman in the bathtub who turns out to be Link's girlfriend from the beginning of the film. He joins her in the bathtub as Stoney cheers them on and embraces her happily as she is also made to look like a modern human.\n\n\n\"Encino Man\" is directed by Les Mayfield, a veteran of behind the scenes promotional documentaries, making his feature film debut. The film was shot in just thirty three days in the end of 1991, which was considered a short schedule for a comedy.\n\nPauly Shore was known for his show \"Totally Pauly\" on MTV and Disney expected this would bring an existing audience to the film. The film tested well with teen audiences, and Mayfield thanked \"Wayne's World\" which came out a while before \"Encino Man\" for showing a comedy aimed at this demographic could do well.\nCostume designer Marie France decided not to buy clothes; she instead custom made the wardrobe for Stoney's and Link's characters. For Shore, she took his own unusual style and gave it a younger look. For Fraser, who stands at a height of 6' 3\", it was a matter of practicality, easier than trying to find the sizes needed, and she dressed him in baggy knee length shorts and oversized T shirts.\n\nThe film received mostly negative reviews from critics. It holds a score of 15% on film review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes based on reviews from 34 critics, with an average rating of 3.1/10. The website's critical consensus reads, \"\"Encino Man\" isn't the first unabashedly silly comedy to embrace its stupidity and amass a cult following, but whether or not it works for you will largely be determined by your tolerance for Pauly Shore.\"\nDespite the negative critical response, the film was a box office success. The film took in $9,866,120 in its opening weekend coming 4th at the box office. The film went on to earn a total of $40,693,477 at the North American box office. The film was released in the United Kingdom on September 25, 1992, titled \"California Man\", and opened on #5.\nPauly Shore's performance in \"Encino Man\" won him the Razzie Award for Worst New Star.\n\nLink, again played by Fraser, makes a cameo appearance in the film \"Son-in-Law\" (1993), which also stars Pauly Shore. Fraser also briefly appears as a soldier with the name \"Link\" on his fatigues in \"In the Army Now\" starring Shore.\n\nIn Evan Wright's book about the 2003 invasion of Iraq, \"Generation Kill\", the US Marine company commander is nicknamed Encino Man, supposedly for his incompetence. In the 2008 HBO miniseries of adaptation of the book the officer is played by Brian Patrick Wade. The \"South Park\" episode, \"Prehistoric Ice Man\" (1999), was a parody of the film, wherein the boys find a man that has been frozen in ice since 1996. \n\n"}
{"id": "24510141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24510141", "title": "Eugene Pandala", "text": "Eugene Pandala\n\nEugene Pandala is an Indian architect, known for building with values of environmental sustainability.\n\nPandala studied for a Masters in Urban Design at the School of Planning and Architecture, New Delhi. He had his Fellowship in Heritage Conservation at University of York and at Fort Brockhurst English Heritage Training Centre in the U.K. He was the founding head of the second school of Architecture in Kerala (1985) located at kollam where he spent educating and researching on traditional building technologies of India.\n\nPandala while studying at Delhi School of Planning and Architecture met the legendary architect Hassan Fathy, and was inspired to build with mud. As a nature lover, and cultural heritage conservation activist, he designs buildings with natural materials, landscapes with biodiversity conservation, and native vegetation, preferring interesting organic forms. Pandala built his first mud house in Kollam in 1996, comprising 2,500 sq. ft. of building, bringing him to the public's attention.\n\nHis unique Architecture style paved way to many awards, and recognition. In 2011, Lalith Kala Academy awarded him the first Laurie Baker award (The Hindu The Sunday, 30 January 2011). The Designer of the year Award given by Inside Outside design magazine in 2007 (Kerala artist retreat bags best eco-friendly design award Business Standard Sunday, 25 March 2012) was for eco friendly design. His heritage Conservation project in East Fort Trivandrum was chosen for a commendation award by Inside Outside magazine in 2004. In 1999 for one of his residential building built with mud \"Bodhi\", Pandala was given, a Commendation award, by J.K. Foundations, Architect of the year award.\n\nFort Cochin Heritage conservation project, Trivandrum East Fort Conservation projects, is often cited as good examples of Kerala heritage conservation initiatives. This was led by Eugene Pandala’s conservation team enabling the State Government to win the PATA award.\nSustainable architecture/Green buildings is a field where Pandala has excelled. His Tsunami rehabilitation project for Malayala Manorama and buildings for hospitality industries receives wide acclaim due to its interwoven complicity with nature.\n\nHe was a keynote speaker at the 361 degree conference 2016 held at Nehru centre in Mumbai.\n\nIn March 2016, British council hosted Pandala for their Great Talk Series in Mumbay and at Pune.\n\nThe need for Affordable Sustainable housing for the masses were debated in Shashwat - a publication of the green certification wing of Government of India 'Griha' http://www.grihaindia.org/files/shashwat/issue4_2017/mobile/index.html#p=105\n\nEarth resort, Banasura Hill Resort, Wayanad, Kerala - 20,000 sq ft, 31 room resort.\n\nThe Raviz, Kollam, Kerala - 94 room resort.\n\nRevathy Kala Mandir, Trivandrum, Kerala - A Film Academy.\n\nBODHI was built in 1996. This mud house is an example of sustainable architecture using natural materials and was extremely comfortable and environment friendly.\n\nOWIYUM - A work and living space for Indian & German artist at Marayoor, Keeping the built foot print as small as possible and not effecting the ecosystem strictly.\n\nPazasi Raja’s Tomb – a magnificent tribute to the great king of the bygone era of Kerala.\n\nSarai at Toria, Madhya Pradesh. A uniquely designed accommodation is situated on a beautiful riverside site, near Khajuraho in Madhya Pradesh, India. A beautiful place, rich in history and natural beauty .\n\n"}
{"id": "1094802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1094802", "title": "Foreign language", "text": "Foreign language\n\nA foreign language is a language originally from another country than the speaker. However, there must a be defined distinction between foreign and second language. It is also a language not spoken in the native country of the person referred to, i.e., an English speaker living in Spain can say that Spanish is a foreign language to him or her. These two characterisations do not exhaust the possible definitions, however, and the label is occasionally applied in ways that are variously misleading or factually inaccurate. \n\nSome children learn more than one language from birth or from a very young age: they are bilingual or multilingual. These children can be said to have two, three or more mother tongues: neither language is foreign to that child, even if one language is a foreign language for the vast majority of people in the child's birth country. For example, a child learning English from his English father and Irish at school in Ireland can speak both English and Irish, but neither is a foreign language to him. This is common in countries such as India, South Africa, or Canada due to these countries having multiple official languages.\n\nIn general, it is believed that children have advantage to learning a foreign language over adults. However, there are studies which have shown adult students are better at foreign language learning than child students. It is because adults have pre-existing knowledge of how grammar works, and a superior ability of memorizing vocabulary.\n\nMost schools around the world teach at least one foreign language and most colleges and high schools require foreign language before graduation. By 1998 nearly all pupils in Europe studied at least one foreign language as part of their compulsory education, the only exception being Ireland, where primary and secondary schoolchildren learn both Irish and English, but neither is considered a foreign language (although Irish pupils do study a third European language). On average in Europe, at the start of foreign language teaching, learners have lessons for three to four hours a week. Compulsory lessons in a foreign language normally start at the end of primary school or the start of secondary school. In Luxembourg, Norway and Malta, however, the first foreign language is studied at age six, and in Flanders at age 10. In Wales, all children are taught Welsh from the first year of primary school. The Welsh language is also compulsory up to the age of 16, although a formal GCSE qualification is optional.\n\nIn some countries, learners have lessons taken entirely in a foreign language: for example, more than half of European countries with a minority/regional language community use partial immersion to teach both the minority and the state language. This method is also highly used in Canada, wherein anglophone students spend all of most of their lessons learning the materials in French.\n\nIn 1995, the European Commission's White Paper on Education and Training emphasised the importance of schoolchildren learning at least two foreign languages before upper secondary education. The Lisbon Summit of 2000 defined languages as one of the five key skills.\n\nDespite the high rate of foreign language teaching in schools, the number of adults claiming to speak a foreign language is generally lower than might be expected. This is particularly true of native English speakers: in 2004 a British survey showed that only one in 10 UK workers could speak a foreign language and less than 5% could count to 20 in a second language. In 2001, a European Commission survey found that 65.9% of people in the UK spoke only their native tongue.\n\nSince the 1990s, the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages has tried to standardise the learning of languages across Europe.\n\nAn article from \"The Atlantic\" claims that only 1 percent of the adults within the American population consider themselves proficient in speaking a foreign language. This is in stark contrast to many other countries, where the percentage is much higher. Even though there are many benefits that come with learning a foreign language, schools across the United States continue to cut foreign language from their budgets.\n\nIn recent years, computer-assisted language learning has been integrated into foreign language education and computer programs with varying levels of interactional relationship between computer and the language learner have been developed. Language learning aids such as foreign language writing aid and foreign language reading aid, targeted at the specific language skills of foreign language learners, are also alternative instruments available for foreign language learners.\n\nIn 2004, a report by the Michel Thomas Language Centre in the United Kingdom suggested that speaking a second language could increase an average worker's salary by £3000 (€3 300) a year, or £145 000 (€159 000) in a lifetime. Further results showed that nine out of 10 British companies thought their businesses could benefit from better language skills. Studies show that a person that is bilingual or multilingual, can make a greater salary than a computer programmer or engineer because they can use their abilities in foreign language to obtain success in a wide range of career paths. Also due to the increase of international population, a multilingual person can easily communicate and translate to perspective viewers.\n\nAlso in 2004, a study by University College London (UCL) examined the brains of 105 people who could speak more than one language. The study found that people who learned a second language when younger had denser grey matter than those who learned one later. Grey matter is an area of the brain where information is most efficiently processed, due to the function of specific nerve cells.\n\nA series of experiments on more than 300 people from the U.S. and Korea found that thinking in a second language reduced deep-seated, misleading biases that unduly influence how risks and benefits are perceived.\n\nOther research has shown that early exposure to a second language increases divergent thinking strategies, helping not only in language-related tasks, but also in areas such as math. Children early on have different ways of expressing themselves, such that they better understand there is more than one way to look at a problem and that there is more than one solution.\n\nThere are no major differences in different definitions that different writers have provided about foreign language and second language, although not many of them differentiate these two terms. The distinction between acronyms TESL (Teaching of English as a Second Language) and TEFL (Teaching of English as a Foreign Language) shows some attention of different researchers to the concepts of foreign language and second language.\n\nRichards and Schmidt (2002: 472) provide this information about second language:\n\n\"In a broad sense, any language learned after one has learnt one's native language [is called second language]. However, when contrasted with foreign language, the term refers more narrowly to a language that plays a major role in a particular country or region though it may not be the first language of many people who use it. For example, the learning of English by immigrants in the US or the learning of Catalan by speakers of Spanish in Catalonia (an autonomous region of Spain) are cases of second (not foreign) language learning, because those languages are necessary for survival in those societies. English is also a second language for many people in countries like Nigeria, India, Singapore and the Philippines (plus Spanish), because English fulfils many important functions in those countries (including the business of education and government) and Learning English is necessary to be successful within that context. (Some people in these countries however may acquire English as a first language, if it is the main language used at home).\"\n\nThey also define a \"foreign language\" as a language which is not the native language of large numbers of people in a particular country of region, is not used as a medium of instruction in schools and is not widely used as a medium of communication in government, media, etc. They note that foreign languages are typically taught as school subjects for the purpose of communicating with foreigners or for reading printed materials in the language (Richards and Schmidt, 2002: 206).\n\nCrystal (2003) notes that \"first language\" is distinguishable from \"second language\" (a language other than one's mother-tongue used for a special purpose, e.g. for education, government) distinguishable in turn from \"foreign language\" (where no such special status is implied). He also notes that the distinction between the latter two is not universally recognised (especially not in the USA).\n\nStern (1983) believes that there is today consensus that a necessary distinction is to be made between a non-native language learnt and used within one country to which the term \"second language\" has been applied and a non-native language learnt and used with reference to a speech community outside national or territorial boundaries to which the term \"foreign language\" is commonly given. He argues that while the distinction between 'second' and 'foreign' has a certain justification, it is perhaps less important than it has sometimes been made out to be and it may be misleading. He notes that the distinction became popular after World War II in international organisations, such as UNESCO, in order to meet nationalist susceptibilities in discussions on language questions.\nFasold and Connor-Linton (2006), Falk (1978) and Hudson (2000) provide similar definitions for the two terms. O'Grady \"et al.\" (1384) don't mention the exact terms 'second' and 'foreign' language, but they emphasise on the role of learning environment in teaching non-native languages.\n\nSo, the distinction between 'second language' and 'foreign language' is a geographical and environmental distinction. We can mention 'second language situation' and 'foreign language situation' as two situations of learning, not two kinds of languages. So a foreign language is not always a foreign language and a second language is not always a second language. Since the distinction is geographical, the two situations (learning second language and learning foreign language) can be considered as a continuum. At one extreme, we may find learners learning without external help and direction purely from exposure to the non-native language through living in the target language environment (second language learning) and at the other we find learners learning the non-native language exclusively in language teaching setting and classrooms (foreign language learning).\n\nA 'second language' usually has official status or a recognised function within a country which a foreign language has not and furthermore these two different situations frequently have important consequences to which attention has been drawn in some books. For example, Persian is a second language for Kurdish people, but not vice versa, because there is no Kurdish environment for Persian speakers who are learning Kurdish. On the other hand, English is a foreign language for both groups, because there is no contact between Kurdish and Persian people with English people. However, if an Iranian person goes to USA, then English becomes a second language for him or her. Thus British immigrants to Iran learn Persian as a second language and Persian speakers study English in Britain as a second language. In Kermanshah or Kurdistan, we can speak of learning Kurdish by Persian speakers as a second rather than foreign language.\n\nThe purposes of second language learning are often different from foreign language learning. Second language is needed for full participation in the political and economic life of the nation, because it is frequently the official language or one of two or more recognised languages. It may be the language needed for education. Among the purposes of foreign language learning are traveling abroad, communication with native speakers, reading foreign literature or scientific and technical works.\n\nThere are some major differences between foreign and second language teaching and learning. In second language learning, one can receive input for learning both inside and outside the classroom. He or she can readily put to use what is learned, as can the child learning its first language, so lots of naturalistic practice is possible.\n\nSecond language learners are usually more successful in developing non-native language skills and what is learned may be essential for getting along in the community, so motivation is stronger.\n\nAcculturation that is a main aspect of learning a language is easier in the case of second language learning and the emotional role of language (as opposed to communicational role) is easier to use for learners.\n\nThe major characteristics of the planned condition of the classroom in the case of foreign language learning as opposed to natural conditions of second language learning are:\n\n\nThere are some other issues in teaching and learning foreign language and second language including the type of motivation and the distinction between 'learning' and 'acquisition' that I will discuss them in separate parts.\n\nThere is often a distinction between acquisition and learning in linguistic and pedagogic literature. Children are described as 'acquiring' their native language, where there is no previous information and knowledge in their mind. On the other hand, adults are said to 'learn' a non-native language. Acquisition is viewed as a natural, unconscious, untaught and probably unteachable process, while learning is somewhat artificial, usually conscious and possibly dependent on instruction and study.\n\nThe distinction between acquisition and learning can be used in this discussion, because the general conditions in the case of second language offer opportunities for acquisition, because it is informal, free, undirected or naturalistic. On the other hand, educational treatment in the case of foreign language may offer opportunities mainly for learning.\n\nNevertheless, acquisition can take place in the case of foreign language learning and learning can take place in the case of second language learning. For example, immigrants to the US can attend language teaching classes in the target language environment. On the other hand, foreign language learners that are far from target language environment can sometimes acquire some points for example by listening to foreign radio, reading literature etc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17258927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17258927", "title": "Foundation of Technical Education", "text": "Foundation of Technical Education\n\nThe Foundation of Technical Education (FTE) is an Iraqi administrative organization belonging to Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research (Iraq), it is responsible for the Iraqi Technical Colleges and Institutes.\n\n"}
{"id": "22931476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22931476", "title": "Gregorio Di Leo", "text": "Gregorio Di Leo\n\nGregorio Di Leo (born July 12, 1983 in Palermo, Italy) is an entrepreneur, psychologist and professional Italian Kickboxing World Champion in Points Fighting. He is the co-founder of Wyde, a leadership school based in Milan, Italy.\n\nDi Leo was born on July 12, 1983 in Palermo, Italy. Di Leo holds a master's degree in Organizational and Social Psychology from the University of Padua, an executive program at Wharton Business School and Master in Sport Psychology. He is also a trained life coach from the Coaching Training Institute London.\n\nGregorio Di Leo's work in focused on improving people's lives inside and outside organizations. In 2011, he started focusing on the topic of courage, working to define the organizational conditions that foster courageous behavior and the personal meta-skills needed to do so.\n\nFrom 2011 to 2017, he has served in various roles including, director of the faculty at ISTUD Foundation and Senior HR Consultant at Randstad.\n\nIn 2017, along with Jlenia Ermacora, Di Leo co-founded the Wyde leadership school, with the main goal being to design organizational development programs for companies and promote the concepts of the \"Wyde Organization\" (developed together with Giorgio Di Tullio).\n\nHe is a lecturer at the Tsinghua University in China and at LINK Community in Denmark.\n\nAt the age of 11, Di Leo started his competitive karate career in Italy. From 1995 to 2011, he has competed in W.A.K.O (World Association of Kick Boxing Organizations) at the -69 kg weight division under the Semi-contact discipline:\n\n\nGregorio Di Leo has been the one of the few European athletes capable of winning a team competition in the United States, together with Roberto Bellotti (Amerikick International, Atlantic City, 2005), and he is the only European athlete that has been able to win a race in Central America (Guatemala City, Great Maya Challenge, 2006).\n\nDi Leo is part of the Aikya Team, established by Giampaolo Calajòi, who was himself a Kickboxing World Champion and member of Team Bestfighters, founded by Italian national coach Gianfranco Rizzi. Gregorio Di Leo is a psychologist, who graduated at the University of Padova in 2006. He is a martial arts teacher, personal trainer, and human resources consultant. During his career, he has run several seminars in Kickboxing throughout Italy, Bulgaria, South Korea, the United States, and Norway.\n\nIn 2010, Di Leo created the \"Intensive Point Fight Training\" method. The goal of the program is to promote a global approach to human sport performance in Kickboxing.\nIn the same year, he took part in the inaugural SportAccord 2010 World Combat Games held in Beijing and won gold in the -74 kg category of Semi-contact Kickboxing.\nDi Leo is vice-president of Aikya Team and an alumnus of Giampaolo Calajò.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30342376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30342376", "title": "Helena Munktell", "text": "Helena Munktell\n\nHelena Mathilda Munktell (24 November 1852 – 10 September 1919) was a Swedish composer. She was born in Grycksbo, Dalarna, into a wealthy family, the youngest of nine children of Henry and Augusta Munktell. Her mother lived separately in Stockholm and after her father died, the family moved there.\n\nMunktell studied music at the Stockholm Conservatory with , , Ludwig Norman and , and then in Vienna with Julius Epstein. She studied both piano and voice, and continued her education in composition in Paris with Benjamin Godard and Vincent d'Indy. Her debut as a composer took place in Sweden in 1885. She suffered from eye disease and died at the age of 67 in Stockholm.\n\nMunktell composed for orchestra but tended to vocal, choral and operatic works. Selected compositions include:\n\nHer music has been recorded and issued on CD, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "18786196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18786196", "title": "HotChalk", "text": "HotChalk\n\nHotChalk is an education technology company that launched in September 2004. HotChalk runs an online community application designed for grade school teachers, students and parents. In August 2007, McGraw-Hill partnered with HotChalk to make McGraw-Hill training and certification tools available to HotChalk users. NBC partnered with HotChalk as well to distribute NBC news archives to supplement educational materials.\n\nEdward M. Fields is founder, chairman and CEO. Before establishing HotChalk, Fields was founder and CEO of ProductFactory. The HotChalk Media Group (formally HotChalk Network) comprises approximately 80 web sites.\n\nHotChalk was named 2008 Codie award finalist for \"Best Education Solution\" and won a 2007 Technology & Learning Award of Excellence for \"Teacher Resources.\"\nHotChalk was awarded \"Best in Class\" in Education Innovation Network by Skysong, the ASU Scottsdale Innovation Center.\n"}
{"id": "19359973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19359973", "title": "Indrani Rahman", "text": "Indrani Rahman\n\nIndrani Rahman (19 September 1930, Chennai – 5 February 1999, New York) was an Indian classical dancer, of Bharata Natyam, Kuchipudi, Kathakali and Odissi, which she popularised in the west, and later settled in New York in 1976.\n\nIn 1952, she won the Miss India pageant. Later, she joined her mother Ragini Devi's company. She popularised the Indian classical dance form, Odissi during her international tours. Indrani had received the Padma Shri in 1969 and the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award in the performing arts and also the Taraknath Das Award.\n\nIndrani Rahman was born in Chennai (then Madras), the daughter of Ramalal Balram Bajpai (1880–1962), sometime president of the Indo-American League, by his wife Ragini Devi (nee Esther Luella Sherman). Her father, Ramalal Bajpai, was of north Indian background, a chemist who went to the USA for higher education. Her he met and married Esther Luella Sherman, an American by birth. Born in Petoskey, Michigan in 1893, (died 1982), Esther embraced Hinduism upon her wedding and took the name 'Ragini Devi.'\n\nThe couple moved to India in the 1920s. Ramalal then took a job as Assistant Editor of \"Young India,\" the magazine founded by Lala Lajpat Rai. After Independence, he became the Consul General of India at New York, and president of the Indo-American League. Meanwhile, Ragini became a passionate proponent of Indian classical dance and devoted her life to their revival and nurture. This happened after a fateful meeting with the great \"rajadasi,\" (royal courtesan) Jetti Tayamma of Mysore, from whom she started learning Bharata Natyam. She then honed her dancing talents under the tutelage of Gauri Amma, a courtesan of Chennai. Ragini then became a celebrated dancer herself, and was among the most feted performers of the 1930s. Ragini also championed the revival of Kathakali during the same period.\n\nIndrani was born in Chennai to this couple and grew up in a mixed-race household. She was brought up to be uninhibited and independent by her American mother, who encouraged her to participate in beauty pageants. As one of very few participants from across the country who could be persuaded to contest the pageant, Indrani was crowned 'Miss India' in the year 1952. When she was a schoolgirl only fifteen years old, and still underage according to Indian law, she eloped with Habib Rahman, a world renowned architect, who, at thirty, was exactly twice her age.\n\nIndrani started learning dance in her mother's company, at age nine, and accompanied her as she travelled through, Americas, and Europe. Professionally, she first started with Bharata Natyam, having learnt the Pandanallur style of Bharata Natyam from Guru Chokkalingam Pillai (1893–1968) in the 1940s. Soon she was in Vijaywada, learning Kuchipudi from Korada Narsimha Rao with whom she later toured many parts of the world.\n\nIn 1947, Indrani attracted the attention of India's leading dance and art critic Dr. Charles Fabri, who later encouraged her to go to Orissa and learn the little-known classical dance form of Odissi, making her the first professional dancer to learn Odissi. After learning Odissi for three years, from Guru Sri Deba Prasad Das, she went on to popularise it, through performance in various parts of India and the world.\n\nIn 1952, although married, and with a child, she became the first Miss India, and went on to compete in the Miss Universe 1952 Pageant, held at Long Beach, California. Soon, she was travelling along with her mother and performing all over the world. In 1961, she was the first dancer presented on a national tour by the Asia Society, and also performed for US President John F. Kennedy and Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, during Nehru's official visit to Washington, D.C., and in the following years she also performed for Emperor Haile Selassie, Queen Elizabeth II, Mao Zedong, Nikita Khrushchev, and Fidel Castro. In 1976 she became a faculty member of the dance division at the Juilliard School at New York's Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, taught in various American universities, including Harvard, and spent her remaining two decades in the United States, touring extensively.\n\nShe married Habib Rahman (1915–1995), a well-known architect, in 1945, the couple had a son, artist, Ram Rahman, and a daughter, Sukanya Rahman (Wicks), who also danced with her mother and grandmother. Her grandsons are Wardreath Wicks and Habib Wicks.\n\nIndrani Rahman died on 5 February 1999 in Manhattan, New York.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41735523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41735523", "title": "Jennifer Mnookin", "text": "Jennifer Mnookin\n\nJennifer L. Mnookin is the Dean of UCLA School of Law. She is also the David G. Price and Dallas P. Price Professor of Law and the founding co-director of UCLA Law's Program on Understanding Law, Science and Evidence (PULSE@UCLA Law). She is an expert on evidence law, and has co-authored books, written articles and published op-eds on the subjects of expert and scientific evidence. On June 4, 2015, Mnookin was named the ninth dean in the history of UCLA School of Law.\n\nMnookin was born in 1967 in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and is the daughter of Robert Mnookin, the Samuel Williston Professor of Law at Harvard Law School, and Dale Mnookin. She grew up in Berkeley and Palo Alto, California, and attended Harvard College, where she earned her A.B. in 1988 and was an editor for The Harvard Crimson. She received her J.D. from Yale Law School in 1995 and holds a Ph.D. in the History and Sociology of Science and Technology from Massachusetts Institute of Technology.\n\nMnookin joined the faculty of the University of Virginia School of Law in 1998. In 2002-03 she was a visiting professor at Harvard Law School. She joined the faculty of UCLA School of Law in 2005. Mnookin served as Vice Dean for Faculty and Research (2007-09) and as Vice Dean for External Appointments and Intellectual Life (2012-13) before being named dean.\n\nHer scholarship focuses on the interconnections between evidence, science and technology, and legal and cultural ideas about proof and persuasion. She has written on topics ranging from the history of photographic evidence to the complexities of the Confrontation Clause of the Sixth Amendment with respect to expert evidence. She is a co-author of \"The New Wigmore, A Treatise on Evidence: Expert Evidence,\" and \"Modern Scientific Evidence: The Law and Science of Expert Testimony\". Much of her work has focused on the problems of forensic science evidence, especially pattern identification evidence like latent fingerprint identification. She has frequently commented to the press on forensic science and evidence issuesand has occasionally consulted or served as an expert witness on the scientific foundation of fingerprint evidence.\n\nHer scholarship on forensic science was cited extensively by the National Academy of Sciences' 2009 report. She is a member of the National Academy of Science's Committee on Science, Technology and the Law and is on the advisory board of the Electronic Privacy Information Center. She was the primary investigator for a National Institute of Justice project that sought to develop objective metrics for measuring the difficulty of fingerprint comparisons. Her work on the Confrontation Clause was cited and discussed by the Supreme Court of the United States in \"Williams v. Illinois\" (2012). In 2016, she co-chaired an advisory group to the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology, which issued a report on the reliability of forensic science used in the courtroom.\n\nIn her role as a law school administrator, Mnookin serves as a member of the steering committee of the Association of American Law Schools' Dean's Forum. Mnookin was named a member of the American Law Institute, a leading organization dedicated to improving and modernizing the law, in 2011.\n\nMnookin is married to Joshua Foa Dienstag, a professor of political science and law at UCLA. They have two children, Sophia and Isaac.\n"}
{"id": "12781939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12781939", "title": "Kohl McCormick Early Childhood Teaching Awards", "text": "Kohl McCormick Early Childhood Teaching Awards\n\nThe Kohl McCormick Early Childhood Teaching Awards honors five outstanding Chicago area early childhood educators each year. The selection process begins each fall with an open call for nominees. Each nominee must be a full-time Chicago early childhood teacher with at least five years experience with students eight years old or younger. They may work in preschools, home day care centers, childcare centers, Head Start programs, State Prekindergartens, and kindergarten through third-grade classrooms in public, private, and parochial schools. The awards have been restricted to teachers in Cook County in Illinois, but beginning in 2008, the honor will be extended to DuPage County as well. \n\nA committee of leaders in the field of early childhood education reviews all nominees and then conducts site visits to a select group of the nominees. From their observations, the committee members select a group of finalists. Five of those finalists are then chosen to represent the best of the field, following a final application process that includes additional site visits and interviews by fellows from the Kohl McCormick Academy of Outstanding Educators. The five award winners are honored at a June luncheon ceremony.\n\nEach winner receives:\n\n\nThe awards program seeks to raise public awareness of the importance of quality early childhood education and to raise the self-esteem of early childhood educators. As a result, the program also hopes to encourage better funding for early childhood education; encourage qualified candidates to enter the field; help in the retention of highly qualified teachers; and help parents to support their children’s learning. \n\nBegun in 1996, the awards are a joint project of the Dolores Kohl Education Foundation and the McCormick Tribune Foundation. All winners are admitted into membership in the Kohl McCormick Academy of Outstanding Educators. The academy also includes recipients of the Kohl International Teaching Awards, which were given from 1985 to 1994.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56651939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56651939", "title": "Krakow UNESCO City of Literature", "text": "Krakow UNESCO City of Literature\n\nKrakow UNESCO City of Literature is a City of Literature located in Krakow, Poland, as a member of the UNESCO Creative Cities Network. Krakow joined the UCCN on 21 October 2013 as the first Slavic and second non-English speaking city.. Krakow’s main objective as a UNESCO City of Literature is to develop and implement a program promoting literary heritage, popularize reading among its residents, and support the local book market. Krakow UNESCO City of Literature also functions as a coordinator for the Cities of Literature and a member of the UCCN Steering Committee.\n\nThe Krakow UNESCO City of Literature program is operated by the Krakow Festival Office.\n\nThe program followed by Krakow City of Literature involves activities and initiatives in the following 10 areas of development: \n\n\nKrakow UNESCO City of Literature hosts two large literary festivals, i.e. the Conrad Festival (the greatest Polish event of its type), and the Milosz Festival. Both festivals were in 2017 granted the EFFE Label which is awarded by the European Festivals Association to events of international rank and distinctive artistic quality that are characterized by high involvement of the local community.\n\nKrakow UNESCO City of Literature is involved in supporting young talents and literary debutants. Each year, during the Conrad Festival, the Conrad Award is awarded for the best literary debut. The “Promoters of Debuts” program has been developed in order to ensure funds for publishing houses to cover the cost of publication of debutant works. In addition, there is a UNESCO City of Literature Creative Writing Course which unites and educates young talents supervised by renowned and experienced writers.\n\nRead PL! is a project created in cooperation with the Woblink.com e-book platform to promote reading through permitting free access to electronic versions of new book arrivals and bestsellers. In public places (mostly at bus/tram stops and in schools) the organisers post posters with QR codes which can be scanned with the Woblink application to offer free access to selected books.\n\nWithin the City Codes project, the benches in the Krakow Planty Park have been marked with special tablets with the names of writers who have been important for the city of Krakow, together with QR codes that refer to websites with fragments of texts by specific authors, as well as their Polish and English audio versions.\n\nDuring each first week of month, poems written by authors connected with other Cities of Literature – Dublin, Edinburg, Iowa City, Melbourne, Norwich and Reykjavik – were displayed on the wall of the Potocki Family Tenement House at 20 Main Market Square in 2014 and 2015.\n\nKrakow UNESCO City of Literature organises cyclic literary walks whereby readers led by their guides have an opportunity to see buildings and places that used to be or that are important for the most outstanding writers living in Krakow. Several literary routes have been delineated so far within the project, including those dedicated to Wisława Szymborska, Czesław Miłosz, Stanisław Lem, Stanisław Wyspiański or Joseph Conrad.\n\nThe project focuses on the cooperation with stationary bookstores in Krakow. It has been developed for the sake of readers, book lovers, and booksellers. Its task is to support the Krakow book market through the integration, coordination and implementation of the rich program of cultural events in Krakow stationary bookstores. The project is to equip booksellers with additional tools and promotion methods, to enrich their cultural offer, and build permanent relationships with readers.\n\nThe Krakow Book Fair is a cyclic event that promotes the idea of second-hand book circulation. It is held once in every several weeks at the St. Mary Magdalene Square in Krakow, where a dozen or so of Krakow antiquarians and second-hand booksellers put up their stands and present their offer. The fair is always accompanied by discussions, literary meetings, and open-air shows.\n\nIndependent Bookstore Festival is a project implemented in bookstores by the Copernicus Foundation under the patronage of Krakow UNESCO City of Literature. The Festival is a year-round series of events organised by booksellers for all readers who want to talk with one another about books.\n\nThe project aims at promoting bookstores as cultural centres and places where social ties begin. Read locally promotes most unique bookstores that carry out unique, proprietary and bottom-up cultural activity. The project includes a series of interviews with the staff and with famous frequent visitors of most interesting bookstores in Krakow.\n\nThe action facilitates free book exchange. It is held cyclically at most interesting places that are connected with literature. \n\nICORN is an independent network of cities that offer a shelter to writers and artists persecuted for their creative work. It acts in defence of the freedom of expression and of democratic values. It also acts for international solidarity. The network’s member cities offer refuge to those who cannot freely live and create in their own homelands due to persecutions. ICORN’s main objective is to ensure asylum to as many persecuted writers and artists as possible, and to establish a permanent global network to defend the freedom of expression together with its sister organisations. Within the ICORN program in 2011-2017, Krakow hosted seven writers: Maria Amelie (born Madina Salamowa – North Ossetia, today in Norway), Kareem Amer (Egypt/today in Norway), Mostafa Zamaninij (Iran), Lawon Barszczewski (Belarus), Asli Erdogan (Turkey), Felix Kaputu (Congo), and Monem Mahjoub (Libya). While implementing the ICORN program, Krakow City of Literature cooperates with the Villa Decius Association that coordinates the residents’ stay and offers them space for their creative work.\n\nDrop the Mic is a project that aims at creating an international space for poets, writers, authors of texts, and organisers of festivals and poetry slams that support performative literature. The project is to popularize the idea of poetry slams and to integrate poets and other authors at international level through their joint participation in projects. So far, events within the Drop the Mic (meetings, workshops, poetry slams) have been held in Reykjavik (Iceland), Tartu (Estonia), Copenhagen (Dania), Heidelberg (Germany), and Krakow\n\nEngage! Young Producers is an international educational project aimed at promoting young people’s committed participation in literary and cultural life interpreted as a means to develop their critical thinking skills and better comprehension of multicultural reality. The project is addressed mainly to secondary school students (between 16 and 19 years of age), especially those with little access to culture, and to all local organisations and cultural institutions whose activity involves literature. Engage! is held simultaneously in several European cities (Barcelona, Norwich, Vaxjo, Krakow), and always with the support of secondary schools, libraries and cultural institutions that develop their own customized programs so as to best apply the general objectives of the complete Engage! project. Within the Engage! Young Producers project the Krakow Festival Office implements a yearly education program for secondary school students – Word for Word. Poetry is my language.\n\nThe residency program is addressed to writers and authors from the other UNESCO Cities of Literature. During their stipend stay in Krakow, residents have an opportunity to experience Krakow literary life, establish contacts with the local literary industry and writers. So far, Krakow has hosted Brynjar Jóhannesson from Reykjavik, Sarah Stewart from Edinburgh, and Sarah Herman from Norwich.<br>\n\n"}
{"id": "2681645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2681645", "title": "Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology", "text": "Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology\n\nKwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology (KNUST) is a university in Kumasi, Ashanti, Ghana. The Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology is the public university established in the country, as well as the largest university in Kumasi Metropolis and Ashanti. KNUST has its roots in the plans of the King Asantehene Agyeman Prempeh I to establish a university in Kumasi as part of his drive towards modernization of his Ashanti kingdom. This plan never came to fruition due to the clash between British empire expansion and the desire for King Prempeh I to preserve his Ashanti kingdom's independence.\n\nHowever, his younger brother and successor, King Asantehene Agyeman Prempeh II, upon ascending to the Golden Stool in 1935, continued with this vision. Events in the Gold Coast in the 1940s played into his hands. First there was the establishment of the University College of the Gold Coast. Second there were the 1948 riots and the consequent Watson Commission report which recommended that a university of sciences be established in Kumasi. Thus, in 1949, the dream of the Prempehs became a reality when building started on what was to be called the Kumasi College of Technology.\n\nThe Kumasi College of Technology offered admission to its first students to the engineering faculty in 1951 (they entered in 1952), and an Act of Parliament gave the university its legal basis as the Kumasi College of Technology in 1952. The nucleus of the college was formed from 200 teacher training students transferred from Achimota in the Greater Accra Region. The college was affiliated to the University of London. In 1961, the college was granted full university status.\n\nThe main university campus, which is about seven square miles in area, is about to the east of Kumasi, the Ashanti Regional capital.\n\nThe Kumasi College of Technology opened officially on 22 January 1952 with 200 teacher training students transferred from Achimota, to form the nucleus of the new college. In October 1952, the School of Engineering and the Department of Commerce were established and the first students were admitted. A Pharmacy Department was established in January 1953, with the transfer of the former School of Pharmacy from Korle Bu Teaching Hospital, Accra, to the college. The department ran a two-year comprehensive course in Pharmacy leading to the award of the Pharmacy Board Certificate. A Department of Agriculture was opened in the same year to provide ad hoc courses of varying duration, from a few terms to three years, for the Ministry of Agriculture. A Department of General Studies was instituted to prepare students for the Higher School Certificate Examinations in Science and Arts subjects and to give instruction in subjects as requested by the other departments.\n\nFrom 1952 to 1955, the School of Engineering prepared students for professional qualifications only. In 1955, the school embarked on courses leading to the University of London Bachelor of Engineering External Degree Examinations.\n\nIn 1957, the School of Architecture, Town Planning and Building was inaugurated. Its first students were admitted in January 1958, for professional courses. As the college expanded, it was decided to make the Kumasi College of Technology a purely science and technology institution. In pursuit of this policy, the Teacher Training College, with the exception of the Art School, was transferred in January 1958, to the Winneba Training College; in 1959 the Commerce Department was transferred to Achimota to form the nucleus of the present School of Administration of the University of Ghana, Legon.\n\nIn December 1960, the Government of Ghana appointed a University Commission to advise it on the development of university education, in connection with the proposal to transform the University College of Ghana and the Kumasi College of Technology into an independent University of Ghana. Following the report of the commission which came out early 1961, the government decided to establish two independent universities in Kumasi and Legon, Accra. The Kumasi College of Technology was thus transformed, under the supervision of R. P. Baffour, into a full-fledged University Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology by an Act of Parliament on 22 August 1961. The name honors Kwame Nkrumah, the first prime minister and later president of Ghana.\n\nThe name was changed to University of Science and Technology after the Revolution of 24 February 1966. The University of Science and Technology was officially inaugurated on Wednesday, 20 November 1961. However, another act of Parliament (Act 559 of 1998) changed the name back to its original version, the Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology, Kumasi.\n\nThe principal officers of the university are the chancellor, chairman of the University Council and vice-chancellor. As of 2018, the position of chancellor was held by the Asantehene Otumfuo Osei Tutu II.\n\nGovernance is carried out by the University Council, primarily through the Academic Board, which is responsible for:\n\nStudents participate in the administration of the university through their representatives serving on the University Council, Academic Board, the Welfare Services Board, Faculty and Departmental Boards, Residence Committee, Library Committee and on the Hall Councils.\n\nKNUST has, since January 2005, transformed from its previous centralized system of administration into a decentralized collegiate university. Under this system, the faculties have been condensed into six colleges.\n\nThe university had been administered on the faculty-based system. This led to administrative difficulties as new faculties and institutes were created to meet the ever-growing academic pursuits of students. To solve this problem, a collegiate system was officially adopted on 29 November 2004. On 5 April 2005, the pioneering provosts were inducted and invested into office at the Great Hall of the KNUST.\n\nThe colleges are semi-autonomous, which means that they are given the power to largely run on their own without much dependence on the central administration for financial support. A college registrar, finance officer and librarian assist the provosts. Under them are the faculties, centres and institutes, headed by deans and directors. As heads of the colleges, the provosts provide academic and administrative leadership for the colleges and oversee their overall running.\n\nThere are numerous KNUST approved hostels mostly within close proximity to main campus. Students of all financial backgrounds have their accommodation needs catered for. There are six halls of residence at the Kumasi campus, each administered by a hall council consisting of senior and junior members. The executive head is the hall master, who is assisted by a senior tutor. There is a hall bursar and other supporting staff.\n\n\nAbout 60% of the student population is non-resident. There are private hostels around the campus and in Kumasi for students who, as a result of the limited facilities/rooms, could not be admitted as resident students.\n\nThere are facilities on campus where non-resident students can rest between lectures and study before they leave for their homes and hostels.\n\nIn January 2014, the top floor of the Crystal Rose Hostel caught fire while most students were on vacation. The cause of the fire is still not known.\n\nThere is a large multinational international community at KNUST as a result of the high standards of education. There is an international student association that sees to the interests of foreign students such as accommodation, orientation and campus tours.\n\nFrom the 2010/11 academic year some of the colleges operate a two-tier system, while others maintain their three-tier system.\n\nColleges under the three-tier system (Provost/Dean/Head of Department):\n\n\n\nColleges under the two-tier system (Provost/Head of Department):\n\nIn the year 2005, the KNUST adopted distance learning as a viable complement to the conventional face-to-face system of education. This decision was made to offer opportunity for people to pursue academic programmes with the Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology, while still on full-time employment.\n\nIn October 2007, the Academic Board changed the status of the Faculty of Distance Learning to the Institute of Distance Learning.\n\nThe KNUST Library provides information in electronic and print formats to staff and students mainly to support teaching, learning and research in science and technology for national development. It is a depository library for all materials published in Ghana and for international institutions and organisations like the World Bank and other United Nations Agencies.\n\nDigital services are available through the Open Educational Resource (OER) as well as the DSpace repository.\n\n\n\nIn Government and Diplomacy,Vice-President of Ghana(2000-2008);Aliu Mahama studied at KNUST. Chief Justice of Ghana;Edward Kwame Wiredu was also a student at KNUST. Former first lady of Ghana,Nana Konadu Agyeman-Rawlings is an alumni.\nSeveral notable Ghanaian cabinet ministers have also graduated from the institution including Haruna Esseku and current education minister,Matthew Opoku Prempeh. \nUN Secretary-General and Nobel Peace Prize Laureate in 2001,Kofi Annan had a part of his education at KNUST. \nKwaku Aning,Hackman Owusu-Agyeman are other diplomats who graduated from KNUST. \nNotable Graduates from KNUST College of Engineering include Thomas Mensah,the inventor whose discovery in fibre optics made fibre optics commercial throughout the world, Alex Mould;former CEO of GNPC,Benjamin Asante,CEO of Ghana Gas and Charles Darku,former CEO of GRIDCO and Tullow Ghana Limited. \nThe female novelist writer,Amma Darko was attended KNUST. Actors,John Dumelo and Chris Attoh attended KNUST.\n\n"}
{"id": "32966110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32966110", "title": "List of libraries by country", "text": "List of libraries by country\n\nThis is a list of lists of libraries by country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32232389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32232389", "title": "List of unsuccessful attacks related to schools", "text": "List of unsuccessful attacks related to schools\n\nThis is a list of unsuccessful or foiled attacks related to schools. These are foiled school-related attack plots that resulted in a conviction. A broad definition of the word \"attacks\" is used for this list so as to include public attacks or one's self (suicide).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58067863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58067863", "title": "Luise Meyer-Dustmann", "text": "Luise Meyer-Dustmann\n\nLuise Meyer-Dustmann (born Luise Meyer: 22 August 1831 - 2 March 1899) was a German opera singer (soprano), and singing teacher.\n\nMarie Luise Meyer was born in Aachen where her father, Friedrich August Meyer, worked as a theatre inspector. He had recently married her mother, born Anna Maria Absenger, who was a stage singer. Luise had a younger sister, (1840-1908) who went on to become a stage actress.\n\nShe received her first musical education from her mother, who by this time was working as a soubrette in Breslau (as Wrocław was known at that time). When she was 17 she moved to Vienna to receive further lessons in singing and stagecraft. Here, according to a biographical article in the , she had to \"battle with many difficulties during the [brief but bloody] October uprising of 1848\". Tantalisingly, the writer does not elaborate.\n\nShe made her stage debut in the 1848/49 season at the Theater in der Josefstadt under the direction of the multi-talented Kapellmeister Albert Lortzing. After a time she left Vienna and joined her parents who were still working in Breslau. Here she took work at the City Theatre (\"Städtische Bühne\"). She was engaged during 1850 and 1851 as a stage singer at the Court Theatre in Kassel where she enjoyed great success as the company's lead soprano under the musical direction of Louis Spohr. Her reputation established, she was now able to broaden her horizons, touring theatres in various principal north German cities giving a succession of well applauded guest performances, notably in Braunschweig and Hamburg. In 1852 Luise Meyer switched to the in Dresden, remaining under contract there till 1854. However, she was not well accepted by the theatre community in Dresden, and was happy to accept an invitation to move to Prague where she quickly became a favourite with audiences.\n\nFrom Prague she was able to travel and make a number pf guest appearances elsewhere, notably in Stuttgart, Strasbourg and back in Vienna itself. During July 1856 she undertook a succession of guest performances at Vienna. She featured there in the first Vienna performances of Les Huguenots. Positive press reviews and public reactions adumbrated her future as the leading soprano of Vienna's Imperial Court Opera-Theatre (\"K. K. Hof-Operntheater\"). During this time she came to the notice of the Archduke Franz Karl who instructed that she should be invited to join the Court Opera. She was enrolled into the company in 1 January 1857.\n\nIn 1858 she married Adalbert Dustmann, a Vienna book seller. In 1860 she became an imperial \"Hofkammersängerin\" (\"literally, \"court chamber singer\"), an important but largely honorific appointment. Her voice had developed into a powerful precise soprano one, with a good range and a particular pleasing euphony in the middle register. Her intonation was accurate and confident. Her natural gifts, backed by diligent and intense study, matched with a deep sensitivity to the true artistic potential of her various stage roles, made her well suited to portray leading characters, including Norma, Jessonda, Amalie in Ballo in maschera, Valentine in Les Huguenots, Mathilde in William Tell. By 1875 she had been seen and heard by an appreciative Viennese audience in almost all the important lead soprano roles of the time. That year she ended her full-time stage career in the role of Elsa von Brabant in Lohengrin. There were, however, further guest appearances as Amalie in Ballo in maschera in Court Opera productions in 1877 and 1881.\n\nAlongside the operas of Christoph Willibald Gluck, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart and Carl Maria von Weber, Meyer-Dustmann returned again and again to the operas of Richard Wagner. She conducted a lengthy correspondence with Wagner who always described her as \"his\" soprano\". There was evidently great mutual respect. When he was considering her for the Isolde role in the debut Karlsruhe production of Tristan and Isolde, the composer told his wife, Minna that Meyer-Dustmann had a \"beautiful soulful voice, capable of anything [as well as] an excellent dramatic delivery\", and a great range of nuance.\n\nBy the time she retired from the stage Meyer-Dustmann had also built up a parallel career as a Lieder singer, with a particular focus on the songs of Mendelssohn and Schubert. On 5 January 1870, together with Rosa Girzick, Gustav Walter and Emil Krauss, she gave the first public performance of the Liebeslieder Walzer. The piano duet accompaniment was provided by the composer and Clara Schumann.\n\nAfter 1875 she took a teaching position with the conservatory at the city's Society of Friends of Music. Notable pupils included Lola Beeth, and . She gave up her teaching role in Vienna in 1880 when, with her husband, she relocated to Berlin-Charlottenburg. Here she lived out the rest of her life.\n"}
{"id": "2280105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280105", "title": "MIT in popular culture", "text": "MIT in popular culture\n\nThe Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), a private research university in Cambridge, Massachusetts in the United States, has been referenced by many works of cinema, television and the written word. MIT's overall reputation has greater influence on its role in popular culture than does any particular aspect of its history or student lifestyle. Because MIT is well known as a breeding ground for technology and technologists, the makers of modern media are able to use it to establish character in a way that mainstream audiences can understand. A smaller number of works use MIT directly as their scene of action.\n\nThe use of \"MIT as metaphor\" is relatively widespread, so much so that in popular culture, \"the MIT of\" is an idiom for \"top science and engineering university,\" or \"elite technical institution,\" like \"Cadillac of\" for \"most luxurious,\" or \"an Einstein\" for \"intelligent person.\" Similarly, any regionally prominent science or engineering school is likely to be called \"the MIT of\" that region. For example, U.S. Senator Richard Shelby (R-Alabama) touted the University of Alabama in Huntsville as a possible \"MIT of the South.\" The Georgia Institute of Technology has also been called \"the MIT of the South\". Other examples, make \"X is the MIT of Y\" an example of a snowclone (a family of formulaic clichés).\n\nFrequently, when a character in Hollywood cinema is required to have a science or engineering background, or in general possess an extremely high level of intelligence, the film establishes that he or she is an MIT graduate or associate. (MIT can also be a comparative or a metaphor for intellect in general: \"Would they think of \"that\" at MIT?\"). Numerous films and television series indulge in this technique, including:\n\nIn \"Iron Man,\" several close-ups of Terrence Howard clearly show his character (\"Jim Rhodes\") to be wearing a brass rat; Robert Downey, Jr.'s character (\"Tony Stark\") appears to wear one as well in the movie.\n\nJames Burke's television series \"The Day the Universe Changed\" (1985) employs the same technique for a more academic purpose. In the episode \"Point of View,\" which describes the discovery of perspective geometry and its ramifications, Burke spends a little time in the Italian city of Padua. This city, which hosted the second-oldest Italian university after Bologna, boasted a large concentration of intellectuals. In Burke's phrase, Padua was \"the MIT of the fifteenth century.\" An episode of his later series \"Connections 2\" (1994) uses a similar shorthand to characterize the seventeenth-century Royal Society.\n\nThe television series \"Numbers\" has several different connections to MIT. The pilot episode was shot in Boston. Co-creator and Executive Producer Cheryl Heuton says, \"We originally tried to choose MIT for the show. We originally set the show in Boston, and Charlie [Eppes, one of the main characters,] was going to be a professor at MIT. We contacted MIT, and their answer was they're not in the film and TV business...\" Multiple episodes of the show mention that Charlie studied at MIT. Dylan Bruno, the actor who plays Colby Granger, has earned a bachelor's degree in environmental engineering from MIT.\n\nFilms set at MIT are less common than those that use the MIT name as metaphor. Nevertheless, MIT has been part of movie settings, in such films as \"Blown Away\" (1994), \"Good Will Hunting\" (1997), \"A Beautiful Mind\" (2001), \"21\" (2008), and \"Knowing\" (which also features exteriors of the Haystack Observatory). Most of the scenes for these movies, especially indoor scenes, are in fact filmed elsewhere due to MIT's reluctance to give permission to film on campus. Although portions of \"Blown Away\" were shot on the Institute campus, the film still makes several geographical errors about MIT and Boston in general. An incidental scene in \"The Friends of Eddie Coyle\" (1973) was shot on location outside of MIT Baker House. A scene in \"A Small Circle of Friends\" (1980) was shot in Walker Memorial, an MIT cafeteria and gymnasium. The movie setting portrays Harvard University, but Harvard declined to allow the filming on their campus.\n\nSome cinematic references to MIT betray a mild anti-intellectualism, or at least a lack of respect for \"book learning\". For example, \"Space Cowboys\" features the seasoned hero (Clint Eastwood) trying to explain a piece of antiquated spacecraft technology to a rather whippersnapping youngster. When the young astronaut fails to comprehend Eastwood's explanation, he snaps that \"I have two master's degrees from MIT\", to which Eastwood replies, \"Maybe you should get your money back\". Similarly, Gus Van Sant's introduction to the published \"Good Will Hunting\" screenplay suggests that the lead character's animosity towards official MIT academia reflects a class struggle with ethnic undertones, in particular Will Hunting's Irish background versus the \"English aristocracy\" of the MIT faculty. \"Help!\", The Beatles' second film, ties MIT to the mad scientist stereotype when Professor Foot (Victor Spinetti) declares, \"MIT was after me, you know. Wanted me to rule the world for them!\"\n\nHBO's television miniseries \"From the Earth to the Moon\" (1998) contains segments set at MIT, most notably in the episode covering Apollo 14. The series portrays the Institute's denizens as very slightly eccentric engineers who do their part to keep the Apollo program running successfully.\n\n\"Inside\" MIT references also appear in film without attribution. In \"Stir Crazy\" (1980), the opening close-up shot of Grossberger, played by Erland Van Lidth De Jeude (MIT Class of 1976, SB in Computer Science & Engineering), clearly reveals his actual \"Brass Rat\" class ring. In \"The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle\" (2000), a background image of Whassamatta U. is recognizable as a main MIT building.\n\nMIT is referenced in some Japanese anime: the sci-fi series \"Neon Genesis Evangelion\" mentions MIT as the location of one of the replica MAGI supercomputers; the comedy series \"Pani Poni Dash!\" revolves around an 11-year-old student who graduated from MIT and travels to Japan to become a high school teacher. The CIA character \"Ed Hoffman\" in the film \"Body of Lies\" can be seen wearing an MIT shirt in multiple shots.\n\nIn the television series \"Las Vegas\" (2003), Mike Cannon (played by James Lesure), one of the main characters, is a highly intelligent, and technically very gifted engineer and MIT graduate. The character Eli Wallace in the television series SGU Stargate Universe (2009-2011) is a genius MIT dropout.\n\nIndividual characters in single episodes of television series are often announced as MIT graduates. For example, in the 1992 episode \"The Corporate Veil\" of the television series \"Law & Order\", both mother and son protagonists are said to be electrical engineering graduates of MIT. MIT was also mentioned in the pilot episode of \"Gilmore Girls\".\n\nOn separate episodes of \"Da Ali G Show\" (2003-2004), Ali G (played by Sacha Baron Cohen) interviewed two MIT professors: Jerome Friedman, Institute Professor and Professor of Physics Emeritus, and Noam Chomsky, Institute Professor Emeritus.\n\nRandal Pinkett, the winner of season 4 of \"The Apprentice\", is an MIT alum, with an SM in Electrical Engineering (1998), an MBA from Sloan School of Management (1998), and a PhD in Media Arts & Sciences from the Media Lab (2001).\n\nTwo lead characters in the television series \"Fringe\" have MIT backgrounds: Walter Bishop earned a Ph.D. at MIT, and his son Peter Bishop falsified an MIT degree.\n\nThe movie \"Keeping Up with the Joneses\" (2016) depicts its protagonist, Jeff Gaffney (Zach Galifianakis), pretending to be a scientist named Dr. Rascal Flatts, about whom his wife says, \"He's very smart. MIT.\"\n\nAn episode of the television series \"The Magicians\" (2016) introduces a character named Kira (Yaani King Mondschein), who says, \"I went to MIT, but I didn't study a lick of magic in school.\"\n\nIn the television series \"Timeless\" (2016), a protagonist named Rufus Carlin (Malcolm Barrett) often mentions on the show that he is an alumnus of MIT. In one episode, Carlin time travels to 1893 and meets real-life MIT alumna Sophia Hayden (MIT Class of 1890), who assumes that Carlin must be Robert Robinson Taylor (MIT Class of 1892), the first African-American student at MIT.\n\nA story arc from Rocky and Bullwinkle, Goof Gas Attack, starts with a gas attack that induces stupidity at the \"Double Dome Institute of Advanced Thinking\". The MIT campus is noted for its 2 neoclassical domes.\n\nIn the 2018 animated series, Tenacious D in Post-Apocalypto, the protaganists meet a group of scientists who say, \"Where are we from? MIT, where else? We are the top uttermost scientsts in all of the world, surviving.\"\n\nTom Magliozzi and his younger brother Ray were \"Click and Clack, The Tappet Brothers\", the hosts of National Public Radio's comedy car advice show \"Car Talk\". Both were MIT alumni — Tom earned a degree in chemical engineering (1958), and Ray earned a degree in humanities and general science (1972) — and they regularly used that fact in their self-deprecating attempts to establish their credibility on technical matters. After campaigning on-air for years, they were finally invited to speak at MIT's 1999 commencement exercise. Although Tom Magliozzi died in 2014, and their radio show had stopped new programming in 2012, past episodes continue to be aired nationally as \"The Best of Car Talk\".\n\nNonfiction works have examined MIT, its history, and its various subcultures. In addition to books like \"Nightwork,\" which recount the Institute's hacking tradition, Benson Snyder's \"The Hidden Curriculum\" (1970) describes the state of MIT student and faculty psychology in the late 1960s. Noted physicist and raconteur Richard Feynman built up a collection of anecdotes about his MIT undergraduate years, several of which are retold in his loose memoir \"Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman!\" Some of this material was incorporated into Matthew Broderick's film \"Infinity\" (1996), in addition to Feynman stories from Far Rockaway, Princeton University, and Los Alamos, New Mexico.\n\nIn fiction, the novel \"The Gadget Maker\" (1955, by Maxwell Griffith) traces the life of aeronautical engineer Stanley Brack, who performs his undergraduate studies at MIT. Ben Bova's novel \"The Weathermakers\" (1966) about scientists developing methods to prevent hurricanes from reaching land, is also set in part at MIT. Patricia Vasquez visits (or comes from) MIT in Greg Bear's \"Eon\" (1985). Neal Stephenson hints at MIT in \"Quicksilver\" (2004), and other books of \"The Baroque Cycle\", by having Daniel Waterhouse found the \"Massachusetts Bay Colony Institute of the Technologickal Arts\" in the 18th century.\n\nAyn Rand's novel \"The Fountainhead\" begins with architecture student Howard Roark being expelled from the fictional \"Stanton Institute of Technology\". As that institute is depicted as being located in a seashore suburb of Boston, it seems that MIT - specifically, its School of Architecture - was meant. \n\nJhumpa Lahiri's \"The Namesake\" features a character, Ashoke, who received his PhD in Fiber Optics from MIT.\n\nWhen the novel \"The Magicians\" by Lev Grossman was first published in 2009, the principal review of the book in \"The New York Times\" described the story's academic location, Brakebills College, as \"kind of like the M.I.T. [sic] for magic.\"\n\nThe 2012 historical fiction novel \"The Technologists\", by Matthew Pearl, is set in the MIT of 1868, during its first decade of existence. The protagonists are some of the first students to enroll in the fledgling college, and include both fictional composite characters and real-life historical figures, such as Ellen Swallow Richards and Daniel Chester French. In response to a high-tech terrorist attack on the City of Boston, the students form a secret research laboratory to discover the perpetrator and to forestall further attacks. They interact closely with prominent historical figures, such as William Barton Rogers (the founder of MIT), Harvard professor Louis Agassiz (pioneer of modern geology and paleontology), and Charles William Eliot (then an MIT professor, and soon to become the longest-serving president of Harvard University). The author spent many hours doing background research in the MIT Archives while writing the novel, and weaves many historical details into his narrative of mystery and adventure.\n\n\"Geeks & Greeks\" (2016) is a semi-autobiographical graphic novel by Steve Altes and Andy Fish, set at MIT. The story was inspired by MIT's hacking culture and Altes's experiences with fraternity hazing. \n\nIn Thornton Wilder's play \"Our Town\", the Stage Manager mentions the gravestone of Joe Crowell, whom he describes as \"awful bright – graduated from high school here, head of his class. So he got a scholarship to Massachusetts Tech. Graduated head of his class there, too. It was all wrote up in the Boston paper at the time. Goin’ to be a great engineer, Joe was. But the war broke out and he died in France. – All that education for nothing.\"\n\nMIT is a recurring motif in the works of Kurt Vonnegut, much like the planet Tralfamadore or the Vietnam War. In part, this recurrence may stem from Vonnegut family history: both his grandfather Bernard and his father Kurt, Sr. studied at MIT and received bachelor's degrees in architecture. His older brother, another Bernard, earned a bachelor's and a PhD in chemistry, also at MIT. Since so many of Vonnegut's stories are ambivalent or outright pessimistic with regard to technology's impact on humankind, it is hardly surprising that his references to the Institute express a mixed attitude.\n\nIn \"Hocus Pocus\" (1990), the Vietnam-veteran narrator Eugene Debs Hartke applies for graduate study in MIT's physics program, but his plans go awry when he tangles with a hippie at a Harvard Square Chinese restaurant. Hartke observes that men in uniform had become a ridiculous sight around colleges, even though both Harvard and MIT obtained much of their income from weapons research and development. (\"I would have been dead if it weren't for that great gift to civilization from the Chemistry Department of Harvard, which was napalm, or sticky jellied gasoline.\") \"Jailbird\" notes drily that MIT's eighth president was one of the three-man committee who upheld the Sacco and Vanzetti ruling, condemning the two men to death. As reported in \"The Tech\", June 7, 1927:\n\n\"Palm Sunday\" (1981), a loose collage of essays and other material, contains a markedly skeptical and humanist commencement address Vonnegut gave to Hobart and William Smith Colleges in Geneva, New York. Speaking of the role religion plays in modern society, Vonnegut notes:\n\nKurt Vonnegut was friends with fellow humanist and writer Isaac Asimov, who resided for many years in Newton, Massachusetts. During much of this time, Asimov chose the date for the MIT Science Fiction Society's annual picnic, citing a superstition that he always picked a day with good weather. In his copious autobiographical writings, Asimov reveals a mild predilection for the Institute's architecture, and an awareness of its aesthetic possibilities. For example, \"In Joy Still Felt\" (1980) describes a 1957 meeting with Catherine de Camp, who was checking out colleges for her teenage son. Asimov recalls:\n\nAsimov's work, too, trades on MIT's reputation for narrative effect, even touching upon an anti-academic theme. In the short story \"The Dead Past\" (1956), the scientist-hero Foster must overcome the attitudes his Institute physics training has entrenched in his mind, before he can make his critical breakthrough. Several jokes in \"Isaac Asimov's Treasury of Humor\" and its sequel \"Asimov Laughs Again\" hinge upon MIT, its reputation for scientific prowess, and the technocentric focus of its students. In a similar vein, the satirical newspaper \"The Onion\" published an article entitled \"Corpse-Reanimation Technology Still 10 Years Off, Say MIT Mad Scientists,\" among many others in the same general tradition.\n\nSince 1983, science fiction writer Joe Haldeman has been an Adjunct Professor teaching writing at MIT, and knows the institution well. This is very evident in \"The Accidental Time Machine\" where MIT at various past and future times in its history plays a central role. The institution is described with considerable affection and much \"insider\" knowledge of the hidden corners in the MIT campus (as well as conspicuous parts of its geography such as the Green Building and the Infinite Corridor), of the relations between students and lecturers, and of various wild and rather illicit student practices.\n\nThe book begins with MIT student Matt Fuller accidentally discovering the time machine of the title. He jumps a decade forward to find that his professor has taken credit for his discovery and gotten a Nobel Prize for it; jumps centuries ahead and finds a theocracy where MIT is the Massachusetts Institute of \"Theology\"; and after more adventures winds up in the past, in the late 19th century when MIT was still in its original location on Boylston Street. In all time periods, under vastly differing circumstances, the protagonist becomes an MIT full professor.\n\nSeveral comic strips make use of MIT. In \"Doonesbury,\" Kim Rosenthal almost earned her PhD in computer science, dropping out because it was \"too easy.\" In the fall of 2006, Kim and Mike Doonesbury's daughter Alex entered MIT as a freshman. (The 3 October 2006 \"Doonesbury\" strip satirizes the \"MIT of\" snowclone; Zipper Harris declares the fictional Walden College to be \"the MIT of southern Connecticut.\") Dilbert received a degree from Course VI-1. Bill Amend's \"FoxTrot\" has also made MIT allusions, in keeping with the strip's genial satire of nerd subcultures. On Christmas Day 2005, the comic strip \"Baby Blues\" featured a character reading the instruction manual accompanying a gadget that he has given to his child as a Christmas present. The first volume of instructions begins, \"\"Assembly Instructions\" — \"Step 1:\" Obtain a master's degree in mechanical engineering from M.I.T. \"Step 2:\" ...\"\n\nSome genres of computer and video games have characterization requirements like those of movies. For example, a game involving a team of commandos might require a member who can break into computers, crack security systems, or work with explosives. This character's background would typically have to be established very quickly and efficiently, perhaps within one screen of introductory text. Stating that a commando or top-secret operative \"graduated from MIT\" is one way to accomplish this.\n\nMIT is mentioned in the computer games \"Area 51\" (1995), \"Half-Life\" (1998), \"Half-Life 2\" (2005), \"Metal Gear Solid\" (1998), and in the \"Fallout\" series (1997–2015).\n\nIn the case of the \"Half-Life\" series, the main protagonist, Gordon Freeman, is an MIT graduate and has a PhD in Theoretical Physics.\n\nThe Infocom game \"The Lurking Horror\" (1987), written by MIT alumnus and interactive fiction pioneer Dave Lebling, is set on the campus of the George Underwood Edwards Institute of Technology, which strongly resembles MIT. Its fictional culture also parodies the MIT culture. For instance, G.U.E. Tech's class ring is known as the \"brass hyrax\", parodying MIT's Brass Rat.\n\nIn the \"Fallout\" games, MIT is known as the \"Commonwealth Institute of Technology.\" As nuclear war began, researchers from the university hid below the main building and continued with their research without making contact with other survivors. Eventually after many years, they took on the title of simply \"The Institute,\" and became well known as a shady organization with extraordinary technology and the ability to create androids. The Institute is featured as a major faction in the 2015 title, \"Fallout 4\".\nIn , one of the main characters in the story is Edwin Robert House, also called Mr. House is a graduate of The Institute, as stated in his obituary.\n\nIn the Broadway musical \"Rent\" (1996–2008), a major character, Tom Collins, is expelled from teaching at MIT, \"for [his] theory of actual reality.\"\n\nThe song \"Etoh\" by the electronic music group The Avalanches describes MIT as \"the home of complicated computers, which speak a mechanical language all their own.\" This lyric can be taken literally, or it can be read metaphorically as a description of MIT student culture. Allan Sherman's paean to initialisms, \"Harvey and Sheila,\" notes that Harvey \"works for IBM; he went to MIT, got his PhD.\" Rhythm and blues group Tony! Toni! Toné! mentions MIT in the song \"Born Not To Know,\" from their 1988 debut album \"Who?\" In the song, a pretentious individual rattles off a long list of his impressive academic credentials—culminating with a \"Ph. D from MIT\"—only to then ask, \"so, can I get a job?\" Tony! Toni! Toné! responds with a resounding \"No!\"\n\n\"Nerdcore\" rap artist MC Hawking's song \"All My Shootin's Be Drive-bys\" (1997) takes tropes associated with gangsta rap and plays them out in a more academic setting. He speaks of taking revenge for the death of a friend, part of his Cambridge, UK crew:\n\nWhen the narrator learns the identity of Pookie's killers, he decides to \"give a Newtonian demonstration, of a bullet its mass and its acceleration,\" leaving six MIT students dead in the street.\n\n\"Weird Al\" Yankovic's \"White & Nerdy\" (2006) riffs upon MIT, along with a plenitude of other geek culture references — \"Star Wars Holiday Special,\" pocket protectors and editing Wikipedia, to name a few. Yankovic claims that he graduated \"first in [his] class here at MIT\"; however, the Institute does not assign class rankings or confer traditional Latin honors upon its graduates.\n\nThe students and faculty of MIT have produced their own share of musical material. For example, the mathematician and satirist Tom Lehrer taught for a time in MIT's political science department, lecturing on quantitative methods and statistics. This experience led him to write a song called \"Sociology,\" played to the tune of Irving Berlin's \"Choreography.\" The lyrics conclude,\n\nStudents have also written their own songs during their tenures at the Institute. This tradition, which goes back at least to The Doormat Singers of the 1960s, continues with several present-day groups.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54416925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54416925", "title": "McMansion Hell", "text": "McMansion Hell\n\nMcMansion Hell is a website which humorously critiques \"McMansions\"; large suburban homes typically built from the 1980s to 2008, known for their stylistic attempt of appearing wealthy using mass-produced architecture. The website is run by Kate Wagner, a graduate student of acoustical studies at the Johns Hopkins University's Peabody Conservatory and architectural writer.\n\nThe blog has acquired many fans since it started in June 2016.\nWagner has been interviewed for \"Paper\", \"The Washington Post\", \"Slate\", \"Business Insider\", \"The Hairpin\", and \"Der Spiegel\" in Germany, and has appeared on the \"99% Invisible\" podcast.\nShe has gained wide name recognition in architectural circles\nand has published in the \"Architectural Digest\", \"The Atlantic\",\nand \"Jacobin\".\n\nBesides critiquing the homes themselves, the website also criticizes the material culture of wastefulness McMansions can represent.\n\nThe website gives anecdotes of situations when McMansions have been a poor financial investment.\n\nIn June 2017 Zillow threatened a lawsuit against McMansion Hell for critiquing the homes depicted in photos which Zillow customers had uploaded to their website. Various lawyers committed to defend the website as a matter of free speech and social justice. However, after a few days Zillow chose not to pursue a lawsuit.\n\n"}
{"id": "25790874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25790874", "title": "National Translation Mission", "text": "National Translation Mission\n\nNational Translation Mission (Hindi: राष्ट्रीय अनुवाद मिशन; IAST: \"Rāṣṭrīya Anuvāda Miśana\") is a Government of India initiative to make knowledge texts accessible, in all Indian languages listed in the VIII schedule of the Constitution, through translation. NTM was set up on the recommendation of the National Knowledge Commission. The Ministry of Human Resource Development has designated Central Institute of Indian Languages as the nodal organization for the operationalization of NTM.\n\nEnglish, the primary medium of higher education in India, remains inaccessible to even the literate majority of the country. Therefore, there is an urgent need to translate material in all fields like literary, technical, scientific and business etc. so that such material is accessible to a wide range of different language speaking population across the country. Translation, thus, is seen not just as an instrument of democratizing and secularizing knowledge, but also of empowering languages and speech communities.\n\nNTM intends to establish translation as an industry in the country. Its main objectives include generation of translation tools such as dictionaries and thesauri; development of software for translation, memory, etc.; promotion of machine translation and machine aided translation; translator education through orientation programs & courses; fellowships & grants for research projects, etc. Bringing visibility to translators and translation activities by organizing book launches for translations; instituting prizes and fellowships; organizing Regional Festivals of Translation; book exhibitions, etc. also are part of the activities of NTM.\n\nProject Advisory Committee (NTM-PAC) of NTM is the highest decision making body of NTM. It is a committee of 25 members representing various sections of the academic community, ministerial bodies and publishing houses related to translation. NTM-PAC is supported by four sub-committees in matters related to copyrights and legal matters; selecting knowledge texts; fixing rates for translators, copy editors etc.; and Grant in Aid schemes of NTM.\n\nNTM is in the process of establishing itself as the clearing house of all translation related activities in the country. Interaction with the public is a requisite and NTM has developed its website (www.ntm.org.in) in 23 languages for the purpose. NTM website introduces the Mission, its objectives, beneficiaries, and structure etc. Updates on list of books selected for translation, experts consulted, announcement of translation assignments etc. are available for the public here. The Discussion Forum facilitates the users to discuss various topics like the books selected for translation in a subject, an existing translation, and terminology issues in Indian languages etc.\"\"\n\n105 titles have been approved for translations in 21 disciplines (Botany, Chemistry, Computer Science, Economics, History, Law, Mathematics, Mechanical Engineering, Medical Science, Philosophy, Physics, Political Science, Psychology, Sociology and Zoology) so far.\n\nTo know more about the books taken up for translation, visit - www.ntm.org.in\n\nNTM also maintains National Register of Translators(NRT) through its website. NRT is a databank wherein translators register themselves online. NRT is a searchable directory of translators, evaluators and discipline experts with classified information on profession, experience, languages known and expertise in translation, etc.\n\nLists of the most prescribed texts in Indian universities in various disciplines are generated out of the Knowledge Text Module, another major facet of NTM-databases. Two searchable database components have been created under it: Indian Universities Database and Knowledge Text Database. Indian Universities Database furnishes information on courses, syllabi and textbooks etc. of over 350 Union Grants Commission (UGC) accredited universities and institutions. Knowledge Text Database provides complete details of the prescribed books. When made public, this would become one of the first state initiatives to provide information about all the universities/institutions and courses which can be accessed through a single window. It would help scholars and academicians from various regions to access the latest information on courses and syllabi of any university/institution of the country. University Boards can review the course details and syllabi structure of other universities before revising their curriculum. This may help in creating parity among universities of rural and urban regions.\n\nNTM-databases, created in Microsoft SQL 2005, can contain a maximum of 2^31 objects and span multiple Operating System-level files with a maximum file size of 220 Terabyte. Control mechanisms have been incorporated to the database for concurrent access to shared data, for ensuring data integrity. NTM aims to increase the usability of the databases by making them both as web and standalone applications.\n\nThe bilingual dictionaries are modelled after the hugely popular Longman Corpus Network - based Basic English-English dictionary. Six bilingual dictionaries developed by the NTM in collaboration Pearson Education, India were launched on 10 March 2012.\n\nThe dictionaries are the first publications from the NTM stable. In fact, the project had begun before the coming of NTM. Dorling Kindersley India Pvt Ltd (publishing as Pearson Education) and the Central Institute of Indian Languages (CIIL) had agreed to develop bilingual dictionaries in 11 languages. The work started in 2006. Later when NTM was launched in the year 2008, the lexical build activities were merged with NTM. The dictionaries are modeled on the British National Corpus based hugely popular Longman Basic English Dictionary. Following are the dictionaries that were launched:(listed alphabetically)\n\n\nThe dictionaries can be bought from popular online retailers like www.flipkart.com, www.homeshop18.com, www.pearson.vrvbookshop.com etc. or book sellers across the country.\n\nWork is under progress in other Indian languages - Assamese, Bodo, Dogri, Gujarati, Konkani, Maithili, Meitei, Marathi, Nepali, Punjabi, Sanskrit, Santali, Telugu, and Urdu.\n\ne-dictionaries of NTM are based on ‘Longman Advanced Bilingual Framework’(LABF). LABF Dataset will be used through the Dictionary Production System(DPS), originally developed by Longman and marketed by Ingenierie Diffusion Multimedia(IDM), France. The NTM-Longman e-dictionary deals with 338,000 words, phrases and meanings; 78,000 head entries, 5,400 encyclopaedic entries, 54,000 phrases, over 515,000 examples and 26,000 synonyms, antonyms and related words.\n\nAn English-Kannada Machine Translation(MT) package which bids to break new ground on the MT scene in India is being developed under NTM. The main aim of this project is to automate the translation of a given English sentence into Kannada. This Package is divided into 3 main modules– Parallel Aligned Corpora, Digitization of Source Language(SL) resources and Architecture. The Architecture is divided into 8 modules and implemented using Java with Netbeans Integrated Development Environment(IDE). The front end is designed using Swings and back-end SQL. The dictionary is put into action using random access file. Since Hash tables are particularly efficient when the maximum number of entries can be predicted in advance, this technique is used to accomplish searching. Collection classes are used as data storage structures.\nNTM has been interacting with several teams (like C-DAC, Pune, Noida, Mumbai; LTRC, ILMT, EILMT, Anusaaraka, Shakti—all at IIIT, Hyderabad) engaged in developing Machine Translation software to explore the extent to which the MT research and NTM can interface for mutual benefit.\n\nDictionary of Translation Studies being prepared by NTM intends to serve as a companion to students and scholars interested in and associated with the discipline of Translation Studies. It is a compilation of the technically charged terms used in the discipline. It endeavours to be a comprehensive dictionary, exhausting the technical terms used in Indian as well as western discourse of translation and also the terms used in the sub-domains of Translation Studies like Interpreting, Machine Translation, etc.\n\nWith an aim to train and orient translators, NTM has been organising 3 weeks Intensive Training Programme – ‘Introduction to Translation’. Translation theoreticians & academicians, eminent translators, linguists and language scholars from across the country have been delivering talks on various theoretical and practical aspects of translation. All the details are available in NTM website\n\nNTM has also started piloting the methods and means of its nationwide Certification of Translators Programme. The certification module is being developed in collaboration with the National Accreditation Board for Certification Bodies (NABCB) of the Quality Council of India (QCI) along the lines of the international standards set for Personnel Certification. Training of evaluators will be a major component of the Certification of Translators Programme as a new system of grading translators will be introduced.\n\nKnowledge Text Scenario Survey\n\nNTM conducted a survey with the following objectives:\n\n17 languages are covered in the survey and they are Assamese, Bengali, Hindi, Kannada, Konkani, Malayalam, Maithili, Meitei, Marathi, Nepali, Odia, Punjabi, Sanskrit, Santali, Tamil, Telugu and Urdu. All the finding of the survey are compiled in a report titled \"Regional Language Knowledge Text Scenario – An Assessment\".\n\nRoyalty: Industry Practice across India\n\nNTM conducted a nationwide survey so as to find out the prevalent practice among some of the major as well as regional publishers towards the payment of royalty to authors/copyright holders, translators etc. In all, NTM has gathered information from over 100 publishers, which is essential in framing NTM-policies, especially in case of turnkey projects. A detailed report titled \"Royalty: Industry Practice Across India\" has been prepared.\n\nRoyalty: Lexicography in India\n\nNTM conducted a survey to study the past and present scenario of lexicographic activities in 16 Indian Languages. The languages are - Assamese, Bengali, Hindi, Kannada, Konkani, Maithili, Malayalam, Meitei, Marathi, Nepali, Odia, Sanskrit, Santhali, Tamil, Telugu and Urdu. A detailed report titled Lexicography in Indian Languages: a brief report has been prepared explaining the finding.\n\nMedium of Instruction & Medium of Examination (MoI & MoE) in Higher Education in India\n\nNTM has collected data from 239 Universities/Colleges etc., then categorized, analyzed and a detailed report has been prepared and compared with survey report prepared by UPSC. Data provided by UGC on MoI/MoE are also categorized, analyzed and prepared a report.\n\nNTM has organised workshops in regional languages in different parts of the country involving discipline experts and translators to chalk out strategies for NTM translation assignments. A few seminal knowledge texts formed the focus of discussions in these workshops. NTM has been conducting workshops to assess the existing knowledge text translations in regional languages. These assessment workshops also aim to bring about collaboration between NTM and eminent scholars, writers, translators and publishers in different fields which will help in forming expert panels for its translations. NTM has also been organizing seminars on various aspects of translation with special reference to regional languages in different parts of the country. Apart from these, Translator Orientation Programmes; Publishers, Media and Translators Meet; Book Festivals; Workshops on Literary and Linguistic Terms; programmes on Classical Text and Literary Text Translation have been organized across the country by NTM. These workshops help NTM to popularize its initiatives among beneficiaries.\n\n (Hardback), (Paperback)\n (Hardback), (Paperback)\n (Hardback), (Paperback)\n (Hardback), (Paperback)\n (Hardback), (Paperback)\n (Hardback), (Paperback)\n\nThe Longman-NTM-CIIL English English [Indian Languages] Dictionary Series has been published by Pearson Education India\n\nTranslation of \"Fundamentals of Sociology\" by Gisbert P., Translator: Himangshu Ghosh, Publisher: Suhrid Publications, Kolkata, West Bengal\n\nTranslation of \"The Penguin History of Early India From the Origins to AD 1300\" by Thapar R., Translator: Kameswar Brahma, Publisher: Bodo Sahitya Sabha, Kokrajhar, Assam\n\nTranslation of “An Introduction to the Study of Indian History” by Kosambi D. D., Translator: PChandu Bhau, Yashpal Nirmal, Publisher: Nidhi Publications, Jammu, Jammu & Kashmir.\n\nTranslation of “The Indian Constitution: Cornerstone of a Nation” by Granville Austin. Translator: Naresh Goswami, Publisher: Vani Prakashan.\n\nTranslation of “Abnormal Psychology” by Carson, Robert C.; Butcher, James Neal; Mineka, Susan. Translator: Pallavi Bhatnagar, Jaya Chauhan, Prateeksha Shrivastava, Publisher: Pearson India Education Services Pvt. Ltd.\n\nTranslation of “Organic Chemistry - Vol.1” by I. L. Finar. Translator: Kaushal Kishore Shrivastava and Shubha Shrivastava, Publisher: Pearson India Education Services Pvt. Ltd.\n\nTranslation of “Fundamentals of Molecular Spectroscopy” by Colin N Banwell and Elaine M MaCash. Translator: ಹೆಚ್. ಎಸ್. ಉಮೇಶ್ (H S Umesh), ಎಂ. ಕೆ. ರಾಮಸ್ವಾಮಿ (M K Ramaswamy), Publisher: Vismaya Prakashana, Mysore, Karnataka.\n\nTranslation of \"Heat Transfer\" by J P Holman, Translator: K P Srikantha, Publisher: KSM Trust, Bengaluru, Karnataka\n\nTranslation of \"The Penguin History of Early India From the Origins to AD 1300\" by R. Thapar, Translator: H. S. Umesha, ShashiKumar J, Deepa, Publisher: Vismaya Prakashana, Mysuru, Karnataka\n\nTranslation of “Cast in Modern India and other Essays” by M N Srinivas. Translator: Shambhu Kumar Singh, Publisher:National Translation Mission, Central Institute of Indian Languages, Mysuru, Karnataka\n\nTranslation of “The Indian Constitution: Cornerstone of a Nation” by Granville Austin. Translator: Govindan S Thampi, Publisher:State Institute of Language, Kerala\n\nTranslation of “Outlines of Indian Philosophy”; M Hiriyanna, Translator: R. Parvathikutty, Publisher: State Institute of Language, Kerala\n\nTranslation of \"The Indian Constitution: Cornerstone of a Nation\" by Granville Austin, Translator: भारती केळकर (Bharati Kelkar), Publisher: Diamond Publications, Pune, Maharashtra\n\nTranslation of \"Heat Transfer\" by J P Holman, Translator: Subash Phadke, Publisher: Diamond Publications, Pune, Maharashtra\n\nTranslation of “The Indian Constitution: Cornerstone of a Nation” by Granville Austin. Translator: Rajendra Dhakal, Publisher: Central Institute of Indian Languages, Mysuru\nTranslation of \"Outlines of Indian Philosophy\" by M Hiriyanna, Translator: Ghanashyam Nepal, Publisher: Central Institute of Indian Languages, Mysuru, Karnataka\n\nTranslation of \"The Penguin History of Early India: From Origins to AD 1300\" by Romila Thapar, Translator: ପ୍ରୀତିଶ ଆଚାର୍ଯ୍ୟ (Pritish Acharya), Publisher: A K Mishra Publishers Pvt Ltd, Bhubaneshwar, Odisha\n\nTranslation of \"Outlines of Indian Philosophy\" by M Hiriyanna, Translator: Banbihari Choudhury, Publisher: A K Mishra Publishers Pvt Ltd, Bhubaneshwar, Odisha\n\nTranslation of \"The Indian Constitution: Cornerstone of a Nation\" by Granville Austin, Translator: Arun Kumar Behera, Publisher: A K Mishra Publishers Pvt Ltd, Bhubaneshwar, Odisha\n\nTranslation of \"The Penguin History of Early India: From Origins to AD 1300\" by Romila Thapar, Translator: ਕਰਮਿੰਦਰ ਸਿੰਘ (Karminder Singh), Publisher: Lokgeet Parkashan (Unistar Books Pvt. Ltd.), Chandigarh\n\nTranslation of \"Outlines of Indian Philosophy\" by M Hiriyanna, Translator: ਪ੍ਰਭਕੀਰਤਨ ਸਿੰਘ (Prabhkirtan Singh), Publisher: Lokgeet Parkashan (Unistar Books Pvt. Ltd.), Chandigarh\n\nTranslation of \"The Indian Constitution: Cornerstone of a Nation\" by Granville Austin, Translator: ਕਰਮਿੰਦਰ ਸਿੰਘ (Karminder Singh), Publisher: Lokgeet Parkashan (Unistar Books Pvt. Ltd.), Chandigarh\n\nTranslation of \"Fundamentals of Sociology\" by Gisbert P, Translator: Poornachandran G., Publisher: Central Institute of Indian Languages, Mysuru, Karnataka\n\nTranslation of \"The Indian Constitution: Cornerstone of a Nation\" by Granville Austin, Translator: ప్రభాకర్ మందార (Prabhakar Mandhara), Publisher: Hyderabad Book Trust, Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh\n\nTranslation of \"An Introduction to the Study of Indian History\" by D D Kosambi, Translator: ఎన్ వేణుగోపాల్ (N. Venugopal), Publisher: Hyderabad Book Trust, Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh\n\n\nEditor: Tariq Khan, Publisher:National Translation Mission, Central Institute of Indian Languages, Mysuru, Karnataka\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5751698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5751698", "title": "Niko Miljanić", "text": "Niko Miljanić\n\nDr. Niko Miljanić (Serbian Cyrillic: Нико Миљанић) (1892–1957) a Serbian anatomist and surgeon, was one of the founders of the Belgrade Medical School, which is today part of the University of Belgrade, and has held the first lecture on the newly formed school on December 12, 1920. He has been a full professor of anatomy during the period 1920—1934, then held lectures on surgery propaedeutics from 1935 until 1947. He was relieved from the faculty in 1954. Professor Miljanić was the author of the first textbooks of anatomy in Serbian, a monograph on asepsis, as well as a lot of scientific articles on anatomy and surgery in different journals in Yugoslavia and abroad. As a French ex-pupil he was elected president of the French ex-pupils Association and the founder of the bilingual Serbian-French journal \"Anali medicine i hirurgije\" (\"Annals of Medicine and Surgery\"), published 1927-1934.\n\nIn 1930, he unveiled the Monument of Gratitude to France in Belgrade's Kalemegdan Park, together with King Alexander I of Yugoslavia. He fought in both Balkan Wars and both World Wars. Miljanić was a member of the French Academy of Surgeons and was decorated with the order of the Légion d'honneur.\n"}
{"id": "41540966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41540966", "title": "Paint and sip industry", "text": "Paint and sip industry\n\nThe paint and sip industry consists of group painting lessons accompanied by wine or other beverages. Many wine and painting party studios are franchise-based and the number of businesses in this industry has increased rapidly since 2007.\n\nThere are an estimated 1000 wine and painting party companies in the United States and Canada. The typical wine and painting party franchise offers group painting classes that last for several hours. Customers are encouraged to bring beverages, or purchase them if the studio has a liquor license. Painting lessons are led by professional artists or art students who also create art for the franchise. Clientele are 78% women.\n\nMost wine and painting party businesses operate in a studio, although some host their painting events in restaurants.\n"}
{"id": "31830373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31830373", "title": "Princess Nora bint Abdul Rahman University", "text": "Princess Nora bint Abdul Rahman University\n\nPrincess Nourah Bint Abdulrahman University (PNU; )\nis a public women’s university located in Riyadh, the capital of Saudi Arabia. It is the largest women's university in the world and the largest one in Saudi Arabia.\n\nDesigned by Perkins & Wills Architects, part of Dar Group, it has innovative design and technology, all while keeping in mind the complex characteristics of the Saudi culture.\n\nThe university offers diplomas, bachelor and postgraduate degrees. It has over 60,000 students in 34 colleges in the city of Riyadh and in the neighbouring cities, a preparatory year program for all first year undergraduate students, an Arabic Language Institute (for non-speakers of Arabic), a Deanship of Community Service and Continuous Education, and a Community College. It has more than 5,000 academic and administrative staff.\n\nThe university was founded in 1970 as the first College of Education for women in the Kingdom. Within the following 25 years, there were 102 similar colleges in 72 cities around the country, accommodating 60,000 students. There were 6 colleges in the city of Riyadh alone, primarily in the fields of education, social service, science, arts, and home economics. In 2004, the decision was made to unify all of the women's colleges in Riyadh, thus creating the first all-female university in the Kingdom. Other colleges around the Kingdom were unified and expanded in their respected regions into independent universities.\n\nIn 2008, the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, King Abdullah bin Abdulaziz Al Saud inaugurated the campus and changed the university’s name to “Princess Nourah Bint Abdulrahman University” after Princess Nourah Bint Abdulrahman, the sister of the country’s first king and leader, King Abdulaziz. \"Nourah\" in Arabic means \"light.\" With this launch was the building of the world's largest and most modern women's institution of higher education in a self-contained higher education city.\n\nOn 12 June 2011, the new campus was opened in an official ceremony by the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, King Abdullah bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, during which he said:\n\"Women carry a responsibility that is more than a duty, to maintain the stability of society and contribute to building the economy of the nation, and to represent the community and the nation to the highest standards, outside and inside the country. To be the caring mother, exemplary citizen and productive employee. Outside the nation, to be the ambassador of her country and community, and to represent well her religion, faith and our values.\"\n\nIn February 2017, the University was the host of the first-ever opera in Saudi Arabia. The show, \"Antar and Alba\", was produced by Opera Lebanon.\n\nHealth Colleges\n\n\nScience Colleges\n\n\nHumanities Colleges\n\n\nThe Deanship of Community Service and Continuous Education offers various diploma options.\nThe Arabic Language Institute (for non-speakers of Arabic) offers grant scholarships to non-speakers of Arabic from different countries. The institute has over 350 students from more than 40 countries.\n\nIn early 2018, the University became the first in the Kingdom to offer a driving school for women, following the allowance of King Salman to grant women the right to drive in the Kingdom. More than 50,000 female students are expected to take part.\n\nPreparatory Year Program (PYP):\n\nTo ensure quality and a smooth transition into university life, PNU students are required to enroll in a two-year preparatory program of necessary skills, such as:\n\n\nThe campus was constructed in a record time of two years, supported by 75,000 construction workers and the latest building machinery and methodologies. It is 13 million square meters in size, with a maximum capacity of 60,000 students.\nThe campus has 600 high-tech smart buildings, large-capacity student residencies, various models of faculty residence units, and three spacious, state-of-the-art recreation centers. In addition, it has pre-schools, primary schools, intermediate and secondary schools. It also has an elegant central library, research centers, a university hospital, student support centers, student-accessible sport facilities, a convention center and an automated metro system by Hitachi Rail Italy.\n\nSports Facilities include a number of sports halls (basketball, volleyball, aerobatics, bicycles, etc) as well as an olympic sized swimming pool. In 2016, the University signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the General Authority for Sports, aiming to increase participation in sports to 40% by 2030.\n\n38 of the university’s buildings, totaling a million square meters, have been submitted for a Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) green building rating and the library has applied for the second highest LEED \"Gold\" rating.\n\nThe library holds over 2 million books in both Arabic and English with a maximum capacity of 5 million, in addition to numerous journal subscriptions, government publications, dissertations, databases, and manuscripts.\n\nSocial Research and Women's Studies\n\n\nAljazeera Chair\n\nAcademic Societies Established\n\n\n\n\nDue to the physical size of the campus, an efficient means of transporting students needed to be developed. To this end, a 11.5 km automated guideway transit system, the Princess Nourah Bint Abdulrahman University Automated People Mover (PNU-APM), was constructed. The network, built to light metro standards, opened in 2012 and has 4 lines and 14 stations. It has 22 two car AnsaldoBreda Driverless Metro trains, each having a maximum capacity of up to 110 passengers and a maximum speed of 60 km/h. The driverless technology used in the trains is the same as that of the Copenhagen Metro.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42433514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42433514", "title": "Proportional myoelectric control", "text": "Proportional myoelectric control\n\nProportional myoelectric control can be used to (among other purposes) activate robotic lower limb exoskeletons. A proportional myoelectric control system utilizes a microcontroller or computer that inputs electromyography (EMG) signals from sensors on the leg muscle(s) and then activates the corresponding joint actuator(s) proportionally to the EMG signal.\n\nA robotic exoskeleton is a type of orthosis that uses actuators to either assist or resist the movement of a joint of an intact limb; this is not to be confused with a powered prosthesis, which replaces a missing limb. There are four purposes that robotic lower limb exoskeletons can accomplish:\n\nRobotic lower-limb exoskeletons can be controlled by several methods, including a footswitch (a pressure sensor attached to the bottom of the foot), gait-phase estimation (using joint angles to determine the current phase of walking), and myoelectric control (using electromyography). This article focuses on myoelectric control.\n\nSensors on the skin detect electromyography (EMG) signals from the muscles of the wearer's leg(s). EMG signals can be measured from just one muscle or many, depending on the type of the exoskeleton and how many joints are actuated. Each signal measured is then sent to a controller, which is either an onboard microcontroller (mounted to the exoskeleton) or to a nearby computer. Onboard microcontrollers are used for long-term assistive devices since the wearer must be able to walk in different locations while wearing the exoskeleton, whereas computers not carried by the exoskeleton can be used for therapeutic or research purposes since the wearer does not have to walk very far in a clinical or lab environment. \n\nThe controller filters out noise from the EMG signals and then normalizes them so as to better analyze the muscle activation pattern. The normalized EMG value of a muscle represents its activation percentage, since the EMG signal is normalized by dividing it by the maximum possible EMG reading for the muscle it came from. The maximum EMG reading is generated when a muscle is fully contracted. An alternative method to normalization is to proportionally match the actuator power to the EMG signal between a minimum activation threshold and an upper saturation level.\n\nWith a proportional myoelectric controller, the power sent to an actuator is proportional to the amplitude of the normalized EMG signal from a muscle. When the muscle is inactive, the actuator receives no power from the controller, and when the muscle is fully contracted, the actuator produces maximum torque about the joint it controls. For example, an powered ankle-foot orthosis (AFO) could employ a pneumatic artificial muscle to provide plantar flexion torque proportional to the activation level of the soleus (one of the calf muscles). This control method enables the exoskeleton to be controlled by the same neural pathways as the wearer's biological muscles and has been shown to allow individuals to walk with a more normal gait than other control methods, such as using a footswitch.\nProportional myoelectric control of robotic lower limb exoskeletons has advantages over other control methods, such as: \nHowever, proportional myoelectric control also has disadvantages compared to other control methods, including:\n\nDirect proportional control works well when each joint of the exoskeleton is actuated in one direction (uni-directional actuation), such as a pneumatic piston only bending the knee, but is less effective when two joint actuators work in opposition (bi-directional actuation). An example of this would be ankle exoskeleton using one pneumatic artificial muscle for dorsiflexion based on tibialis anterior (shin muscle) EMG and another pneumatic artificial muscle for plantar flexion based on soleus (calf muscle) EMG. This could result in a large degree of co-activation of the two actuators and make walking more difficult. To correct for this unwanted co-activation, a rule can be added to the control scheme so that artificial dorsiflexor activation is inhibited when soleus EMG is above a set threshold. Proportional control with flexor inhibition allows for a more natural gait than with direct proportional control; flexor inhibition also allows subjects to walk much more easily with combined knee and ankle exoskeletons with bi-directional actuators at each joint.\n\nPerformance enhancement deals with increasing typical human capabilities, such as strength or endurance. Many full-body robotic exoskeletons currently in development use controllers based on joint torques and angles instead of electromyography. See Powered exoskeletons.\n\nOne application of a robot lower limb exoskeleton is to assist in the movement of a disabled individual in order to walk. Individuals with spinal cord injury, weakened leg muscles, poor neuromuscular control, or who have suffered a stroke could benefit from wearing such a device. The exoskeleton provides torque about a joint in the same direction that EMG data indicate the joint is rotating. For example, high EMG signals in the vastus medialis (a quadriceps muscle) and low EMG signals in the biceps femoris (a hamstring muscle) would indicate that the user is extending his/her leg, therefore the exoskeleton would provide torque on the knee to help straighten the leg.\n\nProportional myoelectric control and robotic exoskeletons have been used in upper limb devices for decades, but engineers have only recently begun using them for lower-limb devices to better understand human biomechanics and neural control of locomotion. By using an exoskeleton with a proportional myoelectric controller, scientists can use a non-invasive means of studying the neural plasticity associated with modifying a muscle's force (biological +/- artificial force), as well as how motor memories for locomotor control are formed.\n\nRobotic lower limb exoskeletons have the potential to help an individual recover from an injury such as a stroke, spinal cord injury, or other neurological disabilities. Neurological motor disorders often result in reduced volitional muscle activation amplitude, impaired proprioception, and disordered muscle coordination; a robotic exoskeleton with proportional myoelectric control can improve all three of these by amplifying the relationship between muscle activation and proprioceptive feedback. By increasing the consequences of muscle activation, an exoskeleton can improve sensory feedback in a physiological way, which in turn can improve motor control Individuals with spinal cord injury or who have had a stroke can improve their motor capabilities through intense gait rehabilitation, which can require up to three physical therapists to help partially support the body weight of the individual. Robotic lower limb exoskeletons could help in both of these areas.\n\nThe neuromuscular system has targeted joint torques it tries to generate while walking. Assistive exoskeletons produce some of the torque needed to move one or more leg joints while walking, which allows a healthy individual to generate less muscle torque in those joints and use less metabolic energy. The muscle torque is reduced enough to keep the net torque about each joint approximately the same as when walking without an exoskeleton. The net torque about each joint is the muscular torque plus the actuator torque. Disabled individuals do not see much of a decrease, if any, in muscular torque while walking with an exoskeleton because their muscles are not strong enough to walk with a normal gait, or at all; the exoskeleton provides the remaining torque needed for them to walk.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11155647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11155647", "title": "Pázmáneum", "text": "Pázmáneum\n\nThe Pázmáneum (in Latin Collegium Pazmanianum) is a university in Vienna, founded in 1623 by Péter Pázmány as a seminary for Hungarian theological candidates. It was created at a cost of 200,000 florins.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17432427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17432427", "title": "Question Writer", "text": "Question Writer\n\nQuestion Writer is a quiz authoring tool for Microsoft Windows. It is used for authoring questions and compiling them into quizzes in the Flash file format. The software is published by Central Question.\n\nThe user interface treats each quiz as a separate document. The document interface makes available the questions in a tree-view on the left hand side and a large preview pane on the right hand side. This pane can display a preview of the question, section or entire quiz. The software uses a multiple document interface allowing a number of quizzes to be open simultaneously. Drag and drop is used to re-order questions within a quiz and copy questions between quizzes.\n\nQuestion Writer is in its third iteration and comes in three editions, 'Basic', 'Standard' and 'Professional'. The Basic version is made freely available for personal use but is restricted to multiple choice questions. The Standard version has a wider range of question types, features and quiz themes. The Professional version adds more advanced features, notably a partial credit question and question pooling.\n\nQuestion Writer users create quizzes by adding questions and choosing the settings that apply to the quiz. The main settings allow changes to do with question randomization and selection, time limits, the reporting and feedback level, the marking scheme and the passing score.\n\n8 question types can be used, those are\n\nThe manual is available online as a WikiBook.\n\nQuizzes can be published for the web, in which case a SWF is compiled and exported together with a small driver HTML and Javascript file. Quizzes can also be published as SCORM packages, in which case the files are published inside a SCORM 1.2 compliant zip file. Question Writer is notable in that it compiles all the resources of a quiz into a single standalone SWF file.\n\nQuestion Writer makes use of various file formats. The main ones are:\n"}
{"id": "21615454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21615454", "title": "S3 Asia MBA", "text": "S3 Asia MBA\n\nS³ Asia MBA (also written as S3 Asia MBA or simply Asia MBA) is a selective dual degree, tri-city, tri-university global MBA program. Students enrolled in this program study one semester each at three business schools - School of Management of Fudan University, Korea University Business School of Korea University and NUS Business School of National University of Singapore. The name of the program, S³, is derived from the first letter of the three cities where the business schools are located: Shanghai, Seoul and Singapore. It is claimed that presently, the program is the only one of its type in the world.\n\nThe program was formally launched on the 28 February, 2008 at Korea University Business School. However, the idea had originally germinated when officials from the three universities met at a centennial celebration of the three universities. The tri-university colloquium between Fudan, KU and NUS first began in 2005. The universities founded the S³ University Alliance (S³UA) and sealed it with the Seoul Declaration for Collaboration at the Tri-University Colloquium in Seoul on 19 May, 2006.\n\nThe program consists of three semesters conducted across three leading Asian business schools: School of Management, Fudan University, Shanghai, China; Korea University Business School, Korea University, Seoul, South Korea; and NUS Business School, National University of Singapore, Singapore. The three business schools are, respectively, #89, #86 and #36 on the 2013 list of world's top 100 business schools by the Financial Times.\n\nThe program starts at School of Management, Fudan University (Shanghai) with a mandatory three-day orientation program. The orientation is a collaborative exercise which teaches team spirit, knowledge sharing, strategic decision making and cultural values to the participants. Upon the completion of the orientation program, students are awarded a certificate.\n\nThe first semester curriculum is articulate and provides an understanding of the major management sciences subjects.\n\nFirst semester courses (listed alphabetically): Asian Business Insights I (Field Trip); Basic Chinese (non-credit, optional); Business in China; Data, Models, and Decisions (DMD); Financial Accounting (FA); Managerial Communication (MC); Managerial Economics (ME); Organizational Behavior (OB); Politics (mandatory for Chinese nationals). In addition, there is an optional, certificate course on banking named \"Citi-Fudan University Banking Course\", delivered by senior executives of Citi.\n\nThe Business in China course is divided into four equal parts, with each part delivered by a different professor. Each part focuses on a different dimension of doing business inside China.\n\nForeign students may get a room booked in Fudan's International Student Dormitory or in the Tonghe International Student Village, which is a private dormitory with hotel-like services. A majority of foreign students prefer staying at Tonghe.\n\nThe second semester starts during peak winter at Seoul. After the initial registration and an orientation trip, students are given a break of about a week to explore the city and to settle down.\n\nThis semester is divided into two modules (sub-semesters) with Asian Business Insights II (Field Trip) sandwiched between the two modules. The primary teaching method used during this semester for all courses is the case method. In addition to the regular classes, there are some special guest lectures held jointly with the Global MBA class of KUBS.\n\nSecond semester courses (listed alphabetically): Asian Business Insights II (Field Trip); Basic Korean or Business English (non-credit, optional); Business Ethics in Asian Companies; Business in Korea and Japan; Corporate Finance; Management Information Systems (MIS); Managerial Accounting; Marketing Management; Operations and Process Management (OPM).\n\nThe third semester at NUS Business School starts with several activities - a multi-day Orientation and a two-day team-building session at Outward Bound Singapore, as well as the NUS Orientation Graduation Dinner. In this semester students are able to select elective courses, allowing them to specialize (although both degrees given under S³ Asia MBA are General Management degrees).\n\nIn addition to the core courses, students can typically choose three electives (although it is also possible to choose four electives). It is at NUS Business School that the S³ Asia MBA class mingles with the NUS MBA cohort, exchange students from foreign schools, and also the part-time MBA students. In addition, students can also take up cross-faculty courses, allowing them to, for example, work with engineering students.\n\nThird semester courses (listed alphabetically): Advanced Business English (mandatory for Fudan students and optional for KU/NUS students); Asia Pacific Business; Asian Business Insights III (Field Trip); Corporate Strategy; Elective 1; Elective 2; Elective 3 (it is possible to choose four electives by taking up two half-modules).\n\nUpon the successful completion of the program, students are awarded two MBA degrees: a degree from a student's \"home university\" and a degree from a second university of choice. Candidates are awarded S³ Asia MBA program certificate signed by the three deans from FDSM, KUBS and NUS Business School.\n\nFor students with their home university as FDSM and KUBS, GMAT is a requirement if a student seeks NUS for his/her second degree. For students with KUBS or NUS as the home university, a second degree from Fudan requires defending a thesis (in the 4th semester at Fudan). For FDSM or NUS students, there is no special requirement to have a second degree from KUBS.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53216675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53216675", "title": "Sarah Ann Blocker", "text": "Sarah Ann Blocker\n\nSarah Ann Blocker (October 27, 1857 – April 15, 1944) was an American educator, a founder of Florida Memorial College. She was inducted into the Florida Women's Hall of Fame in 2003.\n\nBlocker earned her teaching certificate in Atlanta in 1883.\n\nBlocker taught at Florida Baptist Academy from 1892, and was head of the normal department there. Blocker is credited with co-founding Florida Memorial College by arranging the merger of Florida Baptist Institute and Florida Baptist Academy, to form the Florida Memorial and Industrial Memorial Institute. Blocker was Dean of Women at the Institute by 1935. One of her students at Florida Baptist Academy was philanthropist Eartha M. M. White.\n\nSarah Ann Blocker died in 1944, aged 86 years. In 2003, Sarah Ann Blocker was inducted into the Florida Women's Hall of Fame by Governor Jeb Bush. The following year, she received a posthumous honorary doctorate as part of the 125th anniversary celebration at Florida Memorial University. There is a Sarah A. Blocker Meritorious Service Award given annually by Florida Memorial University.\n"}
{"id": "39506529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39506529", "title": "Sharmila Biswas", "text": "Sharmila Biswas\n\nSharmila Biswas is a noted Indian classical dancer and choreographer in the Odissi, and a disciple of guru Kelucharan Mohapatra. In 1995, she established Odissi Vision and Movement Center in Kolkata, where she is the Artistic Director, the centre also has OVM Repertory.\n\nIn 2012, Biswas was awarded Sangeet Natak Akademi Award, conferred by the Sangeet Natak Akademi, India's National Academy for Music, Dance and Drama.\n\nBiswas was born and brought up in Kolkata, where she started learning dance from the age of eight. When she was sixteen years old, she started training in Odissi under Muralidharan Majhi, and then trained under Kelucharan Mohapatra.\n\nSubsequently, she learnt \"abhinaya\" from Kalanidhi Narayanan.\n\nSharmila married Swapan Kumar Biswas in 1987, who is a doctor specialising in health management. The couple lives in Kolkata and have a son Shoumik Biswas.\n\nOver the years, Biswas participated in performing arts festivals at Elephanta, Khajuraho Dance Festival and Konark Dance Festival and in UK, the USA, Germany, Russia, Dubai and Bangladesh. She performs both classical Odissi as well as her experimental choreographic works.\n\nShe has also done extensive research on the ancient Mahari dance performed by temple dancers of Orissa. In 1995, she established Odissi Vision and Movement Center (OVM) in Kolkata, where is the Artistic Director, and trains young dancer, the institute also run the OVM Repertory.\n\nIn 2009, she started \"Poorva Dhara\", an annual festival of traditional dances of East and North East India.\n\nShe was conferred the \"Best Choreography Award\" from the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Govt. of India, for her dance production, \"Sampurna\" based on the devdasis of Puri. In 1998, Uday Shankar Award for Best Choreography in 1998 from the Department of Information and Broadcasting, Government of West Bengal. In 2010, Biswas was conferred the Mahari Awards. In 2012, she was awarded the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award, the highest award for performing artists, conferred by the Sangeet Natak Akademi, India's National Academy for Music, Dance and Drama.\n\n"}
{"id": "54825655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54825655", "title": "Social Education", "text": "Social Education\n\nSocial Education is a peer-reviewed academic journal covering social studies education in the United States. It is published by the National Council for the Social Studies.\n\nThe National Council for the Social Studies's first president, Albert Edward McKinley (1870-1936), also served as the journal's publisher and managing editor. The publication was establishedted in 1930 as \"Historical Outlook\". In 1937 it became the official journal of the council, obtaining its current name.\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in EBSCO databases and the Modern Language Association Database.\n"}
{"id": "11539560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11539560", "title": "Southern Careers Institute", "text": "Southern Careers Institute\n\nSouthern Careers Institute is a private, for-profit school with seven locations across Texas. The school was founded in 1960. The school is accredited by the Commission of the Council on Occupational Education.\n\nSouthern Careers Institute is approved by the Texas Workforce Commission and the Texas Department of Assistive and Rehabilitative Services. The programs are approved for VA funding by the Veterans Administration.\n\nBetween 1992 and 2014, Southern Careers Institute has increased the number of campuses across Texas. SCI currently has seven physical locations in Texas:\n\nAs of 2014, Southern Careers Institute has one or more programs available in an online format to students across Texas. In 2016 the school partnered with CoderCamps to provide a Full Stack Javascript Program. As of October 2017, SCI is Partnered with WOZ-U to provide Software Developing online with language options in JAVA, C#, JavaScript and Ruby. \n\nSCI offers programs in the following areas:\n\nPrograms vary by campus\n\n"}
{"id": "7723485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7723485", "title": "Tawjihi", "text": "Tawjihi\n\nTawjihi or Al-Tawjihi (امتحان شهادة الدراسة الثانوية العامة) is the General Secondary Education Certificate Examination in Jordan. It is the last stage of school education. To sit for the exam, students are required to finish 2 years of pre-school education, 10 years of basic education, and 2 years of secondary academic or vocational education. Subjects in the exam include Arabic, English, Mathematics, Physics, Biology, Chemistry, Computer Science, Geology, Civil Studies and Islamic studies (unless Christian). \n\nOnly those who pass the exam with a good mark may apply to proceed to university. For example, to be accepted to study medicine you must take the scientific stream in the last 3 years of the secondary education and get a mark not less than 95 degree out of 100 in Tawjihi exam. \n\nForeign secondary education programs such as GCE/IGCSE/GCSE, SATs, and International Baccalaureate require to have Tawjihi-equivalency, so that the student could later work in Jordan or proceed to a higher education in Jordan.\n\nUpon graduation, the ministry of Higher Education transforms the Grades/Marks of these foreign educational programs, into the same marks used in grading Tawjihi students. However, even after the equivalency transformation, non-Tawjihi graduates are not allowed to compete with Tawjihi graduates for public university places. For non-Tawjihi graduates, there is a set quota of 5% of places. Most graduates of foreign programs end up paying international fees to get a place in their desired faculty. \n\nRegarding the system used to transform exam results of foreign education programs into the Tawjihi scale, which is a percentage out of 100, some see the system is fair and in fact over lenient with non-Tawjihi graduates, while others see it as unfair. Below is a summary of the requirements of the Ministry of education to receive an equivalency to the Jordanian Tawjihi. \n\nGeneral conditions:\nThe final percentage of a score is calculated as follows:\n\nA* = 98 C = 75\n\nA = 95 D = 65\n\nB = 85 E = 55\n\n8 subject percentages(6GCSEs/IGCSEs, 2 A'level subjects) are added up and then the total is divided by 8.\n\nFor The international baccalaureate the equivalency goes as follows:\nEach subject is calculated individually then they are summed up and divided by 6, then a 0.3% is added for each point scored from the diploma program\n\nAn example of equivalency for a science stream student:\nHe obtained a score of 35. A 7 (98%) in Chemistry HL, a 6 (90%) in Physics SL, a 4 (70%) in ITGS SL, a 5 (80%) in Mathematics SL, a 5 (80%) in Arabic A1 SL, a 6 (90%) in English B SL and 2 marks from ToK and EE (0.3%×2=0.6%).\nHere is the calculation:\n\n"}
{"id": "4206877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4206877", "title": "UCAS Teacher Training", "text": "UCAS Teacher Training\n\nUCAS Teacher Training, formerly the Graduate Teacher Training Registry (GTTR), is the subsidiary of UCAS responsible for student applications from graduates (and those about to graduate) to providers of Initial Teacher Training in the United Kingdom. Applications are filled out online via the UCAS website.\n\nThe Registry was founded in 1960 and was run in close association with the Central Register and Clearing House. Although the number of students on relevant courses did not exceed a few hundred at the time, rapid expansion was envisaged in view of both the likely increase in graduate numbers in general and the expectation that training would soon be made compulsory for graduates entering teaching.\n\nOfficials at the Ministry of Education feared that the need to spend time training would deter graduates in shortage subjects and age ranges from entering teaching, while teachers' organisations argued that training was required more urgently than ever, and, further, that the rate of graduates leaving teaching was in fact higher among the untrained than the trained. The National Advisory Council on the Training and Supply of Teachers unanimously advised the Secretary of State in 1963 that compulsory professional training should be introduced. Finally, in 1969 the decision was made that training would be required for those graduating after 31 December 1969 who wished to teach in state primary schools, and for those graduating after 31 December 1973 who wished to teach in state secondary schools.\n\nThe name of the GTTR as the application route had already appeared in careers material, for example in an article in \"The Times\" advising aspiring Drama teachers to apply to the Registry at 151 Gower Street, London WC1. The GTTR was a valuable statistical source, and Parliament was informed that in 1968-9 5269 graduate applications were processed, resulting in 4239 acceptances.\n\nThe GTTR moved to 3 Crawford Place, London W1 and again was closely integrated with the CRCH. The latter admissions body was wound up and merged with UCAS in 1992. The GTTR came under the umbrella of this new body, and moved to its premises in Cheltenham. Annual statistics are published on its website.\n"}
{"id": "1947894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947894", "title": "University of Puerto Rico School of Medicine", "text": "University of Puerto Rico School of Medicine\n\nThe University of Puerto Rico, Medical Sciences Campus, School of Medicine is located in the University of Puerto Rico, Medical Sciences Campus in San Juan, Puerto Rico. It's the only medical school in the University of Puerto Rico System. It is accredited by the Liaison Committee on Medical Education (LCME). Its students are predominantly Puerto Rican residents. It is also considered the best bilingual medical school in the world due to its requirement for each admitted student to fully master both English and Spanish.\n\nIn the nineteenth century, major health problems affected the Puerto Rican population. Anemia, malnutrition and parasitism were some of the most common conditions in children and adults. With the arrival of U.S. troops in 1898, the need for effective health plans to serve the population became a priority. With the change of sovereignty, anemia commissions were established in Puerto Rico. Thus began the development of what would become the Institute of Tropical Medicine, which was formalized in 1912.\n\nA consolidation of the former Institute of Tropical Medicine and other entities led in 1926 to the formation of the School of Tropical Medicine. Funds from Columbia University were used for the training of different health professionals in the island. At the same time, the school's professors conducted studies in collaboration with Columbia University physicians on tropical diseases hitherto of unknown etiology, or of high prevalence morbidity and mortality in Puerto Rico. In 1946 following the end of World War II, Columbia University canceled the money sent to the Medical School, which led to its closure. The legislature authorized a School of Medicine at the University of Puerto Rico, into which the School of Tropical Medicine was integrated.\n\nThe need for a State Medical School led in 1950 to the creation of the University of Puerto Rico School of Medicine as part of the University of Puerto Rico System, thanks to efforts made by the lawyer and first president of the University, Jaime Benitez. It began with an enrollment of 52 students. The school received its accreditation on 20 April 1954. In 1960, the University established a graduate program, unique in Puerto Rico, along with other medical services and research. Distinguished professors from European countries and Latin America visited the School for academics, research and consultation.\n\nAdán Nigaglioni Loyola was dean from 1963 to 1967.\n\nThe curriculum of the program leading to the Doctor of Medicine degree is designed following the trends of modern medical education and takes into consideration the health needs of the community. It is divided into two major components: two years of required biomedical sciences and two years of clinical clerkships. The School of Medicine MD Program is fully accredited by the Liaison Committee on Medical Education.\n\nPrograms leading to:\nMaster of Science (M.S.) and Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in:\n\nAnatomy, Biochemistry, Pharmacology and Toxicology, Physiology, Microbiology and Medical Zoology Biology through an intercampus (UPR-Medical Sciences and Rio Piedras) program.\n\nDepartments:\n\nACGME Accredited Speciality Programs:\n\nAnesthesiology, Dermatology, Diagnostic Radiology, Emergency Medicine, Family Medicine, Internal Medicine, Neurology, Neurosurgery, Obstetrics-Gynecology, Ophthalmology, Orthopedic Surgery, Otolaryngology, Pathology, Pediatrics, Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Psychiatry, Surgery and Urology.\n\nACGME Accredited Sub-Speciality Programs:\n\nCardiovascular Disease, Child and adolescent psychiatry, Endocrinology, Family Practice-Geriatrics, Gastroenterology, Geriatric Medicine, Hematology/Oncology, Infectious Diseases, Neonatology, Nephrology, Neuromuscular Medicine, Nuclear Medicine, Pediatric Critical Care Medicine, Pediatric Hematology/Oncology, Pediatric Neurology, Pulmonology and Rheumatology.\n\n"}
{"id": "44377963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44377963", "title": "Wolfgang Jonas", "text": "Wolfgang Jonas\n\nWolfgang Jonas is a professor for designtheory in the design-faculty at the HBK-Braunschweig, Germany.\nHe is a trained engineer in ship construction. His theories have influenced the latest developments in German \"Designtheorie\" - designtheory.\n\n\n"}
