{"id": "4238022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4238022", "title": "1976 world oil market chronology", "text": "1976 world oil market chronology\n\n\"Official price of Saudi Light remains at $12.37 per barrel throughout 1976.\"\n|-\n"}
{"id": "231407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231407", "title": "Abraham ibn Daud", "text": "Abraham ibn Daud\n\nAbraham ibn Daud (; ) was a Spanish-Jewish astronomer, historian, and philosopher; born at Cordoba, Spain about 1110; died in Toledo, Spain, according to common report, a martyr about 1180. He is sometimes known by the abbreviation Rabad I or Ravad I. His mother belonged to a family famed for its learning.\n\n\nIbn Daud was the first to introduce the phase of Jewish philosophy which is generally attributed to Maimonides and which differs from former systems of philosophy mainly in its more thorough systematic form derived from Aristotle. Accordingly, Hasdai Crescas mentions Ibn Daud as the only Jewish philosopher among the predecessors of Maimonides (\"Or Adonai\", ch. i.). But having been completely overshadowed by Maimonides' classical work, the \"Moreh Nebukim\", Abraham ibn Daud's \"Emunah Ramah\" (\"Sublime Faith\"), a work to which Maimonides himself was indebted for many valuable suggestions, received scant notice from later philosophers.\n\nThe only Jewish philosophical works that Ibn Daud had before him, according to his own statement (\"Emunah Ramah,\" p. 2, or in German trans., p. 3), were Saadia's \"Emunot we-De'ot\", and \"The Fountain of Life\" by Solomon ibn Gabirol. On the one hand, he fully recognizes the merits of Saadia Gaon, although he does not adopt his views on the freedom of the will, notwithstanding that the solution of this problem was to be the chief aim and purpose of his whole system (\"Emunah Ramah,\" p. 98; German trans., p. 125). On the other hand, his attitude toward Gabirol is entirely antagonistic, and even in the preface to his \"Emunah Ramah\" he pitilessly condemns Gabirol's \"Fountain of Life.\" See Kaufmann, \"Studien über Solomon ibn Gabirol,\" Budapest, 1899.\n\nBeing the first strict Aristotelian among the Jews—who considered Aristotle and his Arabic commentators, Alfarabi and Ibn Sina, to be the only true philosophers (ib. pp. 23, 50, 62; German trans., pp. 30, 65, 78)—Ibn Daud feels himself provoked to constant opposition by the doctrines of Gabirol, who represents the Neoplatonic philosophy. Impartial enough to accord to childlike faith its full rights, Ibn Daud desires also to defend the rights of reason, and, consequently, resists with the utmost energy any attempt to set bounds to science; regarding this as a culpable encroachment upon the plan of the Divine Ruler, who did not endow man with the faculty of thought without intent.\n\nTrue philosophy, according to Ibn Daud, does not entice us from religion; it tends rather to strengthen and solidify it. Moreover, it is the duty of every thinking Jew to become acquainted with the harmony existing between the fundamental doctrines of Judaism and those of philosophy, and, wherever they seem to contradict one another, to seek a mode of reconciling them. Ibn Daud insists that, however highly philosophy may be valued, the religion of Judaism is preferable. Knowledge, which had been acquired by philosophers through the evolution of several thousands of years, and after overcoming the gravest errors, had been bestowed upon Judaism from the beginning through revelation (ib. p. 62; German trans., p. 79). As to moral truths, it may be even assumed as probable that the philosophers did not attain to them through independent study, but rather under the influence of the doctrines of Holy Scripture (ib. p. 101; German trans., p. 130).\n\nIt is true that on certain points ibn Daud could not always avoid conflict with the doctrines of Aristotle: this was especially true in regard to the latter's theory of the creation. According to Aristotle, all coming into being results from the fusion of matter into a certain form; matter, therefore, is the necessary basis for any genesis; primary matter itself, as the substance common to all things existent, must, therefore, be without beginning and must be eternal. But the acceptance of preexistent and eternal matter can not be reconciled with the Biblical history of creation, which implies a creation out of nothing, and subject to time. From this conflict, which later caused Maimonides to dispute the authority of Aristotle in all matters transcendental, Ibn Daud was not able to extricate himself; and, therefore, he rather tries to glide over the existing difficulties than to solve them. For he represents the course of creation as a series of creative acts; which recalls Gabirol's doctrine concerning the succession of the various substances. But he himself subsequently admits that this was only a hypothesis to satisfy the need of giving an architectonic finish to our notions, intended to mark that gradual process of things which would result, had creation really gone through all the stages of existence, from primary matter, which is imperceptible to us, to all individual things, though some of these stages may be regarded as partly existing only in abstract notions. To concede the possibility of such a gradual process of creation, however, would be, according to ibn Daud, a contradiction of our conception of God's mode of acting.\n\nAs to the doctrine of God, Abraham ibn Daud, like Aristotle and his Arabic interpreters, proceeding from the principle of motion, and basing his argument upon the proof of the impossibility of a regressus in infinitum, arrives at the conception of a First Cause of all motion, or of a Prime Mover, who Itself, as First Cause, can not have any other cause of motion above It, and must, therefore, be thought of as motionless. The Prime Mover is God. But this proof of the existence of God leaves still open two important questions relating to the truth of our knowledge of God: one concerning the incorporeality, and the other respecting the unity of God.\n\nAs to the incorporeality of God, it follows logically from the notion of infinity which belongs to the First Cause of motion that no corporeal thing can be infinite itself; nor can infinite force be attributed to it. But the Prime Mover is infinite; for, since it itself is without motion, it's force also remains unaffected by the motion of change and transformation. Therefore, the Prime Mover—that is, God—can not be corporeal (ib. p. 47; German trans., p. 60).\n\nBut as a being of necessary existence, God must also be absolutely simple and single; inasmuch as the conception of a plurality in its essence would, at the same time, nullify the notion of the necessity of It's existence. For the consolidation of this plurality into a unity must have been effected by another being different from itself; hence the existence of this plural being would be no more necessary, that is, determined by its own essence, but would be dependent upon that other being which brought about the unification (ib. p. 49; German trans., p. 63).\n\nFrom the notion of absolute unity results the conception of the uniqueness of God; for if two beings of this kind could exist, the unity of God would be nullified, since to one, at least, of the units a special character must be attributed so as to distinguish it from the other (ib.). With the doctrine of the unity of God is connected the doctrine of the divine attributes, which is preceded in Abraham ibn Daud's system by the doctrine of the negative attributes, already accepted by Bahya ibn Paquda (\"Ḥobot ha-Lebabot,\" i. 10) and by Judah ha-Levi (Kuzari, ii. 2) from the older Arabic theology. According to Ibn Daud, only negative attributes, in the strict and proper sense, can be imputed to God; so that, whatever multiplicity of these negative attributes may be ascribed to It, no multiplicity in the essence of God can result. Certainly this is equivalent to a renunciation of a positive conception of the Divine Being; for negative statements may suffice to prevent erroneous ideas, but a positive knowledge can never be obtained through them alone (ib. p. 5; German trans., p. 65). Indeed, our whole knowledge of God is limited to two certainties, (1) that It exists and (2) that It's essence is incomprehensible (ib. p. 56; German trans., p. 71). In addition to the negative attributes, only relative attributes can be predicated of God; for even these latter, how many soever may be assumed, since they do not apply to the essence of God but only to It's relation to the world, produce no modification in the notion of the unity of the Divine Being (ib. p. 54; German trans., p. 69).\n\nFrom the speculative doctrines of faith, the truth of which can be proved only by reasoning, are to be distinguished the historical dogmas whose authenticity is based principally upon divine revelation, or, to speak more exactly, upon the historical tradition of such a revelation (ib. p. 69; German trans., p. 87). The tradition concerning an event that is reported to have taken place publicly before a great body of men, which originated, so to say, under the control of public opinion, without having been disputed by contemporaries, and has descended with an uninterrupted continuity, possesses an argumentativeness which can not be controverted even by the professional logician (ib. pp. 78, 81; German trans., pp. 98, 103). The trustworthiness of historical tradition forms a presumption in favor of the truth of prophecy. In the true sense of the word, according to the axioms established above for the reliability of historical tradition, there can be only assertion of real prophecy when the divine revelations apply to important public matters; while those revelations which pertain to less important matters, or even to the personal affairs of a single individual, can not be classed under this head (ib. p. 71; German trans., p. 89). Thus, as ibn Daud remarks, perhaps with a reference to the miracles attributed to Jesus, the authenticity of the Torah would be in a sorry plight if, instead of being based on miracles of real historic certainty, such as those of Moses, it were supported merely by miracles of such private character as the resurrections effected by Elijah and Elisha (ib. p. 80; German trans., p. 101).\n\nRelying upon the doctrines of Alfarabi and of Ibn Sina, Ibn Daud, whom Maimonides follows in many ways in his conception of prophecy, further sets forth that the gift of prophecy must not be considered as a phenomenon, interrupting the continuity of the development of the human mind, but in a certain sense as the final stage of a natural evolution whose lower phases, though they must be distinguished from prophecy proper, are nevertheless connected with the same faculty through a certain identity of nature. And even if the true stage of prophecy is reached, this gift is, nevertheless, still capable of progressive development, although it may exceptionally at once reach the highest perfection in particularly gifted individuals.\n\nThe connection between the mind of the prophet and the higher intellects, principally with the Active Intelligence, furnishes a sufficient explanation of the higher cognitive faculty of the prophet, as well as of his power of transcending natural law. Appointed to become an intermediary between God and man, the prophet is elevated almost to the plane of the separated intelligences, or angels (ib. p. 73; German trans., p. 91).\n\nBased upon the philosophical system developed above, and after the exposition of the doctrine of faith, the problem of human free will and its relation to faith in a divine providence, or predestination, may be regarded as much nearer its solution. The objection that faith in a divine providence is inconsistent with the existence of evil in the world, because God can not be the author of evil and good at the same time, is refuted by the fact that evil has no existence in itself, but is only the natural result of the absence of actual good, and that, consequently, evil needs no creator. The defects and imperfections which appear in this world are in nowise contradictory to the wisdom and goodness of God. The defects appear only to a finite conception which considers things separately and in themselves, and not in their connection with the whole. Viewed from a higher standpoint the imperfections adhering to things or individuals would perhaps, in their relation to the whole, even prove to be perfections and advantages (ib. p. 95; German trans., p. 121).\n\nThe human free-will as a subjective principle has for its objective correlate the notion of possibility, by which one of two alternatives may occur. This does not cause the divine omniscience to undergo any limitation; unless, misled by common usage, one should designate as \"possible\" those things whose undetermined state results not from their own essence, but only from our deficient knowledge of the essence. But this kind of possibility, which, indeed, is no possibility at all, must be eliminated from God as quite irreconcilable with His omniscience. In its strict and precise form, the notion of possibility is not at all antagonistic to the omniscience of God; for it is easily conceivable that God from the beginning regulated creation, so that for certain cases both alternatives should be \"possible\" events; that the Creator, in order to grant to human liberty the opportunity to display its own energy, left the final issue of certain actions undecided even for His own knowledge (ib. p. 96; German trans., p. 123).\n\nHuman free-will, it is true, suffers a certain limitation through the variety of moral dispositions, partly due to natural causes, to be found in single individuals, as also in entire nations. But man is able to overcome his natural disposition and appetites, and to lift himself to a higher plane of morality, by purifying and ennobling himself (ib. p. 97; German trans., p. 124). The Torah, and the study of ethics which forms a part of practical philosophy and is designated, by an expression borrowed from Plato (\"Gorgias,\" 464), as the \"doctrine of the healing of souls,\" are the guiding stars to this exalted plane; but no scientific presentation of practical philosophy approaches in this regard the lofty heights of the Scriptures, wherein are clearly expressed the most sublime moral principles known to philosophers (ib. pp. 98, 101; German trans., pp. 126, 130).\n\nThe ceremonial laws also serve the purpose of moral education, and are, therefore, in view of their ethical tendency, to be numbered among the moral laws; although when compared with the doctrines of faith and the ethical laws proper, they have only a subordinate importance, as the Holy Scriptures also attribute to the sacrifices a relatively minor importance in comparison with the moral laws (ib. p. 102; German trans., p. 131).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8922786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8922786", "title": "Antoni Gołubiew", "text": "Antoni Gołubiew\n\nAntoni Gołubiew (February 25, 1907 in Vilnius – June 27, 1979 in Kraków), nicknames Goa, Jan Karol Wayda, Jerzy Cichocki, was a Polish historian, writer and a Catholic publicist. He was one of the cofounders of the pre World War II biweekly \"Pax\". After the war he wrote for the magazines \"Znak\", \"Odra\", and \"Tygodnik Powszechny\". He was also one of the organizers (together with, among others, Czesław Miłosz) of the poetry group Zagary. He is best known as the author of the four volume historical epic \"Boleslaw Chrobry\" which was written over the whole lifetime of the author. This epic tells the story of the founding and first years of existence of the Polish state.\n"}
{"id": "23574574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23574574", "title": "Bandele Omoniyi", "text": "Bandele Omoniyi\n\nBandele Omoniyi (6 November 1884 – 1913) was a Nigerian nationalist who is best known for his book \"A Defence of the Ethiopian Movement\" (1908), which urged for political reforms in the colonies, warning that otherwise a revolution in Africa might end British rule. According to Hakim Adi, he is one of the earliest examples of the politically active West African student in Britain.\n\nBandele Omoniyi was born in Lagos, in present-day Nigeria, and his parents sold their land to finance his studies in Britain, where Omoniyi first went in 1905. Enrolling at Edinburgh University in 1906 to study law, he eventually gave up his studies as he became increasingly involved in political activities, taking up anti-imperial journalism in socialist, Scottish and Nigerian publications. He wrote to various British politicians, including the Prime Minister, Henry Campbell-Bannerman, and the future Labour Party leader Ramsay MacDonald, demanding representation for Africans in the colonies. In 1907 Omoniyi criticised colonial rule in a series of letters to the \"Edinburgh Magazine\". He also wrote articles for the West African press, and in 1908 published his major work, \"A Defence of the Ethiopian Movement\", in Edinburgh, dedicating it \"to The Right Honourable and Honourable Members of the British Parliament\".\n\nOmoniyi later moved to Brazil around 1910, where he was subsequently arrested for his political activities. He refused assistance from the British Consul. Imprisoned, he contracted beriberi and died, aged 28.\n"}
{"id": "584255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=584255", "title": "Carry On Behind", "text": "Carry On Behind\n\nCarry On Behind is the 27th in the series of \"Carry On\" films to be made, and was released in December 1975. It was the first not to be scripted by Talbot Rothwell since \"Carry On Cruising\" 13 years previously. Also missing was series stalwart Sid James. James was busy touring in a play, while Rothwell's health prevented him from writing. The regular actors present are Kenneth Williams, Kenneth Connor, Jack Douglas, Joan Sims and Peter Butterworth, Bernard Bresslaw and Patsy Rowlands. \"Carry On Behind\" was the final picture in the series for Bresslaw (in his 14th appearance) and Rowlands (in her ninth). It saw Elke Sommer's, Adrienne Posta's, Sherrie Hewson's and Ian Lavender's only appearances in a \"Carry On\" and was the first of two entries in the series for Windsor Davies.\n\nFrustrated butcher Fred Ramsden (Windsor Davies) and his dim electrician friend Ernie Bragg (Jack Douglas) happily head off for a holiday trip at the Riverside Caravan Site, while their respective wives Sylvia (Liz Fraser) and Vera (Patricia Franklin) look forward to their health farm holiday. Once at the caravan site of Major Leaper (Kenneth Connor), Fred starts making eyes at two young female campers, Carol (Sherrie Hewson) and Sandra (Carol Hawkins). However, as Ernie talks in his sleep and any infidelities are likely to be spoken of in the marital bed after their holiday, Fred is despondent. Professor Roland Crump (Kenneth Williams) teams with Roman expert Anna Vrooshka (Elke Sommer) in an archaeological dig at the site. Arthur Upmore (Bernard Bresslaw) and his wife Linda (Patsy Rowlands) are saddled with her mother Daphne (Joan Sims) and her vulgar mynah bird. Arthur is caught in a compromising position with attractive blonde Norma Baxter (Adrienne Posta) whose husband Joe (Ian Lavender) is lumbered with their giant wolfhound. After a few pints with the amused pub landlord (David Lodge), Fred and Ernie discover that the caravan site is riddled with excavation holes. Daphne is perturbed by the discovery that her estranged husband Henry Barnes (Peter Butterworth) lives a downtrodden life as the camp's odd-job man, despite having won the pools. Major Leaper is determined to give the place a boost and arranges an evening cabaret for the caravanners, but a mix-up over the phone secures a stripper, Veronica (Jenny Cox), rather than the singer he wanted. Carol and Sandra having hooked up with archaeology students Bob (Brian Osborne) and Clive (Larry Dann), Fred and Ernie pick up Maureen (Diana Darvey) and Sally (Georgina Moon), two beautiful young women from the village. Some wet paint, some glue, heavy rain that causes the tunnels of the dig to collapse, and the arrival of their wives soon bring their planned night of passion to a halt.\n\nThe main roles are played by \"Carry On\" regulars Kenneth Williams, Bernard Bresslaw, Peter Butterworth, Joan Sims, Kenneth Connor, Jack Douglas and Patsy Rowlands. Newcomers to the series in major roles are Windsor Davies and Elke Sommer. Sims played the role of Rowlands's mother, despite being only eight months older than her on-screen daughter.\n\nSupporting roles are played by Sherrie Hewson, Carol Hawkins, Ian Lavender, Adrienne Posta, George Layton, Larry Dann, Larry Martyn and David Lodge. These supporting players were mostly recognisable comedy actors at the time, but not long-term regular members of the \"Carry On\" team. Liz Fraser had appeared in three early films in the series; her re-appearance here was after a gap of twelve years.\n\nThis was the last \"Carry On\" film for Bernard Bresslaw and Patsy Rowlands. By this time Sid James, Terry Scott, Hattie Jacques and Charles Hawtrey had already made their final \"Carry On\" film appearances.\n\nChilly spring filming meant the bare trees, muddy fields and icy breath are all quite visible, although the setting is a summer caravanning holiday. A similar dilemma met the cast and crew in \"Carry On Camping\". The signage in Fred Ramsden's butcher's shop clearly shows that the shop is closing for the Easter holidays, which can occur as early as March.\n\nWhilst this film was in production, Bernard Bresslaw and Joan Sims also appeared in \"One of Our Dinosaurs Is Missing\", another film being made at Pinewood Studios alongside \"Carry On Behind\". Previous \"Carry On\" actors Jon Pertwee and Amanda Barrie also appeared in \"Dinosaurs\".\n\n\nInteriors:\n\nExteriors:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3513024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3513024", "title": "Castro culture", "text": "Castro culture\n\nCastro culture (, , , ) is the archaeological term for the material culture of the north-western regions of the Iberian Peninsula (present-day northern Portugal together with Galicia, Asturias, Castile and León, Cantabria and Basque Country) from the end of the Bronze Age (c. 9th century BC) until it was subsumed by Roman culture (c. 1st century BC). \nIt is the culture associated with the Celtiberians, closely associated to the western Hallstatt horizon of Central Europe. \n\nThe most notable characteristics of this culture are: its walled oppida and hill forts, known locally as \"castros\", from Latin \"castrum\" \"castle\", and the scarcity of visible burial practices, in spite of the frequent depositions of prestige items and goods, swords and other metallic riches in rocky outcrops, rivers and other aquatic contexts since the Atlantic Bronze Age. This cultural area extended east to the Cares river and south into the lower Douro river valley.\n\nThe area of Ave Valley was the core region of this culture, with a large number of small Castro settlements, but also including larger oppida, the \"cividades\" (from Latin \"civitas\", city), some known as \"citânias\" by archaeologists, due to their city-like structure: Cividade de Bagunte (\"Civitas Bogonti\"), Cividade de Terroso (\"Civitas Terroso\"), Citânia de Briteiros, and Citânia de Sanfins.\n\nThe Castro culture emerged during the first two centuries of the first millennium BCE, in the region extending from the Douro river up to the Minho, but soon expanding north along the coast, and east following the river valleys, reaching the mountain ranges which separate the Atlantic coast of the Iberian peninsula from the central plateau or \"meseta\". It was the result of the autonomous evolution of Atlantic Bronze Age communities, after the local collapse of the long range Atlantic network of interchange of prestige items.\n\nFrom the Mondego river up to the Minho river, along the coastal areas of northern Portugal, during the last two centuries of the second millennium BCE a series of settlements were established in high, well communicated places, radiating from a core area north of the Mondego, and usually specializing themselves in the production of Atlantic Bronze Age metallurgy: cauldrons, knives, bronze vases, roasting spits, flesh-hooks, swords, axes and jewelry relating to a noble elite who celebrated ritual banquets and who participated in an extensive network of interchange of prestige items, from the Mediterranean and up to the British Isles. These villages were closely related to the open settlements which characterized the first Bronze Age, frequently established near the valleys and the richer agricultural lands.\n\nFrom the beginning of the first millennium, the network appears to collapse, possibly because the Iron Age had outdated the Atlantic tin and bronze products in the Mediterranean region, and the large-scale production of metallic items was reduced to the elaboration of axes and tools, which are still found buried in very large quantities all along the European Atlantic coast.\n\nDuring the transition of the Bronze to the Iron Age, from the Douro in modern northern Portugal and up along the coasts of Galicia until the central regions of Asturias, the settlement in artificially fortified places substituted the old open settlement model. These early hill-forts were small (1 ha at most), being situated in hills, peninsulas or another naturally defended places, usually endowed with long range visibility. The artificial defences were initially composed of earthen walls, battlements and ditches, which enclosed an inner habitable space. This space was mostly left void, non urbanised, and used for communal activities, comprising a few circular, oblong, or rounded squared huts, of in the largest dimension, built with wood, vegetable materials and mud, sometimes reinforced with stony low walls. The major inner feature of these multi-functional undivided cabins were the hearth, circular or quadrangular, and which conditioned the uses of the other spaces of the room.\n\nIn essence, the main characteristic of this formative period is the assumption by the community of a larger authority at the expense of the elites, reflected in the minor importance of prestige items production, while the collective invested important resources and labour in the communal spaces and defences.\nSince the beginning of the 6th century BCE the Castro culture experienced an inner expansion: hundreds of new hill-forts were founded, while some older small ones were abandoned for new emplacements. These new settlements were founded near valleys, in the vicinity of the richest farmlands, and these are generally protected by several defence lines, composed of ramparts, ditches, and sound stony walls, probably built not only as a defensive apparatus but also as a feature which could confer prestige to the community. Sometimes, human remains have been found in cists or under the walls, implying some kind of foundational protective ritual.\n\nNot only did the number of settlements grow during this period, but also their size and density. First, the old familiar huts were frequently substituted by groups of family housing, composed generally of one or more huts with hearth, plus round granaries, and elongated or square sheds and workshops. At the same time, these houses and groups tended to occupy most of the internal room of the hill-forts, reducing the communitarian open spaces, which in turn would have been substituted by other facilities such as saunas, communitarian halls, and shared forges.\n\nAlthough most of the communities of this period had mostly self-sufficient isolated economies, one important change was the return of trade with the Mediterranean by the now independent Carthage, a thriving Western Mediterranean power. Carthaginian merchants brought imports of wine, glass, pottery and other goods through a series of emporia, commercial post which sometimes included temples and other installations. At the same time, the archaeological register shows, through the finding of large quantities of fibulae, pins, pincers for hair extraction, pendants, earrings, torcs, bracelets, and other personal objects, the ongoing importance of the individual and his or her physical appearance. While the archaeological record of the Castro Iron Age show suggests a very egalitarian society, these findings imply the development of a privileged class with better access to prestige items.\n\nFrom the 2nd century BC, specially in the south, some of the hill-forts turned into semi-urban fortified towns, oppida; their remains are locally known as \"cividades\" or \"cidades\", cities, with populations of some few thousand inhabitants, such as Cividade de Bagunte (50 ha), Briteiros (24 ha), Sanfins (15 ha), San Cibrao de Lás (20 ha), or Santa Tegra (15 ha); some of them were even larger than the cities, Bracara Augusti and Lucus Augusti, that Rome established a century later.\n\nThese native cities or citadels were characterised by their size and by urban features such as paved streets equipped with channels for stormwater runoff, reservoirs of potable water, and evidence of urban planning. Many of them also presented an inner and upper walled space, relatively large and scarcely urbanised, called \"acrópole\" by local scholars. These oppida were generally surrounded by concentric ditches and stone walls, up to five in Briteiros, sometimes reinforced with towers. Gates to these oppida become monumental and frequently have sculptures of warriors.\n\nThe oppida's dwelling areas are frequently externally walled, and kitchens, sheds, granaries, workshops and living rooms are ordered around an inner paved yard, sometimes equipped with fountains, drains and reservoirs.\n\nCividade de Bagunte was one of the largest cities with 50 hectares. The cities are surrounded by a number of smaller castros, some of which may have been defensive outposts of cities, such as Castro de Laundos, that was probably an outpost of Cividade de Terroso. There is a \"cividade\" toponym in Braga, a citadel established by Augustus, although there are no archaeological findings apart from an ancient parish name and pre-Roman baths. Bracara Augusta later became the capital of the Roman province of Gallaecia, which encompassed all the lands once part of the Castro culture.\n\nThe first meeting of Rome with the inhabitants of the \"castros\" and \"cividades\" was during the Punic wars, when Carthaginians hired local mercenaries for fighting Rome in the Mediterranean and into Italy.\n\nLater on, Gallaecians backed Lusitanians fighting Romans, and as a result the Roman general Decimus Junius Brutus Callaicus led a successful punishment expedition into the North in 137 BCE; the victory he celebrated in Rome granted him the title Callaicus (“Galician”). During the next century Gallaecia was still theatre of operation for Perpenna (73 BCE), Julius Caesar (61 BCE) and the generals of Augustus (29-19 BCE). But only after the Romans defeated the Asturians and Cantabrians in 19 BCE is evident—through inscriptions, numismatic and other archaeological findings—the submission of the local powers to Rome.\n\nWhile the 1st century BCE represents an era of expansion and maturity for the Castro Culture, under Roman influence and with the local economy apparently powered more than hindered by Roman commerce and wars, during the next century the control of Roma became political and military, and for the first time in more than a millennium new unfortified settlements were established in the plains and valleys, at the same time that numerous hill-forts and cities were abandoned. Strabo wrote, probably describing this process: \"until they were stopped by the Romans, who humiliated them and reduced most of their cities to mere villages\" (Strabo, III.3.5).\n\nThe culture went through somewhat of a transformation, as a result of the Roman conquest and formation of the Roman province of Gallaecia in the heart of the Castro cultural area; by the 2nd century CE most hill-forts and oppida had been abandoned or reused as sanctuaries or worshipping places, but some others kept being occupied up to the 5th century, when the Germanic Suevi established themselves in Gallaecia.\n\nAs stated, while Bronze Age economy was based on the exploitation and exportation of mineral local resources, tin and copper and on mass production and long range distribution of prestige items, Iron Age economy was based on an economy of necessity goods, as most items and productions were obtained \"in situ\", or interchanged thought short range commerce.\n\nAnyway, in the southern coastal areas the presence of Mediterranean merchants from the 6th century BC onward, would have occasioned an increase in social inequality, bringing a large number of importations (fine pottery, fibulae, wine, glass and other products) and technological innovations, such as round granite millstones, which would have merged with the Atlantic local traditions.\n\nAncient Roman military presence in the south and east of the Iberian Peninsula since the 2nd century BC would have reinforced the role of the autochthonous warrior elites, with better access to local prestige items and importations.\n\nPollen analyses confirms the Iron Age as a period of intense deforestation in Galicia and Northern Portugal, with meadows and fields expanding at the expense of woodland. Using three main type of tools, ploughs, sickles and hoes, together with axes for woodcutting, the Castro inhabitants grew a number of cereals: (wheat, millet, possibly also rye) for baking bread, as well as oats and barley which they also used for beer production. They also grew beans, peas and cabbage, and flax for fabric and clothes production; other vegetables where collected: nettle, watercress. Large quantities of acorns have been found hoarded in most hill-forts, as they were used for bread production once toasted and crushed in granite stone mills.\n\nThe second pillar of local economy was animal husbandry. Gallaecians bred cattle for meat, milk and butter production; they also used oxen for dragging carts and ploughs, while horses were used mainly for human transportation. They also bred sheep and goats, for meat and wool, and pigs for meat. Wild animals like deer or boars were frequently chased. In coastal areas, fishing and collecting shellfish were important activities: Strabo wrote that the people of northern Iberia used boats made of leather, probably similar to Irish currachs and Welsh coracles, for local navigation. Archaeologists have found hooks and weights for nets, as well as open seas fish remains, confirming inhabitants of the coastal areas as fishermen.\n\nMining was an integral part of the culture, and it attracted Mediterranean merchants, first Phoenicians, later Carthaginians and Romans. Gold, iron, copper, tin and lead were the most common ores mined. Castro metallurgy refined the metals from ores and cast them to make various tools.\n\nDuring the initial centuries of the first millennium BC bronze was still the most used metal, although iron was progressively introduced. Main products include tools (sickles, hoes, ploughs, axes), domestic items (knives and cauldrons), and weapons (antenna swords, spearheads). During the initial Iron Age the local artisans stopped producing some of the most characteristic Bronze Age items such as carp tongue, leaf shaped and rapier swords, double ringed axes, breastplates and most jewellery.\nFrom this time, the Castro culture develops jewelry of the Hallstatt type, but with a distinctive Mediterranean influence, especially in the production of feminine jewelry. Some 120 gold torcs are known, produced in three main regional styles frequently having large, void terminals, containing little stones which allowed them to be also used as rattles. \nOther metal artefacts include antenna-hilted swords and knives, Montefortino helmets with local decoration and sacrificial or votive axes with depictions of complex sacrificial scenes (similar to classical suovetaurilia), with torcs, cauldrons, weapons, animals of diverse species and string-like motives.\n\nDecorative motifs include rosettes, triskelions, swastikas, spirals, interlaces, as well as palm tree, herring bone and string motives, many of which were still carved in Romanesque churches, and are still used today in local folk art and traditional items in Galicia, Portugal and northern Spain. These same motifs were also extensively used in stone decoration. Castro sculpture also reveal that locals carved these figures in wood items, such as chairs, and weaved them into their clothes.\n\nWhile the use of stone for constructions is an old tradition in the Castro culture, dating from the 1st centuries of the 1st millennium BC, sculpture only became usual from the 2nd century BC, specially in the southern half of the territory, associated to the oppida. Five main types are produced, all of them in granite stone:\n\nPottery was produced locally in a variety of styles, although wealthier people also possessed imported Mediterranean products. The richest pottery was produced in the south, from the Rias Baixas region in Galicia to the Douro, where decoration was frequently stamped and incised into pots and vases. The patterns used often revealed the town where these were produced.\n\nIn the 1st century AD, more than 700,000 people were living in the main area of the Castro culture, in hill forts and oppida. Northern Gallaeci (Lucenses) were divided into 16 \"populi\" or tribes: \"Lemavi, Albiones, Cibarci, Egivarri Namarini, Adovi, Arroni, Arrotrebae, Celtici Neri, Celtici Supertamarci, Copori, Celtici Praestamarci, Cileni, Seurri, Baedui\". Astures were divided in Augustani and Transmontani, comprising 22 populi: \"Gigurri, Tiburi, Susarri, Paesici, Lancienses, Zoelae\", among others. Southern Gallaecians (Bracareses), comprising the area of the oppida, were composed of 24 \"civitates\": \"Helleni, Grovi, Leuni, Surbi, Bracari, Interamnici, Limici, Querquerni, Coelerni, Tamagani, Bibali, Callaeci, Equasei, Caladuni\"...\n\nEach populi or civitas was composed of a number of \"castella\", each one comprehending one or more hill-forts or oppida, by themselves an autonomous political chiefdom, probably under the direction of a chief and a senate. Under Roman influence the tribes or populi apparently ascended to a major role, at the expense of the minor entities. From the beginning of our era a few Latin inscriptions are known where some individuals declare themselves \"princeps\" or \"ambimogidus\" of a certain \"populi\" or \"civitas\".\n\nThe name of some of the castles and oppida are known through the declaration of origin of persons mentioned in epitaphs and votive Latin inscriptions (\"BERISAMO, LETIOBRI, ERCORIOBRI, LOUCIOCELO, OLCA, SERANTE, TALABRIGA, AVILIOBRIS, MEIDUNIO, DURBEDE...\"), through the epithets of local Gods in votive altars (\"ALANIOBRICA, VERUBRICO, AETIOBRIGO, VIRIOCELENSE\"...), and the testimony of classic authors and geographers (\"Adrobrica, Ebora, Abobrica, Nemetobriga, Brigantium, Olina, Caladunum, Tyde, Glandomirum, Ocelum...\"). Some more names can be inferred from modern place names, as those containing an evolution of the Celtic element \"brigs\" meaning \"hill\" and characteristically ligated to old hill-forts (\"Tragove, O Grove < Ogrobre, Canzobre < Caranzobre, Cortobe, Lestrove, Landrove, Iñobre, Maiobre\"...) Approximately half the pre-Latin toponyms of Roman Gallaecia were Celtic, while the rest were either non Celtic western Indo-European, or mixed toponyms containing Celtic and non-Celtic elements.\nOn the local personal names, less than two hundred are known, many of which are also present either in the Lusitania, or either among the Astures, or among the Celtiberians. Whilst many of them have a sure Celtic etymology, frequently related to war, fame or valour, others show preservation of /p/ and so are probably Lusitanian better than properly Celtic; in any case, many names could be Celtic or Lusitanian, or even belong to another indo-European local language. Among the most frequent names are \"Reburrus\", \"Camalus\" (related to Old Irish \"cam\" 'battle, encounter'), \"Caturus\" (to Celtic *katu- 'fight'), \"Cloutius\" (to Celtic *klouto- 'renown', with the derivatives \"Clutamus\" 'Very Famous' and \"Cloutaius\", and the composite \"Vesuclotus\" '(He who have) Good Fame'), \"Medamus\", \"Boutius\", \"Lovesius\", \"Pintamus\", \"Ladronus\", \"Apilus\", \"Andamus\" (maybe to Celtic and-amo- 'The Undermost'), \"Bloena\", \"Aebura\"/\"Ebura\", \"Albura\", \"Arius\", \"Caelius\" and \"Caelicus\" (to Celtic *kaylo- 'omen'), \"Celtiatis\", \"Talavius\", \"Viriatus\", among others.\n\nA certain number of personal names are also exclusive to Gallaecia, among these \"Artius\" (to Celtic *arktos 'bear'), \"Nantia\" and \"Nantius\" (to Celtic *nant- 'fight'), \"Cambavius\" (to Celtic *kambo- 'bent'), \"Vecius\" (probably Celtic, from PIE *weik- 'fight'), \"Cilurnius\" (to Celtic *kelfurn- 'cauldron'), \"Mebdius\", \"Coralius\" (to PIE *koro- 'army'), \"Melgaecus\" (to PIE *hmelg- 'milk'), \"Loveius\", \"Durbidia\", \"Lagius\", \"Laucius\", \"Aidius\" (to Celtic *aidu- 'fire'), \"Balcaius\"; and the composites \"Verotius\", \"Vesuclotus\", \"Cadroiolo\", \"Veroblius\", among other composite and derivative names.\n\nVery characteristic of the peoples of the Castro culture (Gallaecians and western Astures) is their onomastic formula. Whilst the onomastic formula among the Celtiberians usually is composed by a first name followed by a patronymic expressed as a genitive, and sometimes a reference to the \"gens\", the Castro people complete name was composed as this:\nSo, a name such as CAELEO CADROIOLONIS F CILENVS > BERISAMO would stand for \"Cailios son of Cadroyolo, a Cilenian, from the hill-fort named Berisamos\". Other similar anthroponymical patterns are known referring mostly to persons born in the regions in-between the rivers Navia in Asturias and Douro in Portugal, the ancient Gallaecia, among them:\n\nThe religious pantheon was extensive, and included local and pan-Celtic gods. Among the later ones the most relevant was Lugus; 5 inscriptions are known with dedication to this deity, whose name is frequently expressed as a plural dative (LUGUBO, LUCOUBU). The votive altars containing this dedications frequently present three holes for gifts or sacrifices. Other pan-European deities include Bormanicus (a god related to hot springs), the Matres, and Sulis or Suleviae (SULEIS NANTUGAICIS).\n\nMore numerous are the votive inscriptions dedicated to the autochthonous Cosus, Bandua, Nabia, and Reue. Hundreds of Latin inscriptions have survived with dedications to gods and goddesses. Archaeological finds such as ceremonial axes decorated with animal sacrificial scenes, together with the severed head sculptures and the testimonies of classical authors, confirms the ceremonial sacrifice of animals, and probably including human sacrifice as well, as among Lusitanians and Gauls.\n\nThe largest number of indigenous deities found in the whole Iberian Peninsula are located in the Lusitanian-Galician regions, and models proposing a fragmented and disorganized pantheon have been discarded, since the number of deities occurring together is similar to other Celtic peoples in Europe and ancient civilizations.\n\nCosus, a male deity, was worshipped in the coastal areas where the Celtici dwelt, from the region around Aveiro and Porto to Northern Galicia, but seldom inland, with the exception of the El Bierzo region in Leon, where this cult has been attributed to the known arrival of Galician miners, most notably from among the Celtici Supertamarici. This deity has not been recorded in the same areas as Bandua, Reue and Nabia deities occur, and El Bierzo follows the same pattern as in the coast. From a theonymical point of view, this suggest some ethno-cultural differences between the coast and inland areas. With the exception of the Grovii people, Pomponius Mela stated that all the \"populi\" were Celtic and Cosus was not worshipped there. Pliny also rejected that the Grovii were Celtic, he considered them to have a Greek origin.\n\nBandua is closely associated with Roman Mars and less frequently worshipped by women. The religious nature of Cosus had many similarities with that of Bandua. Bandua had a warlike character and a defender of local communities. The worship of these two gods do not overlap but rather complement each other, occupying practically the whole of the western territory of the Iberian Peninsula. Supporting the idea, no evidence has been found of any women worshipping at any of the monuments dedicated to Cosus. Cosus sites are found near settlements, such as in Sanfins and the settlement near A Coruña.\n\nNabia had double invocation, one male and one female. The supreme Nabia is related to Jupiter and another incarnation of the deity, identified with Diana, Juno or Victoria or others from the Roman pantheon, linked to the protection and defence of the community or health, wealth and fertility. Bandua, Reue, Arentius-Arentia, Quangeius, Munidis, Trebaruna, Laneana, and Nabia worshipped in the heart of Lusitania vanishes almost completely outside the boundary with the Vettones.\n\nBandua, Reue and Nabia were worshipped in the core area of Lusitania (including Northern Extremadura to Beira Baixa and Northern Lusitania) and reaching inland Galicia, the diffusion of these gods throughout the whole of the northern interior area shows a cultural continuity with Central Lusitania.\n\nFunerary rites are mostly unknown except at few places, such as Cividade de Terroso, where cremation was practised.\n\nWorld heritage candidates in 2010. \n\nThe Rede de Castros do Noroeste, the Northwestern Castro Network, was established in 2015 grouping the most important sites in Northern Portugal as founding members out of 2,000 archaeological sites: Boticas (Castro do Lesenho), Esposende (São Lourenço), Monção (São Caetano), Paços de Ferreira (Sanfins), Penafiel (Monte Mozinho), Póvoa de Varzim (Cividade de Terroso), Santo Tirso (Castro do Padrão), Trofa (Alvarelhos) and Vila do Conde (Bagunte), the Sociedade Martins Sarmento, from Guimarães (which manages Citânia de Briteiros) and the Direcção Regional de Cultura, managing Citânia de Santa Lúzia in Viana do Castelo. Despite its name, the network includes, for the time being, only Portuguese partners, and froze the idea to world heritage candidacy to UNESCO, given the disparities in archaeological research, and the necessity to create visitation and promotion conditions. This is especially true in the municipality of Vila do Conde, which holds Cividade de Bagunte, one of the largest sites, along with seven other castros. The Vila do Conde city hall managed to obtain its Cividade's land area only in 2015, after 60 years of negotiations and legal confrontation.\n\nOther Castros in Asturias (Spain):\nThe Cariaca Castro is not identified, as only a small amount of Castros are called with his old names (like Coaña). Important Castros in the Albion Territory, near the Nicer stele and Navia and Eo Rivers are: Coaña, Chao de Samartín, Pendía and Taramundi.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40785351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40785351", "title": "Change from below", "text": "Change from below\n\nChange from below is linguistic change that occurs from below the level of consciousness. It is language change that occurs from social, cognitive, or physiological pressures from within the system. This is in opposition to change from above, wherein language change is a result of elements imported from other systems.\n\nChange from below first enters the language from below the level of consciousness; that is, speakers are generally unaware of the linguistic change. These linguistic changes enter language primarily through the vernacular and spread throughout the community without speakers' conscious awareness. Since change from below is initially non-salient, the changing features are not marked characteristics and are difficult for speakers or linguists to perceive. As the changes occur, they will ultimately become stable changes that are stigmatized.\n\nNew linguistic changes that enter the language from below are most commonly used by the interior socioeconomic classes, as displayed by William Labov's curvilinear principle. Change from below is seen in Labov's Philadelphia study, where a series of new vowel changes was most often used by the interior classes. Age and gender similarly affect the way changes occur, where younger or female individuals are more likely to exhibit the change than older or male individuals in the community. However, gender, age, and social class act independently in transmission.\n\nChange from below challenges societal norms; women (especially upper working class women, and those who are socially entrenched and involved in their community) lead this linguistic change. However, forms that have overt prestige are more prized by these groups, so when changes from below rise to the level of awareness, they are frequently stigmatized and rejected by the very people using them.\n\nChange from below typically begins in informal speech. Often, those utilizing the changing forms are young speakers using the language as a form of resistance to authority. The changes made by individuals such as these, who are upwardly mobile and intentionally nonconformist, then diffuse into the speech of broader groups as described by Bill Labov’s Constructive Nonconformity Principle.\n\n The first phase of change from below is the acquisition of language by children. Typically, children learn the patterns of female caretakers.\n\n The second phase of change from below is the advancement of informal changes by young individuals.\n\n The third phase of change from below sees the individual’s speech shift towards more standard forms, and the change become socioeconomically diffused and stigmatized.\n"}
{"id": "3055672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3055672", "title": "Circus of Pepin and Breschard", "text": "Circus of Pepin and Breschard\n\nThe equestrian theatre company of Pépin and Breschard, American Victor Pépin and Frenchman Jean Baptiste Casmiere Breschard, arrived in the United States of America from Madrid, Spain (where they had performed during the 1805 and 1806 seasons), in November 1807. They toured that new country until 1815. From their arrival until the present day, what is now known as the traditional circus has had a presence in North America. \n\nInvited to perform in the United States by Spanish Ambassador Luis de Onís, the company landed in Plymouth, Massachusetts from Spain. They performed their first season in Charlestown, Massachusetts, after being refused a permit to perform in neighboring Boston.\n\nDuring the early 19th century, the word \"circus\" was used primarily to indicate the equestrian theatre building itself.\n\nPépin and Breschard introduced at least one Shakespearean play to the US and were one of the first, if not the first, companies in America to perform hippodrama. They were the first to bring a circus west of the Appalachian Mountains to such frontier cities as Pittsburgh, PA, where Benjamin Latrobe, a designer of the United States Capitol, was the architect for a circus he built for them in 1814. \nAn early member of the company, Peter Grain, later achieved a degree of fame as a painter and dioramist. \n\nPépin and Breschard are referenced in the United States Congressional Record of 1810. \n\nPépin, born in what is now New York State, was the first American to own and operate a circus in his native country. The theatrical company of Pépin and Breschard thus can be considered the first American circus.\n\nhttp://www.walnutstreettheatre.org/about/theatre-history.php\n\n"}
{"id": "6837263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6837263", "title": "Cottonopolis", "text": "Cottonopolis\n\nCottonopolis was a 19th century nickname for Manchester, as it was a metropolis and the centre of the cotton industry.\n\nEarly cotton mills powered by water were built in Lancashire and its neighbouring counties. In 1781 Richard Arkwright opened the world's first steam-driven textile mill on Miller Street in Manchester. Although initially inefficient, the arrival of steam power signified the beginning of the mechanisation that was to enhance the burgeoning textile industries in Manchester into the world's first centre of mass production. As textile manufacture switched from the home to factories, Manchester and towns in south and east Lancashire became the largest and most productive cotton spinning centre in the world using in 1871, 32% of global cotton production. Ancoats, part of a planned expansion of Manchester, became the first industrial suburb centred on steam power. There were mills whose architectural innovations included fireproofing by use of iron and reinforced concrete.\n\nThe number of cotton mills in Manchester peaked at 108 in 1853. As the numbers declined, cotton mills opened in the surrounding towns, Bury, Oldham (at its zenith the most productive cotton spinning town in the world,), Rochdale, Bolton (known as \"Spindleton\" in 1892) and in Blackburn, Darwen, Rawtenstall, Todmorden and Burnley. As the manufacturing centre of Manchester shrank, the commercial centre, warehouses, banks and services for the 280 cotton towns and villages within a 12-mile radius of the Royal Exchange grew. The term \"Cottonopolis\" came into use in about 1870.\n\nManchester became an important transport hub, the Bridgewater Canal made it possible to transport goods in bulk to its terminus at Castlefield where warehouses were built. Raw cotton, imported through the port of Liverpool from the West Indies and southern states of America, and coal from Worsley were carried on the canal. The Liverpool and Manchester Railway built a warehouse at its Liverpool Road terminus when it opened in 1830. The railway network developed linking Manchester to its increasingly industrialised hinterland.\n\nThe commercial centre of Cottonopolis was the exchange's trading hall. The first of Manchester's exchanges was built in the market place by Sir Oswald Mosley in 1727 for chapmen to transact business. It was subsequently re-built three times. Thomas Harrison built an exchange in the Greek Revival style between 1806 and 1809 After it opened, membership was required and trading was not restricted to textiles. Its early members were the owners of mills and warehouses, but later business was conducted by their agents and managers. Harrison's exchange was enlarged between 1847 and 1849 by Alex Mills. After a visit in 1851, Queen Victoria granted the exchange the title the Manchester Royal Exchange. The third exchange, designed by Mills and Murgatroyd, opened in 1874. It was built in the Classical style with Corinthian columns and a dome. The Royal Exchange was lavishly re-built by architects Bradshaw Gass & Hope in 1914–21 and at the time had the largest trading room in the world. Its vast hall was 29.2 metres high and had an area of 3683 square metres. The exchange had a membership of up to 11,000 cotton merchants who met every Tuesday and Friday to trade their wares beneath the 38.5-metre high central glass dome. It was badly damaged in World War II and ceased operation for cotton trading in 1968.\n\nIn the second half of the 1800s, Manchester's reputation as a financial and commercial centre was boosted by the unprecedented number of warehouses erected in the city centre. In 1806 there were just over 1,000 but by 1815 this had almost doubled to 1,819. Manchester was dubbed \"warehouse city\". The earliest warehouses were built around King Street although by 1850 warehouses had spread to Portland Street and later to Whitworth Street. Richard Cobden's construction in Mosley Street was the first of many palazzo style warehouse, followed by the elaborate Watts Warehouse in 1854.\n\nIn 1844 Johann Georg Kohl described Manchester's streets in his travel writing, \"...Market Street, into Mosley Street, or Cooper Street, for instance. Here stand the great warehouses, five or six stories high, all large and imposing, some of them stately and elegant. At night these warehouses are brilliantly lighted from top to bottom...\"\n\nThe packing warehouses: Asia House, India House and Velvet House along Whitworth Street were among the tallest buildings of their time. These dominant buildings were the stately homes of the cotton industry and the backbone of Cottonopolis, providing not just the storage facilities but they displayed the finished goods. Their owners spawned equally ornate bank and office buildings providing loans for the production of cotton and associated industries.\n\nFrom the late 1820s, Manchester was developing into an important city. The Act of Parliament of 1829 decreed separate Police Commissioners from Salford. The 1832 Reform Act created two members of parliament, the 1835 Municipal Reform Act allowed the election of magistrates, borough councillors and aldermen. Manchester was granted municipal borough status in 1838. At the same time growth of the cotton and aligned industries meant vast amounts of money were passing through Manchester, leading to the establishment of many money handling organisations and banking facilities.\nIn 1772, Arthur Heywood's Bank opened in Manchester, but the money was transferred daily via coach and horses to major banks in London, and many were attacked by highwaymen. The first bank to hold its own reserves of notes and coins was the Bank of Manchester which opened on Market Street in 1829. Next was the Manchester & Liverpool District Bank on Spring Gardens in 1832, followed by many others in the same area around Spring Gardens, Fountain Street and King Street which became the Central Business District and banking centre.\nMany 18th- and 19th-century cotton mills, canals, supporting bridges and infrastructure exist today. The square mile of \"warehouse city\" is cited as the finest example of a Victorian commercial centre in the United Kingdom. \nThis area is a core component of the listing of Manchester and Salford on a tentative list of UNESCO World Heritage Sites \n\nThe Royal Exchange was renovated and turned into the home of one of the most prolific and highly regarded theatres outside London in 1972. The Royal Exchange was again damaged in 1996 by an IRA bomb and rebuilt once more at a cost of £32 million.\n\nExtracts from \"Spinning the Web\", used as the basis of a BBC Radio 4 drama.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "3213477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3213477", "title": "Diego Durán", "text": "Diego Durán\n\nDiego Durán (c. 1537 – 1588) was a Dominican friar best known for his authorship of one of the earliest Western books on the history and culture of the Aztecs, \"The History of the Indies of New Spain\", a book that was much criticised in his lifetime for helping the \"heathen\" maintain their culture.\n\nAlso known as the Durán Codex, \"The History of the Indies of New Spain\" was completed in about 1581. Durán also wrote \"Book of the Gods and Rites\" (1574–1576), and \"Ancient Calendar\" (c. 1579). He was fluent in Nahuatl, the Aztec language, and was therefore able to consult natives and Aztec codices as well as work done by earlier friars. His empathetic nature allowed him to gain the confidence of many native people who would not share their stories with Europeans, and was able to document many previously unknown folktales and legends that make his work unique.\n\nDurán was born sometime around 1537 in Spain. His family traveled to Mexico when he was very young—he said later that \"although I did not acquire my milk teeth in Texcoco, I got my second ones there.\"' In Texcoco, a city-state known for its learning in the prehispanic period, he learned Nahuatl. His family was not wealthy, but the family did have servants who had been slaves. \n\nWhen he was still young, his family moved to Mexico City where he attended school and was exposed to Aztec culture under the colonial rule of Spain, as well as the many Africans brought by the Spanish for slavery. According to Heyden, Durán was often puzzled by the mix of races and cultures and their significance for social class.\n\nIn 1556 he entered the Dominican Order and was sent to Oaxaca in 1561 after being trained in Mexico City. He resided for a time at a convent, or friary, in Oaxtepec, and there he found many informants within the Church. He is believed to have been tutored by Dominican Fray Francisco de Aguilar, who had once been a soldier involved in the siege of Tenochtitlan. Aguilar later joined the Dominican order, and had much to tell Durán about the Aztecs at first contact. He was cited frequently by Durán in his \"History\".\n\nDurán later became a vicar at a convent in Hueyapan and it was there that he learned the most from the native Nahuas. The convents had been issued a decree by Charles V to preach the Christian word to native rural villages and Durán ventured into the villages frequently to converse with the natives there. The clergy were to also observe native customs and to search for ancient documents. particularly the lost Holy Scriptures of Saint Thomas (who was believed to have been the basis for the Aztecs' Quetzalcoatl).\n\nHe developed a close association with the people he was attempting to convert, which led him to criticize the clerics and conquistadors who never learned the natives’ language, writing “they should know the language well and understand [the people] if they have any pretense of obtaining fruit. And the clergy should not acquiesce by saying they need know only enough of the tongue in order to hear confession and that is enough.” (\"Book of the Gods and Rites\") and scorns the Spaniards' crude use of the language that made the natives scoff.\n\nDurán was torn between two worlds, his own people, and the Aztecs. On one hand, he respected the Aztecs and their governmental organization before the conquest; and he grew to admire the native people of Mexico, and often said so. On the other hand, he was repulsed by certain acts of his native informants, particularly human sacrifice. It was, after all, his duty to evangelize them and his Catholic background gave him a great disdain for such things. Another of his duties was to document the cultural ways and practices of the native people to serve as a manual for other monks in their attempt to evangelize them. Although his purpose was to detail the “heathen practices” as a manual for other missionaries, he also wanted to make it pleasant to read and useful to others.\n\nIn 1585 Friar Diego returned to Mexico City in ill health to live and work in the Convent of St. Dominic there, as a translator from Nahuatl to Spanish for the Inquisition. He died in 1588 of an unknown illness.\n\nThe \"History of the Indies of New Spain\", sometimes referred to as the Durán Codex, contains 78 chapters spanning from the Aztec creation story until after Spanish conquest of Mexico, and includes a chronology of Aztec kings.\n\nThe friars of the 16th century borrowed one another’s material without citation. Some scholars believe that the Durán Codex formed the basis for the Ramirez Codex although others believe that both Ramirez Codex and the Durán Codex relied on an earlier unknown work referred to as \"Chronicle X\". In 1596, Durán was cited as a source by Fray Agustín Dávila Padilla in his \"Historia de la fundación y discurso de la Provinciade Santiago de Mexico\".\n\nThe Durán Codex was unpublished until the 19th century, when it was found in the Library of Madrid by José Fernando Ramírez. In his \"Ancient Calendar\", Durán explains why his work would go so long without being published by saying “some persons (and they are not a few) say that my work will revive ancient customs and rites among the Indians”, to which he replied that the Indians were quite good at secretly preserving their own customs and needed no outside help.\n\nDurán's work has become invaluable to archaeologists and others studying Mesoamerica and scholars studying Mesoamerican ethnohistory. Although there are few surviving Aztec codices written before the Spanish conquest, the more numerous post-conquest codices and near-contemporary works such as Durán's are invaluable sources for the interpretation of archaeological theories and evidence, but more importantly for constructing a history of the indigenous from texts produced by the indigenous themselves, as exemplified in the New Philology.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "140792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=140792", "title": "First Chechen War", "text": "First Chechen War\n\nThe First Chechen War (), also known as the First Chechen Сampaign (), First Russian-Chechen war, or officially (from Russian point of view) Armed conflict in the Chechen Republic and on bordering territories of the Russian Federation () was a rebellion by the Chechen Republic of Ichkeria against the Russian Federation, fought from December 1994 to August 1996. After the initial campaign of 1994–1995, culminating in the devastating Battle of Grozny, Russian federal forces attempted to seize control of the mountainous area of Chechnya but were set back by Chechen guerrilla warfare and raids on the flatlands despite Russia's overwhelming advantages in firepower, manpower, weaponry, artillery, combat vehicles, airstrikes and air support. The resulting widespread demoralization of federal forces and the almost universal opposition of the Russian public to the conflict led Boris Yeltsin's government to declare a ceasefire with the Chechens in 1996 and sign a peace treaty a year later.\n\nThe official figure for Russian military deaths is 5,732, while most estimates put the number between 3,500 and 7,500, or even as high as 14,000. Although there are no accurate figures for the number of Chechen forces killed, various estimates put the number at about 3,000 to 17,391 deaths and missing. Various figures estimate the number of civilian deaths at between 30,000 and 100,000 killed and possibly over 200,000 injured, while more than 500,000 people were displaced by the conflict, which left cities and villages across the republic in ruins. The conflict led to a significant decrease of non-Chechen population due to violence and discrimination.\n\nFollowing long local resistance during the 1817–1864 Caucasian War, Imperial Russian forces defeated the Chechens and annexed their lands in the 1870s. The Chechens' subsequent attempts at gaining independence after the 1917 fall of the Russian Empire failed, and in 1922 Chechnya became part of Soviet Russia and in December 1922 part of the newly formed Soviet Union (USSR). In 1936, Soviet leader Joseph Stalin established the Chechen-Ingush Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic. In 1944, on the orders of NKVD chief Lavrenti Beria, more than a half million Chechens, the Ingush and several other North Caucasian people were ethnically cleansed, and deported to Siberia and to Central Asia. The official pretext was punishment for collaboration with the invading German forces during the 1940–1944 insurgency in Chechnya, despite tens of thousands of Chechens and Ingush being aligned to the Soviet Union and fighting against the Nazis, and despite 50 Chechens receiving the highest military award in the Soviet Union (e.g. Khanpasha Nuradilov); the Soviet authorities abolished the Chechen-Ingush Republic (March 1944). Eventually, Soviet first secretary Nikita Khrushchev granted the Vainakh (Chechen and Ingush) peoples permission to return to their homeland and restored their republic in 1957.\n\nRussia became an independent nation after the dissolution of the Soviet Union in December 1991. While Russia was widely accepted as the successor state to the USSR, it lost a significant amount of its military and economic power. While ethnic Russians made up more than 80% of the population of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic, significant ethnic and religious differences posed a threat of political disintegration in some regions. In the Soviet period, some of Russia's approximately 100 nationalities were granted ethnic enclaves that had various formal federal rights attached. Relations of these entities with the federal government and demands for autonomy erupted into a major political issue in the early 1990s. Boris Yeltsin incorporated these demands into his 1990 election campaign by claiming that their resolution was a high priority.\n\nThere was an urgent need for a law to clearly define the powers of each federal subject. Such a law was passed on 31 March 1992, when Yeltsin and Ruslan Khasbulatov, then chairman of the Russian Supreme Soviet and an ethnic Chechen himself, signed the Federation Treaty bilaterally with 86 out of 88 federal subjects. In almost all cases, demands for greater autonomy or independence were satisfied by concessions of regional autonomy and tax privileges. The treaty outlined three basic types of federal subjects and the powers that were reserved for local and federal government. The only federal subjects that did not sign the treaty were Chechnya and Tatarstan. Eventually, in the spring of 1994, President Yeltsin signed a special political accord with Mintimer Shaeymiev, the president of Tatarstan, granting many of its demands for greater autonomy for the republic within Russia; thus, Chechnya remained the only federal subject that did not sign the treaty. Neither Yeltsin nor the Chechen government attempted any serious negotiations and the situation deteriorated into a full-scale conflict.\n\nMeanwhile, on 6 September 1991, militants of the All-National Congress of the Chechen People (NCChP) party, created by the former Soviet Air Force general Dzhokhar Dudayev, stormed a session of the Chechen-Ingush ASSR Supreme Soviet with the aim of asserting independence. The storming caused the death of the head of Grozny's branch of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union Vitaly Kutsenko, who was defenestrated or fell while trying to escape. This effectively dissolved the government of the Chechen-Ingush Autonomous Republic of the Soviet Union. In the following month, Dudayev won overwhelming popular support (as evidenced by the later presidential elections with high turnout and a clear Dudayev victory) to oust the interim administration that was supported by the central government. He was made president and declared independence from the Soviet Union.\n\nIn November 1991, Yeltsin dispatched Internal Troops to Grozny, but they were forced to withdraw when Dudayev's forces surrounded them at the airport. After Chechnya made its initial declaration of sovereignty, the Chechen-Ingush Autonomous Republic split in two in June 1992 amidst the Ingush armed conflict against another Russian republic, North Ossetia. The newly created republic of Ingushetia then joined the Russian Federation, while Chechnya declared full independence from Moscow in 1993 as the Chechen Republic of Ichkeria (ChRI).\n\nFrom 1991 to 1994, tens of thousands of people of non-Chechen ethnicity left the republic amidst reports of violence and discrimination against the non-Chechen population (mostly Russians, Ukrainians and Armenians). Chechen industry began to fail as a result of many Russian engineers and workers leaving or being expelled from the republic combined with the Soviet era's crippling of the non-Russian/Armenian/Ukrainian populace (Chechens, some Ingush and Nogais, Jews) through Russian-only schooling, heavy discrimination in the public sector of the workforce, and other similar measures (even as late as 1989, Checheno-Ingushetia was ruled by a bureaucracy of ethnic Russians). During the undeclared Chechen civil war, factions both sympathetic and opposed to Dudayev fought for power, sometimes in pitched battles with the use of heavy weapons. In March 1992, the opposition attempted a coup d'état, but their attempt was crushed by force. A month later, Dudayev introduced direct presidential rule, and in June 1993, dissolved the Chechen parliament to avoid a referendum on a vote of non-confidence. In late October 1992, Russian forces dispatched to the zone of the Ossetian-Ingush conflict were ordered to move to the Chechen border; Dudayev, who perceived this as \"an act of aggression against the Chechen Republic\", declared a state of emergency and threatened general mobilization if the Russian troops did not withdraw from the Chechen border. To prevent the invasion of Chechnya, he did not provoke the Russian troops.\nAfter staging another \"coup d'état\" attempt in December 1993, the opposition organized themselves into the Provisional Council of the Chechen Republic as a potential alternative government for Chechnya, calling on Moscow for assistance. In August 1994, the coalition of the opposition factions based in north Chechnya launched a large-scale armed campaign to remove Dudayev's government.\n\nHowever, the issue of contention was not independence from Russia: even the opposition stated there was no alternative to an international boundary separating Chechnya from Russia. In 1992, Russian newspaper \"Moscow News\" made note that, just like most of the other seceding republics except for Tatarstan, ethnic Chechens universally supported the establishment of an independent Chechen state. Again, in 1995, during the heat of the First Chechen War, Khalid Delmayev, an anti-Dudayev belonging to an Ichkerian liberal coalition, stated that \"Chechnya's statehood may be postponed... but cannot be avoided\". Opposition to Dudayev came mainly due to his domestic policy and personality: he once notoriously claimed that Russia intended to destabilize his nation by \"artificially creating earthquakes\" in Georgia and Armenia. This did not go off well with most Chechens, who came to view him as a national embarrassment at times (if still a patriot at others), but it did not, by any means, dismantle the determination for independence, as most Western commentators note.\n\nMoscow clandestinely supplied separatist forces with financial support, military equipment and mercenaries. Russia also suspended all civilian flights to Grozny while the aviation and border troops set up a military blockade of the republic and eventually unmarked Russian aircraft began combat operations over Chechnya. The opposition forces, who were joined by Russian troops, launched a clandestine but badly organized assault on Grozny in mid-October 1994, followed by the second, larger attack on 26–27 November 1994. Despite Russian support, both attempts were unsuccessful. In a major embarrassment for the Kremlin, Dudayev loyalists succeeded in capturing some 20 Russian Army regulars and about 50 other Russian citizens who were clandestinely hired by the Russian FSK state security organization to fight for the Provisional Council forces. On 29 November, President Boris Yeltsin issued an ultimatum to all warring factions in Chechnya ordering them to disarm and to surrender. When the government in Grozny refused, Yeltsin ordered the Russian army to \"restore constitutional order\" by force.\n\nBeginning on 1 December, Russian forces openly carried out heavy aerial bombardments of Chechnya. On 11 December 1994, five days after Dudayev and Russian Minister of Defense Gen. Pavel Grachev of Russia had agreed to \"avoid the further use of force\", Russian forces entered the republic in order to \"establish constitutional order in Chechnya and to preserve the territorial integrity of Russia.\" Grachev boasted he could topple Dudayev in a couple of hours with a single airborne regiment, and proclaimed that it will be \"a bloodless blitzkrieg, that would not last any longer than 20 December.\"\n\nOn 11 December 1994, Russian forces launched a three-pronged ground attack towards Grozny. The main attack was temporarily halted by the deputy commander of the Russian Ground Forces, General Eduard Vorobyov, who then resigned in protest, stating that it is \"a crime\" to \"send the army against its own people.\" Many in the Russian military and government opposed the war as well. Yeltsin's adviser on nationality affairs, Emil Pain, and Russia's Deputy Minister of Defense General Boris Gromov (esteemed commander of the Afghan War), also resigned in protest of the invasion (\"It will be a bloodbath, another Afghanistan\", Gromov said on television), as did General Boris Poliakov. More than 800 professional soldiers and officers refused to take part in the operation; of these, 83 were convicted by military courts and the rest were discharged. Later General Lev Rokhlin also refused to be decorated as a Hero of the Russian Federation for his part in the war.\n\nThe Chechen Air Force (as well as the republic's civilian aircraft fleet) was completely destroyed in the air strikes that occurred on the very first few hours of the war, while around 500 people took advantage of the mid-December amnesty declared by Yeltsin for members of Dzhokhar Dudayev's armed groups. Nevertheless, Boris Yeltsin's cabinet's expectations of a quick surgical strike, quickly followed by Chechen capitulation and regime change, were misguided. Russia found itself in a quagmire almost instantly. The morale of the Russian troops, poorly prepared and not understanding why and even where they were being sent, was low from the beginning. Some Russian units resisted the order to advance, and in some cases, the troops sabotaged their own equipment. In Ingushetia, civilian protesters stopped the western column and set 30 military vehicles on fire, while about 70 conscripts deserted their units. Advance of the northern column was halted by the unexpected Chechen resistance at Dolinskoye and the Russian forces suffered their first serious losses. Deeper in Chechnya, a group of 50 Russian paratroopers surrendered to the local Chechen militia after being deployed by helicopters behind enemy lines and then abandoned.\n\nYeltsin ordered the Russian Army to show restraint, but it was neither prepared nor trained for this. Civilian losses quickly mounted, alienating the Chechen population and raising the hostility that they showed towards the Russian forces, even among those who initially supported the Russians' attempts to unseat Dudayev. Other problems occurred as Yeltsin sent in freshly trained conscripts from neighboring regions rather than regular soldiers. Highly mobile units of Chechen fighters inflicted severe losses on the ill-prepared and demoralized Russian troops. Although the Russian military command ordered to only attack designated targets, due to the lack of training and experience of Russian forces, they attacked random positions instead, turning into carpet bombing and indiscriminate barrages of rocket artillery, and causing enormous casualties among the Chechen and Russian civilian population. On 29 December, in a rare instance of a Russian outright victory, the Russian airborne forces seized the military airfield next to Grozny and repelled a Chechen armoured counter-attack in the Battle of Khankala; the next objective was the city itself. With the Russians closing in on the capital, the Chechens began to hastily set up defensive fighting positions and grouped their forces in the city.\n\nWhen the Russians besieged the Chechen capital, thousands of civilians died from a week-long series of air raids and artillery bombardments in the heaviest bombing campaign in Europe since the destruction of Dresden. The initial assault on New Year's Eve 1995 ended in a major Russian defeat, resulting in heavy casualties and at first nearly a complete breakdown of morale in the Russian forces. The disaster claimed the lives of an estimated 1,000 to 2,000 Russian soldiers, mostly barely trained and disoriented conscripts; the heaviest losses were inflicted on the 131st 'Maikop' Motor Rifle Brigade, which was completely destroyed in the fighting near the central railway station. Despite the early Chechen defeat of the New Year's assault and the many further casualties that the Russians had sustained, Grozny was eventually conquered by Russian forces amidst bitter urban warfare. After armored assaults failed, the Russian military set out to take the city using air power and artillery. At the same time, the Russian military accused the Chechen fighters of using civilians as human shields by preventing them from leaving the capital as it came under continued bombardment. On 7 January 1995, Russian Major-General Viktor Vorobyov was killed by mortar fire, becoming the first on a long list of Russian generals to be killed in Chechnya. On 19 January, despite heavy casualties, Russian forces seized the ruins of the Chechen presidential palace, which had been heavily contested for more than three weeks as the Chechens finally abandoned their positions in the destroyed downtown area. The battle for the southern part of the city continued until the official end on 6 March 1995.\n\nBy the estimates of Yeltsin's human rights adviser Sergei Kovalev, about 27,000 civilians died in the first five weeks of fighting. Russian historian and general Dmitri Volkogonov said the Russian military's bombardment of Grozny killed around 35,000 civilians, including 5,000 children, and that the vast majority of those killed were ethnic Russians. While military casualties are not known, the Russian side admitted to having 2,000 soldiers killed or missing. The bloodbath of Grozny shocked Russia and the outside world, causing severe criticism of the war. International monitors from the OSCE described the scenes as nothing short of an \"unimaginable catastrophe\", while former Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev called the war a \"disgraceful, bloody adventure\" and German Chancellor Helmut Kohl called it \"sheer madness\".\n\nFollowing the fall of Grozny, the Russian government slowly but systematically expanded its control over the lowland areas and then into the mountains. In what was dubbed the worst massacre in the war, the OMON and other federal forces killed at least 103 civilians while seizing the border village of Samashki on 7 April (several hundred more were detained and beaten or otherwise tortured). In the southern mountains, the Russians launched an offensive along the entire front on 15 April, advancing in large columns of 200–300 vehicles. The ChRI forces defended the city of Argun, moving their military headquarters first to completely surrounded Shali, then shortly after to Serzhen-Yurt as they were forced into the mountains, and finally to Shamil Basayev's ancestral stronghold of Vedeno. Chechnya's second-largest city of Gudermes was surrendered without a fight, but the village of Shatoy was fought for and defended by the men of Ruslan Gelayev. Eventually, the Chechen command withdrew from the area of Vedeno to the Chechen opposition-aligned village of Dargo, and from there to Benoy. According to an estimate cited in a United States Army analysis report, between January and June 1995, when the Russian forces conquered most of the republic in the conventional campaign, their losses in Chechnya were approximately 2,800 killed, 10,000 wounded and more than 500 missing or captured. However, some Chechen fighters infiltrated already pacified places hiding in crowds of returning refugees.\n\nAs the war continued, separatists resorted to mass-hostage takings, attempting to influence the Russian public and leadership. In June 1995, a group led by the maverick field commander Shamil Basayev took more than 1,500 people hostage in southern Russia in the Budyonnovsk hospital hostage crisis; about 120 Russian civilians died before a ceasefire was signed after negotiations between Basayev and the Russian Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin. The raid enforced a temporary stop in Russian military operations giving the Chechens time to regroup during their greatest crisis and to prepare for the national militant campaign. The full-scale Russian attack led many of Dudayev's opponents to side with his forces and thousands of volunteers to swell the ranks of mobile militant units. Many others formed local self-defence militia units to defend their settlements in the case of federal offensive action, officially numbering 5,000–6,000 armed men in late 1995. Altogether, the ChRI forces fielded some 10,000–12,000 full-time and reserve fighters at a time, according to the Chechen command. According to a UN report, the Chechen separatist forces included a large number of child soldiers, some as young as 11 and including females. As the territory controlled by them shrank, the separatists increasingly resorted to using classic guerrilla warfare tactics, such as setting booby traps and mining roads in enemy-held territory. The successful use of improvised explosive devices was particularly noteworthy; they also effectively exploited a combination of mines and ambushes.\n\nIn the fall of 1995, Gen. Anatoliy Romanov, the federal commander in Chechnya at the time, was critically injured and paralyzed in a bomb blast in Grozny. Suspicion of responsibility for the attack fell on rogue elements of the Russian military, as the attack destroyed hopes for a permanent ceasefire based on the developing trust between Gen. Romanov and the ChRI Chief of Staff Aslan Maskhadov, a former colonel in the Soviet Army; in August, the two went to southern Chechnya in an effort to convince the local commanders to release Russian prisoners. In February 1996, the federal and pro-Russian Chechen forces in Grozny opened fire on a massive pro-independence peace march which had involved tens of thousands of people, killing a number of demonstrators. The ruins of the presidential palace, the symbol of Chechen independence, were then demolished two days later.\n\nHuman rights organizations accused Russian forces of engaging in indiscriminate and disproportionate use of force whenever encountering resistance, resulting in numerous civilian deaths (for example, according to Human Rights Watch, Russian artillery and rocket attacks killed at least 267 civilians during the December 1995 separatist raid on Gudermes). The dominant Russian strategy was to use heavy artillery and air strikes throughout the campaign, leading some Western and Chechen sources to call the air strikes deliberate terror bombing on parts of Russia. Ironically, due to the fact that ethnic Chechens in Grozny were able to seek refuge among their respective \"teips\" in the surrounding villages of the countryside, a high proportion of initial civilian casualties were inflicted against ethnic Russians who were unable to procure viable escape routes. The villages, however, were also heavily targeted from the first weeks of the conflict (the Russian cluster bombs, for example, killed at least 55 civilians during the 3 January 1995 Shali cluster bomb attack). The Russian soldiers often prevented civilians from evacuating from areas of imminent danger and prevented humanitarian organizations from assisting civilians in need. It was widely alleged that Russian troops, especially those belonging to the MVD, committed numerous and in part systematic acts of torture and summary executions on separatist sympathizers; they were often linked to \"zachistka\" (\"cleansing\" raids, affecting entire town districts and villages suspected of harboring \"boyeviki\" – the separatist fighters). Humanitarian and aid groups chronicled persistent patterns of Russian soldiers killing, raping and looting civilians at random, often in disregard of their nationality. Separatist fighters took hostages on a massive scale, kidnapped or killed Chechens considered to be collaborators, and mistreated civilian captives and federal prisoners of war (especially pilots). Both the separatists and the federal forces kidnapped hostages for ransom and used human shields for cover during the fighting and movement of troops (for example, a group of surrounded Russian troops took approximately 500 civilian hostages at Grozny's 9th Municipal Hospital).\n\nThe violations committed by members of the Russian forces were usually tolerated by their superiors and were not punished even when investigated (the story of Vladimir Glebov serving as an example of such policy). However, television and newspaper accounts widely reported largely uncensored images of the carnage to the Russian public. As a result, the Russian media coverage partially precipitated a loss of public confidence in the government and a steep decline in president Yeltsin's popularity. Chechnya was one of the heaviest burdens on Yeltsin's 1996 presidential election campaign. In addition, the protracted War in Chechnya, especially many reports of extreme violence against civilians, ignited fear and contempt of Russia among other ethnic groups in the federation.\n\nChechnya's Chief Mufti Akhmad Kadyrov's declaration that the ChRI was waging a \"Jihad\" (\"struggle\") against Russia raised the spectre that Jihadis from other regions and even outside Russia would enter the war. By one estimate, up to 5,000 non-Chechens served as foreign volunteers, motivated by religious and/or nationalistic reasons.\n\nLimited fighting occurred in the neighbouring small Russian republic of Ingushetia, mostly when Russian commanders sent troops over the border in pursuit of Chechen fighters, while as many as 200,000 refugees (from Chechnya and the conflict in North Ossetia) strained Ingushetia's already weak economy. On several occasions, Ingush president Ruslan Aushev protested incursions by Russian soldiers and even threatened to sue the Russian Ministry of Defence for damages inflicted, recalling how the federal forces previously assisted in the expulsion of the Ingush population from North Ossetia. Undisciplined Russian soldiers were also reported to be committing murders, rapes, and looting in Ingushetia (in an incident partially witnessed by visiting Russian Duma deputies, at least nine Ingush civilians and an ethnic Bashkir soldier were murdered by apparently drunk Russian soldiers; earlier, drunken Russian soldiers killed another Russian soldier, five Ingush villagers and even Ingushetia's health minister). Much larger and more deadly acts of hostility took place in the republic of Dagestan. In particular, the border village of Pervomayskoye was completely destroyed by Russian forces in January 1996 in reaction to the large-scale Chechen hostage taking in Kizlyar in Dagestan (in which more than 2,000 hostages were taken), bringing strong criticism from this hitherto loyal republic and escalating domestic dissatisfaction. The Don Cossacks of southern Russia, originally sympathetic to the Chechen cause , turned hostile as a result of their Russian-esque culture and language and stronger affinity to Moscow than Grozny (their long history of conflict with indigenous peoples such as the Chechens should also be considered), and the Kuban Cossacks started organising themselves against the Chechens, including manning paramilitary roadblocks against infiltration of their territories.\n\nMeanwhile, the War in Chechnya spawned new forms of separatist activities in the Russian Federation. Resistance to the conscription of men from minority ethnic groups to fight in Chechnya was widespread among other republics, many of which passed laws and decrees on the subject. For example, the government of Chuvashia passed a decree providing legal protection to soldiers from the republic who refused to participate in the Chechen war and imposed limits on the use of the federal army in ethnic or regional conflicts within Russia. Some regional and local legislative bodies called for the prohibition on the use of draftees in quelling internal conflicts, while others demanded a total ban on the use of the armed forces in such situations. Russian government officials feared that a move to end the war short of victory would create a cascade of secession attempts by other ethnic minorities.\n\nOn 6 March 1996, a Cypriot passenger jet was hijacked by Chechen sympathisers while flying toward Germany. On 9 January, a Turkish passenger ship carrying 200 Russian passengers was taken over by what were mostly Turkish gunmen who were seeking to publicize the Chechen cause. Both of these incidents were resolved through negotiations and the hijackers surrendered without any fatalities being inflicted.\n\nOn 6 March, between 1,500 and 2,000 Chechen fighters infiltrated Grozny and launched a three-day surprise raid on the city, overrunning much of it and capturing cachés of weapons and ammunition. Also in March, the Chechen fighters attacked Samashki, where hundreds of villagers were killed. A month later, on 16 April, forces of Arab commander Ibn al-Khattab destroyed a large Russian armored column in an ambush near Shatoy, killing at least 76 soldiers; in another one, near Vedeno, at least 28 Russian troops were killed.\n\nAs military defeats and growing casualties made the war more and more unpopular in Russia, and as the 1996 presidential elections neared, Yeltsin's government sought a way out of the conflict. Although a Russian guided missile attack assassinated the ChRI President Dzhokhar Dudayev on 21 April 1996, the separatists persisted. Yeltsin even officially declared \"victory\" in Grozny on 28 May 1996, after a new temporary ceasefire was signed with the ChRI Acting President Zelimkhan Yandarbiyev. While the political leaders were discussing the ceasefire and peace negotiations, military forces continued to conduct combat operations. On 6 August 1996, three days before Yeltsin was to be inaugurated for his second term as Russian president and when most of the Russian Army troops were moved south due to what was planned as their final offensive against remaining mountainous separatist strongholds, the Chechens launched another surprise attack on Grozny.\n\nDespite Russian troops in and around Grozny numbering approximately 12,000, more than 1,500 Chechen guerrillas (whose numbers soon swelled) overran the key districts within hours in an operation prepared and led by Maskhadov (who named it Operation Zero) and Basayev (who called it Operation Jihad). The separatists then laid siege to the Russian posts and bases and the government compound in the city centre, while a number of Chechens deemed to be Russian collaborators were rounded up, detained and, in some cases, executed. At the same time, Russian troops in the cities of Argun and Gudermes were also surrounded in their garrisons. Several attempts by the armored columns to rescue the units trapped in Grozny were repelled with heavy Russian casualties (the 276th Motorized Regiment of 900 men suffered 50% casualties in a two-day attempt to reach the city centre). Russian military officials said that more than 200 soldiers had been killed and nearly 800 wounded in five days of fighting, and that an unknown number were missing; Chechens put the number of Russian dead at close to 1,000. Thousands of troops were either taken prisoner or surrounded and largely disarmed, their heavy weapons and ammunition commandeered by the separatists.\n\nOn 19 August, despite the presence of 50,000 to 200,000 Chechen civilians and thousands of federal servicemen in Grozny, the Russian commander Konstantin Pulikovsky gave an ultimatum for Chechen fighters to leave the city within 48 hours, or else it would be leveled in a massive aerial and artillery bombardment. He stated that federal forces would use strategic bombers (not used in Chechnya up to this point) and ballistic missiles. This announcement was followed by chaotic scenes of panic as civilians tried to flee before the army carried out its threat, with parts of the city ablaze and falling shells scattering refugee columns. The bombardment was however soon halted by the ceasefire brokered by General Alexander Lebed, Yeltsin's national security adviser, on 22 August. Gen. Lebed called the ultimatum, issued by General Pulikovsky (now replaced), a \"bad joke\".\n\nDuring eight hours of subsequent talks, Lebed and Maskhadov drafted and signed the Khasav-Yurt Accord on 31 August 1996. It included: technical aspects of demilitarization, the withdrawal of both sides' forces from Grozny, the creation of joint headquarters to preclude looting in the city, the withdrawal of all federal forces from Chechnya by 31 December 1996, and a stipulation that any agreement on the relations between the Chechen Republic of Ichkeria and the Russian federal government need not be signed until late 2001.\n\nAccording to the General Staff of the Russian Armed Forces, 3,826 troops were killed, 17,892 were wounded, and 1,906 are missing in action. According to the \"NVO\", the authoritative Russian independent military weekly, at least 5,362 Russian soldiers died during the war, 52,000 were wounded or became diseased and some 3,000 more remained missing by 2005. The estimate of the Committee of Soldiers' Mothers of Russia, however, put the number of the Russian military dead at 14,000, based on information from wounded troops and soldiers' relatives (counting only regular troops, i.e. not the \"kontraktniki\" and special service forces). List of names of the dead soldiers, drawn up by the Human Rights Center \"Memorial\" contains 4393 names. In 2009, the official Russian number of troops still missing from the two wars in Chechnya and presumed dead was some 700, while about 400 remains of the missing servicemen were said to be recovered up to this point.\nChechen casualties are estimated at up to 100,000 dead or more, of which most were civilians. Various estimates put the number of Chechens dead or missing between 50,000 and 100,000. Russian Interior Minister Anatoly Kulikov claimed that fewer than 20,000 civilians were killed. Sergey Kovalyov's team could offer their conservative, documented estimate of more than 50,000 civilian deaths. Alexander Lebed asserted that 80,000 to 100,000 had been killed and 240,000 had been injured. The number given by the ChRI authorities was about 100,000 killed. According to claims made by Sergey Govorukhin and published in the Russian newspaper \"Gazeta\", approximately 35,000 ethnic Russian civilians were killed by Russian forces operating in Chechnya, most of them during the bombardment of Grozny.\n\nIn the Khasav-Yurt Accord, both sides agreed to an \"all for all\" exchange of prisoners to be carried out at the end of the war. However, despite this commitment, many persons remained forcibly detained. A partial analysis of the list of 1,432 reported missing found that, as of 30 October 1996, at least 139 Chechens were still being forcibly detained by the Russian side; it was entirely unclear how many of these men were alive. As of mid-January 1997, the Chechens still held between 700 and 1,000 Russian soldiers and officers as prisoners of war, according to Human Rights Watch. According to Amnesty International that same month, 1,058 Russian soldiers and officers were being detained by Chechen fighters who were willing to release them in exchange for members of Chechen armed groups. American freelance journalist Andrew Shumack has been missing from the Chechen capital, Grozny since July 1995 and is presumed dead.\n\nThe Khasav-Yurt Accord paved the way for the signing of two further agreements between Russia and Chechnya. In mid-November 1996, Yeltsin and Maskhadov signed an agreement on economic relations and reparations to Chechens who had been affected by the 1994–96 war. In February 1997, Russia also approved an amnesty for Russian soldiers and Chechen separatists alike who committed illegal acts in connection with the War in Chechnya between December 1994 and September 1996.\n\nSix months after the Khasav-Yurt Accord, on 12 May 1997, Chechen-elected president Aslan Maskhadov traveled to Moscow where he and Yeltsin signed a formal treaty \"on peace and the principles of Russian-Chechen relations\" that Maskhadov predicted would demolish \"any basis to create ill-feelings between Moscow and Grozny.\" Maskhadov's optimism, however, proved misplaced. Little more than two years later, some of Maskhadov's former comrades-in-arms, led by field commanders Shamil Basayev and Ibn al-Khattab, launched an invasion of Dagestan in the summer of 1999 – and soon Russia's forces entered Chechnya again, marking the beginning of the Second Chechen War.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2436661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2436661", "title": "François Bernier", "text": "François Bernier\n\nFrançois Bernier (25 September 162022 September 1688) was a French physician and traveller. He was born at Joué-Etiau in Anjou. He was briefly personal physician to Mughal prince Dara Shikoh (28 October 161530 August 1659), the eldest son of the Mughal emperor Shah Jahan, and after Dara Shikoh's demise, was attached to the court of the Mughal emperor Aurangzeb (14 October 161820 February 1707), for around 12 years during his stay in India.\n\nHis 1684 publication \"Nouvelle division de la terre par les différentes espèces ou races qui l'habitent\" (\"A new division of the Earth\") is considered the first published post-Classical classification of humans into distinct races. He also wrote \"Travels in the Mughal Empire\", which is mainly about the reigns of Dara Shikoh and Aurangzeb. It is based on his own extensive journeys and observations, and on information from eminent Mughal courtiers who had witnessed the events at first hand.\n\nBernier abridged and translated the philosophical writings of his friend Pierre Gassendi from Latin into French. Initial editions of Bernier's \"Abregé de la Philosophie de Gassendi\" were published in Paris in 1674 by the family Langlois and in 1675 by Estienne Michallet. A complete edition in eight volumes was published by Anisson and Posuel at Lyon in 1678; Anisson and Posuel joined with Rigaud to publish a second edition in seven volumes in 1684. Bernier objectively and faithfully rendered Gassendi's ideas in his \"Abregé\", without editorial interjection or invention. However, Bernier remained uncomfortable with some of Gassendi's notions: in 1682, Estienne Michallet was again his publisher, putting forth his \"Doutes de Mr. Bernier sur quelques-uns des principaux Chapitres de son Abregé de la Philosophie de Gassendi\".\n\nA son of a farmer, François Bernier, was orphaned very young and was cared for by his uncle, the curé de Chanzeaux. At the age of 15, he moved to Paris to study at the Collège de Clermont (the future Lycée Louis-le-Grand) where he was invited to stay at the home of his younger friend Chapelle, the natural son of Luillier who was a councillor at the parlement in Metz. There Bernier most probably met Cyrano de Bergerac and Molière, and certainly the philosopher Pierre Gassendi (1592–1655), whose aide and secretary he became. He developed a taste for travel (1647) in the company of monsieur d'Arpajon, the French ambassador to Poland and Germany.\n\nIn 1652 during a prolonged stay with Gassendi in the south of France, he managed to become a medical doctor on the strength of a speed-course at the famous Faculté de Montpellier: an intensive three-month course gave the medical degree providing one did not practice on French national territory.\n\nLiberated from his ties to France by the death of Gassendi in 1655, he set out on his twelve-year journey to the East, at 36 years of age: Palestine, Egypt, one year in Cairo, Arabia, and an attempt to enter Ethiopia which was frustrated by civil war in the interior. In 1658 he debarked at Surat in India, in Gujarat state. Attached at first and for a short while to the retinue of Dara Shikoh—the history of whose downfall he was to record—he was installed as a medical doctor at the court of Aurangzeb, the last of the great Mughal emperors.\n\nA tour of inspection by Aurangzeb (1664–65) gave Bernier the opportunity to describe Kashmir, the first and for a long time the only European to do so. In: \"Voyages de F. Bernier (angevin) contenant la description des Etats du Grand Mogol, de l'Indoustan, du royaume de Kachemire\" (David-Paul Maret ed., Amsterdam, 1699). He subsequently visited the other extreme of the empire in Bengal. European medical training was highly esteemed amongst the Mughal and gave him access to all ranks of the court, even on medically required occasions to the Emperor's harem.\n\nAfter his return from Kashmir, he traveled around on his own, meeting with Jean-Baptiste Tavernier in Bengal and—while preparing for a journey to Persia at Surat—with Jean Chardin, that other great traveler in the Orient (1666).\n\nHe returned once more to Surat (1668) to write a memoir on Indian commerce for the use of Jean-Baptiste Colbert (who recently had founded La Compagnie des Indes Orientales). In 1669 Bernier left India for Paris, to stay.\n\nIn 1671 he almost was jailed for writing in defense of the ideas of René Descartes, against whom a judicial arrest had been issued—an exploit he followed with an \"Abrégé de la Philosophie de Gassendi\", also not a subject to arouse official approval (1674).\n\nMeanwhile he was a favored guest at some of the great literary salons, for example that of Marguerite de la Sablière, who introduced him to Jean de La Fontaine; or at that of Ninon de Lenclos. (His much-debated text on \"races\" -- \"A New Division of the Earth\" , of which the second half is dedicated to feminine beauty—may be read against this background.)\n\nIn 1685 Bernier visited London where he met with some famous exiles from France: Hortense Mancini, Duchesse de Mazarin, niece of the redoubtable Cardinal; Saint-Évremond; others. He returned to Paris via the Netherlands, where he probably visited his philosophical correspondent Pierre Bayle.\n\nBernier died in 1688, the year that saw the publication of his \"Lettre sur le quiétisme des Indes\". (see note: )\n\nForemost among his correspondents while he was in India had been Jean Chapelain, who shipped him crates of books, Melchisédech Thévenot, and François de La Mothe Le Vayer. From Chapelain's correspondence we know of a link with the elder Pétis de la Croix, whose son François Pétis de la Croix was sent on a language course to Persia two years after Bernier's return from India.\n\nNote: this description of the life of François Bernier is abstracted from a French introduction by France Bhattacharya to an edition of \"Voyage dans les Etats du Grand Mogol\" (Paris: Fayard, 1981).\n\nOne of the things the newly arriving physician François Bernier noticed in Aurangzeb's capital was the embroidered dressing of the Mughal Emperor's subjects he writes in his \"Travels in the Moghal Empire\": \"Large halls are seen in many places, called \"Karkanahs\", or workshops for the artisans. In one hall, embroiderers are busily employed, superintended by a master.\" He continued, \"Manufactures of silk, fine brocade, and other fine muslins, of which are made turbans, girdles of gold flowers, and drawers worn by Mughal females, so delicately fine as to wear out in one night\" were one of the most expensive forms of clothing ins the world, \"or even more when embroidered with fine needlework.\"\n\nIn India, Bernier came under the protection of Daneshmand Khan (Mullah Shafi'a'i, a native of Yazd), an important official at the court of Aurangzeb. Mullah Shafi'a'i was secretary of state for foreign affairs, grand master of the horse, later treasurer (Mir Bakshi) and governor of Delhi (died 1670). Bernier and Daneshmand seem to have been on terms of mutual esteem, and Bernier always refers to him as \"my Agha\".\n\nTwo excerpts from \"Travels in the Mughal Empire\" illustrate the interchange that followed. The importance of the detail could only fully be appreciated in the last decades of the 20th century, following the contributions by Henry Corbin and Seyyed Hossein Nasr to the history of Islamic philosophy.\n\nA candidate for becoming Bernier's \"pandit\" probably would have come from the circle around Hindu scholars such as Jagannatha Panditaraja, who still was at work under Shah Jahan, or Kavindracharya, who taught Dara Sikhoh Sanskrit. Gode's argument that this pandit was none other than Kavīndrācārya Sarasvatī himself\nhas won general acceptance. His intellectual partner could be someone like Zu'lfaqar Ardistani (died 1670), author of the \"Dabistan-i Mazahib\", an overview of religious diversity (Jewish, Christian Buddhist, Hindu, Muslim ...). He was educated perhaps by Mir Abul-Qasim Astrabadi Findiriski a link between the religious tolerance aspect of the great project of Persian translations, initiated by Akbar and continued by his great-grandson Dara Shikoh, and the School of Isfahan near the end of the Safavid reign; or perhaps he was educated by Hakim Kamran Shirazi, to whom Mir Findiriski referred as \"elder brother\", who studied Christian theology and the Gospel under Portuguese priests, traveled to India to study Sanskrit Shastra, lived with the yogi Chatrupa at Benares, and died, chanting the liberation of the philosophers, at the age of 100. Those were scholars who had a knowledge of Greek peripatetic philosophers (mashsha'un, falasifa—in the Arabic translations), as well as respect for Ibn Sina and Shihabuddin Yahya Suhrawardi Maqtul (Hikmat al Ishraq).\n\nFrance Battacharya notes that she removed, in her critical edition based on the 1724 edition, the chapter \"Lettre à Chapelle sur les atomes\"—as being not so relevant to the context.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35613874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35613874", "title": "Félix Rousseau", "text": "Félix Rousseau\n\nFélix Rousseau (1887–1981) was a Belgian historian.\n\nRousseau was born at Namur on 14 January 1887 and died there on 7 September 1981.\n\n"}
{"id": "29574011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29574011", "title": "Gerald O'Carroll", "text": "Gerald O'Carroll\n\nGerald O'Carroll is an Irish writer and historian. Born in Tralee, County Kerry in 1952, he is the second of ten children of James, an insurance broker, and his wife Elizabeth (née Talbot). Gerald was educated at Catholic primary schools in Tralee and Castlemaine, where the family moved about 1961. He attended the Catholic St. Brendan's College, Killarney, before going to University College Cork, where he graduated with a BA in history, English, and geography in 1972. He taught at second level under the Limerick City Vocational Education Committee, and for short spells on secondment in Bulawayo, Zimbabwe (1983–85) and Madrid, Spain (1991). O'Carroll retired from teaching in 1997 to concentrate on research and publication.\n\nAll of O'Carroll's published works draw their inspiration from the history of southwest Ireland, particularly County Kerry, with particular emphasis on the 12th century Norman settlement and the later Elizabethan and seventeenth-century settlements. These interests informed his first book, the writings of Mr. Justice Robert Day, a Kerry native and Dublin-based member of the court of King's Bench. He next undertook the writing of a history of Tralee. Recognising the need for such a publication, he made contact with Sir Anthony Denny, who was descended from the leading Elizabethan planter of the region, who placed important archive material at his disposal. The resulting book revealed the restrictive town charter of pre-democratic days, but assessed the positive contributions of settler representatives- Blennerhassett, Rowan and Denny included.\nO'Carroll's book on the Geraldine earls of Desmond, published in 2013, was the culmination of over thirty years of interest in the subject. Like his previous books, it drew its inspiration from the fact of historical continuity: despite war, including the occasional massacre in Elizabethan and Cromwellian times, by the nineteenth century the blood of the Geraldine earls was running in the veins of some of the settler families who composed the regional elite. This awareness had been forgotten by historians working within the confines of recent nationalism. O'Carroll lives in Limerick.\n\nMr. Justice Robert Day (1746–1841), the Diaries and the Addresses to Grand Juries (2004);<br>\nThe Pocket History of Kerry (2007);<br>\nThe History of Tralee, Its Charter and Governance (2009);<br>\nThe Earls of Desmond, The Rise and Fall of a Munster Lordship (2013)\n\nblog: www.historytralee.wordpress.com\n"}
{"id": "18150607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18150607", "title": "Historical realism", "text": "Historical realism\n\nHistorical realism requires the writer’s critical knowledge of the historicist who has a different interpretation of the historical events. Hegel’s dialectical theory affected many thinkers concerned with social issues. Both realist and modernist writers wanted to reflect the very changes in their societies in their own ways. In that way, history is of great deal to literature and many literary artists preoccupied themselves with historical materials. In the treatment of history, realist writers have accused society, like what the naturalists did, of being the responsible of the confusion and contradiction in which their heroes, often typical for suffering individuals who struggle against the mainstream ideas and wrong, or at least new, beliefs, find themselves. They show us both the environment, factors that affect people and values that dominate the very spirits of the individuals and picture us a typical end they drag themselves to out of their free will which has been affected by what they see and what they come to believe in causing new emergent ideologies and believes that evoke new social formation and raise contradictions as a result of the hegemonic behaviours of the dominant class over the subservient one. Moreover, literary works tend to reflect a specific historical moment that is of great significance to the writer or the world in which he lives.\n\nWilfred L. Guerin, along with others, as an explanation of what has been said, states that:\n\nAlthough the historical-biographical approach has been evolving over many years, its basic tenets are perhaps most clearly articulated in the writings of the nineteenth-century French critic H. A. Taine, whose phrase race, milieu, et moment, elaborated in his \"History of English Literature\", bespeaks a heredity and environmental determinism. Put simply, this approach sees a literary work chiefly, if not exclusively, as a reflection of its author’s life and times or the life and times of the characters in the work.17\nFar from reflecting what happened to the coming generation, the historical novel, which is the best emblem of historical realism, is considered to be good only on the basis of its truth as mentioned in the Dictionary of Literary Terms and Literary Theory \n\"though writing fiction, the good historical novelist reaches his or her chosen period thoroughly and strives for verisimilitude\".18. Examples of historical novelists are: Balzac, Stendhal and Thomas Mann in Europe, Charles Dickens, George Eliot and Thomas Hardy in Britain.\n\nIn his novel \"Le Rouge et le Noire\", Standhal provides \"an accurate and detailed knowledge of the political situation, the social stratification, and the economic circumstances of a perfectly definite historical moment, namely, that in which France found itself just before the July Revolution...\"19 to most of his scenes in order to make them comprehensible and also \nThe characters, attitudes, and relationships of the dramatis personae, then, are very closely connected with contemporary historical circumstances; contemporary political and social conditions are woven into the action in a manner more detailed and more real than had been exhibited in any earlier novel, and indeed in any works of literary art except those expressly purporting to be politico-satirical, tracts.20 And we can notice, in most of his novels, that “the element of current history and politics is too heavily emphasised...”21\n\nRealism is a historical product, because far from the writers’ talent for writing they need to be influenced by a cause and pushed by surrounding factors that lead to their creative production. Since it is so, they base their works on a real, truthful and accurate event in addition to involving their ideologies and own comments to give the work a power and not just reduce it to a documentary act of historical recording. Its origin was in French where writers were influenced by the socio-historical changes that took place due to the emerged scientific discoveries, industrial revolution, the rising intellectuality and the search for wider knowledge in every field in life.\n\n"}
{"id": "149402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149402", "title": "Hubert Howe Bancroft", "text": "Hubert Howe Bancroft\n\nHubert Howe Bancroft (May 5, 1832 – March 2, 1918) was an American historian and ethnologist who wrote, published and collected works concerning the western United States, Texas, California, Alaska, Mexico, Central America and British Columbia.\n\nHe was born on May 5, 1832, in Granville, Ohio, to Azariah Ashley Bancroft and Lucy Howe Bancroft. The Howe and Bancroft families originally hailed from the New England states of Vermont and Massachusetts, respectively. Bancroft's parents were staunch abolitionists and the family home was a station on the Underground Railroad.\n\nBancroft attended the Doane Academy in Granville for a year, and he then became a clerk in his brother-in-law's bookstore in Buffalo, New York.\nIn March 1852, Bancroft was provided with an inventory of books to sell and was sent to the booming California city of San Francisco to set up a West Coast regional office of the firm. Bancroft was successful in building his company, entering the world of publishing in the process. He also became a serious collector of books, building a collection numbering into the tens of thousands of volumes.\n\nIn 1868, he resigned from his business in favor of his brother, A. L. Bancroft. He had accumulated a great library of historical material and abandoned business to devote himself entirely to writing and publishing history.\n\nBancroft's library consisted of books, maps, and printed and manuscript documents, including a large number of narratives dictated to Bancroft or his assistants by pioneers, settlers, and statesmen. The indexing of the vast collection employed six persons for ten years. The library was moved in 1881 to a fireproof building and, in 1900, numbered about 45,000 volumes.\n\nHe developed a plan to publish a history in 39 volumes of the entire Pacific coast region of North America, from Central America to Alaska. He employed collaborators for the preliminary work, revised it all, and wrote the most important chapters himself. In 1886, the publishing establishment of A. L. Bancroft & Company burned, and the sheets of seven volumes of the history he had written were destroyed.\n\nBancroft's first marriage was to Emily Ketchum in 1859. They had one child, a girl who was born in 1859, named Kate. Emily died in childbirth in 1869. Bancroft married again in 1879. His second wife was Matilda Coley Griffing, with whom he had four children.\n\nAlthough he never graduated from college, in 1875 Bancroft was awarded an honorary Master of Arts degree from Yale in recognition of his massive historical work on \"Native Races of the Pacific States.\" He was also elected a member of the American Antiquarian Society in 1875.\n\nHe died on March 2, 1918, at his country home in Walnut Creek, California. \"Acute peritonitis\" was blamed as the cause of death in published \nnewspaper reports. Bancroft was 85 at his death. His body was interred in the Cypress Lawn Memorial Park in Colma, California.\n\nIn the late 19th century, it was determined that much of the work of which Bancroft claimed authorship had in fact been written by others. This tainted his legacy in the eyes of some scholars, on the principle \"false in one thing, false in all.\" The \"Salt Lake Tribune\" called him a \"purloiner of other peoples' brains\" in 1893.\n\nThe Bancroft Library at UC Berkeley, named in his honor, was founded when the University of California purchased his 60,000-volume book collection in 1905. Bancroft is also the namesake of Bancroft Way in Berkeley, California.\nIn 1885 Bancroft purchased a ranch with an adobe cottage located in Spring Valley, in San Diego County, as a retirement home. The Hubert H. Bancroft Ranch House is now a National Historic Landmark. In addition, part of a property Bancroft bought around 1880 in Contra Costa County, California later became the Ruth Bancroft Garden, when three acres of the remaining farm land was given by Bancroft's grandson Philip to his wife, Ruth Bancroft.\n\nSeveral schools are named for Bancroft, including Bancroft Middle School (Long Beach, California), Bancroft Middle School (Los Angeles, California), Hubert H. Bancroft Elementary School in Sacramento, Bancroft Elementary School in Andover, Massachusetts, and Bancroft Community School in Spring Valley, California.\n\nAn archive of Bancroft family correspondence, collected by his daughter Kate, is held in Special Collections and Archives at the Geisel Library at the University of California, San Diego.\n\n\"Recollections of Hubert Howe Bancroft and the Bancroft Family,\" an oral history interview with Margaret Wood Bancroft, widow of Bancroft's son Griffing, is held in the Regional Oral History Office of the Bancroft Library at the University of California, Berkeley.\n\nBancroft's written works include the following, with the 39-volume set of The Works of Hubert Howe Bancroft (pub. 1874-1890):\n\nBancroft made use of index cards in the organization and compilation of facts for his lengthy and massive series of historical volumes. In the course of his organization of source material and writing, Bancroft made use of scores of research assistants, the contributions of some of whom amounted to the output of co-writers.\n\nOriginally he seems to have intended to use topical sections of writing produced by his assistants as the basis of a broad narrative which he himself would write, but as the work progressed he came to use the statements as they were, with only slight changes. He said his assistants were capable investigators, and there is evidence that some of them deserved his confidence; Frances Fuller Victor, in particular, was a well-known author. However, his failure to acknowledge each contribution created doubt about the quality of the work. Overall, although Bancroft considered himself the author of his works, in contemporary terms it is more accurate to consider him an editor and compiler.\n\nNeither Bancroft, nor most of his assistants, had enough training to avoid stating their personal opinions and enthusiasms, but their works were generally well received in their time. Historian Francis Parkman praised Bancroft's \"The Native Races\" in \"The North American Review\", but Lewis H. Morgan was more critical, based on his newly published theory of Indian culture, in an article named \"Montezuma's Dinner\". Bancroft's response to Morgan's criticism suggests that he did not understand Morgan's theory, which is now generally accepted by scholars.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29310437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29310437", "title": "Ibn Juljul", "text": "Ibn Juljul\n\nAbu Dawud Sulayman ibn Hassan Ibn Juljul () (c. 944 Córdoba – c. 994) was an influential Andalusian Arab physician and pharmacologist of perhaps Spanish extraction. He wrote an important book on the history of medicine. His works on pharmacology were frequently quoted by physicians in Al-Andalus during the 10th and 11th centuries. Some of his works were later studied by Albertus Magnus, like \"De secretis\", but were attributed to a Latinized version of his name, Gilgil.\n\nStarting from the age of fourteen, Ibn Juljul studied medicine for ten years working under the physician Hasdai ibn Shaprut. He later became the personal physician of Caliph Hisham II, and continued working as a teacher of medicine. Ibn al-Baghunish of Toledo was one of his disciples.\n\nIbn Juljul's major book is \"Ṭabaqāt al-aṭibbā’ w’al-hukamā’\" (\"Generations of physicians and Wise Men\", ) which is an important work on the history of medicine using both Eastern and Western sources. The book includes 57 biographies of famous Greek, Islamic, African, and Spanish physicians and philosophers, and contains interesting information on the earliest accounts of Syriac translations into Arabic. The included biographies of contemporary Spanish physicians are notable because they give a clear insight about life in Cordoba during the 10th century. One of the biographies is that of Mohammed ibn Abdun al-Jabali, Ibn Juljul's contemporary and colleague physician at the court of Cordoba. Composed in 377/987, the \"Ṭabaqāt\" is considered to be the second oldest collection of biographies of physicians written in Arabic, where the earliest being \"Taʾrīkh al-aṭibbāʾ\" by Ishaq ibn Hunayn. The \"Ṭabaqāt\" also records some of Ibn Juljul's thoughts on the decline of science in the Eastern Islamic provinces. Ibn Juljul states that:\n\nIbn Juljul also wrote a number of different treatises and letters concerning pharmacology, and wrote multiple translations and commentaries on the works of Dioscorides.\n\n"}
{"id": "17725726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17725726", "title": "Israel–Syria Mixed Armistice Commission", "text": "Israel–Syria Mixed Armistice Commission\n\nThe Israel–Syria Mixed Armistice Commission (ISMAC) was the United Nations commission for observing the armistice between Israel and Syria after the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, as part of the Mixed Armistice Commissions (MAC). The fourth and last truce agreement, the 1949 armistice agreement, was signed between Israel and Syria on 20 July 1949 on Hill 232 near Mahanayim, ending the formal conflict in the former Mandatory Palestine. The Israeli side was represented by Lieutenant Colonel Mordechai Maklef, Yehoshua Penman and Shabtai Rosenne, while the Syrian side was represented by Colonel Fawzi Selo, Lieutenant Colonel Mohamed Nasser and Captain Afif Sizri. While the armistice agreements with Syria concluded the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, they did not mark the end of the Arab–Israeli conflict.\n\nA feature of the Israeli-Syrian General Armistice Agreement (GAA) was the provision for the establishment of a special demilitarized zone (DMZ) between the countries. The DMZ established by the GAA between Israel and Syria was \"defined with a view toward separating the armed forces of the two parties in such manner as to minimize the possibility of friction and incident, while providing for the gradual restoration of normal civilian life in the area of the DMZ, without prejudice to the ultimate settlement\". This provision had to be made because of the divergent viewpoints of the two parties during the armistice negotiations as to the sovereignty of the areas within the boundaries of the former Mandatory Palestine, which had been occupied by Syrian troops. A compromise agreement was finally reached under which the disputed areas were to be completely demilitarized. The armistice demarcation lines between Syria and Israel outside of the DMZ coincided with the international boundary.\n\nThe Israeli-Syrian DMZ comprised 250 square kilometres of land, divided into three areas, to the east and to the northeast of the Sea of Galilee. Under the provisions of the GAA, the Chairman of the Israeli-Syrian Mixed Armistice Commission (ISMAC) was given responsibility for the \"gradual restoration of normal civilian life in the area\" and it was his task to authorize the \"return of civilians to villages and settlements in the DMZ\". The chairman of the Israel-Syrian Mixed Armistice Commission was given duties and powers in addition to those held by the chairman of the other three Mixed Armistice Commissions.\n\nThe Headquarters of the ISMAC was situated at the Customs House near Jisr Banat Yakub and at Mahanayim, The overall HQ of the controlling body of the 4 MACs, the UNTSO, after 3 relocations ended up in Government House in Jerusalem.\n\nWith the instigation of the final truce to the 1948 Israeli war of Independence the only areas of the northern sector of former British Mandate of Palestine not occupied by Israel were those areas along the Jordan River controlled by Syria. Israel insisted on retaining all the territory it had occupied that had been designated for an Arab state. However, it demanded that Syria not be allowed to remain in the areas that Syria had occupied. UN acting mediator Ralph Bunche was able to convince Syria to withdraw on the understanding that the sovereignty of the 3 Israel-Syria DMZs created (totalling ) would remain undetermined until a final peace settlement was achieved.\n\nPractically, all the work carried out by the ISMAC was cantered upon the problems arising in the DMZ. The pattern of disputes concerning the DMZ generally followed three lines:\n\nOn the first point: In 1950, a new kibbutz at Beit Katzir was established in the southern DMZ. Like most of their kibbutzim in troubled areas, it was fortified with trenches with a double-apron of barbed-wire fence from behind which its settlers sallied out to cultivate the surrounding land, digging irrigation canals to channel the water from the Sea of Galilee with such vigour that before long no Arab farmer in the area was allowed into the stretch of land between the kibbutz and the lake. The MAC decided that the new settlement at Beit Katzir erected by returning Israelis had been established without the agreement of the Chairman of the MAC, it was fenced in, so as to be more the nature of a military outpost and that the fence should therefore be removed. Israel complied with that decision.\n\nThe second point \"the return of civilians\" to the DMZ gave rise to a good deal of disputes. The chairman of the MAC could interpret his duties and powers under the GAA only in such a way so as to permit the return of Syrian and Israeli civilians in numbers corresponding to the number of Syrian and Israeli civilians prior to the end of the British Mandate. According to this principle, the MAC Chairman authorized Syrian and Israeli civilians to return to the DMZ to resume their civilian life there as of 8 September. By the end of January 1950, the number of Israelis returned to the area under this ruling, roughly equalled the number of Israelis who had resided there at the end of the mandatory regime.\n\nThe number of Syrians returned by the end of January 1950 amounted to approximately 75% of those living there at the expiration of the Mandate. At first, Syrian representatives opposed the ruling of the chairman and requested that the number of returning civilians be limited. At a later stage, however, the Syrian representatives accepted the Chairman of the MAC’s ruling as to the number of returning refugees, but the Syrian delegation were still opposed to the MAC Chairman's ruling that new settlements may be erected by returning settlers, both Arab and Israeli.\n\nThis Syrian attitude appeared to the Chairman of the MAC to be partly motivated by the disparity of economic conditions under which the returning Arab and Israeli civilians live. The returning Israeli settlers were well equipped with building materials, machinery, and agricultural implements and were therefore, in a position to speedily establish permanent settlements that Syria considered of potential military value. On the other hand, returning Arab refugees often arrived completely destitute in their former villages, most of which have been leveled by Israeli forces prior to their withdrawal from the area after the signing of the Israeli-Syrian Armistice Agreement.\n\nThe Chairman of the ISMAC felt there was no doubt that the dispute could have been easily resolved if the economic conditions of civilians returning from both sides could have been somewhat equalized by providing the returning Arab refugees with building materials and with agricultural implements. However, the Chairman of the ISMAC and the Chief of Staff UNTSO had no means at their disposal to assist the rehabilitation of Arab refugees returning to their homes nor were they in a position officially to enlist the co-operation of any of the other United Nations agencies in the area that might conceivably be concerned with this problem. However, the representative in Beirut of the United Nations Relief for Palestine Refugees (fore runner of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees established on 8 December 1949)\nand the International Red Cross did provide limited aid to the returning Arab refugees.\n\nAs to the third point, the ISMAC, with the co-operation of both parties, had by 12 February 1950 completed the removal of military installations, mines and fortifications from the demilitarized zones as specified in the GAA.\n\nAs part of its dispute with Syria over use of the Demilitarized Zone created by the Israel-Syria Armistice Agreement, Israel from 1951 refused to attend meetings of the Israel–Syria Mixed Armistice Commission. The U.N. Security Council, in its resolution of 18 May 1951, noted that refusal to participate in Mixed Armistice Commission meetings was \"inconsistent with the objectives and intent of the Armistice Agreement\".\n\nOn 20 June 1951 Israel informed the UNTSO that it would no longer attend meetings of the Syrian/Israeli MAC as long as complaints involving the DMZs were on the agenda. Israel argued that Israel alone had sovereignty over the DMZs and that Syria had no rights and therefore, no standing to discuss the zones. Israel immobilized the MAC working within the DMZ. Israel also refused to allow UN observers to carry out a cadastral demarcation of the line of the DMZs and thereby no one was ever sure exactly where the line lay.\n\nThe Israel position concerning the competence of the MAC to deal with questions connected with the DMZ was a direct contradiction of the Syrian position on the same subject. The Israel position was set out in the following extracts from the memorandum from the Israel Ministry of Foreign Affairs of 27 December 1954:\n\n\"…The absence of any Syrian \"locus standi\" in the zone is demonstrated conclusively in the limitation of the competence of the Mixed Armistice Commission with regard to matters of the DMZ. According to paragraph 5 (c) of article V, it is the Chairman of the Commission (or the Chief of Staff), and not the Commission, of which Syria is a member, that is responsible for ensuring the implementation of article V, governing the DMZ.\n\"It is evident ... that no distinction can be deduced between the Chairman's jurisdiction over civilian matters and his competence with regard to the military aspects of article V. Indeed, paragraph 5 (c) of that article defines the Chairman's responsibility as ensuring the full implementation of the article without any difference whatever between its civilian life clauses and its military provisions.\n\nThe principle of the personal responsibility of the ISMAC Chairman was followed in practice by the Israeli delegation throughout the years of the ISMAC existence, except when otherwise agreed to by Israel (as for instance in a number of MAC discussions held before 1951). The chairmen of the ISMAC had taken up and settled numerous questions concerning the DMZ directly with the Israeli representatives. From July 1954 to January 1955 at least, 15 such matters, regarding civilian as well as military questions of the zone, had been brought by the MAC Chairman before the Israel authorities.\n\nSyria, however, persisted in Israel’s opinion, to attempt to create for itself a position that would entitle it to intervene in a territory that lay outside its State boundaries, and in several instances questions concerning the DMZ had appeared at Syria’s insistence on the agenda of the MAC. It was evident that Israel could not acquiesce in attempts by Syria to gain rights Israel felt it was not entitled to, and remained consistent in upholding what they felt was the basic tenet of the GAA: exclusion of Syria from any rights within the DMZ, even if this sometimes meant the Israeli delegation absenting itself from MAC meetings when Syria sought to intervene in questions affecting the zone.\n\nThe Syrian position on this matter was contained in the first part of the aide-mimoire of the Syrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This aide-memoire also refers to the \"note verbale\" of the Syrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Chief of Staff dated 17 June 1954 [S/3230]. The Syrian position may be summarized as follows: the MAC being competent to supervise the execution of the provisions of the GAA, including article V, relating to the DMZ, was empowered to deal with complaints submitted by the parties relating to the implementation of article V. Paragraph 5 (c) of article V of the armistice agreement refers to the responsibility of the Chairman of the MAC and UN observers for ensuring the full implementation of the article, whereas the first paragraph of article VII provides that the MAC shall supervise the execution of the provisions of the agreement.\n\nSuch conflicting views as to the competence of the MAC in relation to the DMZ resulted in the failure of the MAC to hold regular meetings since 20 June 1951, the Syrian delegation refusing to withdraw complaints relating to the DMZ from the list of complaints pending before the MAC, while the Israel delegation insists that such complaints be deleted.\n\n\"There are differences of opinion between the parties to the Armistice Agreement on the meaning of various provisions of article V, including those which relate to the Chairman's powers, but neither party requested an interpretation by the MAC in the manner established by Article VII of the agreement, and the Chairman has had to rely on his own interpretation, knowing that in many cases it would probably be found unacceptable by one party or by both and that the requests of the Chairman of the ISMAC were likely to be met with refusal on the ground that the Chairman of the ISMAC was exceeding his powers or acting in some other manner contrary to the provisions of the Armistice Agreement.\"\n\nMay 1951, Syrian military forces cross into Israel at a point where the Jordan River meets the Sea of Galilee and occupy a hill. They are ejected by the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) after heavy fighting.\n\n31 December 1952, Following incidents in the area of Tel Katzir, the Israel General Staff officer in charge of the Israeli delegation to the MAC stated that the terrain features prevailing in the area south-west of Sea of Galilee imposed certain security considerations, and that Israel considered that area as a security zone. The area east and south of Tel Katzir was a vital part of that security zone, and Israel could not accept the claim of free access of Arab farmers from Tawafiq to some fields within the area. The Chairman of the MAC did not recognize the Israeli claim that this area is vital to Israel's security.\n\nThe fighting in the spring of 1953 resulted in Syria managing to gain control of the village of al-Hamma in the southern zone, all of the tiny northern zone and the uninhabited narrow stretch of land on the east side of the Jordan River in the central zone. Israel lay claim the remainder, most of the southern zone and the entire central zone west of the Jordan River.\n\nSeptember 1953 Israel advances plans to divert water to help irrigate the coastal Sharon Plain and eventually the Negev desert and launches a diversion project on a channel midway between the Huleh Marshes and the Sea of Galilee in the central DMZ to be rapidly constructed. Syria claims that it would dry up of Syrian land. The UNTSO Chief of Staff Major General Vagn Bennike of Denmark noted that the project was denying water to two Palestinian water mills, was drying up Palestinian farm land and was a substantial military benefit to Israel against Syria. The US cut off aid to Israel. The Israeli response was to increase work. UN Security Council Resolution 100 \"deemed it desirable\" for Israel to suspend work started on 2 September \"pending urgent examination of the question by the Council\". Israel finally backed off by moving the intake out of the DMZ and for the next three years the US kept its economic sanctions by threatening to end aid channelled to Israel by the Foreign Operations Administration and insisting on tying the aid with Israel's behaviour. The Security Council ultimately rejected Syrian claims that the work was a violation of the Armistice Agreements and drainage works were resumed and the work was completed in 1957.\n\nSyria claimed that on 30 June 1954, an Israel armoured launch attacked the Syrian post of El Koursi, situated on Syrian soil, with its 20 mm. gun. A similar Syrian claim was repeated for the following day. The Syrians alleged that on 1 July 1954 two Israeli armoured launches attacked the Syrian post of El Koursi with their 20 mm. and 57 mm. guns and further alleged that artillery fire continued for approximately one hour and forty-five minutes, causing material damage to the post.\n\nIsraeli kibbutzniks from Tel Katzir had been conducting illegal work using tractors on lands belonging to the civilian Arab population of the southern DMZ (Tawafiq) when on 5 December 1954 in the southern DMZ, the Syrians alleged that a group of 8 armed regular Israel police had fired on two civilians from Tawafiq.\n\n8 December 1954 A party of 5 Israeli soldiers were captured several kilometres inside Syrian territory. The soldiers are subjected to excruciating torture by the Syrians. After interrogation they admit to carrying out a mission to retrieve a phone tapping device.\n\n12 December 1954 Israeli Air Force Meteors forced a Syrian DC-3 Dakota to land at Lod airport after the plane intruded into Israeli airspace. The plane strayed near the vicinity of the Israeli city Acre. The passengers and crew were released shortly thereafter after completion of UN and Israeli inquiries. Author Avi Shlaim claims that the plane was forced down as a pretext to facilitate a prisoner exchange and he referred to the incident as \"unprecedented.\" He also notes that Moshe Sharett acknowledged this in speech.\n\n11 December 1955, under the command of Ariel Sharon, Israel sent two paratroop battalions backed by artillery and mortar batteries and attacks Syrian gun emplacements at Buteiha Farm and the village of Kursi (El Koursi) outside the DMZ, on the northeastern shore of the Sea of Galilee. 50 Syrians were killed and 30 Syrian soldiers taken prisoner. Israel lost 6 killed. The raid was prompted by repeated Syrian attacks on Israeli fishing in the Sea of Galilee.\n\n30 October 1956, when Israel attacks Egypt across the Sinai peninsula in co-ordination with an Anglo-French attack on Suez, the remainder of the Palestinians living in the DMZs are driven into Syria.\n\n\nBen-Dror, Elad (2015). Ralph Bunche and the Arab-Israeli Conflict: Mediation and the UN 1947–1949. Routledge. .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20194472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20194472", "title": "Istvan Teplan", "text": "Istvan Teplan\n\nIstván Teplán (; born 1958 son of István Sr biochemist) is a Hungarian economic historian, sociologist and educator. He is one of the creators of the first international Western-style graduate school in the post-communist Central Europe.\n\nTeplan was educated in Hungary and the US, where he studied with Immanuel Wallerstein at Binghamton University.\n\nThe idea of a tri-city (Prague-Budapest-Warsaw) international graduate school was supported by former Czech President Václav Havel, former Hungarian President Árpád Göncz and former Polish Foreign Minister Bronislaw Geremek.\n\nWith George Soros he was one of the founders of Central European University (CEU), a graduate school to train the next generation of leaders and to facilitate the democratic transition in East and Central Europe. He participated in the first meeting of CEU in Dubrovnik in 1989. As an Executive Vice President he served CEU between 1992 and 2007. Under his leadership CEU had developed into an internationally recognized institution of higher learning.\n\nAs an educator he served on the Administrative Board of the International Association of Universities (UNESCO) between 2000 and 2008 and chaired the Council of the Inter-University Center (IUC) in Dubrovnik between 1998 and 2007.\n\nHe served as the Director General of the Government Center for Public Administration in Hungary which trains public servants for the Hungarian public sector and the European Union.\n\nHe was a board member of the European Institute of Public Administration, and member of the Scientific Committee of the European Senior Civil Servant project, to train the next generation of public sector leaders for the European Union.\n\nTeplan is the chief advisor of the State Minister for Environment of Hungary. During the Hungarian Presidency of the European Union (January 1 to June 30, 2011) he was the Chair of the EU Council Working Party on International Environmental Issues dealing with Global and Horizontal affairs. He played a key role in Hungary’s preparation for the UN Conference on Sustainable Development (UNCSD-2012). He was the founding Director General of the Hungarian National Institute for Environment. He was appointed Ministerial Envoy for the Budapest Water Summit, to be held in October 2013 in Budapest under the aegis of the UN. He is a member of the Management Board of the European Environment Agency (EEA) in Copenhagen.\n\nHe became a Board member of the Regional Environmental Center for Central and Eastern Europe in 2009.\n\nTeplan is a contributor to international conferences and journals. As a scholar he contributed to the book, \"Budapest and New York, Studies in Metropolitan Transformation\" 1870-1930\n\nTeplan is a recipient of the Officers of the Hungarian Republic.\n"}
{"id": "26246070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26246070", "title": "James Kelly (historian)", "text": "James Kelly (historian)\n\nJames Kelly MRIA (born 1959) is a professor of Irish history, specialising in the period 1700–1850, and is a prolific author, who also edits several learned journals.\n\nKelly is a professor at St Patrick's College, Drumcondra, Dublin, which is affiliated to Dublin City University. He also edits for the Irish Manuscripts Commission and for the Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy.\n\nas author, co-author or principal editor:\n\n"}
{"id": "149522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149522", "title": "John Leland (antiquary)", "text": "John Leland (antiquary)\n\nJohn Leland or Leyland (13 September,  – 18 April 1552) was an English poet and antiquary.\n\nLeland has been described as \"the father of English local history and bibliography\". His \"Itinerary\" provided a unique source of observations and raw materials for many subsequent antiquaries, and introduced the county as the basic unit for studying the local history of England, an idea that has been influential ever since.\n\nMost evidence for Leland's life and career comes from his own writings, especially his poetry. He was born in London on 13 September, most probably in about 1503, and had an older brother, also named John. Having lost both his parents at an early age, he and his brother were raised by Thomas Myles. Leland was educated at St Paul's School, London, under its first headmaster, William Lily. It was here that he already met some of his future benefactors, notably William Paget.\n\nLeland was subsequently sent to Christ's College, Cambridge, graduating in 1522 (BA). While studying there, he was for a short time imprisoned, having accused a certain knight of collaborating with Richard de la Pole, the Yorkist claimant to the throne (d. 1525). He proceeded to Lambeth, London, serving Thomas Howard, 2nd Duke of Norfolk, as tutor to his son Thomas. When the duke died in 1524, the king sent Leland to Oxford, where as Anthony Wood later claimed from tradition, he became a fellow of All Souls College. He would later deplore the state of education at Oxford, which he felt was too conservative in its approach to classical studies.\n\nBetween 1526 and 1528, Leland proceeded to Paris, studying along with many fellow expatriates, both English and German. His original plan to study in Italy, too, never succeeded. Leland honed his skills at composing Latin poetry and sought the acquaintance of humanist scholars whom he much admired, such as Guillaume Budé and Jacques Lefèvre d'Étaples. A scholar of particular importance for Leland was François Dubois (Silvius), professor at the Collège de Tournai, who had a profound effect on his poetic as well as antiquarian interests. While in France, Leland kept in touch with his friends and sponsors in England, probably including Thomas Wolsey (d. 1530), Cardinal and Lord Chancellor, who made him rector at Laverstoke, Hampshire.\n\nBy 1529, Leland had returned to England. When Wolsey fell from the king's favour in that year, Leland appears to have sought the patronage of Thomas Cromwell, a relationship which would help explain his rising fortunes over the next few years. He was appointed one of the chaplains to King Henry VIII, who gave him the rectory of Peuplingues (Pepeling), in the marshes of Calais (though he may never have visited the place). In 1533, Leland received papal dispensation for four benefices, on condition that he became subdeacon within two years and priest within seven. He was appointed prebendary of Wilton Abbey in 1535 and received two adjacent benefices.\n\nLeland and Nicholas Udall composed verses to be read or recited at the pageant of Anne Boleyn's arrival in London in 1533, which was staged for the occasion of her coronation. Their common patron was probably Thomas, Duke of Norfolk and Cornwall. The poets worked together again during 1533 and 1534, when Leland contributed verses for Udall's \"Floures for Latine Spekynge\".\n\nIn 1533, the king appears to have entrusted Leland with a document, \"a moste gratius commission\" (or \"principis diploma\" as he called it in Latin), which authorized him to examine and use the libraries of all religious houses in England. Leland spent the next few years travelling from house to house, for the most part shortly before they were dissolved, compiling numerous lists of significant or unusual books in their libraries. About 1535, he met the ex-Carmelite churchman and fellow antiquary John Bale, who much admired his work and offered his assistance.\n\nIn 1536, not long after the First Suppression Act commanding the dissolution of lesser monasteries was passed, Leland lamented the spoliation of monastic libraries and addressed Thomas Cromwell in a letter seeking aid for the rescue of books. He complained that\nIn the 1530s and 1540s, the royal library was reorganised to accommodate hundreds of books that were previously kept in monastic collections. Leland himself describes how Henry's palaces at Greenwich, Hampton Court and Westminster were adapted for the purpose. Leland's part in this is uncertain.\n\nIn humanist fashion, Leland styled himself \"antiquarius\", a title which was at one time interpreted as referring to a formal appointment as \"king's antiquary\": however, it is now understood to have been merely Leland's own preferred way of describing himself. There is no evidence that he personally oversaw the relocation of the books to their new home or received a librarian's wages. What he did do was to compile his lists of important volumes, and to take measures to encourage their preservation.\n\nEven after the dissolution, Leland did not abandon his hunt for books. For instance, he obtained official permission to avail himself of the library belonging to the defunct monastery of Bury St Edmunds. The descriptions of Britain which he encountered in the manuscripts, however, and his personal experiences of travel, also sparked off fresh interests. By about 1538, Leland had turned his attention to English and Welsh topography and antiquities, embarking on a series of journeys which lasted six years. Probably over the summer of 1538 (though there may also have been earlier and/or later trips), he made an extended excursion through Wales. He subsequently made a number of journeys in England: the exact sequence and their dates are again uncertain, but there seem to have been five major English itineraries, taken over the summers of the years 1539 to 1543. His one firmly dated itinerary is that of 1542, which took him to the West Country. By that date he had been on a tour to the north-west, which went via the Welsh marches to Cheshire, Lancashire and Cumberland; while other itineraries took him to the west Midlands, the north-east (reaching Yorkshire and County Durham), and the Bristol region. He probably explored the south-east in shorter excursions. He is not known to have toured East Anglia, for which only a few fragmentary notes survive.\n\nLeland kept notebooks on his travels, in which he entered and assessed information from personal observation, and from books, charters and oral sources. It is this material which we now know as his 'Itinerary'.\n\nIn the 1906–10 edition, the \"Itinerary\" runs to five printed volumes. It comprises rough notes and very early drafts, the raw materials for a more digested description of England and Wales—Leland would not have envisaged publishing it in anything like its present form. The county on which he appears to have made greatest progress in organising his material was Kent. \"Let this be the firste chapitre of the booke\", he wrote; \"The King hymself was borne yn Kent. Kent is the key of al Englande.\" John Bale later listed an \"Itinerarium Cantiae\" (Itinerary of Kent) among Leland's writings.\n\nAlthough Leland's Itinerary notes remained unpublished until the eighteenth century, they provided a significant quarry of data and descriptions for William Camden's \"Britannia\" (first edition, 1586), and many other antiquarian works.\n\nIn the mid-1540s, Leland wrote a letter to Henry VIII in which he outlined his achievements so far, and his future plans. It was subsequently published by John Bale in 1549 (with Bale's own additional commentary) under the title \"The laboryouse journey & serche of Johan Leylande for Englandes antiquitees\". The letter has traditionally (following Bale) been regarded as a \"New Year's gift\" to the King for January 1546, but James Carley has shown that it must have been composed in late 1543 or early 1544 (so that if it was presented at the new year, which is not certain, it would have been in 1544).\n\nIn the letter, Leland reported on his endeavours to preserve books, and the extent and thoroughness of his travels through England and Wales: \n\nHe also described what use he intended to make of the information he had accumulated. He noted four projects:\n\nOf these projects, \"De uiris illustribus\" was already largely complete (it was written in two phases, in -6 and -6), but the others would never come to fruition. Polydore Vergil appears to have suggested that Leland had been unrealistically over-ambitious: he was \"a vaynegloryouse persone, whyche woulde promyse more, than ever he was able or intended to perfourme\".\n\nLeland was concerned to record evidence for the history of England and Wales as it was visible in the landscape, and he therefore took pains to note all kinds of archaeological remains, including megaliths, hillforts, and Roman and medieval ruins. He came across several Roman inscriptions, though he was unable to read most of them, complaining of one that it was made up of \"letters for whole words, and 2. or 3. letters conveid in one\". He often reported finds of coins, writing of Richborough, Kent, for example, that more Roman money had been discovered there \"then in any place els of England\". He investigated and recorded building materials in some detail.\n\nHe was sometimes able to make astute and informed deductions from what he saw. At Lincoln, for example, he identified three phases of urban development, beginning with a British settlement at the top of the hill (close to which \"much Romaine mony is found\"), the Saxon and medieval town further south, and a more recent riverside development at Wigford. He was able to judge that the existing fabric of Ripon Minster \"indubitately was made sins the Conquest\". He correctly distinguished what he called \"Briton brykes\" (actually Roman bricks) at several geographically dispersed sites, including Verulamium, Richborough, Lympne, Dover Castle, Canterbury, and Bewcastle.\n\nHe was normally content to record surface remains and recovered artefacts, but on one occasion he adopted a more interventionist approach. At the hillfort at Burrough Hill, Leicestershire, he pulled some stones from the gateway to establish whether it had been walled or not: they were mortared with lime, which persuaded him that it had been. The account included in Leland's \"Itinerary\" may be regarded as the earliest archaeological field report.\n\nLeland was a staunch patriot, and believed firmly in the historical veracity of King Arthur. He therefore took offence when the Italian scholar Polydore Vergil cast doubts on certain elements in the Arthurian legend in his \"Anglica Historia\" (published in 1534). Leland's first response was an unpublished tract, written perhaps in 1536, the \"Codrus sive Laus et Defensio Gallofridi Arturii contra Polydorum Vergilium\". (\"Codrus\", a pseudonym for Vergil, was a type-name drawn from Juvenal for a wretched and dreary hack-poet.) He followed this with a longer published work, the \"Assertio inclytissimi Arturii regis Britannia\" (1544). In both texts, Leland drew on a wide range of literary, etymological, archaeological and oral sources to defend the historicity of Arthur. Although his central belief was flawed, his work preserved much evidence for the Arthurian tradition that might otherwise have been lost.\n\nLeland's material provides invaluable evidence for reconstructing the lost \"tomb monument\" of Arthur (a fabrication of the twelfth century) at Glastonbury Abbey.\n\nOn his itinerary of 1542, Leland was the first to record the tradition (possibly influenced by the proximity of the villages of Queen Camel and West Camel) identifying the hillfort of Cadbury Castle in Somerset as Arthur's Camelot:\nIn 1542, Henry presented Leland with the valuable rectory of Great Haseley, Oxfordshire. The year following he preferred him to a canonry of King's College, now Christ Church, Oxford, and about the same time, collated him to a prebend in the church of Sarum. He was an absentee pluralist, with the income and leisure to pursue his interests. He retired with his collections to his house in the parish of St Michael-le-Querne, adjoining Cheapside, London, where he intended to work on his various projects. However, in February 1547 near the time of Henry's death, \"he fell besides his wits\". Leland was certified insane in March 1550 and died, still mentally deranged, on 18 April 1552, aged about 48.\n\nLeland was buried in the church of St Michael-le-Querne near his home. However the church was destroyed in the Great Fire of London in 1666, and not rebuilt, and so Leland's tomb has been lost.\n\nFollowing Leland's death or (more probably) his descent into madness, King Edward VI arranged for Leland's library, including many medieval manuscripts, to be placed in the custody of Sir John Cheke. John Bale consulted some of them at this time. Cheke fell from favour on the accession of Queen Mary, and departed for mainland Europe in 1554: from that point onwards, and continuing after Cheke's death in 1557, the library was dispersed. Books were acquired by collectors including Sir William Cecil, William, Lord Paget, John Dee and Archbishop Matthew Parker.\n\nLeland's own manuscript notebooks were inherited by Cheke's son, Henry, and in 1576 they were borrowed and transcribed by John Stow, allowing their contents to begin to circulate in antiquarian circles. Antiquaries who gained access to them through Stow included William Camden, William Harrison, Robert Glover and Francis Thynne. The original notebooks passed from Henry Cheke to Humphrey Purefoy, and so (following his death in 1598) to Humphrey's son Thomas, who divided many of them between his two cousins John Hales and the antiquary, William Burton. Burton subsequently managed to recover several of the items given to Hales, and in 1632 and 1642–3 donated most of the collection—comprising the \"Collectanea\", \"De scriptoribus\" and several of the \"Itinerary\" notebooks—to the Bodleian Library, Oxford, where the volumes remain.\n\nThe Leland Trail is a footpath, which follows the footsteps of John Leland as he traversed South Somerset between 1535 and 1543 in the course of his investigation of the region's antiquities. The Leland Trail begins at King Alfred's Tower on the Wiltshire/Somerset border and finishes at Ham Hill Country Park.\n\n\nLeland's prose writings, published and unpublished, include:\n\nLeland's writings are an invaluable primary source, not only for the local history and the geography of England, but also for literary history, archaeology, social history, and economic history.\n\nThis is a new and authoritative edition (with English translation) of the work previously published by Hall as \"Commentarii de Scriptoribus Britannicis\".\n\n\n\nThis edition, based on Toulmin Smith's, rearranges Leland's topographical descriptions of England (but not Wales) in county chapters, and renders them in modern English. It is less authoritative for scholarly purposes, but considerably more accessible and easier to navigate. It also corrects a small number of errors by Toulmin Smith.\n\n\nCarley's introduction to the above volume incorporates the fullest and most up-to-date information on Leland's life and work.\n\n"}
{"id": "40946442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40946442", "title": "Jorge Núñez Sánchez", "text": "Jorge Núñez Sánchez\n\nJorge Núñez Sánchez (born February 6, 1947) is an Ecuadorian writer, historian, and professor.\n\nHe is the author of 56 books and co-author of 66 other books.\n\nIn 2010 he was awarded the Ecuadorian national prize Premio Eugenio Espejo in Culture.\n\nNúñez Sánchez was born in Magdalena, Bolívar Province, Ecuador. His father was Tirso Núñez Moya and his mother was Amada Sánchez García.\n\nIn 1970 he married Susana Grijalva Chacón who he later divorced.\n\nBetween 1973-1975 he was an assistant professor at the Central University of Ecuador, and was in charge of the Department of Socioeconomic Problems. In 1975 he won a three-year scholarship from the National Institute of Anthropology and History of Mexico through the IECE. He was hired as a researcher at the National Institute of Anthropology and History of Mexico INAH. He studied the topic \"oligarchy and imperialism\" and finished his first semester, but due to the serious financial crisis of 1976, which resulted in the devaluation of the Mexican peso by 100%, the government abolished all scholarships and he had to return to Quito in December.\n\nHe returned to Ecuador from Mexico with enough material to write a non-fiction book titled \"The Endless War: United States vs Latin America\" (Quito, 1980) which has gone through 4 editions. The book related the number of attacks on Latin American republics, from the Monroe Doctrine to the interventions in Central America, notably in the case of Nicaragua, Cuba, Granada, et al. He also wrote a renowned yet controversial book \"Myth of Independence\" (1976) which explained how, through war, the oligarchy, who already had a socioeconomic advantage, had gained the political power in the Royal Audience of Quito.\n\nIn 1977 he was the chair of Socioeconomic Problems of Ecuador & Latin America, and Latin American Urban History at the Central University of Ecuador, where he continues to teach today as a full-time professor.\n\nIn 1979 he was sent by the \"New Journal\" (Revista Nueva) of Quito to Nicaragua as a war correspondent. There he witnessed first hand the struggle of the Nicaraguan people against the Somoza dictatorship. He spent 2 months in Managua and nearby towns. That year he published \"The History of Ecuadorian Political Parties\" (1979). In 1981 organized the Third Meeting of Latin American and Caribbean Historians ADHILAC, held in Quito and was appointed Executive Secretary of that institution. In 1983 he joined the Democratic Left. That year he was invited to Cuba by its Academy of Sciences, and his work on U.S. interventions appeared in \"Gramma\", the only newspaper in Havana.\n\nIn 1984 he was reelected the Secretary of ADHILAC. Director of National Social Security Institute IESS, Patrick Avila, hired him to direct a research program, the result of which was the 500-page work \"History of the Ecuadorian Social Security\", with data and statistics on the institution since it was founded in 1928 and the evolution of its services and benefits.\n\nIn 1985 he married Jenny Londoño López of Guayaquil. That year he published \"Nicaragua, the Invincible Trench\" (1985).\n\nBetween 1988-1989 he was the Deputy Secretary of Culture and chaired the National Counsel of Culture during the administration of President Rodrigo Borja. In 1989 he went to Seville, Spain, with a one-year scholarship as a researcher in the Archive of the Indies and wrote a long study titled \"\"History of the Ecuadorian oligarchy 1750-1912\" which he completed in 1992 and gave to CONUEP for publication. The Cultural Center of Madrid opened its doors for him to give an historical conference. In 1989 he published in Quito a book titled \"Historical Consciousness of Andrés Bello\"\n\nIn 1990 he was elected president of the Association of Latin American and Caribbean Historians ADHILAC, during the \"V International Meeting\" held in São Paulo. In 1991 he published a 127-page book titled \"Interview with Simon Bolivar\", a fiction essay in which the liberator goes on a voluntary exile in 1830.\n\nIn 1991 he published \"The Thought of Jose Peralta\" with an introductory study and the complete version of Peralta's work about slavery in Latin America. In 1992 he was appointed the director of the Department of History and Geography of the House of Ecuadorian Culture, and he published \"Towards a Latin American theory of History\", which was published jointly by the ADHILAC and Michoacán’s college in Mexico. Since 1993 he had traveled annually as Visiting Professor of the University of Brasilia and Michoacan de San Nicolas Hidalgo, to teach liberal art courses. In 1993 he published \"Essays on the history of ideas in Latin America\", a book of 5 essays on the ideas of Simon Bolivar, Eloy Alfaro, Jose Peralta, and the illustration and the expansionist ideas in the United States, with key sections on the evolution of ideas in the continent. He also published \"The Noontime Country\" which contained a collection of articles previously published in newspapers and magazines. As coauthor he has collaborated in the book \"New History of Ecuador\" of the National Publishing Corporation.\n\nHe is currently a professor at the Central University of Ecuador and Treasurer of the National Academy of History.\n"}
{"id": "32538922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32538922", "title": "Kadambas of Hangal", "text": "Kadambas of Hangal\n\nThe Kadambas of Hangal was a South Indian dynasty during the Late Classical period on the Indian subcontinent, which originated in the region of Karnataka. Chatta Deva who reigned from 980-1031 CE founded the dynasty. He helped Western Chalukyas in the coup against the Rashtrakutas; re-established the Kadamba Dynasty mostly as a feudatory of Western Chalukyas, but his successors enjoyed considerable independence and were almost sovereign rulers of Goa and Konkan till 14th century CE.\n\nThe successors of Chatta Deva occupied both Banavasi and Hangal and are known as Kadambas of Hangal. Uniting Banavasi and Hangal, distinguished himself against the Cholas and carved out a kingdom (which stretched, on this side, including Ratnagiri district, up to Kolhapur). He is referred to as having conquered Konkan. When the Chalukyas under their king, Jayasimha II made an advance on Dhar (capital of the Malavas) and defeated Bhoja, who was then the Paramara king, the part played by Chaltadev (Chatta Deva), the feudatory of the Chalukyas, was significant. During 1075-1116 Kirtivarma subdued the 7 Konkans.\n\nDue to the struggle between the Hoysalas and the Yadavas, for supremacy, the Kadambas of Hangal under Kamdeva marched against the Konkan and compelled Vijayadatta (to transfer his allegiance to him). But during 1187 and 1188, immediately on his accession, Jayakesi III declared himself independent. Later Kadambas kept paying nominal allegiance to Yadavas and Hoysalas of Dorasamudra and thus maintained their independence.\n\nDifferent families of Kadambas ruled southern India, notable were Kadambas of Hangal, Kadambas of Goa, Kadambas of Halasi and Kadambas of Banavasi.\nThe Kadambas of Banavasi declined by sixth century, by the tenth century Kadamba were local chiefs, the Kadamba of Hangal emerged as a vassal of the Western Chalukyas, and the Kadambas of Goa at Goa and Konkan until the fourteenth century. Similarly some more minor Kadamba branches established, they remained vassals.\n\nThey served as regional governors for Kadambas of Banavasi and then Kadambas of Hangal.\n\nAfter the fall of the Western Gangas, the \"Kadambas of Bayalnad\" established as independent kingdom. It was founded by Kaviyammarasa, who ruled towards end of 10th century CE.\n\nKadambas of Nagarkhanda descendents of Mayuravarma of Hangal, served as regional governors, Nagarkhanda is the district to the north-east of Banavasi. They titled as \"boon lords of Banavasipura\", their capital was at Bandhavapura. Initially the Kadambas of Hangal refused to acknowledge suzerainty of Kalachuris of Kalyani, that led to war between them, then Kalachuris helped Somadeva as per the 1159 inscription Somadeva subordinate of Kalachuris, they conquered Banavasi and handed it over to Somadeva (in 1165).\n\nThe Kadambas of Uchchangi were in name only kings of Banavasi actually the power remain with Kadambas of Hangal.\n\nKadambas coins were one the heaviest and perhaps purest of all medieval Indian gold coinage. Kadambas issued 2 types of gold coins, namely \"Punch-marked gold coins\" and \"Die struck gold coins\". During 1075-1094 CE, Shanti Varma, issued gold punch marked coin\nand in 1065 CE, Toyimadeva, issued die struck gold coins (Pagoda).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11225400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11225400", "title": "Kate Webb", "text": "Kate Webb\n\nKate Webb (24 March 1943 – 13 May 2007) was a New Zealand-born Australian war correspondent for UPI and Agence France-Presse. She earned a reputation for dogged and fearless reporting throughout the Vietnam War, and at one point she was held prisoner for weeks by North Vietnamese troops. After the war, she continued to report from global hotspots including Iraq during the Gulf War.\n\nBorn Catherine Merrial Webb in Christchurch, New Zealand, Webb moved to Canberra, Australia, with her family while she was still a child. Her father, Leicester Chisholm Webb, was professor of political science at the Australian National University, and her mother, Caroline Webb, was active in women's organisations. Both her parents were killed when Kate was 18.\n\nOn 30 March 1958, at age 15, Catherine Webb was charged with the murder of Victoria Fenner, the adopted daughter of Frank Fenner in Canberra. She supplied a rifle and bullets to Fenner and was present when Fenner shot herself. After a Children's Court hearing the charge was dropped.\n\nShe graduated from the University of Melbourne, then left to work for the \"Sydney Daily Mirror\". In 1967 she quit the paper and travelled to Vietnam to cover the escalating war. Webb was soon hired by UPI and earned a reputation as a hard-drinking, chain-smoking war correspondent: She was the first wire correspondent to reach the U.S. Embassy in Saigon during the Tet offensive. With the death of Phnom Penh bureau chief Frank Frosch in 1970, Webb was selected to fill his position—she later claimed it was because she spoke French. In 1971 she made news herself when she was captured by North Vietnamese troops operating in Cambodia. Premature official reports claimed that a body discovered was Webb's, and \"The New York Times\" published an obituary. She emerged from captivity 23 days after she was captured, after having endured forced marches, interrogations, and malaria. She described her experiences in a book, \"On the Other Side\", and in \"War Torn\", a collection of reminiscences by women correspondents in the Vietnam War.\n\nAfter her release from captivity and because of her sudden fame, UPI sent her to Washington DC as their show piece. Soon thereafter she threatened to resign if she did not get a \"real job\". She was reassigned to the Philippines as the UPI bureau chief in Manila.\n\nAfter the war, she continued to work as a foreign correspondent for UPI and Agence France-Presse (AFP). She served as a correspondent in Iraq during the Gulf War, in Indonesia as Timor-Leste gained independence, and in South Korea, where she was the first to report the death of Kim Il Song. She also reported from Afghanistan, and later described an incident in Kabul as the most frightening in her career. Following the collapse of Mohammad Najibullah's communist regime, she was captured by a local warlord and brought to a hotel, where she was brutally beaten and dragged up a flight of stairs by her hair. She finally escaped with the help of two fellow journalists, and hid out on a window ledge in the freezing Afghan winter, while the warlord and his men searched the building for her.\n\nWebb retired to the Hunter Region in 2001. She died of bowel cancer on 13 May 2007. AFP established the Kate Webb Journalism Award with a €3,000 to €5,000 prize, awarded annually to a correspondent or agency that best exemplified the spirit of Kate Webb. Webb was commemorated on an Australian postage stamp in 2017.\n\nShe is survived by a brother, Jeremy Webb, and a sister, Rachel Miller.\n\n"}
{"id": "17749103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17749103", "title": "Kauko Pirinen", "text": "Kauko Pirinen\n\nKauko Antero Pirinen (10 January 1915 in Eno – 31 May 1999 in Helsinki), was a Finnish historian, professor in church history at Helsinki University from 1961, and professor in general church history 1963–80. He was an Eastern Orthodox Christian.\n\nPirinen was one of the leading 20th-century historians in Finland and one of the country's excellent church historians. His specialty was Finland's medieval history, Savonian and Karelian history, and church law.\n\n"}
{"id": "1286180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1286180", "title": "Miguel Corte-Real", "text": "Miguel Corte-Real\n\nMiguel Corte-Real (; c. 1448 – 1502?) was a Portuguese explorer who charted about 600 miles of the coast of Labrador. In 1502, he disappeared while on an expedition and was believed to be lost at sea.\n\nMiguel Corte-Real was a son of João Vaz Corte-Real and a brother of explorer Gaspar Corte-Real, members of the Corte-Real family. Gaspar explored Greenland in 1499. He stayed there for several months with his team before icebergs forced them to return to Portugal.\n\nIn 1500, Gaspar set out again with Miguel. The Corte-Real brothers kidnapped and enslaved 57 First Nations people and charted about 600 km of coastline of what is now Labrador. Gaspar sent Miguel with two ships back to Portugal. Following this, Gaspar was never heard from again.\n\nIn May 1502, Miguel set out on an expedition to search for his brother, but he, too, disappeared, although two of the three ships returned to Portugal after they were separated. He is thought to have perished in a storm. The sole surviving brother, Vasco Anes Corte-Real, wanted to sail in search of his brothers, but the King of Portugal would not fund such an expedition.\n\nIn 1912 Edmund B. Delabarre wrote that markings on the Dighton Rock in Massachusetts suggest that Miguel Corte-Real reached New England. Delabarre stated that the markings were abbreviated Latin, and the message, translated into English, read as follows: \" I, Miguel Cortereal, 1511. In this place, by the will of God, I became a chief of the Indians\". Samuel Eliot Morison dismissed this evidence in his 1971 book \"The European Discovery of America: The Northern Voyages\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "914512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=914512", "title": "New Hollywood", "text": "New Hollywood\n\nNew Hollywood, sometimes referred to as the \"American New Wave\", or \"The Hollywood Renaissance\", refers to a movement in American film history from the late 1960s to the early 1980s, when a new generation of young filmmakers came to prominence in the United States.\nThey influenced the types of films produced, their production and marketing, and the way major studios approached film-making. In New Hollywood films, the film director, rather than the studio, took on a key authorial role. The definition of New Hollywood varies, depending on the author, with some of them defining it as a movement and others as a period. The span of the period is also a subject of debate, as well as its integrity, as some authors, such as Thomas Schatz, argue that the New Hollywood consist of several different movements. The films made in this movement are stylistically characterized in that their narrative often strongly deviated from classical norms.\n\nAfter the demise of the studio system and the rise of television, the commercial success of films was diminished. The \"New Hollywood\" period, spanning the late-1960s and early 1980s, was a period of revival.\n\nFilms of the early New Hollywood era are \"Bonnie and Clyde\", \"The Graduate\", \"Night of the Living Dead\", \"The Wild Bunch\" and \"Easy Rider\", while films including \"Heaven's Gate\" and \"One from the Heart\" mark the end of the era (despite the two maintaining a cult following years later). \n\nFollowing the Paramount Case (which ended block booking and ownership of theater chains by film studios) and the advent of television, both of which severely weakened the traditional studio system, Hollywood studios initially used spectacle to retain profitability. Technicolor developed a far more widespread use, while widescreen processes and technical improvements, such as CinemaScope, stereo sound and others, such as 3-D, were invented in order to retain the dwindling audience and compete with television. However, these were generally unsuccessful in increasing profits. By 1957 \"Life\" magazine called the 1950s \"the horrible decade\" for Hollywood.\n\nThe 1950s and early 1960s saw a Hollywood dominated by musicals, historical epics, and other films that benefited from the larger screens, wider framing and improved sound. Hence, as early as 1957, the era was dubbed a \"New Hollywood\". However, audience share continued to dwindle, and had reached alarmingly low levels by the mid-1960s. Several costly flops, including \"Tora! Tora! Tora!\", and \"Hello, Dolly!\", and failed attempts to replicate the success of \"The Sound of Music\", put great strain on the studios.\n\nBy the time the baby boomer generation was coming of age in the 1960s, 'Old Hollywood' was rapidly losing money; the studios were unsure how to react to the much changed audience demographics. The change in market during the period went from a middle aged high school educated audience in the mid 1960s, to a younger, more affluent, college-educated demographic: by the mid 1970s, 76% of all movie-goers were under 30, 64% of whom had gone to college.\nEuropean films, both arthouse and commercial (especially the Commedia all'italiana, the French New Wave, and the Spaghetti Western) and Japanese cinema were making a splash in United States — the huge market of disaffected youth seemed to find relevance and artistic meaning in movies like Michelangelo Antonioni's \"Blowup\", with its oblique narrative structure and full-frontal female nudity.\n\nThe desperation felt by studios during this period of economic downturn, and after the losses from expensive movie flops, led to innovation and risk-taking, allowing greater control by younger directors and producers. Therefore, in an attempt to capture that audience which found a connection to the \"art films\" of Europe, the studios hired a host of young filmmakers (many of whom were mentored by Roger Corman) and allowed them to make their films with relatively little studio control. This, together with the breakdown of the Production Code in 1966 and the new ratings system in 1968 (reflecting growing market segmentation) set the scene for New Hollywood.\n\nA defining film of the New Hollywood generation was \"Bonnie and Clyde\" (1967). Produced by and starring Warren Beatty and directed by Arthur Penn, its combination of graphic violence and humor, as well as its theme of glamorous disaffected youth, was a hit with audiences. The film won Academy Awards for Best Supporting Actress (Estelle Parsons) and Best Cinematography.\n\nWhen Jack L. Warner, then-CEO of Warner Bros., first saw a rough cut of \"Bonnie and Clyde\" in the summer of 1967, he hated it. Distribution executives at Warner Brothers agreed, giving the film a low-key premiere and limited release. Their strategy appeared justified when Bosley Crowther, middlebrow film critic at \"The New York Times\", gave the movie a scathing review. \"It is a cheap piece of bald-faced slapstick comedy,\" he wrote, \"that treats the hideous depredations of that sleazy, moronic pair as though they were as full of fun and frolic as the jazz-age cut-ups in \"Thoroughly Modern Millie\"...\" Other notices, including those from \"Time\" and \"Newsweek\" magazines, were equally dismissive.\n\nIts portrayal of violence and ambiguity in regard to moral values, and its startling ending, divided critics. Following one of the negative reviews, \"Time\" magazine received letters from fans of the movie, and according to journalist Peter Biskind, the impact of critic Pauline Kael in her positive review of the film (October 1967, \"New Yorker\") led other reviewers to follow her lead and re-evaluate the film (notably \"Newsweek\" and \"Time\"). Kael drew attention to the innocence of the characters in the film and the artistic merit of the contrast of that with the violence in the film: \"In a sense, it is the absence of sadism — it is the violence without sadism — that throws the audience off balance at \"Bonnie and Clyde\". The brutality that comes out of this innocence is far more shocking than the calculated brutalities of mean killers.\" Kael also noted the reaction of audiences to the violent climax of the movie, and the potential to empathise with the gang of criminals in terms of their naiveté and innocence reflecting a change in expectations of American cinema.\n\nThe cover story in \"Time\" magazine in December 1967, celebrated the movie and innovation in American New Wave cinema. This influential article by Stefan Kanfer claimed that \"Bonnie and Clyde\" represented a \"New Cinema\" through its blurred genre lines, and disregard for honoured aspects of plot and motivation, and that \"In both conception and execution, \"Bonnie and Clyde\" is a watershed picture, the kind that signals a new style, a new trend.\" Biskind states that this review and turnaround by some critics allowed the film to be re-released, thus proving its commercial success and reflecting the move to New Hollywood. The impact of this film is important in understanding the rest of the American New Wave, as well as the conditions that were necessary for it.\n\nThese initial successes paved the way for the studio to relinquish almost complete control to these innovative young filmmakers. In the mid-1970s, idiosyncratic, startling original films such as \"Paper Moon\", \"Dog Day Afternoon\", \"Chinatown\", and \"Taxi Driver\" among others, enjoyed enormous critical and commercial success. These successes by the members of New Hollywood led each of them in turn to make more and more extravagant demands, both on the studio and eventually on the audience.\n\nThis new generation of Hollywood filmmaker was most importantly, from the point of view of the studios, young, therefore able to reach the youth audience they were losing. This group of young filmmakers—actors, writers and directors—dubbed the \"New Hollywood\" by the press, briefly changed the business from the producer-driven Hollywood system of the past.\n\nTodd Berliner has written about the period's unusual narrative practices. The 1970s, Berliner says, marks Hollywood's most significant formal transformation since the conversion to sound film and is the defining period separating the storytelling modes of the studio era and contemporary Hollywood. New Hollywood films deviate from classical narrative norms more than Hollywood films from any other era or movement. Their narrative and stylistic devices threaten to derail an otherwise straightforward narration. Berliner argues that five principles govern the narrative strategies characteristic of Hollywood films of the 1970s:\n\nThomas Schatz points to another difference with the Hollywood Golden Age, which deals with the relationship of characters and plot. He argues that plot in classical Hollywood films (and some of the earlier New Hollywood films like \"The Godfather\") \"tended to emerge more organically as a function of the drives, desires, motivations, and goals of the central characters\". However, beginning with mid-1970s, he points to a trend that \"characters became plot functions\".\n\nDuring the height of the studio system, films were made almost exclusively on set in isolated studios. The content of films was limited by the Motion Picture Production Code, and though golden-age film-makers found loopholes in its rules, the discussion of more taboo content through film was effectively prevented. The shift towards a \"new realism\" was made possible when the Motion Picture Association of America film rating system was introduced and location shooting was becoming more viable.\n\nBecause of breakthroughs in film technology (e.g. the Panavision Panaflex camera, introduced in 1972), the New Hollywood filmmakers could shoot 35mm camera film in exteriors with relative ease. Since location shooting was cheaper (no sets need to be built) New Hollywood filmmakers rapidly developed the taste for location shooting, resulting in more naturalistic approach to filmmaking, especially when compared to the mostly stylized approach of classical Hollywood musicals and spectacles made to compete with television during the 1950s and early 1960s.\n\nHowever, in editing New Hollywood filmmakers adhered to realism more liberally than most of their classical Hollywood predecessors, often using editing for artistic purposes rather than for continuity alone, a practice inspired by European art films and classical Hollywood directors such as D. W. Griffith and Alfred Hitchcock. Films with unorthodox editing included \"Easy Rider\"'s use of editing to foreshadow the climax of the movie, as well as subtler uses, such as editing to reflect the feeling of frustration in \"Bonnie and Clyde\" and the subjectivity of the protagonist in \"The Graduate\".\n\nThe end of the production code enabled New Hollywood films to feature anti-establishment political themes, the use of rock music, and sexual freedom deemed \"counter-cultural\" by the studios. The youth movement of the 1960s turned anti-heroes like \"Bonnie and Clyde\" and \"Cool Hand Luke\" into pop culture idols, and Life magazine called the characters in \"Easy Rider\" \"part of the fundamental myth central to the counterculture of the late 1960s.\" \"Easy Rider\" also affected the way studios looked to reach the youth market. The success of \"Midnight Cowboy\", in spite of its X rating, was evidence for the interest in controversial themes at the time and also showed the weakness of the rating system and segmentation of the audience.\n\nFor Peter Biskind, the new wave was foreshadowed by \"Bonnie and Clyde\" and began in earnest with \"Easy Rider\". Biskind's book \"Easy Riders, Raging Bulls\" argues that the New Hollywood movement marked a significant shift towards independently produced and innovative works by a new wave of directors, but that this shift began to reverse itself when the commercial success of \"Jaws\" and \"Star Wars\" led to the realization by studios of the importance of blockbusters, advertising and control over production.\n\nWriting in 1968, critic Pauline Kael argued that the importance of \"The Graduate\" was in its social significance in relation to a new young audience, and the role of mass media, rather than any artistic aspects. Kael argued that college students identifying with \"The Graduate\" were not too different from audiences identifying with characters in dramas of the previous decade.\n\nJohn Belton points to the changing demographic to even younger, more conservative audiences in the mid 1970s (50% aged 12–20) and the move to less politically subversive themes in mainstream cinema.\n\nThomas Schatz sees the mid to late 1970s as the decline of the art cinema movement as a significant industry force with its peak in 1974–75 with \"Nashville\" and \"Chinatown\".\n\nGeoff King sees the period as an interim movement in American cinema where a conjunction of forces lead to a measure of freedom in filmmaking.\n\nTodd Berliner says that seventies cinema resists the efficiency and harmony that normally characterize classical Hollywood cinema and tests the limits of Hollywood's classical model.\n\nIn a \"Los Angeles Times\" article, film critic Manohla Dargis described it as the 'halcyon age' of the decade's filmmaking that \"was less revolution than business as usual, with rebel hype\". She also pointed out in her \"NY Times\" article about the era being \"the subject of so much popular adulation and academic scrutiny as to become a veritable fetish.\" while noting its enthusiasts insisting this was \"when American movies grew up (or at least starred underdressed actresses); when directors did what they wanted (or at least were transformed into brands); when creativity ruled (or at least ran gloriously amok, albeit often on the studio's dime).\"\n\nThe following is a chronological list of notable films that are generally considered to be \"New Hollywood\" productions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3852438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3852438", "title": "Old Price Riots", "text": "Old Price Riots\n\nThe Old Price Riots of 1809 (also sometimes referred to as the O.P. or OP riots) were caused by rising prices at the new Theatre at Covent Garden, London, after the previous one had been destroyed by fire. Covent Garden was one of two \"patent\" theatres in London in the nineteenth century, along with Drury Lane. When Drury Lane was burned down, Covent Garden became the premiere theatre in that time. The riots lasted three months, and ended with John Philip Kemble, the manager of the theatre, being forced to make a public apology. It was said that as many as 20 people died and many more wounded during this event.\n\nOn 20 September 1808, the original Covent Garden Theatre was destroyed by a fire along with most of the scenery, costumes and scripts. The damage was estimated at £250,000. However, a public subscription was introduced by the Duke of York, King George III and the Duke of Northumberland, which contributed £76,000.\nThe new theatre opened on 18 September 1809. The cost of constructing and furnishing the building, however, was so high that the management was forced to raise the prices from six shillings to seven for the boxes, from 3 shillings and sixpence to four shillings for the pit, and the third tier, usually reserved for the public, was converted into private boxes at a rent of £300 per year. The gallery price was unchanged but often referred to as \"pigeon holes\" since people inside could only see the legs of the performers.\n\nOn the opening night, riots broke out during a performance of \"Macbeth\" and continued throughout the play. At the end, the audience refused to leave so Kemble sent for the Bow Street police, but this only made the situation worse, and the rioters did not disperse until 2am. After the first night, the rioters only came in at half price time, and the inside of the theatre was covered with banners and slogans. Newspapers and journals reported frequently on the riots, citing as central to its continuation a perceived suppression of customary liberties and a lack of dialogue between the patrons and the management.\nAt one point, a coffin was carried in with the message \"Here lies the body of the new price, which died of the whooping cough on 23 September 1809, aged 6 days\". The riots were to last another 64 days. However, unlike earlier riots, little damage was done to the theatre and the whole affair was characterised by a \"spirit of fun\". The rioters even had a name for themselves: the OPs. The OPs stretched across class and cultural lines, ranging from businessmen to labourers, and pushed Kemble to lower the prices.\nKemble did so (and also issued an apology) and the situation returned to normal, until he tried to maintain half the number of private boxes at the start of the next season – the riots started again, forcing him to withdraw his plan.\n\nIn an attempt to quell the rioters Kemble hired the boxer Daniel Mendoza and his associates to contain them. This tactic misfired and resulted in increased violence, as shown in the contemporary caricature by Isaac Robert Cruikshank, \"Killing No Murder as Performing at the Grand National Theatre \". Mendoza can be seen at the centre, uttering the words \" 'Down down to H--l with all OPs & say twas Dan that sent thee there.' \" Mendoza, who had lost his championship in 1795 and was now in his mid forties, was already semi-retired; he had turned down a return match against Lee in 1807 saying that he was devoted only to teaching the sport. It seems that his participation in the OP Riots also lost him following with his supporters amongst the poorer folk of London, who now saw him fighting on behalf of the 'toffs'. Some of Mendoza's biographers therefore see the incident as a turning point in his popularity, although he still gave occasional demonstration bouts.\n\n\nThere had been previous riots in 1762 when the management of Covent Garden Theatre had threatened to raise seating prices.\n\n"}
{"id": "39833121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39833121", "title": "Oruç Bey", "text": "Oruç Bey\n\nOruç Bey was a 15th-century Ottoman historian.\n\nAlmost nothing is known from his personal life. Based on the information in the intro of his chronicle, it is believed that he was a clerk born in Edirne and that his father was a silk manufacturer.\n\nOruç Bey's work is called \"Oruç Bey Tarihi\" (\"The History of Oruç Bey\"), sometimes named similarly to other Ottoman chronicles \"Tevarih-i Al-i Osman\" (History of the house of Osman). It is written in Ottoman Turkish and describes the Ottoman history till Hegira 907 (anno1501/1502). His chronicle is considered as an important source for the history of the early Ottoman Empire.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51227864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51227864", "title": "Pre-Columbian rafts", "text": "Pre-Columbian rafts\n\nPre-Columbian rafts plied the Pacific Coast of South America for trade from about 100 BCE, and possibly much earlier. The 16th century descriptions by the Spanish of the rafts used by Native Americans along the seacoasts of Peru and Ecuador has incited speculation about the seamanship of the Indians, the seaworthiness of their rafts, and the possibility that they undertook long ocean-going voyages. None of the prehistoric rafts have survived and the exact characteristics of their construction and the geographical extent of their voyages are uncertain.\n\nIt is likely that traders using rafts, constructed of balsa wood logs, voyaged as far as Mexico and introduced metallurgy to the civilizations of that country. Some scholars and adventurers of the 20th and 21st century have asserted that the rafts and their crews journeyed thousands of miles across the Pacific to Polynesia, most notably Thor Heyerdahl who reached Polynesia on the Kon-Tiki raft. Several other people and groups have also built rafts based on prehistoric models and undertaken trans-Pacific voyages.\n\nBalsa is the Spanish word for raft. The use of rafts for commerce on the coasts of Peru and Ecuador, from northern Chile to southern Colombia, continued until the late 19th century, long after the Spanish conquest of the Inca Empire (1532 to 1572), although the fidelity of these rafts to their prehistoric ancestors is uncertain.\n\nIn 1526, a Spanish ship captained by Bartolome Ruiz ventured southward down the west coast of South America, the first Old World ship known to have explored this coastline. Off the coast of Ecuador, Ruiz encountered a Native American raft, being the first encounter between Spanish and Inca's vassals. A contemporary account of the encounter is:\n\nThe chronicler, Francisco de Xerez, said that the raft carried a cargo of \"silver objects, tiaras, crowns, bands, tweezers and bells, all of this they brought to exchange for some [sea] shells.\" Other contemporary chroniclers gave additional details about the rafts. \"They set a mast in the largest log in the middle, hoist and sail, and navigate all along this coast. They are very safe vessels because they cannot sink or capsize, since the water washes through them.\"\n\nBalsa logs. Logs from the balsa tree (\"Ochroma lagopus\") are distinguished by their light weight and large size (up to in diameter). A tree of the tropical forest, the balsa tree did not naturally occur on the arid coasts of Peru and southern Ecuador. The source of balsa logs for rafts was the valley of the Guayas River, north of the city of Guayaquil, Ecuador. This area is still the principal source of balsa wood for international trade.\n\nThe long term buoyancy of balsa logs has been called into question. Prior to the voyage across the Pacific Ocean of the Kon-Tiki in 1947, scholars often argued that balsa logs absorb water so quickly that long voyages were infeasible. Heyerdahl, however, used green balsa wood logs for a voyage of 101 days on the Kon-Tiki. Other studies have also indicated that dry balsa logs can remain afloat for extended periods of time.\n\nRafts were always constructed of an odd number of balsa logs, usually numbering 3 to 11, with the center log being the longest and the others tapering down in length. The Spanish said the rafts were in the shape of the extended fingers of a hand. The large balsa logs, lashed together with henequen fiber, formed the main deck of a raft. Seawater passed freely between and over the logs making it very difficult for rafts to be swamped by heavy seas.\n\nAtop the large balsa logs was a platform or multiple platforms, constructed of cane or bamboo which kept the cargo and passengers dry. During historic (and probably pre-historic) times the platform might include a hut to shelter the passengers and crew and a fire pit for cooking.\n\nSails and masts The use of sails on pre-Columbian rafts has been disputed by a few scholars who have speculated that the Spaniards introduced the use of sails or that the technology for using sails derived from the Spanish but was adopted by the Indians before the physical arrival of the Spanish on the Ecuadorian coast. However, the chronicler of Ruiz's voyage in 1526 is clear that the raft he saw used sails and this voyage was only 13 years after the first known Spanish sighting of the Pacific Ocean in Panama, more than north. Another contemporary author said that sails had been used on rafts \"since time immemorial.\"\n\nThere is also controversy whether the sails used were square or lateen (triangular). Although square sails were later used, the earliest accounts describe triangular sails, probably two in number, fore and aft rigged with two masts. Engineering and stress studies indicate that the masts were curved and no longer than and about in diameter. They may have been composed of two pieces of wood joined together. The wood used is unknown although modern reproductions have used mangrove wood, the mangrove being common along the Ecuadorian coast and the northern Peruvian coast of Piura and Tumbes.\n\nNavigation. Pre-Columbian rafts were steered by a combination of adjusting the sails and the use of centerboards, called \"guaras.\" These were boards typically about wide inserted vertically into the sea between the balsa logs. On larger rafts there were three sets of the guaras at the front, back, and the middle of the raft. Raising, lowering, or removing some of the guaras or moving them toward the bow or stern reduced or increased sub-surface tension and made it possible to steer the raft. Working in tandem with the sails, the guaras, according to an 1820 report, permitted the crew to undertake \"all the maneuvers of a regularly built and well-rigged [sailing] vessel.\" The rafts could achieve a speed of 4 to 5 knots.\n\nSize and cargo capacity. An engineering study concluded that ocean going rafts ranged in size from to long and had a cargo capacity of 10 to 30 tons. The cargo capacity of the rafts declined as the balsa logs absorbed sea water. After 4 months in the water the capacity of the largest rafts declined to 10 tons and after 8 months to 5 tons. Thus, a little more than 8 months in the water was the useful life of the rafts.\n\nThe antiquity of the use of sea-going rafts by the people of the Ecuadorian and Peruvian coasts has not been established as ancient balsa wood rafts have left few archaeological traces, but it appears that a maritime trading system from southern Colombia to northern Chile was established by about 100 BCE. The maritime trade had two centers: the northern coast of Ecuador and Chincha about south of present-day Lima, Peru.\n\nThe sudden adoption of metallurgy in the civilizations of Mexico about 800 CE has led archaeologists to conclude that the technology was introduced, most likely by sea-going rafts, from the Ecuadorian coast of South America where metallurgy had been practiced for hundreds of years. Later advances in metallurgy in Mexico after 1200 CE resembled the metallurgy of the Chincha in Peru.\n\nScholars have calculated that a one-way trip from Ecuador to Mexico would have taken six to eight weeks, sailing at an average of 4 knots for 12 hours each day. To enjoy the best weather, traders would most likely leave Ecuador in early December and arrive in Mexico in late January. They would set off on the return in early March and arrive in Ecuador in early May. A raft could make two round trips before becoming waterlogged. Some sailors would remain longer in Mexico. One account from Spanish sources dated 1525 says that \"Indians from certain islands in the south...brought exquisite products which they would trade for local products and ...stay for five or six months until good weather occurred.\" It was during these trade voyages that South American sailors may have introduced metallurgy to Mexico.\n\nThe purported trade between Ecuador and Mexico consisted of luxury items, including Spondylus (spiny oyster) and Strombus (conch) shells, which were prominently traded from their origins in the warm ocean waters of Ecuador throughout the Andes and up and down the coasts of South America.\n\nSince the voyage of the Kon-Tiki in 1947, there have been numerous crossings of the Pacific Ocean by raft from South America to Polynesia. In the 1990s, four attempts to sail a raft from Ecuador to Mexico failed, although one attempt reached Costa Rica. The various voyages have demonstrated the seaworthiness of prehistoric rafts and, in the words of an early Spaniard, that the Indians who sailed them were \"great mariners.\" The Spanish colonists in Peru and Ecuador from the 16th to the 19th centuries relied on the Indians of the Peruvian and Ecuadorian coasts and their rafts for coastal trade.\n\n"}
{"id": "2099307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2099307", "title": "Proto-Elamite", "text": "Proto-Elamite\n\nThe Proto-Elamite period is the time from ca. 3400 BC to 2500 BC. In archaeological terms this corresponds to the late Banesh period, and it is recognized as the oldest civilization in Iran.\n\nThe Proto-Elamite script is an Early Bronze Age writing system briefly in use before the introduction of Elamite cuneiform.\n\nDuring the period 8000–3700 BC, the Fertile Crescent witnessed the spread of small settlements supported by agricultural surplus. Geometric tokens emerged to be used to manage stewardship of this surplus. The earliest tokens now known are those from two sites in the Zagros region of Iran: Tepe Asiab and Ganj-i-Dareh Tepe.\n\nThe Mesopotamian civilization emerged during the period 3700–2900 BC amid the development of technological innovations such as the plough, sailing boats and copper metal working. Clay tablets with pictographic characters appeared in this period to record commercial transactions performed by the temples.\nThe most important Proto-Elamite sites are Susa and Anshan. Another important site is Tepe Sialk, where the only remaining Proto-Elamite ziggurat is still seen. Texts in the undeciphered Proto-Elamite script found in Susa are dated to this period. It is thought that the Proto-Elamites were in fact Elamites (Elamite speakers), because of the many cultural similarities (for example, the building of ziggurats), and because no large-scale migration to this area seems to have occurred between the Proto-Elamite period and the later Elamites. But because their script is yet to be deciphered, this theory remains uncertain.\n\nSome anthropologists, such as John Alden, maintain that Proto-Elamite influence grew rapidly at the end of the 4th millennium BC and declined equally rapidly with the establishment of maritime trade in the Persian Gulf several centuries later.\n\nProto-Elamite pottery dating back to the last half of the 5th millennium BC has been found in Tepe Sialk, where Proto-Elamite writing, the first form of writing in Iran, has been found on tablets of this date. The first cylinder seals come from the Proto-Elamite period, as well.\n\nIt is uncertain whether the Proto-Elamite script was the direct predecessor of Linear Elamite. Both scripts remain largely undeciphered, and it is mere speculation to postulate a relationship between the two.\n\nA few Proto-Elamite signs seem either to be loans from the slightly older proto-cuneiform (Late Uruk) tablets of Mesopotamia, or perhaps more likely, to share a common origin. Whereas proto-cuneiform is written in visual hierarchies, Proto-Elamite is written in an in-line style: numerical signs follow the objects they count; some non-numerical signs are 'images' of the objects they represent, although the majority are entirely abstract.\n\nProto-Elamite was used for a brief period around 3000 BC (Jemdet Nasr period in Mesopotamia), whereas Linear Elamite is attested for a similarly brief period in the last quarter of the 3rd millennium BC.\n\nProponents of an Elamo-Dravidian relationship have looked for similarities between the Proto-Elamite script and the Indus script.\n\nThe Proto-Elamite writing system was used over a very large geographical area, stretching from Susa in the west, to Tepe Yahya in the east, and perhaps beyond. The known corpus of inscriptions consists of some 1600 tablets, the vast majority unearthed at Susa.\n\nProto-Elamite tablets have been found at the following sites (in order of number of tablets recovered):\n\nNone of the inscribed objects from Ghazir, Chogha Mish or Hissar can be verified as Proto-Elamite; the tablets from Ghazir and Choga Mish are Uruk IV style or numerical tablets, whereas the Hissar object cannot be classified at present. The majority of the Tepe Sialk tablets are also not proto-Elamite, strictly speaking, but belong to the period of close contact between Mesopotamia and Iran, presumably corresponding to Uruk V - IV.\n\nAlthough Proto-Elamite remains undeciphered, the content of many texts is known. This is possible because certain signs, and in particular a majority of the numerical signs, are similar to the neighboring Mesopotamian writing system, proto-cuneiform. In addition, a number of the proto-Elamite signs are actual images of the objects they represent. However, the majority of the proto-Elamite signs are entirely abstract, and their meanings can only be deciphered through careful graphotactical analysis.\n\nWhile the Elamite language has been suggested as a likely candidate underlying the Proto-Elamite inscriptions, there is no positive evidence of this. The earliest Proto-Elamite inscriptions, being purely ideographical, do not in fact contain any linguistic information, and following Friberg's 1978/79 study of Ancient Near Eastern metrology, decipherment attempts have moved away from linguistic methods.\n\nIn 2012, Dr Jacob Dahl of the Faculty of Oriental Studies, University of Oxford, announced a project to make high-quality images of Proto-Elamite clay tablets and publish them online. His hope is that crowdsourcing by academics and amateurs working together would be able to understand the script, despite the presence of mistakes and the lack of phonetic clues. Dahl assisted in making the images of nearly 1600 Proto-Elamite tablets online.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4416668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4416668", "title": "Richard Carwardine", "text": "Richard Carwardine\n\nRichard John Carwardine, FRHistS, FBA, FLSW (born 12 January 1947) is a Welsh historian and academic. He specialises in American Politics and religion in the era of the American Civil War, he is best known for his work on Abraham Lincoln. He was President of Corpus Christi College, Oxford from 2010 to 2016.\n\nCarwardine was born in Cardiff, Wales, the son of John Francis Carwardine and Beryl Jones. He attended Maesycwmmer Primary School and Monmouth School. At Corpus Christi College, Oxford, as William Jones Exhibitioner, he received his B.A. in Modern History 1968 (M.A. 1972). He studied for his D.Phil. in Modern History at the Queen's College, Oxford, and the University of California, Berkeley, as the Ochs-Oakes Senior Scholar in American History and Institutions.\n\nCarwardine taught American history at the University of Sheffield (1971-2002) where he also served as Dean of the Faculty of Arts. He was Rhodes Professor of American History & Institutions at Oxford University and a Fellow of St Catherine's College from 2002 to 2009. Elected President of Corpus Christi College, he assumed office in January 2010. He is also a Pro-Vice-Chancellor of the University.\n\n\nCarwardine is a co-founder of the Abbey Shakespeare Players. The company present a Shakespeare play every summer at St. Dogmaels Abbey in Pembrokeshire.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36964579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36964579", "title": "Risto Kovačić", "text": "Risto Kovačić\n\nHristifor \"Risto\" Kovačić (Risan, 22 May 1845 – Risan, 22 April 1909) was historian and teacher. Kovačić's most important writings were on Serbian antiquities. There is much that is striking and original in his history of Serbs in Italy (\"Gli Slavi Serbi dell' Italia\", 1885). H\n\nKovačić was baptised Hristifor (hence \"Risto\") in Risan in the tradition of his ancestral Herzegovinian adherents of the Serbian Orthodox Church. His patron saint was St. John the Baptist. After completing his high school education in Kotor, Dubrovnik and Zadar, he studied philosophy in Zagreb and Vienna. Upon graduation, he became a professor at a gymnasium in Kotor and at a Serbian Naval School in Herceg Novi, from 1867 until 1871 and again from 1880 to 1881. In 1883 he moved to Rome where he taught Slavistics until the end of his life.\n\nHe visited Molise in 1884 and wrote a report to Serbian Learned Society about Serbian settlements. In his report, published in 1885, he emphasized that there were nine Serbian settlements of as many as 16,000 people. In three settlements about 4,000 people still spoke Serbian language and kept tradition of badnjak as their legacy.\n\nThe writings of both Risto Kovačić and Graziadio Isaia Ascoli concour with writer Giovanni de Rubertis who considered the Schiavoni (Slavs) or Dalmati (Dalmatians) of Molise in Italy to be the Serbs that were brought there by Skanderbeg during his Italian expedition in 1460—1462 along with the Albanians who settled in Calabria.\n\nHis essays are rich in suggestiveness, and have been the starting-point of much fruitful research. He was a member of Serbian Learned Society since 30 January 1883.\n\nHe died at Risan on 22 April 1909.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "843499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=843499", "title": "Salvador de Madariaga", "text": "Salvador de Madariaga\n\nSalvador de Madariaga y Rojo (23 July 1886 – 14 December 1978) was a Spanish diplomat, writer, historian and pacifist. He was nominated for the Nobel Prize in Literature, and the Nobel Peace Prize.\n\nDe Madariaga graduated with a degree in engineering in Paris, France. He then went to work as an engineer for the Northern Spanish Railway Company but abandoned this work to return to London and become a journalist, writing in English, for \"The Times\". At this time he began publishing his first essays. In 1921 he became a press member of the Secretariat of the League of Nations and became chief of the Disarmament Section in 1922. In 1928, he became Professor of Spanish at Oxford University for three years, during which time he wrote a book on nation psychology called \"Englishmen, Frenchmen, Spaniards\".\n\nIn 1931 he was appointed ambassador to the United States of America and a permanent delegate to the League of Nations, a post he kept for 5 years; chairing the Council of the League of Nations in January 1932, he condemned Japanese aggression in Manchuria in such vehement terms that he was nicknamed \"Don Quijote de la Manchuria\". Between 1932 and 1934 he was Ambassador to France. In 1933 he was elected to the National Congress, serving as both Minister for Education and Minister for Justice. In July 1936, as a classic liberal he went into exile in England to escape the eruption of the Spanish civil war. From there he became a vocal opponent of, and organised resistance to, the Nationales and the Spanish State of Francisco Franco. In 1947, he was one of the principal authors of the Oxford Manifesto on liberalism. He participated in the Hague Congress in 1948 as president of the Cultural Commission and he was one of the co-founders, in 1949, of the College of Europe.\n\nIn his writing career he wrote books and essays about \"Don Quixote\", Christopher Columbus, Shakespeare's \"Hamlet\", and the history of Latin America. He militated in favour of a united and integrated Europe. He wrote in French and German as well as Spanish and Galician (his mother tongue) and English. In 1973 he won the Karlspreis for contributions to the European idea and European peace. In 1976, he returned to Spain after the death of Francisco Franco. The Madariaga European Foundation has been named after him, promoting his vision of a united Europe making for a more peaceful world. The 1979–1980 academic year at the College of Europe was named in his honour.\n\nIn 1912 he married Constance Archibald, a Scottish economic historian. The couple had two daughters, Nieves Mathews (1917–2003) and professor/historian Dr. Isabel de Madariaga (1919–2014). Constance died in May 1970, and in November de Maderiaga married Emilia Székely de Rauman who had been his secretary since 1938. She died in 1991, aged 83.\n\nAn Oxfordshire blue plaque in honour of Salvador de Madariaga was unveiled at 3 St Andrew's Road, Headington, Oxford by his daughter Isabel on 15 October 2011.\n\n'This Europe must be born. And she will, when Spaniards say 'our Chartres', Englishmen say 'our Cracow', Italians 'our Copenhagen' and Germans 'our Bruges'. Then Europe will live.'--Madariaga\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47009405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47009405", "title": "Sergei Chuyev", "text": "Sergei Chuyev\n\nSergei Chuev (; born 1971 in Moscow) is a Russian historian specializing in World War II.\n\nIn 1996 he graduated from the Moscow State Institute of Culture in the specialty \"Bibliography and Library Science\", in 2001 - University of the Russian Academy of Education() majoring in \"Civil Law. Jurisprudence\". From 1993 to 2003 he served in the Federal Customs Service of Russia. Major of the Customs Service (retired).\nAuthor of six books(сo-author of two of them) including \"Special forces of the Third Reich\" in two volumes (), devoted to activities of Nazi German Abwehr intelligence against the USSR. Second volume describes history of the Reich Main Security Office(RSHA) in German-occupied territories including system of camps and the training of collaborationist Russian Liberation Army. The book details the recruitment from among the Soviet citizens, and the formation of parallel Kaminski Brigade (RONA), as well as the 14th SS-Volunteer Division \"Galician\", Belarusian auxiliary battalions, the Turkestan Legion, and pro-Nazi sabotage units as well as police.\n\nIn his book published in 2006, titled , Chuev described the treacherous work of Ukrainian nationalists against the Russian Empire. The first evidence of the genocide of the Russian people in Galicia and the planned destruction of all Russian in Western Ukraine in the first decades of the 20th century are presented. \nA special place in the book is given to the history of Ukrainian collaboration with Nazi Germany including war crimes committed by the Ukrainian nationalists against the Russians in Western Ukraine. Special focus was given to the Ukrainian Insurgent Army (UPA) along with the 14th Waffen Grenadier Division of the SS (1st Galician) and the Ukrainian National Army active in the Soviet Union. Chuyev relied on documents stored in the KGB archives including German administration correspondence, testimonies of participants, and rare photography.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41411286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41411286", "title": "Svetislav Mandić", "text": "Svetislav Mandić\n\nSvetislav Mandić (; March 8, 1921 – October 4, 2003) was a Yugoslav and Serbian historian, copier, fresco conserver, poet and painter.\n\nHe was born on March 8, 1921, in Mostar, Kingdom of Yugoslavia (now Bosnia and Herzegovina). He finished the gymnasium in his town in 1939, and then finished the Academy of Fine Arts in capital Belgrade in 1950. He started with poetry in his gymnasium days, and as a student published poems in various papers and newspapers. In his adult years he began his work on cultural monuments of the history of the Serbs and he published many works on that theme, due to which he was awarded the Order of St. Sava class I.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37035568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37035568", "title": "Taganrog military museum", "text": "Taganrog military museum\n\nTaganrog military museum is the first private museum in Taganrog.\n\nThe start of museum exhibition creation refers to May 9, 2004, when the club Auto-Retro Taganrog was founded. Subsequently, several vehicle units were purchased and repaired. In 2008, club activity concept got military direction. On May 6, 2010, permanent exhibition consisting of several thousands of exhibits was opened. In July 2012, the name Taganrog military museum got official status.\n\nIn the night of October 25. 2014 the building of the Taganrog Military Museum and all of its exhibits were completely destroyed by fire.\n\nUnder the museum was formed military historical club participating in historical reenactments in Rostov-on-Don, Voronezh, Volgograd, Novocherkassk, Kiev, Odessa, Brest, Berlin and other cities.\n\n\n\nAmmunition mockups, cold weapons, military uniform, documents, household goods and other relics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1183387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1183387", "title": "Tarombo", "text": "Tarombo\n\nTarombo is a term for 'genealogy' in Batak culture/language. The Batak believe that they all come from the same ancestor: Siraja Batak, the Batak Patriarch. They kept the genealogy line tracing back to this ancestor, called Tarombo Batak. Its origins however have been clouded with legends.\n"}
{"id": "23421828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23421828", "title": "Technological revolution", "text": "Technological revolution\n\nA technological revolution is a period in which one or more technologies is replaced by another technology in a short amount of time. It is an era of accelerated technological progress characterized by new innovations whose rapid application and diffusion cause an abrupt change in society.\n\nA technological revolution is made of interconnected technological changes. \n\nA technological revolution increases productivity and efficiency. It may involve material or ideological changes caused by the introduction of a device or system. Some examples of its potential impact are business management, education, social interactions, finance and research methodology; it is not limited strictly to technical aspects. Technological revolution rewrites the material conditions of human existence and can reshape culture. It can play a role of a trigger of a chain of various and unpredictable changes:\n\nWhat distinguishes a technological revolution from a random collection of technology systems and justifies conceptualizing it as a revolution are two basic features:\n\n1. The strong interconnectedness and interdependence of the participating systems in their technologies and markets.\n\n2. The capacity to transform profoundly the rest of the economy (and eventually society).\n\nThe consequences of a technological revolution are not necessarily positive. For example, innovations, such as the use of coal as an energy source, can have negative environmental impact and cause technological unemployment. The concept of technological revolution is based on the idea that technological progress is not linear but undulatory. Technological revolution can be:\n\n\nThe concept of universal technological revolutions is a key factor in the Neo-Schumpeterian theory of long economic waves/cycles (Carlota Perez, Tessaleno Devezas, Daniel Šmihula and others).\n\nThe most known example of technological revolution was the Industrial Revolution in the 19th century, the scientific-technical revolution about 1950–1960, the Neolithic revolution, the Digital revolution and so on. The notion of \"technological revolution\" is frequently overused, therefore it is not easy to define which technological revolutions having occurred during world history were really crucial and influenced not only one segment of human activity, but had a universal impact. One universal technological revolution should be composed from several sectoral technological revolutions (in science, industry, transport and the like).\n\nWe can identify several universal technological revolutions which occurred during the modern era in Western culture:\n\nAttempts to find comparable periods of well defined technological revolutions in the pre-modern era are highly speculative. Probably one of the most systematic attempts to suggest a timeline of technological revolutions in pre-modern Europe was done by Daniel Šmihula: \n\nAfter 2000 there became popular the idea that a sequence of technological revolutions is not over and in the forthcoming future we will witness the dawn of a new universal technological revolution. The main innovations should develop in the fields of nanotechnologies, alternative fuel and energy systems, biotechnologies, genetic engineering, new materials technologies and so on .\n\nSometimes the notion of \"technological revolution\" is used for the Second Industrial Revolution in the period about 1900, but in this case the designation \"technical revolution\" would be more proper. When the notion of technical revolution is used in more general meaning it is almost identical with technological revolution, but technological revolution requires material changes in used tools, machines, energy sources, production processes. Technical revolution can be restricted to changes in management, organisation and so called non-material technologies (e.g. a progress in mathematics or accounting).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6699273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6699273", "title": "The Maiden Tribute of Modern Babylon", "text": "The Maiden Tribute of Modern Babylon\n\n\"The Maiden Tribute of Modern Babylon\" was a series of highly controversial newspaper articles on child prostitution that appeared in \"The Pall Mall Gazette\" in July 1885.\n\nWritten by crusading editor W. T. Stead, the series was a \"tour de force\" of Victorian journalism. With sensational crossheads, such as \"The Violation of Virgins\" and \"Strapping Girls Down\", the \"Maiden Tribute\" threw respectable Victorians into a state of moral panic, and achieved, as a consequence, the implementation of the Criminal Law Amendment Act of 1885, which raised the age of consent for girls from 13 to 16, and also re-criminalised homosexual acts.\n\nThe first instalment took up six pages. Stead attacked vice with eye-catching subheadings: \"The Violation of Virgins\", \"The Confessions of a Brothel-Keeper\", \"How Girls Were Bought and Ruined\". He argued that while consensual adult behaviour was a matter of private morality and not a law enforcement issue, issues rife in London existed that did require legislative prohibition, listing five main areas where the law should intervene:\n\n\nThe theme of \"Maiden Tribute\" was child prostitution, the abduction, procurement and sale of young English virgins to Continental \"pleasure palaces\". Stead took his readers to the labyrinthine streets of London (intentionally recalling the Greek myth) to its darker side, exposing the flesh trade while exposing the corruption of those officials who not only turned a blind eye but also condoned such abuse. In particular, he drew a distinction between sexual \"immorality\" and sexual \"criminality\", and criticized those members of Parliament who were responsible for the Bill's impending \"extinction in the House of Commons\" and hinted that they might have personal reasons to block any changes in the law.\n\nDescribing himself as an \"investigator\" rather than an \"informer\", Stead stated that he would disclose actual names and identifying details only to the two UK Archbishops, one MP, two members of the House of Lords active in criminal legislation or child protection, and a past director of the CID.\n\nThe disclosure proper began in the July 6 publication, in which Stead reveals that he had asked if genuine maiden virgins could be procured, and being told it was so, asked whether such girls were willing and consensual, or aware of the intentions planned for them:\n\nStead commented that \"Children of twelve and thirteen cannot offer any serious resistance. They only dimly comprehend what it all means. Their mothers sometimes consent to their seduction for the sake of the price paid by their seducer. The child goes to the introducing house as a sheep to the shambles. Once there, she is compelled to go through with it. No matter how brutal the man may be, she cannot escape\". A madam confirmed the story for him, stating of one girl that she was rendered unconscious beforehand, and then coercively given the choice to continue or be homeless afterwards:\n\nStead quoted a former brothel-keeper who confirmed the nature of the trade:\n\nThe 'Tribute' series is an example of 'Government by Journalism', since it led to the passage of the Criminal Law Amendment Act 1885, also known as the 'Stead Act' or 'Stead's Act'.\n\nFrom its inception, one of the goals of the series was to influence public policy. W. T. Stead wrote of the connection between the 'Tribute' series and his 'Government by Journalism' in his publication The Review of Reviews: \"The Pall Mall Gazette, however, held its hand. Its object being to pass a new law, and not to pillory individuals, there was no need to mention names.\"\n\nStead and several of his accomplices were later brought to trial as a result of the unlawful investigative methods they used (see the Eliza Armstrong Case) and Stead himself served three months in prison. Stead's reports were an early but potent example of a 'new journalism' which was not afraid of creating a 'news-event' rather than just plain reporting. According to Roland Pearsall, \"it was the death knell of responsible journalism\".\n\nStead's account was widely translated and the revelation of \"padded rooms for the purpose of stifling the cries of the tortured victims of lust and brutality\" and the symbolic figure of \"The Minotaur of London\" confirmed European observers' worst imaginings about \"Le Sadisme anglais\" and inspired erotic writers to write of similar scenes set in London or involving sadistic English gentlemen. Such writers include D'Annunzio in \"Il Piacere\", Paul-Jean Toulet in \"Monsieur de Paur\" (1898), Octave Mirbeau in \"Jardin des Supplices\" (1899) and Jean Lorrain in \"Monsieur de Phocas\" (1901).\n\nThe title evokes the Greek myth of the Minotaur's virgins tribute.\n\n"}
{"id": "28138785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28138785", "title": "Ticelia", "text": "Ticelia\n\nTicelia was a supposed city and diocese, in Cyrenaica. The article by Siméon Vailhé in the 1912 \"Catholic Encyclopedia\" expressed perplexity about its identity or existence. The supposed bishopric is not accepted into the Catholic Church's list of titular sees.\n"}
{"id": "24706296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24706296", "title": "Tim Greve", "text": "Tim Greve\n\nTim Greve (20 February 1928 – 27 April 1986) was a Norwegian historian, biographer, civil servant, diplomat and newspaper editor.\n\nGreve was born in Bergen as the son of consul Arent Wittendorph Greve (1892–1950) and Anna Gade (1900–1977). His brother Egil Gade Greve was a notable businessman, and Tim Greve was also a distant descendant of Arent Jansen Greve. In 1954 he married jurist Marit Nansen, daughter of architect Odd Nansen and granddaughter of Eva and Fridtjof Nansen. They resided at Fornebu in Bærum, incidentally in the road \"Fridtjof Nansens vei\".\n\nGreve attended the Nansen Academy, and then studied history at the University of Oslo, graduating in 1952. He was attached to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from 1951 to 1974. He served as Norwegian delegate to NATO and to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), and was later secretary for the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Halvard Lange. Holding office from 1956 to 1960, he was the first political secretary (today known as political advisor) in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. He was two years at the Norwegian embassy in Bonn, and later served as Secretary for the Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Parliament of Norway. He then returned to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as assistant secretary from 1966 to 1967 and deputy under-secretary of state from 1967 to 1974. He served as Director for the Norwegian Nobel Institute from 1974 to 1977 and Secretary for the Norwegian Nobel Committee.\n\nHe was chief editor for the newspaper \"Verdens Gang\" from 1978 to 1986. In 1978, two long-serving co-editors Oskar Hasselknippe and Vegard Sletten resigned, but Greve had Andreas Norland as a co-editor. During Greve's period as editor-in-chief \"Verdens Gang\" became the largest newspaper in Norway, surpassing \"Aftenposten\" in 1981. Reportedly, Greve was not genuinely content with this development. He viewed sensationalist journalism, which reached the front page of \"Verdens Gang\" now and then, with dismay. From 1982 he chaired the Broadcasting Council. He was succeeded by Helge Seip on 1 January 1986.\n\nGreve wrote several books. His biography of his wife's grandfather, polar explorer and Nobel Peace Prize laureate Fridtjof Nansen, was published in two volumes in 1973 and 1974. His wrote two volumes on World War II in Bergen, \"Bergen i krig I-II\" (1978–1979), and a book on espionage in Norway prior to the war, \"Spionjakt i Norge\" (1982). From 1982 to his death he was the deputy board chairman of the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute.\n\nGreve was decorated Knight, First Class of the Royal Norwegian Order of St. Olav in 1968 as well as Commander, First Class of the Danish Order of the Dannebrog. He also received the \"Bundesverdienstkreuz\" from West Germany. He died in April 1986 in Oslo, from cancer.\n\n"}
{"id": "6094381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6094381", "title": "Timeline of Argentine history", "text": "Timeline of Argentine history\n\nThis is a timeline of Argentine history, comprising important legal and territorial changes and political events in Argentina and its predecessor states. To read about the background to these events, see History of Argentina. See also the list of Presidents of Argentina.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6249", "title": "Timeline of computing", "text": "Timeline of computing\n\nTimeline of computing presents events in the history of computing organized by year and grouped into six topic areas: predictions and concepts, first use and inventions, hardware systems and processors, operating systems, programming languages, and new application areas.\n\nDetailed computing timelines: before 1950, 1950–1979, 1980–1989, 1990–1999, 2000-2009, 2010-\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21878681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21878681", "title": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 378", "text": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 378\n\nUnited Nations Security Council Resolution 378, adopted on October 23, 1975, considered a report by the Secretary General and noted the developments in the situation in the Middle East. The Secretary General viewed any relaxation in the search for peace at that time to be especially dangerous and urged for a resolution to the situation, namely through the adaption of the plan laid out in resolution 338. \n\nWith that in mind, the Council called for all the parties concerned to immediately implement resolution 338, they renewed the mandate of the United Nations Emergency Force for another year until October 24, 1976, and requested the Secretary-General submit another report on the situation at the end of that year. The Council also expressed its confidence that the force would be maintained with \"maximum efficiency and economy\".\n\nThe resolution was adopted by 13 votes; China and Iraq did not participate in the vote.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21988179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21988179", "title": "Univocity of being", "text": "Univocity of being\n\nUnivocity of being is the idea that words describing the properties of God mean the same thing as when they apply to people or things, even if God is vastly different in kind. It is associated with the doctrines of the Scholastic theologian John Duns Scotus.\n\nIn medieval disputes over the nature of God, many theologians and philosophers (such as Thomas Aquinas) held that when one says that \"God is good\" and that \"man is good\", man's goodness is only analogous to, i.e. similar to but distinct from, God's goodness. John Duns Scotus, while not denying the analogy of being a la St. Thomas, nonetheless holds to a univocal \"concept\" of being. It is important to note that Scotus does not believe in a “univocity of being”, but rather to a common concept of being that is proper to both God and man, though in two radically distinct modes: infinite in God, finite in man.cf. John Duns Scotus, 1265-1965 p. 250-262\n\nGilles Deleuze borrowed the doctrine of \"ontological univocity\" from Scotus. He claimed that being is univocal, i.e., that all of its senses are affirmed in one voice. Deleuze adapts the doctrine of univocity to claim that being is, univocally, difference. \"With univocity, however, it is not the differences which are and must be: it is being which is Difference, in the sense that it is said of difference. Moreover, it is not we who are univocal in a Being which is not; it is we and our individuality which remains equivocal in and for a univocal Being.\" \nDeleuze at once echoes and inverts Spinoza, who maintained that everything that exists is a modification of the one substance, God or Nature. He claims that it is the organizing principle of Spinoza's philosophy, despite the absence of the term from any of Spinoza's works. For Deleuze, there is no one substance, only an always-differentiating process, an origami cosmos, always folding, unfolding, refolding. Deleuze and Guattari summarize this ontology in the paradoxical formula \"pluralism = monism\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3372879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3372879", "title": "Uprising of Asen and Peter", "text": "Uprising of Asen and Peter\n\nThe Uprising of Asen and Peter () was a revolt of Bulgarians and Vlachs living in the theme of Paristrion of the Byzantine Empire, caused by a tax increase. It began on 26 October 1185, the feast day of St. Demetrius of Thessaloniki, and ended with the creation of the Second Bulgarian Empire, ruled by the Asen dynasty.\n\nIsaac II Angelus, in order to raise money for his wedding with the daughter of King Béla III of Hungary, levied a new tax which fell heavily on the population of the Haemus Mountains. They sent two leaders (Peter and Asen) to negotiate with the emperor at Kypsella (now İpsala) in Thrace. They asked to be added to the roll of the Byzantine army and to be granted land near Haemus to provide the monetary income needed to pay the tax. This was refused, and Peter and Asen were treated roughly. Their response was to threaten revolt.\n\nAfter their return, many of the protesters were unwilling to join the rebellion. The brothers Peter and Asen built the Church of St Demetrius of Thessaloniki in Tarnovo, dedicated to Saint Demetrius, who was traditionally considered a patron of the Byzantine city of Thessaloniki, and claimed that the Saint had ceased to favour the Byzantines: \"God had decided to free the Bulgarians and the Vlach people and to lift the yoke that they had borne for so long\". This persuaded their followers to attack Byzantine cities, seizing prisoners and cattle. Preslav, capital of the First Bulgarian Empire, was raided, and it was after this symbolic incident that Peter assumed the insignia of Tsar (or Emperor).\n\nIn the spring of 1186, Isaac started a counter-offensive. It was successful at first. During the solar eclipse of 21 April 1186, the Byzantines successfully attacked the rebels, many of whom fled north of the Danube, making contact with the Cumans. In a symbolic gesture, Isaac II entered Peter's house and took the icon of Saint Demetrius, thus regaining the saint's favour. Still under threat of ambush from the hills, Isaac returned hastily to Constantinople to celebrate his victory. Thus, when the armies of Bulgarians and the Vlachs returned, reinforced with their Cuman allies, they found the region undefended and regained not only their old territory but the whole of Moesia, a considerable step towards the establishment of a new Bulgarian state.\n\nThe Emperor now entrusted the war to his uncle, John the sebastocrator, who gained several victories against the rebels but then himself rebelled. He was replaced with the emperor's brother-in-law, John Kantakouzenos, a good strategist but unfamiliar with the guerrilla tactics used by the mountaineers. His army was ambushed, suffering heavy losses, after unwisely pursuing the enemy into the mountains.\n\nThe third general in charge of fighting the rebels was Alexius Branas, who, in turn, rebelled and turned on Constantinople. Isaac defeated him with the help of a second brother-in-law, Conrad of Montferrat, but this civil strife had diverted attention from the rebels and Isaac was able to send out a new army only in September 1187. The Byzantines obtained a few minor victories before winter, but the rebels, helped by the Cumans and employing their mountain tactics, still held the advantage.\n\nIn the spring of 1187, Isaac attacked the fortress of Lovech, but failed to capture it after a three-month siege. The lands between the Haemus and the Danube were now lost for the Byzantine Empire, leading to the signing of a truce, thus de facto recognising the rule of the Asen and Peter over the territory, leading to the creation of the Second Bulgarian Empire. The Emperor's only consolation was to hold, as hostages, Asen's wife and a certain John (future Kaloyan of Bulgaria), brother of the two new leaders of the Bulgarian state.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46398840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46398840", "title": "Valentí Serra de Manresa", "text": "Valentí Serra de Manresa\n\nValentí Serra i Fornell (Manresa, Bages, 1959), is a Spanish Capuchin and priest, whose religious name is Valentí Serra de Manresa.\n\nHe was born in a Catalan traditional family of farmers and ranchers. He became Capuchin in 1980 and he took the vows of saint Francis' rule on 30 October 1982. Once he finished his years of religious instruction, he became priest on 31 May 1987 in the Capuchin convent of Arenys de Mar. Then he moved to the Capuchin convent of Sarrià, where he lives nowadays. He became Doctor in History in the University of Barcelona in 1995.\n\nHe is scientific partner of the Theology Faculty of Catalonia (2007). He is part also of the Doctors board of the University of Barcelona (1997). Since 1987 he is provincial archivist of the Capuchins and director of the Hispanic-Capuchin Library. He is correspondent in Barcelona of the \"Revue d'Histoire Ecclésiastique\" (Review of Church History) (Université catholique de Louvain) and member of the editorial staff of the review \"Analecta Sacra Tarraconensia\" (Balmesiana). He is also editor of the \"Índice Histórico Español\" (Spanish Historical Index), which is a review about bibliographical critics, founded in 1953 by Jaume Vicens Vives and published by the \"Centro de Estudios Históricos Internacionales\" (Center of Historical International Studies). He collaborates regularly with the weekly newspaper Catalunya Cristiana (Christian Catalonia). He has the weekly program \"Remeis de Frare\" (Friar's remedies) in Ràdio Estel, which deals with the traditions about medicinal plants in Catalonia. Since 2015 he takes part in the composition of the \"Calendar of Brother Ramon of the Pyrenees\", which is quite popular in Catalonia. He writes also the section \"L'hortet del frare\" (the friar's little garden) in the agrarian supplement of the Diari de Girona. \n\nHe has made researches with a critical method about the institutional history of the Catalonia Capuchins from the beginning of the Bourbon dynasty (1700) until the outburst of the Spanish Civil War (1936); also about the Capuchin Clarisses since their foundation in Catalonia (1599) until the end of the Spanish Civil War (1939). He has also studied the evolution of the Franciscan laity that is linked with the Capuchins in the contemporary period (1883-1957) and the missionary history of the Catalan Capuchins overseas (1680-1989). These researches are included in nine volumes of the \"Col·lectània Sant Pacià\" (Saint Pacian collection) that publishes the Theology Faculty of Catalonia. He is currently making researches about the contribution of Catalan Capuchins to the Catalan popular and religious tradition: the representations of the birth of Jesuschrist and the popular devotions; the convents cuisine and the medicinal plants; the friars' horticulture and gardening\n\nThe rest of his works, contributions to collective works, prologues, scientific and popular articles and even, participation in congresses between 1982 and 2007 have been gathered in the book \"Bibliografia de fra Valentí Serra de Manresa, OFMCap. (anys 1982-2007). Noces d'argent\" (Bibliography of Valentí Serra de Manresa, OFMCap. (1982-2007). Silver wedding), by Dr. Joan Ferrer i Costa and Núria Ferret i Canale O.Virg. (Barcelona 2007).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20357244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20357244", "title": "War in Ingushetia", "text": "War in Ingushetia\n\nThe War in Ingushetia (Russian: Война в Ингушетии) began in 2007 as an escalation of an insurgency in Ingushetia connected to the separatist conflict in Chechnya. The conflict has been described as a civil war by local human rights activists and opposition politicians; others have referred to it as an uprising. By mid-2009 Ingushetia had surpassed Chechnya as the most violent of the North Caucasus republics. However, by 2015 the insurgency in the Republic had greatly weakened, and the casualty toll declined substantially in the intervening years.\n\nOn 26 July 2007, a massive security operation was launched in Ingushetia, sparked by a series of attacks including an assassination attempt on President Murat Zyazikov five days earlier. Moscow sent in an additional 2,500 MVD troops, almost tripling the number of special forces in Ingushetia. In the next few days, hundreds of men were rounded up in the sweeps, while several security officers were killed and wounded in the continued attacks. By October 2007, police and security forces in Ingushetia were issued orders to stop informing the media of any \"incidents of a terrorist nature.\"\n\nIn 2008, Magomed Yevloyev, owner of the highly critical opposition website Ingushetia.ru, was killed while in police custody. The aftermath of the killing was marked by an upsurge in separatist activity and animosity towards Russia and Russians among the Ingush population. At the center of this controversy was the deeply unpopular President Murat Zyazikov, a former KGB general who was criticized both by human rights groups and by some in the Russian government. The Ingush Interior Minister Musa Medov was targeted by a suicide bomber in October 2008. Eventually, Zyazikov was asked to resign. On 30 October 2008, Russian president Dmitry Medvedev signed a decree to remove Zyazikov from office and replace him with Lieutenant Colonel Yunus-bek Yevkurov. This was hailed by the Ingush opposition as a victory.\n\nHowever, the violence did not end. According to police sources, nearly 50 people (including 27 rebels, 18 policemen and two civilians) died in the almost daily clashes in this small republic (less than 500,000 inhabitants) in the first three months of 2009. Assassinations and attempted assassinations of high-profile figures continued. On 10 June 2009 Aza Gazgireeva, the Deputy Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Ingushetia, was gunned down, and on 13 June former Deputy Prime Minister Bashir Aushev was shot dead outside his home. Ingush President Yevkurov was seriously wounded in a suicide bomb attack on 22 June, and Construction Minister Ruslan Amerkhanov was shot dead in his office in August. In October 2010, the Ingush branch of the Islamist Caucasus Emirate group announced a moratorium on killing police officers; according to President Yevkurov, 400 police officers had been killed in Ingushetia in the five years to 2 October 2010.\n\nAfter 2010, the levels of violence in Ingushetia began to decline, this trend continued, with total casualties in the Republic falling by over 60 percent from 2013 to 2014. In 2014, the insurgency's leader Arthur Getagazhev was killed by security forces. In mid-2015, Yevkurov stated that the insurgency in the Republic had been 'defeated'. He said that 80 fighters from the group had turned themselves in and been given amnesty and that the remaining active insurgents were greatly reduced in numbers. Reasons suggested for this decline, which was reflected more broadly throughout the Insurgency in the North Caucasus, included the deaths of high-ranking insurgency commanders, the increased targeting by security forces of the support infrastructure relied on by the insurgents, and an exodus of insurgents to other conflict zones.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19336369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19336369", "title": "Web threat", "text": "Web threat\n\nA web threat is any threat that uses the World Wide Web to facilitate cybercrime. Web threats use multiple types of malware and fraud, all of which utilize HTTP or HTTPS protocols, but may also employ other protocols and components, such as links in email or IM, or malware attachments or on servers that access the Web. They benefit cybercriminals by stealing information for subsequent sale and help absorb infected PCs into botnets.\n\nWeb threats pose a broad range of risks, including financial damages, identity theft, loss of confidential information/data, theft of network resources, damaged brand/personal reputation, and erosion of consumer confidence in e-commerce and online banking.\n\nIt is a type of threat related to information technology (IT). The IT risk, i.e. risk affecting has gained and increasing impact on society due to the spread of IT processes.\n\nWeb threats can be divided into two primary categories, based on delivery method – push and pull. Push-based threats use spam, phishing, or other fraudulent means to lure a user to a malicious (often spoofed) website which then collects information and/or injects malware. Push attacks use phishing, DNS poisoning (or pharming), and other means to appear to originate from a trusted source.\n\nPrecisely-targeted push-based web threats are often referred to as spear phishing to reflect the focus of their data gathering attack. Spear phishing typically targets specific individuals and groups for financial gain. In other push-based web threats, malware authors use social engineering such as enticing subject lines that reference holidays, popular personalities, sports, pornography, world events and other hot topics to persuade recipients to open the email and follow links to malicious websites or open attachments with malware that accesses the Web.\n\nPull-based web threats are often referred to as “drive-by” threats by experts (and more commonly as “drive-by downloads” by journalists and the general public), since they can affect any website visitor. Cybercriminals infect legitimate websites, which unknowingly transmit malware to visitors or alter search results to take users to malicious websites. Upon loading the page, the user’s browser passively runs a malware downloader in a hidden HTML frame (IFRAME) without any user interaction.\n\n“And if today’s malware runs mostly runs on Windows because it’s the commonest executable platform, tomorrow’s will likely run on the Web, for the very same reason. Because, like it or not, the Web is already a huge executable platform, and we should start thinking of it this way, from a security perspective.” – Giorgio Maone \n\nThe growth of web threats is a result of the popularity of the Web – a relatively unprotected, widely and consistently used medium that is crucial to business productivity, online banking, and e-commerce as well as the everyday lives of people worldwide. The appeal of Web 2.0 applications and websites increases the vulnerability of the Web. Most Web 2.0 applications make use of AJAX, a group of web development programming tools used for creating interactive web applications or rich Internet applications. While users benefit from greater interactivity and more dynamic websites, they are also exposed to the greater security risks inherent in browser client processing.\n\nIn September 2008, malicious hackers broke into several sections of BusinessWeek.com to redirect visitors to malware-hosting websites. Hundreds of pages were compromised with malicious JavaScript pointing to third-party servers.\n\nIn August 2008, popular social networking sites were hit by a worm using social engineering techniques to get users to install a piece of malware. The worm installs comments on the sites with links to a fake site. If users follow the link, they are told they need to update their Flash Player. The installer then installs malware rather than the Flash Player. The malware then downloads a rogue anti-spyware application, AntiSpy Spider.\n\nIn May 2008, websites worldwide were compromised with a malicious JavaScript. Initially a half million websites worldwide were infected with a SQL injection which leveraged a ZLOB variant which then downloaded additional Trojan onto users’ PCs. Then websites in China, Taiwan and Singapore were compromised followed shortly thereafter by humanitarian, government and news sites in the UK, Israel and Asia. In this attack the compromised websites led, through a variety of redirects, to the download of a Trojan.\n\nConventional approaches have failed to fully protect consumers and businesses from web threats. The most viable approach is to implement multi-layered protection—protection in the cloud, at the Internet gateway, across network servers and on the client.\n\n"}
