{"id": "38465372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38465372", "title": "1955 in philosophy", "text": "1955 in philosophy\n\n1955 in philosophy\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39566388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39566388", "title": "Andrew McGowan", "text": "Andrew McGowan\n\nAndrew Brian McGowan (born 1961) is an Australian scholar of early Christianity and an Anglican priest. He is McFaddin Professor of Anglican Studies at Yale Divinity School and Dean and President of the Berkeley Divinity School at Yale.\n\nPrior to appointment at Berkeley and Yale he was seventh Warden of Trinity College (University of Melbourne) 2007-14, and Joan F.W. Munro Professor of Historical Theology in the Trinity College Theological School, Melbourne, within the University of Divinity.\n\nMcGowan was born in Melbourne, moving to Perth as a teenager. He attended Christ Church Grammar School in Perth, and then studied classics and ancient history at the University of Western Australia (BA Hons 1983). He studied theology at Trinity College (BD (Hons) 1986) in Melbourne. After ordination he served a curacy in Como/Manning before appointment as Rector of Forrestfield in 1988. He then undertook doctoral studies in Christianity and Judaism in Antiquity at the University of Notre Dame in Indiana, United States (MA, PhD, 1996), where he was supervised by Harold W. Attridge.\n\nOn his return to Australia in 1996, McGowan was Lecturer in New Testament and Early Christianity at the University of Notre Dame Australia in Fremantle. In 1998 he was appointed Assistant Professor in Early Christian History at the Episcopal Divinity School in Cambridge, Massachusetts, being promoted to Associate Professor in 1999.\n\nHe returned to Trinity College as director of its Theological School in 2003. After serving as acting warden in 2005 and 2006, he was appointed seventh Warden of Trinity College in January 2007. In October 2012, he was elected one of the ten Foundation Professors of the MCD University of Divinity, Australia’s first specialist university. During this time he was a member of Chapter (i.e., Canon) at St Paul's Cathedral, Melbourne and a clerical member of the General Synod of the Anglican Church of Australia.\n\nIn July 2014, McGowan returned to the United States to succeed Joseph H. Britton in the post of Dean and President of the Berkeley Divinity School at Yale and Associate Dean for Anglican Studies at Yale Divinity School. He was also appointed J. L. Caldwell McFaddin and Rosine B. McFaddin Professor of Anglican Studies by the President and Fellows of Yale University from July 2014.\n\nHis research interests centre on ancient Christianity, especially the Eucharist, food and meals in antiquity, early North African Christianity, and on Anglican theology. He has also been a commentator on aspects of higher education and religion in contemporary society, including such forums as the ABC’s \"The Drum\", the news column of the Biblical Archaeology Society called \"Bible History Daily\" and SkyNews.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52049090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52049090", "title": "Ballygawley land mine attack", "text": "Ballygawley land mine attack\n\nThe Ballygawley land mine attack was a bomb attack carried out by the Provisional Irish Republican Army (PIRA) on the 13 July 1983. The IRA exploded a landmine under an Ulster Defense Regiment's (UDR) mobile patrol at Ballygawley Road, near Dungannon in County Tyrone, Northern Ireland. Four UDR soldiers were killed in the incident.\n\nAfter the 1981 Irish hunger strike floods of recruits signed up to join the IRA. Republicans in Tyrone were especially angry over the death of Martin Hurson who was from the small Tyrone village of Cappagh, Hurson was one of Cappagh's most famous sons. Cappagh became a Republican stronghold in the 1980s. Lots of young men flocked to join the East Tyrone Brigade to avenge Hurson's death. Some of those who joined after being radicalized by the Hunger Strike would go onto become famous IRA Volunteers like Declan Arthurs & Martin McCaughey who were both small children when the conflict broke out in 1969.\n\nSinn Fein member Francie Molloy said the following on Hurson's funeral and the effect his death had on the young people of Cappagh:\n\n\"There was people everywhere. The village was black with them. It was the first sign in Tyrone of thousands and thousands of people assembling to honor the remains of a native son coming home. Martin was young when he went to jail and young when died on hunger strike. His death just made young people more determined that they were going to replace him. They saw ten men dead as the British government taking people out of the struggle. I think the young people of Cappagh and surrounding areas decided there and then that they were going to replace everyone one of them and replace them tenfold. And that is what they did. The number of young people who joined up in response was massive.\" \n\nFour British Army (Ulster Defence Regiment) soldiers (Ronald Alexander, Thomas Harron, John Roxborough, and Oswald Neely), all Protestant members of the 6th Battalion UDR, were travelling in their mobile patrol along a road in Tyrone close to the small town of Ballygawley.\nIRA Volunteers from the East Tyrone Brigade planted a 500lb landmine along the road the UDR patrol was coming along. The IRA unit noticed the UDR took a similar route every so often and had spotted weakness in the patrol. The IRA Volunteers were watching the UDR patrol while being well hidden, once the UDR patrol was close to the landmine the IRA Volunteers detonated the landmine by remote control killing the four UDR soldiers almost straight away. This was the highest casualty rate suffered by the UDR in a single incident during The Troubles & worst attack suffered by the security forces since 1981. The attack was carried out by an Active Service Unit (ASU) of the IRA's East Tyrone Brigade which was one of the most active & successful Brigade areas in the IRA during the 1980s.\n\nWithin five years the IRA's East Tyrone Brigade would launch two more high-profile attacks in Ballygawley. In 1985 during the Attack on Ballygawley barracks an IRA unit led by Patrick Joseph Kelly & Jim Lynagh attacked the Ballygawley RUC barracks shooting dead two RUC officers who were at the front of the station, a 200lb bomb destroyed the whole barracks and injured 3 more RUC officers. In 1988 the IRA killed eight British soldiers and injured twenty eight others during the Ballygawley bus bombing, a lot of Republicans saw this as revenge for the Loughgall Ambush the year before when the SAS shot dead 8 IRA Volunteers.\n\n"}
{"id": "344140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=344140", "title": "Baroque architecture", "text": "Baroque architecture\n\nBaroque architecture is the building style of the Baroque era, begun in late 16th-century Italy, that took the Roman vocabulary of Renaissance architecture and used it in a new rhetorical and theatrical fashion, often to express the triumph of the Catholic Church. It was characterized by new explorations of form, light and shadow, and dramatic intensity. Common features of Baroque architecture included gigantism of proportions; a large open central space where everyone could see the altar; twisting columns, theatrical effects, including light coming from a cupola above; dramatic interior effects created with bronze and gilding; clusters of sculpted angels and other figures high overhead; and an extensive use of trompe-l'oeil, also called \"quadratura,\" with painted architectural details and figures on the walls and ceiling, to increase the dramatic and theatrical effect.\n\nWhereas the Renaissance drew on the wealth and power of the Italian courts and was a blend of secular and religious forces, the Baroque was, initially at least, directly linked to the Counter-Reformation, a movement within the Catholic Church to reform itself in response to the Protestant Reformation. Baroque architecture and its embellishments were on the one hand more accessible to the emotions and on the other hand, a visible statement of the wealth and power of the Catholic Church. The new style manifested itself in particular in the context of the new religious orders, like the Theatines and the Jesuits who aimed to improve popular piety.\n\nLutheran Baroque art, such as the example of Dresden Frauenkirche (1726-1743), developed as a confessional marker of identity, in response to the Great Iconoclasm of Calvinists.\n\nThe architecture of the High Roman Baroque can be assigned to the papal reigns of Urban VIII, Innocent X and Alexander VII, spanning from 1623 to 1667. The three principal architects of this period were the sculptor Gianlorenzo Bernini, Francesco Borromini and the painter Pietro da Cortona and each evolved his own distinctively individual architectural expression.\n\nDissemination of Baroque architecture to the south of Italy resulted in regional variations such as Sicilian Baroque architecture or that of Naples and Lecce. To the north, the Theatine architect Camillo-Guarino Guarini, Bernardo Vittone and Sicilian born Filippo Juvarra contributed Baroque buildings to the city of Turin and the Piedmont region.\n\nA synthesis of Bernini, Borromini and Cortona’s architecture can be seen in the late Baroque architecture of northern Europe which paved the way for the more decorative Rococo style.\n\nBy the middle of the 17th century, the Baroque style had found its secular expression in the form of grand palaces, first in France—with the Château de Maisons (1642) near Paris by François Mansart—and then throughout Europe.\n\nDuring the 17th century, Baroque architecture spread through Europe and Latin America, where it was particularly promoted by the Jesuits.\n\nMichelangelo's late Roman buildings, particularly St. Peter's Basilica, may be considered precursors to Baroque architecture. His pupil Giacomo della Porta continued this work in Rome, particularly in the façade of the Jesuit church Il Gesù, which leads directly to the most important church façade of the early Baroque, Santa Susanna (1603), by Carlo Maderno.\n\nDistinctive features of Baroque architecture can include:\n\nThough the tendency has been to see Baroque architecture as a European phenomenon, it coincided with, and is integrally enmeshed with, the rise of European colonialism. Colonialism required the development of centralized and powerful governments with Spain and France, the first to move in this direction. Colonialism brought in huge amounts of wealth, not only in the silver that was extracted from the mines in Bolivia, Mexico and elsewhere, but also in the resultant trade in commodities, such as sugar and tobacco. The need to control trade routes, monopolies, and slavery, which lay primarily in the hands of the French during the 17th century, created an almost endless cycle of wars between the colonial powers: the French religious wars, the Thirty Years' War (1618 and 1648), Franco–Spanish War (1653), the Franco-Dutch War (1672–1678), and so on. The initial mismanagement of colonial wealth by the Spaniards bankrupted them in the 16th century (1557 and 1560), recovering only slowly in the following century. This explains why the Baroque style, though enthusiastically developed throughout the Spanish Empire, was to a large extent, in Spain, an architecture of surfaces and façades, unlike in France and Austria where we see the construction of numerous huge palaces and monasteries. In contrast to Spain, the French, under Jean-Baptiste Colbert (1619–1683), the minister of finance, had begun to industrialize their economy, and thus, were able to become, initially at least, the benefactors of the flow of wealth. While this was good for the building industries and the arts, the new wealth created an inflation, the likes of which had never been experienced before. Rome was known just as much for its new sumptuous churches as for its vagabonds.\n\n A number of ecclesiastical buildings of the Baroque period in Rome had plans based on the Italian paradigm of the basilica with a crossed dome and nave, but the treatment of the architecture was very different from what had been carried out previously. One of the first Roman structures to break with the Mannerist conventions exemplified in the Gesù, was the church of Santa Susanna, designed by Carlo Maderno. The dynamic rhythm of columns and pilasters, central massing, and the protrusion and condensed central decoration add complexity to the structure. There is an incipient playfulness with the rules of classic design, but it still maintains rigor.\n\nThe same concerns with plasticity, massing, dramatic effects and shadow and light is evident in the architectural work of Pietro da Cortona, illustrated by his design of Santi Luca e Martina (construction began in 1635) with what was probably the first curved Baroque church façade in Rome. These concerns are even more evident in his reworking of Santa Maria della Pace (1656–68). The façade with its chiaroscuro half-domed portico and concave side wings, closely resembles a theatrical stage set and the church façade projects forward so that it substantially fills the tiny trapezoidal piazza. Other Roman ensembles of the Baroque and Late Baroque period are likewise suffused with theatricality and, as urban theatres, provide points of focus within their locality in the surrounding cityscape.\n\nProbably the most well known example of such an approach is Saint Peter's Square, which has been praised as a masterstroke of Baroque theatre. The piazza, designed by Gian Lorenzo Bernini, is formed principally by two colonnades of free standing columns centred on an Egyptian obelisk. Bernini's own favourite design was his oval church of Sant'Andrea al Quirinale decorated with polychome marbles and an ornate gold dome. His secular architecture included the Palazzo Barberini based on plans by Maderno and the Palazzo Chigi-Odescalchi (1664), both in Rome.\n\nBernini's rival, the architect Francesco Borromini, produced designs that deviated dramatically from the regular compositions of the ancient world and Renaissance. His building plans were based on complex geometric figures, his architectural forms were unusual and inventive and he employed multi-layered symbolism in his architectural designs. Borromini's architectural spaces seem to expand and contract when needed, showing some affinity with the late style of Michelangelo. His iconic masterpiece is the diminutive church of San Carlo alle Quattro Fontane, distinguished by a complicated plan arrangement that is partly oval and partly a cross and so has complex convex-concave wall rhythms. A later work, the church of Sant'Ivo alla Sapienza, displays the same playful inventiveness and antipathy to the flat surface, epitomized by an unusual \"corkscrew\" lantern above the dome.\n\nFollowing the death of Bernini in 1680, Carlo Fontana emerged as the most influential architect working in Rome. His early style is exemplified by the slightly concave façade of San Marcello al Corso. Fontana's academic approach, though lacking the dazzling inventiveness of his Roman predecessors, exerted substantial influence on Baroque architecture both through his prolific writings and through a number of architects he trained, who would disseminate the Baroque idioms throughout 18th-century Europe.\n\nThe 18th century saw the capital of Europe's architectural world transferred from Rome to Paris. The Italian Rococo, which flourished in Rome from the 1720s onward, was profoundly influenced by the ideas of Borromini. The most talented architects active in Rome—Francesco de Sanctis (Spanish Steps, 1723) and Filippo Raguzzini (Piazza Sant'Ignazio, 1727)—had little influence outside their native country, as did numerous practitioners of the Sicilian Baroque, including Giovanni Battista Vaccarini, Andrea Palma, and Giuseppe Venanzio Marvuglia.\n\nThe last phase of Baroque architecture in Italy is exemplified by Luigi Vanvitelli's Caserta Palace, reputedly the largest building erected in Europe in the 18th century. Indebted to contemporary French and Spanish models, the palace is skillfully related to the landscape. At Naples and Caserta, Vanvitelli practiced a sober and classicizing academic style, with equal attention to aesthetics and engineering, a style that would make an easy transition to Neoclassicism.\n\nIn the north of Italy, the monarchs from the House of Savoy were particularly receptive to the new style. They employed a brilliant triad of architects—Guarino Guarini, Filippo Juvarra, and Bernardo Vittone—to illustrate the grandiose political ambitions and the newly acquired royal status of their dynasty.\n\nGuarini was a peripatetic monk who combined many traditions (including that of Gothic architecture) to create irregular structures remarkable for their oval columns and unconventional façades. Building upon the findings of contemporary geometry and stereometry, Guarini elaborated the concept of \"architectura obliqua\", which approximated Borromini's style in both theoretical and structural audacity. Guarini's Palazzo Carignano (1679) may have been the most flamboyant application of the Baroque style to the design of a private house in the 17th century.\n\nFluid forms, weightless details, and the airy prospects of Juvarra's architecture anticipated the art of Rococo. Although his practice ranged well beyond Turin, Juvarra's most arresting designs were created for Victor Amadeus II of Sardinia. The visual impact of his Basilica di Superga (1717) derives from its soaring roof-line and masterful placement on a hill above Turin. The rustic ambiance encouraged a freer articulation of architectural form at the royal hunting lodge of the Palazzina di Stupinigi (1729). Juvarra finished his short but eventful career in Madrid, where he worked on the royal palaces at La Granja and Aranjuez.\n\nAmong the many who were profoundly influenced by the brilliance and diversity of Juvarra and Guarini, none was more important than Bernardo Vittone. This Piedmontese architect is remembered for an outcrop of flamboyant Rococo churches, quatrefoil in plan and delicate in detailing. His sophisticated designs often feature multiple vaults, structures within structures and domes within domes.\n\nThe Baroque style was introduced in Malta in the early 17th century, possibly by the Bolognese architect and engineer Bontadino de Bontadini, who was responsible for the construction of the Wignacourt Aqueduct between 1612 and 1615. The earliest Baroque structures in Malta were the decorative elements within the aqueduct, such as the Wignacourt Arch and several fountains.\n\nBaroque architecture became popular after Francesco Bounamici designed the Church of the Jesuits in Valletta in 1635. In the subsequent decades, many churches, public buildings, city gates, palaces and other structures were constructed or rebuilt in this style. New churches were built in the Baroque style, while older ones were rebuilt or redecorated. Examples include the interior of Saint John's Co-Cathedral, which was completely redesigned by Mattia Preti in the 1660s, and the Church of Our Lady of Victories, which had its façade rebuilt in 1752.\n\nThe architect Lorenzo Gafà designed many Baroque churches between the 1660s and the 1700s, including the Church of St. Lawrence in Birgu (1681–97), St. Paul's Cathedral in Mdina (1696–1705) and the Cathedral of the Assumption in Victoria, Gozo (1697–1711).\n\nThe most monumental Baroque building in Malta is Auberge de Castille, which was rebuilt in 1741–45 by Andrea Belli. Other examples of secular Baroque architecture in Malta include Hostel de Verdelin ( 1650s), parts of Fort Manoel (1723–33), the Mdina Gate (1724) and the Castellania (1757–60).\n\nThe Baroque style remained popular in Malta until the late 18th and early 19th century, when the neoclassical style was introduced. However, traditional Maltese architecture continued to have significant Baroque influences.\n\nAs Italian Baroque influences penetrated across the Pyrenees, they gradually superseded in popularity the restrained classicizing approach of Juan de Herrera, which had been in vogue since the late 16th century. As early as 1667, the façades of Granada Cathedral (by Alonso Cano) and Jaén Cathedral (by Eufrasio López de Rojas) suggest the artists' fluency in interpreting traditional motifs of Spanish cathedral architecture in the Baroque aesthetic idiom.\n\nIn contrast to the art of Northern Europe, the Spanish art of the period appealed to the emotions rather than seeking to please the intellect. The Churriguera family, which specialized in designing altars and retables, revolted against the sobriety of the Herreresque classicism and promoted an intricate, exaggerated, almost capricious style of surface decoration known as the Churrigueresque. Within half a century, they transformed Salamanca into an exemplary Churrigueresque city. Among the highlights of the style, the interiors of the Granada Charterhouse offer some of the most impressive combinations of space and light in 18th-century Europe. Integrating sculpture and architecture even more radically, Narciso Tomé achieved striking chiaroscuro effects in his \"Transparente\" for the Toledo Cathedral.\n\nThe development of the style passed through three phases. Between 1680 and 1720, the Churriguera popularized Guarini's blend of Solomonic columns and composite order, known as the \"supreme order\". Between 1720 and 1760, the Churrigueresque column, or estipite, in the shape of an inverted cone or obelisk, was established as a central element of ornamental decoration. The years from 1760 to 1780 saw a gradual shift of interest away from twisted movement and excessive ornamentation toward a neoclassical balance and sobriety.\n\nTwo of the most eye-catching creations of Spanish Baroque are the energetic façades of the University of Valladolid (Diego Tomé, 1716-1718) and Hospicio de San Fernando in Madrid (Pedro de Ribera, 1722), whose curvilinear extravagance seems to herald Antonio Gaudí and Art Nouveau. In this case as in many others, the design involves a play of tectonic and decorative elements with little relation to structure and function. The focus of the florid ornamentation is an elaborately sculptured surround to a main doorway. If we remove the intricate maze of broken pediments, undulating cornices, stucco shells, inverted tapers, and garlands from the rather plain wall it is set against, the building's form would not be affected in the slightest.\n\nThe combination of the Native American and Moorish decorative influences with an extremely expressive interpretation of the Churrigueresque idiom may account for the full-bodied and varied character of the Baroque in the American colonies of Spain. Even more than its Spanish counterpart, American Baroque developed as a style of stucco decoration. Twin-towered façades of many American cathedrals of the 17th century had medieval roots and the full-fledged Baroque did not appear until 1664, when a Jesuit shrine on Plaza des Armas in Cusco was built. Even then, the new style hardly affected the structure of churches.\n\nTo the north, the richest province of 18th-century New Spain—Mexico—produced some fantastically extravagant and visually frenetic architecture known as Mexican Churrigueresque. This ultra-Baroque approach culminates in the works of Lorenzo Rodriguez, whose masterpiece is the Sagrario Metropolitano in Mexico City. Other fine examples of the style may be found in remote silver-mining towns. For instance, the Sanctuary at Ocotlán (begun in 1745) is a top-notch Baroque cathedral surfaced in bright red tiles, which contrast delightfully with a plethora of compressed ornament lavishly applied to the main entrance and the slender flanking towers.\n\nThe true capital of Mexican Baroque is Puebla, where a ready supply of hand-painted ceramics (talavera) and vernacular gray stone led to its evolving further into a personalised and highly localised art form with a pronounced Indian flavour. There are about sixty churches whose façades and domes display glazed tiles of many colours, often arranged in Arabic designs. The interiors are densely saturated with elaborate gold leaf ornamentation. In the 18th century, local artisans developed a distinctive brand of white stucco decoration, named \"alfenique\" after a Pueblan candy made from egg whites and sugar.\n\nThe Peruvian Baroque was particularly lavish, as evidenced by the monastery of San Francisco at Lima (1673). While the rural Baroque of the Jesuit Block and Estancias of Córdoba in Córdoba, Argentina, followed the model of Il Gesu, provincial \"mestizo\" (crossbred) styles emerged in Arequipa, Potosí, and La Paz. In the 18th century, architects of the region turned for inspiration to the Mudéjar art of medieval Spain. The late Baroque type of Peruvian façade first appears in the Church of Our Lady of La Merced in Lima. Similarly, the Church of La Compañia in Quito suggests a carved altarpiece with its richly sculpted façade and a surfeit of spiral salomónica.\n\nEarthquake Baroque is a style of Baroque architecture found in the Philippines, which suffered destructive earthquakes during the 17th century and 18th century, where large public buildings, such as churches, were rebuilt in a Baroque style. Similar events led to the Pombaline architecture in Lisbon following the 1755 Lisbon earthquake and Sicilian Baroque in Sicily following the 1693 earthquake.\n\nNothwithstanding a prodigality of sensually rich surface decoration associated with Baroque architecture of the Iberian Peninsula, the royal courts of Madrid and Lisbon generally favoured a more sober architectural vocabulary distilled from 17th-century Italy. The royal palaces of Madrid, La Granja, Aranjuez and Mafra were designed by architects under strong influence of Bernini and Juvarra. In the realm of church architecture, Guarini's design for Santa Maria della Divina Providenza in Lisbon was a pace-setter for structural audacity in the region (even though it was never built).\n\nIn Portugal, the first fully Baroque church was the Church of Santa Engrácia, in Lisbon, designed by royal architect João Antunes, which has a Greek cross floorplan and curved facades. Antunes also designed churches in which the inner space is rectangular but with curved corners (like the Menino de Deus Church in Lisbon), a scheme that is found in several 18th-century churches in Portugal and Brazil. The court of John V, on the other hand, favoured Roman baroque models, as attested by the work of royal architect Ludovice, a German who designed the Royal Palace of Mafra, built after 1715.\n\nBy the mid-18th century, northern Portuguese architects had absorbed the concepts of Italian Baroque to revel in the plasticity of local granite in such projects as the surging 75-metre-high Torre dos Clérigos in Porto. The foremost centre of the national Baroque tradition was Braga, whose buildings encompass virtually every important feature of Portuguese architecture and design. The Baroque shrines and palaces of Braga are noted for polychrome ornamental patterns, undulating roof-lines, and irregularly shaped window surrounds.\n\nBrazilian architects also explored plasticity in form and decoration, though they rarely surpassed their continental peers in ostentation. The churches of Mariana and the Rosario at Ouro Preto are based on Borromini's vision of interlocking elliptical spaces. At São Pedro dos Clérigos, Recife), a conventional stucco-and-stone façade is enlivened by \"a high scrolled gable squeezed tightly between the towers\".\n\nEven after the Baroque conventions passed out of fashion in Europe, the style was long practised in Brazil by Aleijadinho, a brilliant and prolific architect in whose designs hints of Rococo could be discerned. His church of Bom Jesus de Matozinhos at Congonhas is distinguished by a picturesque silhouette and dark ornamental detail on a light stuccoed façade. Although Aleijadinho was originally commissioned to design São Francisco de Assis at São João del Rei, his designs were rejected, and were displaced to the church of São Francisco in Ouro Preto instead.\n\nIn the Kingdom of Hungary, the first great Baroque building was the Jesuit Church of Trnava (today in Slovakia) built by Pietro Spozzo in 1629–37, modelling the Church of the Gesu in Rome. Jesuits were the main propagators of the new style with their churches in Győr (1634–1641), Košice (1671–1684), Eger (1731–1733) and Székesfehérvár (1745–1751). The reconstruction of the territories devastated by the Ottoman Empire was carried out in Baroque style in the 18th century. Intact Baroque townscapes can be found in Győr, Székesfehérvár, Eger, Veszprém, Esztergom and the Castle District of Buda. The most important Baroque palaces in Hungary were the Royal Palace in Buda, Grassalkovich Palace in Gödöllő, and Esterházy Palace in Fertőd. Smaller Baroque edifices of the Hungarian aristocracy are scattered all over the country. Hungarian Baroque shows the double influence of Austrian and Italian artistic tendencies as many German and Italian architects worked in the country. The main characteristics of the local version of the style were modesty, lack of excessive decoration, and some \"rural\" flavour, especially in the works of the local masters. Important architects of the Hungarian Baroque were Andreas Mayerhoffer, Ignác Oraschek and Márton Wittwer. Franz Anton Pilgram also worked in the Kingdom of Hungary, for example on the great Premonstratensian monastery of Jasov (today in Slovakia). In the last decades of the 18th century Neo-Classical tendencies became dominant. The two most important architects of that period were Melchior Hefele and Jakab Fellner.\n\nBy the time Hungarian varieties of Baroque architecture appeared with several types of forms, shapes and decorations. Those that have become famous and nice, have been copied. That's why the Hungarian baroque edifices make groups based on similarities. The major kinds of buildings are the following: Eszterháza-type, Széchenyi-type, Gödöllő-type, religious (ecclesiastical) baroque, houses, and others (castles, peasant houses).\n\nSome representative Baroque structures in Romania are the Bánffy Palace in Cluj, the Brukenthal Palace in Sibiu and the Bishopric Palace in Oradea. Besides, almost every Transylvanian town has at least a Baroque church, the most representatives of which being St. George's Cathedral of Timişoara, Saint John the Baptist Church of Târgu Mureş, the Holy Trinity Cathedral of Blaj and the Piarist Church of Cluj.\n\nThe centre of Baroque secular architecture was France, where the open three-wing layout of the palace was established as the canonical solution as early as the 16th century. But it was the Palais du Luxembourg by Salomon de Brosse that determined the sober and classicizing direction that French Baroque architecture was to take. For the first time, the corps de logis was emphasized as the representative main part of the building, while the side wings were treated as hierarchically inferior and appropriately scaled down. The medieval tower has been completely replaced by the central projection in the shape of a monumental three-storey gateway.\n\nDe Brosse's melding of traditional French elements (e.g. lofty mansard roofs and a complex roof-line) with extensive Italianate quotations (e.g. ubiquitous rustication, derived from Palazzo Pitti in Florence) came to characterize the Louis XIII style. Probably the most accomplished formulator of the new manner was François Mansart, a tireless perfectionist credited with introducing the full Baroque to France. In his design for Château de Maisons (1642), Mansart succeeded in reconciling academic and Baroque approaches, while demonstrating respect for the gothic-inherited idiosyncrasies of the French tradition.\n\nThe Château of Maisons demonstrates the ongoing transition from the post-medieval chateaux of the 16th century to the villa-like country houses of the 18th. The structure is strictly symmetrical, with an order applied to each storey, mostly in pilaster form. The frontispiece, crowned with a separate aggrandized roof, is infused with remarkable plasticity and the ensemble reads like a three-dimensional whole. Mansart's structures are stripped of overblown decorative effects, so typical of contemporary Rome. Italian Baroque influence is muted and relegated to the field of decorative ornamentation.\n\nThe next step in the development of European residential architecture involved the integration of the gardens in the composition of the palace, as is exemplified by Vaux-le-Vicomte), where the architect Louis Le Vau, the designer Charles Le Brun and the gardener André Le Nôtre complemented one another. From the main cornice to a low plinth, the miniature palace is clothed in the so-called \"colossal order\", which makes the structure look more impressive. The creative collaboration of Le Vau and Le Nôtre marked the arrival of the \"Magnificent Manner\" which allowed to extend Baroque architecture outside the palace walls and transform the surrounding landscape into an immaculate mosaic of expansive vistas.\n\nThe same three artists scaled this concept to monumental proportions in the royal hunting lodge and later main residence at Versailles. On a far grander scale, the palace is an exaggerated and somewhat repetitive version of Vaux-le-Vicomte. It was both the most grandiose and the most imitated residential building of the 17th century. Mannheim, Nordkirchen and Drottningholm were among many foreign residences for which Versailles provided a model.\n\nThe final expansion of Versailles was superintended by Jules Hardouin-Mansart, whose key design is the Dome des Invalides, generally regarded as the most important French church of the century. Hardouin-Mansart profited from his uncle's instruction and plans to instill the edifice with an imperial grandeur unprecedented in the countries north of Italy. The majestic hemispherical dome balances the vigorous vertical thrust of the orders, which do not accurately convey the structure of the interior. The younger architect not only revived the harmony and balance associated with the work of the elder Mansart but also set the tone for Late Baroque French architecture, with its grand ponderousness and increasing concessions to academicism.\n\nThe reign of Louis XV saw a reaction against the official Louis XIV Style in the shape of a more delicate and intimate manner, known as Rococo. The style was pioneered by Nicolas Pineau, who collaborated with Hardouin-Mansart on the interiors of the royal Château de Marly. Further elaborated by Pierre Le Pautre and Juste-Aurèle Meissonier, the \"genre pittoresque\" culminated in the interiors of the Petit Château at Chantilly (c. 1722) and Hôtel de Soubise in Paris (c. 1732), where a fashionable emphasis on the curvilinear went beyond all reasonable measure, while sculpture, paintings, furniture, and porcelain tended to overshadow architectural divisions of the interior.\n\nBaroque architecture in the south, Flanders and Belgium developed rather differently from in the Protestant . After the Twelve Years' Truce, the Southern Netherlands remained in Catholic hands, ruled by the Spanish Habsburg Kings. Important architectural projects were set up in the spirit of the Counter-Reformation. In them, florid decorative detailing was more tightly knit to the structure, thus precluding concerns of superfluity. A remarkable convergence of Spanish, French, and Dutch Baroque aesthetics may be seen in the Abbey of Averbode (1667). Another characteristic example is the Church of St. Michel at Louvain, with its exuberant two-storey façade, clusters of half-columns, and the complex aggregation of French-inspired sculptural detailing.\n\nSix decades later, a Flemish architect, Jaime Borty Milia, was the first to introduce Rococo to Spain (Cathedral of Murcia, west façade, 1733). The greatest practitioner of the Spanish Rococo style was a native master, Ventura Rodríguez, responsible for the dazzling interior of the Basilica of Our Lady of the Pillar in Zaragoza (1750).\n\nSome Flemish architects such as Wenceslas Cobergher were trained in Italy and their works were inspired by architects such as Jacopo Barozzi da Vignola and Giacomo della Porta. Cobergher's most major project was the Basilica of Our Lady of Scherpenheuvel which he designed as the center of a new town in the form of a heptagon.\n\nThe influence of the painter Peter Paul Rubens on architecture was very important. With his book \"I Palazzi di Genova\" he introduced novel Italian models for the conception of profane buildings and decoration in the Southern Netherlands. The courtyard and portico of his own house in Antwerp (Rubenshuis) are good examples of his architectural activity. He also took part in the decoration of the Antwerp Jesuit Church (now Carolus Borromeuskerk) where he introduced a lavish Baroque decoration, integrating sculpture and painting in the architectural program.\n\nThere is little Baroque about Dutch architecture of the 17th century. The architecture of the first republic in Northern Europe was meant to reflect democratic values by quoting extensively from classical antiquity. Like contemporary developments in England, Dutch Palladianism is marked by sobriety and restraint. Two leading architects, Jacob van Campen and Pieter Post, used such eclectic elements as giant-order pilasters, gable roofs, central pediments, and vigorous steeples in a coherent combination that anticipated Wren's Classicism.\n\nThe most ambitious constructions of the period included the seats of self-government in Amsterdam (1646) and Maastricht (1658), designed by Campen and Post, respectively. On the other hand, the residences of the House of Orange are closer to a typical burgher mansion than to a royal palace. Two of these, Huis ten Bosch and Mauritshuis, are symmetrical blocks with large windows, stripped of ostentatious Baroque flourishes and mannerisms. The same austerely geometrical effect is achieved without great cost or pretentious effects at the Stadholder's summer residence of Het Loo.\n\nThe Dutch Republic was one of the great powers of 17th-century Europe and its influence on European architecture was by no means negligible. Dutch architects were employed on important projects in Northern Germany, Scandinavia and Russia, disseminating their ideas in those countries. The Dutch colonial architecture, once flourishing in the Hudson River Valley and associated primarily with red-brick gabled houses, may still be seen in Willemstad, Curaçao.\n\nBaroque aesthetics, whose influence was so potent in mid-17th-century France, made little impact in England during the Protectorate and the first Restoration years. For a decade between the death of Inigo Jones in 1652 and Christopher Wren's visit to Paris in 1665 there was no English architect of the accepted premier class. Unsurprisingly, general interest in European architectural developments was slight.\n\nIt was Wren who presided over the genesis of the English Baroque manner, which differed from the continental models by a clarity of design and a subtle taste for classicism. Following the Great Fire of London, Wren rebuilt fifty-three churches, where Baroque aesthetics are apparent primarily in dynamic structure and multiple changing views. His most ambitious work was St Paul's Cathedral, which bears comparison with the most effulgent domed churches of Italy and France. In this majestically proportioned edifice, the Palladian tradition of Inigo Jones is fused with contemporary continental sensibilities in masterly equilibrium. Less influential were straightforward attempts to engraft the Berniniesque vision onto British church architecture (e.g. by Thomas Archer in St. John's, Smith Square, 1728).\nAlthough Wren was also active in secular architecture, the first truly Baroque country house in England was built to a design by William Talman at Chatsworth, starting in 1687. The culmination of Baroque architectural forms comes with Sir John Vanbrugh and Nicholas Hawksmoor. Each was capable of a fully developed architectural statement, yet they preferred to work in tandem, most notably at Castle Howard (1699) and Blenheim Palace (1705).\n\nAlthough these two palaces may appear somewhat ponderous or turgid to Italian eyes, their heavy embellishment and overpowering mass captivated the British public, albeit for a short while. Castle Howard is a flamboyant assembly of restless masses dominated by a cylindrical domed tower which would not be out of place in Dresden or Munich. Blenheim is a more solid construction, where the massed stone of the arched gates and the huge solid portico becomes the main ornament. Vanbrugh's final work was Seaton Delaval Hall (1718), a comparatively modest mansion yet unique in the structural audacity of its style. It was at Seaton Delaval that Vanbrugh, a skillful playwright, achieved the peak of Restoration drama, once again highlighting a parallel between Baroque architecture and contemporary theatre. Despite his efforts, Baroque was never truly to the English taste and well before his death in 1724, the style had lost currency in Britain.\n\nIn the Holy Roman Empire, the Baroque period began somewhat later. Although the Augsburg architect Elias Holl (1573–1646) and some theoretists, including Joseph Furttenbach the Elder already practiced the Baroque style, they remained without successors due to the ravages of the Thirty Years' War. From about 1650 on, construction work resumed, and secular and ecclesiastical architecture were of equal importance. During an initial phase, master-masons from southern Switzerland and northern Italy, the so-called \"magistri Grigioni\" and the Lombard master-masons, particularly the Carlone family from Val d'Intelvi, dominated the field. However, Austria came soon to develop its own characteristic Baroque style during the last third of the 17th century. Johann Bernhard Fischer von Erlach was impressed by Bernini. He forged a new \"Imperial\" style by compiling architectural motifs from the entire history, most prominently seen in his Karlskirche in Vienna. Johann Lucas von Hildebrandt also had an Italian training. He developed a highly decorative style, particularly in façade architecture, which exerted strong influences on southern Germany.\nFrequently, the Southern German Baroque is distinguished from the Northern German Baroque, which is more properly the distinction between the Catholic and the Protestant Baroque. In the Catholic South, the Jesuit church of St. Michael in Munich was the first to bring Italian style across the Alps. However, its influence on the further development of church architecture was rather limited. A much more practical and more adaptable model of church architecture was provided by the Jesuit church in Dillingen): the wall-pillar church, a barrel-vaulted nave accompanied by large open chapels separated by wall-pillars. As opposed to St. Michael's in Munich, the chapels almost reach the height of the nave in the wall-pillar church, and their vault (usually transverse barrel-vaults) springs from the same level as the main vault of the nave. The chapels provide ample lighting; seen from the entrance of the church, the wall-pillars form a theatrical setting for the side altars. The wall-pillar church was further developed by the Vorarlberg school, as well as the master-masons of Bavaria. This new church also integrated well with the hall church model of the German late Gothic age. The wall-pillar church continued to be used throughout the 18th century (e.g. even in the early neo-classical church of Rot an der Rot Abbey), and early wall-pillar churches could easily be refurbished by re-decoration without any structural changes, such as the church at Dillingen.\nHowever, the Catholic South also received influences from other sources, such as the so-called \"radical Baroque\" of Bohemia. The radical Baroque of Christoph Dientzenhofer and his son Kilian Ignaz Dientzenhofer, both residing at Prague, was inspired by examples from northern Italy, particularly by the works of Guarino Guarini. It is characterized by the curvature of walls and intersection of oval spaces. While some Bohemian influence is visible in Bavaria's most prominent architect of the period, Johann Michael Fischer (the curved balconies of some of his earlier wall-pillar churches), the works of Balthasar Neumann, in particular the Basilica of the Vierzehnheiligen, are generally considered to be the final synthesis of Bohemian and German traditions.\n\nIn the Slovene Lands, especially in Carniola, Baroque arrived in the first half of the 17th century mostly through Italian influences. Ljubljana emerged as an important regional center of Baroque architecture in the early 18th century, mostly with the work of northern Italian artists such as Andrea Pozzo, Francesco Robba, Carlo Martinuzzi and Domenico Rossi. Their work in the today's Slovenia's capital incoporated many northern, especially Bohemian and Austrian elements, yet Slovenian baroque maintains a recognizably Italian touch to it.\nLower Styria was more influenced by various Austrian schools, especially Joseph Hueber and his pupils who built a number of manors in what is now eastern Slovenia.\nProtestant sacred architecture was of lesser importance during the Baroque, and produced only a few works of prime importance, particularly the Frauenkirche in Dresden. Architectural theory was more lively in the north than in the south of Germany, with Leonhard Christoph Sturm's edition of Nikolaus Goldmann, but Sturm's theoretical considerations (e.g. on Protestant church architecture) never really made it to practical application. In the south, theory essentially reduced to the use of buildings and elements from illustrated books and engravings as a prototype.\n\nPalace architecture was equally important both in the Catholic South and the Protestant North. After an initial phase when Italian architects and influences dominated (Vienna, Rastatt), French influence prevailed from the second decade of the 18th century onwards. The French model is characterized by the horseshoe-like layout enclosing a cour d'honneur (courtyard) on the town side (chateau entre cour et jardin), whereas the Italian (and also Austrian) scheme presents a block-like villa. The principal achievements of German Palace architecture, often worked out in close collaboration of several architects, provide a synthesis of Austro-Italian and French models. The most outstanding palace which blends Austro-Italian and French influences into a completely new type of building is the Würzburg Residence. While its general layout is the horseshoe-like French plan, it encloses interior courtyards. Its façades combine Lucas von Hildebrandt's love of decoration with French-style classical orders in two superimposed stories; its interior features the famous Austrian \"imperial staircase\", but also a French-type enfilade of rooms on the garden side, inspired by the \"apartement semi-double\" layout of French castles.\n\nThe first Baroque structure in the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth was the Corpus Christi Church build between 1586 and 1593 in Nieśwież (present day Niasvizh, Belarus). The church also holds a distinction of being the first domed basilica with a Baroque façade in the Commonwealth and Eastern Europe.\n\nIn the subsequent years of the early 17th century, Baroque architecture spread over the Commonwealth. Important Baroque churches build during this early phase of the style included the Church of Saints Peter and Paul in Kraków, the Vasa Chapel in the Wawel Cathedral (which was the Baroque equivalent to a neighboring Sigismund's Chapel build years earlier in the Renaissance style), and the Visitationist Church in Kraków. Most of these early Baroque churches followed a design pattern set by Giacomo Barozzi da Vignola's Church of the Gesù in Rome. Other important Baroque churches and chapels erected in the mid-17th century were St. Casimir's Chapel in the Vilnius Cathedral, St. Peter and Paul Church and St. Casimir's Church in Vilnius, Pažaislis monastery in Kaunas, the Dominican Church and St. George's Church in Lwów (present day Lviv, Ukraine). Examples from the late 17th-century include the Jesuit Church in Poznań, St. Francis Xavier Cathedral in Grodno, Royal Chapel in Gdańsk (which incorporates an eclectic architectural style based on a mix of Polish and Dutch building traditions), and Sanctuary of St. Mary in Masuria (build in the Tyrolean Baroque style). Notable examples of residential Baroque architecture from this time period include the Ujazdów Castle, Kazanowski Palace (destroyed), Wilanów Palace and Krasiński Palace in Warsaw.\n\nThe monumental castle Krzyżtopór (ruins), built in the style \"palazzo in fortezza\" between 1627 and 1644, had several courtyards surrounded by fortifications. Also, Late baroque fascination with the culture and art of China is reflected in Queen Masysieńka's Chinese Palace in Zolochiv. 18th-century magnate palaces represents the characteristic type of baroque suburban residence built \"entre cour et jardin\" (between the entrance court and the garden). Its architecture, a merger of European art with old Commonwealth building traditions, is visible in Potocki Palace in Radzyń Podlaski, Raczyński Palace in Rogalin and Wiśniowiecki Palace in Vyshnivets.\n\nDuring the late 17th century, the most famous architect in the Commonwealth was the Dutch-born Tylman van Gameren, who, at the age of 28, settled in Poland (the Crown of the Commonwealth) and worked for Queen Marie Casimire and King John III Sobieski. Tylman left behind a lifelong legacy of buildings that are regarded as gems of Polish Baroque architecture, they include among others, the Ostrogski Palace, Otwock Palace, Branicki Palace, St. Kazimierz Church and the Church of St. Anne.\n\nBy the end of the century, Polish Baroque influences crossed the Dnieper river into the Cossack Hetmanate, where it gave birth to a particular style of architecture, known as the \"Cossack Baroque\". Also, a notable style of baroque architecture emerged in the 18th century with the work of Johann Christoph Glaubitz who was assigned to rebuild the Grand Duchy of Lithuania's capital of Vilnius. The style was therefore named Vilnian Baroque and Old Vilnius was named the \"City of Baroque\". The most notable buildings by Glaubitz in Vilnius are the Church of St. Catherine started in 1743, the Church of the Ascension started in 1750, the Church of St. John, the monastery gate and the towers of the Church of the Holy Trinity. The magnificent and dynamic Baroque facade of the formerly Gothic Church of St. Johns is mentioned among his best works. Many church interiors including the one of the Great Synagogue of Vilna were reconstructed by Glaubitz as well as the Town Hall build in 1769. Notable buildings of Vilnian Baroque in other places are Saint Sophia Cathedral in Polotsk, Belarus (rebuilt between 1738 and 1765), Carmelite church in Hlybokaye, Belarus and the Church of St. Peter and St. Paul in Berezovichi, Belarus (built in 1776, and 1960s-1970s).\n\nUkrainian Baroque is an architectural style that emerged in Ukraine during the Hetmanate era, in the 17th and 18th centuries. Ukrainian Baroque is distinct from the Western European Baroque in having more moderate ornamentation and simpler forms, and as such was considered more constructivist. One of the unique features of the Ukrainian baroque, were bud and pear-shaped domes, that were later borrowed by the similar Naryshkin baroque. Many Ukrainian Baroque buildings have been preserved, including several buildings in Kiev Pechersk Lavra and the Vydubychi Monastery.\nThe best examples of Baroque painting are the church paintings in the Holy Trinity Church of the Kiev Pechersk Lavra. Rapid development in engraving techniques occurred during the Ukrainian Baroque period. Advances utilized a complex system of symbolism, allegories, heraldic signs, and sumptuous ornamentation.\n\nIn Russia, Baroque architecture passed through three stages—the early Moscow Baroque, with elegant white decorations on red-brick walls of rather traditional churches, the mature Petrine Baroque, mostly imported from the Low Countries, and the late Rastrelliesque Baroque, which was, in the words of William Brumfield, \"extravagant in design and execution, yet ordered by the rhythmic insistence of massed columns and Baroque statuary.\"\n\nThe first baroque churches were built in the estates of the Naryshkin family of Moscow boyars. It was the family of Natalia Naryshkina, Peter the Great's mother. Most notable in this category of small suburban churches were the Intercession in Fili (1693–96), the Holy Tritity church in Troitse-Lykovo (1690–1695) and the Saviour in Ubory (1694–97). They were built in red brick with profuse detailed decoration in white stone. The belfry was not any more placed beside the church as was common in the 17th century, but on the facade itself, usually surmounting the octagonal central church and producing daring vertical compositions. As the style gradually spread around Russia, many monasteries were remodeled after the latest fashion. The most delightful of these were the Novodevichy Convent and the Donskoy Monastery in Moscow, as well as Krutitsy metochion and Solotcha Cloister near Riazan. Civic architecture also sought to conform to the baroque aesthetics, e.g., the Sukharev Tower in Moscow and there is also a neo-form of this style like the Principal Medicine Store on Red Square. The most important architects associated with the Naryshkin Baroque were Yakov Bukhvostov and Peter Potapov.\n\nPetrine Baroque is a name applied by art historians to a style of Baroque architecture and decoration favoured by Peter the Great and employed to design buildings in the newly founded Russian capital, Saint Petersburg, under this monarch and his immediate successors. Unlike contemporaneous Naryshkin Baroque, favoured in Moscow, the Petrine Baroque represented a drastic rupture with Byzantine traditions that had dominated Russian architecture for almost a millennium. Its chief practitioners—Domenico Trezzini, Andreas Schlüter, and Mikhail Zemtsov—drew inspiration from a rather modest Dutch, Danish, and Swedish architecture of the time. Extant examples of the style in St Petersburg are the Peter and Paul Cathedral, the Twelve Colleges, the Kunstkamera, Kikin Hall and Menshikov Palace.The Petrine Baroque structures outside St Petersburg are scarce; they include the Menshikov Tower in Moscow and the Kadriorg Palace in Tallinn.\n\nDuring the golden age of the Swedish Empire, the architecture of Nordic countries was dominated by the Swedish court architect Nicodemus Tessin the Elder and his son Nicodemus Tessin the Younger. Their aesthetic was readily adopted across the Baltic, in Copenhagen and Saint Petersburg.\n\nBorn in Germany, Tessin the Elder endowed Sweden with a truly national style, a well-balanced mixture of contemporary French and medieval Hanseatic elements. His designs for the royal manor of Drottningholm seasoned French prototypes with Italian elements, while retaining some peculiarly Nordic features, such as the hipped roof (\"säteritak\").\n\nTessin the Younger shared his father's enthusiasm for discrete palace façades. His design for the Stockholm Palace draws so heavily on Bernini's unexecuted plans for the Louvre that one could well imagine it standing in Naples, Vienna, or Saint Petersburg. Another example of the so-called International Baroque, based on Roman models with little concern for national specifics, is the Royal Palace of Madrid. The same approach is manifested is Tessin's polychrome domeless , a skillful pastiche of early Italian Baroque, clothed in a giant order of paired Ionic pilasters.\n\nIt was not until the mid-18th century that Danish and Russian architecture were emancipated from Swedish influence. A milestone of this late period is Nicolai Eigtved's design for a new district of Copenhagen centred on the Amalienborg Palace. The palace is composed of four rectangular mansions, originally owned by four of Denmark's greatest noble families, arranged across the angles of an octagonal square. The restrained façades of the mansions hark back to French antecedents, while their interiors contain some of the finest Rococo decoration in Northern Europe. Amalienborg Palace has served as the residence of the Danish royal family since the late 18th century.\n\nIstanbul, once the capital of the Ottoman Empire, hosts many different varieties of Baroque architecture.\nAs reforms and innovations to modernize the country came out in 18th and 19th century, various architecture styles were used in Turkey, one of them was the Baroque Style. As Turkish architecture (which is also a combination of Islamic and Byzantine architecture) combined with Baroque, a new style called Ottoman Baroque appeared.\nBaroque architecture is mostly seen in mosques and palaces built in this centuries. The Ortaköy Mosque, is one of the best examples of the Ottoman Baroque architecture.\n\nThe Tanzimat Era caused more architectural development. The architectural change continued with Sultan Mahmud II, one of the most reformist sultans in Turkish History. One of his sons, Sultan Abdülmecid and his family left the Topkapı Palace and moved to the Dolmabahçe Palace which is the first European-style palace in the country.\n\nBaroque architecture in Istanbul was mostly used in palaces near the Bosphorus and Golden Horn. Beyoğlu was one of the places that Baroque and other European style architecture buildings were largely used. The famous streets called Istiklal Avenue, Nişantaşı, Bankalar Caddesi consist of these architecture style apartments.\nThe Ottoman flavour gives it its unique atmosphere, which also distinguishes it from the later \"colonial\" Baroque styles, largely used in the Middle East, especially Lebanon.\nLater and more mature Baroque forms in Istanbul can be found in the gates of the Dolmabahçe Palace which also has a very \"eastern\" flavour, combining Baroque, Romantic, and Oriental architecture.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31749320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31749320", "title": "Bartolomé Clavero", "text": "Bartolomé Clavero\n\nBartolomé Clavero Salvador is a Spanish jurist and historian, specialized in legal history.\n\nHe is a tenured full professor at University of Seville (http://www.us.es/acerca/directorio/ppdi/personal_3531). His works on usury, majorat or the concept of State in the Ancien Régime (its absence, indeed), with a polemic content and a materialistic point of view, rendered him to be considered by historiography apart from legal. He was a personal friend and biographer of Francisco Tomás y Valiente, who was murdered by ETA.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15880127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15880127", "title": "Conjectural portrait", "text": "Conjectural portrait\n\nA conjectural portrait is a portrait made of a historical figure for whom no authentic contemporary portrait is available. The depiction, then, may be variously informed by written accounts of physical appearance, conjecture based on the subject's culture and background, and/or the artist's conception of the subject's inner essence.\n\nCertain conjectural portraits have become iconic of their subjects, and are widely recognizable as such, with few being aware that they are not authentic portraits. For example, portraits of Christopher Columbus and Joan of Arc are widely recognized.\n\n"}
{"id": "55722597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55722597", "title": "Croxton Play of the Sacrament", "text": "Croxton Play of the Sacrament\n\nThe Croxton Play of the Sacrament is the only surviving English Host miracle play. The play centers around the abduction of a Host by a group of Jewish men, and the series of miracles that lead to their conversion of Christianity. \nThe play was written circa 1491. It is believed that the play was performed by an East Anglian touring company.\n\nThe original author is unknown, however it is believed that he was a member of clergy, as he has great knowledge of Scripture, The Mass, and The Office.\n\nA singular manuscript of the play is the only surviving text available. The manuscript is found in 338r–356r of Dublin, Trinity MS F.4.20, catalogue no. 652. The initials \"R.C\" are located on the bottom right corner of the text. Gail Gibson hypothesizes that these initials belong to a Vicar by the name of Robert Cooke, while Tamara Atkin argues that they belong to the printer Robert Copeland. Like the author, there is no way to definitively know what these initials really mean.\n\nThe main plot points throughout the play correspond to the main plot points from the Passion. As Aristorius is Christian, his selling of the host symbolizes Judas betraying Christ. The host is nailed to a post, relating to Christ's crucifixion. The cauldron symbolizes Christ's burial, while the oven symbolizes Hell. The image of Christ revealed at the end represents the resurrection of Christ.\n\nThe play is largely antisemitic, and Lisa Lampert views the play as a text that vilifies \"the Jew\" and casts them as a murderer and constant enemy of a Christian. She states that the play asserts that the Jews murdered Christ in the past, and will continue to do so in the future. Anthony Bale notes that while the play is largely antisemitic, viewing it as simply antisemitic would be a mistake. He asserts that the Jews are used to examine the aspects of religion, international trade, identity, and most importantly the efficacy of the Eucharist. He also asserts that the corrupt Christian (Aristorius) is presented as much at fault as the Jewish men who buy the host.\n\nThere is a lot of discussion around whether or not the Jews were actually meant to symbolize lollards. At the time that the play was created, Jews had been absent from England for almost two centuries. Celia Cutts believes that the focus of the real presence of Christ in the bread and wine was meant to target these lollards, and persuade them away from their heresy. Others have claimed that East Anglia was very tolerant in the fifteenth century, as long as the nonconformists were discreet and presented no threat to the state. Furthermore, those who oppose this theory claim the lack of evidence of lollardry during this time disproves it entirely.\n\nVexillators – Men who give a summary of the play before it begins.<br>\nJonathas – A Jewish merchant. Skeptical of the holy host, and aims to disprove it. <br>\nAristorius – A Christian merchant. Flawed in his own ways, as he steals and sells Christ’s body to Jonathas.<br>\nEpiscopus – The Bishop.<br>\nPresbyter – A Priest named Isoder.<br>\nClericus – A Clerk named Peter Paul. He is part of the deal to buy the host.<br>\nJason – “The second Jew.”<br>\nJasdon – “The third Jew.”<br>\nMasphat – “The fourth Jew.”<br>\nMalchus – “The fifth Jew.”<br>\nMagister Phisicus / Brundyche – A master physician, the \"quack doctor\".<br>\nColl – A servant.\n\nThe play begins with the Vexillators appearing to the audience with banners. They inform the audience of the plot. After the summary, the Vexillators ask that the audience never doubt Christ. They tell the audience that the play is set in Croxton, and then the play begins.\n\nAristorius appears, praising his success as a merchant, and thanking God for allowing him to sell his goods. Isoder enters, and says that he will do anything in his power to ensure that Aristorius remains successful. Jonathas then enters, thanking Mohammed for all that he possesses. Jonathas is a Jewish man who is skeptical of the holy host and Christian ways. He, along with his friends Jason and Jasdon, have discuss how insane it is for Christian men to “believe on a cake” in their religion. The cake is referring to the holy host. They wish to desecrate a host in the name of their god, and discuss ways in which they can secure one.\n\nThe Jewish men visit Aristorius, and ask him to sell the host. He initially refuses, as they are not of the Christian faith. Jonathas increases his offer to 100 pounds, which Aristorius is unable to turn down. Aristorius is afraid that he will get caught stealing the host, but Jonathas convinces him to do it at night time. Aristorius goes to visit the priest, and gets him drunk on wine – enabling him to steal the host.\n\nOnce they receive the consecrated host, Jonathas, Jason, Jasdon, Malchus, and Masphat decide to stab the host to see if it bleeds. To their surprise, it bleeds. Now terrified of the host, they decide to boil it in hot oil. When Jonathas tries to throw the host in the oil, it clings to his hand. He tries to wash it away in water, but again it stays attached. The men decide to pin it to a host, and pull Jonathas until he is released. The host is not removed, and the men wind up pulling so hard that his arm detaches from his body. Defeated, the men go to bed and vow to keep their plot a secret.\n\nColl and Brundich now enter. It is revealed that Brundich is a corrupt man, who makes his patients ill again to get the most money possible out of them. Coll tells Brundich of Jonathas’ troubles, and Brundich proceeds to attempt to treat him. Jonathas refuses this treatment, and tells Brundich to leave.\n\nJonathas has his men remove the host and toss it in the bubbling oil. The oil then turns to blood, and overflows. They then toss the host in a hot oven, where it begins to ooze blood and then eventually explode. After the explosion, an image of Christ appears to the men.\n\nChrist asks the Jewish men why they despise him so much. He proceeds to blame them for the desecration of his body both presently and in the past. Still, he says that he will forgive them. The men repent their sins, and Christ heals Jonathas’ arm when he dips it in the cauldron.\n\nUpon confessing his sins to the Bishop, Jonathas brings the Bishop back to the image of Christ. The Bishop converts the image back into bread, and goes back to the church. Aristorius confesses his sins, and asks forgiveness from the Bishop.\n\nAt the end of the play, all of the men attend a sermon at the church. The Jewish men convert, and proclaim belief in the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. The Bishop then asks for God’s blessing, and says in Latin “Te Deum Laudamus” (we praise you, God) which ends the play.\n\nA performance was staged at St. John's College Chapel in Oxford on January 9, 2013.\n\nOn March 13, 2014 a recording of a performance was uploaded to Vimeo from the user Unmarked Films. The performance can be viewed at https://vimeo.com/89019417.\n\nKnown publications of the play include:\n"}
{"id": "22510077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22510077", "title": "Dagmar Hagelin", "text": "Dagmar Hagelin\n\nDagmar Hagelin (September 29, 1959 - disappeared on January 27, 1977) was a 17-year-old Swedish-Argentine girl who disappeared during the Dirty War on January 27, 1977, and is presumed to have been arrested by security forces in El Palomar, Buenos Aires, Argentina, and murdered in a case of mistaken identity. Dagmar's father, Argentine-Swedish businessman Ragnar Hagelin has ever since worked to have the responsible people brought to justice, accusing Alfredo Astiz.\n\nHagelin and Svante Grände are the two known Swedish victims of the Dirty War during Argentina's military regime.\n\nIn October 2011, Alfredo Astiz was sentenced to life imprisonment for crimes against humanity in Argentina between the years of 1976 and 1983. Dagmar's father, Ragnar Hagelin commented to Swedish media on the sentence that he, \"couldn't describe the happiness he felt that after 34 years of struggles, Dagmar’s killer would finally pay for his crimes\". In 2010, a pilot named Julio Poch was indicted for the murder of Hagelin. Ragnar Hagelin resided in Stockholm, Sweden, until his death in 2016.\n\nIt is believed that Hagelin was a victim of mistaken identity when on January 27, 1977, she went to visit a friend in the suburbs of Buenos Aires. Her friend, who was politically active, had been arrested the night before by Alfredo Astiz's forces and had told during interrogations that another politically active friend of her would visit the next day. Hagelin, who had decided to visit her friend on a spur of the moment, was approached by the forces and shot when she tried to escape. She was taken to ESMA, a noted torture centre, where she was later killed. Hagelin was 17 years old at the time of her death.\n\n"}
{"id": "1498233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1498233", "title": "Dan Cruickshank", "text": "Dan Cruickshank\n\nDan Cruickshank (born 26 August 1949) is a British art historian and BBC television presenter, with a special interest in the history of architecture.\n\nCruickshank holds a BA in Art, Design and Architecture and was formerly a Visiting Professor in the Department of Architecture at the University of Sheffield and a member of the London faculty of the University of Delaware. He is an Honorary Fellow of the Royal Institute of British Artists, a member of the Executive Committee of the Georgian Group and on the Architectural Panel of the National Trust, and is an Honorary Fellow of RIBA.\n\nHe has served as Historic Buildings Consultant for ADAM Architecture since 1999 and has been involved in the repair and restoration of many historical buildings including Spencer House in St James’s, Heveningham Hall in Suffolk and numerous early 18th-century houses in Spitalfields and other parts of London. \n\nIn 2014 he was appointed President of Subterranea Britannica, a UK-based society for all those interested in man-made and man-used underground structures and space.\n\nHis professional publications include \"London – the Art of Georgian Building\", \"The National Trust and Irish Georgian Society Guide to the Georgian Buildings of Britain and Ireland\" and ‘’Life in the Georgian City’’. He edited the 20th edition of \"Sir Banister Fletcher’s History of Architecture\" and \"Timeless Architecture: a study of key buildings in architectural history\" and is a contributing editor to \"Architects’ Journal\", \"The Architectural Review\" and \"Perspectives on Architecture\".\n\nCruickshank began his career with the BBC as consultant, writer and presenter on the architectural programmes \"One Foot in the Past\" and \"The House Detectives\". He also contributed films to the \"Timewatch\" and \"Omnibus\" strands.\n\nIn 2001 he wrote and presented the series \"Invasion\" in which he examined attempts and plans to invade Britain and Ireland over the years by exploring coastal fortresses and defensive structures around the coast of the country to discover their military heritage.\n\nFurther series included \"Britain's Best Buildings\" examining architecturally – or culturally-significant buildings in Great Britain, \"Under Fire\" visiting museums and buildings in Afghanistan, Iraq and Israel to see how recent warfare has affected the country's historic artefacts, and \"What the Industrial Revolution Did for Us\" focusing on the scientific, technological and political changes of the 19th century.\n\nIn 2003, Cruickshank presented a documentary entitled \"\" following the debate and discussion that led to the selection of Daniel Libeskind's design for the World Trade Center site in New York City; while in 2005 he presented a documentary on the Mitchell and Kenyon collection — rolls of nitrate film shot in the early 20th century, depicting everyday life in Britain, which were discovered in 1994 in Blackburn.\n\nIn 2004, Cruickshank was at the centre of a controversy when historian Marc Morris pointed out that a documentary about Harlech Castle shown on BBC4 and billed as \"written and presented by Dan Cruickshank\" contained obvious borrowings from Morris's earlier Channel 4 series, \"Castle\". The BBC subsequently stated that Cruickshank was not responsible and that it was an error by researchers. Channel 4's head of history programming, Hamish Mykura, commented that \"When a programme claims to have an author's voice, it should be that author's voice and no one else's\". The BBC subsequently made a \"goodwill payment\" to Morris in recognition of the error.\n\nPerhaps his greatest success to date came with \"Around the World in 80 Treasures\", charting Cruickshank's five-month trip around the world to visit eighty man-made artefacts or buildings that he had selected, in order to chart the history of mankind's civilisation. \n\nIn 2006, Cruickshank presented \"Marvels of the Modern Age\", a series focusing on the development of modernism in design, from Greek and Roman architecture, to Bauhaus and the present.\n\n\"Dan Cruickshank's Adventures in Architecture\", a 2008 series in which he travelled around the world visiting what he considered to be the world's most unusual and interesting buildings.\n\nIn 2010, he embarked on a 3 part series on the history of the railways in Britain for National Geographic TV channel, including visits to Chester to examine the events surrounding the Dee bridge disaster of 1847, and Manchester for the Liverpool and Manchester Railway which opened in 1830. The series was entitled \"Great Railway Adventures\" and first appeared on UK television in the spring of 2010. In 2014, he appeared in \"The Life of Rock with Brian Pern\" as himself.\n\nCruickshank lives in a Georgian house in Spitalfields, London, which he shares with his partner, the painter Marenka Gabeler, their son Alexander and daughter, Isabel, from a previous marriage.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28763361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28763361", "title": "Ellen Fries", "text": "Ellen Fries\n\nEllen Fries (23 September 1855 at Rödslegård in Törnsfall, Kalmar län – 31 March 1900 in Stockholm) was a Swedish feminist and writer. She became the first female Ph.D. in Sweden in 1883.\n\nShe was the daughter of Colonel Patrik Constantin Fries and Beata Maria Borgström. She studied at the Åhlinska flickskolan, and graduated with a professional degree from Wallinska skolan in Stockholm 19 May 1874. She studied language and art by travelling to Paris and Leipzig and was a language teacher at Wallinska skolan in 1875-1877.\nThe universities in Sweden had been opened to both genders in 1870. Fries enlisted as a student at Uppsala University 12 October 1877. She studied history, Nordic language and political science and was given the scholarship Kraemerska stipendiet. She became the first female Ph.D. in Sweden 31 May 1883. She was a teacher in history at Wallinska skolan in Stockholm 1884-1886 and at Åhlinska flickskolan from 1885; in 1890, she became its principal.\n\nIn 1884, she was one of six to summon the first meeting of the feminist movement Fredrika-Bremer-förbundet; she initiated the foundation of \"Svenska kvinnors nationalförbund\" (Swedish Council of Women) in 1896, and one of the five co-founders of the Nya Idun society.\n\nFrom 1881, she was active in the feminist paper of Sophie Adlersparre, \"Tidskrift för hemmet\", mainly contributing with biographies of women, and she was also joint editor of the paper in 1883-85. She contributed with articles as a freelancer to various papers, such as \"Dagny (magazine)\" 1886–95, \"Framåt (paper)\" 1886, \"Verdandi (paper)\" 1888, \"Hemåt (paper)\" 1892, \"Nya Idun\" 1891–92, \"Stockholms Dagblad\" 1884–85 and \"Aftonbladet\" 1885 as well as in the dictionary \"Nordisk Familjebok\".\n\nIn 1886 and 1899–1900, she lectured about the 17th and 18th centuries at Pedagogiska lärokursen in Stockholm.\n\nDel två gavs ut efter hennes död av fadern:\n\n"}
{"id": "1191253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1191253", "title": "Euskadiko Ezkerra", "text": "Euskadiko Ezkerra\n\nEuskadiko Ezkerra (EE; ) was a Basque socialist political organisation. It was founded as a coalition of Euskal Iraultzarako Alderdia (EIA, \"Basque Party for Revolution\" or \"Party for Basque Revolution\") and other Basque Marxist forces in 1977 to present lists for the Spanish general elections in the constituencies of Vizcaya, Guipúzcoa and Álava, while UNAI, an allied coalition, was to present a list in the constituency of Navarre.\n\nEE's list in Guipúzcoa won one seat in the Spanish Congress for Francisco Letamendia, one in the Senate for Juan María Bandrés, a lawyer for ETA members, and none in the other constituencies. Many prominent members of EE eventually separated from the coalition and integrated into Herri Batasuna (HB). EE called for \"no\" in the Referendum for Spanish Constitution in 1978.\nSeveral of the members of ETA (pm) joined peaceful political action in EE after they abandoned violence and negotiated pardons from the Spanish government.\n\nIn 1982 it merged with some sectors of PCE-EPK (the Basque branch of PCE) and became a party under the name EE-IPS, \"Euskadiko Ezkerra-Izquierda para el Socialismo\" (\"Left for Socialism\"), while often using the simpler name Euskadiko Ezkerra. Its general secretary in this period was Mario Onaindia, a former ETA member during the Franco era, later replaced by Kepa Aulestia.\n\nEE called for a \"no\" on the membership of Spain in NATO in the referendum held in 1986. While the \"yes\" vote won nationally, the \"no\" campaign triumphed in the Basque Autonomous Community.\n\nAfter the split of the Basque Nationalist Party (PNV) and the creation of Eusko Alkartasuna (EA) in 1987, EE established several coalitions with the latter. In 1991 EE entered in the government of the Basque Autonomous Community in coalition with both PNV and EA.\n\nLater, in 1991, a majority of party affiliates approved a merger with Socialist Party of the Basque Country (PSE), the branch of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party (PSOE) for the Basque Autonomous Community. The resulting party is the current PSE-EE.\n\nHowever a section of Euskadiko Ezkerra disagreed with the PSE merger, and, since the Euskadiko Ezkerra name was retained by the majority of members who approved the merger with the PSE, the remaining faction went on to create a new party, Euskal Ezkerra (EuE, \"Basque Left\") which, in turn, merged soon after with Eusko Alkartasuna.\n\n"}
{"id": "1078604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1078604", "title": "George Grub", "text": "George Grub\n\nGeorge Grub (1812–1892) was a Scottish church historian.\n\nGrub was born at Old Aberdeen on 4 April 1812, was the only child of George Grub, a respectable citizen and convener of the trades at Old Aberdeen, by his wife, Christian Yolum. \nHe entered King's College, Aberdeen, at the age of thirteen and a half, and afterwards entered the law-office of Alexander Allan, advocate in Aberdeen, under whom he served the apprenticeship required by the Society of Advocates in Aberdeen.\n\nPassing as advocate in 1836, he was in 1841 appointed librarian to the society. \nThis post he held until his death. \nIn 1843 he became lecturer on Scots law in Marischal College, Aberdeen, and for forty-eight years was practically the sole teacher of law in the university of Aberdeen first, as holding this lectureship; next, after the union of King's and Marischal Colleges (1860–81), as 'substitute' for Professor Patrick Davidson, who held the chair of law at King's College, but never lectured. After Davidson's death in 1881, Grub became professor of law in the University of Aberdeen. In 1856, he graduated A.M. at Aberdeen, and in 1864 he received the degree of LL.D. from his university, and on resigning the chair in 1891 he was presented by his former students and fellow-citizens with his portrait painted by Sir George Reid.\n\nBy birth an inheritor of the Scottish non-juring tradition, he was himself an accomplished theologian ; he had followed with enthusiasm the whole course of the Oxford Movement; and in the congregation to which he belonged (St. John's Episcopal Church, Aberdeen) he had supported his clergyman, Patrick Cheyne, throughout a prosecution in regard to eucharistic doctrine, which had weighty consequences, for it led to the charge and prosecution of the bishop of Brechin, Alexander Penrose Forbes, and the intervention of Pusey and Keble in defence of that prelate. It took some time to heal the sores occasioned by that controversy.\n\nThere was at Aberdeen in the early 'thirties' a group of young men, all of them Aberdeen lawyers, all of them episcopalians, and all of them earnest students of history and antiquities John Hill Burton, Joseph Robertson (1810-1866), and John Stuart (1813-1877). \nWith these Grub associated on equal terms. Like them he contributed to the \"Aberdeen Magazine\" (1831-2), and took part in a far more important undertaking, the formation of the Spalding Club. \nFor this club he edited (1840-2), in conjunction with Joseph Robertson, Gordon's \"History of Scots Affairs,\" 3 vols. (1853), Thomas Innes's \"History of Scotland, Civil and Ecclesiastical\" (the \"Life of Thomas Innes\" which he contributed to this volume was reprinted in the edition of Innes's \"Critical Essays,\" published in the \"Historians of Scotland\" series), and (1869) the index volume of the \"Illustrations of the Antiquities of Aberdeen and Banff.\" \n\nIn 1861, his own work, by which he is best known, \"An Ecclesiastical History of Scotland from the Introduction of Christianity to the Present Time\" (it closes with the death of Bishop Skinner on 15 April 1857), in four volumes, was published at Edinburgh, and at once stamped him as the foremost authority on the subject in Scotland.\n\nClear and unaffected in style, this work is learned and exact, but it suffers somewhat from the fact that his extreme scrupulosity as to literal truth caused him to hold too severely in check the wit and liveliness which were so conspicuous and charming in his conversation. As an historian he was determined to be fair, albeit he is at no pains to conceal (what he was proud of) his enthusiastic toryism and his profound attachment to the Scottish episcopal church. \nIn the preface, Grub acknowledges the help he had received from Joseph Robertson and Mr. Norval Clyne; he regrets that for the history of the Roman Catholic church after the Reformation he had not been able to obtain more accurate materials; and he says that the work had occupied him more than nine years. In spite of the more recent researches on the Celtic period of Scottish history, the book is by no means out of date ; but it is unfortunate that no second edition of it was called for until Grub was too old to undertake the labour of preparing one. He had made notes for this which it is understood were lent to the Rev. W. Stephen, D.D., Dumbarton, for his \"History\".\nGrub contributed to \"Chambers's Encyclopædia\" the articles \"Scotland\" and \"Church of Scotland;\" that on \"Scottish Literature\" in the earlier editions was also his, but failing health prevented him from undertaking its revision for the new edition. \nTo the Aberdeen Philosophical Society, he contributed the \"Life of Bishop Elphinstone;\" \"The Life of Bishop Burnet, and his Character as a Historian and Biographer;\" \"Dr. James Beattie and his Friends;\" \"The Antiquities of Dunkeld;\" \"Froude's History and Mary, Queen of Scots;\" \"Elgin Cathedral;\" \"Review of the Evidence as to the Complicity of Queen Mary in the Murder of Darnley;\" and, in concert with his lifelong friend and companion, Mr. Norval Clyne, \"The Ecclesiastical and Baronial Antiquities of the Cathedral of Brechin and Castle of Edzell.\" An unpublished paper on Henry Scougal supplied materials for the \"Life\" of that author prefixed to the latest edition of Scougal's devotional treatise, \"The Life of God in the Soul of Man\" (Aberdeen, 1892).\n\nHis wife, Ann Lyall, died many years before him, leaving him two sons, the Rev. George Grub, rector of the Episcopal Church, Ayr, and the Rev. Charles Grub, rector of St. Mary's, Montrose.\n\nHis \"Ecclesiastical History of Scotland\" (1861), written from the standpoint of an Episcopalian, is dry, but concise, clear, fair-minded, and trustworthy. Grub also edited (along with Joseph Robertson) Gordon's \"Scots Affairs\" for the Spalding Club, of which he was one of the founders.\n\n"}
{"id": "12187385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12187385", "title": "Gregorio Leti", "text": "Gregorio Leti\n\nGregorio Leti (1630–1701) was an Italian historian and satirist from Milan, who sometimes published under the pseudonym Abbe Gualdi, L'abbé Gualdi, or Gualdus known for his works about the Catholic Church, especially the papacy. All of his publications were listed on the \"Index Librorum Prohibitorum\".\n\nThe nephew of the Bishop of Acquapendente in Umbria, Leti was educated in a Jesuit school, but later became a Protestant. He resided in the court of Louis XIV of France and in 1680 that of Charles II of England, who commissioned him to write a history of England. Leti had access to the library of the Earl of Anglesey, which numbered over 5,000 volumes, as well as that of Bishop Gilbert Burnet. He wrote the first ever proper life of Elizabeth I of England, which includes many romantic embellishments about her youth and her mother, Anne Boleyn. Nevertheless, he may have used documents he found in the English libraries. Leti was also elected a member of the Royal Society.\n\nAfter the publication of a collection of anecdotes which offended Charles II, \"Il Teatro Britannico\", Leti fled England in 1683 for Amsterdam, where he became the city historiographer in 1685. He died in Amsterdam in 1701.\n\nLeti's biography of Pope Sixtus V has been translated into many languages, and contains an anecdote similar to the infamous \"pound of flesh\" from William Shakespeare's \"The Merchant of Venice\". The \"Catholic Encyclopedia\" calls Leti \"mendacious and inexact\" and is also critical of works described as derivative of Leti's \"anti-papal histories.\" Mosheim, a Lutheran church historian, called Leti \"inaccurate and unfaithful.\" According to Thomas Trollope, \"his inexactitude as an historian is notorious.\" Even secular writers have characterised his biography of Sixtus V as \"resting on very slight authority.\" Among his critics, Leti is sometimes referred to as the \"Varillas of Italy.\"\n\nLeti was the father-in-law of the scholar and theologian Jean Leclerc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47624835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47624835", "title": "Grupos Armados Españoles", "text": "Grupos Armados Españoles\n\nGrupos Armados Españoles (Spanish for \"Spanish Armed Groups\"; GAE) was a Spanish right-wing paramilitary Spanish nationalist and \"parapolicial\" group active from 1979 to 1980, primarily in the Southern Basque Country. A report by the Office for Victims of Terrorism of the Basque Government in June 2010 attributed 6 murders in the Basque Autonomous Community to the group, and linked it to the Spanish police, SECED and Guardia Civil.\n\n\nThe report of the Office of Victims of Terrorism of the Basque Government (2010) said that the GAE was a well organized right-wing group, that \"acted with a high level of tolerance, when no complicity with important sectors of the police apparatus of the time\", while acknowledging that\" and criticized the impunity and lack of investigation about group actions.\n\n"}
{"id": "6399318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6399318", "title": "Gungnae", "text": "Gungnae\n\nGungnae (Korean) or Guonei (Mandarin) City was the second capital of the ancient Korean kingdom of Goguryeo, which was located in Manchuria and the Korean Peninsula. The perimeter of its outer fortress measures 2,686m.\n\nGungnae was chosen to become the capital city by the kingdom's second ruler, King Yuri during the 10th month of the year 3 AD. The city was sacked several times until the rise of the 19th ruler, Gwanggaeto the Great, who greatly expanded Goguryeo's territory and made it a formidable power in northeast Asia. When King Gwanggaeto died in 413, his son, Jangsu of Goguryeo, inherited the throne and moved the capital down to Pyongyang in 427. The city played a central role of the kingdom after the power transfer.\n\nJust before the fall of Goguryeo, Gungnae City fell to the Silla-Tang Chinese alliance when General Yeon Namsaeng, son of Yeon Gaesomun, surrendered the city in 666. Goguryeo fell in 668 when the Tang army captured Pyongyang and took King Bojang and Yeon Namgeon into custody.\n\nGungnae is part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site Capital Cities and Tombs of the Ancient Koguryo Kingdom, together with nearby Wandu Mountain City and the Wunü Mountain City, in modern northeast China.\n"}
{"id": "36264938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36264938", "title": "Hisashi Inoue (historian)", "text": "Hisashi Inoue (historian)\n\nHe received a master's degree from Hitotsubashi University’s department of sociological research and then attained a doctorate in the same field.\n\nHe is the managing director of the “Chūgokujin Sensō Higaisha no Yōkyū wo Sasaeru Kai”, which provides legal support for Chinese victims of Japanese war crimes, and within that organization he heads an executive committee charged with seeking a formal apology and reparations from the Japanese government for the Pingdingshan massacre.\n\nInoue is an active researcher on the Nanjing massacre and believes that more than 100,000 POWs, captured plainclothes guerrillas, and civilians were murdered by the Japanese army in Nanjing city and its vicinity and in the surrounding six counties.\n\nHe and his colleague Akira Fujiwara supervised the first Japanese translation of Iris Chang's \"The Rape of Nanking\" which was not released because Chang refused to change the text in 62 places where Inoue had advised making corrections.\n\n"}
{"id": "3055402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3055402", "title": "Ironmaster", "text": "Ironmaster\n\nAn ironmaster is the manager, and usually owner, of a forge or blast furnace for the processing of iron. It is a term mainly associated with the period of the Industrial Revolution, especially in Great Britain.\n\nThe ironmaster was usually a large scale entrepreneur and thus an important member of a community. He would have a large country house or mansion as his residence. The organization of operations surrounding the smelting, refining and casting of iron was labour-intensive, and so there would be a large number of workers reliant on the furnace works.\n\nThere were ironmasters (possibly not called such) from the 17th century onwards, but they became more prominent with the great expansion in the British iron industry during the Industrial Revolution.\n\nAn early ironmaster was John Winter (about 1600–1676) who owned substantial holdings in the Forest of Dean. During the English Civil War he cast cannons for Charles I. Following the Restoration, Winter developed his interest in the iron industry, and experimented with a new type of coking oven. This was a precursor to the later work of Abraham Darby I who successfully used coke to smelt iron.\n\nThree successive generations of the same family all bearing the name Abraham Darby are renowned for their contributions to the development of the English iron industry. Their works at Coalbrookdale in Shropshire nurtured the start of improvements in metallurgy that allowed large-scale production of the iron that made the development of the steam engine and railways possible, although their most notable innovation was The Iron Bridge.\n\nOne of the best known ironmasters of the early part of the industrial revolution was John Wilkinson (1728–1808), who was considered to have \"iron madness\", extending even to making cast iron coffins.\n\nLowthian Bell (1816–1904) was, like Abraham Darby, the forceful patriarch of an ironmaking dynasty. Both his son Hugh Bell and his grandson Maurice Bell were directors of the Bell iron and steel company. His father, Thomas Bell, was a founder of Losh, Wilson and Bell, an iron and alkali company. The firm had works at Walker, near Newcastle upon Tyne, and at Port Clarence, Middlesbrough, contributing largely to the growth of those towns and of the economy of the northeast of England. Bell accumulated a large fortune, with mansions including Washington New Hall, Rounton Grange near Northallerton, and the mediaeval Mount Grace Priory near Osmotherley.\n\nHenry Bolckow (1806–1878) and John Vaughan (1799–1868) were lifelong business partners, friends, and brothers-in-law. They established what became the largest of all Victorian era iron and steel companies, Bolckow Vaughan, in Middlesbrough. Bolckow brought financial acumen, and Vaughan brought ironmaking and engineering expertise. The two men trusted each other implicitly and \"never interfered in the slightest degree with each other's work. Mr. Bolckow had the entire management of the financial department, while Mr. Vaughan as worthily controlled the practical work of the establishment.\" At its peak the firm was the largest steel producer in Britain, possibly in the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "14306723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14306723", "title": "Ivan Ilchev", "text": "Ivan Ilchev\n\nIvan Ilchev (), Ph.D. in history, is the current rector of Sofia University, the oldest and biggest higher education facility in Bulgaria. He specialized in modern history of the Balkan peoples.\n\nIvan Ilchev was born on June 25, 1953 in Sofia. His father is Ilcho Dimitrov, also a famous historian and former minister of education. His mother is of Jewish descent. Ilchev graduated from the 114 English High School in Sofia. He continued his education in Sofia University, where he graduated in history. After his graduation, in 1978, he became assistant professor at the History Department of the Sofia University and associate professor in 1987. He was awarded the title of professor of modern history of the Balkan Peoples in 1995.\n\nIvan Ilchev has lectured in Ohio State University in Columbus, Wilson Center in Washington D.C., the University of Chiba, Japan, the universities of Leipzig, Thessaloníki, Oxford, Chicago and many other famous universities.\n\nHe was dean of the History Department of Sofia University and member of the Academic Council from 2003 to 2007. Ilchev is also an active member of the Social Council of Bulgarian National Television and the Public Museum Council at the Ministry of Culture.\n\nAt the beginning of November 2007, professor Ilchev was elected rector of the Sofia University, after a ballot, by 218 votes to 90 for the other candidate.\n\nHe is corresponding member of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences.\n\nIvan Ilchev has published 13 books, 2 of them in co-authorship with other academics. The most renowned of them - in Bulgarian, titles translated - are:\n\n\nIlchev Buttress on Graham Land, Antarctica is named after Ivan Ilchev.\n\n"}
{"id": "57322795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57322795", "title": "J. Geraint Jenkins", "text": "J. Geraint Jenkins\n\nJohn Geraint Jenkins (1929 – 15 August 2009), known as J. Geraint Jenkins, was a Welsh maritime historian and historian of rural crafts.\n\nJenkins was born in 1929 into a Welsh-speaking \"seafaring\" family based near Llangrannog in Ceredigion; he attended the village school and Cardigan Grammar School, before completing his university education at the University Colleges of Wales at Swansea and Aberystwyth.\n\nHe graduated from the Aberystwyth in 1950 with a degree in geography and anthropology, and then completed a master's degree there under E. G. Bowen and Alwyn J. Rees. He worked at a museum in Leicester from 1952 to 1953, when he was appointed Assistant Keeper at the Museum of English Rural Life in Reading, which came with a part-time lectureship at the University of Reading (which housed the museum). In 1960, he returned to Wales as Assistant Keeper of the Welsh Folk Museum at St Fagans, and nine years later he secured promotion as Keeper of Material Culture. He then moved in 1977 to the Welsh Industrial and Maritime Museum in Cardiff, to be closer to the sea and his interest in maritime history; he regarded the decade he spent there as the happiest of his career. In 1981, the University of Wales conferred on him a doctor of science degree. But his move back to St Fagans and the Folk Museum in 1987 to be its Curator was less happy, owing in part to clashes with management and what Jenkins regarded as English interference. He retired early in 1992, and moved to Penbryn. He was the High Sheriff of Dyfed in 1994–95 and joined Ceredigion County Council, serving as its Chairman in 2002–03.\n\nJenkins died on 15 August 2009, leaving a widow, Nansi, and two sons, David and Gareth; another son, Richard, had died in 2000. According to his obituary in \"The Independent\", \"Geraint Jenkins played a leading role in the preservation and interpretation of the maritime history of Wales. He published more than 50 books, many to do with the seafaring traditions of west Wales, and was an acknowledged authority on the subject. He also made expert studies of other aspects of Welsh folk life, including traditional farm implements, rural crafts, the woollen industry and Cardiff ship-owners.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "45027170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45027170", "title": "Josef Polišenský", "text": "Josef Polišenský\n\nJosef Vincent Polišenský (1915–2001) was a Czech academic historian and Latin Americanist. He is best known in the English-speaking world for his book \"Tragic Triangle: The Netherlands, Spain and Bohemia, 1617–1621\" (Prague, Charles University, 1991), a study of the international political context of the Bohemian Revolt.\n\nHis earlier study of the Bohemian Revolt, \"The Thirty Years War\", was translated into English by R.J.W. Evans and published in England by B. T. Batsford (1970) and in the U.S. by University of California Press (1971).\n\nHe also wrote a general history of Bohemia, Moravia, Silesia, and Slovakia in a 1947 book, \"History of Czechoslovakia in Outline\".\n\n"}
{"id": "25577755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25577755", "title": "Lauren (perfume)", "text": "Lauren (perfume)\n\nLauren is a perfume made by Ralph Lauren in 1978. The perfume is manufactured by L'Oreal.\n\nThis is a feminine and gracious floral bouquet with green top notes and powdery base of wood and spices. The heart contains the classic trio of rose, carnation and violet. The fragrance also contains wild marigold, rosewood, pineapple, rose with cedarwood, vetiver and carnation.\n"}
{"id": "52265620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52265620", "title": "Liselotte Welskopf-Henrich", "text": "Liselotte Welskopf-Henrich\n\nLiselotte Welskopf-Henrich (born Elisabeth Charlotte Henrich and identified in some sources simply as Elisabeth Charlotte Welskopf: 15 September 1901 - 16 June 1979) was a German novelist and historian of the classical period. As a writer she concerned herself with two distinct cultures: that of Ancient Greece and that of the \"North American Indians\" (as they would have been generally known when Welskopf-Henrich was working). As an East German academic she was an influential authority on Ancient Greece. Away from the university she wrote novels concerned with the North American Indians which became classics of East German children's literature.\n\nAt the age of 10 she wrote a long letter to the Mexican president, urging him to proceed with greater humanity against Yaqui insurgents.\n\nLiselotte Henrich was born in Munich, the child of Rudolf Henrich, a liberal-leaning lawyer, and his wife, born Marie Bernbeck. In 1907 the family moved to Stuttgart, where Liselotte first attended school, and in 1913 they relocated again, now to Berlin. At school she followed a humanist curriculum, passing her school final exams (Abitur) in 1921 as a pupil at the . While still at school she decided to become a writer and historian. As a child her leisure pursuits included mountaineering in the Alps. On leaving school she studied Economics, Ancient History, Jurisprudence and Philosophy at the Frederick-William University (as the \"Humboldt\" was then known) in Berlin. She received her doctorate in 1925 for a piece of work on the organisation of the international shoe trade. The \"cum magna laude\" citation she received for her doctorate supported the urgings of one of her supervisors, Ulrich Wilcken, that she should progress to a habilitation (higher academic qualification) which would have opened the conventional route to an academic career, but the inflation of the early 1920s had left the family finances in no position to support a further period of study. Starting in 1925 she was employed as a statistician in the private sector, before switching to the public sector in 1928. Her father died in 1926. She worked in Berlin as a between 1928 and 1945.\n\nIn 1938 she began to participate in resistance activity, which led her to the Confessing Church. As the realities of the government mandated Shoah became apparent, she supported persecuted Jews and concentration camp inmates with food and medicaments. One victim of Nazi persecution whom she was able to hide from the authorities in her Berlin apartment during 1944/45 was a Communist called , whom she would later marry. Although the precise nature and extent of her resistance activity remain unclear, some details are summarized in her novel \"Jan und Jutta\", published in 1953. In 1944 she was interrogated by the Gestapo but not arrested.\n\nWar ended in May 1945, leaving a large region surrounding Berlin administered as the Soviet occupation zone. She remained in what would later become known as East Berlin. Between May 1945 and July 1946 Welskopf-Henrich worked as a senior secretary with the city administration, based at Berlin-Charlottenburg. In 1946/47 she took on a leadership position with \"Baustoff-Ost GmbH\", a building materials organisation. Through the immediate postwar years much of her work was focused on questions involving economic planning.\n\nIn 1946 she joined the Communist Party (KPD). Sources indicate that this was probably a reaction to the nightmare of Nazi atrocities and the nightmare destruction and military take-over of Berlin involved in the Red army invasion, and not the result of some belated quasi-religious conversion to Marxism. Although she remained uncritical of party rule, in the words of one commentator she was in the first instance not so much a communist as a \"friend of the people\" (\"...in erster Linie nicht Kommunistin, vielmehr Menschenfreundin\"). Her joining the Communist Party may also have been related to her marriage to whose (second) wife she became on 11 May 1946, and who had been a Communist Party member since 1930.\n\nIn April 1946, following the contentious merger that resulted in the creation of the new Socialist Unity Party (\"Sozialistische Einheitspartei Deutschlands\" / SED), Liselotte Welskopf-Henrich was one of the hundreds of thousands of Communist Party members in the Soviet zone who lost no time in signing their party membership across to what rapidly developed to become the ruling party in a new kind of one-party dictatorship. Membership of the SED in 1946 reflected a widespread commitment to the construction of an antifascist democratic society in Germany, a society without exploitation, repression or race-based hatred, committed to social justice and peace. At the time this went hand in hand with a life-long involvement with Marxism. In order better to inform herself, around this time she voluntarily attended level 1 evening classes in Marxism-Leninism.\n\nThe Welskopf-Henrich's son, Rudolf, was born in 1948.\n\nIn 1949 Liselotte Welskopf-Henrich applied to join a scheduled course in Ancient History at the Humboldt University of Berlin. Despite her background as a government economist, she was accepted. Between 1952 and 1960 she was employed as a research assistant at the Humboldt, and was mandated to supervise lectures. She received hr habilitation in 1959 for work on the theme of Leisure as a Problem in the Lives and Thoughts of the Hellenes, from Homer to Aristotle. Intriguingly, the dissertation which she had originally intended to submit was rejected because of its poor quality. It had been based on a collection of quotations from Marx, Engels, Lenin and Stalin on ancient history. The rejected dissertation was nevertheless later published. It is apparent from the rejected text that when she submitted it Welskopf-Heinrich had already moved on from a Stalinist standpoint. Her son, writing much later in the foreword to an edition of \"Bertholds neue Welt\", another book of hers that was published only posthumously, identified the 1956 Soviet invasion of Hungary as a turning point in his mother's ideological position, although her analytical mindset ensured that even before this she was unable to be as uncritical of Soviet-style state \"socialism\" as her husband.\n\nIn January 1960 the Humboldt gave her a lectureship and in October 1960 a professorship in Ancient History. A year later she became the head of the Ancient History department at the Humboldt's General Historical Institute. In June 1964 she became the first woman to be elected a full member of the German Academy of Sciences. In 1966 Welskopf formally retired. She nevertheless retained charge of her university department till 1968 because her intended successor, Johannes Mathwich, had not yet received his anticipated doctorate.\n\nAfter her retirement from the university Welskopf launched herself into a new project, which concerned the Greek \"polis\". Her approach was probably unique. It was structured neither as a conventional East German academic project, nor as a West German equivalent. Instead, she funded it herself and worked on it supported by 60 academics from both East and West Germany along with researchers from other countries. The result was published in four volumes in 1974 as \"Die Hellenistische Polis – Krise – Wandlung – Wirkung\" (\"The Hellenistic Polis - Crisis - Transformation - Functioning\"). She followed up with an even more ambitious project, classifying social classes in Ancient Greece, using inputs by around 100 contributors from 40 countries. This appeared posthumously in seven volumes between 1981 and 1985.\n\nWelskopf-Henrich's academic standing meant that she was able to travel abroad. Her son writes of regular family holiday trips to Hungary after 1956 and to Czechoslovakia after 1968. As her books became more popular at home and her international reputation also grew she was even able to travel beyond the confines of Soviet sponsored fraternal socialism. Between 1963 and 1974 Welskopf-Henrich undertook a succession of trips to the United States and to Canada in order to study the lives and traditions of the Dakota \"Indians\". The scholarly care which enabled her to replace popular stereotypes with a more \"human face\" for the north American indigenous peoples led to her being honoured with the soubriquet \"Lakota-Tashina\" (literally: \"protective cover of the Lakota\").\n\nOn 16 June 1979 Liselotte Welskopf-Henrich died suddenly in Garmisch-Partenkirchen, close to the mountains where she had spent her holidays as a child. She was 77. She had been predeceased by her husband earlier that year. They are buried together in .\n\nApplying academic discipline, Liselotte Welskopf-Henrich's \"North American Indian\" novels were able to appeal to an intellectually minded readership by combining research based context with imagination driven plots, targeted in the first instance on younger readers. She also composed the original filmscript for the 1966 film The Sons of Great Bear, a film adaption of her six part novel . The DEFA film, starring Gojko Mitić, turned out to be the first in a long and successful series of films on the \"North American Indian\" theme. Her \"North American Indian\" quintet \"Das Blut des Adlers\" (\"Blood of the Eagle\") was also extremely popular in the German Democratic Republic.\n\nHer novel \"Zwei Freunde\" (\"Two Friends\") concerned the Weimar Republic and the early manifestations of Naziism. The book was actually written in 1943. \"Jan und Jutta\" was in most respects an autobiographical account of her own experiences (as \"Jutta\") and those of the man who later became her husband (as \"Jan\") during the final years of the Second World War. She intended to continue the series with her postwar work \"Bertolds neue Welt\" (\"Bertold's new world\"), but abandoned that idea. She probably sensed that her critical perspective of developments in the German Democratic Republic would make such books unsuitable for publication. \"Bertolds neue Welt\" was eventually published only in 2015.\n\nIn 1954 her story \"Der Bergführer\" (\"The Mountain Guide\") was published in Leipzig by . It concerned Karl Unteregger, a young mountain guide working in the Dolomites in 1939. The narrative deals with nazism but also captures the dramatic mountain landscape. Its publication scheduled for 1950, the story had to be changed for political reasons, which led to historical discrepancies. The book met with little success at the time, and it was only in 2015 that it was reissued, now faithful to the original manuscript.\n"}
{"id": "77970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77970", "title": "List of treaties", "text": "List of treaties\n\nThis list of treaties contains known historic agreements, pacts, peaces, and major contracts between states, armies, governments, and tribal groups.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32752654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32752654", "title": "Lycurgeia", "text": "Lycurgeia\n\nThe Lycurgeia (, \"Lykoúrgeia\") is a lost tetralogy by the Athenian dramatist Aeschylus that concerned Thracian Lycurgus' conflict with Dionysus and its aftermath. The four plays that made up the \"Lycurgeia\" survive only in fragments quoted by ancient authors, and the reconstruction of much of their content is a matter of conjecture. In the Edoni (, \"Ēdōnoí\"), Dionysus presumably arrived in Thrace where King Lycurgus attempted to suppress the worship of the new god. The second play, the Bassarids (, \"Bassarídes\"), is supposed to have treated the death of Orpheus at the hands of Thracian women in the thrall of Dionysus. Very little is known of the third play, the Youths (, \"Neaniskoí\"), but M.L. West has proposed that it culminated in the acceptance of the cult of Dionysus in Thrace. The satyr play was named Lycurgus (, \"Lykoûrgos\") after the king, and might have presented his attempt to domesticate the satyrs, civilizing their bestial nature and forcing them to perform at his feasts in \"honour not of Dionysus, but of himself and Ares.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "746699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=746699", "title": "Michael Freund (German historian)", "text": "Michael Freund (German historian)\n\nMichael Freund (1902-1972) was German historian and Professor at the University of Kiel.\n\nFreund's view was that Louis Napoleon was the only real revolutionist in 1848. Freund wrote, \"After the solemn republican respectablity of 1848 it seemed that only with the Napoleonic experiment did a great revolutionary élan appear on the stage of history\". \"The state created by Napoleon was anti-socialist, but it was not the laissez-faire state of capitalism. The social ideals of the disciples of Saint-Simon were given by Napoleon, for the first time, a military and authoritarian aspect.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "12555391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12555391", "title": "Monmu period", "text": "Monmu period\n\nThe Monmu period is a chronological timeframe during the Asuka period of Japanese history. The Mommu period describes a span of years which were considered to have begun in the 1357th year of the Yamato dynasty.\n\nThis periodization is consistent with the traditional dates asserted for the reign of Emperor Monmu, from 697 through 707.\n\nThe adoption of the Sexagenary cycle calendar (\"Jikkan Jūnishi\") in Japan is attributed to Empress Suiko in 604; and this Chinese calendar continued in use throughout the Mommu period.\n\nIn 645, the system of was introduced. However, after the reign of Emperor Kōtoku, this method of segmenting time was temporarily abandoned or allowed to lapse. This interval continued during the Monmu period.\n\nNeither Empress Mommu's reign nor the Monmu periodization are included in the list of \"nengō\" for this explicit duration of time, which comes after Suchō and before Taihō.\n\nIn the post-Taika or pre-Taihō chronology, the first year of Emperor Monmu's reign (文武天皇元年 or 文武統皇1年) is also construed as the first year of the Mommu period (文武1年).\n\nNon-nengō periods in the pre-Taihō calendar were published in 1880 by William Bramsen. These were refined in 1952 by Paul Tsuchihashi in \"Japanese Chronological Tables from 601 to 1872.\"\n\nThe pre-Tahiō calendar included two non-nengō gaps or intervals in the chronological series:\nNengō were not promulgated (or were allowed to lapse) during the gap years between Hakuchi and Shuchō, and in another gap between Shuchō and Taihō.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17886391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17886391", "title": "Nikolai Baskakov (linguist)", "text": "Nikolai Baskakov (linguist)\n\nNikolai Aleksandrovich Baskakov (; 1905-1995) was a Russian Turkologist, linguist, and ethnologist. He created a systematization model of the Turkic language family (Baskakov's classification), and studied Turkic-Russian contacts in the 10-11th centuries CE. During 64 years of scientific work (1930-1994), Baskakov published almost 640 works including 32 books. The main area of Baskakov's scientific interests was linguistics, but he also studied folklore and ethnography of the Turkic peoples, and also was a musician and composer.\n\nBaskakov was born in 1905 in Solvychegodsk in Vologda Governorate (now Arkhangelsk Oblast) in a large family of a district government official. His father came from a family banished in the beginning of the 19th century from Saint Petersburg to the Vologda province, and mother was a daughter of an official and a teacher. In a book about Russian surnames of Turkic origin (1979) Baskakov gives the following comment about his surname: \"Surname \"Baskakov\" comes from a Tatar baskak, Amragan (*Amyr-khan), a viceroy in the second half of the 13th century in Vladimir. The Turkic origin of this surname is confirmed by the very root of the surname \"basqaq\" \"the one who puts seal, a viceroy of the Khan of the Golden Horde\", and by the heraldic data: a curved sword in the center and an image of a Tatar over the crest who is holding a red curved saber\" (p. 245).\n\nAs a young student, in 1916, Baskakov met an old friend of his father's, Bessonov, a Russian dragoman or envoy to Jedda (then part of the Ottoman Empire). The Russian diplomat's stories about eastern countries affected young Baskakov's imagination. He took a great interest in the East, and Turkey in particular. He began reading about Turkey and even tried to study the Turkish language by himself. In N.Baskakov's words, \"This pursuit probably affected choice of my speciality - Turkology, which my father later named \"missionary work\", or maybe my speciality was prompted by the genes of my ancestors, Turks or Mongols?\".\n\nIn 1918, when Baskakov was attending the gymnasium in the town Gryazov, he took part in a piano class at Gryazov's musical school. From that time music accompanied him throughout his life. Post-revolutionary shocks of 1920s immediately tested the vicissitudes of life, from 1919 to 1922. While studying in a unified labor school reorganized from his gymnasium, N.Baskakov worked as an ordinary clerk, and as a draftsman in the public health department. In 1922 N.Baskakov graduated from high school and went to Gryazov pedagogical school, but the aspirations to become an Orientalist did not leave him.\n\nIn 1923 Baskakov came to Moscow to enter the Moscow Institute of Oriental Studies. He naively entered in a questionnaire that he sympathized with \"anarchists-collectivists\" group that had just joined Russian Communist Party (Bolshevik), and on the first interview was refused admittance. After that, without hesitation, he turned to a private Institute of the Word headed by Musin-Pushkin, now a Linguistics Institute of the Russian Academy of Science. But unable to meet the payments, he had to leave Moscow and to return to Vologda, to work in pedagogical school. At the start of 1924 Baskakov was dismissed first from his pedagogical school, and then from Vologda pedagogical school, for participation in an anti-religious dispute where he advocated that God is good, and the Satan is evil, and that God always wins, and that people need religion.\n\nBaskakov fled to Ukraine, near Cherkassy, and earned living as a tutor. In 1924, Baskakov went to Leningrad and attempted to enter the Oriental Institute, but failed again. A third attempt was a success, Baskakov was accepted to the San-Gali State Institute of People's Education. San-Gali State Institute was a two-year educational institution that was preparing teachers for high school. A number of prominent \"former people\" found shelter there.\n\nIn 1925, Baskakov was admitted to the Moscow State University Ethnographic branch of the Historical Ethnological faculty. During his study Baskakov traveled to Karakalpak ASSR, Kazakhstan, Kirgizia and Khorezm area of Uzbekistan to gather material on Uigurs, Kirghiz and Kazakh languages, ethnography, language and folklore of Karakalpaks and Khorezm Uzbeks. His instructors were A.N. Maksimov, P.F. Preobrajensky, V.K. Trutovsky, M.N. Peterson, V.A. Gordlevsky, folklore also the literature, N.K. Dmitriev, and Vasily Bartold lectured on history of Central Asia and Jeti-su Türks.\n\nIn 1929 Baskakov graduated from the University with a degree in history, archeology, ethnography, languages, folklore and literature of Türkic peoples. Baskakov was retained by the faculty of Turkic philology, with additional duties at the Central Ethnographical Museum, and continued expeditions to the Karakalpak ASSR, and Khorezm. In 1930, Baskakov was sent to Karakalpak ASSR regional department of national education to chair a committee to institute a transitional Latin alphabet for the Karakalpak people, to substitute for their traditional Arabic alphabet. In 1930-1931, Baskakov helped to organize the Karakalpak Regional Museum and a Scientific Institute.\n\nIn 1931, Baskakov returned to Moscow and joined Linguistic Commission of Research Association for National (ethnic) and Colonial problems at the Communist University of Eastern Workers (CUEW), and became a docent of CUEW. In 1934 Baskakov was appointed to the Russian SFSR Central Committee of New Alphabet (CCNA) and sent to Kazakhstan, Kirgizia and Oirot (present Mountain Altai) to study problems of \"language construction\" in the native schools. N.Baskakov was sent to all territories populated by Nogais (Astrakhan, Dagestan ASSR, Krasnodar, Crimea ASSR) with an aim to \"create\" a \"Nogai literary language\" with a new quasi-Cyrillic alphabet.\n\nIn 1936, Baskakov became a docent of Uigur language faculty in the Moscow Institute of Oriental Studies, later a Language and Literacy Institute of USSR peoples. In 1938, as a reward for his publications, Baskakov became a PhD in Philology without writing a thesis dissertation. In 1939-1940, Baskakov worked on country-wide transitioning of the Türkic peoples from the Arabic to a slew of quasi-Cyrillic alphabets, visiting Kazan, Ufa, Tashkent and Alma-Ata. During World War II, Baskakov was sent to Oirot (Altaians). Living in Altai enabled Baskakov to collect rich material on dialects and folklore of Altaians across their land. In 1943, Baskakov returned to Moscow to work in N. Ya. Marr Institute of Language and Thinking of the USSR Academy of Sciences. In that institution, under its many different names, Baskakov worked for almost 50 years. He visited Lithuania, Northern Caucasus, Turkmenia and Khakassia helping to establish new scientific institutions. In 1950, Baskakov wrote a dissertation themed \"Karakalpak language. Parts of speech and word-formation\" for the Doctor of Philology degree. In 1989, Baskakov retired from active work, but continued voluntary work, and remained a chief scientist in the Karakalpak branch of the Uzbek SSR Academy of Sciences.\n\nBaskakov was an honorary member of the Great Britain Royal Asian society, Turkish linguistic society, International Uralo-Altai society (Hamburg), Scientific organization of Polish Orientalists, Scientific organization of Hungarian Orientalists Kereshi-Choma, a corresponding member of Finno-Ugric society (Helsinki).\n\nRetirement allowed Baskakov to work on collected material and publications. Before the beginning of the 20th century, few Türkic languages were studied and reflected in dictionaries and grammar books, without which was impossible to teach languages or conduct constructive research. Baskakov actively joined in creation of lexicographical and grammatical works for poorly studied and totally unknown major Türkic languages.\n\nStudying a number of Türkic languages simultaneously, Baskakov evaluated the degree of their genetic affinity, and learned the principles of Türkic typology, which eventually resulted in creation of a synthesizing concept, a new classification of Türkic languages. First published in 1952, the Baskakov taxonomical classification, unlike the previous classifications built on limited number of linguistic attributes, accounted for grammatical system and lexical structure of the Türkic languages as a whole, coordinating formation of separate language groups with the history of their peoples.\n\nBaskakov's classification of Türkic languages was published twice as a textbook \"Introduction to study of Türkic languages\" (1962 and 1969), and is well known to the Türkologists of the world. Baskakov's classification remains the only classification built with understanding of the history of the Türkic peoples known at the time.\n\nFrom the end of the 1970s Baskakov developed a typological model of the grammatical system of Türkic languages. Baskakov developed a complete concept of Türkic language type, described in three monographs, \"Historical structural typology of Türkic languages\" (1975), \"Historical typological morphology of Türkic languages\" (1979), and \"Historical typological phonology of Türkic languages\" (1988). Baskakov's concept recognized isomorphism of all language levels, from the top syntax level.\nFrom the end of the 1970s, Baskakov developed a typological model of the grammatical system of Türkic languages. Baskakov's concept on the most ancient typological structure of Türkic languages found \"hypothetically initial pre-agglutinative form of Türkic, where abstract grammatical constructions were formed from main roots in postposition, and were gradually transformed to analytical elements, and then to affixes of the synthetic form\".\n\nEven though typologically the languages of the Altai family are related, their genetic relationship is contested. Baskakov advocated a genetic relationship of Türkic, Mongolian, Tunguso-Manchurian, Korean and Japanese languages.\n\nBy the end of the 1930s, Baskakov published works on Karakalpak, Uigur and Nogai languages. Baskakov participated in creation of the first bilingual Türkic-Russian and Russian-Türkic dictionaries for Uigur (1939), Altay (1947), and Khakass (1953), and headed the creation of Russian-Uigur (1941), Nogai-Russian (1963), Russian-Altai (1964), Russian-Karakalpak (1967) and Turkmen-Russian (1968) dictionaries. Baskakov participated in creation of first trilingual dictionaries for Türkic languages, Gagauz-Russian-Moldavian (1973), Karaim-Russian-Polish (1974). Publication of trilingual dictionaries was preceded by two his publications that established main principles of composing trilingual dictionaries (1968, 1971). The Uigur, Altai, Khakass, and Nogai dictionaries had brief grammatical descriptions of the languages.\n\nBaskakov's first description of grammar in Türkic languages was published in \"Brief grammar of Karkalpak language\" (Turtkul, 1932). It was continued in subsequent works \"Nogai language and its dialects\" (1940) and \"Karakalpak language, vol. 2. Phonetics and morphology\" (1952). Baskakov continues traditions of Türkic grammar represented in popular Altai grammar and in grammatical works of P.L. Melioransky and V.L. Gordlevsky. Baskakov published dialectal material, a series \"Northern dialects of Altai (Oirot) language\" in three parts, \"Dialect of taiga Tatars (Tuba-Kiji)\" (1966), \"Dialect of Kumandy-kiji\" (1972), \"Dialect of Kuu Tatars-Chelkans (Kuu-kiji)\" (1985) (\"Türkic\" \"kiji\" = \"people\", a frequent ethnonym-forming suffix). The descriptions have shown full linguistic independence of these little-known languages.\n\nBaskakov wrote a series of historical etymological works about the names of the Türkic peoples and tribes (Kypchaks, Kirghizes, Bashkirs, Kumans, Badjanks, Tuvinians, Khakases), edited epic publications of Türkic peoples (Altai heroic epos \"Madai-kara\", Khakass heroic epos \"Altyn-Aryg\"). In 1991, Baskakov composed the national hymn of the republic Karakalpakistan and hymn of Mountain Altai republic.\n\nIn the 1990s, after the fall of the former USSR and the opening of communication channels from it to the world, there surfaced criticism from the Turkish scholars, who advocated existence of only three languages inside Türkic family: Turkish, Chuvash and Sakha (Yakut), while the others are not languages, but dialects with very close affinity, artificially divided and segregated into languages, splitting the uniform Türkic world. Baskakov's position was that the Türkic world is not divided, but consists of living languages that develop into independent vernaculars. At the beginning of the 20th century, the majority of Türkic peoples had their individuality, in addition to the territory each ethnos had its history, consciousness and self-name, culture, folklore, and language, some peoples had their own literary form, with rich old tradition of literature, and a system of their subordinated dialects, and the affinity among them is not dialectal, but linguistical.\n\nThe process of separation of Türkic languages also continues now in different conditions, in 1978 was introduced literacy at Dolgans, in 1989 introduced at Tofalars, Siberian Tatars are on the way to introduce their literacy. Each people resolves this subject for themselves. In these conditions the existing peoples and languages of Türkic family should be carefully preserved as rare gifts of the nature, and should be given full opportunity to develop, while Turkish language, the largest language of the Türkic family with immense literature and long history, can be used as a language of interethnic dialogue.\n\n"}
{"id": "5586623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5586623", "title": "Northern Region Film and Television Archive", "text": "Northern Region Film and Television Archive\n\nThe North East Film Archive (NEFA) is a not-for-profit organisation which exists to collect, preserve and provide access to film, television and other moving image material related to the history of a region of England, which is defined as the Tees Valley area and the counties of Durham, Northumberland and Tyne and Wear. Since July 2012 the archive merged with The YFA(Yorkshire Film Archive), a registered charity (no. 1093468), and now comes under the YFA Banner and charity, Hence the name change to NEFA.\n\nThe NEFA was founded in January 1998 as an unofficial consortium of four bodies which already held substantial film and television collections within the region: what was then the University of Teesside (now Teesside University), Tyne and Wear Archives Service (TWAS, the county record office for Tyne and Wear), Trade Films (see below) and Cumbria Archives Service (the county record office for Cumbria). Initial funding was provided by Northern Arts (what was then the UK Government's regional agency for distributing public arts funding in the north-east of England), and the organisation began life with a full-time curator and a part-time archivist. In 2001, responsibility for distributing core funding to the English regional film archives passed from Northern Arts to the newly formed UK Film Council's regional agency, Northern Film and Media. A temperature and humidity controlled vault facility was built for the NEFA on the Teesside campus during 2003, and was formally opened the following year. In December 2003, NRFTA Ltd. was formed as a company limited by guarantee (no. 04994213), thus making the archive an independent legal entity. In February 2006, responsibility for providing a moving image archive service to Cumbria passed from the NRFTA to the North West Film Archive. As of February 2010 the NEFA has a staff of two (one full-time and one part-time), both of whom are based at Teesside University. The NEFA is one of a network of eight regional film archives in England. It is an 'emerging archive' member institution of the UK Film Archive Forum.In July 2012, NEFA merged with the Yorkshire Film Archive (YFA), a registered charity (no. 1093468), and now comes under the YFA banner and charity. Together,they have a growing collection currently containing over 50,000 titles - 17,000 held by YFA, and 33,000 held by NEFA - ranging from films made by the early film pioneers of the late 1890s, to recent footage of changing landscapes and life across both regions.\n\nThe NEFA is based at Teesside University in Middlesbrough, where most of the collection is stored. Limited storage facilities are also operated at Tyne and Wear Archives Service in Newcastle upon Tyne as well, but all work on the collection now takes place at Teesside. Viewing facilities for members of the public are available at Newcastle, but preservation and cataloguing work no longer takes place there. As with any archive, the NEFA undertakes three core activities.\n\n\nThe NEFA is funded from a combination of sources, including public money, revenue from commercial footage licensing to broadcasters (all other paid-for services are charged on a cost-covering basis) and 'in kind' contributions from its constituent organisations, principally Teesside University and Tyne and Wear Archives Service. The NEFA's work is overseen by a board of directors, and its permanent staff are all employees of Teesside University.\n\nThe collection policies of the English regional film archives are all broadly similar. They do not collect fictional feature films or TV programmes produced outside their regions and/or intended for network broadcast: this is the responsibility of the National Film and Television Archive. The NEFA's collection consists mainly of regional TV news and regionally produced network output, industrial, promotional, educational and advertising films, and amateur film and video. Among its major collections are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "325617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=325617", "title": "Ochlocracy", "text": "Ochlocracy\n\nOchlocracy (; ) or mob rule is the rule of government by mob or a mass of people, or, the intimidation of legitimate authorities. As a pejorative for majoritarianism, it is akin to the meaning \"the fickle crowd\", from which the English term \"mob\" originally was derived in the 1680s.\n\nOchlocracy is synonymous in meaning and usage to the modern, informal term \"mobocracy\", which arose in the 18th century as a colloquial neologism.\n\nOchlocracy, or mob rule, is often incorrectly equated with tyranny of the majority; however, ochlocracy involves illegal action and does not necessitate a majority and usually consists of a minority.\n\nPolybius appears to have coined the term in his 2nd century BC work \"Histories\" (6.4.6). He uses it to name the \"pathological\" version of popular rule—in opposition to the good version, which he refers to as democracy. There are numerous mentions of the word \"ochlos\" in the Talmud (where \"ochlos\" refers to anything from \"mob\", \"populace\", to \"armed guard\"), as well as in Rashi, a Jewish commentary on the Bible. The word is recorded in English since 1584, derived from the French \"ochlocratie\" (1568), which stems from the original Greek \"okhlokratia\", from \"okhlos\" (\"mob\") and \"kratos\" (meaning \"rule, power, strength\").\n\nAncient Greek political thinkers regarded ochlocracy as one of the three \"bad\" forms of government (tyranny, oligarchy, and ochlocracy) as opposed to the three \"good\" forms of government (monarchy, aristocracy, and democracy). They distinguished \"good\" and \"bad\" according to whether the government form would act in the interest of the whole community (\"good\") or in the exclusive interests of a group or individual at the expense of justice (\"bad\").\n\nThis (Polybian) terminology for forms of state in ancient Greek philosophy has become customary. Aristotle termed democracy as \"polity\" (sometimes translated as \"republic\", which confusingly is used by other Aristotle-translators for \"aristocracy\", instead) while giving the name of \"democracy\" to ochlocracy.\n\nAn ochlocrat is one who is an advocate or partisan of ochlocracy. It also may be used as an adjective (ochlocratic or ochlocratical).\n\nThe threat of \"mob rule\" to a democracy is restrained by ensuring that the rule of law protects minorities or individuals against short-term demagoguery or moral panic. Although considering how laws in a democracy are established or repealed by the majority, the protection of minorities by rule of law is questionable. Some authors, like Bosnian political theoretician Hasanović, connect the emergence of ochlocracy in democratic societies with the decadence of democracy in neoliberalism where \"the democratic role of the people has been reduced mainly to the electoral process\".\n\nAnarchism, meaning \"without rulers\", is a term covering various anti-authoritarian philosophies and movements which are egalitarian and socialist, which are dedicated to the replacement of states and/or governments (either capitalist governments or all governments) by various suggested alternatives such as autonomous self-realizing direct-democratic structures. Anarchism is not ochlocratic but to the contrary includes theories of structure and mutual support rooted in direct democracy and free association.\n\nHistorians often comment on mob rule as a factor in the rise of Rome and its maintenance, as the city of Rome itself was large—between 100,000 and 250,000 citizens—while the aristocracy and even military was very small by comparison to the citizenry. Lapses in this control often led to loss of official power (and often enough, the lives of the officials)—most notably in the reign of Commodus when Cleander unwisely used the Praetorian Guard against a mob which had come to call for his head. As historian Edward Gibbon relates it:\n\nThis followed a previous incident in which the legions of Britain had demanded and received the death of Perennis, the prior administrator. The mob thus realized that it had every chance of success.\n\nThe Salem Witch Trials in colonial Massachusetts during the 1690s, in which the unified belief of the townspeople overpowered the logic of the law, also has been cited as an example of mob rule.\n\nIn 1837 Abraham Lincoln wrote about lynching and \"the increasing disregard for law which pervades the country—the growing disposition to substitute the wild and furious passions in lieu of the sober judgment of courts, and the worse than savage mobs for the executive ministers of justice\".\n\nMob violence played a prominent role in the early history of the Latter Day Saint movement. Examples include the expulsions from Missouri, the Haun's Mill massacre, the death of Joseph Smith, the expulsion from Nauvoo, the murder of Joseph Standing, and the Cane Creek Massacre. In a 1857 speech, Brigham Young gave an address demanding military action against \"mobocrats\".\n\n"}
{"id": "47382210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47382210", "title": "Ooni Lajodoogun", "text": "Ooni Lajodoogun\n\nOoni Lajodoogun was the 9th Ooni of Ife, a paramount traditional ruler of Ile Ife, the ancestral home of the Yorubas. He succeeded Ooni Lajamisan and was succeeded by \nOoni Lafogido.\n"}
{"id": "26637741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26637741", "title": "Padmavathy Bandopadhyay", "text": "Padmavathy Bandopadhyay\n\nPadmavathy Bandopadhyay (born 4 November 1944) is the first woman Air Marshal of the Indian Air Force. She is the second woman in the Indian armed forces to be promoted to a three-star rank.\n\nBandopadhyay was born in 1944 at Tirupathi, Andhra Pradesh. Her mother was bedridden with tuberculosis, and Padma ended up being her primary caregiver at the age of 4-5 years. In addition, her neighbor in the Gole Market neighborhood in New Delhi was Dr S.I. Padmavati, Professor of Medicine at Lady Hardinge Medical College. She has said that her experience with her mother’s illness and hospitalization at Safdarjung Hospital and having a neighboring lady doctor with the same name as her were early motivations to become a doctor.\n\nShe studied at DTEA in the Humanities stream. After graduating from school, she made the difficult and uncommon transition from Humanities to Science stream in Delhi University. She studied Pre-medical at Kirori Mal College and then joined Armed Forces Medical College, Pune in 1963.\n\nShe joined the IAF in 1968. She married S. N. Bandopadhyay, a fellow air force officer . She was awarded the Vishisht Seva Medal (VSM) for her conduct during the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971. Sati Nath and Padma were the first IAF couple to receive a Presidents award in the same investiture parade .\n\nIn her career she has been first woman to become a Fellow of the Aerospace Medical Society of India and the first Indian woman to have conducted scientific research at the North Pole . She is also the first woman Armed Forces officer to have completed the Defence Service Staff College course in 1978 . She was the Director General Medical Services (Air) at the Air Headquarters . In 2002, she became the first woman to be promoted to Air Vice Marshal (two-star rank). Bandopadhyay is an aviation medicine specialist and a member of the New York Academy of Sciences.\n\n"}
{"id": "26561466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26561466", "title": "Pakistan's role in the War on Terror", "text": "Pakistan's role in the War on Terror\n\nPakistan's role in the War on Terror is a widely discussed topic among policy-makers of various countries, political analysts and international delegates around the world. Pakistan has simultaneously received allegations of harbouring and aiding terrorists and commendation for its anti-terror efforts.\n\nAt least 60,000 people have been killed in Pakistan due to terror attacks since the beginning of the war on terror, while the economic losses have been measured at $120 billion. Since 2001, the country has also hosted millions of Afghan refugees who fled the war in Afghanistan.\n\nThe Saudi born Zayn al-Abidn Muhammed Hasayn Abu Zubaydah, was arrested by Pakistani officials during a series of joint U.S. and Pakistan raids during the week of 23 March 2002. During the raid, the suspect was shot three times while trying to escape capture by military personnel. Zubaydah is said to be a high-ranking al-Qaeda official with the title of operations chief and in charge of running al-Qaeda training camps.\n\nLater that year on 11 September 2002, Ramzi bin al-Shibh was arrested in Pakistan after a three-hour gunfight with police forces. Bin al-Shibh is known to have shared a room with Mohamed Atta in Hamburg, Germany and to be a financial backer of al-Qaeda operations.\n\nIt is said bin al-Shibh was supposed to be another hijacker, however the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services rejected his visa application three times, leaving him to the role of financier. The trail of money transferred by bin al-Shibh from Germany to the United States links both Mohammad Atta and Zacarias Moussaoui.\n\nOn 1 March 2003, Khalid Shaikh Mohammed was arrested during CIA-led raids on the suburb of Rawalpindi, nine miles outside of the Pakistani capital of Islamabad. Mohammed at the time of his capture was the third highest-ranking official in al-Qaeda and had been directly in charge of the planning for the 11 September attacks.\n\nMohammed having escaped capture the week before during a previous raid, the Pakistani government was able to use information gathered from other suspects captured to locate and detain him. Mohammed was indicted in 1996 by the United States government for links to the Oplan Bojinka, a plot to bomb a series of U.S. civilian airliners.\n\nOther events Mohammed has been linked to include: ordering the killing of Wall Street Journal reporter Daniel Pearl, the USS Cole bombing, Richard Reid's attempt to blow up a civilian airliner with a shoe bomb, and the terrorist attack at the El Ghriba synagogue in Djerba, Tunisia. Khalid Shaikh Mohammed has described himself as the head of the al-Qaeda military committee.\n\nAmidst all this, in 2006, Pakistan was accused by NATO commanding officers of aiding and abetting the Taliban in Afghanistan; but NATO later admitted that there was no known evidence against the ISI or Pakistani government of sponsoring terrorism.\n\nThe Afghan government also accuses the ISI of providing help to militants including protection to the recently killed Mullah Dadullah, Taliban's senior military commander, a charge denied by the Pakistani government. India, meanwhile continues to accuse Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence of planning several terrorist attacks in Kashmir and elsewhere in the Indian republic, including the 11 July 2006 Mumbai train bombings, which Pakistan alleges is due to \"homegrown\" insurgencies. Many other countries like Afghanistan and the UK have also accused Pakistan of State-sponsored terrorism and financing terrorism.\n\nThe upswing in American military activity in Pakistan and neighbouring Afghanistan corresponded with a great increase in American military aid to the Pakistan government. In the three years before the attacks of 11 September, Pakistan received approximately $9 million in American military aid.\n\nIn the three years after, the number increased to $4.2 billion, making it the country with the maximum funding post 9/11. Such a huge inflow of funds has raised concerns that these funds were given without any accountability, as the end uses not being documented, and that large portions were used to suppress civilians' human rights and to purchase weapons to contain domestic problems like the Balochistan unrest.\n\nIn December of 2016, \"The Spectato\"r reported that Pakistan is winning its war on terror. The article reported the major steps taken by the Nawaz Sharif, during his third term as the Prime Minister of Pakistan, which has resulted in an overall drop in violence.\n\n\"The Guardian\" reported that in 2016, Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of India referred to Pakistan as the \"mothership of terrorism\", as part of a reprised campaign to increase international pressure on Pakistan for allegedly harboring and supporting militant groups.\n\nIn August 2017, \"The Guardian\" reported that as part of a new US strategy in Afghanistan by the Trump administration, more pressure was to be put on Pakistan over alleged support for insurgent groups, with President Trump saying in a televised statement that \"we can no longer be silent about Pakistan's safe havens for terrorist organisations, the Taliban and other groups that pose a threat to the region and beyond.\" The new strategy was supported by Afghan government officials, a spokesman for the Afghan president said that \"this is the first time the US government is coming with a very clear-cut message to Pakistan to either stop what you're doing or face the negative consequences.\" Pakistani security officials rejected the statements, stating, \"They are shifting blame to Pakistan\" and \"Pakistan itself is the victim of terrorism. We are fighting militants and have conducted many ground and aerial operations and destroyed their sanctuaries. We want to eradicate them physically and ideologically.\". As part of a regional approach, Trump said he would encourage India to play more of a role (whom are already providing economic and humanitarian aid to Afghanistan), former officials and analysts have pointed out that the fear of a greater Indian presence in Afghanistan was the justification used by Pakistan's military and intelligence leaders to maintain backing for Afghan militants, as a buffer against Indian influence.\n\nWith the logistics and air support of the United States, the Pakistani Army captured or killed numerous al-Qaeda operatives such as Khalid Shaikh Mohammed.\n\nIn 2009, a politically instable Pakistan emerged as a new global hub for anti-West militancy, but, because of the constant threat of US attacks, recruits were reportedly more likely to spend their time under instruction and in training than carrying out assertive action. In his report on the matter, focusing on an alarming influx of European extremists, \"Reuters\" security correspondent William Maclean wrote,\n\nHe added that the matter was likely to surface in a meeting on 6 May between United States President Barack Obama, Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari and Afghan President Hamid Karzai, the first-mentioned looking to bring an end to the employment of Pakistan's tribal zones as a launching pad for al Qaeda activity around the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "28084389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28084389", "title": "Peter Fibiger Bang", "text": "Peter Fibiger Bang\n\nPeter Fibiger Bang (born 25 June 1973) is a Danish comparative historian. Bang's main research interests are Roman economic history and imperial power, historical sociology and world history, as well as the reception of Classical culture in later ages.\n\nBorn in Horsens, Denmark, in 1973, Bang studied History, Latin and Greek at the University of Aarhus from 1992 to 1999. In 1997, he was a visitor at the University of Leicester, where he studied Roman Archaeology. In 1999, he moved to Corpus Christi College, University of Cambridge, to work on his PhD in the Faculty of Classics. During the autumn of 2001, he was a visitor at the University of Chicago. \n\nIn 2002, Bang was appointed assistant professor in the department of history at the University of Copenhagen before defending his PhD in Cambridge in the summer of 2003. In 2005, he was made associate professor in Copenhagen and during the same year he initiated and was elected chair of a European-based research network, \"Tributary Empires Compared\", to stimulate historical comparison between the Roman, Mughal and Ottoman Empires. This network was funded by COST till 2009. During his employment in Copenhagen, Bang has been a visiting professor at the University of Tübingen in summer 2004 and at the University of Heidelberg in summer 2011; a research leave in 2007 allowed him another stay in Cambridge, this time associated with King's College. \n\nBang has authored, edited or co-edited nine volumes as of December 2012, as well as written a substantial number of articles, chapter contributions, reviews and essays. In addition to his academic activities, Bang writes on an occasional basis for the Danish newspaper, Weekendavisen. \n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "26832607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26832607", "title": "Post–World War II air-to-air combat losses", "text": "Post–World War II air-to-air combat losses\n\nAir-to-air combat is the engagement of flying machines in warfare in which one or more aircraft tries to destroy one or more other aircraft. The Korean War saw the greatest amount of air-to-air combat since World War II. During the war the United States claimed to have shot down around 700 fighters. After the war the USAF reviewed its figures in an investigation code-named \"Sabre Measure Charlie\" and downgraded the kill ratio of the North American F-86 Sabre against the Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-15 by half from 14:1 to 7:1. One of the factors inflating US numbers was that most dogfights took place over enemy-controlled area. The only way to confirm kills was through gun camera photography. USAF pilots were credited with a kill if the gun camera showed their guns striking the enemy aircraft even if no one actually saw it go down. However, Soviet kill claims were also highly exaggerated, based upon inherent flaws in their film grading procedures. For instance, the S-13 gun camera was not aligned with either the gunsight or either cannons' ballistics. It ran only while the firing buttons were depressed. Film graders commonly included unit commanders and political commisars who would confirm a \"kill\"—sometimes even if one had not been claimed by a pilot—when the camera's crosshairs touched the target for two movie frames. During the first 16 months of combat Soviet V-VS units claimed 218 F-86s destroyed when only 36 (35 to the two elite IADs and one to the 50th IAD) had been lost. This results in a 600 per cent inflation rate in victory credits over actual Sabres destroyed.\n\nThe Vietnam War saw a move away from cannon fire to air-to-air missiles. Although US forces maintained air supremacy throughout the war, there were still occasional dogfights and several US aces. The North Vietnamese side claimed the Vietnam People's Air Force had 17 aces throughout the war, including Nguyen Van Coc, who is also the top ace of Vietnam War with 9 kills: seven acknowledged by the United States Air Force.\n\nDuring the 1947 conflict over Jammu and Kashmir, the Indian Air Force did not engage the Pakistan Air Force in air-to-air combat; however, it did provide effective transport and close air support to the Indian troops. The Indo-Pakistani War of 1965 was the first time the Indian Air Force actively engaged an enemy air force. By the time the conflict had ended, India lost between 65 and 75 aircraft and Pakistan lost between 20 and 43. The Indian Air Force lost 45 aircraft during the Indo-Pakistani war of 1971 and the Pakistani Air Force lost 75 aircraft.\n\nDuring the Iran–Iraq War of 1980–88, there were nearly 1,000 air-to-air engagements between Iran and Iraq, including the only known instances of helicopters dogfighting and shooting down other helicopters. The Falklands War of 1982 witnessed air combat between Argentine and British military aircraft. The Falkland Islands' runways were short and thus unable to support fighter jets, forcing Argentina to launch fighters from the mainland, which had an adverse effect on their loiter time. The Argentine forces lost 23 aircraft in air-to-air combat, out of a total of 134 fixed wing aircraft and helicopters lost during the conflict. During the 1990–91 Persian Gulf War 33 of Iraq's 750 fixed wing aircraft were claimed as downed (23 were confirmed), compared to 14 coalition aircraft claimed as downed (4 losses are confirmed, one F/A-18 Hornet and three UAVs).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25102", "title": "Psychohistory", "text": "Psychohistory\n\nPsychohistory is the study of the psychological motivations of historical events. It attempts to combine the insights of psychoanalysis with the research methodology of the social sciences to understand the emotional origin of the social and political behavior of groups and nations, past and present. Its subject matter is childhood and the family, and psychological studies of anthropology and ethnology.\n\nPsychohistory derives many of its concepts from areas that are perceived to be ignored by conventional historians and anthropologists as shaping factors of human history, in particular, the effects of parenting practice and child abuse. According to conventional historians \"the science of culture is independent of the laws of biology and psychology\". and \"[t]he determining cause of a social fact should be sought among social facts preceding and not among the states of individual consciousness\".\n\nPsychohistorians, on the other hand, suggest that social behavior such as crime and war may be a self-destructive re-enactment of earlier abuse and neglect; that unconscious flashbacks to early fears and destructive parenting could dominate individual and social behavior.\n\nPsychohistory relies heavily on historical biography. Notable examples of psychobiographies are those of Lewis Namier, who wrote about the British House of Commons, and Fawn Brodie, who wrote about Thomas Jefferson.\n\nThere are three inter-related areas of psychohistorical study.\n\nSigmund Freud's well known work, \"Civilization and Its Discontents\" (1929), included an analysis of history based on his theory of psychoanalysis. Yet, Freud's text is in no way a psycho-historical work since the focus of the study is to examine and explain the level of individual psyche which may arise from the influence of the structures of civilization. It is in fact the opposite of psycho-history in that it claims that the unconscious and the individual psyche are both structural effects of different social forces, i.e., civilization.\n\nWilhelm Reich combined his psychoanalytic and political theories in his book \"The Mass Psychology of Fascism\" in 1933.\n\nThe psychologist and philosopher Erich Fromm wrote about the psychological motivation behind political ideology, starting with \"The Fear of Freedom\" in 1941.\n\nAnother member of the Frankfurt school, Theodor Adorno, published \"The Authoritarian Personality\", in 1950, which was an influential sociological book which could be taken as something of a proto-psychohistorical book.\n\nIts first academic use appeared in Erik Erikson's book \"Young Man Luther\" (1958), where the author called for a discipline of \"psycho-history\" to examine the impact of human character on history.\n\nLloyd deMause developed a formal psychohistorical approach from 1974 onwards, and continues to be an influential theorist in this field.\n\nPsychohistorians have argued that psychohistory is a separate field of scholarly inquiry with its own particular methods, objectives and theories, which set it apart from conventional historical analysis and anthropology. Some historians, social scientists and anthropologists have, however, argued that their disciplines already describe psychological motivation and that psychohistory is not, therefore, a separate subject. Others regard it as an undisciplined field of study, due to its emphasis given to speculation on the psychological motivations of people in history. Doubt has also been cast on the viability of the application of post-mortem psychoanalysis by Freud's followers.\n\nPsychohistorians maintain that the difference is one of emphasis and that, in conventional study, narrative and description are central, while psychological motivation is hardly touched on. Psychohistorians accuse most anthropologists and ethnologists of being apologists for incest, infanticide, cannibalism and child sacrifice. They maintain that what constitutes child abuse is a matter of objective fact, and that some of the practices which mainstream anthropologists apologize for (e.g., sacrificial rituals) may result in psychosis, dissociation and magical thinking: particularly for the surviving children who had a brother or sister who was sacrificed by their parents.\n\nLloyd deMause has described a system of psychogenic modes (see below) which describe the range of styles of parenting he has observed historically and across cultures.\n\nPsychohistorians have written much about changes in the human psyche through history; changes that they believe were produced by parents, and especially the mothers' increasing capacity to empathize with their children. Due to these changes in the course of history, different \"psychoclasses\" (or \"psychogenic modes\") emerged. A psychoclass is a type of mentality that results from, and is associated with, a particular childrearing style, and in its turn influences the method of childrearing of the next generations. According to psychohistory theory, regardless of the changes in the environment, it is only when changes in childhood occur and new psychoclasses evolve that societies begin to progress.\n\nThe major psychogenic modes described by deMause are:\nPsychohistorians maintain that the five modes of abusive childrearing (excluding the \"helping mode\") are related to psychiatric disorders from psychoses to neuroses.\n\nThe chart below shows the dates at which these modes are believed to have evolved in the most advanced nations, based on contemporary accounts from historical records. A black-and-white version of the chart appears in \"Foundations of Psychohistory\".\n<br>\nThe Y-Axis on the above chart serves as an indicator of the new stage and not a measurement of the stage's size or relation to the x-axis.\n\nThe timeline doesn't apply to hunter-gatherer societies. It doesn't apply either to the Greek and Roman world, where there was a wide variation in childrearing practices. It is notable that the arrival of the \"Ambivalent\" mode of child-rearing preceded the start of the Renaissance (mid 14th century) by only one or two generations, and the arrival of the \"Socializing\" mode coincided with the Age of Enlightenment, which began in the late 18th century.\n\nEarlier forms of childrearing coexist with later modes, even in the most advanced countries. An example of this are reports of selective abortion (and sometimes exposure of baby girls) especially in China, Korea, Taiwan, Singapore, Malaysia, India, Pakistan, New Guinea, and many other developing countries in Asia and North Africa, regions in which millions of women are \"missing\". The conflict of new and old psychoclasses is also highlighted in psychohistorians' thought. This is reflected in political contrasts – for instance, in the clash between Blue State and Red State voters in the contemporary United States – and in civil wars.\n\nAnother key psychohistorical concept is that of \"group fantasy\", which deMause regards as a mediating force between a psychoclass's collective childhood experiences (and the psychic conflicts emerging therefrom), and the psychoclass's behavior in politics, religion and other aspects of social life.\n\nAccording to the psychogenic theory, since Neanderthal man most tribes and families practiced infanticide, child mutilation, incest and beating of their children throughout prehistory and history. Presently the Western socializing mode of childrearing is considered much less abusive in the field, though this mode is not yet entirely free of abuse. In the opening paragraph of his seminal essay \"The Evolution of Childhood\" (first article in \"The History of Childhood\"), DeMause states:\n\nThe history of childhood is a nightmare from which we have only recently begun to awaken. The further back in history one goes, the lower the level of childcare, and the more likely children are to be killed, abandoned, beaten, terrorized and sexually abused.\n\nThere is notwithstanding an optimistic trait in the field. In a world of \"helping mode\" parents, deMause believes, violence of any other sort will disappear as well, along with magical thinking, mental disorders, wars and other inhumanities of man against man. Although, the criticism has been made that this itself is a form of magical thinking.\n\nThere are no departments dedicated to \"psychohistory\" in any institution of higher learning, although some history departments have run courses in it. Psychohistory remains a controversial field of study, facing criticism in the academic community, with critics referring to it as a pseudoscience. Psychohistory uses a plurality of methodologies, and it is difficult to determine which is appropriate to use in each circumstance.\n\nDeMause has received criticism on several levels. His formulations have been criticized for being insufficiently supported by credible research. He has also received criticism for being a strong proponent of the \"black legend\" view of childhood history (i.e. that the history of childhood was above all a history of progress, with children being far more often badly mistreated in the past). Similarly, his work has been called a history of child abuse, not childhood. The grim perspective of childhood history is known from other sources, e.g. Edward Shorter's \"The Making of the Modern Family\" and Lawrence Stone's \"The Family, Sex and Marriage in England 1500-1800\". However, deMause received criticism for his repeated, detailed descriptions on childhood atrocities:\n\nThe reader is doubtless already familiar with examples of these psychohistorical \"abuses.\" There is a significant difference, however, between the well-meaning and serious, if perhaps simplistic and reductionistic, attempt to understand the psychological in history and the psychohistorical expose that can at times verge on historical pornography. For examples of the more frivolous and distasteful sort of psychohistory, see \"Journal of Psychohistory\". For more serious and scholarly attempts to understand the psychological dimension of the past, see \"The Psychohistory Review\".\n\nRecent psychohistory has also been criticized for being overly-entangled with DeMause, whose theories are not representative of the entire field.\n\nBoston University offers a Psychohistory course at the undergraduate level and has published course details.\n\nThe \"Institute for Psychohistory\" was founded by Lloyd deMause. It has 19 branches around the globe and has for over 30 years published the \"Journal of Psychohistory\". Also the \"International Psychohistorical Association\" was founded by Lloyd deMause (in 1977) as a professional organization for the field of psychohistory. It publishes \"Psychohistory News\" and has a psychohistorical mail order lending library. The association hosts an annual convention.\n\n\"The Psychohistory Forum\", publishes the quarterly journal \"Clio’s Psyche\". It was founded in 1983 by historian and psychoanalyst Paul H. Elovitz. This organization of academics, therapists, and laypeople holds regular scholarly meetings in New York City and at international conventions. It also sponsors an online discussion group.\n\nIn Germany, scientists taking an interest in psychohistory met annually since 1987. In 1992, the \"Gesellschaft für Psychohistorie und politische Psychologie e.V\" (“Society for Psychohistory and Political Psychology”) was founded. This society issues the \"Jahrbuch für Psychohistorische Forschung\" (“Annual of Psychohistorical Research”)\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29484927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29484927", "title": "R. W. Davies", "text": "R. W. Davies\n\nRobert William \"Bob\" Davies, best known as R. W. Davies, (born 23 April 1925) is professor emeritus of Soviet Economic Studies, University of Birmingham. Obtaining his PhD in 1954, Davies was promoted to full professor and made chair of the Centre for Russian and East European Studies (CREES) at the University of Birmingham in 1965. He retired from active teaching in 1989.\n\nA collaborator and co-author with historian E. H. Carr on two volumes of his massive 14 volume \"History of Soviet Russia,\" Davies is best known for having carried Carr's work forward into the 1930s with seven additional volumes of economic history under the general title, \"The Industrialisation of Soviet Russia.\"\n\nRobert William Davies, known to his family and friends as \"Bob,\" was born in London on 23 April 1925.\n\nDuring World War II Davies served in the Royal Air Force, wearing the uniform from 1943 to 1946. He was stationed in the Middle East from 1945 to 1946.\n\nDavies obtained his Bachelor of Arts degree from the School of Slavonic and East European Studies at the University of London in 1950. He subsequently attended the University of Birmingham, where he obtained his PhD in Commerce and Social Science under the supervision of historian Alexander Baykov.\n\nAfter completing his Phd, Davies was appointed to a post as assistant lecturer at the Institute of Soviet Studies at the University of Glasgow, where he would remain until his return to the University of Birmingham in 1956. At Birmingham Davies would hold a succession of academic titles, including Research Fellow, Lecturer, and Senior Lecturer. Davies was appointed as a professor of Soviet Economic Studies by the University of Birmingham in 1965.\n\nIn 1963, Davies was named the first director of the Centre for Russian and East European Studies (CREES) at the University of Birmingham — a post which he would retain until 1978.\n\nDavies retired in 1989 and was named Senior Fellow and Emeritus Professor by the university upon his departure from active teaching.\n\nHis research contributions in the history of the Soviet Union are recognized by the peers.\n\nDavies' papers are housed in the Special Collections department of the University of Birmingham. A temporary register of the Davies' collection, contained in 70 archival boxes, is available.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14590246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14590246", "title": "Radhakamal Mukerjee", "text": "Radhakamal Mukerjee\n\nRadhakamal Mukerjee (1889–1968), a leading thinker and social scientist of modern India, was Professor of Economics and Sociology and Vice-Chancellor of the University of Lucknow. Mukerjee played an important and constructive role in the Indian independence movement. He was a highly original philosopher of history and a discerning interpreter of culture and civilization and a 1962 recipient of the third highest Indian civilian honour of the Padma Bhushan.\n\nMukerjee was the son of a barrister in Baharampur, West Bengal, a city located some 185 km north of Kolkata. He grew up in a household with a scholarly focus and a library devoted to history, literature, the law and Sanskrit texts. After attending Krishnanagar College, he gained an academic scholarship to Presidency College, under the University of Calcutta. He earned his honours degrees in English and History.\n\nMukerjee opened the discourse of the Ashtavakra Gita into English with his posthumous work published in 1971.\n\nMukherjees theory of society sought to explain the values of civilization.\nIn sense, Radhakamal was a pioneer of transdisciplinary approach in science.\n\nRadhakamal Mukerjee emphasized interdisciplinary disciplinary approach towards the understanding of life.\nMukerjee sought to break the barriers between physical sciences and sciences relating to persons aspects.\nMukerjee was a pioneer of Sociology in the 1900s.\n\n"}
{"id": "47914702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47914702", "title": "Rai San'yō", "text": "Rai San'yō\n\nRai San'yō (Japanese: ; 21 January 1780, Aki Province – 16 October 1832, Kyoto) was a Japanese Confucianist philosopher, historian, artist and poet of the later Edo period. His true name was Rai Noboru.\n\nHe was born to a samurai family of the Hiroshima Domain. His father, Rai Shunsui, was a respected Neo-Confucian teacher. His mother, Baisi, was a poet of some note. He first studied humanities with his uncles, who were notable Neo-Confucian scholars. Then, in 1797, he went to the Shōheikō, a training school for government bureaucrats in Edo.\n\nWishing to devote himself to writing instead, at the age of nineteen he detached himself from his domain and became a wandering scholar. This was a serious crime without receiving special permission so, to save him from greater punishment, his father disinherited him and locked him in his room for three years. He spent this time studying and writing. It was there he conceived the idea for his \"Nihon Gaishi\" (\"Unofficial History of Japan\") and began composing the first chapters. Many years before, his father had been engaged in writing an official history, but permission had been suddenly withdrawn.\n\nIn 1811, he moved to Kyoto, opened a school and continued to work on his history. He soon became part of a circle of writers and scholars that included and Ōshio Heihachirō and came under the influence of the Kokugaku movement. He was finally able to achieve financial independence and travelled throughout Japan, writing Kanshi poetry.\n\nIn 1827, he completed the \"Nihon Gaishi\", his life work, It was modeled on the \"Records of the Grand Historian\" and was in 22 volumes, covering Japanese history from the emergence of the Minamoto clan through the reign of Tokugawa Iemitsu. It was the first comprehensive study of its kind. The work was dedicated to the \"daimyō\", Matsudaira Sadanobu, who praised it and presented it to the shogunate for approval. Despite winning that approval, it was later banned in several domains, possibly because it advocated strengthening the powers of the Emperor. It has been cited as a major influence on the \"Sonnō jōi\" movement.\n\nHe was also the author of \"Records of Japan's Government\", in 16 volumes; \"Morality and Duty\", in 3 volumes; several books of verse and travel diaries. He was also an ink wash painter of modest reputation, associated with the Nanga School. \n\nIn his later years, he suffered from tuberculosis and succumbed to the disease while working at his desk.\n\n"}
{"id": "28480970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28480970", "title": "Robert Vincent Daniels", "text": "Robert Vincent Daniels\n\nRobert Vincent \"Bill\" Daniels (1926–2010) was an American historian and educator specializing in the history of the Soviet Union. He is best remembered as the author of two seminal monographs on the history of Soviet Russia —\"The Conscience of the Revolution\" (1960) and \"Red October\" (1967) — and as author or editor of an array of widely used Russian history textbooks which helped to shape the thinking of two generations of American college students.\n\nRobert V. Daniels, known to his friends and acquaintances by the nickname \"Bill,\" was born on January 4, 1926 in Boston, Massachusetts. He was the son of Robert W. Daniels, a career officer in the United States Army, and Helen Hoyt Daniels. The Daniels family moved extensively throughout Bill's childhood, but he generally returned each summer to Burlington, Vermont, the town from whence his parents hailed and where his grandparents remained.\n\nDaniels graduated from St. Albans school in Washington, DC in 1943. The next year he joined the United States Navy, where he went through the V-12 Navy College Training Program before being assigned as paymaster on the \"USS Albany.\"\n\nIn 1945, Daniels married Alice Wendell. The couple remained together for over six decades, raising two daughters and two sons.\n\nDaniels received his A.B. in Economics in 1946, graduating \"magna cum laude.\" He later received his M.A., and Ph.D. in history from Harvard University, one of the pioneer academic programs in the field of Russian area studies. Daniels' dissertation on the Left Opposition of Leon Trotsky and Grigorii Zinoviev in the Russian Communist Party up to the year 1924, was directed by historians Michael Karpovich and Merle Fainsod. Daniels' dissertation was subsequently revised and expanded for publication as \"The Conscience of the Revolution\" in 1960.\n\nDaniels' first academic position was at Bennington College. From there he moved to the Indiana University in Bloomington, where he remained until coming home to the University of Vermont (UVM) in 1956. Daniels remained at UVM as a professor of History until his retirement in 1988.\n\nDaniels was the first director of the Area and International Studies program at the University of Vermont, serving in that capacity from 1962 to 1965. From 1964 to 1969 he was the chair of the History Department at UVM. He was also the director of the Experimental Program of the College of Arts and Sciences from 1969 to 1971.\n\nDaniels retired from the University of Vermont in 1988, assuming the title of Emeritus Professor.\n\nAs was the case with many historians of the Soviet period, Daniels became greatly interested in the process of development in Russia following the 1991 collapse of communism and authored several books on the topic. He also was a contributor of analysis on the changing situation in Russia to liberal magazines such as \"Dissent\" and \"The Nation.\"\n\nIn 1992, Daniels was elected President of the American Association for the Advancement of Slavic Studies (AAASS), the main academic society for scholars of Russia, Central, and Eastern Europe in the United States. He was a co-recipient of the AAASS award for distinguished contributions to Slavic Studies in 2001.\n\nIn 2004, Daniels was awarded an honorary Doctor of Law degree by the University of Vermont and the university created the Robert V. Daniels Award for Outstanding Contributions in the field of International Studies.\n\nDaniels was active in the Democratic Party. He was elected to the Vermont State Senate as a Democrat in 1973 from Chittenden County and re-elected several times, serving in that capacity until 1982.\n\nBill Daniels died March 28, 2010. He was 84 years old at the time of his death.\n\nAlthough best remembered as the author and editor of a series of paperback academic textbooks targeted at university undergraduates, Daniel contributed two important works of history during the decade of the 1960s.\n\nIn \"The Conscience of the Revolution: Communist Opposition in Soviet Russia,\" Daniels revisited the origins of the Russian Social Democratic Labor Party in Russia, depicting the Bolshevik organization as a multi-tendency organization from its inception through the assertion of full control by Joseph Stalin during the collectivization campaign of 1929. \"Fundamental changes were taking place in the movement during these years,\" Daniels argued, and therefore \"present-day Communism must accordingly be regarded as the evolutionary product of circumstances.\" Such a view stood in opposition to the dominant totalitarian model of the day, which tended to depict the Soviet Union as monolithic and immutable without the exertion of external force.\n\nIn \"Red October: The Bolshevik Revolution of 1917,\" published in 1967 at the time of the 50th anniversary of the Russian Revolution, Daniels returned to his vision of a multi-tendency Bolshevik Party. In this work, Daniels detailed the confusion and process of persuasion by Lenin over the party leadership which culminated in the insurrection of November 1917. As Daniels himself noted, his book was dedicated to showing the process by which the Bolsheviks managed to seize power at the center of the Russian empire, rather than examining the social background of the revolutionaries and their opponents, contributing factors in Russian society, or the nature of the revolution at the periphery of the empire, away from the urban center.\n\nDaniels' emphasis on the multi-tendency nature of the early Bolshevik organization, with its implications of multiple possible paths of development rather than an inherent road to totalitarian dictatorship, presaged the work of a generation of younger political historians such as Stephen F. Cohen and the wave of social historians who came to the fore in the profession of Soviet studies during the decades of the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nSee Hoffmann, Erik, P. 2011. \"Robert V. Daniels,\" in PS: Political Science & Politics, Volume 44, No. 1, pp 156 – 160.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3715871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3715871", "title": "Salvador, Bahia", "text": "Salvador, Bahia\n\nSalvador, also known as São Salvador da Bahia de Todos os Santos (English: \"Savior\"; \"Saint Savior from the Bay of All Saints\") is the capital of the Brazilian state of Bahia. With 2.9 million people , it is the largest city proper in the Northeast Region and the 4th-largest city proper in the country, after São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and Brasília.\n\nFounded by the Portuguese in 1549 as the first capital of Brazil, Salvador is one of the oldest colonial cities in the Americas. A sharp escarpment divides its Lower Town (') from its Upper Town (') by some . The ', Brazil's first elevator, has connected the two since 1873. The Pelourinho district of the upper town, still home to many examples of Portuguese colonial architecture and historical monuments, was named a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 1985. The city's cathedral is the see of the primate of Brazil and its Carnival celebration has been reckoned as the largest party in the world. Salvador was the first slave port in the Americas and the African influence of the slaves' descendants makes it a center of Afro-Brazilian (') culture. The city is noted for its cuisine, music, dance and architecture. Porto da Barra Beach in Barra has been named one of the best beaches in the world. Itaipava Arena Fonte Nova was the site of the city's games during the 2014 Brazilian World Cup and 2013 Confederations Cup.\n\nSalvador forms the heart of the \"\", Bahia's rich agricultural and industrial maritime district, and continues to be a major Brazilian port. Its metropolitan area, housing 3 899 533 people forms the wealthiest one in Brazil's Northeast Region .\n\nSalvador lies on a small, roughly triangular peninsula that separates the Bay of All Saints, the largest bay in Brazil, from the Atlantic Ocean. It was first reached by Gaspar de Lemos in 1501, just one year after Cabral's purported discovery of Brazil. During his second voyage for Portugal, the Italian explorer Amerigo Vespucci sighted the bay on All Saints' Day (November 1) 1502 and, in honor of the date and his parish church in Florence, he named it the Bay of the Holy Savior of All the Saints. The first European to settle nearby was Diogo Álvares Correia (\"Caramuru\"), who was shipwrecked off the end of the peninsula in 1509. He lived among the Tupinambá, marrying Guaibimpara and others. In 1531, Martim Afonso de Sousa led an expedition from Mount St Paul (\"\") and, in 1534, Francisco Pereira Coutinho, the first captain of Bahia, established the settlement of Pereira in modern Salvador's Ladeira da Barra neighborhood. Mistreatment of the Tupinambá by the settlers caused them to turn hostile and the Portuguese were forced to flee to Porto Seguro . An attempted restoration of the colony the next year ended in shipwreck and cannibalism.\n\nThe present city was established as the fortress of da Bahia de (\"Holy Savior of the Bay of All Saints\") in 1549 by Portuguese settlers under Tomé de Sousa, Brazil's first governor-general. It is one of the oldest cities founded by Europeans in the Americas. From a cliff overlooking the Bay of All Saints, it served as Brazil's first capital and quickly became a major port for its slave trade and sugarcane industry. Salvador was long divided into an upper and a lower city, divided by a sharp escarpment some high. The upper city formed the administrative, religious, and primary residential districts while the lower city was the commercial center, with a port and market.\n\nIn the Roman Catholic Church, Brazil and the rest of the Portuguese Empire were initially administered as part of the Diocese of Funchal in Portugal but, in 1551, Salvador became the seat of the first Roman Catholic diocese erected in Brazil. The first parish church was the mud-and-thatch Church of Our Lady of Help (\") erected by the Jesuits (Society of Jesus), which served as the first cathedral of the diocese until the Jesuits finished construction of the original basilica on the Terreiro de Jesus in 1553. Its bishop was made independent of the Archdiocese of Lisbon at the request of King Pedro II in 1676; he served as the primate of the Congo and Angola in central Africa until the elevation of the Diocese of Luanda on 13 January 1844 and its bishop still serves as the national primate and premier see (diocese) of Brazil.\n\nIn 1572, the Governorate of Brazil was divided into the separate governorates of Bahia in the north and Rio de Janeiro in the south. These were reunited as Brazil six years later, then redivided from 1607 to 1613. By that time, Portugal had become temporarily united with Spain and was ruled from Madrid by its kings. In 1621, King Philip III replaced the Governorate of Brazil with the states of Brazil, still based in Salvador and now controlling the south, and the Maranhão, which was centered on São Luís and controlled what is now northern Brazil. As Spain was then prosecuting a war against the independence of the Dutch, the Dutch East and West India companies tried to conquer Brazil from them. Salvador played a strategically vital role against Dutch Brazil, but was captured and sacked by a West India Company fleet under Jacob Willekens and Piet Hein on 10 May 1624. Johan van Dorth administered the colony before his assassination, freeing its slaves. The city was recaptured by a Luso-Spanish fleet under Fadrique Álvarez de Toledo y Mendoza on 1 May 1625. John Maurice's two subsequent attempts to retake the town in April and May of 1638 were unsuccessful.\nIn 1763, the colonial administration was removed to Rio de Janeiro and elevated to a viceroyalty. Salvador remained the heart of the \", Bahia's rich agricultural maritime district, but was largely outside Brazil's early modernization. The area formed a center of royal Portuguese support against heir apparent 's declaration of independence from European Portugal on September 7, 1822. Its elites initially remained loyal to the Portuguese crown while rebels from Cachoeira besieged them for a year until finally receiving Portugal's surrender of the town on July 2, 1823, which is now celebrated as Bahia Independence Day. The local elite was similarly hesitant during Manuel Deodoro da Fonseca's later coup that established the republic in 1889.\n\nOwing to whales' use of the Bay of All Saints as a mating ground, Salvador became a large whaling port in the Southern Hemisphere during the 19th century but the trade had already begun to fall off by the 1870s.\n\nUnder the empire and republic periods, however, the town slowly began to industrialize. In 1873, Brazil's first elevator, the powerful hydraulic \"\", was constructed to connect the city's upper and lower towns. Having undergone several upgrades, it continues in use. By the First World War, it was joined by a second elevator and Salvador was connected to four railroads: the Bahia & Alagoinhas to Joazeiro, the Bahia Central, the Nazareth Tramway, and a short line to Santo Amaro. Its central districts and the major suburbs of Bomsim and Victoria were served by four streetcar lines, which had begun to electrify. It also served as a port of call for most steamship lines trading between Europe and South America.\n\nIn 1985, UNESCO listed the city's Pelourinho neighborhood as a World Heritage Site. In the 1990s, a major municipal project cleaned and restored the neighborhood in order to develop it as the cultural center and heart of the city's tourist trade. The development of the Historical Center, however, involved the forced removal of thousands of working-class residents and now necessitates local and municipal events in order to attract people to the area. The relocated workers, meanwhile, have encountered significant economic hardship in their new homes on the city's periphery, separated from access to work and civic amenities.\n\nIn 2007, Porto da Barra Beach in Barra was named by the British \"Guardian\" newspaper as the 3rd-best beach in the world. In 2010, the city hosted the 12th UN Congress on Crime Prevention. The city hosted the 2013 Confederations Cup and was one of the host cities of the 2014 FIFA World Cup in Brazil at its Arena Fonte Nova. As part of its preparations for the World Cup, the city reëstablished its public transportation lines as the Salvador Metro.\n\nSalvador has a tropical rainforest climate (Köppen: \"Af\") Temperatures are relatively constant throughout the course of the year. Salvador's driest months of the year are December and January, when the city receives on average less than of precipitation. Salvador's wettest months are between April and June when at least of rain falls during each of these three months.\n\nIn 2010, the city of Salvador was the third-most populous city in Brazil, after São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. The city had 474,827 opposite-sex couples and 1,595 same-sex couples. The population of Salvador was 53.3% female and 46.7% male.\n\nAccording to the 2010 IBGE Census, there were 2,675,000 people residing in the city of Salvador. The census revealed the following self-identification: 1,382,543 persons identify as Pardo (Multiracial) (51.7%); 743,718 as Black (27.8%); 505,645 as White (18.9%); 35,785 as Asian (1.3%); and 7,563 as Amerindian(0.3%).\n\nSalvador's population is the result of 500 years of miscegenation. The majority of the population has African, European and Native American roots. The African ancestry of the city is from Angola, Benin, Congo, Ethiopia, Nigeria, Senegal and Mozambique.According to an autosomal DNA study from 2008, the ancestral heritage of the population of Salvador was estimated to be 49.20% African, 36.30% European and 14.50% Native American. The study also analyzed the genetic backgrounds of people by type of surname. Those with surnames with a religious connotation were 53.1% African in genetic ancestry and tended to be in lower economic classes. During the colonial era, it was typical practice for Portuguese priests and missionaries to baptize converted African slaves and Native Americans with surnames of religious connotations. These have been passed down to their descendants.\n\nA 2015 autosomal DNA study found out the following ancestral composition in Salvador: 50.5% of African ancestry, 42.4% of European ancestry and 5.8% of Native American ancestry. The researchers explained they oversampled\nindividuals living in poor environments (page 4).\n\nAnother 2015 autosomal DNA found out Salvador to be 50.8% African, 42.9% European and 6.4% Native American.\n\nAnd another autosomal DNA study, also in 2015, found out Salvador to be: 50.8% European, 40.5% African and 8.7% Native American.\n\nSource: Planet Barsa Ltda.\n\nIn Salvador, religion is a major contact point between Portuguese and African influences and, in the last 20 years, Brazil's version of a North American-influenced Pentecostalism. Salvador was the seat of the first bishopric in colonial Brazil (established 1551), and the first bishop, \"Pero Fernandes Sardinha\", arrived already in 1552. The Jesuits, led by the Manuel da Nóbrega, also arrived in the 16th century and worked in converting the Indigenous peoples of the region to Roman Catholicism.\n\nMany religious orders came to the city, following its foundation: Franciscans, Benedictines and Carmelites. Subsequently, to them are created the Third Orders, the Brotherhoods, and Fraternities, which were composed mainly of professional and social groups. The most prominent of these orders were the Terceira do Carmo Order and the de São Francisco Order, founded by white men, and the Nossa Senhora do Rosário and São Beneditino Brotherhoods, composed of black men. In many churches maintained by religious men, were housed the Santíssimo Sacramento brotherhoods.\n\nBesides these organizations, the expansion of Catholicism in the city was consolidated through social care work. Santa Casa the Misericórdia was one of the institution that did this kind of work, maintaining hospitals, shelters for the poor and the elderly, as well providing assistance to convicts and to those who would face death penalties. The convents, on their part, were cultural and religious formation centers, offering seminar coursed that often were attended by the lay.\n\nEven with the present evolution, and the growth of Protestantism and other religions in the city, the Catholic faith remains as one of its most distinctive features, drawing a lot of people to its hundreds of churches. Some aspects, like the use of Portuguese in the Masses, the simplification of the liturgy, and the adoption of \"pop\" religious songs are key factors to the triumph of Catholicism. In the Nossa Senhora do Rosário dos Pretos Church, Masses are held in the Yorubá language, making use of African chants and typical clothes, which attract many people from the African Brazilian communities.\n\nMost enslaved Africans in Bahia were brought from Sub-Saharan Africa, especially the Yoruba-speaking nation (\"Iorubá\" or \"Nagô\" in Portuguese) from present-day Benin. The enslaved were forced to convert to Roman Catholicism, but their original religion Yorùbá was combined with Roman Catholicism to make the syncretic religion known as, Candomblé, which has survived in spite of prohibitions and persecutions. The enslaved Africans managed to preserve their religion by attributing the names and characteristics of their Yorùbá deities to Catholic saints with similar qualities. Still today all Candomble sessions are conducted in Yoruba, not Portuguese.These religious entities have been syncretised with some Catholic entities. For instance, Salvador's Feast of Bonfim, celebrated in January, is dedicated to both Our Lord of Bonfim (Jesus Christ) and Oxalá. Another important feast is the Feast de Yemanja every 2 February, on the shores of the borough of Rio Vermelho in \n\nSalvador, on the day the church celebrates Our Lady of the Navigators. 8 December, Immaculate Conception Day for Catholics, is also commonly dedicated to Yemanja' with votive offerings made in the sea throughout the Brazilian coast.\n\n\"Source: IBGE 2010. \"\n\nThroughout Brazilian history Salvador has played an important role. Because of its location on Brazil's northeastern coast, the city served as an important link in the Portuguese empire throughout the colonial era, maintaining close commercial ties with Portugal and Portuguese colonies in Africa and Asia.\n\nSalvador remained the preeminent city in Brazil until 1763 when it was replaced as the national capital by Rio de Janeiro. In the last ten years many high-rise office and apartment buildings were constructed, sharing the same blocks with colonial-era housing or commercial buildings.\n\nWith its beaches, humid tropical climate, numerous up-to-date shopping malls (The Shopping Iguatemi was the first shopping mall in Northeastern Brazil) and pleasant high-class residential areas, the city has much to offer its residents.\n\nEconomically Salvador is one of Brazil's more important cities. Since its founding the city has been one of Brazil's most prominent ports and international trading centers. Boasting a large oil refinery, a petrochemical plant and other important industries, the city has made great strides in reducing its historical dependence on agriculture for its prosperity.\n\nSalvador is the second most popular tourism destination in Brazil, after Rio de Janeiro. Tourism and cultural activity are important generators of employment and income, boosting the arts and the preservation of artistic and cultural heritage.\n\nChief among the points of interest are its famous \"Pelourinho\" (named after the colonial pillories that once stood there) district, its historic churches, and its beaches. Salvador's tourism infrastructure is considered one of the most modern in World, especially in terms of lodging. The city offers accommodation to suit all tastes and standards, from youth hostels to international hotels. Construction is one of the most important activities in the city, and many international (mainly from Spain, Portugal and England) and national developers are investing in the city and in the Bahian littoral zone.\n\nFord Motor Company has a plant in the Metropolitan Region of Salvador, in the city of Camaçari, assembling the Ford EcoSport, Ford Fiesta, Ford Fiesta Sedan. It was the first Automotive industry in Northeastern Brazil. The industry employs 800 engineers.\n\nJAC Motors will have a plant in the Metropolitan Region of Salvador, in the city of Camaçari, the new industry will result 3,500 direct jobs and 10,000 indirect jobs, the production of 100,000 vehicles by year.\n\nIn December 2001, Monsanto Company inaugurated, at the Petrochemical Pole of Camaçari, in Metropolitan Region of Salvador, the first plant of the company designed to produce raw materials for the herbicide Roundup in South America. The investment is equivalent to US$500 millions; US$350 millions were spent in this initial phase. The Camaçari Plant, the largest unit of Monsanto outside of the United States, is also the only Monsanto plant manufacturing raw materials for the Roundup production line. The company started the civil works for the new plant in January 2000.\n\nThe Salvador coastline is one of the longest for cities in Brazil. There are of beaches distributed between the High City and the Low City, from Inema, in the railroad suburb to the Praia do Flamengo, on the other side of town. While the Low City beaches are bordered by the waters of the All Saints Bay (the country's most extensive bay), the High City beaches, from Farol da Barra to Flamengo, are bordered by the Atlantic Ocean. The exception is Porto da Barra Beach, the only High City beach located in the All Saints Bay.\n\nThe capital's beaches range from calm inlets, ideal for swimming, sailing, diving and underwater fishing, as well as open sea inlets with strong waves, sought by surfers. There are also beaches surrounded by reefs, forming natural pools of stone, ideal for children.\n\nInteresting places to visit near Salvador include:\n\nThe city is served by many shopping malls, including Shopping Iguatemi, Salvador Shopping, Shopping Barra, and Shopping Paralela.\n\nSalvador has four parks, green areas protected, as Jardim dos Namorados Park, Costa Azul Park, Park of the City, Park of Pituaçu.\n\nJardim dos Namorados is located right next to Costa Azul Park and occupies an area of 15 hectares in Pituba, where many families used to spend their vacations in the 1950s. It was inaugurated in 1969, initially as a leisure area. It underwent a complete renovation in the 1990s, with the construction of an amphitheater with room for 500 people, sports courts, playgrounds and parking for cars and tourist buses.\n\nPark of the City is an important preservation area of the Atlantic forest. It was completely renovated in 2001, becoming a modern social, cultural and leisure place. The new park has 720 square meter of green area right in the middle of the city. Among the attractions are Praça das Flores (Flowers square), with more than five thousand ornamental plants and flowers.\n\nBesides its environment, the park has an infrastructure for children, with a special schedule of events taking place every October.\n\nCreated by state decree in 1973, Pituaçu Park occupies an area of 450 hectares and is one of the few Brazilian ecological parks located in an urban area. It is surrounded by Atlantic forest, with a good variety of plants and animals. There is also an artificial pond in the park, built in 1906 along with the Pituaçu Dam, whose purpose was to supply water to the city.\n\nThere are a number of possible leisure activities, ranging from cycloboats rides on the pond, to a long cycloway circling the entire reserve. A museum is also located in the park. Espaço Cravo is an outdoor museum with 800 pieces created by Mario Cravo, comprising Totems, winged and three-dimensional figures, as well as drawings and paintings.\n\nThe city has several universities:\n\nThe city has several language schools of Portuguese for foreigners and English for locals.\n\nTop high schools of the city according to Exame Nacional do Ensino Médio are:\nSalvador is one of the most crime-ridden cities in the country. The number of homicides increased 418% from 2000 to 2010. From 1998 to 2008, the number of homicides of youths between the ages of 15 and 24 increased 435.1%. Gun violence in the state of Bahia more than doubled in the period from 2004 to 2014, and the city is in the top ten for gun violence of the 26 state capitals of Brazil. In 2014 the state of Bahia had the most murderers in the country. At the same time, Salvador has one of the lowest rates of suicide in the nation.\n\nSalvador's historical and cultural aspects were inherited by the intermarriage of such ethnic groups as Native-Indian, African and European. This mixture can be seen in the religion, cuisine, cultural manifestations, and custom of Bahia's people. African cultural practices are particularly celebrated.\n\nGregório de Mattos, born in Salvador in 1636, was also educated by the Jesuits. He became the most important Baroque poet in colonial Brazil for his religious and satirical works. Father António Vieira was born in Lisbon in 1608, but was raised and educated in the Jesuit school of Salvador and died in the city in 1697. His erudite sermons have earned him the title of best writer of the Portuguese language in the Baroque era.\n\nAfter the Independence of Brazil (1822), Salvador continued to play an important role in Brazilian literature. Significant 19th century writers associated with the city include Romantic poet Castro Alves (1847–1871) and diplomat Ruy Barbosa (1849–1923). In the 20th century, Bahia-born Jorge Amado (1912–2001), although not born in Salvador, helped popularize the culture of the city around the world in novels such as \"Jubiabá\", \"Dona Flor e Seus Dois Maridos\", and \"Tenda dos Milagres\", the settings of which are in Salvador.\n\nThe local cuisine, spicy and based on seafood (shrimp, fish), strongly relies on typically African ingredients and techniques, and is much appreciated throughout Brazil and internationally. The most typical ingredient is \"azeite-de-dendê\", an oil extracted from a palm tree (\"Elaeis guineensis\") brought from West Africa to Brazil during colonial times.\n\nUsing the milky coconut juice, they prepared a variety of seafood based dishes, such as Ensopados, Moquecas and Escabeche. The sugar cane bagasse was mixed with molasses and Rapadura, in the creation of coconut desserts like Cocada Branca and Preta. The remaining of the Portuguese Stew sauce was mixed with manioc flour to make a mush, which is a traditional Indian dish. In the markets of Salvador, it is possible to find stands selling typical dishes of the colonial era. In the Sete Portas Market, customers eat Mocotó on Friday nights since the 1940s, when the market was inaugurated. In the restaurants of Mercado Modelo, Sarapatel, stews and several fried dishes are served regularly. In the São Joaquim, Santa Bárbara and São Miguel markets, there are stands selling typical food. They are also sold at stands located on the beaches, specially crab stews and oysters. The restaurants that sell typical dishes are located mostly along the coast and in Pelourinho. They prepare a wide variety of recipes that take palm tree oil.\n\nTraditional dishes include \"caruru\", \"vatapá\", \"acarajé\", \"bobó-de-camarão\", \"moqueca\" baiana, and \"abará\". Some of these dishes, like the acarajé and abará, are also used as offerings in Candomblé rituals. But Salvador is not only typical food. Other recipes created by the slaves were the Haussá Rice (rice and jerked beef cooked together), the Munguzá, used as offering to the Candomblé deity Oxalá (who is the father of all deities, according to the religion) pleased the matrons very much. So did the Bolinhos the Fubá, the Cuscuz (cornmeal) and the Mingau (porridge). According to Arany Santana, the African Ipetê (used in the rituals to the deity Oxum) became the Shrimp bobó, and the Akará (honoring the deities Xangô and Iansã) became the world-famous Acarajé. The city has restaurants specialized on international cuisine also. There are also places that serve dishes from other states of Brazil, especially from Minas Gerais and the Northeast region.\n\nCapoeira is a unique mix of dance and martial art of Afro-Brazilian origin, combining agile dance moves with unarmed combat techniques. Capoeira in Portuguese literally means \"chicken coop\". The presence of capoeira in Brazil is directly connected to the importation of African slaves by the Portuguese, and Salvador is considered the home of modern capoeira branches. In the first half of the 20th century, Salvador-born masters Mestre Bimba and Mestre Pastinha founded capoeira schools and helped standardize and popularize the art in Brazil and the world. The practice of Capoeira was banned in 1892, though in 1937 it was made legal. In recent years, Capoeira has become more international and accessible even in Salvador.\n\nThe artistic, cultural and social heritage of Salvador is preserved in museums. From Museu de Arte da Bahia (MAB), which is the oldest in the State, to Museu Náutico, the newest, the first capital of Brazil displays unique elements of history. Museu de Arte da Bahia has paintings, Chinese porcelain, furniture and sacred images from the 17th and 18th centuries. Museu Costa Pinto has privately owned items such as, pieces of art, crystal objects, and furniture from the 18th and 19th centuries. Museu da Cidade, where many items that help to preserve the heritage of old Salvador are kept.\n\nSome churches and monasteries also have museums located in their premises. Examples of this are the Carmo da Misericórdia and São Bento museums. After the forts were renovated, Museu Náutico was established in the Forte de Santo Antonio da Barra (Farol da Barra) and the Museu da Comunicação in Forte São Diogo. Other important museums located in Salvador are: Museu do Cacau, Museu geológico do Estado, Museu tempostal, Solar do Ferrão, Museu de Arte Antiga e Popular Henriqueta M Catharino, Museu Eugênio Teixeira Leal, Museu Rodin Bahia, and Museu das Portas do Carmo.\n\nThe streets of Salvador are decorated with numerous murals and sculptures, many of which have been produced by the resident artist Bel Borba, a native of the city.\n\nThe Bahian Carnival () is the largest party on the planet. Its dimensions are gigantic. For an entire week, almost 4 million people celebrate throughout of streets, avenues, and squares. The direct organization of the party involves the participation of over 100,000 people and Salvador receives an average of over 800,000 visitors. The affair is heavily policed and covered. Streets are patrolled by lines of police in single file and guarded by seated teams of five or six officers. In 2010, coverage was provided by 4,446 journalists from the local, national, and international press and broadcast to 135 countries through 65 radio stations, 75 magazines, 139 video productions, 97 newspapers (including 21 international papers), 14 tv stations, and 168 websites.\n\nThe party official begins when Rei Momo (\"King Momo\", the King of Carnival) is handed the key to the city in the morning of the Thursday before Mardi Gras. In the Campo Grande, streets are lined with grandstands ('). 60-foot-long trucks known as ' carry a kick line of scantily-clad dancers along with the city's best-loved performers, such as Ivete Sangalo, Daniela Mercury, Cláudia Leitte, Chiclete com Banana, and Carlinhos Brown. Much of the music played is axé or samba-reggae. Groups known as ' participate, with the most famous being the ' such as Malé Debalé, Olodum, and Filhos de Gandhi.\n\nThe parades are organized into separate circuits. The Osmar Circuit, the oldest, goes from Campo Grande to Castro Alves Square. The Downtown Circuit runs through downtown and Pelourinho. The Dodô Circuit goes from Farol da Barra to Ondina along the coast. Since the Osmar Circuit is the oldest, it is where the event's most traditional groups parade. In Dodô, where the artist box seats are located, the party becomes lively toward the end of the afternoon and continues until morning.\n\nBlack Bahia Funk Balls play more American music—including English music—than their counterparts in Rio, while Rio's music is considered inferior and less played. The local dancehalls which host the balls are also distinct.\n\nThe first books that arrived in Salvador, were brought by the Jesuits, who came with Tomé de Souza. The first libraries or bookstores that appeared were under the control of the religious missionaries and were mostly composed of books on religion.\n\nThe handcraft legacy of Bahia using only raw materials (straw, leather, clay, wood, seashells and beads), the most rudimentary crafts are reasonably inexpensive. Other pieces are created with the use of metals like gold, silver, copper and brass. The most sophisticated ones are ornamented with precious and semi-precious gems. The craftsmen and women generally choose religion as the main theme of their work.\n\nThey portray the images of Catholic saints and Candomble deities on their pieces. The good luck charms such as the clenched fist, the four-leaf clover, the garlic and the famous Bonfim ribbons express the city's religious syncretism. Nature is also portrayed on these pieces, reflecting the local wildlife. Music appears in the atabaque drums, the rain sticks, the water drums and the famous berimbau, along with other typical instruments.\n\nSalvador holds an international reputation as a city where musical instruments that produce unique sounds are made. These instruments are frequently used by world-famous artists in their recording sessions. The main handcrafts production in Salvador is located in Mercado Modelo, which is the biggest handcraft center in Latin America.\n\nPieces can also be purchased at Instituto de Artesanato de Mauá and at Instituto do Patrimônio Artístico e Cultural (IPAC). These are organizations that promote typical art in Bahia.\n\nDeputado Luís Eduardo Magalhães International Airport has an area of between sand dunes and native vegetation. It is north of Central Salvador, and the road to the airport has already become one of the city's main scenic attractions.\n\nWith cargo volume that grows every year with the economic growth of the state, the Port of Salvador, located in the Bahia de Todos os Santos, is the port with the most movement of containers of the North/Northeast and the second-leading fruit exporter in Brazil.\n\nSalvador Metro System is in operation since 2014, and its first stage was ready since March 2008, between Lapa and Aceso Norte Stations, and in 2009, it was ready the metro stations between Estação Accesso Norte and Pirajá. In December 2014, it opened as far as Retiro. In 2018, the system had and 20 stations and linked with the bus system.\n\nThe main shareholders in Metro Salvador are the Spanish companies Construcciones y Auxiliar de Ferrocarriles, Dimetronic, and ICF. It is expected that Metro Salvador will invest US$150 million in rolling stock and signalling and telecommunications equipment. The contract covers the first line from Pirajá to Lapa, which is due to open in 2003. The project is also financed by a US$150 million World Bank loan and contributions from the federal, Bahia state, and Salvador city governments.\n\nThe system was one of the actions for urban mobility in preparation for the 2014 FIFA World Cup. The connection of Line 2 with Line 1 of Salvador Metro helps to connect the International Airport to Downtown Salvador and the Fonte Nova Stadium. The new Line 2 of Salvador Metro integrates the metro stations of the Rótula do Abacaxi and the beach city of Lauro de Freitas in the metropolitan area, passing through the airport at the Airport metro station.\n\nThe BR-101 and BR-116 federal highways cross Bahia from north to south, connecting Salvador to the rest of the country. At the Feira de Santana junction, take the BR-324 state highway. The capital of Bahia is served by several coach companies from almost every Brazilian state. BR-242, starting at São Roque do Paraguaçu (transversal direction), is linked to BR-116, bound to the middle–west region. Among the state highways stands BA-099, which makes connection to the north coast and BA-001, which makes connection to the south of Bahia. Buses provide direct service to most major Brazilian cities, including Rio de Janeiro, São Paulo, and Brasília, as well as regional destinations. In 2007, the city had 586,951 vehicles, the largest number of the Northern and Northeastern Brazil. Salvador has 2,500 public buses, and 2 million people are transported every day.\n\nThe bus station (\"rodoviária\") is in Iguatemi, with direct buses to larger cities in the country and to many other destinations in the state. On the second floor are the counters for the different bus companies, and on the first floor is a small supermarket and a 24 h left luggage. Across the street is a large shopping center, Iguatemi, with a food court, connected by a pedestrian crossing.\n\nFour paved highways connect the city to the national highway system. Running north from the Farol (lighthouse) de Itapoã are hundreds of miles of wonderful beaches. The beaches are accessible by the BA-099 highway or (Line of Coconut and Green Line), a (toll) road, which is kept in excellent condition, running parallel to the coast, with access roads leading off to the coast itself. The road runs along dunes of snow-white sand, and the coast itself is an almost unbroken line of coconut palms. The communities along the coast range from fishing villages to Praia do Forte.\n\nThe average amount of time people spend commuting with public transit in Salvador, such as to and from work, on a weekday is 94 min, and 33% of public transit riders ride for more than 2 h every day. The average amount of time people wait at a stop or station for public transit is 33 min, and 70% of riders wait for over 20 mib on average every day. The average distance that people usually ride in a single trip with public transit is 8 km, and 18% travel for over 12 km in a single trip.\n\nAlthough the creation of Salvador was masterminded by the Kingdom of Portugal and its project conducted by the Portuguese engineer Luís Dias (who was responsible for the city's original design), the continuous growth of the capital through the decades was completely spontaneous. The walls of the city-fortress could not hold the expansion of the city, towards the Carmo and the area where now stands Castro Alves Square. At the time of its foundation, Salvador had only two squares and the first neighborhood ever built here was the Historic City Center. Pelourinho and Carmo came subsequently, created as a consequence of the growing need of space that the religious orders had. With the rapid expansion, the neighborhoods grew and many of them were clustered in the same area, so today there are not accurate records as to their exact number. For urban management purposes, the city is currently divided on 17 political-administrative zones. However, due to their very cultural relevance and to postal conveniences, the importance of the neighborhoods of Salvador remains intact.\n\nSalvador is divided into a number of distinct neighborhoods, with the most well known districts being Pelourinho, Comércio, and Old Downtown, all located in West Zone. Barra, with its Farol da Barra, beaches and which is where one of the Carnival circuits begins, Barra is home of the Portuguese Hospital and Spanish Hospital, the neighborhood is located in South Zone. Vitória, a neighborhood with many high rise buildings, is located in South Zone.\nCampo Grande, with its Dois de Julho Square and the monument to Bahia's independence, is also located in South Zone, as is Graça, an important residential area.\nOndina, with Salvador's Zoobotanical Garden and the site where the Barra-Ondina Carnival circuit ends, the neighborhood is home of the Spanish Club, is also a neighborhood in the South Zone.\n\nItaigara, Pituba, Horto Florestal, Caminho das Árvores, Loteamento Aquárius, Brotas, Stiep, Costa Azul, Armação, Jaguaribe and Stella Maris are the wealthiest and the New Downtown neighborhoods in the East Zone and the city. Rio Vermelho, a neighborhood with a rich architectural history and numerous restaurants and bars, is located in the South Zone. Itapoã, known throughout Brazil as the home of Vinicius de Moraes and for being the setting of the song \"Tarde em Itapoã\", is located in East Zone.\n\nThe Northwest area of the city in along the Bay of All Saints, also known as \"Cidade Baixa\" (\"Lower city\"), contains the impoverished suburban neighborhoods of Periperi, Paripe, Lobato, Liberdade, Nova Esperança, and Calçada. The neighborhood of Liberdade (Liberty) has the largest proportion of Afro-Brazilians of Salvador and Brazil.\n\nThe Historic Center of Salvador was designated in 1985 a World Heritage Site by UNESCO. The city represents a fine example the Portuguese urbanism from the middle of the 16th century with its higher administrative town and its lower commercial town, and a large portion of the city has retained the old character of its streets and colourful houses.\n\nAs the first capital of Portuguese America, Salvador cultivated slave labor and had its pillories (\"\") installed in open places like the Terreiro de Jesus and the squares know today as Tomé de Sousa and Castro Alves. The pillories were a symbol of authority and justice for some and of lashings and injustice for the majority. The one erected for a short time in what is now the Historical Center, and later moved to what is now the Praça da Piedade (Square of Piety), ended up lending its name to the historical and architectural complex of Pelourinho, part of the city's upper town.\n\nSince 1992, the Pelourinho neighborhood has been subject to a nearly US$100 million \"restoration\" that has led to the rebuilding of hundreds of buildings' façades and the expulsion of the vast majority of the neighborhood's Afro-descendent population. This process has given rise to substantial political debate in the State of Bahia, since the Pelourinho's former residents have been for the most part excluded from the renovation's economic benefits (reaped by a few). A major restoration effort resulted in making the area a tourist attraction.\n\nSalvador's considerable wealth and status during colonial times (as capital of the colony during 250 years and which gave rise to the Pelourinho) is reflected in the magnificence of its colonial palaces, churches and convents, most of them dating from the 17th and 18th centuries. These include:\n\n\nSalvador provides visitors and residents with various sport activities. The Fonte Nova Arena, also known as Estádio Octávio Mangabeira is a football stadium inaugurated on 28 January 1951 in Salvador, Bahia, with a maximum capacity of 66,080 people. The stadium has now been replaced with a new stadium named Itaipava Arena Fonte Nova with a capacity of 56,000 people. This stadium hosted matches of 2013 FIFA Confederations Cup and the subsequent 2014 FIFA World Cup, as well as the football competition in the 2016 Summer Olympics. The stadium is owned by the Bahia government, and is the home ground of Esporte Clube Bahia. Its formal name honors Octávio Cavalcanti Mangabeira, a civil engineer, journalist, and former Bahia state governor from 1947 to 1954. The stadium is nicknamed Fonte Nova, because it is located at Ladeira das Fontes das Pedras. The stadium was in 2007 closed due to an accident, and the E.C. Bahia home matches now happen in another stadium, in Pituaçu.\n\nEsporte Clube Bahia and Esporte Clube Vitória are Salvador's main football teams. Bahia has won 2 national titles, Brazil Trophy in 1959 and the Brazilian League in 1988, while Vitória was a runner up in the Brazilian league in 1993 and Brazil Cup in 2010.\n\nSalvador has two large green areas for the practice of golf. Cajazeiras Golf and Country Club has an 18-hole course, instructors, caddies and equipment for rent. Itapuã Golf club, located in the area of the Sofitel Hotel, has a 9-hole course, equipment store, caddies and clubs for rent. Tennis is very popular among Salvador's elites, with a great number of players and tournaments in the city's private clubs. Brasil Open, the country's most important tournament happens every year in Bahia.\nDuring the last decades, volleyball has grown steadily in Salvador, especially after the gold medal won by Brazil in the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona. The most important tournaments in Bahia are the State Championship, the State League tournament and the Primavera Games, and the main teams are Associação Atlética da Bahia, Bahiano de Tênis, and Clube the Regatas Itapagipe. There are also beach volleyball events. Salvador has housed many international tournaments. Federação Bahina de Voleibol (the state league) can inform the schedule of tournaments. Bowling is practiced both by teenagers and adults in Salvador. Boliche do Aeroclube and Space Bowling are equipped with automatic lanes as well as a complete bar infrastructure.\n\nBahia's basketball league exists since 1993 and has 57 teams. The sport is very popular in the city of Salvador, especially among students. There are several courts scattered across the city, where is possible to play for free, like the one located at Bahia Sol square, where people play. There are also several gymnasiums, in clubs like Bahiano de Tênis and Associação Atlética and the Antonio Balbino Gymnasiums (popularly known as \"Balbininho\"), which is an arena that can hold up to 7,000 people.\n\nTodos os Santos Bay and Salvador's climatic conditions are ideal for competition and recreational sailing. The city is equipped with good infrastructure for practice of sailing, such as rental and sale of dock space, boat maintenance, restaurants, snack bar, convenience stores, nautical products stores, boat rental agencies, VHF and SSB communication systems, events, and total assistance to crews. The large number of sailing events organized by clubs and syndicates, like oceanic races and typical boats (wooden fishing boats and canoes) races, demonstrates the sport's growing force. Currently, Salvador has a national racing schedule with dozens of events, also receiving the Mini Transat 6.50 and Les Illes du Soleil races.\n\nRowing boat races started in the city more than a hundred years ago. It was originally practiced by young men from traditional families, who spent their summer vacations there. The sport is a leisure option in Cidade Baixa (the lower part of the city). Esporte Clube Vitória and Clube São Salvador were the pioneers in the sport. Nowadays, these two entities and also Clube de Regatas Itapagipe lead the competitions that take place in the city. With the recent renovation of the Dique do Tororó area, Salvador received new lanes for the practice of the sport.\n\n\nSalvador's Twin towns and sister cities are:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6562187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6562187", "title": "Scott Oden", "text": "Scott Oden\n\nScott Oden (born June 24, 1967) is an American writer best known for his historical novels set in Ancient Egypt and Ancient Greece. His work imitates the styles and themes of the 1930s pulps, most notably the historical fiction and fantasy of Texan author Robert E. Howard.\n\nOden was born in Columbus, Indiana in 1967. He graduated from Albert P. Brewer High School in 1985 and attended John C. Calhoun State Community College in Decatur, Alabama, where he studied English and History. Oden began writing at the age of 14, and his first published work was a role-playing game called \"Rogue Warrior\" in 1986—only memorable, Oden says, for the artwork supplied by a teen-aged Cully Hamner.\n\nOden's breakthrough novel was 2005's \"Men of Bronze\". It was followed in 2006 by \"Memnon\" and in 2010 with \"The Lion of Cairo\", which mixed pulp-style action and sorcery with Crusader politics in Fatimid Egypt.\n\nOden identifies his writing influences as Robert E. Howard, Mary Renault, Harold Lamb, Karl Edward Wagner, and Steven Pressfield.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1694778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1694778", "title": "Sicani", "text": "Sicani\n\nThe Sicani (Greek Σικανοί \"Sikanoi\") or Sicanians were one of three ancient peoples of Sicily present at the time of Phoenician and Greek colonization. The Sicani dwelt east of the Elymians and west of the Sicels, having, according to Diodorus Siculus, the boundary with the last in the ancient Himera river (Salso) after a series of battles between these tribes.\n\nThe Sicani are thought to be the oldest inhabitants of Sicily with a recorded name. The Greek historian Thucydides claimed they immigrated from the Iberian Peninsula (perhaps Valencia) driven by the Ligurians from the river Sicanus, drawing his information from the Sicilian historian Antiochus of Syracuse, but his basis for saying this is unknown. Timaeus of Tauromenium considered them as aboriginal. Some modern scholars think the Sicani may have been an Illyrian tribe that gained control of areas previously inhabited by native tribes. Archaeological excavation has shown that they had received some Mycenaean influence.\n\nThe Elymians are thought to be the next recorded people to settle Sicily, perhaps from the Aegean, Anatolia, or Liguria. They settled in the north-west corner of the island, forcing the Sicanians to move across eastward. The Sicels were the next to arrive, from mainland Italy, and settled in the east. Historical records start with the Phoenicians, who established colonies in the 11th century BCE, and especially with the Greeks, who founded the colony of Syracuse, which eventually became the largest Greek city, in 734 BCE. Other Greek colonies were established around the island. The indigenous Sicilians were gradually absorbed by these colonizing peoples and finally disappeared as distinct peoples under Roman occupation.\n\nHerodotos: The History, VII.170-171\n\nMinos, according to tradition, went to Sicania, or Sicily, as it is now called, in search of Daedalus, and there perished by a violent death.\n\nA few short inscriptions using the Greek alphabet have been found in the extinct Sicanian language. Except for names, they have not been translated, and the language is unclassified due to lack of data.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35366545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35366545", "title": "Slovak Red Cross Museum", "text": "Slovak Red Cross Museum\n\nThe Slovak Red Cross Museum (Slovakian: Múzeum Slovenského Červeného kríža) or simply SCK Museum is a specialized museum of the Slovak Red Cross with a nationwide scope. The museum operates under the authority of the Supreme Board of the Slovak Red Cross as an independent entity registered in the Slovak Ministry of Culture's Museum register.\n\nIts mission is to document, research, preserve, collect, interpret and exhibit significant objects and themes in the areas of Red Cross history and humanitarian history in the territory of what is now the Slovak Republic. It is also Slovak's largest archive on humanitarian history of Slovakia.\n\nIn the year 2000, the Supreme Body of the Slovak Red Cross entrusted Dr. Zora Mintalová - Zubercová to found the Slovak Red Cross Museum. The museum was established on February 1, 2000 and as soon as on February 24, 2000 it was ceremonially opened by an exhibition named „The Red Cross at Peace and War Times“.\n\nIt is headquartered in the 1927 former dispensary building of the Red Cross in Martin, Slovakia.\nThe town of Martin was choose as the seat of the Slovak Red Cross Museum, because it has got a long Red Cross tradition. In 1924 – 1938, Martin was the seat of the Slovak division of the Czechoslovak RC. This is mostly the credit of Dr. Alica Masaryková, the first president of the Czechoslovak RC (CSRC). She ensured and organized nationwide activities of the Red Cross from Martin: sanitary movement, nursing, humanitarian aid, activities of young CSRC members and many others. An extensive publishing\nactivity of the CSRC had been associated with the names of renowned Slovak writers. The museum thoroughly documents and presents these history activities of the Red Cross in Slovakia.\n\nAs a result of its scientific and research activities the museum provides 2 to 3 premiere exhibitions each year. It also publishes books and textbooks on humanitarian history as well as on Slovak Red Cross history. The SCK-museum offers through its school awareness program specialized lectures on international humanitarian law for schools and other organizations, to teach the students the basic humanitarian principles and to promote humanism among the young generation. \nDocuments and catalogues of the museum archive are provided through the museum's science program to researchers and students for preparation of their projects, seminars, or theses.\n\nIn the year 2006 the SCK museum organized an international scientific conference \"Červený Kríž, Alica G. Masaryková a Slovensko\" under the patronage of the first lady of the Slovak Republic, Mrs. Silvia Gašparovičová. The conference was hosted in the Milan Rastislav Štefánik Institute in Martin. Among the 97 invited speakers and guests were also Sylvia Countess of Limerick, CBE; Dr. Marie L. Neudorflova from the Czech Academy of Sciences, Dr. Bohumila Ferenčuhová from the Slovak Academy of Sciences etc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "253129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=253129", "title": "Succession of states", "text": "Succession of states\n\nSuccession of states is a theory and practice in international relations regarding \"successor states\". A successor state is a sovereign state over a territory and populace that was previously under the sovereignty of another state. The theory has its root in 19th-century diplomacy. A successor state often acquires a new international legal personality, which is distinct from a continuing state, also known as a continuator, which despite change to its borders retains the same legal personality and possess all its existing rights and obligations (such as a rump state).\n\nA state succession can be characterized as either being \"universal\" or \"partial\". A universal state succession occurs when one state is completely extinguished and its sovereignty is replaced by that of one or more successor states. A partial state succession occurs when the state continues to exist after it has lost control of a part of its territory.\n\nAn example of a partial state succession is the case of the split of Bangladesh from Pakistan, there was no challenge to Pakistan's claim to continue to exist and to retain its membership of the United Nations: it was a continua tor and not a successor. Bangladesh eventually was recognized as a new state: it was a successor and had to apply for UN membership.\n\nAn example of a universal state succession is the dissolution of Czechoslovakia. Neither part claimed any continuity: both the Czech Republic and Slovakia were new successor states.\n\nConsequent upon the acquisition of international personality, the difficult matter of succession to treaty rights and obligations arises.\nSuccession may refer to the transfer of rights, obligations, and/or property from a previously well-established \"prior\" state (the predecessor state) to the new one (the successor state). Transfer of rights, obligations, and property can include overseas assets (embassies, monetary reserves, museum artifacts), participation in treaties, membership in international organizations, and debts. Often a state chooses piecemeal whether or not it wants to be considered the successor state. \n\nA special case arises, however, when the predecessor state was signatory to a human rights treaty, since it would be desirable to hold the successor state accountable to the terms of that treaty, regardless of the successor state's desires. Daniel Patrick O'Connelll wrote, \"Practice is tending towards a de facto succession to at least those conventions which have a humanitarian aim.\"\n\nIn an attempt to codify the rules of succession of states, the Vienna Convention on Succession of States in respect of Treaties was drafted in 1978. It entered into force on November 6, 1996. Only 22 states are currently parties to the convention.\n\nA difficult question is what the consequences are for the inhabitants of a territory undergoing state succession. If the succession is partial, the inhabitants can become nationals of a state whose territory they reside outside of. If the succession is universal, they can become stateless, as the state that they held citizenship to ceases to exist. O'Connell wrote:\n\nIn the first place, there is considerable disagreement as to the manner in which change of nationality may be brought about. One school of thought asserts that the nationality of inhabitants of absorbed territory is automatically changed at the moment of the substitution of the one State for the other. A second option considers that the inhabitants in question acquire the nationality of the successor state only by an express or tacit submission to the new sovereign. The more recent and widely accepted theory regards nationality as a matter solely of domestic jurisdiction, and contends that the successor State has a discretion as to the manner in which it extends its nationality to the inhabitants of territory which it acquires.\n\nOther scholars disagree and instead claim that the population is naturalized and receives citizenship of the new state. Charles Hyde wrote:\n\nWhenever a State acquires from another part of its territory, the inhabitants of the area transferred, who were nationals of the former sovereign, are, in the absence of an agreement collectively naturalized.\n\nIan Brownlie wrote:\n\nthe evidence is overwhelmingly in support of the view that the population follows the change of sovereignty in matters of nationality\n\nRudolf Graupner wrote:\n\nMost treaties on international law asserts that territorial change effects \"automatically\" a change of the nationality concerned unless there be special stipulations in the respective treaties. Which people are affected is often in dispute, but the people who are actually concerned are said to become automatically nationals of the successor State, i.e. they lose the old and immediately acquire the new nationality through the very act of annexation, cession, etc. Mostly, the existence of a rule of international law to that effect is assumed.\n\nIn their application to the acquisition of independence, distinctions should be drawn between different cases though the line of demarcation is not always clear:\n\n\nThere are several recent examples where succession of states, as described above, has not been entirely adhered to. This is mostly a list of the exceptions that have occurred since the creation of the United Nations in 1945. In previous historical periods, the exceptions would be too many to list.\n\nThe Taliban state in Afghanistan (the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan) became the \"de facto\" government of nearly all the country in the mid-1990s, but the Afghan Northern Alliance was still recognised by many nations and retained the UN seat.\n\nThe People's Republic of China (PRC) was established in 1949 in Mainland China, claiming \"succession\" from the Republic of China (ROC). However, the succession of the PRC as the state of \"China\" was not initially recognized by many states because of Cold War politics and because the ROC continued to exist on the island of Taiwan and other islands, such as Penghu, Kinmen, Matsu. Pratas and Taiping. Despite this situation, the ROC in Taiwan maintained their membership as \"China\" in the United Nations, and a permanent seat on the UN Security Council. However, the PRC was granted the seat of \"China\" in the United Nations and Security Council in 1971, in place of the ROC whose recognition was withdrawn and the representatives it had sent were expelled as unlawful representatives of China. This was done through the adoption of General Assembly Resolution 2758. , the PRC exercises sovereignty over mainland China, while the ROC continues to be unrecognised by the United Nations but exercises sovereignty over the Taiwan Area, with both claiming they are the sole legitimate government of both the mainland and Taiwan.\n\nIreland, then called the Irish Free State, seceded from the United Kingdom in 1922. The new state took the view that when a new state comes into being after formerly being part of an older state, its acceptance of treaty relationships established by the older state is a matter for the new state to determine by express declaration, or by conduct in the case of each individual treaty. In practice, however, the Irish regarded the commercial and administrative treaties of the United Kingdom previously applying to the territory of the Irish Free State as remaining in force.\n\nIsrael took the view that, by virtue of its declaration of independence in 1948, a new international personality was created and that it started with a clean slate and was bound only by such of the former international obligations affecting the territory as Israel might accept.\n\nWhen the Democratic Kampuchea led by Pol Pot was militarily displaced by the Vietnamese-backed People's Republic of Kampuchea, the country's United Nations seat was held by Democratic Kampuchea for many years.\n\nThere is some debate over whether the modern Republic of Turkey is a continuing state to the Ottoman Empire or a successor. The two entities fought on opposing sides in the Turkish War of Independence (1919–23), and even briefly co-existed as separate administrative units (whilst at war with one another): Turkey with its capital in Ankara and the Ottoman Empire from Istanbul, but this type of scenario is also common in civil wars. The nationalist faction, led by Mustafa Kemal who defected from the Ottoman army, established the modern republic as a nation state (or new government regime) by defeating the opposing elements in the independence war. There remains debate whether the Turkish War of Independence was a war of independence, or a civil war that led to a regime change.\n\nWhen Pakistan became independent it claimed that it was automatically a member of the United Nations, as British India had been a founding member of the United Nations despite its colonial status. The United Nations Secretariat however expressed the following opinion:\n\nInternational convention since the end of the Cold War has come to distinguish two distinct circumstances where such privileges are sought by such a successor state, in only the first of which may such successor states assume the name or privileged international position of their predecessor. The first set of circumstances arose at the dissolution of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR) in 1991. One of this federation's constituent republics, the Russian Federation has declared itself to be \"the continuator state of the USSR\" on the grounds that it contained 51% of the population of the USSR and 77% of its territory. In consequence, Russia agreed that it would acquire the USSR's seat as a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council. This was also accepted by the rest of the former states of the USSR; in a letter dated 24 December 1991, Boris Yeltsin, at the time President of the Russian Federation, informed the Secretary-General that the membership of the Soviet Union in the Security Council and all other United Nations organs was being continued by the Russian Federation with the support of the 11 member countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States. All Soviet embassies became Russian embassies.\n\nOn the other hand, the Baltic states represent a special case. An important tenet of the modern states of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania is that their incorporation into the Soviet Union from 1940 to 1991 constituted an illegal occupation. In 1991 when each Baltic state regained their independence they claimed continuity directly from their pre-1940 status. Many other states share this view, and as such, these states were not considered either predecessor or successor states of the Soviet Union. As a consequence, the Baltic states were able to simply re-establish diplomatic relations with countries, re-affirm pre-1940 treaties still in force, and resume membership to international organisations.\n\nAfter four of the six constituent republics of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia seceded in 1991 and 1992, the rump state, renamed the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, stated it was the continuation of the state of Yugoslavia—against the objections of the newly independent republics. Representatives from Belgrade continued to hold the original Yugoslavian UN seat—however, the United States refused to recognize it. The remaining territory of the federation was less than half of the population and territory of the former federation. In 1992 the Security Council on September 19 (Resolution 777) and the General Assembly on September 22, decided to refuse to allow the new federation to sit in the General Assembly under the name of \"Yugoslavia\" on the theory that the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia had dissolved. The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (later renamed Serbia and Montenegro) was admitted as a new member to the United Nations in 2000; in 2006, Montenegro declared independence and Serbia continued to hold the federation's seat. Additionally, Kosovo declared independence in 2008.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7774845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7774845", "title": "Timeline of the Three Kingdoms period", "text": "Timeline of the Three Kingdoms period\n\nThis is a timeline of the Three Kingdoms period (220–280) of Chinese history. In a strict academic sense, the Three Kingdoms period refers to the interval between the founding of the state of Cao Wei (220–266) in 220 and the conquest of the state of Eastern Wu (229–280) by the Western Jin dynasty (265–316) in 280. However, many Chinese historians and laymen extend the starting point of this period back to the Yellow Turban Rebellion that took place in 184 during the late Eastern Han Dynasty (25–220).\n\n"}
{"id": "27056293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27056293", "title": "Vasile Bahnaru", "text": "Vasile Bahnaru\n\nVasile Bahnaru (born October 24, 1949, Micleuşeni) is a historian from the Republic of Moldova.\n\nVasile Bahnaru was a founder of the Popular Front of Moldova. He was a member of the Commission for the Study of the Communist Dictatorship in Moldova, and currently is the acting director of the Academy's Philology Institute.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25965826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25965826", "title": "William Robertson Coe II", "text": "William Robertson Coe II\n\nWilliam Robertson Coe II (28 November 1926 – 23 November 2009) was an American academic, archaeologist and Mayanist scholar, renowned for his extensive field work and publications on pre-Columbian Maya civilization sites. He is best known for his decades of work and investigations at Tikal, the major site in the Petén Basin region of modern-day Guatemala and one of the largest and most dominant Maya sites of the Classic period. Coe led the excavation and investigation project at Tikal during the 1960s, and was responsible for coordinating much of the site's restoration work and compiling the voluminous documentation of the field seasons' reports. His academic career was spent in association with the University of Pennsylvania, where he studied and later taught as professor in anthropology, and its Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology where he curated the museum's American collection.\n\n"}
{"id": "15961060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15961060", "title": "William Saturno", "text": "William Saturno\n\nWilliam Andrew \"Bill\" Saturno is an American archaeologist and Mayanist scholar who has made significant contributions toward the study of the pre-Columbian Maya civilization. As of February 2015, Saturno holds a position as Assistant Professor in Archaeology at Boston University's College of Arts and Sciences (CAS). . He is also the Director of the Proyecto San Bartolo-Xultun at the Instito de Antropologia e Historia in Guatemala, a National Space SciResearch Scientist at the Marshall Space Flight Center, as well as a Research Associate at the Peabody Museum at Harvard University. Prior to his position at BU, Saturno was a lecturer at the University of New Hampshire.\nSaturno is most well known for his discovery of the discovery in 2001 of one of the oldest extant murals yet discovered in the Maya region, at the site of San Bartolo in northeastern Guatemala.[1] Of this discovery, he has said that it was his favorite and most challenging experience of his career, and that \"being the first person to see them [the murals] after more than 2,000 years, uncovering them bit by bit, with each part more beautiful than the last, is an experience unlikely to be matched.\" \nIn 2010, Saturno and Franco Rossi discovered what they believe to be a workroom of a Xultún record keeper. The Mayan hieroglyphics at the site included representations of dates roughly 7000 years in the future, casting doubt on the speculation that the conclusion of the Long Count calendar would result in a 2012 doomsday scenario\nHis current research interests are New World and Mesoamerican civilizations, landscape archaeology, remote sensing, Geographic Information Systems (GIS) application in archaeology, Mesoamerican iconography and religion, the evolution of complex societies, and archaeology in pop culture.\n\nBorn in Albany, New York, Saturno wanted to be an archaeologist since he was a small child, and first became interested in ancient Maya civilization when he visited the Maya site of Palenque while working in Mexico. Having worked in archaeology for over 20 years, in an interview with National Geographic he stated: \"I see being an archaeologist as both a great privilege and a great responsibility. I have been entrusted with the recovery, interpretation, and preservation of the material remains of the past, with the history of an ancient people, and the heritage of a modern one.\" For the last 7 years, when he is not teaching or conducting field work, Saturno has led scholarly tours in Guatemala and Maya Mexico for Archaeological Tours.\nSaturno currently lives with his wife and their three sons James, David, and Giancarlo, in Clinton, Connecticut and enjoys soccer, opera, and snowboarding in his free time.\n\nHe graduated summa cum laude from the University of Arizona with a B.A. in Anthropology and Latin American Studies after attending Binghampton University for a time. He then acquired his Master of Arts Degree from Harvard University in 1995 and his PhD in Anthropology from Harvard University in 2000.\n\nDuring his time at Harvard University, he worked as a Teaching Fellow, Undergraduate Tutor, and Teaching Assistant in the Anthropology Department. Following the completion of their PhD program, Saturno then went on to become a lecturer in 2000, and an Assistant Professor in 2003. At this time he also became a Research Scientist at NASA, in the Marshall Space Flight Center.\n\nSaturno has been awarded more than 2.3 million dollars from over 45 grants throughout his career as an archaeologist, including the extremely prestigious Peabody Museum Research Grant, National Endowment for the Humanities Collaborative Research Grant, and the Ambassador's Fund for Cultural Preservation for his work in San Bartolo and the, National Aeronautics and Space Administration IPA for work in Archaeological Remote Sensing (CV).\n\nHis most famous discovery to date, Saturno has worked continuously in San Bartolo since 2001 in an ongoing project. Work originally centered on the Preclassic murals of San Bartolo, but more recently is focused on the large, nearby city of Xultun and the changes in Maya politics and kingship from the Preclassic to European contact.\n\nSince 2013, he has directed field work in Northern Peru, using remote sensing techniques like Landsat and ASTER to find archaeological features in the area and commercial sugarcane plantation environments. ancient Peruvians adapted to their coastal desert environment and how ancient land use has had lasting effects on environmental functions.\n\nHe has also conducted extensive excavation, survey, and mapping of ancient Maya and Peruvian archaeological sites, including the ancient Maya city of Copan and Rio Bravo in Belize.\n\nSaturno has written 3 books to date and contributed to over 8 compilated archaeological volumes. In 2000 he published his PhD dissertation as In the Shadow of the Acropolis: Rio Amarillo and Its Role in the Copan Polity. He published The Murals of San Bartolo, El Peten, Guatemala, Part 1: The North Wall and its companion The Murals of San Bartolo, El Peten, Guatemala, Part 2: The West Wall with noted Maya scholar Karl Taube in 2005 and 2010, respectively. He has also written several academic articles on the subjects of San Bartolo, ancient Maya religion and iconography, Maya political organization and collapse, among many other Mesoamerican subjects, most recently in the journals \"Ancient Mesoamerica\", \"American Anthropologist\", \"Antiquity\", and \"Science\".\n\nSaturno works extensively with National Geographic, from which he has received many grants, and has appeared in many of their broadcasts on the ancient Maya, and the ancient Mayan 'prophecy' about the 2012 'Apocalypse' (he very vocally disagreed with the interpretation of the Maya calendar predicting the end of the world) as well as several National Geographic LIVE events. Most recently he has appeared in National Geographic LIVE's event New Light on the Ancient Maya in 2013 and will be appearing in another of their events, In Search of the Ancient Maya, where he will be giving an overview of the archaeological history of the Classic Maya. He also was featured in The History Channel's Indiana Jones and the Ultimate Quest.\n"}
{"id": "46532003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46532003", "title": "Ġebel ġol-Baħar", "text": "Ġebel ġol-Baħar\n\nĠebel ġol-Baħar is an alleged megalithic temple located underwater off the coast of St. Julian's, Malta. The site was identified in 1999 by retired real estate investor Hubert Zeitlmair, a follower of Zecharia Sitchin, but it was never studied properly and archaeologists are not convinced that the site is actually a temple.\n\nThe site is located on an underwater plateau approximately 2 km off the coast of St. Julian's. The plateau is 900 by 500 metres long, and its highest point seems to be man-made, and is 19 metres below sea level.\n\nThe site contains large boulders which Zeitlmair believed to be man-made and not natural, and which are covered in vegetation. Zeitlmair describes it as consisting of a cluster of three stone circles with 'rooms' with a diameter of 9 to 11 metres, with parts having a height up to 6 to 10 metres. An 'avenue' goes up to the entrance of the structure, which faces east. Tracks on the seabed resembling cart ruts were also observed on the site.\n\nThe site was discovered on 13 July 1999 by Shaun Arrigo and his brother Kurt, who were working under the instructions of Hubert Zeitlmair, a retired German real estate investor interested in pseudoarchaeology. The discovery was reported in the local media in October 1999, but after some time interest died down. Further explorations of the site were conducted by Zeitlmair in November 1999 and May 2000.\n\nZeitlmair believes that the temple was built by aliens in around 10,000 BC to 12,000 BC, and was submerged at the end of the Ice Age during the Genesis flood narrative. He states that he has been guided by his \"primeval ancestors, namely... the God Pa.tha-i-da.na Asu.ara tSi.dha, and the Goddess Ashtar-tara Queen of Atlantis\" who he met on Malta. His judgment does not fit within Malta's prehistoric chronology, as the earliest known human habitation of the island began in around 5900 BC. According to him, the site bears similarities to the temple of Ħaġar Qim on mainland Malta.\n\nThe site was given the name \"Ġebel ġol-Baħar\", meaning \"Stones in the Sea\" in the Maltese language. It has also been linked with the island of Atlantis, and Zeitlmair has published a book about this in German.\n\nMaltese archaeologists are not convinced that the site is a megalithic temple. Other people who dived there said that the boulders which make up the site are not megalithic, but are modern ones which were dumped illegally.\n\nIn 2013, marine scientists at the University of Malta discovered that 20,000 years ago, the Maltese islands were indeed much larger, and were connected to Sicily with a land bridge. However, there was no mention of Ġebel ġol-Baħar during the studies.\n\nMark Rose, Online Editorial Director for the Archaeological Institute of America, has written that \"Chronology appears to be somewhat confused in Zeitlmair's interpretation. According to the web site, he sees links between the submerged \"temple\" and both Noah's Flood and the rise in sea level following the end of the Ice Age (the period to which, he told Maltamag, he hopes studies will show the Maltese temples date). Furthermore, the presence of deeper sand deposits on the west side of the \"ruins,\" the side toward Gibraltar, than on the east side is taken as an indication that the flooding of the Mediterranean by Atlantic waters (which really did occur) was involved in the inundation of the \"temple.\" The Mediterranean flooding, however, took place some five million years ago. As to the builders of the temples, Zeitlmair defers to Zechariah Sitchin.\"\n\n"}
