{"id": "39272608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39272608", "title": "Ag-gag", "text": "Ag-gag\n\nAg-gag is a term used to describe a class of anti-whistleblower laws that apply within the agriculture industry. Popularized by Mark Bittman in an April 2011 \"New York Times\" column (but used long before then by advocates), the term \"ag-gag\" typically refers to state laws that forbid the act of undercover filming or photography of activity on farms without the consent of their owner—particularly targeting whistleblowers of animal rights abuses at these facilities. These laws originated in the United States, but have also begun to appear elsewhere, such as in Australia. Some of these laws, such as the failed proposal in Pennsylvania, have a wider scope and could be used to criminalize actions by activists in other industries.\n\nSupporters of ag-gag laws have argued that they serve to protect the agriculture industry from the negative repercussions of exposés by whistleblowers. The proliferation of ag-gag laws has been criticized by various groups, arguing that the laws are intended primarily to censor animal rights abuses by the agriculture industry from the public, create a chilling effect in reporting these violations, and violate the right to freedom of speech.\n\nAg-gag laws emerged in the early 1990s in response to underground activists with the Animal Liberation Front movement. In Kansas, Montana and North Dakota, state legislators made it a crime to take pictures or shoot video in an animal facility without the consent of the facility's owner.\n\nIn 2002, the conservative organization American Legislative Exchange Council (ALEC) drafted the \"Animal and Ecological Terrorism Act\", a model law for distribution to lobbyists and state lawmakers. The model law proposed to prohibit \"entering an animal or research facility to take pictures by photograph, video camera, or other means with the intent to commit criminal activities or defame the facility or its owner\". It also created a \"terrorist registry\" for those convicted under the law. \n\nThe whistleblower advocacy project Food Integrity Campaign (FIC), a campaign of the non-profit organization the Government Accountability Project calls undercover video of livestock facilities by whistleblowers essential:\n\nAg-gag laws have also drawn criticism on constitutional grounds by eminent legal scholars such as Erwin Chemerinsky, as a violation of the First Amendment for restricting unpopular forms of speech. In August 2015, a U.S. district court ruled such a law passed by the state of Idaho to be unconstitutional as a violation of the First Amendment; Judge B. Lynn Winmill stated that \"Although the State may not agree with the message certain groups seek to convey about Idaho's agricultural production facilities, such as releasing secretly recorded videos of animal abuse to the Internet and calling for boycotts, it cannot deny such groups equal protection of the laws in their exercise of their right to free speech.\"\n\nIn February 2014, Idaho Governor Butch Otter signed Idaho's \"ag-gag\" bill, the \"Agricultural Security Act\", into law, which imposed fines and jail time on activists who secretly film abuse on Idaho's commercial farms. It came about as the result of the animal rights organization Mercy for Animals releasing a video of animal abuse by workers on Bettencourt Dairy farms.\n\nOn August 3, 2015, the Agricultural Security Act was struck down as unconstitutional by the U.S. District Court for the District of Idaho as a violation of the First Amendment. This decision was appealed, and parts of Idaho’s law were struck down by the Ninth Circuit Court on First Amendment grounds in early 2018.\n\nIn February 2015, Western Australia Senator Chris Back introduced Criminal Code Amendment (Animal Protection) Bill 2015 to the Australian Senate which would add a new section creating an offense if a person created a \"record\" of animal abuse and then failed to hand it in within 5 days to authorities.\n\nProponents of the laws note that public documentation of factory farming practices will result in negative consequences for the industry. \"State Sen. David Hinkins (R), who sponsored Utah's law, said it was aimed at the 'vegetarian people who are trying to kill the animal industry.'\" When investigators publicize documentation of factory farms, the company generally loses business. For instance, in 2007, an undercover investigator from The Humane Society of the United States visited the Hallmark/Westland slaughterhouse in Chino, California and filmed downed cows, too sick to stand up, being \"dragged by chains and pushed by forklifts to the kill floor\". A large amount of the meat from this slaughterhouse had been consumed through the National School Lunch Program, and the footage compelled \"the U.S. Department of Agriculture to announce what was at the time the largest meat recall in U.S. history\". Similarly, a Mercy for Animals investigation at Sparboe Farms resulted in McDonald's, Target, Sam's Club, and Supervalu all dropping Sparboe as an egg supplier. The investigation revealed cages full of dead hens rotting alongside living hens who were still laying eggs for human consumption. The investigator documented standard practices such as painful debeaking without painkillers and tossing live birds into plastic bags to suffocate, along with other behaviour deemed \"sadistic\" and \"malicious\".\n\nFifty-nine groups, including a wide variety of welfare, civil liberties, environmental, food safety and First Amendment organizations have publicly stated opposition to ag-gag laws. Some of these groups include the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), Animal Legal Defense Fund (ALDF), American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA), Amnesty International USA, Farm Sanctuary, Food and Water Watch, Food Chain Workers Alliance, Humane Society Veterinary Medical Association, International Labor Rights Forum, National Consumers League, and United Farm Workers, among many others. The statement of opposition explains:\n\nIndividuals and groups such as the ones listed above are concerned that the bills are written to hide welfare and safety violations in the animal agriculture industry from the public view. While laws aimed at restricting documentation or employee applications directly restrict documentation, the third type of law (e.g. Missouri's) is said to be intended to promote the rapid prosecution of any business displaying such practices. However, critics of the bills contend that when all material must be turned over to authorities in such a short amount of time (generally within twenty-four hours), establishments can easily cover up or change their practices or fire the employee before further documentation can occur, making a thorough investigation of any farm virtually impossible.\n\nOn July 22, 2013, the ALDF, PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) and others filed a lawsuit challenging Utah's ag-gag law on constitutional grounds.\n\nIn December 2013, the ALDF and PETA filed a lawsuit that challenged the constitutionality of \"ag gag\" laws under the First Amendment. Utah's law makes it illegal to obtain access to an agricultural operation under false pretenses, such as providing inaccurate information on a job application, which is one of the ways that investigative reporters document violations and abuses.\n\nIn March 2014, a coalition of organizations dedicated to civil liberties, animal protection, food safety, labor rights, and the environment, along with journalists, filed a federal lawsuit to overturn Idaho's newly passed \"ag gag\" statute, signed into law by Idaho governor C.L. \"Butch\" Otter on February 28. The lawsuit challenges the constitutionality of Idaho's ag gag law (Idaho Code sec. 18-7042), and was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Idaho by national nonprofits Animal Legal Defense Fund (ALDF), People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), the American Civil Liberties Union of Idaho (ACLU), and the Center for Food Safety (CFS). Idaho is the seventh state to pass an ag gag law, and the first to do so since 2012.\n\nIn August, 2015, Idaho's law was declared unconstitutional by a Federal Court, and Utah's law was declared unconstitutional in July, 2017.\n\n\n\nNovember, 2018\n"}
{"id": "7554792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7554792", "title": "American studies in the United Kingdom", "text": "American studies in the United Kingdom\n\nAmerican studies as an academic discipline is taught at some British universities and incorporated in several school subjects, such as history, politics and literature. While the United States of America is the focus of most study, American Studies can also include the study of all the Americas, including South America and Canada. The methods of study are interdisciplinary, and students and researchers come from many fields, including anthropology, cultural studies, history, literature, film studies, gender studies and economics. Because of Britain's long association with the Americas, there is also a history of comment and analysis of the geography, culture and peoples of America, from Sir Walter Raleigh and Charles Dickens to Rudyard Kipling and Alistair Cooke.\n\nAmerican Studies in Britain is closely related to the discipline in America, and many degree programmes also involve a period of study in the U.S. or Canada, ranging in time from a month to an academic year. However, an 'outsider's' view of a foreign culture, a variety of intellectual trends, such as the Birmingham school of cultural studies, and institutional arrangements often lead to a different approach to that pursued in the U.S. The support of the U.S. Embassy and other official U.S. bodies and awards also shows that American Studies has also been used to promote closer ties and greater understanding between the two countries.\n\nBecause of Britain's involvement in North America, American Studies has a long history as an activity in British Higher Education. This history has given American Studies in Britain a different flavour to that pursued in the U.S. The earliest accounts of the British colonisation and exploration of North America may be considered as the first contributions to this field, which now incorporates the output of the work of many university departments, scholarly journals and independent scholars. Many libraries, museums and archives in the United Kingdom also support such work.\n\nAmerican Studies as an academic course of study is generally considered to have begun in the U.S. in the late 1930s, at a time when little research or study was undertaken in Britain. During World War II, the British government encouraged the study of America and the American government began to see the need to support American Studies abroad during the Cold War, in the belief that \"the more people knew about the United States, the more they would come to admire its political and economic values, and its foreign policy\". In the early 1950s, the Rockefeller Foundation and the United States Education Commission (USEC) organised a series of Anglo-American conferences, which became known as the 'Fulbright Conferences' after the Fulbright Act of 1946. The British Association for American Studies (BAAS) was founded at the fourth conference in 1955; many of its members were influenced by the experiences of exchange programmes with the United States, such as the Commonwealth Fellowships, and contacts with Rhodes Scholars, and realised that much American culture and literature was unknown or misunderstood. The impetus to form the Association came from the Cultural Attaché at the U.S. Embassy in London, Dick Taylor, who wrote to the members of the eventual founding committee that he knew of \"concrete interest\" from an unnamed American foundation that wished to support the founding of an American Studies association. Taylor also proposed the founding of a centre for American Studies at Ditchley Park, with an American school and conference centre along the lines of the British School at Athens. The fledging Association was unable to support this venture and, concerned with their independence from the U.S. State Department, unsuccessfully sought funding from the Rockefeller Foundation. Taylor's successor at the Embassy, Myron Koenig, offered a $20,000 grant to survey British library resources and $100,000 to establish the society. Membership fees provided a small income, and although BAAS accepted the grant for the library survey, they were able to decline the larger sum in the interests of intellectual and political independence. In 1956, the society received funding from the Rockefeller Foundation. BAAS has continued to provide a focus for American Studies in Britain, organising a series of conferences and administrating various awards and funds for research.\n\nAmerican Studies has always been influenced to some degree by contemporary politics. For example, the purported Special relationship between the two countries has contributed to a long tradition of scholarly exchange and support from U.S. organisations, such as the United States Department of State for the study of America in Britain. During World War II, The British Government also sought to \"counter the Hollywood image of America as a land of violence and corruption by a vigorous campaign to develop American studies\". As noted above, the development of the British university system and interest in the U.S. as a result of the Cold War and increasingly dominant U.S. popular culture led to the development of several American Studies courses at institutions including the universities of Keele and East Anglia.\n\nMore recently, in 2004 the Guardian columnist, Polly Toynbee suggested in an article revealingly called \"A degree in bullying and self-interest? No thanks\" that the Iraq war and the so-called \"War on Terror\" had led to a positive resistance to American Studies. Others, such as Shelley Fisher Fishkin argued that American Studies needs more transnational perspectives and that the U.S.'s engagement with the world demands more, not less, study.\n\nUniversity growth allowed the expansion of American Studies in Britain during the 1960s and 1970s. By the 1980s, the European Association for American Studies estimated that there were at least two thousand Americanists employed in Britain and the Continent. Most major British universities could boast a historian of the U.S. or a literature specialist. American Studies also began to extend its range, incorporating Film Studies and the newer fields of Cultural and Gender Studies. Americanists also became to seek the 'meaning of America' outside of the traditional areas of political institutions and dominant social class, but in marginalized groups. During the 1980s, as Pells comments, the canon became 'contemporary, ethnic, and feminist'. The decade also witnessed a tranche of retirements from the profession, which, because of financial constraints on universities, were not replaced. Several key figures, such as Marcus Cunliffe, left Britain for American university posts. By the early 1990s, some American Studies departments were closed.\n\nThe end of the Cold War in the late 1980s marked a revival in interest in the remaining superpower, and student numbers rose, along with numbers of professors. Most notable was the Rothermere Centre at Oxford (established 2001.) This revival was generally maintained until the controversial election of Bush in 2000, then 9/11, the subsequent \"War on Terror\" and the invasion of Iraq which put together encouraged a critical attitude to the United States in the public sphere which eventually had a negative effect on recruitment and caused a number of programmes to close (for instance at Reading) or amalgamate with English, History or other departments (see above reference to Polly Toynbee.)\n\nWith the election of Barack Obama in 2008 sparking renewed interest in the United States and its history and culture, the British Association for American Studies reported increasing demand for American-themed modules in many undergraduate degree programmes and a steady rise in applications to American Studies courses. That trend was exemplified when, in 2012, the announcement was made by Northumbria University of the most ambitious new initiative in American Studies for more than a generation, spearheaded by Brian Ward, former professor of American Studies at the University of Manchester. The first cohort of American Studies undergraduates was admitted to Northumbria in September 2013.\n\n\n\n\nThomas Paine, William Cobbett, Charles Dickens, Anthony Trollope, Rudyard Kipling, Alistair Cooke and Christopher Hitchens, have written about the political and cultural differences between Britain and America.\n\n\nThe Fulbright Program, which began in 1948, has been the backbone of many scholarly exchanges between Britain and the United States\n\nAs a heterodox discipline, American Studies incorporates many fields, from literature to international relations. Various schools, such as that of the Myth and Symbol approach have strongly influenced research. Although these approaches can be seen in [American Studies] in the U.S. and elsewhere, there have been distinctive British contributions.\n\nThe Centre for Contemporary Cultural Studies was a research centre at the University of Birmingham. It was founded in 1964 by Richard Hoggart, its first director. Its object of study was the then new field of Cultural Studies and it soon became known as the Birmingham School. Although no clear method emerged, the influence of Marxism and other theories, such as post-structuralism informed a politically engaged, sophisticated analysis of contemporary society. Its members included Jorge Larrain, the Chilean sociologist and cultural historian, author of \"Identity and Modernity in Latin America\". The School has influenced many Area Studies scholars, including American Studies specialists.\n\nO-levels and A-levels (AS/A2) in American studies have not been offered since the introduction of GCSEs and the UK National Curriculum however, American Studies is a component of history and politics A-level curricula whilst, the civil rights movement is studied as a unit as part of GCSE History.\n\nA list of institutions can be found at the Eccles Centre for American Studies website. Currently (2008) 37 institutions offer an American Studies degree.\n\n\nAlthough many collections of materials can be located through the online or automated catalogues of archives and libraries, many resources are not listed in this fashion and may be difficult to locate.\n\n\n\nMany American newspapers are available in the United Kingdom, either in their original format or in microform. American newspapers often contain reports of events in Britain and details of the state of trans-atlantic relations. A database can be found on the\nBAAS newspaper database.\n\nA digital collection of Historical American Newspapers is held by the British Library, which complements the extensive paper and microform collections; important collections are also held by the National Library of Scotland.\n\nUnited States Congressional Serial Set is part of Readex's Archive of Americana. It is held at the British Library and the University of Oxford. The University of Sussex holds the full set of the Archive of Americana.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17139861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17139861", "title": "Anki (software)", "text": "Anki (software)\n\nAnki is a free and open-source spaced repetition flashcard program. \"Anki\" () is the Japanese word for \"memorization\". The SM2 algorithm, created for SuperMemo in the late 1980s, forms the basis of the spaced repetition methods employed in the program. Anki's implementation of the algorithm has been modified to allow priorities on cards and to show cards in order of their urgency. The cards are presented using HTML and may include text, images, sounds, videos, and LaTeX equations. The decks of cards, along with the user's statistics, are stored in the open SQLite format.\n\nCards are generated from information stored as \"notes\". Notes are analogous to database entries and can have an arbitrary number of fields. For example, with respect to learning a language, a note may have the following fields and example entries:\nThis example illustrates what some programs call a three-sided flashcard, but Anki's model is more general and allows any number of fields to be combined in various cards.\n\nThe user can design cards that test the information contained in each note. One card may have a question (expression) and an answer (pronunciation, meaning).\n\nBy keeping the separate cards linked to the same fact, spelling mistakes can be adjusted against all cards at the same time and Anki can ensure that related cards are not shown in too short a spacing.\n\nA special note type allows for generation of cloze deletion cards (in Anki 1.2.x, those were ordinary cards with cloze markup added using a tool in the fact editor).\n\nAnki supports synchronization with a free (but proprietary) online server called AnkiWeb. This allows users to keep decks synchronized across multiple computers, and to study online or on a cell phone.\n\nThere is a third-party open source (AGPLv3) AnkiServer software which users can run on their own local computers or servers, though it is not compatible with recent Anki versions. It also provides a RESTful API for manipulating Anki collections.\n\nAnki can automatically fill in the reading of Japanese and Chinese text. Since version 0.9.9.8.2, these features are in separate plug-ins.\n\nMore than 500 add-ons for Anki are available, often written by third-party developers. They provide support for speech synthesis, enhanced user statistics, image occlusion, incremental reading, allow for more efficient editing and creation of cards through batch editing, modify the GUI (such as through intermittent display of puppies), simplify import of flashcards from other digital sources, etc.\n\nWhile Anki's user manual encourages the creation of one's own decks for most material, there is still a large and active database of Shared Decks that users can download and use. Available decks range from foreign language decks (often constructed with frequency tables) to geography, physics, biology, chemistry and more. Various medical science decks, often made by multiple users in collaboration, are also available. \n\nAnki's scheduling algorithm is based on an older version of the SuperMemo algorithm (SM2). The Anki author states that versions 3–5 of the SuperMemo algorithm are more susceptible to incorrect scheduling. The latest SuperMemo algorithm in 2017 is SM17.\n\nThe following smartphone/tablet and Web clients are available as companions to the desktop version:\n\n\nThe flashcards and learning progress can be synchronized both ways with Anki using AnkiWeb. With AnkiDroid it is possible to have the flashcards read in several languages using text-to-speech (TTS). If a language does not exist in the Android TTS engine (e.g. Russian in the Android version Ice Cream Sandwich), a different TTS engine such as SVOX TTS Classic can be used.\n\nThe oldest mention of Anki that the developer, Damien Elmes, could find in 2011 was dated October 5, 2006, which was thus declared Anki's birthdate.\n\nIn 2010, Roger Craig obtained the all-time record for single-day winnings on the quiz show \"Jeopardy!\" after using Anki to memorize a vast number of facts.\n\nVersion 2.0 was released on 2012-10-06.\n\nVersion 2.1 was released on 2018-08-06.\n\nAn unrelated flashcard program called Anki for Palm OS was created by Copera, Inc. (formerly known as Cooperative Computers, Inc.) and released at the PalmSource conference in February 2002. Anki for Palm OS was sold from 2002 to 2006 as a commercial product. In late 2007, Copera, Inc. decided to release Anki for Palm OS as freeware.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54749478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54749478", "title": "Asian quota", "text": "Asian quota\n\nAn Asian quota is a type of racial quota limiting the number of people of Asian descent in an establishment, a special case of Numerus clausus. In particular, it refers to alleged educational quotas in United States higher education admissions, specifically Ivy League universities, targeting Asian Americans, specifically persons of East Asian and South Asian descent, starting in the late 1980s and ongoing, ; such allegations are denied by the universities in question. Asian quotas are compared to the earlier Jewish quotas, which limited admissions of a model minority from the 1910s to the 1950s, and was denied at the time, but whose existence is now not disputed; some have thus called Asian-Americans \"The New Jews\" of university admissions.\n\nMore generally, by various measures admissions have a bias against Asian applicants, though not necessarily a strict quota: for example, successful Asian applicants have on average higher test scores than the overall average. The perceived bias against applicants of Asian descent has been termed a \"bamboo ceiling\" or \"Asian penalty\". Alleged Asian quotas have been the subject of government investigations and lawsuits, with some minor conclusions of their existence, though no major judgements, .\n\nThe primary evidence in favor of the existence of an Asian quota in United States universities admissions is statistical: over the 1990s and 2000s, when the college-age population of Asian-American roughly doubled (and the overall college-age population increased much less), the percentage of admitted Asian-Americans at Ivy League schools not only declined, but converged to a narrow range across different schools, and has stayed relatively constant from year to year. By comparison, at schools that had race-blind policies, such as in the University of California system (notably its prestigious campuses at Berkeley, UCLA, San Diego, Davis, and Irvine) and the California Institute of Technology, Asian-American admissions increased in line with population, and at academic contests, such as International Science Olympiads, Asian representation increased substantially over this period. Regarding Harvard admissions, Ron Unz writes:\n\nWhile California is more Asian than other regions of the United States, it admits students nationally and internationally, and thus the above numbers are not solely reflective of regional demographics. By contrast, in New York City, which has the country's largest urban Asian population, the prestigious specialized high schools of Stuyvesant High School and Bronx Science have majority Asian student bodies, which increased over the 1990s and 2000s, but at Columbia University, which is in the Ivy League, the Asian undergraduate population fell from 22.7% in 1993 to 15.6% in 2011.\n\nIvy League universities deny that there is an Asian quota. Due to the sensitivity of college admissions and racial preferences generally, and legal concerns (government investigations, court decisions, and ongoing or future litigation), official statements are largely blanket denials, and a defense of holistic admission, rather than specific answers to charges. Some historians and former admissions officers likewise deny that there is an Asian quota or a bias against Asian applicants, or conclude as much.\n\nMore generally, the bias in test scores (the fact that successful Asian applicants have higher test scores than successful applicants overall) is ascribed to applicants being judged on more than test scores. Stated formally, rather than higher test scores among successful Asian applicants meaning that an individual Asian applicant must meet a higher bar than an otherwise identical non-Asian applicant, it may simply be a reflection that Asians have \"relatively\" higher test scores: compared to the overall applicant pool, Asians have higher test scores, and a borderline Asian applicant will have higher test scores, but be lower on all other non-academic measures, than the average borderline applicant.\n\nRacial quotas are illegal in United States college admissions, but race can be used as a factor in admissions decisions (affirmative action), as decided in \"Regents of the Univ. of Cal. v. Bakke\" (1978) and re-affirmed in \"Fisher v. University of Texas\" (2013). Lawsuits have been filed on this basis, including:\nHarvard University was sued in 2018 for allegedly downgrading Asian Americans application scores to reduce amount of admission. The United States Justice Department later stated that Harvard did not demonstrate that they did not discriminate during admissions based on race.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "669025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=669025", "title": "Autocomplete", "text": "Autocomplete\n\nAutocomplete, or word completion, is a feature in which an application predicts the rest of a word a user is typing. In graphical user interfaces, users can typically press the tab key to accept a suggestion or the down arrow key to accept one of several.\n\nAutocomplete speeds up human-computer interactions when it correctly predicts the word a user intends to enter after only a few characters have been typed into a text input field. It works best in domains with a limited number of possible words (such as in command line interpreters), when some words are much more common (such as when addressing an e-mail), or writing structured and predictable text (as in source code editors).\n\nMany autocomplete algorithms learn new words after the user has written them a few times, and can suggest alternatives based on the learned habits of the individual user.\n\nThe original purpose of word prediction software was to help people with physical disabilities increase their typing speed, as well as to help them decrease the number of keystrokes needed in order to complete a word or a sentence. The need to increase speed is noted by the fact that people who use speech-generating devices generally produce speech at a rate that is less than 10% as fast as people who use oral speech. But the function is also very useful for anybody who writes text, and especially useful for people who often use long and hard to spell technical or medical terms, like medical doctors.\n\nAutocomplete or word completion works so that when the writer writes the first letter or letters of a word, the program predicts one or more possible words as choices. If the word he intends to write is included in the list he can select it, for example by using the number keys. If the word that the user wants is not predicted, the writer must enter the next letter of the word. At this time, the word choice(s) is altered so that the words provided begin with the same letters as those that have been selected. When the word that the user wants appears it is selected, and the word is inserted into the text. In another form of word prediction, words most likely to follow the just written one are predicted, based on recent word pairs used. Word prediction uses language modeling, where within a set vocabulary the words are most likely to occur are calculated. Along with language modeling, basic word prediction on AAC devices is often coupled with a recency model, where words that are used more frequently by the AAC user are more likely to be predicted. Word prediction software often also allows the user to enter their own words into the word prediction dictionaries either directly, or by \"learning\" words that have been written. Some search returns related to genitals or other vulgar terms are often omitted from autocompletion technologies.\n\nThere are standalone tools that add autocomplete functionality to existing applications. These programs monitor user keystrokes and suggests a list of words based on first typed letter(s). Examples are Typingaid and Letmetype. LetMeType, freeware, is no longer developed, the author has published the source code and allows anybody to continue development. Typingaid, also freeware, is actively developed. Intellicomplete, both a freeware and payware version, works only in certain programs which hook into the intellicomplete server program. Many Autocomplete programs can also be used to create a Shorthand list. The original autocomplete software was Smartype, which dates back to the late 1980s and is still available today. It was initially developed for medical transcriptionists working in WordPerfect for MS/DOS, but it now functions for any application in any Windows or Web-based program.\n\nShorthand, also called Autoreplace, is a related feature that involves automatic replacement of a particular string with another one, usually one that is longer and harder to type, as \"myname\" with \"Lee John Nikolai François Al Rahman\". This can also quietly fix simple typing errors, such as turning \"teh\" into \"the\". Several Autocomplete programs, standalone or integrated in text editors, based on word lists, also include a shorthand function for often used phrases.\n\nContext completion is a text editor feature, similar to word completion, which completes words (or entire phrases) based on the current context and context of other similar words within the same document, or within some training data set. The main advantage of context completion is the ability to predict anticipated words more precisely and even with no initial letters. The main disadvantage is the need of a training data set, which is typically larger for context completion than for simpler word completion. Most common use of context completion is seen in advanced programming language editors and IDEs, where training data set is inherently available and context completion makes more sense to the user than broad word completion would.\n\nLine completion is a type of context completion, first introduced by Juraj Simlovic in TED Notepad, in July 2006. The context in line completion is the current line, while current document poses as training data set. When user begins a line which starts with a frequently used phrase, the editor automatically completes it, up to the position where similar lines differ, or proposes a list of common continuations.\n\nAction completion in applications are standalone tools that add autocomplete functionality to an existing applications or all existing applications of a OS, based on the current context. The main advantage of Action completion is the ability to predict anticipated actions. The main disadvantage is the need of a data set. Most common use of Action completion is seen in advanced programming language editors and IDEs. But there are also action completion tools that work globally, in parallel, across all applications of the entire PC without (very) hindering the action completion of the respective applications.\n\nIn web browsers, autocomplete is done in the address bar (using items from the browser's history) and in text boxes on frequently used pages, such as a search engine's search box. Autocomplete for web addresses is particularly convenient because the full addresses are often long and difficult to type correctly. HTML5 has an autocomplete form attribute.\n\nIn e-mail programs autocomplete is typically used to fill in the e-mail addresses of the intended recipients. Generally, there are a small number of frequently used e-mail addresses, hence it is relatively easy to use autocomplete to select among them. Like web addresses, e-mail addresses are often long, hence typing them completely is inconvenient.\n\nFor instance, Microsoft Outlook Express will find addresses based on the name that is used in the address book. Google's Gmail will find addresses by any string that occurs in the address or stored name.\n\nIn search engines, autocomplete user interface features provide users with suggested queries or results as they type their query in the search box. This is also commonly called \"autosuggest\" or \"incremental search\". This type of search often relies on matching algorithms that forgive entry errors such as phonetic Soundex algorithms or the language independent Levenshtein algorithm. The challenge remains to search large indices or popular query lists in under a few milliseconds so that the user sees results pop up while typing.\n\nAutocomplete can have an adverse effect on individuals and businesses when negative search terms are suggested when a search takes place. Autocomplete has now become a part of reputation management as companies linked to negative search terms such as scam, complaints and fraud seek to alter the results. Google in particular have listed some of the aspects that affect how their algorithm works, but this is an area that is open to manipulation.\n\nAutocomplete of source code is also known as code completion. In a source code editor autocomplete is greatly simplified by the regular structure of the programming languages. There are usually only a limited number of words meaningful in the current context or namespace, such as names of variables and functions. An example of code completion is Microsoft's IntelliSense design. It involves showing a pop-up list of possible completions for the current input prefix to allow the user to choose the right one. This is particularly useful in object-oriented programming because often the programmer will not know exactly what members a particular class has. Therefore, autocomplete then serves as a form of convenient documentation as well as an input method. Another beneficial feature of autocomplete for source code is that it encourages the programmers to use longer, more descriptive variable names incorporating both lower and upper case letters (CamelCase), hence making the source code more readable. Typing large words with many mixed cases like \"numberOfWordsPerParagraph\" can be difficult, but Autocomplete allows one to complete typing the word using a fraction of the keystrokes.\n\nAutocompletion in database query tools allows the user to autocomplete the table names in an SQL statement and column names of the tables referenced in the SQL statement. As text is typed into the editor, the context of the cursor within the SQL statement provides an indication of whether the user needs a table completion or a table column completion. The table completion provides a list of tables available in the database server the user is connected to. The column completion provides a list of columns for only tables referenced in the SQL statement. SQL Server Management Studio provides autocomplete in query tools.\n\nIn many word processing programs, autocompletion decreases the amount of time spent typing repetitive words and phrases. The source material for autocompletion is either gathered from the rest of the current document or from a list of common words defined by the user. Currently Apache OpenOffice, Calligra Suite, KOffice, LibreOffice and Microsoft Office include support for this kind of autocompletion, as do advanced text editors such as Emacs and Vim.\n\nIn a command-line interpreter, such as Unix's sh or bash, or Windows's cmd.exe or PowerShell, or in similar command line interfaces, autocomplete of command names and file names may be accomplished by keeping track of all the possible names of things the user may access. Here autocomplete is usually done by pressing the key after typing the first several letters of the word. For example, if the only file in the current directory that starts with x is xLongFileName, the user may prefer to type x and autocomplete to the complete name. If there were another file name or command starting with x in the same scope, the user would type more letters or press the Tab key repeatedly to select the appropriate text.\n\nThe efficiency of word completion is based on the average length of the words typed. If, for example, the text consists of programming languages which often have longNamesForSpecialFunctions(), completion is both useful and generally applied in editors specially geared towards programmer such as Vim.\n\nIn different languages, word lengths can differ dramatically. Picking up on the above example, a soccer player in German is translated as a \"Fussballspieler\", with a length of 15 characters. This example illustrates that English is not the most efficient language for WC; this study shows an average length for English words in a corpus of over 100,000 words to be 8.93, for Czech to be 10.55 and for German to be 13.24. In addition, in some languages like German called fusional languages as well as agglutinative languages, words can be combined, creating even longer words.\n\nAuthors who often use very long words, like medical doctors and chemists, obviously have even more use for Autocomplete (Word completion) software than other authors.\n\nAlthough research has shown that word prediction software does decrease the number of keystrokes needed and improves the written productivity of children with disabilities, there are mixed results as to whether or not word prediction actually increases speed of output. It is thought that the reason why word prediction does not always increase the rate of text entry is because of the increased cognitive load and requirement to move eye gaze from the keyboard to the monitor.\n\nIn order to reduce this cognitive load, parameters such as reducing the list to five likely words, and having a vertical layout of those words may be used. The vertical layout is meant to keep head and eye movements to a minimum, and also gives additional visual cues because the word length becomes apparent. Although many software developers believe that if the word prediction list follows the cursor, that this will reduce eye movements, in a study of children with Spina Bifida by Tam, Reid, O'Keefe & Nauman (2002) it was shown that typing was more accurate, and that the children also preferred when the list appeared at the bottom edge of the screen, at the midline. Several studies have found that word prediction performance and satisfaction increases when the word list is closer to the keyboard, because of the decreased amount of eye-movements needed.\n\nSoftware with word prediction is produced by multiple manufacturers. The software can be bought as an add-on to common programs such as Microsoft Word (for example, WordQ+SpeakQ, Typing Assistant, Co:Writer, Wivik, Ghotit Dyslexia), or as one of many features on an AAC device (PRC's Pathfinder, Dynavox Systems, Saltillo’s ChatPC products). Some well known programs: Intellicomplete, which is available in both a freeware and a payware version, but works only with programs which are made to work with it. Letmetype and Typingaid are both freeware programs which work in any text editor.\n\nAn early version of autocompletion was described in 1967 by H. Christopher Longuet-Higgins in his Computer-Assisted Typewriter (CAT), “such words as ‘BEGIN’ or ‘PROCEDURE’ or identifiers introduced by the programmer, would be automatically completed by the CAT after the programmer had typed only one or two symbols.”\n\nIn 2016, New Zealand academic Christoph Bartneck was invited to provide a presentation at a ConferenceSeries predatory meeting, the 2016 International Conference on Atomic and Nuclear Physics. Bartneck has little knowledge of nuclear physics, and so used the iOS auto complete function to write the submission, choosing randomly from its suggestions after starting each sentence, and submitted it under the name Iris Pear (a reference to Siri and Apple). A sample sentence from the abstract for the resulting manuscript was: \"The atoms of a better universe will have the right for the same as you are the way we shall have to be a great place for a great time to enjoy the day you are a wonderful person to your great time to take the fun and take a great time and enjoy the great day you will be a wonderful time for your parents and kids\" and the 516-word abstract contained the words \"good\" and \"great\" a combined total of 28 times (and it is available online). Despite being obvious nonsense, the work was accepted within three hours of submission and a conference registration fee of US$1099 requested. Bartneck commented that he was \"reasonably certain that this is a money-making conference with little to no commitment to science,\" a comment he based on the poor quality of the review process and the high cost of attendance, but also joked that \"I know that iOS is a pretty good software, but reaching tenure has never been this close.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1129465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1129465", "title": "Basil Thompson", "text": "Basil Thompson\n\nBasil Thompson (1937–2004) was a ballet dancer, master, and teacher.\n\nHe was trained by the Sadler's Wells Ballet School, now the Royal Ballet in London, and began his career with the Covent Garden Opera Ballet. He became a soloist with the American Ballet Theatre in New York City in 1960, was a ballet master with the Joffrey Ballet, then became a ballet master and artistic director of the Milwaukee Ballet from 1981 to 2000. During his early career in the USA he was married to Alaine Haubert and they had a son, Edward Thompson, in 1969.\n\nHe later married Kitty Carrol. They had two children, Audrey and Colin.\n\nThompson died November 2, 2004 in Lynchburg, Virginia of sudden cardiac arrest. He was on sabbatical from teaching at the University of Iowa. He was 67.\n\n\"Basil brought joy, vigor and dedication to his work as a ballet master, teacher and coach,\" Gerald Arpino, founder and artistic director of the Joffrey Ballet, stated after Thompson's demise. \"He knew the art of ballet thoroughly and lovingly shared it with all of us.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "17733650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17733650", "title": "Blue Dragon Children's Foundation", "text": "Blue Dragon Children's Foundation\n\nBlue Dragon Children's Foundation (Blue Dragon) is a charitably funded non-governmental organization based in Hanoi, Vietnam. Its mission is to help children escape from crisis by offering a range of services including rescue from slavery, shelter, education and employment.\n\nThe foundation was begun by an Australian school teacher, Michael Brosowski. He came to Vietnam in 2002 to teach English at the University of Economics. While there he met many street children, and began to teach free classes with one of his students, Pham Sy Chung. They taught maths, English, yoga, and art. They also formed a football team to promote a sense of sportsmanship and teamwork, while also getting to know new children living on the street. Initially 3 teenage boys turned up for these games, but soon over 40 came each weekend. In 2016 their team, Blue Dragon United, will play its 2000th game.\n\nBy early 2003, Brosowski had quit his university job to concentrate full-time on the needs of the street children. Word spread and more kept arriving to seek help, coming with medical problems, educational needs, and often needing a place to sleep. As the number grew, it became clear that many of the children coming for help would need long-term support. On June 2, 2003, The Big Room was opened, a residence for six former street kids. It was funded for its first year by a $5000 donation from two expatriate women, Chantelle and Danielle. In August 2004 in Bac Ninh province the \"Stay in School\" program was launched to try to help keep poor rural children in school and the group continued to reach out to other children in the Hanoi area.\n\nIn March 2004 Blue Dragon Children's Foundation was registered as an Incorporated Association in New South Wales in Australia and in September 2004, it was registered as an Independent Non-Government Organisation in Vietnam. In early 2005 Chung left Vietnam to study in the US, and Brosowski hired two full-time staff to replace him. With these two staff, a combined office and drop-in centre was opened in March of that year. \n\nIn late 2005, Browski and Va Ta, a Vietnamese law student, rescued a child from central Vietnam who had been trafficked by slave labourers in Ho Chi Minh City. This was the start of another program dedicated to recovering many more children in the same situation. In 2007, Blue Dragon rescued six girls who were kidnapped and sold as sex slaves in China. Since then, over 400 children have been returned to their families from garment factories and 100 girls have been rescued from brothels and forced marriages.\n\nIn 2007, Blue Dragon's work expanded to central Vietnam when it began assisting in the running of a government-run children's home in Hoi An.\n\nIn 2011 Brosowski was named one of that year's CNN Heroes, and in 2012 was made a member of the Order of Australia in recognition of his work defending the rights of Vietnamese children.\n\nBlue Dragon's Chief Lawyer, Van Ta, was named by United States Secretary of State John Kerry as a Trafficking in Persons Hero in 2014, and the Trust Women Conference's Anti-Trafficking Hero in 2015. \n\nBlue Dragon Children's Foundation now supports over 1500 children and youth around Vietnam, particularly in Hanoi, Bac Ninh, Hue and Dien Bien.\n\nBlue Dragon's main aim is to rescue children from crisis situations in the short term and then get them into school, training and ultimately employment in the long term. To achieve this, the organisation offers a range of direct services. Accommodation is provided, or repair/refurbishment of their existing home if living conditions simply aren't suitable. Out-of-school tuition is provided to help children study. Books and stationery are given to those who can't afford them, and scholarships are provided both for children and tertiary students. Medical care and nutritional support are provided to those who need it. \n\nChild trafficking is a major issue in SE Asia, and Blue Dragon tackles this both within Vietnam and internationally. From 2005 to January 2016, Blue Dragon rescued over 500 children and young adults from forced labour, forced marriages, and brothels.\n\nBlue Dragon operates a drop-in centre for street children in Hanoi, where they can play, shower, study and take part in social activities.\n\nIn addition to these direct services, Blue Dragon staff offer training opportunities to government officials on issues such as human trafficking and child abuse; and work with legislators to revise and improve the country's legal framework for children.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17732911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17732911", "title": "Braunauer Zeitgeschichte-Tage", "text": "Braunauer Zeitgeschichte-Tage\n\nThe Braunau Contemporary History Days are a series of conferences organised by the \"association for contemporary history\". Scientifically guided by Andreas Maislinger, it has annually taken place in Braunau am Inn since 1992.\n\nDuring those conferences several topics have been discussed, for example: coping with the past, resistance in dictatorships and other issues related to contemporary history. Since 2004 the association for contemporary history aims to involve more topics related to the Innviertel-region and the bordering Bavaria. In 2004, the conference dealt with the \"Small Border Traffic\" alongside the Salzach-river and the Inn-river from 1933 to 1938, the \"Great Politics\" as well as the daily life along the interface of two political systems, whose differences and similarities were pointed out. \nBetween 23 and 25 September 2005, the historical background of the Braunau Parliament of 1705 was analyzed, which united nobility, clergy, bourgeois and farmers under the slogan \"Rather die Bavarian-like, than decaying in the Austrian way\" (in German: \"Lieber bayrisch sterben als österreichisch verderben\") for a short period of time. \nIn 2006, the conference was devoted to Johann Philipp Palm, a bookseller from Nuremberg who was shot in Braunau on Napoleon's order in August 1806.\nIn 2007, Egon Ranshofen-Wertheimer Award (*1894 in Ranshofen; †1957 in New York) was commemorated. He was a prominent state scientist and a diplomat in the League of Nations and the United Nations. Despite his commitment for Austria, he is widely forgotten. During the conference, the Egon Ranshofen-Wertheimer Award was awarded to the Trapp Family for their work performed and establishing the Trapp Family Austrian Relief. The laudation was held by the Austrian ambassador Emil Brix.\n\nOn the occasion of the UEFA European Football Championship in Austria and Switzerland, the 17th Braunau Contemporary History Days discussed the topic \"Fascination Football\" in 2008.\n\nEmil Brix, Adolf Burger, Michel Cullin, György Dalos, Madeleine Herren, Florian Kotanko, Branko Lustig, Peter Porsch, Josef Ratzenböck (former Governor of Upper Austria, Burghart Schmidt, Klaus Theweleit, Gottfried Wagner, Moshe Zimmermann, Tilman Zülch, ...\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21860133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21860133", "title": "Brenda Hillman", "text": "Brenda Hillman\n\nBrenda Hillman (born March 27, 1951 in Tucson, Arizona), is an American poet and translator. She is the author of nine collections of poetry: \"White Dress\", \"Fortress\", \"Death Tractates\", \"Bright Existence\", \"Loose Sugar\", \"Cascadia\", \"Pieces of Air in the Epic\", \"Practical Water\", for which she won the LA Times Book Award for Poetry, and \"Seasonal Works with Letters on Fire\", which received the 2014 Griffin Poetry Prize and the Northern California Book Award for Poetry. Among the awards Hillman has received are the 2012 Academy of American Poets Fellowship, the 2005 William Carlos Williams Prize for poetry, and Fellowships from the National Endowment for the Arts and the Guggenheim Foundation. A professor of Creative Writing, she holds the Olivia Filippi Chair in Poetry at Saint Mary's College of California, in Moraga, California. Hillman is also involved in non-violent activism as a member of the Code Pink Working Group in the San Francisco Bay Area. In 2016, she was elected a Chancellor of the Academy of American Poets.\n\nShe was educated at Pomona College, and received her M.F.A. at the Iowa Writers' Workshop. She is the Olivia Filippi Professor of Poetry at Saint Mary's College in Moraga, California. She also taught during a residency at the Atlantic Center for the Arts.\n\nHillman met the writer Leonard Michaels (1933-2003) in Iowa City in 1975, they were married in Berkeley in 1976, which ended in divorce in the late 1980s. They had a daughter together. Currently, she is married to the poet Robert Hass.\n\nOne of contemporary poetry's most eclectic and formally innovative writers, Brenda Hillman is known for poems that draw on elements of found texts and document, personal meditation, observation, and literary theory. Often described as “sensuous” and “luminescent,” Hillman's poetry investigates and pushes at the possibilities of form and voice, while remaining grounded in topics such as geology, the environment, politics, family, and spirituality. In an interview with Sarah Rosenthal, Hillman described her own understanding of form: “It is the artist’s job to make form. Not even to make it, but to allow it. Allow form. And all artists have a different relationship to it, and a different philosophy of it… I think that when you are trying to open up a territory—in this case I was working with a desire to open the lyric—you have to be greedy, in that you want more than you can do. And you’re always bound to fail.”\n\nBrenda Hillman has published nine collections of poetry, all from Wesleyan University Press: \"White Dress\" (1985), \"Fortress\" (1989), \"Death Tractates\" (1992), \"Bright Existence\" (1993), \"Loose Sugar\" (1997), \"Cascadia\" (2001), \"Pieces of Air in the Epic\" (2005), and \"Practical Water\" (2009), for which she won the LA Times Book Award for Poetry. Her ninth collection of poetry, the final volume in her tetralogy of books about the classical elements, \"Seasonal Works with Letters on Fire\" (2013), received the International Griffin Poetry Prize for 2014, as well as the Northern California Book Award for Poetry and the California Book Award Gold Medal in Poetry.\n\nIn her interview with Rosenthal, Hillman concluded by admitting: “I hope that whatever experiment and opening and wildness and exploration the poem has to go through—and I do mean the poem because I feel like I am in its hands when I’m writing—that it keeps human experience recognizable.”\n\nHillman is also the author of three chapbooks: \"Coffee, 3 A.M.\" (Penumbra Press, 1982), \"Autumn Sojourn\" (Em Press, 1995), and \"The Firecage\" (a+bend press, 2000).\n\nShe has edited an edition of Emily Dickinson's poetry for Shambhala Publications, and, with Patricia Dienstfrey, co-edited \"The Grand Permission: New Writings on Poetics and Motherhood\" (2003). With Paul Ebenkamp, she co-edited \"Writing the Silences, New California Poetry\" (2010). She co-translated, with Diallah Haidar, \"Poems from Above the Hill: Selected Poems of Ashur Etwebi\", one of Libya's most significant poets. In 2010 she co-translated Jeongrye Choi's book of poems, \"Instances\", released by Parlor Press.\n\nHillman has been increasingly interested in the innovative and experimental lyric traditions, particularly in how the Romantic concepts of nature and spirit have manifested in contemporary poetry. In her essay entitled “Split, Spark, and Space,” Hillman writes about the emergence of different kinds of lyric impulses in her writing: “The sense of a single ‘voice’ in poetry grew to include polyphonies, oddly collective dictations, and the process of writing itself. This happened in part because of a rediscovered interest in esoteric western tradition and in part because I came to a community of women who were writing in exploratory forms…A poetic method which had heretofore been based on waiting for insight suddenly had to accommodate process, and indeterminate physics, a philosophy of detached looking.”\n\nHillman’s early poetry collections received critical praise for their transfiguration of experience. With the publication of \"Loose Sugar\", however, Hillman acquired a formidable reputation in the world of contemporary poetry. \"Cascadia\" and \"Pieces of Air in the Epic\" both use complicated structures to achieve what Forrest Gander has called “poetic architectures.” Hillman spoke to Poets and Writers about her process of composition in \"Cascadia\": “One of the ideas I got from André Breton when I read him in college is the use of chance as anchor. I would arbitrarily choose words and make myself use them to anchor the rest of the writing to the page…in the long poem, ‘A Geology,’ the corner words ‘anchor’ the rest of the poem to the page so it wouldn't float.”\n\nReviewing \"Practical Water\" for the \"Boston Review\", Craig Morgan Teicher spoke to Hillman’s process: “Hillman has charted her own unusual course, borrowing things—a mixture of conversational and high-lyric diction, an emphasis on language’s materiality, an interest in metaphysics and occult knowledge, and a passionate environmental and political consciousness—from pretty much every major poetic movement of the last century.” \"Practical Water\" even includes transcripts from congressional hearings, in which Hillman tries to “seek out the humanity behind policy and policymakers.”\n\nThe fourth volume in the series, \"Seasonal Works With Letters on Fire\", was a long-list finalist for the National Book Award and won a California Book Award Gold Medal; the Northern California Book Award for Poetry; and the International Griffin Poetry Prize. The Judges’ Citation for the Griffin hails Hillman's latest: “\"Seasonal Works\" appears to be one of the most inclusive books a hyper-active imagination could wring out of the actual. The symbols of the alphabet come alive and perform acrobatic marvels. Phonetical bird calls join in on cue. The mighty challenges of now are fully engaged. The book performs an ‘anarchic music’ and stimulates a craving for undiluted love, and a rollicking fury for justice that only its widely variant forms can sustain. This is a unique work.”\n\nDean Rader also praised the work, writing “\"Seasonal Works With Letters On Fire\" is a profoundly humane work. In language that moves from the chatty to the experimental to the heightened to the rhetorical, Hillman shows us once again that poetry is itself a tireless worker, always on our behalf.”\n\nPraising Hillman’s deft handling of form and subject, Marjorie Welish has stated, “each poem that Hillman writes creates its own experimental configuration, within which the phrase swerves and discombobulates sense, as several registers of subject complicate the sampling of experiences and also as the experimental format throws the lyric into symbolic disarray one moment and naturalist scrutiny the next. And even more: she writes as if the lyric poem had a political calling.”\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8043340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8043340", "title": "Centre for Dialogue", "text": "Centre for Dialogue\n\nThe Centre for Dialogue is an interdisciplinary research institution at La Trobe University. Professor Joseph Camilleri was the Director of the Centre from 2006 until 2013. The current Director is Professor Alberto Gomez. The research centre specialises in the \"philosophy, method\" and \"practice\" of dialogue between communities, cultures, religions and civilisations. The key aims of the Centre include:\n\nThe focus of the Centre is largely concentrated on inter-cultural, inter-religious conflict and inter-civilisational conflict, as well as the researching of practical methods of dialogue which may encourage peaceful resolutions to conflict and mechanisms for cooperation.\n\nThe Centre for Dialogue has several current ongoing projects which act as the hallmark of the institutions' study. \n\nExamples of such ongoing projects are investigating the tensions relations to the role of religion and culture in international politics, particularly since the 11 September terrorist attacks. Such projects continue to focus on how the government, nongovernment and civil society sectors have responded, most notable in Europe, the United States, and Asia (including Australia). The projects investigate both domestic conflict (for example, strategies to curb escalating tensions between Muslims and non-Muslims) and international tensions (for example, the implications arising from the rise of Political Islam and the War on Terror in international politics).\n\nOther projects include:\n\nThe Centre for Dialogue also runs several educational programmes, such as the Muslim Leadership Program for Young Muslims which aims to empower young Muslim men and women and help them to reach their full potential as citizens and future leaders.\n\nThe Centre for Dialogue composes and distributes publications arising from their diverse research projects. This includes the publication of books, edited volumes and journal articles, as well as discussion papers that are distributed to relevant organisations and government departments. The Centre also distributes a bi-annual newsletter that reports on the Centre’s activities, as well as includes opinion pieces on issues that relate to the Centre’s interests.\n\nThe Centre for Dialogue also distributes several working papers each year that do not necessarily relate to the Centre’s projects. Monographs are submitted to the Centre to be considered by the editorial committee for publication. The intention of the Working Papers is to provide the research community (including students and academics), policy-makers, journalists and community leaders with an opportunity to contribute to ongoing debates. Papers are preferred to focus on the dynamics of conflict (whether intrastate, inter-state, or trans-state). They generally must also identify ways in which the theory and/or practice of \"dialogue\" has contributed to coexistence, co-operation and mutual enrichment and highlight methods that may foster peaceful relations in the future.\n\nThe Centre for Dialogue and its staff provide the core of the editorial input of the scholarly journal, \"Global Change, Peace and Security\", published by Routledge and edited from La Trobe University.\n\nThe previous Director; Professor Joseph Camilleri's most recent book, co-authored with Professor Jim Falk, was launched by UNDP head, the Hon Helen Clark, in Sydney, Australia in February 2010. The book \"Worlds in Transition: Evolving Governance Across a Stressed Planet\", Edward Elgar, UK, is a synoptic overview of the way in which humans have come to collectively seek to shape their futures, and the challenges posed to that in a time of rapid transition. \n\nThe Centre for Dialogue hosts one major national or international conference and one major public lecture each year, such as an international conference titled ‘Europe and Asia: Between Islam and the United States’ in 2008, and a 2009 controversial keynote address by former Iranian President Mohammad Khatami.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5733800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5733800", "title": "Cheat sheet", "text": "Cheat sheet\n\nA cheat sheet (also \"cheatsheet\") or crib sheet is a concise set of notes used for quick reference.\n\nCheat sheets are so named because they may be used by students without the instructor's knowledge to cheat on a test. However, at higher levels of education where rote memorization is not as important as in basic education, students may be permitted to consult their own notes during the exam (which is not considered cheating). The act of preparing a crib sheet can be an educational exercise, and students are sometimes only allowed to use crib sheets they have written themselves. \n\nA cheat sheet is a physical piece of paper, often filled with equations and/or facts in compressed writing. Students often print cheat sheets in extremely small font, fitting an entire page of notes in the palm of their hands during the exam.\n\nCrib sheets are also fully worked solutions for exams or work sheets normally handed out to university staff in order to ease marking.\n\nIn more general usage, a crib sheet is any short (one or two page) reference to terms, commands, or symbols where the user is expected to understand the use of such terms but not necessarily to have memorized all of them. Many computer applications, for example, have crib sheets included in their documentation, which list keystrokes or menu commands needed to achieve specific tasks to save the user the effort of digging through an entire manual to find the keystroke needed to, for example, move between two windows. An example of such a crib sheet is one for the GIMP photo editing software. Other examples include \"Read Me First\" and \"Quick Reference Card\" documents included with consumer electronics.\n\nSome academic and technical publishers also publish crib sheets for software packages and technical topics. In some cases these are also intended as display items in that they are colorful and visually appealing. Web-based crib sheets, such as references to terms, commands, or symbols, have become extremely common.\n\n"}
{"id": "42954655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42954655", "title": "Christof Jantzen", "text": "Christof Jantzen\n\nChristof Jantzen is an architect based in Los Angeles, California. Throughout his professional career Jantzen has directed and designed various sustainably designed projects. Many have received international recognition for leadership in global green design including the Santa Monica Parking Structure #6, the Genzyme Corporate Headquarters, Mill Street Lofts, Los Angeles and the Harvard Allston Science Complex. Other recognition of Jantzens’s work includes the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Platinum Award, AIA/COTE Top Ten Green Project Award, California Green Leadership Award, Northeast Sustainable Energy Association Award, American Architecture Award… Jantzen was the founding partner of Behnisch Architekten LLP in the United States. He is a professor at the University of Washington International Center for Advanced Renewable Energy and Sustainability I-CARES. Jantzen taught design at the Southern California Institute of Architecture, California State Polytechnic University and the University of Southern California. He is the principal and owner of the Venice, California -based architectural practice Studio Jantzen.\n"}
{"id": "8422640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8422640", "title": "College Entrance Exam Advisors and Educators", "text": "College Entrance Exam Advisors and Educators\n\nCollege Entrance Exam Advisors and Educators (CEEAE) is an organization which seeks to address the needs of students preparing for college admissions in the United States.\nThe CEEAE provides book reviews on college admissions test-prep books for free.\n\n"}
{"id": "524767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=524767", "title": "Dan Grimaldi", "text": "Dan Grimaldi\n\nDaniel \"Dan\" Grimaldi (born January 20, 1952) is an American actor and mathematics professor who is known for his roles as twins Philly and Patsy Parisi on the HBO TV series \"The Sopranos\".\n\nIn addition to his role on \"The Sopranos\", he has also had some minor film credits, most notably as mother-fixated pyromaniac Donny Kohler in the 1980 slasher film \"Don't Go in the House\", and some guest TV appearances, including several episodes on \"Law & Order\" as well as appearing in 2011 as Tommy Barrone Sr. in \"Moonlighting\" the 9th episode of the 2nd season of the CBS show \"Blue Bloods\". He appeared as an executive in the 2000 film The Yards and Grimaldi also voices \"Frank\" for the bestselling computer game \"Mafia\".\n\nGrimaldi has a bachelor's degree in mathematics from Fordham University, a master's degree in operations research from New York University, and a Ph.D. in data processing from the City University of New York, and teaches in the Department of Mathematics and Computer Science at Kingsborough Community College in Brooklyn, New York.\n\n"}
{"id": "41008011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41008011", "title": "Deaf education in Kenya", "text": "Deaf education in Kenya\n\nDeaf Education in Kenya is a constantly changing section of the Kenyan education system that is focused on educating deaf, hard-of-hearing, and hearing-impaired Kenyan students. There are many organizations in Kenya made to protect the rights of Deaf Kenyans and promote progress in deaf education. The state of Kenyan deaf education is constantly changing and improving.\n\nKenyan Sign Language (KSL) is the used by the deaf community of Kenya, the population of which is estimated to be 600,000. With a population of around 340,000 speakers (based on a 2007 consensus), KSL acts as the primary mode of communication for over half of the deaf population. There are two known dialects- Kisumu in western Kenya and Mombasa in eastern Kenya.\n\nLike other sign languages, KSL evolved largely through the social interactions of the deaf. Vocabulary is enriched and constantly changing through the movement of unique signs originating in remote areas to other schools or communities. These regional differences can create dialects, just as in oral languages. Kenya, being a culturally diverse country, has around 42 ethnic groups and their local sign languages provided the basis for KSL and allow for its continued diversification.\n\nThe first dictionary for an African Sign Language was written in Kenya in 1988 by Rothenborg-Jensen and Yego on Kenyan Sign Language.\n\nKSL may has connections to American Sign Language (ASL) and British Sign Language (BSL), and the manual alphabet is largely (omit) based on that of the American Sign Language, though the British one was used previously and still used in a Mombasa school.\nKSL has been largely influenced by ASL since the inception of formal education. Many Kenyan schools for the deaf were founded by churches such as the Presbyterian Church of East Africa and Catholic Church and were later influenced by deaf leaders such as Prof. Michael Ndurumo, who advocated the use of sign language and the manual alphabet, as well as many interpreters and volunteers associated with them. The origin of many of the interpreter training programmes were influences by organizations associated with ASL-use, such as the Peace Corps in the foundation of the Kenyan Sign Language Interpreters Association (KSLIA).\n\nThe KSL used to teach in schools may not be considered authentic KSL due to the substantial amount of ASL influence.\n\nKenyan Sign Language is the basis for Somali Sign Language. This is due to the fact that the first school for the deaf in Somalia along with its three teachers came from Annalena Tonelli’s Kenyan school for the deaf in Wajir.\n\nThough KSL is largely unrelated to other languages, but has similarities with Ugandan and Tanzanian sign languages. Nonetheless, Ugandan and Tanzanian deaf cannot often understand KSL very well. However, many deaf Ugandans know KSL due to the fact that they often travel to Kenya for secondary education.\n\nKenya’s official languages are English and Kiswahili, though KSLI is making efforts to give Kenyan Sign Language and Braille official status as well.\nWhile not Kenya’s official languages, Braille and KSL are mentioned in the 2009 Constitution, Article 7, in which it is stated that the State will protect these two Kenyan languages along with Kenya’s indigenous languages.\n\nThe government of Kenya uses Kenya Signed English, which is parallel to American Signed Exact English, in which the sign language does not have its own grammar and follows English grammar. Kenya Signed English is also used in all schools under the Kenya Institute of Education. \nKSL, on the other hand, is backed by the University of Nairobi. It is used at Nyangoma and Mumias, both of which are primary schools for the deaf in western Kenya.\nThere is a noted negativity towards KSL on behalf of special education teachers.\nSome schools are known to use other sign languages, including a Mombasa school uses British Sign Language.\nA more in-depth look into the use of KSL and SEE in Kenyan schools is presented in the next section.\n\nIn Kenya, deaf education makes up part of the ministry of education under the special education division.\nThe Educational Assessment and Resource Services (EARS) also plays a role in assisting deaf education opportunities. It hosts an Educational Assessment and Resource Centre (EARC) in every Kenyan district. Before a deaf child is entered into a school, he is assessed at his local EARC.\n\nHistorically, many changes have been made to the policies in Kenya regarding language of instruction in deaf schools. \nStarting in the 1800s, missionaries from Europe began establishing schools for the deaf. However, these schools catered to the wealthier population and excluded poor families from the specialized education. At the time, there was a strong emphasis on the oral communication, lip reading, speech therapy, and hearing aids.\n\nFor quite a while, some publications and speakers have attributed and linked establishment of schools for the deaf in Kenya to Dr. Andrew Jackson Foster. Dr. Foster did not establish any schools or churches for the deaf in Kenya. Dr. Foster's work was mainly concentrated in West Africa.\n\nIn Kenya, Schools for the deaf were started by religious bodies, both Christian and Muslim.. The first school for the deaf in Kenya was Aga Khan in Mombasa started in 1958. Mumias School for the Deaf and Nyangoma School for the deaf were both established by the Catholic church in 1961, followed by Kambui School for the Deaf which was started by the Presbyterian Church of East Africa (PCEA) in 1963. There then followed a number of schools established by churches, these included Tumu Tumu School for the Deaf in 1970 established by the PCEA, the Methodist Church also started Kaaga School for the Deaf, and the Anglican Church started Maseno School for the Deaf. Another school for the deaf - Kapsabet School for the Deaf was started by the African Inland Church. All these were pioneer schools by their respective churches long before Andrew Foster visited Kenya for the first time in the 1980s while on transit to Nigeria. Moreover, schools for the deaf in Kenya started using sign language when it was introduced to schools by Prof Michael Ndurumo in the early 1980s.\n\nOther important facts to note are that the Kenya Society for Deaf Children (KSDC) was registered in 1958. Indeed, Prof Michael Ndurumo who later became instrumental in deaf education in Kenya was one of KSDC's first students at Dagoreti Children's Centre in 1961 to 1963. Other pioneer deaf students in Kenya include Santina Mwarania, Rosemary Aloo(KALRO), Scholastica Majuma, Solomon Kayia, Florence Baseke (from Uganda), and Elkana Kimutai who were among the first batch of students at Mumias School for the Deaf; and Mr. Patrick Hagoi, Rev Daniel Njihia, and Rev Joseph Ondiek who were among the first students at Nyangoma School for the Deaf. Most of there pioneer students would later become very influential leaders of the deaf in many spheres of life in Kenya.\n\nSimultaneous communication, or sign supported speech, started to be used in 1986 and is still present. Simultaneous communication (SimCom) involves using both oral and manual coded languages- in this case English and Signed Exact English. While in theory this method is effective, in practice it can become very confusing. Nonetheless, it is claimed that this communication mode has resulted in academic progress.\n\nOne of the first instances of deaf education that used sign language as opposed to the oral method of the missionary schools starts with the inception of the Kenya Society for Deaf Children (KSDC) in 1958, which went on to build the first two schools made specifically for the deaf- Nyangoma and Mumias. Both primary schools were built in west Kenya by 1961. Secondary schools were built as the number of students attending has drastically increased. According to KSDC’s statistics, 1,710 students attended schools for the deaf in 1982, and by 2001 there were 6,000 students. There were reported 23 deaf schools were built from 1960-1980.\nHowever, even accounting for the impressive movement, it is estimated that around 30% of all deaf children in Kenya still do not go to school.\n\nProf. Michael Ndurumo is a deaf Kenyan educated in the United States who advocated the use of SEE in 1985 while working for the Kenya Institute of Education (KIE). He was a supporter of the use of sign language in classrooms. This led to the Ministry of Education’s formation of Machakos School for the Deaf where Ndurumo incorporated the ASL manual alphabet and the total communication method. Total communication is a mixture of oralism and manualism, and incorporates the use of the individual’s specific vocabulary, sign language, fingerspelling, speech and lip reading, manually coded language and other forms of communication to teach at an individual level for students.\n\nA 1988 study conducted by the Ministry of Education showed that using total communication as a teaching method enabled faster learning and was more effective for cognitive growth when incorporated at earlier ages than later ages. After this study, the Kenyan government promoted the use of sign language and, more specifically, SEE alongside total communication in deaf schools and classrooms.\n\nAs one of Kenya’s two official languages, high importance is placed on English in the Kenyan school system. \nSince the Gachathi Report took effect in 1976 and reformed Kenya’s school system, all Kenyan schools teach Kenyan school children to read and write English from pre-school until Standard 3. Starting in Standard 4, students are taught solely in English, with the exception of Kiswahili classes or other language classes.\nAll national examinations in Kenya are written and conducted in English. These examinations are instrumental to students’ futures, as they determine what class level the student will be placed in, acceptance into college programmes, and even obtaining jobs. The only accommodations provided for deaf students is a 30-minute extension during their exam.\nKenyan universities do not provide interpreters for their deaf students.\nDue to the heavy emphasis placed on English skills, efforts to maximise deaf students’ exposure to English have ensued in the hopes that it will better prepare them for their examinations and subsequently ensure better futures and job opportunities. This centrality of English in Kenya is one major motive behind the implementation of inclusive education in Kenyan schools.\n\nSchoolchildren must become proficient in English because of the emphasis on it in Kenyan education and examinations, meaning thorough knowledge of English grammar is essential. Since Kenyan Sign Language holds its own grammar, deaf students taught in KSL are considered to be at a disadvantage.\n\nAs an attempt to incorporate more exposure to English into deaf education, aid these students to become proficient in English grammar, and make learning to read and write in English more feasible, suggestions have been made to enforce the use of Signed Exact English. \nSigned Exact English (SEE) uses the sentence structure of English with the visual signs of sign language. It is a manually coded language, also called a signed oral language, and thus is not a “natural language” due to the fact that it did not evolve naturally within a human population and instead was assembled by merging aspects of oral and sign languages. Signed Exact English is not considered its own language since it does not have a distinct grammatical structure; it is instead considered a manual sign system.\n\nSEE, however, does not take into account many subtle aspects of sign language, such as changes in facial expressions that affect meaning. Use of SEE can also stunt the development and use of KSL. Studies of SimComm and sign bilingualism show that the use of both oral communication and manually coded communication improves comprehension and understanding but can stunt the teacher’s linguistic complexity, making their language use simpler. When asked, many students preferred learning through KSL instead of SEE (or ASL) and stated that using both sign language and speech together was confusing. However, teachers are not as proficient in KSL.\n\nKiswahili is a compulsory subject in Kenyan schools, yet due to low results from deaf students there has been thought to replace it with teaching KSL, with the Kenya Society for Deaf Children (KSDC) on the forefront of the proposal. In fact, KSL is now an option for deaf students in some schools, though there is a lack of textbooks to facilitate the teaching of KSL as a subject.\n\nHistorically, many students, especially those with special needs such as the deaf, have been excluded from schools, particularly in developing countries. However, there are now multiple approaches to deaf education that are present in Kenya as well as the rest of the world. There is considerable controversy surrounding which may be considered the best course of action, as they all have positive and negative aspects. Some of these strategies are: \n\nThe instigation of integration into the Kenyan education system can be traced back to Britain due to the fact that most Kenyan developers of special education were trained in Britain, where integration was endorsed in 1981. Upon their return, policies were set into motion regarding the assimilation of deaf and other special education students into mainstream schools- though these students were still given particular attention. Because of the emphasis on normalization, deaf students were taught speech development, often compromising their exposure to other subjects.\nDespite the years that integration had been incorporated in the educational system, the rate of academic improvement has yet to reach expectations. There is a general negativity and disregard to the policy structures along with a lack of enforcement. Thus, the current suggestion to better deaf education is to embrace inclusive education.\n\nThough the concept of inclusive education is not very new, its implementation by Kenyan educators is. Strategies toward inclusion started when the University of Cambridge Faculty of Education, Kenyatta University, and the Kenyan Ministry of Education Science and Technology’s special education section initiated a link programme in 2001 dedicated to educational inclusion. This initiated a widespread effort to promote inclusion in the country’s deaf schools in hopes that it would better prepare deaf students for the English-based Kenyan educational and examination systems. \nPresently, the Kenyan government is incorporating inclusion into the policy of its educational system. Projections show that there will be a minimum of one special needs teacher in every institution by 2015.\nThe United Kingdom’s Cheshire International is supporting western Kenya’s Oriang Inclusive Project- the only inclusive programme for public schools. The Project currently manages five regular schools. Assessments of academic improvement on behalf of the Project are yet to ensue.\n\nInclusion is one of the many methods to approaching the education of deaf and hard-of-hearing students throughout the world and is considered by many the best approach. However, due to the linguistic barrier, the inclusion of students with hearing impairments into mainstream schools can have a significant negative effect on academic achievement if proper support and special attention is not sufficiently provided.\nIt should be noted that the approach of inclusive education rejects the use of special schools or the separation of special needs students from the main student body. Since special schools are designed specifically to target the needs of a specific group of students, denying the separation of these students can sacrifice the quality of the education that’s needed to support certain students and keep them on track with the educational system. Additionally, merging these students with their mainstream counterparts can put them at considerable disadvantage when it comes to the competing for these facilities as well as the attention and guidance of their instructors.\n\nImposing inclusive education in developing countries such as Kenya ignores how issues such as insufficient funding, inadequate teacher training, large numbers of students in classrooms, and inflexible school systems may affect the effectiveness of these students’ education.\n\nStudies show that parents of deaf students prefer to send their children to special schools under the assumption that they will receive better, specialized education, interact with other hearing-impaired students, and use a common language.\n\nDeaf education teachers all hold either a (1) Diploma in Special Needs Education received from the Kenya Institute of Special Education (KISE) or (2) Degree in Special Needs Education received from Kenyatta or Maseno University. Because of the shortage in qualified teachers, some do not hold either of these qualifications. These teachers are trained in general education but generally have no received special education training.\n\nBoth the KSLIA and the KNAD are dedicated to protecting Deaf rights and education in Kenya.\n\nThe Kenyan Sign Language Interpreters Association (KSLIA) is an organisation that supports the creation and advancement of interpreter training and certification programmes. The KSLIA Official Blog envisions a “three-pronged approach” that includes the three C’s: \n\nThe Peace Corps programme had a strong need for trained interpreters for the pre-service training programme. The interpreters were needed to allow Deaf volunteers communication with the instructors. When it was evident that trained interpreters in Kenya were scarce, the Peace Corps supported a couple interpreters from the United States to work with local interpreters to be able to provide better future interpreter services to Deaf volunteers. \nThere was a strong group of Deaf volunteers in 1999 who actively supported the allocation of funds to strengthen support for local interpreters. A one-week-long workshop was funded as a result of these volunteers’ lobbying. 15 interpreters attended the workshop which was held in September 2000. \nKenyan interpreters were encouraged to start an association during this week-long workshop. The association was to be responsible for: \nFor the following couple of months, assemblies were held to form a constitution and code of ethics, and a list of trained interpreters throughout the country was created. \nThis one-week programme is accredited with instigating what the “Kenyan Interpreter community” came to know as the Navisha Declaration. \nThe Kenyan Sign Language Association adopted the Navisha Declaration’s objectives as its own once it became officially registered under the Societies Act in December 2000.\n\nThe KSLI blog states the Navisha Declaration to be: \n\nThe Kenyan National Association of the Deaf is a Kenyan national non-governmental organisation that was founded and is run by Deaf Kenyans. KNAD was formed in 1987 through the Societies Act. KNAD cooperates with international NGOs and the Kenyan government regarding issues about deaf Kenyans. KNAD promotes human rights for the deaf and strives to offer research and training in sign language and sign language interpreting. It is also a member of the World Federation of the Deaf.\n\nAnnalena Tonelli was a Roman Catholic volunteer who worked in eastern Africa for a significant portion of her life. Tonelli is known for building special schools of many sorts. She built a school for the deaf in 1980 in Wajir, a Somali-Kenyan town in the northeastern part of Kenya. The school was known for using KSL. \nTonelli was awarded the Nansen Refugee Award in 2003 and died shortly after by assassination. \nIn Tonelli’s honour, three graduates from Wajir built the Annalena School for the Deaf in Borama, Somali. It was the first school for the deaf ever to be built in Somalia. It was in this school that Somali Sign Language began.\n\nBeatrice Anunda established the Humble Hearts School in Kenya in September 2003. It used both KSL and English, making it the first bilingual deaf school in Kenya. \nAnunda learned KSL from the KSL Research Project of the University of Nairobi. \nRecently, the Kenyan Piping Company bulldozed the school, though the government claimed it was an accident due to construction of a pipe that was going through the city. No compensation was paid, but temporary classrooms were made until the Humble Hearts School was rebuilt through the help of philanthropists and volunteers, including an NGO called Angel Covers.\n"}
{"id": "7859273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7859273", "title": "Dialogue education", "text": "Dialogue education\n\nDialogue Education is a popular education approach to adult education first described by educator Jane Vella in the 1980s. This approach to education draws on various adult learning theories, including those of Paulo Freire, Kurt Lewin, Malcolm Knowles and Benjamin Bloom (Global Learning Partners, 2006b; Vella, 2004). It is a synthesis of these theories into principles and practices that can be applied in a concrete way to learning design and facilitation. Dialogue Education is a form of Constructivism and can be a means for Transformative learning, (Vella, 2004).\n\nDialogue Education shifts the focus of education from what the teacher says to what the learner does, from learner passivity to learners as active participants in the dialogue that leads to learning (Global Learning Partners, 2006c). A dialogue approach to education views learners as subjects in their own learning and honours central principles such as mutual respect and open communication (Vella, 2002). Learners are invited to actively engage with the content being learned rather than being dependent on the educator for learning. Ideas are presented to learners as open questions to be reflected on and integrated into the learner's own context (Vella, 2004). The intent is that this will result in more meaningful learning that affects behaviour.\n\nIn the Dialogue Education approach, the idea of dialogue is used in contrast to the monologue approach often seen in traditional adult education, whereby teachers present information to learners who receive information without engaging with it. This was labelled the \"banking\" approach to education by Paulo Freire in his 1970 work Pedagogy of the Oppressed. According to Freire, the traditional monologue approach to adult education views learners as empty vessels ready for teachers to deposit information into (Vella, 2004). Freire and others recognized a need for reform in adult education practices, particularly with respect to equity in the relationship between adult learners and teachers (Vella, 2004).\n\nInfluenced by these theorists, Vella began to develop a structured set of principles and practices to translate the theory into action and results. She began using Dialogue Education practices in her teaching in the 1970s and these were further developed into a systematic approach while completing her doctoral dissertation at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. At this point, she named her approach popular education after Freire's model (Global Learning Partners, 2006a,b; Vella, 2004).\n\nThe Dialogue Education approach became even more advanced as Vella created her own training company Jubilee Popular Education Centre, now called Global Learning Partners, in 1981. Through this organization, more than 3,500 learners from 60 countries have completed workshops about the dialogue approach to learning design and facilitation. The approach has also been used for conducting learning assessments, learning evaluations and designing and facilitating meetings (Global Learning Partners, 2006d).\n\nThe concepts of Dialogue Education are continually evolving as Vella, her partners and the learners of this approach gain greater understanding of how best to put adult learning theory into action for effective results.\n\nThe principles and practices of Dialogue Education represent a concrete way to integrate adult learning theory into the design and implementation of learning events (Global Learning Partners 2006c). While more than fifty of these have been noted (Vella 1995, 1998, 2001, 2002, 2004; Global Learning Partners, 2006c), the primary structure was laid out in her most recent publication and is laid out and slightly expanded upon below (Vella, 2007).\n\n\n\n1. \"Learning Needs and Resources Assessment (LNRA)\"\nTo discover the present knowledge and skills of the learners and help develop further goals.\n\n2. \"The Seven Steps of Design\" - In designing learning activities, educators seek to answer in as much detail as possible the questions:\n\n\n3. \"Learning Tasks (How?)\" - work by using active verbs to engage the learner and work at proficiency in knowledge, skills, and attitudes (both individuals and groups). This leads to the development of the four I's.\n\n\n4. \"The principles and practices\" at every level:\n\n\n5.\"Evaluation Indicators\"\n\n\nWhile none of these ideas are new to adult learning theory, the unique contribution of Dialogue Education is the highly structured system which has been devised to implement known adult learning theory in a concrete way (Global Learning Partners, 2006c). Adult learning theory is widely understood, however, it is used with much less frequency in practice. The Dialogue Education approach, because it offers well constructed, specific principles and practices, demands congruence between theory, design and implementation. Such congruence leads to improved learning and resulting behaviour change (Vella, 2004).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11202476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11202476", "title": "EdTechTalk", "text": "EdTechTalk\n\nEdtechtalk is an award-winning community of educators interested in discussing and learning about the uses of educational technology. \nPart of the Worldbridges network of homegrown webcasting, several live shows are webcast each week.\n\nDuring shows, listeners can use any common media player (i.e. Windows Media Player, RealPlayer, or iTunes) to listen to the discussion and use the chat room to make comments and ask questions. It is also possible to join in the discussion using Skype or (sometimes) a U.S. based teleconference.\n\nEdtechtalk is a community of people interested in the use of technology to improve teaching and learning at all levels of education throughout the world. As a Worldbridges community, it embraces the values of collaboration and inclusiveness.\n\nThe community fosters the development of networks of educators who come together to collaborate, debate policies and practices, and support one another in their professional and personal use of educational technology.\n\nEdtechtalk \"collate the work of a variety of professionals to create snapshots of the knowledge of a particular field as it is seen at a given time\" \n\nEdtech Weekly\nThe 'main' show, hosted by Dave Cormier, John Schinker, Jeff Lebow, and Jennifer Maddrell features the latest news from the world of edtech and the edublogosphere.\n\n21st Century Learning Webcast\nIndependent School educators, Alex Ragone, Arvind Grover, and Vinnie Vrotney explore the intersection of education and technology on this weekly show. .\n\nWomen of Web 2.0\nWomen of Web 2.0 began webcasting weekly internet radio shows in October 2006. Its intended audience is for educators who are interested in using web technologies in innovative ways. The webcasts are live events held on Tuesday evenings at 9 PM EST and are archived on the Edtechtalk.com site as podcasts. The show's hosts are Jennifer Wagner, Sharon Peters and friends, who are educators at all levels of education.\n\nTeachers Teaching Teachers\nTeachers Paul Allison and Susan Ettenheim are mainly responsible for this blog, podcast, and webcast. Every Wednesday evening at 9:00 EST (Americas) we get together and talk about our teaching. These conversations are archived as a podcast on this blog. Objectives include searching for the most effective practices in technology, studying research, and improving knowledge of new media by using it. There are two purposes: developing teacher knowledge and leadership in schools and districts and putting this knowledge and leadership to work to improve student online reading and writing through the use of blogs, wikis, podcasts and webcasts.\n\nEdTech Brainstorms\nHosted by Doug Symington. Free-form discussions where educators Skype in (or call in) to discuss what they're working on and thinking about. The Edtech cyber faculty lounge.\n\nConversations\nThis weekly show, hosted by Lisa Parisi and Maria Knee, focuses on an educational topic each week. Each Sunday morning at 11:30 AM EST (Americas), Parisi and Knee are joined by a variety of educators around the world to discuss such issues as improving the education system, homework, and parents in the classroom.\n\nTeachers are Talking\nLisa Parisi, Susan van Gelder, and Cheryl Lykowski host this monthly show. For each show, they are joined by a guest who discusses his or her specialty in the educational field.\n\nParents as Partners\nThis bi-weekly show is focused on how to connect parents and teachers in ways that benefit students and build effective working relationships. The show is hosted by Lorna Costantini, Matt Montagne, Cindy Seibel and Cindy Zautcke. On the 1st and 3rd Monday of each month parents and teachers share their experiences on how to use web 2.0 tools and other good practices to connect parents and teachers.\n\nWinner of 2008 Edublog award for best use of audio in education.\n\n"}
{"id": "7392532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7392532", "title": "Embargo (academic publishing)", "text": "Embargo (academic publishing)\n\nIn academic publishing, an embargo is a period during which access to academic journals is not allowed to users who have not paid for access (or have access through their institution). The purpose of this is to ensure publishers have revenue to support their activities, although the impact of embargoes on publishers is hotly debated, with some studies finding no impact while publisher experience suggests otherwise. A 2012 survey of libraries by the Association of Learned, Professional, and Society Publishers on the likelihood of journal cancellations in cases where most of the content was made freely accessible after six months suggests there would be a major negative impact on subscriptions, but this result has been debated.\n\nVarious types exist: \n\nThere are various purposes:\n\nIn academic publishing, a moving wall is the time period between the last issue of an academic journal available in a given online database and the most recently published print issue of a journal. It is specified by publishers in their license agreements with databases (like JSTOR), and generally ranges from several months to several years.\n"}
{"id": "30866925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30866925", "title": "Facila", "text": "Facila\n\nFacila is a training program, in Southern Europe, for adults with short primary schooling. The objective is to prepare students for validation processes and secondary education. Many participants are entrepreneurs, owners or employees of small and medium enterprises, SME:s. In these cases the program provides opportunity for training in entrepreneurship and \"continuous improvement\" to enhance the participant's employability.\n\nThe program started in 2007 as a cooperation between Sweden and Portugal. It is based on the Swedish program \"Kunskapslyftet\" and adapted to Southern European conditions on an initiative by Johan Frisk.\n\nApart from basic training, the main objective of the Facila program is to teach students how to prepare improvement projects.\nThe students review their work, both task and physical space, then look for patterns and flaws which are expressed using a mathematical analysis. The process, which increases the students employability, is fundamental to finding clues for improvements in productivity and decrease in work related injuries.\n"}
{"id": "1577366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1577366", "title": "Foreign languages in prisons", "text": "Foreign languages in prisons\n\nSome prisons have sought to limit inmates' abilities to communicate in foreign languages, such as send or receive correspondence in these languages, or receive printed publications in these languages. This is often justified on the grounds that it might enable inmates to plan escapes or other crimes, or may contain material encouraging disorder in the prison, but that prison officials would not recognise them due to their inability to understand what was written or said.\n\nInmates and human rights activists have argued that this policy is discriminatory against minority groups who speak a different language, especially when they do not have good command of the mainstream language, and hence have difficulty communicating in it, when they wish to correspond with family members who do not speak the mainstream or national language (especially with foreign national prisoners), and where their language is an important part of their cultural or religious identity. (For example, Arabic is an important part of the religious identity of many Muslims, and Hebrew is an important part of the religious identity of Jews.)\n\nThe US Court of Appeals, Seventh Circuit, ruled in Kikumura v. Turner 28 F.3d 592 C.A.7(Ill).1994. (see ), that a blanket refusal to permit inmates to communicate or receive publications in a language other than English is unconstitutional. However, their ruling implies that the prison may still refuse to do so, if they have made a good faith effort to translate the materials or have they reviewed by a prison official who speaks the language, and found that such translation or review is not possible or too costly. But such an investigation of possibilities of review or translation must be made on a case-by-case basis, rather than a blanket prohibition without conducting such an analysis.\n\n"}
{"id": "3580402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3580402", "title": "Fred D'Aguiar", "text": "Fred D'Aguiar\n\nFred D'Aguiar (born 2 February 1960) is a British-Guyanese poet, novelist and playwright. He is currently Professor of English at UCLA.\n\nFred D'Aguiar was born in London in 1960 to Guyanese parents, Malcolm Frederick D'Aguiar and Kathleen Agatha Messiah. In 1962 he was taken to Guyana where he lived with his grandmother until 1972 when he returned, at the age of twelve, to England. D'Aguiar trained as a psychiatric nurse before reading African and Caribbean Studies at the University of Kent, Canterbury, graduating in 1985. On graduating he applied for a PhD on the Guyanese author Wilson Harris at the University of Warwick, but - after winning two writers-in-residency positions, at Birmingham University and the University of Cambridge (where he was the Judith E. Wilson Fellow from 1989 to 1990) - his PhD studies \"recededed from [his] mind\" and he began to focus all of his energies on creative writing.\n\nIn 1994, D'Aguiar moved to the United States to take up a Visiting Writer position at Amherst College, Amherst, Massachusetts (1992–94). Since then, he has taught at Bates College, Lewiston, Maine (Assistant Professor, 1994–95) and the University of Miami where he held the position of Professor of English and Creative Writing. In 2003 he took up the position of Professor of English and Co-Director of the Master of Fine Arts in Creative Writing at Virginia Tech. In Fall 2015, he became a Professor of English and Director of Creative Writing at UCLA.\n\nD'Aguiar's first collection of poetry, \"Mama Dot\" (1985), was published to much acclaim. It centres on an \"archetypal\" grandmother figure, Mama Dot, and was notable for its fusion of standard English and Nation language. Along with his 1989 collection \"Airy Hall\" (named after the village in Guyana where D'Aguiar spent his childhood), \"Mama Dot\" won the Guyana Poetry Prize. Where D'Aguiar's first two poetry collections were set in Guyana, his third - \"British Subjects\" (1989) - explores the experiences of peoples of the West Indian diaspora in London. London was also the focus of another long poem, \"Sweet Thames\", which was broadcast as part of the BBC \"Worlds on Film\" series on 3 July 1992 and won the Commission for Racial Equality Race in the Media Award.\n\nAfter turning to writing novels rather than poetry for a period of time, D'Aguiar returned to the poetic mode in 1998, publishing \"Bill of Rights\" (1998): a long narrative poem about the Jonestown massacre in Guyana in 1979, which is told in Guyanese versions of English, fusing patois, Creole and nation language with the standard vernacular. It was shortlisted for the 1998 T. S. Eliot Prize. \"Bill of Rights\" was followed by another narrative poem, \"Bloodlines\" (2000), which tells the story of a black slave and her white lover. His 2009 collection of poetry, \"Continental Shelf\", centres on a response to the Virginia Tech Massacre in which 32 people were killed by a student in 2007. It was a finalist for the 2009 T. S. Eliot Prize.\n\nD'Aguiar's first novel, \"The Longest Memory\" (1994), tells the story of Whitechapel, a slave on an eighteenth-century Virginia plantation. The book won both the David Higham Prize for Fiction and the Whitbread First Novel Award. It was adapted for television and televised by Channel 4 in the UK. Returning to themes he had earlier developed in \"British Subjects\", D'Aguiar's 1996 novel, \"Dear Future\", explores the history of the West Indian diaspora through a fictional account of the lives of one extended family. D'Aguiar's third novel, \"Feeding the Ghosts\" (1997), was inspired by a visit D'Aguiar made to the Merseyside Maritime Museum in Liverpool and is based on the true story of the \"Zong\" massacre in which 132 slaves were thrown from a slave ship into the Atlantic for insurance purposes. According to historical accounts, one slave survived and climbed back onto the ship; and in D'Aguiar's narrative this slave - about whom there is next to no historical information - is developed as the fictional character Mintah. His fourth novel, \"Bethany Bettany\" (2003), centres on a five-year-old Guyanese girl, Bethany, whose suffering has been read by some as symbolising that of a nation (Guyana) seeking to make itself whole again. His 2014 novel \"Children of Paradise\" is a fictional reimagining of the Jonestown massacre told through the perspective of a mother and child living at the commune.\n\nD'Aguiar's plays include \"High Life\", which was first produced at the Albany Empire in London in 1987, and \"A Jamaican Airman Foresees His Death\", performed at the Royal Court Theatre, London, in 1991. His radio play \"Mr Reasonable\" – about a freed black slave, a skilled silk weaver, who is engaged by Shakespeare to make theatreical costumes – was broadcast on BBC Radio 4 on 10 April 2015.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43166694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43166694", "title": "General Assembly (school)", "text": "General Assembly (school)\n\nGeneral Assembly is a private, for-profit education organization founded by CEO Jake Schwartz, Adam Pritzker, Matthew Brimer, and Brad Hargreaves in early 2011. It maintains campuses in numerous countries throughout the world to teach entrepreneurs and business professionals practical technology skills. It provides courses in mobile and web development, data science, product management, and other digital-related courses.\n\nGeneral Assembly began in early 2011 as a co-working space in Midtown Manhattan, and evolved into a private school. It built its first campus in the Flatiron District with a grant from the New York City Economic Development Corporation. In 2015 the company raised $70 million in venture capital funding. , General Assembly has 15 campus locations on 4 continents and planned to expand in Silicon Valley or near San Jose and possibly in Miami.\n\nIn April 2018, human resources services company Adecco Group announced they were acquiring General Assembly for $413 million.\n\nGeneral Assembly focuses on offering short courses, online classes (including overnight courses and free short online courses), and immersive 10- and 12- week 'boot-camp' style courses in computer programming, data science, and product management, with an emphasis on web development and user experience design. Approximately 20% of its courses are offered through companies to their employees. In 2016 it worked with accounting firms to develop a framework for assessing student outcomes that it itends to market to other private educational institutions.\n\nGeneral Assembly is not accredited but has been approved by the California Bureau for Private Postsecondary Education. The organization was last ranked on SwitchUp.org, a third-party verified review site, with an alumni score of 4.2 out of 5 stars.\n\nLocal General Assembly branches have participated in training the homeless. On Women's Equality Day in 2016 the company launched a hashtag campaign, #ilooklikeadeveloper, and scheduled events around the world focusing on women in computing.\n\n"}
{"id": "12145592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12145592", "title": "Gordon College of Education", "text": "Gordon College of Education\n\nGordon College of Education is a teachers college in Haifa, Israel.\nGordon College was established in Haifa in 1953, merging the Teacher’s Seminary of the Labor Movement with the Teacher’s Seminary of the Hebrew Reali School of Haifa. From its foundation, it has focused on the development of teaching skills and furthered Zionist, Jewish and humanistic values. From 1953 until 1995, Gordon College was accredited to certify teachers. In 1995, it received academic accreditation to grant the Bachelor of Education Degree (B.Ed). \nGordon College is also a center of teacher’s enrichment programs for the Ministry of Education of Northern Israel.\n\nThe school has a teaching staff of 200, ranging from full professors to lecturers, and a student body of over 1,600.\n\n"}
{"id": "9688923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9688923", "title": "Grace de Laguna", "text": "Grace de Laguna\n\nGrace de Laguna (28 September 1878 – 17 February 1978) was an American philosopher who taught at Bryn Mawr College in Pennsylvania.\n\nGrace Mead Andrus, as she was born, was of Connecticut ancestry, her father Wallace R. Andrus, having served in the 17th Connecticut Volunteers in the Civil War; he was later a land agent for the Northern Pacific Railway. Her mother was Annis Mead. She was raised in the Oregon Territory.\n\nShe attended the Sage School of Philosophy at Cornell University, where she received her Ph.D. and met Theodore de Laguna, an instructor there, whom she married.\n\nGrace and Theodore both taught philosophy for many years at Bryn Mawr, starting in 1907. She became chair of philosophy at Bryn Mawr after Theodore's death in 1930.\n\nIn the 1940s, she accompanied her daughter, the anthropologist Frederica de Laguna, on anthropological field trips in Arizona and among the Salish people of the Pacific Northwest.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25595129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25595129", "title": "Helen Lewis (choreographer)", "text": "Helen Lewis (choreographer)\n\nHelen Lewis MBE (\"née\" Katz, Trutnov, Bohemia, 22 June 1916 – Belfast, Northern Ireland, 31 December 2009) was a pioneer of modern dance in Northern Ireland, and made her name as a dance teacher and choreographer. A survivor of the Holocaust, she was also known for her memoir of her experiences during the Second World War.\n\nHelena Katz was born in 1916 into a German-speaking Jewish family in Trutnov in Bohemia (later in Czechoslovakia, now in the Czech Republic). After she completed study at the Realgymnasium of Trutnov in 1935, she and her mother moved to Prague; her father had died in the previous year. There she studied dance with , who had trained with Rudolf Laban. Katz also studied philosophy at the German University of Prague, and took private lessons in French. In about 1936 she met Paul Hermann, a Czech from a Jewish family, and in 1938, after she had finished her dance training and her university exams, they were married. She taught as an assistant at Mayerová's dance school, and experimented with choreography.\n\nFollowing the invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1939, deportations of Jewish families began in August 1941. The Hermanns were sent in 1942 to Terezín; in 1944 they were transferred to Auschwitz and separated. Paul Hermann died in 1945 on a forced march, not long before the end of the Second World War. Helen, who survived two \"selections\" by Dr Josef Mengele, was later sent to Stutthof concentration camp in northern Poland.\n\nWhen the war ended, she returned to Prague, where she learnt of her husband's death; her mother, who had been deported early in 1942, had died at Sobibór extermination camp. Helen began to correspond with Harry Lewis, a Czech with British nationality whom she had known at school and with whom she had had a brief romance before she met Hermann. She married Lewis in Prague in the summer of 1947 and in October moved to Belfast.\n\nAfter the birth of her two sons, Michael and Robin, in 1949 and 1954, Lewis began to work as a choreographer. In 1956, she created the choreography for the productions \"The Bartered Bride\" of Smetana at Grosvenor High School in Belfast, for a performance of Dvořák's \"The Golden Spinning Wheel\" at the Belfast Ballet Club, and for a \"Macbeth\" at the Lyric Theatre, Belfast. Lewis also taught modern dance, and in 1962 started the Belfast Modern Dance Group. \n\nHer book \"A Time to Speak\", about her experiences before and during the war, was published in 1992 and was translated into several languages. It was adapted for the theatre by Sam McCready and performed at the Lyric Theatre during the Belfast Festival in 2009. It was also performed at Exeter Synagogue in 2010.\n\nShe died in Belfast on 31 December 2009, aged 93.\n\nA dance studio at the Crescent Arts Centre in Belfast is named after her.\n\nIn the 2001 Birthday Honours, Helen Lewis was awarded an MBE for her services to contemporary dance. She was awarded honorary doctorates by Queen's University, Belfast and by Ulster University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3057927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3057927", "title": "Italian Minister of Education", "text": "Italian Minister of Education\n\nBelow is a list of Italian Ministers of Public Education since the birth of the Italian Republic in 1946. The list shows also the ministers that served under the same office but with other names, in fact this Ministry has changed name many times.\n\nThe Minister of Public Education leads the Ministry of Education, Universities and Research.\n\n"}
{"id": "15425855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15425855", "title": "Jean Watson", "text": "Jean Watson\n\nJean Watson is an American nurse theorist and nursing professor who is best known for her Theory of human caring. She is the author of numerous texts, including \"Nursing: The Philosophy and Science of Caring.\" Watson's research on caring has been incorporated into education and patient care at hundreds of nursing schools and healthcare facilities across the world.\n\nWatson was born on June 10, 1940 in Williamson, West Virginia.\n\nJean Watson graduated from the Lewis Gale School of Nursing in Roanoke, Virginia, in 1961. She continued her nursing studies at the University of Colorado at Boulder, earning a B.S. in 1964, an M.S. in psychiatric and mental health nursing in 1966, and a Ph.D. in educational psychology and counseling in 1973. She has been awarded nine honorary doctoral degrees in six countries.\n\nWatson developed the Theory of Human Caring. She founded the non-profit Watson Caring Science Institute in 2008. Theory of Human Caring defined...\n\nWatson is a Distinguished Professor of Nursing at the University of Colorado, where she formerly served as Dean of Nursing.\n\nShe is a past president of the National League for Nursing.\n\n\n<br>\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "261226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=261226", "title": "Jerome Bruner", "text": "Jerome Bruner\n\nJerome Seymour Bruner (October 1, 1915 – June 5, 2016) was an American psychologist who made significant contributions to human cognitive psychology and cognitive learning theory in educational psychology. Bruner was a senior research fellow at the New York University School of Law. He received a B.A. in 1937 from Duke University and a Ph.D. from Harvard University in 1941. A \"Review of General Psychology\" survey, published in 2002, ranked Bruner as the 28th most cited psychologist of the 20th century.\n\nBruner was born blind (due to cataracts) on October 1, 1915, in New York City, to Herman and Rose Bruner, who were Polish Jewish immigrants. An operation at age 2 restored his vision. He received a bachelor's of arts degree in Psychology, in 1937 from Duke University, and went on to earn a master's degree in Psychology in 1939 and then a doctorate in Psychology in 1941 from Harvard University. In 1939, Bruner published his first psychological article on the effect of thymus extract on the sexual behavior of the female rat. During World War II, Bruner served on the Psychological Warfare Division of the Supreme Headquarters Allied Expeditionary Force committee under General Dwight D. Eisenhower, researching social psychological phenomena.\n\nIn 1945, Bruner returned to Harvard as a psychology professor and was heavily involved in research relating to cognitive psychology and educational psychology. In 1970, Bruner left Harvard to teach at the University of Oxford in the United Kingdom. He returned to the United States in 1980, to continue his research in developmental psychology. In 1991, Bruner joined the faculty at New York University (NYU), where he taught primarily in the School of Law.\n\nAs an adjunct professor at NYU School of Law, Bruner studied how psychology affects legal practice. During his career, Bruner was awarded honorary doctorates from Yale University, Columbia University, The New School, the Sorbonne, the ISPA Instituto Universitário, as well as colleges and universities in such locations as Berlin and Rome, and was a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He turned 100 in October 2015 and died on June 5, 2016.\n\nBruner is one of the pioneers of cognitive psychology in the United States, which began through his own early research on sensation and perception as being active, rather than passive processes.\n\nIn 1947, Bruner published his study \"Value and Need as Organizing Factors in Perception\", in which poor and rich children were asked to estimate the size of coins or wooden disks the size of American pennies, nickels, dimes, quarters and half-dollars. The results showed that the value and need the poor and rich children associated with coins caused them to significantly overestimate the size of the coins, especially when compared to their more accurate estimations of the same size disks.\n\nSimilarly, another study conducted by Bruner and Leo Postman showed slower reaction times and less accurate answers when a deck of playing cards reversed the color of the suit symbol for some cards (e.g. red spades and black hearts). These series of experiments issued in what some called the 'New Look' psychology, which challenged psychologists to study not just an organism's response to a stimulus, but also its internal interpretation. After these experiments on perception, Bruner turned his attention to the actual cognitions that he had indirectly studied in his perception studies.\n\nIn 1956, Bruner published the book \"A Study of Thinking\", which formally initiated the study of cognitive psychology. Soon afterward Bruner helped found the Harvard Center of Cognitive Studies. After a time, Bruner began to research other topics in psychology, but in 1990 he returned to the subject and gave a series of lectures, later compiled into the book \"Acts of Meaning\". In these lectures, Bruner refuted the computer model for studying the mind, advocating a more holistic understanding of the mind and its cognitions.\n\nBeginning around 1967, Bruner turned his attention to the subject of developmental psychology and studied the way children learn. He coined the term \"scaffolding\" to describe the way children often build on the information they have already mastered. In his research on the development of children (1966) Bruner proposed three modes of representation: enactive representation (action-based), iconic representation (image-based), and symbolic representation (language-based). Rather than neatly delineated stages, the modes of representation are integrated and only loosely sequential as they \"translate\" into each other. Symbolic representation remains the ultimate mode, for it \"is clearly the most mysterious of the three.\"\n\nBruner's theory suggests it is efficacious, when faced with new material, to follow a progression from enactive to iconic to symbolic representation; this holds true even for adult learners. A true instructional designer, Bruner's work also suggests that a learner (even of a very young age) is capable of learning any material so long as the instruction is organized appropriately, in sharp contrast to the beliefs of Piaget and other stage theorists. (Driscoll, Marcy). Like Bloom's Taxonomy, Bruner suggests a system of coding in which people form a hierarchical arrangement of related categories. Each successively higher level of categories becomes more specific, echoing Benjamin Bloom's understanding of knowledge acquisition as well as the related idea of instructional scaffolding.\n\nIn accordance with this understanding of learning, Bruner proposed the spiral curriculum, a teaching approach in which each subject or skill area is revisited at intervals, at a more sophisticated level each time. First there is basic knowledge of a subject, then more sophistication is added, reinforcing principles that were first discussed. This system is used in China and India. Bruner's spiral curriculum, however, draws heavily from evolution to explain how to learn better and thus it drew criticism from conservatives. In the United States classes are split by grade—life sciences in 9th grade, chemistry in 10th, physics in 11th. The spiral teaches life sciences, chemistry, physics all in one year, then two subjects, then one, then all three again to understand how they mold together. Bruner also believes learning should be spurred by interest in the material rather than tests or punishment, since one learns best when one finds the acquired knowledge appealing.\n\nWhile Bruner was at Harvard he published a series of works about his assessment of current educational systems and ways that education could be improved. In 1961, he published the book \"Process of Education\". Bruner also served as a member of the Educational Panel of the President's Science Advisory Committee during the presidencies of John F. Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson. Referencing his overall view that education should not focus merely on memorizing facts, Bruner wrote in \"Process of Education\" that \"knowing how something is put together is worth a thousand facts about it.\" From 1964–1996 Bruner sought to develop a complete curriculum for the educational system that would meet the needs of students in three main areas which he called . Bruner wanted to create an educational environment that would focus on (1) what was uniquely human about human beings, (2) how humans got that way and (3) how humans could become more so. In 1966, Bruner published another book relevant to education, \"Towards a Theory of Instruction,\" and then in 1973, another book, \"The Relevance of Education.\" Finally, in 1996, in \"The Culture of Education,\" Bruner reassessed the state of educational practices three decades after he had begun his educational research. Bruner was also credited with helping found the Head Start early childcare program. Bruner was deeply impressed by his 1995 visit to the preschools of Reggio Emilia and has established a collaborative relationship with them to improve educational systems internationally. Equally important was the relationship with the Italian Ministry of Education which officially recognized the value of this innovative experience.\n\nIn 1972, Bruner was appointed Watts Professor of Experimental Psychology at the University of Oxford, where he remained until 1980. In his Oxford years, Bruner focused on early language development. Rejecting the nativist account of language acquisition proposed by Noam Chomsky, Bruner offered an alternative in the form of an interactionist or social interactionist theory of language development. In this approach, the social and interpersonal nature of language was emphasized, appealing to the work of philosophers such as Ludwig Wittgenstein, John L. Austin and John Searle for theoretical grounding. Following Lev Vygotsky the Russian theoretician of socio-cultural development, Bruner proposed that social interaction plays a fundamental role in the development of cognition in general and of language in particular. He emphasized that children learn language in order to communicate, and, at the same time, they also learn the linguistic code. Meaningful language is acquired in the context of meaningful parent-infant interaction, learning \"scaffolded\" or supported by the child's language acquisition support system (LASS).\n\nAt Oxford Bruner worked with a large group of graduate students and post-doctoral fellows to understand how young children manage to crack the linguistic code, among them Alison Garton, Alison Gopnik, Magda Kalmar (), Alan Leslie, Andrew Meltzoff, Anat Ninio, Roy Pea, Susan Sugarman, Michael Scaife, Marian Sigman, Kathy Sylva and many others. Much emphasis was placed on employing the then-revolutionary method of videotaped home-observations, Bruner showing the way to a new wave of researchers to get out of the laboratory and take on the complexities of naturally occurring events in a child's life. This work was published in a large number of journal articles, and in 1983 Bruner published a summary in the book \"Child's talk: Learning to Use Language\".\n\nThis decade of research established Bruner at the helm of the interactionist approach to language development, exploring such themes as the acquisition of communicative intents and the development of their linguistic expression, the interactive context of language use in early childhood, and the role of parental input and scaffolding behavior in the acquisition of linguistic forms. This work rests on the assumptions of a social constructivist theory of meaning according to which meaningful participation in the social life of a group as well as meaningful use of language involve an interpersonal, intersubjective, collaborative process of creating shared meaning. The elucidation of this process became the focus of Bruner's next period of work.\n\nIn 1980, Bruner returned to the United States, taking up the position of professor at the New School for Social Research in New York City in 1981. For the next decade, he worked on the development of a theory of the narrative construction of reality, culminating in several seminal publications. His book \"Actual Minds, Possible Worlds\" has been cited by over 16,100 scholarly publications, making it one of the most influential works of the 20th century.\n\nIn 1991, Bruner arrived at NYU as a visiting professor to do research and to found the Colloquium on the Theory of Legal Practice. The goal of this institution is to \"study how law is practiced and how its practice can be understood by using tools developed in anthropology, psychology, linguistics, and literary theory.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40244306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40244306", "title": "José Vasconcelos World Award of Education", "text": "José Vasconcelos World Award of Education\n\nThe José Vasconcelos World Award of Education is granted by the World Cultural Council as a recognition to renowned educators, to experts in the field of teaching, and to legislators of education policies who have significant influence in enriching the culture of mankind. This award has been presented biennially since 1988.\n\nThe qualifying jury is formed by several members of the Interdisciplinary Committee of the World Cultural Council and a group of distinguished educators.\n\nThe World Award of Education grants a Diploma, a Commemorative medal, and US$10,000.\n\nThe award is named after José Vasconcelos.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58139442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58139442", "title": "Julia Ward", "text": "Julia Ward\n\nJulia Ward (December 1900 – June, 18 1962) was the founder of the central reference division of National Security Agency (NSA). She was inducted into the Cryptologic Hall of Honor in 2002.\n\nWard received her A.B. from Bryn Mawr College in 1923 and her Ph.D from Bryn Mawr College in 1940. \n\nDr. Ward joined the cryptologic service during WWII and worked for the Signal Security Agency (the Army's cryptologic organization). She also worked as a librarian and eventually built a collection of classified and unclassified materials for use by analysts. In 1945 she became the deputy chief of the reference section. Within a few years, she turned the section into one that was known as poorly organized, into a section that was widely recognized and highly respected. \n\nIn 1949, Dr. Ward was named head of the Collateral Branch, thereby becoming the only female branch head in the Office of Operations. \n\nLater, in 1955 Dr. Ward, was promoted to deputy chief of NSA's Liaison and Foreign Operations Section. \n\nDr. Julia Ward was inducted into the NSA's Cryptologic Hall of Honor in June 2002 at the National Cryptologic Museum in Baltimore, MD. Bryn Mawr College has a plague in Dr. Ward's honor to commemorate her placement in the Hall of Honor.\n"}
{"id": "625514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=625514", "title": "List of Teachers' Days", "text": "List of Teachers' Days\n\nTeachers' Day is a special day for the appreciation of teachers, and may include celebrations to honor them for their special contributions in a particular field area, or the community in general.\n\nThe idea of celebrating Teachers' Day took root in many countries during the 19th century; in most cases, they celebrate a local educator or an important milestone in education. This is the primary reason why countries celebrate this day on different dates, unlike many other International Days. For example, Argentina has commemorated Domingo Faustino Sarmiento's death on 11 September) since 1915; while in India Guru Purnima is traditionally observed as a day to venerate teachers, the birthday of the second president Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan (5 September) is also celebrated as Teacher's Day since 1962.\n\nMany countries celebrate World Teachers' Day, established by UNESCO in 1994, on 5 October as their Teachers' Day.\n\nA day for homeschool teacher appreciation has been suggested, which several homeschooling groups subsequently organized. A United States \"parents as teachers day\" has existed on November 8 since the 1970s. While this initially focussed on the role of parents in early-childhood learning, some homeschoolers use it to acknowledge the primacy of the parental role in education.\n\n"}
{"id": "36780635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36780635", "title": "List of commencement speakers at Rice University", "text": "List of commencement speakers at Rice University\n\nIn 2013, Rice University held its 100th commencement. Since 1986, commencements have been held in the Academic Quadrangle (weather permitting). Every commencement at Rice has included the hymns \"Veni Creator Spiritus\" and \"Lord of All Being, Throned Afar\".\n\n\nFrom 1971 to 1990, Rice did not invite speakers to address graduates at commencement. During that time, addresses were given by university presidents Norman Hackerman (1971–1985) and George Rupp (1986–1990).\n\nFrom 1952 to 1985, commencements were held on the east side (lawn) of Lovett Hall.\n\n\nIn 1951, commencement was held in Autry Court.\n\n\nFrom 1935 to 1950, commencements were held in courtyard of the Chemistry Laboratories (now Keck Hall).\n\n\nFrom 1916 to 1948, commencements were held on Monday, preceded by a Baccalaureate sermon on Sunday.\n\n\nFrom 1942 to 1946, addresses were delivered by William Vermillion Houston, President of Rice Institute. In 1944 and 1946, Rice held two commencement ceremonies each year as part of a “wartime speed-up educational program.”\n\n\nFrom 1916 to 1934, commencements were held in the Academic Quadrangle.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49423533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49423533", "title": "List of organizations engaged in STEM education across Africa", "text": "List of organizations engaged in STEM education across Africa\n\nEducation in Science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) fields has been identified as a development goal in the global South. STEM oriented economies perform strongly on a number of economic indicators. Currently, there is a shortage of trained scientists in Africa. Many African countries are investing in STEM research and education, with the African Union encouraging its members to spend 1% of their GDP on STEM.\n\nThis is a list of organizations that are currently engaged in STEM Education activities and outreach across Sub-Saharan Africa. The organizations range in size, scope, funding mechanisms, and mission statements.\n\nAngola\nBenin\n\nBotswana\nBurundi\nCameroon\nCape Verde\nChad\nEthiopia\nGhana\nIvory Coast\n\nKenya (Education in Kenya)\nc STEM Africa\nLesotho\nMadagascar\nMalawi\nMali\nNigeria \"(\"\"Nigerian Ministry of Science & Technology)\"\nRwanda\nSenegal\nSouth Africa \"(Science and Technology in South Africa)\"\nTanzania\nTogo\nUganda\nZambia\nZimbabwe\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1348717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1348717", "title": "Lloyd Loar", "text": "Lloyd Loar\n\nLloyd Allayre Loar (1886 – 1943) was a designer for the Gibson Mandolin-Guitar Mfg. Co. Ltd. and sound engineer in the early part of the 20th century. He is most famous for his F-5 model mandolin and L-5 guitar. In his later years he worked on electric amplification of stringed instruments, and demonstrated them around the country. One example, played in public in 1938 was an electric viola that used electric coils beneath the bridge, with no back, able to \"drown out the loudest trumpet.\"\n\nIn 1898 Orville Gibson had patented a new kind of mandolin that followed violin design, with its curved top and bottom carved into shape, rather than pressed. The sides too were carved out of a single block of wood, rather than being made of bent wood strips. The instruments were already unique before Lloyd Loar came to work for Gibson. However, it is the Loar-designed instruments that became especially desirable. First made famous by Bill Monroe, Loar's signed mandolins today can cost as much as 200,000 dollars. The L-5 guitar owned by Maybelle Carter, which was made after he left Gibson, sold for 575,000 dollars.\n\nAmong the changes that Loar introduced was the f-hole instead of a round or oval sound-hole, another violin-family feature imported to the mandolin. He also \"tuned\" the tops of the instrument and the sound chamber (by removing bits of wood from sound bars and from the edges of the sound holes) so that the instrument's sound chamber was resonant to a particular note. Another change that Loar introduced to the Gibson line was a tone-producer, a circle of wood inside the instrument on the underside of the sound board that produced \"overtones.\" His idea was to have a more complete set of these overtones with the carved top instruments. The result was an instrument that, like Stradivarius’ violins, has presented challenges to duplicate. Luthier-researchers such as Roger Siminoff have worked to understand the fine details. Gibsons' and Loar's mandolins were instrumental in displacing the round-backed instrument from the American market and influenced mandolins worldwide.\n\nHe also developed keyboard-stringed instruments. According to Roger Siminoff, he developed unique mechanisms to create sound. One plucked strings, the other struck metal reeds.\n\nLoar was also a well-regarded musician on mandolin, viola, and musical saw. He traveled the United States and Europe in several musical groups. In one group, he performed with his future wife, Fisher Shipp. A surviving playbill shows that Loar performed in a chatauqua that also included a speech by William Jennings Bryan. Loar performed in many other groups that promoted the Gibson company, whose products Loar endorses in early Gibson catalogs.\n\nLloyd also taught at Northwestern University from 1930 to 1943, teaching vocal composition, advanced music theory and \"The Physics of Music\".\n\nLoar worked for Gibson from 1919 to 1924. His contributions include building the instrument top with F-shaped holes, like a violin; introducing a longer neck, thus moving the bridge closer to the center of the body; and floating the fingerboard over the top, a change from prior Gibson instruments that had fingerboards fused to the top. He also pioneered the use of the Virzi Tone Producer, a spruce disc suspended from the instrument top that acts as a supplemental soundboard.\n\nAccording to A. R. Duchossoir, Loar designed experimental electric instruments while at Gibson. Loar's views on the importance of the development of electric instruments were supported by Lewis A Williams, one of the founders and major stockholders of Gibson as well as its secretary and general manager.\n\nNone of Loar's original electric instruments appear to have been preserved—but Walter A Fuller, who joined Gibson in 1933 and later became Gibson's chief electronic engineer, found some of Loar's original devices when he first set up his R&D lab in the mid-1930s. He claimed that Loar's electrics had electrostatic pickups, but because they exhibited very high impedance they were extremely susceptible to humidity. According to Fuller, the pickups were round, about the size of a silver dollar and had a piece of cork on the back, by which they were glued to the underside of the top of the instrument.\n\nDuchossior's book, \"Gibson Electrics, The Classic Years\", features a photo of a Gibson L5, serial number 88258 of 1929 (after Loar left Gibson), one of the original Loar-designed L5s, with fitted electrostatic pickup and factory-fitted jack socket in the tailpiece.\n\nDuchossoir also claims that Loar spent time at Gibson working on a 'quasi-solid body' electric double bass, and that according to this instrument and several patents filed by Loar between the mid-1920s and the mid-1930s, he worked on pickups that were electromagnetic in nature.\n\nAccording to Duchossoir, Lewis Williams was replaced as general manager, and a lack of amicable relations with the new manager—an accountant named Guy Hart—led to the termination of Loar's contract. After leaving Gibson, Loar created and patented an electric instrument with a coil pickup, and co-founded the Acousti-Lectric company with Lewis Williams in 1934. The company was renamed the Vivi-Tone company in 1936. Loar died in 1943.\nThe F5 model was made famous by the founder of bluegrass, Bill Monroe. Monroe played a Gibson F5 model serial number 73987 signed by Loar on July 9, 1923 for most of his career. This mandolin can be viewed in the Country Music Hall of Fame in Nashville, Tennessee, where it now resides in their collections.\n\nLoar also signed a rare subset of F5 mandolins called \"Ferns\", of which approximately twenty are known to exist. The name refers to the distinctive fern inlay design of the peghead. The earliest documented Fern bears the serial number 73755, dated July 9, 1923, the same signing date as Bill Monroe's famous Loar . This is the only known Fern built without the \"\"Virzi\" Tone Producer\", a secondary sound board suspended underneath the mandolin's top inside the sound chamber. This particular instrument is the only known Fern dated on 9 July.\nIn 2007, mandolinist Chris Thile acquired 1924 Loar-signed F5 serial # 75316 that was an exceedingly rare find, as it was in virtually new condition. It reportedly cost him around $200,000. Other well-known musicians who have owned Loar-signed F5's include John Paul Jones serial # 75317, Mike Marshall, David McLaughlin, Herschel Sizemore, Alan Bibey, Tony Williamson, David Grisman, John Reischman, Tom Rozum, Frank Wakefield, and the late Joe Val serial #72207.\n\nOnly one A-style mandolin, a Gibson A5, is known to have been signed by Loar. It has been widely copied, originally by mandolin maker Bob Givens. The Loar A5 was found by Tut Taylor and sold to a Southern California bluegrass musician in 1974.\n\nAs of January 2010, Loar-signed mandolins in fine condition are valued in the $175,000 to $200,000 range, and are highly sought after by musicians and collectors. The average value reached a 2008 peak of around $225,000, then backed off somewhat from 2008 to 2010.\n\nLoar expert Darryl Wolfe maintains an F5 historical journal. As of January, 2010 he has documented 228 Loar-signed F5 mandolins of the 326 that are believed to have been made.\n\nThe Gibson L-5 guitar was first produced in 1922 by the Gibson Guitar Corporation, then of Kalamazoo, Michigan, under the direction of master luthier Lloyd Loar, and has been in production ever since. It was considered the premier guitar of the company during the big band era. It was originally offered as an acoustic instrument, with electric models not made available until the 1940s.\n\nWorldwide, the L-5 was the first guitar to feature f-holes. Then as well as today, the construction of the L-5 is similar in construction, carving, bracing and tap-tuning, to building a cello. This guitar as well as the cello are similarly designed in order to amplify and project the acoustic vibration of strings throughout carved and tuned woods, using f-holes as the projection points. From 1922 to 1934 the L-5 was produced with a 16\" lower bout width. In 1934 the lower bout was increased to 17\" - and this width is still used today. Also released in 1934 was the one-inch larger 18\" archtop guitar named the \"L5 Super\" which a couple of years later was renamed the Gibson Super 400. These two master-built acoustic guitars are Gibson's top-of-the-line carved wood and highly ornate archtop instruments. These guitars cannot be constructed quickly and require unusual attention to detail, resulting in a higher price. The time, skilled workmanship and materials used in these builds has been delivered non-stop for the past 90+ years. Since the 1930s there have been several other 17\" archtops designed by Gibson, including variations introduced as more affordable, less ornately decorated models - these were introduced to consider the budgets of musicians.\n\n"}
{"id": "2828626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2828626", "title": "Magic sand", "text": "Magic sand\n\nMagic sand or hydrophobic sand is a toy made from sand coated with a hydrophobic compound. The presence of this hydrophobic compound causes the grains of sand to adhere to one another and form cylinders (to minimize surface area) when exposed to water. When the sand is removed from water, it is completely dry and free flowing. Magic sand is also known as Aqua Sand.\nThese properties are achieved with ordinary beach sand, which contains tiny particles of pure silica, and exposing it to vapors of trimethylsilanol (CH)SiOH, an organosilicon compound. Upon exposure, the trimethylsilane compound bonds to the silica particles while forming water. The exteriors of the sand grains are thus coated with hydrophobic groups.\n\nMagic sand was originally developed to trap ocean oil spills near the shore. This would be done by sprinkling magic sand on floating petroleum, which would then mix with the oil and make it heavy enough to sink. Due to the expense of production, it is not being used for this purpose. It has also been tested by utility companies in Arctic regions as a foundation for junction boxes, as it never freezes. It can be also used as an aerating medium for potted plants.\n\nMagic sand is made in blue, green, or red in colors but appears silvery in water because of a layer of air that forms around the sand, making it unable to get wet.\n\nThe earliest reference to waterproof sand is in the 1915 book \"The Boy Mechanic Book 2\" published by \"Popular Mechanics\". The Boy Mechanic states waterproof sand was invented by East Indian magicians. The sand was made by mixing heated sand with melted wax. The wax would repel water when the sand was exposed to water.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30330486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30330486", "title": "Mary Lucas", "text": "Mary Lucas\n\nMary Lucas née Anderson (1882–1952) was an English composer. She studied in Dresden and at the Royal College of Music with Herbert Howells and R.O. Morris. She married entrepreneur and inventor Ralph Lucas in 1903 and her son Colin became a noted architect. She gave up composition for a few years after she married, but returned to produce a number of successful compositions. Her \"Sonata\" for clarinet was written for Pauline Juler in 1938. Lucas' papers are partially housed at the British Library, while some manuscripts and other papers are held at the Guildhall School of Music and Drama.\n\nSelected works include:\n"}
{"id": "43497778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43497778", "title": "National Wind Tunnel Facility", "text": "National Wind Tunnel Facility\n\nThe National Wind Tunnel Facility (NWTF), is an initiative in which 17 wind tunnels distributed across seven UK universities (host institutions) are made open access (for up to 25% of time) to external researchers in the UK and abroad, from both university and industry based. \n\nNWTF is intended to be as inclusive as possible while still supporting the best science. The scheme was announced on 9 January 2014 by David Willetts, Minister for Science and Universities. The total funding for the Facility is £13.3 million, £10.7 million coming from EPSRC and £2.6 million from the UK Aerospace Technology Institute. \n\nThe EPSRC and ATI decided to fund the NWTF in order to match the UK talent base to world-class wind tunnel facilities. The enhanced UK capability in experimental aerodynamics is available to all UK-based researchers. The stated aim was to create nodes of excellence attracting young researchers. Another aim was to establish a closer tie with industry, creating a pull-through environment and an intended spill-over of the collaboration and benefits to other sectors.\n\nThe NWTF programme was to have a duration of five years. A mid-term review was to review the progress made during the first two and a half years. The current end date is December 2018,\nThe NWTF has a Management Board (MB) that meets approximately every 3 months. This is composed of a Principal Investigator from each of the current host institutions and the NWTF Project Manager. The current MB members are Professor Holger Babinsky (University of Cambridge), Professor Chris Atkin (City University), Professor Kevin Garry (Cranfield University), Dr Richard Green (University of Glasgow), Professor Jonathan Morrison (Imperial College), Professor Peter Ireland (University of Oxford), Professor Bharathram Ganapathisubramani (University of Southampton) and Dr Kevin Gouder (NWTF Project Manager). A\n\nn Advisory Board (AB) oversees the broader aims of the NWTF, monitors the running of the NWTF and reviews progress versus Key Performance Indicators. The AB is composed of representatives from EPSRC, ATI, senior academics (from the UK and abroad), representatives from industry, an existing National Facility Manager and is chaired by an independent senior UK-based aerodynamicist. \n"}
{"id": "53995199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53995199", "title": "Naumburg Cathedral and the High Medieval Cultural Landscape of the Rivers Saale and Unstrut", "text": "Naumburg Cathedral and the High Medieval Cultural Landscape of the Rivers Saale and Unstrut\n\nThe Naumburg Cathedral and the High Medieval Cultural Landscape of the Rivers Saale and Unstrut is situated at the heart of the Federal Republic of Germany in the State of Saxony-Anhalt. Naumburg Cathedral and the landscpae has been proposed by Germany for inscription in the List of World Heritage. On July 1, 2018, only Naumburg Cathedral was listed as a UNESCO World Heritage site.\n\nThe landscape arount the World Heritage nomination \"Naumburg Cathedral\" is representative for processes at the High Middle Ages that shaped the whole continent: Christianization, settlement and cultivation processes, the so-called Landesausbau, that took place between 1000 and 1300. This borderland region also bears witness of the intercultural exchange of different cultures in the High Middle Ages. The highest-ranking buildings and works of art, most of all Naumburg Cathedral with its globally unique artistic and iconographic founder figures, provides testimony to the claims to power and the self-confidence of the worldly and spiritual rulers as well as to the region’s crucial role as a place of interchange between Western and Eastern realms.\n\nIn 1998, Naumburg Cathedral was inscribed into the Tentative List for World Heritage nominations and extended seven years later by its surrounding cultural landscape. ″The ′Naumburg Cathedral and the surrounding cultural landscape along the rivers Saale and Unstrut′ are outstanding and representative examples of the High Middle Ages (1000-1300). Nowhere else in the world has such a high density of monuments and cultural landscape elements from the High Middle Ages been preserved in such a small space in such a level of authenticity in its original spatial setting.″.\nThe nomination was discussed on the 39th meeting of World Heritage Committee. The World Heritage Committee decided to defer the nomination in order to allow for a revision and renewed submission taking into account the recommendations of the ICOMOS-evaluation and seeking the guidance and advice by ICOMOS in the process.\nOn 1 February 2016, Germany submitted a renewed submission to the World Heritage Centre in Paris, UNESCO. This nomination was discussed at the 41st meeting of the World Heritage Committee in Kraków, Poland, from 2 until 12 July 2017 where the Committee decided upon the Outstanding Universal Value of the Naumburg Cathedral. Germany submitted the revised nomination \"Naumburg Cathedral\" on 1 February 2018. However, only Naumburg Cathedral was listed as a UNESCO World Heritage site on July 1, 2018. The German officials were indifferent about the decision of excluding the surrounding landscape.\n\nThe cultural landscape around the Naumburg Cathedral is a cultural landscape that illustrates the \"evolution of human society and settlement over time\". This landscape was created intentionally by man.\n\nThe Naumburg Cathedral and the High Medieval Cultural Landscape of the Rivers Saale and Unstrut displays the rise of the Central Middle Ages in Europe. This was a time of rise, a ″take off″ due to an increase in population, Christianization and major transformation in agriculture. The ″Landesausbau″, urban development, internal colonization and territorialisation, took place all across Europe. ″Never again has Europe seen such cultural and institutional uniformity as at that time″. \nThe nominated area serves as an extraordinary model region due to the density and quality of elements displaying mediaeval land development and land exploitation. It was a melting pot of populations of different origins, Frankish, Thuringian, Saxon, Flemish, and Slavonic. Furthermore, as a sensitive border region, it was shaped by ecclesiastical and secular powers seeking the rights of possession, representation and defense. \nIn the nominated landscape, 720 elements from the period of the Central Middle Ages are still in use, establish the identity of the region and give testimony of the shaping of border lands during a period of no more than 200 years in the High Middle Ages, which has in this instance been tangibly preserved to present day.\n\nThe landscape is characterized by authentic monuments, intact urban morphology and unchanged rural landscape from the High Middle Ages visible in Naumburg and Freyburg, around the villages of Ebersroda, Schleberoda, Gross-Wilsdorf and Flemmingen, as well as the vineyards of Dechantenberg, Schweigenberg, Köppelberg, and Saalhäuser. In total, four castles and four monastic complexes, two cities as well as villages, vineyards, fertile fields and pastures constitute this nomination. They form a serial nomination with a total of 11 components parts : \nThe nominated property is surrounded by a buffer zone ensuring the protection of relevant view axes and topographical characteristics as well as the integrity of the property.\n\nNaumburg Cathedral is known for its architecture, sculptures and images: ″The harmonic connection between architecture, sculpture and stained glass windows in the west choir of the cathedral counts among the most impressive creations of human creativity in the Middle Ages at large.″ The Romanesque core structure is flanked by two Gothic choirs in the east and in the west, built in the transitional style between Late Romanesque and Early Gothic.\n\nThe worldwide known workshop of sculptors and stonemasons, which was likely established in the early 13th century, known as the Naumburg Masters, was headed by a sculptor-architect, who has been described by scholars as ″an artist of real genius″. The quality of the work of the Naumburg Masters, marked by an extraordinary realism and individualism of sculptures and a detailed representation of the environment such as plants or ornaments, has justified Naumburg’s reputation beyond its region. The Naumburg Masters were conveyors and pioneers of the innovations in architecture and sculpture of the Late Hohenstaufen period in the 13th century. Their building workshop has left traces of its work all the way from Northern France over the Middle Rhine area up to the eastern boundaries of the German Empire and further on the southwestern Europe. It reflects the cultural artistic exchange during the High Middle Ages.\n\nOne feature of the Naumburg Cathedral is its two almost completely preserved choir screen structures from the 13th century. In the east choir, the only late Romanesque hall choir screen has survived. In the west choir, there is a Gothic partition-type screen: ″Even within the tiny corpus of medieval churches whose original configurations of architecture and sculpture remain intact, the arrangement at Naumburg is unique.″\nThe western mural choir screen shows artistic quality in terms of architecture, ornamentation and figural sculptures: ″The mid-thirteenth-century west choir of Naumburg Cathedral has long been admired both for its unified architectural design″.″ The architecture has an organic character and provides information details such as historic local plants. The conceptually sophisticated arrangement of the passion of Christ is one of the most outstanding among the preserved sculptural ensembles from the 13th century, providing i.a. detailed information on contemporary clothing. The Naumburg Master achieved a degree of dramatic expressiveness and natural vibrancy that conveys the suffering of Christ and the deep grief of Mary and St. John. The statues of the mourning Mary and St. John catch the viewers attention and draw them close to Christ.\n\nThe Early Gothic west choir was built with an elevated gallery portraying the founders. The life-sized representation of a group of 12 people of the high nobility that were neither emperor neither king is unique in art history : ″The twelve founder statues […] are extraordinary in many aspects. A series of monumental representations of secular male and female founders of the cathedral of Naumburg, the statues are characterized by startling vividness and by theatrical interaction″. The statues are considered ″sculptural ensemble of the major arts″ due to their expressiveness and to the individualized portraits. \n\nOne founder couple, Ekkehard II, Margrave of Meissen, with his wife Uta von Ballenstedt, stands in the north. Margravess Uta is presented like a queen with a fleur-de-lis crown. The sculpture of Uta has experienced an unparalleled cult, due considerably to photographs taken by the Naumburger photographer Walter Hege in the 1920s. Umberto Eco wrote in his ″History of Beauty″ that from all women of art history, the one he would like most have dinner with was in first place, ahead of all others, Uta von Naumburg. The founder figure of Uta also found her way in the UFA motion pictures and as the Queen of Disney's \"Snow White\", causing a huge wave of enthusiasm for this icon of gothic art.\n\nThe window paintings of the west choir were created from an unknown glass painting workshop in close consultation with the building workshop of the Naumburg Master, together creating unity and harmony. This becomes evident by the designs of the images of the saints that correspond with the founders’ sculptures in many aspects like positions, gestures and weapons. The portrayal of ten bishops of Naumburg at the bottom of the window rows creates the impression as if the statues of the founders were standing on the same level as the medals. The glass paintings count among the most significant glass paintings of their style from the 13th century.\n\nNaumburg was a bishop’s seat and an important market place founded at the beginning of the 11th century on the place of the former Slav fortress of Wethau. The development of the town is closely connected with one of the most powerful and noble Ekkehardine dynasty of that time, Emperor Conrad II and Bishop Hildeward of Zeitz. \nWith the consent of the pope John XIX and the emperor Konrad II, as well as citing the danger of Slav incursions, margrave Ekkerhard I relocated the Episcopal See of Zeitz to Naumburg. Along with the bishop’s seat he transferred his own family seat from Kleinjena to their own estate at the new castle ″Nuwemburch″ in Naumburg around 1028. Furthermore, he assigned the protection of the See to the ″new castle″, an event hitherto unparalleled in the history of the empire. This bold move enabled the construction of the first early Romanesque cathedral in Naumburg. \n\nIn 1033, another highly unusual event for this time took place: On the initiative of the bishop Kadeloh of Memleben, Emperor Conrad II granted the merchants of Kleinjena, who moved to Naumburg free trade and the heritable, interest-free ownership of their enclosed domicile. It is the earliest dated written document from 13 July 1033, that marked the Nuvemburg to the powerful market and merchant settlement in Naumburg. \nMargraves Ekkehard II and Hermann also established two monasteries, the Benedictine Monastery of St. George and the St Moritz Monastery. When the Ekkehardine dynasty died out by 1046, the bishops became the rulers of the town. By that time, Naumburg had already developed into a political, economic and religious center for the entirety of this border region. The trade routes in the region were relocated to Naumburg, which was strategically situated at the crossing of the Via Regia and the Regensburg Road.\nNowadays, the roads as well as parcel structures reflect the structure of the medieval civil town. The earliest stone buildings in Naumburg are situated in the cathedral precincts with the oldest residential tower of Naumburg with two Romanesque floors constructed probably in the mid-12th century at the cathedral precincts.\n\nThe old town of Freyburg is situated 9 kilometers north of Naumburg on the left bank of the Unstrut River. This component contains Neuenburg Castle above the river valley.\n\nAround 1090, it was most probably Louis the Springer who built the vast and impressive complex of Neuenburg Castle. Situated in the border region, this fortified castle served military purposes and reflected ambitions, self-confidence and sophistication of the Ludowingians. Already in 1100, Neuenburg Castle was the largest and most important fortification in central Germany and remained of outstanding political and military significance until the 13th century. It was designed as a border castle for the powerful Ludowinger dynasty and was part of a network of the landgraves’ castles, which also included Wartburg Castle. \n\nBuilt around 1090, Neuenburg Castle was extended and modernized on a large scale several times. With its 30 000 square meters, the castle was amongst the strongest architectural representations of military power in all of the empire. It has survived to a remarkable extend: Major sections of the curtain walls in the north and east, part of the gate, the bottom part of the cattle, the castle keep, trenches in the east and in the south are conserved until today. The landmark big William (Dicker Wilhelm) is situated in the north-eastern part of the complex and visible from far away as a symbol of power. The castle keep III is classified as an independent development next to the French residential towers (donjons) which produced similar examples in the Rhineland region. Around 1225, a residential tower (residential tower II) was built probably for the landgrave’s family outside the southern curtain wall. 1172 Emperor Friedrich I Barbarossa visited Neuenburg Castle – the legend of the “living wall” of soldiers providing the best military defense has its roots in this legendary visit.\n\nThe court culture of the Count Palatine at Neuenburg Castle was an extremely important center of literary activities in the Empire at the end of the 12th and beginning of the 13th century. The most important poets of the 13th century, namely Wolfram von Eschenbach and Walther von der Vogelweide stayed at Neuenburg Castle. Heinrich von Weldecke completed here the Eneas novel which was the foundation of the German language secular epic. ″When Veldeke was called to the court of Thuringia [..], he joined the entourage of a great patron and became the esteemed center of the most important literary circle that existed in Germany at the time″.\n\nThe Double Chapel of Neuenburg was developed around 1220 and is one of the best preserved Romanesque buildings of Neuenburg Castle. In terms of its architectural shapes and structural ornamentation, it is a unique achievement by combining the Saxon tradition with the then latest developments in art which emerged in the Rhineland region. The upper floor of the Double Chapel is a landmark of art because of the play of colors of the black column shafts made of carboniferous limestone, which came from the Northern French and Belgian region of the Ardennes, 500 kilometers away with the multi-coloured structural ornamentation. The polyglobed arches on the underside of the transverse arches are an example for the influences from the Morish part of Spain transmitted by Rhenanian Art. They are the only example of this form of ornament to the east of the Rhine and thus represent a unique item in architectural history.\n\nIn the last quarter of the 12th, Herman I from the Ludowinger dynasty founded the town of Freyburg. The town was built at the food of Neuenburg Castle around a rectangular market place to meet the demands of the increased population, to provide the Neuenburg Castle with merchandise and to secure the passage and revenues of the Unstrut River. The landgraves of Thuringia controlled the road in the valley by erecting this fortified town. The determinative ″frey″ (free) referred to the royal freedom granted to it when it was founded and to the baronial privilege of a nearly royal rank, which primarily reveals the self-image of its rulers. The unity of Neuenburg castle and the town of Freyburg is a typical feature of the policy of power of the Ludowingers.\n\nThe landgraves were not directly present in the town but resided in Neuenburg Castle. Landgrove Ludwig IV and his wife, the later Saint Elizabeth of Hungary, built the town parish church of St Mary’s to emphasize the baronial need for representation. The capital ornamentation in the entrance area with its diamond-shaped net and the Romanesque sculpting of the compact tympanum is of outstanding quality in the way of the curves of the bodies and the graphic lines of the figures were sculptured. \nFreyburg’s regular layout is a grid of roads crossing each other in right angles, a distinct transverse axis and its nearly exact subdivision in blocks. After the extinction of the Ludowinger dynasty in 1247, the city lost its significance but continued its viticulture for which it is still known in the Saale-Unstrut region today.\n\nThe Benedictine convent of nuns, the Zscheiplitz Monastery, was first mentioned in 1203 and is situated two kilometers west of Freyburg. The name of Zscheiplitz has its roots in the Slavic name ″ciplic″ (small). Around 1085, after the murder of landgrave Friedrich III, his widow Adelheid donated the estate of Zscheiplitz to the church. It was then turned into a Benedictine monastery. \nThe church of Zscheiplitz was built as a one-nave church in the 12th century and extended by a gallery to the west and in the north during the 13th century.\n\nThe vineyard of Schweigenberg is located west of Freyburg and was probably created by citizens of Freyburg upon the initiative of the landgraves of Thuringia and / or the monasteries of Goseck and Zscheiplitz in the 13th century. It benefitted from favorable climatic conditions and agrarian innovations for a diversified subsistence economy in the region. This vineyard is still recognized in Germany as a prime example of terraced winegrowing by way of hoe-farming as a monument of this traditional form of cultivation.\n\nThe monastery of Pforta was created by the Cistercian Order. The premises include functional buildings, the Romanesque House (grange), the Kleine Saale canal, as well as the vineyards of Köppelberg and Saalhäuser. The ensemble of Cistercian monuments attests to the order’s life and work and embodies the significant influence exerted in the wider Saale-Unstrut region and beyond the boundaries of the region.\n\nPforta Monastery was founded around 1132 on the initiative of bishop Udo I of Naumburg. It received only a very modest endowment of the order In order to be self-sufficient, it was located in the flood plain on the right bank of the Saale River to ensure sufficient water supply.The monks cultivated previous wetland areas and the monastery became soon one of the wealthiest and most influential monasteries throughout Central Germany for 400 years before it was closed in the course of the Reformation.\nThe name of Porta, meaning Porta Coeli – i.e. Pearly Gates – , refers to the architecture of the richly ornamented western façade of the minster with its Roman triumphal arch portal and a gallery underneath the crucifixion group that did not at all correspond to the strict stipulations of the order.\n\nThe minster was built in the 1130s in the plain character of the Cistercians monasteries. In 1251, the Cistercians decided on an ambitious building project. Even though the new church building with its west façade was still ascetic in the interior decor, it clearly reflected the significant economic and political power of the monastery. The Gothic choir of the minster is the architectural example of the regional Gothic reception with French roots, transferring the latest shapes and forms inspired by French Gothic design and adapting them to local conditions. The glass paintings of the church, including in Europe’s oldest Cistercian tracery rose window preserved almost completely together with its glazing, are an extraordinary treasure of medieval paintings.\n\nThe so-called Abbot’s Chapel (Abtskapelle) is considered to be an outstanding architectural example of the medieval infirmaries and nursing wards of the Cistercian monks. Before its conversion into an abbot’s home, it had been part of the infirmary wing, allowing people to participate in the mass from there. Rare elements were found in the structure such as the latrine and the chamber of the infirmary.\n\nIn 1180, the Cistercian monks created the Romanesque mill race called ″Kleine Saale″ (Little Saale), a canal of 10 kilometers length. The mill inside the monastery is one of the most significant and oldest preserved functional buildings in Central Germany. The Benedictine monks of St George, the canons of St Moritz in Naumburg, and the Naumburg cathedral chapter participated in the costs and maintenance of the Kleine Saale in return for rights of utilization. Maintenance work was managed by a water expert from Pforta Monastery and the highest-ranking fisherman from the Naumburg. The Kleine Saale shows the Cistercian hydraulic engineering at that time.\n\nThe Romanesque House is an impressive piece of evidence of a former grange of Pforta Monastery that was constructed to ensure economic independence. They were run by bearded lay brothers (conversi). The foundation of those granges was made possible because many rulers assigned possessions in return for burial rights for family members on the monastery grounds. The Cistercians successfully sold agricultural and craft products on the markets in Halle, Naumburg, Jena and Erfurt. With even greater success, they managed to enlist parts of the peasant population into their service, offering the liege lords compensation payments for their release from personal bondage. As a result of its aggressive economic policy of establishing granges, Pforta acquired a charter in 1215 to transport carts and loads through the margraviates of Meissen and Lower Lusatia – and thus to Silesia – without being charged taxes or dues.\n\nThe Cistercian monks set about profitably using the land they had bought in a single-minded, well-planned and versatile way. Economic activities of the Cistercians included quarrying, the planting of vines on the slopes of the Saale and other suitable areas, the planting of orchards, the establishment of smithies, workshops for weaving, fur production and shoe-making, the setting-up of bakeries and cheese dairies as well as intense sheep rearing, grain growing, timber rafting and fishing. The Cistercians expanded their property from the Köppelberg vineyard, and created nine steep slope vineyards between 1195 and 1208. At the end of the Middle Ages, the monastery owned 58 vineyards between Bad Kösen and Roßbach. Cellar and wine masters at Pforta ensured high quality in wine making, measuring it according to vinum bonum (1226), vinum melius (1289) or vinum terrestre (country wine, around 1340).\n\nThe area provided moderate climate, fertile soils, rich water sources and wood supply through forests and was populated by Stone Age hunters 380 000 years ago . From the Neolithic Age onwards throughout all prehistoric times, the area was settled.\n\nThe Migration Period brought decisive changes from 375 AD onwards and also had an influence on the Saale-Unstrut region. The local population, consisting of migrating Germanic Varini and Angles, merged to form the Thuringians. Following the defeat of the Thuringian army by Frankish troops in 531, the Merovingians as Frankish rulers settled groups of Frisians, Angles, Saxons and probably also Hessians to the south and north of the Unstrut in exchange for payment of tithes.\nThese settlers were met by Slav Sorb tribes originating from the region of the Dnieper, who came westward as far as the River Saale, crossed it repeatedly and beginning to settle on its western banks. The Sorbs had more than 50 civitates, meaning central strongholds with relating settlements. Such a fortified district or “Gau” developed on the site of today’s town of Naumburg and was called “Wethau”; the centre was a Sorb castle complex in Wettaburg (now an urban district of Naumburg) .\nThe region by the Saale and Unstrut rivers had thus become a sensitive border area because it marked the border between the peoples of Germanic and Slav origin and also the north-eastern border of Christianity in continental Europe.\n\nIn 766, a successful Frankish attack was launched against Wettaburg Castle, that was the headquarters of the Sorbs in the Saale-Unstrut region. The Frankish Empire was at its largest during the reign of Pippin’s son Charlemagne (768 – 814).\nThe Saale remained the lasting natural border with the Slavic territories. In conjunction with the hinterland, the Saale was protected from possible attacks from the east by a chain of closely neighboring strongholds and fortifications,including the ″Limes Sorabicus″. \nThe territory of the Frankish Empire extended in the first quarter of the 9th century from the Iberian Peninsula in the west to the Elbe and Saale in the east, from the North Sea in the north to Central Italy in the south. Thus most of Christian Europe was united in Charlemagne’s hands. However, Charlemagne’s successors were not able to maintain Imperial unity.\nIn 919, Heinrich, the duke of Saxony, also known as Henry the Fowler, became king of the Franks and the Saxons. As a result, the Saale-Unstrut region moved from a peripheral position in the Frankish empire to the focus of political interest. Heinrich expanded his power along the eastern border of the Empire by conquering the Slav tribes (928/929) and defeating the Hungarians by the Unstrut in 933. As a result of Heinrich I’s expansion policy and the conquest of the Slav tribes, the character of the area east of the Saale and Unstrut changed from a direct border area to a connecting region between the old settlement land to the west and the newly conquered regions by the Elbe. \nWith the consent of the Pope and the German Imperial bishops, the Emperor arranged for dioceses and bishop’s churches to be established in Merseburg, Zeitz and Meissen in 968, forming a new church province for the eastern part of the Empire within the equally newly founded archbishopric of Magdeburg.\n\nFrom the 10th century onwards, the Ekkehardine dynasty gained influence in the Empire. Contemporaneous Bishop Thietmar of Merseburg described the first prominent representative of this house, Ekkehard I, as a person with an outstanding lack of humility ″He was an ornament to the Empire, a treasure of the land, a hope for his subjects and a terror to his enemies and he would have been completely perfect if he had only been able to remain humble″.\nAfter the murder of the margrave Ekkehard I on 30 April 1002, Ekkehard’s sons, Margrave Hermann (1009 – 1038) and Margrave Ekkehard II (1009 – 1046), assumed power in 1009. They became the most powerful rulers in the eastern part of the Empire and moved their family seat from Kleinjena to the ″Neue Burg″ (New Castle, Naumburg). The rise of Naumburg as ecclesiastical, political, cultural and economic centre of the Saale-Unstrut region had begun. In this context, it has to be emphasized that Sorb ″Smurds″ and German residents lived largely peacefully alongside each other. \n\nThe bishops of Naumburg, the landgraves of Thuringia and the margraves of Meissen as lords of the town of Naumburg promoted a systematic development of the city into the most important town in the Saale-Unstrut region. In March 1131, Bishop Udo I met the Cistercian abbot Bernard of Clairvaux at the Imperial Diet in Liège in March 1131, a meeting of central significance for the propagation of the Cistercian order in the Empire. As a result, a delegation of monks from the Walkenried Cistercian monastery moved to a location next to Naumburg in 1137/1138. The founding of the Cistercian Pforta Monastery contributed to the propagation of the Order on to Eastern Europe. One of the greatest achievements of Pforta Monastery was furthermore the settlement of peasants in these regions. This so-called ″Landesausbau″ in the High Middle Ages was supplemented by military protection of the positions already achieved. \nFor the Saale-Unstrut region, the Ludowingers were, together with the Wettin dynasty, the most influential aristocratic dynasty during the 12th and the 13th century. The Ludowingers created a princely court culture modeled to equal royal forms. The magnificent court of Count Palatine Hermann of Saxony (1181 – 1217) at Neuenburg Castle was an extremely important center of literary activities in the Empire.\nThe Wettins, with Margrave Heinrich the Illustrious (1221 – 1288), were appointed as margraves to the east of the Saale. They were able to expand their territories and achieved political dominance in the whole Central German region during the 13th century, creating most favorable conditions for their homelands in the Saale-Unstrut region. The cooperation of the Cistercians with the Wettin and Ludowinger dynasties contributed to the transfer of spiritual, cultural and technological knowledge into the areas intended for colonization. Nevertheless, the economic emphasis moved gradually towards the east during the Late Middle Ages, when the importance of the relatively young town of Leipzig outdid that of the old trade fair town of Naumburg.\n\nFollowing the Reformation instigated by Martin Luther(1485 – 1546) in nearby Wittenberg, the Wettins and the region’s nobility turned to Protestantism, promoting and funding the reformers. As a result of the alliance of Protestant rulers and spiritual leaders, the monasteries and religious establishments in Naumburg, Goseck, Zscheiplitz and Pforta were closed between 1533 and 1540 and their endowments and properties confiscated. Only the property rights held by the Naumburg Cathedral chapter remained untouched.\n\nFrom the 18th century on, the castles along the Saale and Unstrut amidst their cultural landscape became prime subjects of romantic admiration. As a result of the Congress of Vienna, the kingdom of Saxony was forced to cede territories to the Prussian king in 1815. The landscape by the Saale and Unstrut now became part of the Prussian state until the end of the Second World War. Unlike many other regions, no drastic changes due to industrialization altered this landscape.\nIt was due to Walter Hege’s photographs published in 1925, that the founder figure of Uta became enormously popular but was exploited during the National Socialists’ regime. The regime turned Neuenburg Castle into a training centre for senior leaders of the German Girls’ Association (BDM) and the school at Pforta Monastery into a National Political Education Centre (NAPOLA) until the end of the regime. \nThe Saale-Unstrut region was spared destruction during the Second World War. The liberation by American troops in the spring of 1945 was followed in the summer of the same year by hand-over of the area to the Red Army and the Saale-Unstrut region thus became part of East Germany (GDR). There was no attempt in the Saale-Unstrut area to demolish old town quarters. After the reunification of the two German states in 1990 the well-preserved cultural landscape of the Saale-Unstrut region became part of the Federal State of Saxony-Anhalt.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1243489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1243489", "title": "Országos Középiskolai Tanulmányi Verseny", "text": "Országos Középiskolai Tanulmányi Verseny\n\nOrszágos Középiskolai Tanulmányi Verseny (OKTV) in Hungarian (rough translation: \"National Secondary School Academic Competition\"), is the most famous high leveled competition of Hungary (after qualification for Olympiads), whose winners usually are selected for ISOs, and they often receive gold medals or become Over All Winners. Students 15–18 years old (grades 9-12) complete in various subjects, such as natural sciences, IT, mathematics, history, philosophy, Hungarian literature and foreign languages. The top competitors have a significant advantage when they are applying for Hungarian universities. Usually, the ten best students are awarded exemption, but the number of awardees is determined for each subject at the beginning of each school year by the Ministry of Education.\n\nThe competition requirements are increasingly higher than IB's or Hungarian matura's, because the solution of these tasks need not only eminent knowledge of facts, but also creativity.\n\nStudents in 10th or 11th grade who were granted exemption from taking entrance exams were eligible for a scholarship in one of the United World Colleges. However, , these scholarships are open for other applicants, the grade requirements remaining the same.\n"}
{"id": "17404213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17404213", "title": "Otto Frederick Hunziker", "text": "Otto Frederick Hunziker\n\nOtto Frederick Hunziker (25 December 1873 – 16 November 1959) was a pioneer in the American and international dairy industry, as both an educator and a technical innovator. Hunziker was born and raised in Switzerland, emigrated to the U.S., and studied at Cornell University. He started and developed the dairy program at Purdue University when such programs were at their infancy. At this same time, Hunziker was heavily involved with the development of the American Dairy Science Association (ADSA) and the standardization and improvement of many dairy tests and processes. Hunziker wrote several of the leading dairy processing texts, which continue to be cited. After leaving Purdue University, Hunziker managed research and operations at a large, national condensary, continued to drive ADSA's standardization and publishing efforts, represented the U.S. at international dairy congresses, and facilitated dairy industry improvements across the globe.\n\nOtto Frederick Hunziker was born in Zürich, Switzerland, on 25 December 1873 to Karl Otto and Luise (Pupikofer) Hunziker.\nOtto's siblings were Karl Rudolf (born 5 February 1870, Zürich), Barbara Luise (17 June 1871 – 16 October 1871), and Marie Julie (23 July 1872 – 30 June 1938). Hunziker spent many early years in Goldbach, Switzerland, where his father was a pastor, professor, and member of the canton parliament. Otto attended the two-year course of studies at Strickhof Agricultural College in Zürich, graduating at age 19. In 1893, Otto Frederick Hunziker emigrated to the United States.\n\nDuring this time period, significant new development in dairy processing technology was occurring on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean. In 1890, Stephen Babcock published specifications for the Babcock test for milk fat content. In 1892, Dr. Niklaus Gerber acquired a Swiss patent on the Gerber method for analyzing fat content in milk. Dr. Gerber was based in Zürich, had studied at the University of Zürich, and worked for two years at the Swiss-American Milk Company in Little Falls, New York. Hunziker would spend a substantial amount of time studying and improving these analytic methods.\n\nIn the United States, Hunziker worked for two years as a laborer on a dairy farm near Attleboro, Massachusetts. To improve his English and commercial skills, he studied at Bryant and Stratton Business College (now Bryant University), Providence, Rhode Island in 1896. He returned to Switzerland briefly in 1898 before returning to receive a B.S. Agriculture in 1900 and M.S.A. in 1901 from Cornell University. He served as an assistant in charge of dairy bacteriology at Cornell University until 1902, when he equipped and operated a dairy manufacturing research laboratory for the Scranton Condensed Milk Company in Ellicottville, New York. Otto Frederick married Florence Belle Burne on 10 April 1905 in Portville, Cattaraugus County, New York.\n\nIn 1905 Hunziker accepted a position at Purdue University in West Lafayette, Indiana as head of Purdue's Dairy Department. Dairy departments were relatively new at American colleges. (The first dairy school in the U.S. was created at the University of Wisconsin in 1890.) Hunziker led Purdue's dairy department through significant growth.\n\nIn the summer of 1906, Hunziker was among 18 teachers and investigators meeting at the University of Illinois, Urbana, to found what was then known as National Association of Dairy Instructors and Investigators. (The following year, this association changed its name to \"Official Dairy Instructors' Association\" and, in 1916, changed its name to \"American Dairy Science Association\" (ADSA).) From 1910 to 1926, Hunziker chaired ADSA's Committee on Official Methods of Testing Milk and Cream for Butterfat. In 1911, this committee met in Washington, D.C. with the U.S. Bureau of Dairying, the U.S. Bureau of Standards and manufacturers of glassware. Standard specifications for Babcock glassware were published as a result of this meeting. Hunziker actively pursued numerous improvements to the testing methodology, which improved the quality and safety of dairy products. Hunziker was the third president of ADSA from 1910 through 1911. During Hunziker's presidency, ADSA also: created a national score card for scoring dairies; standardized dairy judging contests; secured scholarships for student contests; improved national milk standards; developed ties with breed associations; and, provided fora for industry discussions on dairy instruction and extension services.\n\nApart from application of improved pedagogy and scientific methodology, Hunziker oversaw planning and construction of Smith Hall, the building which thereafter housed Purdue's dairy manufacturing group, extension service, and creamery. While at Purdue, he published over 50 bulletins, leaflets, and scientific treatises addressing dairy farm and plant problems. In 1917, Hunziker left Purdue to manage manufacturing and research at the Blue Valley Creamery Company in Chicago, Illinois.\n\nHunziker wrote dairy articles and textbooks used throughout the world, developed dairy curricula, advocated for dairy laws, and developed standard testing methodology. In particular, Hunziker authored \"The Butter Industry, Prepared for Factory, School and Laboratory\", a well-known text in the industry that enjoyed at least three editions (1920, 1927, 1940). A book that Hunziker originally self-published in 1914, \"Condensed Milk and Milk Powder: Prepared for the Use of Milk Condenseries, Dairy Students and Pure Food Departments\", was republished in a seventh edition in October 2007 by Cartwright Press. According to one book review: \"The popularity of this book may be judged by the fact that this is the fourth edition, the three previous editions having long since been exhausted. The book is the most important contribution on the condensed milk and milk powder industry. It should be in the library of the teacher, the student or factory man interested in any phase of the condensed milk and milk powder industry.\" Both books are listed by Cornell University as \"Core Historical Literature of Agriculture\". In the 1920s, Hunziker initiated a \"dairy school over the air\"—a radio program on WGN for which dairy experts were invited to discuss various issues. Hunziker was a director of the National Dairy Council and is listed in The Ten Master Minds of Dairying. When the World's Dairy Congress was held in the U.S. in 1923, the U.S. Department of Agriculture selected Hunziker to head the industry and economics program. He later represented the United States at World Dairy Congresses in London, 1928; Copenhagen, 1931; Berlin, 1937; Stockholm, 1949; and The Hague, 1953. He obtained several United States patents, including: and . At Blue Valley, Hunziker established a research program for 22 creameries and two milk plants. In 1932, Purdue University bestowed an honorary doctoral degree in science. He retired from Blue Valley Creamery in 1939 to work as a consultant. In 1942, O F Hunziker was honored with the first ADSA honorary life membership. Hunziker was awarded numerous international honors for his work, including:\n\nAll three of Hunziker's sons attended Purdue University. Children of Otto and Florence were:\n\n\nOtto (Sr.) was on the board of the La Grange First Methodist Church and the La Grange Federal Savings and Loan Association as well as active in the Civic Club, Kiwanis Club, and American-Swiss Chamber of Commerce. Hobbies included water sports, mountain climbing, ice skating and gardening.\n\nOtto Frederick Hunziker died on 16 November 1959 in La Grange, Illinois. A portrait of Hunziker and plaque hang in Purdue's Smith Hall. In 1964, 283 leaders in the dairy industry were asked to name contributors most significantly shaping the dairy industry. Hunziker was listed third, ahead of such well-known industry luminaries as Gail Borden. He was also inducted into the National Dairy Shrine as a \"pioneer\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2971095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2971095", "title": "Realschule", "text": "Realschule\n\nRealschule () is a type of secondary school in Germany, Switzerland and Liechtenstein. It has also existed in Croatia (\"realna gimnazija\"), Austrian Empire, German Empire, Denmark and Norway (\"realskole\"), Sweden (\"realskola\"), Hungary (\"reáliskola\"), Slovenia (\"realka\") and in the Russian Empire (реальное училище).\n\nFor Johann Joachim Becher, education also had a mandate to support the replacement of the Holy Roman Empire with a more republican commonwealth. His school would have had the task of creating education and teaching an organized state structure. His ideal was the artisan, the educated scholar, the universal scientist.\n\nIn the German secondary school system, \"Realschule\" is ranked between Hauptschule (lowest) and Gymnasium (highest). After completing the \"Realschule\", good students are allowed to attend a professional Gymnasium or a general-education Gymnasium. They can also attend a \"Berufsschule\" or do an apprenticeship.\n\nIn most states of Germany, students start the \"Realschule\" at the age of ten or eleven and typically finish school at the age of 16–17. In some states, \"Realschulen\" have recently been replaced by \"Oberschulen\" or \"Sekundarschulen\".\nIn 2006 1.32 million German students attended a \"Realschule\".\n\nAt \"Realschule\", a student gets an extended education and learns at least one foreign language, usually English. In the state of Baden-Württemberg, after the sixth grade, the student has to choose among technology, home economics, and a second foreign language, usually French. The new subject becomes the student's fifth main subject, after German, maths, science and English; and it is also possible to learn other foreign languages in free workshops.\nOther subjects are geography, social sciences, economics, history, religious education, and physical education. After the 8th grade a student has to choose between arts and music.\n\nHigh school diplomas obtained in Canada or the United States are usually acknowledged as a \"Mittlere Reife\" (graduation from a \"Realschule\"). In some cases however students may apply for certain subjects at a university. All students holding an American high school diploma may apply for the \"Studienkolleg\", and after successfully graduating from this they may attend a German university. Those holding a high school diploma can choose from a wider range of possible major subjects at a German university if they did well on the SAT or ACT. Those who scored higher than 1300 on the SAT or higher than 28 on the ACT may apply for any subject at a German university.\n\nGymnasia and \"Realgymnasia\" are the classical higher or secondary schools of Germany.\n\nStarting in 2010/2011, \"Realschulen\" were formally abolished in Berlin and merged with \"Hauptschulen\" and the old \"Gesamtschulen\" to form a new type of comprehensive school, called \"Stadtteilschule\" in Hamburg and \"Sekundarschule\" in Berlin.\n\nAccording to the PISA examination the students attending a \"Realschule\" were outperformed by those attending a Gymnasium. However, they did better than those attending a \"Hauptschule\" or a Gesamtschule school.\n\nThe German tripartite system of education has been widely criticized for separating children along class lines at a very early age. For instance, in some German states, a decision is made in the sixth or even the fourth grade about whether a child is to continue in the Gymnasium, the \"Realschule\", or the \"Hauptschule\". Only the Gymnasium is a university-preparatory school, so critics argue essentially a decision is made as early as the fourth grade about whether a child will be allowed to attend college. \n\nThe system is considered so onerous outside Germany that the OECD even sent a special envoy to Germany to condemn current German practice. Specifically, the Brazilian expert found that German schools basically separate children according to social class, with children of academics and professionals more often being sent on to a Gymnasium, and working-class children being sent to a \"Realschule\" or a \"Hauptschule\".\n\nAccording to critics, the system is widely considered within Germany to be socially useful in the sense that the upper class is able to reserve the best schools for itself without having to resort to private schools. Finally, no democratic society outside the German-speaking world has tripartite school systems that separate children largely according to background; indeed, this finding was the main complaint about Germany in the recent PISA study.\n\nProponents of the tripartite system consider the arguments brought forward by the critics to be invalid. They point to the fact that not only Gymnasium, but also comprehensive schools and schools serving mature students such as the \"Kolleg\" or the \"Berufsoberschule\" offer the possibility for the \"Abitur\". Also it is possible to attend college without holding the \"Abitur\". They also hold the opinion that state-funded \"Realschulen\" and Gymnasiums offered many working-class children the possibility to move up the social ladder. Also, proponents of the tripartite system fear the abolishing Gymnasia and \"Realschulen\" will lead to the growth of a private school sector.\n\nProponents of the \"Realschule\" also hold the opinion that it aids students' personality development. According to a study those attending a \"Realschule\" became more altruistic and more likely to care for others over time.\n\nThe \"Erweiterte Realschule\" (expanded \"Realschule\") is a school that exists in the German State of the Saarland. It is not to be confused with the \"Realschule\". While the \"Realschule\" is a selective school, the \"Erweiterte Realschule\" is a school that does not select its students on the basis of academic achievement or aptitude. It streams students by perceived ability after 7th grade. The \"Realschule Plus\" is a non-selective school that exists in the State of Rhineland-Palatinate. It offers general education classes (that resemble normal \"Realschule\" classes) as well as remedial classes.\nThe \"Erweiterte Realschule\" and the \"Realschule Plus\" are not the school of first choice for many students and often are attended by students who have been turned down by or have been expelled from other schools.\n\nThe \"realskole\" existed in Norway between 1935 and 1970. It replaced the former \"middelskole\", and was the level between \"folkeskole\" (primary school) and gymnasium. The majority historically left school after \"folkeskole\", and the \"realskole\" was meant as preparation for the \"gymnasium\", itself a preparation for university studies. Only a small minority attended \"gymnasium\" in those times.\n\n"}
{"id": "21985324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21985324", "title": "Retroactive learning", "text": "Retroactive learning\n\nWithin theories of education, retroactive learning is a delay in understanding an experience, or review of learning experiences when resources become available.\n\nOften, it is not possible to learn while an event is occurring because the agent lacks the specific information or resources that it needs to learn. For example, an agent in a realtime environment may not have time to apply an iterative learning algorithm while it is performing a task. However, when a resource like time becomes available, the agent can replay the events and learn from them. Episodic memory allows previous experiences to be relived or rehearsed once resources are available so it can be reanalyzed with new knowledge or additional experiences.\n"}
{"id": "21386098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21386098", "title": "Sarajevo School of Science and Technology", "text": "Sarajevo School of Science and Technology\n\nSarajevo School of Science and Technology (SSST) is a private university, located in metropolitan Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, within the municipality of Ilidža. The university offers bachelor's degrees, master's degrees and doctorate degrees.\n\nThe university is in partnership with University of Buckingham of the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Sarajevo School of Science and Technology is an English language-based university.\n\nOn 6 June 2018, the University Sarajevo School of Science and Technology (SSST) was ranked as one of the top 600 universities in the World and the best ranked university in the Southeastern Europe (Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Albania, Kosovo, Serbia, Macedonia, Romania and Bulgaria) on the QS World University Rankings for the upcoming 2019 year. SSST was on the 571st place while others, like University of Ljubljana was ranked as 651st and University of Zagreb and University of Belgrade shared the 801st position.\n\nThe seven departments into which the university is divided are as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "20991041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20991041", "title": "She's Crafty", "text": "She's Crafty\n\nShe's Crafty is a Canadian TV program about making decorative crafts at home. Hosted by Wendy Russell, it is produced by Omni Film Productions for HGTV Canada, also airing on Fine Living Canada. In the United States, it airs over the air on Ion Life rather than HGTV or Fine Living.\n\n"}
{"id": "7675310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7675310", "title": "SilverPlatter", "text": "SilverPlatter\n\nSilverPlatter Information, Inc. was one of the first companies to produce commercial reference databases on CD-ROMs. It was founded in 1983 in the United Kingdom by Béla Hatvany and Walt Winshall with the explicit intention of using CD technology to publish data, and thus provide an alternative to searching databases in magnetic tape format. Ron Rietdyk was the company's first President. The firm was started in 1986 from a small building in Newton Lower Falls, Massachusetts.\n\nThe company began experimenting with four databases: ERIC, LISA, PsycLIT, and EMBASE. In 1987 the company had 12 databases and revenues of approximately $6m. Competing with CD Plus (now Ovid Technologies), Aries, Cambridge Scientific Abstracts and Dialog, the company offered libraries a wide range of CD-ROMs. Over the next few year the company expanded from its academic base into medical, business and health and safety CD publishing.\n\nIn 1989 the firm launched MultiPlatter, a system for networking CD-ROMs across local area network. In 1991, it introduced searching the data held at the company's site by ERL (the electronic reference library), a system for providing hard disk access to its databases via the DXP protocol. This last proved successful with more than 500 sites using the firm's technology by 1997. In that year the company had grown to $75m in revenues and had over 250 databases.\n\nIn 2001, SilverPlatter was sold to Wolters Kluwer at a reputed price of $113m, and now forms part of Ovid Technologies, the Wolters Kluwer subsidiary.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34971427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34971427", "title": "Starfish Country Home School Foundation", "text": "Starfish Country Home School Foundation\n\nThe Starfish Country Home School Foundation was registered as a non-profit organization in Thailand in March 2005. The foundation’s principal offices are located outside the Mae Taeng District, about 45 km (27 miles) north of Chiang Mai Province in northern Thailand.\n\nThe use of Starfish in the name of the Starfish Country Home School Foundation originates from the famous parable of Loren Eisley, The Star Thrower. That story reflects the philosophy of the Starfish Country Home School Foundation of trying to give significant assistance to a relatively small number of beneficiaries so as to have a large impact on their lives.\n\nThe Starfish Country Home School Foundation is not affiliated with any religious or political organization.\n\nIn April 2005 the Starfish Country Home School Foundation completed purchase of the site of a former resort on the Ping River and remodeled this for use as a home and free bilingual school for needy hill tribe children. The Starfish Country Home School (Creativity Center) opened in June 2005 with 10 students. It was registered with the Thailand Education Ministry as a kindergarten (anubaan) in 2006 and as a primary school (prathom) in 2008. Teaching is in a combination of English and Thai plus the hill tribe languages.\nIn May 2016 the Starfish Country Home School had 97 resident children, almost all of whom are either Hmong or Lisu, and 69 Thai day students. The school has two kindergarten classes and six primary school classes. The school uses a curriculum that it calls Thaiglish to teach English. Thaiglish is a picture-based curriculum that uses a combination of Thai and English script to more accurately represent the sound of American English words. The school has also developed its own curriculum for teaching mathematics. Most of the primary school students at the Starfish Country Home School study Western ballet, jazz and Thai classical dancing.\n\nThe five grade six graduating at the Starfish Country Home School in Maetaeng have had higher average scores on Thailand’s ONET-6 final examinations than all 120! schools in the city of Chiangmai.\n\nIn May 2006 the Starfish Country Home School Foundation purchased a new 80-room apartment house in the city of Chiangmai and remodeled it for use as a residence and daycare facility for needy or abused hill tribe children. In May 2016 the Starfish Home had 110 resident children and a free daycare program for 37 additional children aged three to six. \n\nIn May 2014 the Starfish Country Home School Foundation opened the Chiangmai Starfish Learning Center at a site adjacent to the Starfish Home in the city of Chiangmai. In May 2016 that program had 120 preschool students. The Chiangmai Starfish Learning Center uses the same preschool curricula as the Starfish Country Home School in Maetaeng.\n\nIn May 2005, the Starfish Country Home School Foundation also started the Wildflower Home, a residential and training program for pregnant girls and single mothers. That program relocated to the Starfish Home Chiangmai in May 2006 and has since become an independent Thai foundation.\n\nIn May 2008, the Starfish Country Home School Foundation opened the Starfish Home Chiangrai. The Starfish Country Home School Foundation built a new residence for the Starfish Home Chiangrai that opened in May 2010. In May 2016 there were 31 hill tribe girls living at that site. An Akha woman lawyer in Starfish Home Chiangrai provides free legal aid for hill tribe people.\n\nMost of the resident children at the two Starfish Homes come from broken families with no father and often no mother present. About 20% of the residents have one or both parents in prison.\nStarfish Homes are not orphanages and children regularly visit their families whenever possible. Parents are invited to visit the Boarding schools.\n\nThe Starfish Country Home School Foundation so far has awarded more than 300 three- or four-year scholarships to needy but talented students in northern Thailand who have finished either grade three or grade six so they can continue to attend a school near their homes.\n\nSince July 2007, the Starfish Country Home School Foundation has funded the complete cost of a program for basic education of inmates at the Chiangmai Women’s Prison. It also supports the costs of a room for babies of inmates within the prison. Additionally, the Starfish Country Home School Foundation provides scholarships for the children of women prisoners.\n\n"}
{"id": "40207932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40207932", "title": "Thanaweya Amma", "text": "Thanaweya Amma\n\nThanaweya Amma (Arabic: ثانوية عامة ) is series of standardized tests in Egypt that lead to the General Secondary Education Certificate for public secondary schools and serves as the entrance examination for Egyptian public universities.\n\n\"Thanaweya Amma\" means 'General Secondary' in Modern Standard Arabic. In the context of Egypt's education system, it refers to the general (as opposed to technical or vocational) secondary education track, the completion exams at the end of the track, and the diploma a student earns by passing the exams. This article is about the exams.\n\nAt the end of the final year of secondary school, students sit for comprehensive examinations for each of the 5 core subjects they took that year. The content of the exams and their relative weight in scoring depends on the students' curricular concentration, either literature, science, or science/mathematics. These scores are turned into a composite and ranked within each track. The top scores are published online.\n\n\"Thanaweya Amma\" is one of several examinations that public school students take that serves a dual purpose of completion certificate and entrance examination, determining what education pathways students will follow. Students at the end of primary school sit for the \"qabuul\" examination, which determines their admittance into general preparatory school. At the end of preparatory school, students sit for the \"Adaadiya Amma\" (General Preparatory) examination which serves as the completion certificate for preparatory school. High scores admit students to the General Secondary track, while low scores will track students to technical or vocational secondary school. More students enroll in technical school than general secondary school; in 2005/6 approximately 38.7% of secondary students were in the general secondary track. The \"Thanaweya Amma\" examination is taken by students who have completed the General Secondary track; students who are tracked into vocational or technical schools do not sit for the exam and have little chance of attending university.\n\n\"Thanaweya Amma\" can also be taken by private school students in national curriculum schools accredited by the Ministry of Education. Additionally, private language schools can teach students the national curriculum but with certain core subjects taught in languages other than Arabic. The Ministry of Education has translated the exams to accommodate.\n\n\"Thanaweya Amma\" has historically tested acquired knowledge, though reforms beginning in the 1990s introduced aptitude assessment as well.\n\nThe admissions process to Egyptian public universities is managed by the Coordination Office of the Ministry of Higher Education (usually referred to as \"Tansiq\"). Each year, the office publishes a list of colleges and institutes and the minimum test scores required for each. Students who have completed their exam submit their preferences and the Coordination Office places them in a program.\n\nFor 2012, the most demanding programs in terms of \"Thanaweya Amma\" scores were:\n\nFor 2012, the least demanding programs in terms of \"Thanaweya Amma\" scores were:\n\nEleanor Hargreaves argues that the \"Thanaweya Amma\" draws on assessment traditions grounded in the introduction of European education in Egypt through colonial structures. During 19th and first half of the 20th centuries, assessment served the function of selecting elites for military or civil service. The earliest predecessor to the exam dates back to the French occupation of Egypt from 1798 to 1801, during which the French initiated an assessment system to screen for elite candidates for military college. After the end of the occupation, Mohammed Ali assumed power and undertook large-scale efforts to modernize the Egyptian state, including expanding the education system. Subsequent reforms set up a Baccalaureate system in which elite Mamluks attended secondary school and sat for exams to attend higher education and gain admittance to Egypt's military or civil service.\n\nDuring the British occupation from 1882 to 1952, the assessment system continued to serve this function. This period saw the advent of elementary schools which, though exclusive and fee-based, helped prepare students for secondary school. Because the overall function of the education system was still to train elite Egyptians for service in British colonial bureaucracy, the number of positions available upon completion were limited. Thus, a primary school assessment system was implemented to screen for elite candidates to compete for bureaucratic positions in secondary school. Primary school enrollment remained low.\n\nThe 1952 Revolution and the eventual ascension of Gamal Abdel Nasser to the presidency marked a significant change in the function of education in Egypt, as it was transformed from a system of recruiting and training elites, to a system of instilling national unity and promoting national development. Enrollment rates exploded as primary school was made mandatory in 1953.\n\nThe Nasser government's changes to the education system created the \"Thanaweya Amma\" exam in its modern form. Education was Arabized and standardized, and with abolition of most private schools, became almost entirely under the purview of the state. Testing itself became a point of national unity – students around the country sat for the same exams at the same time.\n\nThe great importance placed on the \"Thanawey Amma\" sprung not only from changes to the test itself, but also the way the new government recast education's role in Egyptian society. On a rhetorical level, education was exalted as a means of national development; it was enshrined as a citizen's right and played a key role in Arab nationalist discourse. Thus, achievement in education, and in turn, achievement on assessments, increasingly became a means of social mobility for low and middle class Egyptians historically excluded from the system.\n\nThe new rhetorical appeal of education was augmented by specific policies which made social mobility through education more feasible for many Egyptians. The 1952 Revolution led to the expulsion or exclusion of the historical class of elite or foreign civil servants, opening many government positions previously accessed only class privilege. Thus, formal assessment (at least ostensibly) became the primary means of achieving government posts.\n\nMoreover, in 1957, the Egyptian Parliament extended free public school education all the way through the university level (primary education had been free since 1930; and secondary education had been free since 1950), meaning that any student who passed the Thanaweya Amma exam would be granted a spot in a public university. Then, beginning in 1961-2, the government began extending public sector employment guarantees to graduates of public tertiary institutions, beginning with universities, and then extending to vocation secondary and technical institutes in 1946 (under Law 14) and finally all military conscripts under Law 85 of 1973.\n\nThus, the \"Thanaweya Amma\" test became a crucial step for many Egyptians to access what became government entitlements (university education and subsequent employment). Its importance was compounded by the fact that social mobility depended in part on a student's score on the exam. Hargreaves argues that because education was structured as a means of national development, and not necessarily personal economic or social gain, students were allocated to universities based on the government's needs. The government used \"Thanaweya Amma\" scores as a means of students who would attend elite programs versus those who would attend less prestigious institutions. Thus, students generally enrolled in the programs for which their scores qualified them.\n\nEducation during the Sadat and Mubarak eras was marked by a number of government policies to incrementally scale back the entitlements extended during Nasser era.\n\nThe government's gradual repeal of the employment guarantee, through extending the wait period for government employment after university graduation, decreased the employment prospects for public school students. Throughout the course of the 1980s, the wait period was extended from two years to five years. By the time it guarantee was completely abolished in the 1990s the wait period has reached 13 years. In tandem with this policy (and in fact, extending all the way back to Sadat's Infitah), the government encouraged the private sector to drive employment growth.\n\nWhile this change would have ostensibly decreased the stakes of the \"Thanaweya Amma\" test, it should be noted that Sadat's education policies also encouraged the growth of private, fee-based education; these policies continued through the Mubarak era, especially in the late 1980s under Education Minister Fathi Sorour. As a result, those with means migrated to a parallel private school system which became the feeder for private sector labor, while success in public school and on the Thanaweya Amma remained the incredibly important for the social mobility of those from lower classes.\n\nA second policy was to decrease the percentage of students in the General Secondary track, and therefore the number of students sitting for the \"Thanaweya Amma\" exam. Throughout the 1980s, the government expand secondary technical education such that by the end of the decade, the percentage of technical secondary students outnumbered those in general secondary. This continues to be the case today. Thus, students are tracked away from university earlier, at the end of primary school.\n\nSecuring the contents of the exam becomes an issue each year.\nHargreaves argues that the structure and importance of the \"Thanaweya Amma\" exam results in what Ronald Dore called the ‘Diploma Disease,’ in which ‘selection for higher education and employment become the driving force behind schools.’ She argues that classrooms in Egypt become oriented around examination and memorization from the earliest levels. During their final year of schooling, students face immense time and examination pressures. She also argues that Egypt's explosion in private tutoring has to do with the enormous importance placed on examination results.\n"}
{"id": "48099598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48099598", "title": "Universidad del Museo Social Argentino", "text": "Universidad del Museo Social Argentino\n\nThe University of Argentine Social Museum (, UMSA) is a university in Argentina. Founded on November 5, 1956 in the city of Buenos Aires, it consists of 5 departments: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "49733681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49733681", "title": "Women in music education", "text": "Women in music education\n\nWomen in music education describes the role of women musicians, conductors, teachers and educational administrators in music education at the elementary school and secondary education levels. While music critics argued in the 1880s that \"...women lacked the innate creativity to compose good music\" due to \"biological predisposition\", later, it was accepted that women would have a role in music education, and they became involved in this field \"...to such a degree that women dominated music education during the later half of the 19th century and well into the 20th century.\" \"Traditional accounts of the history of music education [in the US] have often neglected the contributions of women, because these texts have emphasized bands and the top leaders in hierarchical music organizations.\" When looking beyond these bandleaders and top leaders, women had many music education roles in the \"...home, community, churches, public schools, and teacher-training institutions\" and \"...as writers, patrons, and through their volunteer work in organizations.\"\n\nDespite the limitations imposed on women's roles in music education in the 19th century, women were accepted as kindergarten teachers, because this was deemed to be a \"private sphere\". Women also taught music privately, in girl's schools, Sunday schools, and they trained musicians in school music programs. By the turn of the 20th century, women began to be employed as music supervisors in elementary schools, teachers in normal schools and professors of music in universities. Women also became more active in professional organizations in music education, and women presented papers at conferences.\n\nA woman, Frances Clarke (1860–1958) founded the Music Supervisors National Conference in 1907. While a small number of women served as President of the Music Supervisors National Conference (and the following renamed versions of the organization over the next century) in the early 20th century, there were only two female Presidents between 1952 and 1992, which \"[p]ossibly reflects discrimination.\" After 1990, however, leadership roles for women in the organization opened up. From 1990 to 2010, there were five female Presidents of this organization. Women music educators \"outnumber men two-to-one\" in teaching general music, choir, private lessons, and keyboard instruction. More men tend to be hired as for band education, administration and jazz jobs, and more men work in colleges and universities. According to Dr. Sandra Wieland Howe, there is still a \"glass ceiling\" for women in music education careers, as there is \"stigma\" associated with women in leadership positions and \"men outnumber women as administrators.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "22393609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22393609", "title": "Young Social Innovators", "text": "Young Social Innovators\n\nYoung Social Innovators (YSI) is Ireland's largest social awareness and active citizenship and education programme for 15- to 18-year-old teens. Its main goal is to get young people (15-18yrs) involved in action which helps improve the lives of others in their community. YSI involves thousands of young people in Ireland each year in hundreds of projects and social enterprises which are youth-led, team-based and action-focused. Each year, each YSI team is invited to present their project at the YSI Speak Out Regional fora. A national Showcase of Young Social Innovators takes place in May each year where thousands of young social innovators come together and showcase their projects. \nSet up by Rachel Collier and Stansilaus Kennedy in 2001\n\nYoung people come up with and develop ideas to change the world for good. They work in a team, decide what they want to do and how they can respond in new ways to problems of importance to them.\nYSI has a well tested social innovation education framework which is in brief: CARE, CO-OPERATE, CHANGE AND COMMUNICATE! An effective way to work on any social innovation. \nYSI believes that the more you practice social innovation, the better you are at it! Once you make a difference by doing a YSI project, you can put your skills to action and take on many other social issues. \nYoung Social Innovators is based on human rights.\n\nThe YSI framework can be used on youthled projects concerned with any social issue! Projects on topics such as the following have been done -\nOne world\nHealth and Well being\nOur Community\nMental health\n\n"}
