{"id": "18595052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18595052", "title": "Afro-Bolivian", "text": "Afro-Bolivian\n\nAfro-Bolivians are Bolivian people of Sub-Saharan African heritage and therefore the descriptive \"Afro-Bolivian\" may refer to historical or cultural elements in Bolivia thought to emanate from their community. It can also refer to the combining of African and other cultural elements found in Bolivian society such as religion, music, language, the arts, and class culture. The Afro-Bolivians are recognized as one of the constituent ethnic groups of Bolivia by the country's government, and are ceremonially led by a king who traces his descent back to a line of monarchs that reigned in Africa during the medieval period.\n\nIn 1544, the Spanish Conquistadors discovered the silver mines in a city now called Potosí, which is on the base of Cerro Rico (Rich Mountain) in Bolivia. Almost immediately, they began enslaving the natives as workers in the mines. However, the health of the natives working in the mines became very poor, which is why the Spanish began to look towards a new group for labor. By the beginning of the seventeenth century, the Spanish mine owners and barons began bringing in African slaves in high numbers to help work the mines with the natives who were still able. \n\nSlaves were put to work in difficult conditions. Some slaves working in the mines survived no more than a few months. Initially, the slaves were not used to working at such a high altitude. Many of these Native and African workers' lives were cut short because of the toxic smelter fumes and mercury vapors they inhaled while working the mines. Slaves worked in the mines for 4 months on average. As such they had to be blindfolded upon leaving the mines to protect their eyes, which had become adapted to darkness.\n\nAlthough it was a requirement for Natives and Africans over 18 years of age to work in the mines for 12-hour shifts, younger children were still reputed to be put to work in the mines. These children worked fewer hours; however, they were still exposed to the same extremely harsh conditions of all the miners, including asbestos, toxic gases, cave-ins, and explosions. It is estimated that as many as eight million Africans and Natives died from working the mines between 1545, when the Spaniards first put the Natives to work, until 1825, the end of the colonial period.\n\nThe Spaniards' way of fortifying the slaves against the harsh conditions in the mines was to provide them with coca leaves to chew. Coca, a very important element of Bolivian culture, is an agricultural product consumed in Bolivia that can also be processed into cocaine. By chewing coca leaves, the slaves numbed their senses to the cold, as well as dampening the feeling of hunger and alleviating altitude sickness.\n\nAfter their emancipation in the 19th century, Afro-Bolivians would relocate to a place called the Yungas. The Yungas, which is not far north from the city of La Paz, is where most of the country’s coca is grown. In parts of the Yungas such as Coroico, Mururata, Chicaloma, Calacala-Coscoma, and Irupana are a large number of Bolivians of African heritage. Before the Bolivians relocated to the Yungas, it was a place mostly inhabited by indigenous Aymara people and mestizos (European and Native mixed people). It is believed that the Natives thought that darker skin was more attractive, which is why they were impressed with the skin of the Africans when they first began arriving to Bolivia. For this reason, it is no surprise that many of the Afro-Bolivians would intermarry with the Aymara, adopt many of their cultural elements such as their style of dressing, and even become an Aymaran speaking subculture.\n\nAlthough these Afro-Bolivians were free, they still had a difficult battle in trying to maintain their culture. Many elements of their culture began to disappear, such as their feast, language, and spiritual sense to name a few. They had to fight very strongly against the colonial aggression and exclusion of their post-emancipation culture. One of the ways that they were able to hold on to this culture was through their music and dance. \n\nThe biggest African influence in Bolivian culture is Saya music or La Saya. Saya, which is growing in popularity in Bolivia, is still very misunderstood. The reason for this lack of understanding of saya is because the interpretation of the instruments as well as the rhythm is very peculiar. It involves Andean instruments incorporated with African percussion. The primary instrument is the drum, which was passed on by their African ancestors, along with gourds, shakers, and even jingles bells that are attached to their clothing on the ankle area.\n\nDuring the performance of saya, the Afro-Bolivians wear Aymara style clothing. The women wear a bright multi-colored blouse with ribbons, a multi-colored skirt called a “pollera”, with a “manta” (back cover) in their hand, and a bowler hat. The men on the other hand, wear a hat, feast shirt, an Aymara style sash around the waist, woolen thick cloth pants called “bayeta pants”, and sandals.\n\nEvery rhythm of Saya begins with the beating of a jingle bell by the Caporal (foreman) who guides the dance. This Caporal (also called capataz) guides the dancers with a cudgel (whip) in hand, decorated pants, and jingle bells near the ankles. The women, who have their own guide during this dance, sing while moving their hips, shaking their hands, as well as dialoguing with the men who play the bass drum and coancha.\n\nEven though Bolivia had the richest silver mine in the world in the 17th century, it is currently the 2nd poorest country in South America. Most Bolivians live in rural areas, are unable to acquire basic needs, and depend on farming for their survival. In fact, it was reported at Bolivia’s national referendum in 2004, that Afro-Bolivians (as well as the indigenous people) face discrimination, disadvantages in health, life expectancy, education, income, literacy, and work under brutal conditions. \n\nIt has been estimated that 25,000 Afro-Bolivians live in the Yungas. They are proud of their culture and have fought very hard to preserve it. In fact, in the town of Mururata, the Afro-Bolivians managed to maintain their traditional culture, to the point of maintaining a continuous Afro-Bolivian monarchy currently led by Julio Pinedo. Afro-Bolivians spread to the east in Cochabamba and Santa Cruz de la Sierra. In Santa Cruz there are more Afro-Brazilians than Afro-Bolivians. They are trying to put together African culture classes for the young people, in an attempt to maintain their African culture. \n\nDespite the Afro-Bolivian community fervently working to preserve their culture, many Afro-Bolivians have reported experiencing severe racism and feelings of isolation from society due to intolerance. Laws that actually criminalize racism and discrimination in Afro-Bolivia have slowly been ratified as the first anti-discriminatory law (law 45) was passed in 2010 and was met with violent protesting and rioting. In 2009 President Evo Morales added amendments to the national constitution that outlined the rights of Afro-Bolivians and guaranteed the protection of such liberties. The amendments also generally extended to indigenous peoples and officially recognized Afro-Bolivians as a minority group in Bolivia despite them not being included in the national census three years later. In addition to the country's constitution being updated in 2009, President Morales created the Vice Ministry for Decolonization to create policies that criminalize racism while working to improve literacy and create better race relations in Bolivia.The Vice Ministry for Decolonization also works to dismantle colorism and racism influenced by European colonization while also promoting the philosophy of \"intercultural-ity\" in which citizens of the nation recognize every ethnic groups' traditions and cultural practices as contributions to society.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2112710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2112710", "title": "Anarchism and Islam", "text": "Anarchism and Islam\n\nIslamic anarchism is based on an interpretation of Islam as \"submission to God\" which either prohibits or is highly critical of the role of human authority.\n\nThroughout Islamic history there have been Muslim groups, movements, and individuals which could be described as anti-authoritarian, anti-capitalist, egalitarian, or opposed to the rule of specific governments. Among these, only a few are properly associated with the anarchist label.\n\nAn early example of anti-authoritarianism in Islam is the movement of the Khawarij, which dates back to the time of the split between Sunni and Shi'i Islam. The Shia claimed Ali and his descendants (the Ahl al-Bayt) were the rightful successors of Muhammad. The Sunnis believed (at least initially) that the leader of all the Muslims had to be from the Quraysh tribe but could be chosen by the Muslim community. Sunnis also tended to be conservative; as long as certain minimal functions were being carried out, it was wrong to rebel against the lawful Muslim ruler, even when they were being sinful.\n\nThe Khawarij initially supported the leadership of Ali, but turned against him when they disagreed with some of his decisions. They claimed that any qualified Muslim could be the Imam, the community's spiritual and religious leader. They were also more willing to rebel against Muslim rulers.\n\nAt least one sect of Kharajites, the Najdiyya, believed that if no suitable imam was present in the community, then the position could be dispensed with. The Nukkari, a subsect of the Ibadiyya, reportedly adopted a similar belief.\n\nA strand of Muʿtazili thought paralleled that of the Najdiyya: if rulers inevitably became tyrants, then the only acceptable course of action was to depose them.\n\nSheikh Bedreddin (1359–1420) () was a proto-Socialist revolutionary Sufi theologian and charismatic preacher who led a rebellion against the Ottoman Empire in 1416. His full name was Şeyh Bedrettin Mahmud Bin İsrail Bin Abdülaziz.\n\nHis writings were condemned by a number of Ottoman religious scholars such as İsmail Hakkı Bursevi. Others instead praise him. He is a popular figure among Turkey's left. Nâzım Hikmet was jailed for inciting rebellion after encouraging military cadets to read Bedreddin's work. The musicians Cem Karaca and O. Z. Livaneli composed a song based on Hikmet's epic poem, the \"Şeyh Bedrettin Destanı\". In Hikmet's work, Bedreddin and his companions emphasize that all things must be shared \"except the lips of the beloved.\"\n\nSheikh Bedrettin's proto-socialist ideas emphasised direct action, direct democracy, international and interfaith human solidarity, equality and communal life. He is highly respected among the Turkish anarchists.\n\nAn important and influential figure in the 20th century was Ali Shariati, who was considered the principal theoretician and leader of the popular movement that ultimately culminated in the mass uprisings that led to the Iranian Revolution and the overthrow and dissolution of the Pahlavi Iran on 11 February 1979.\n\nFrom the 1950s and on, Shariati was continually persecuted and often imprisoned in solitary confinement by the Imperial authorities with the support of the mainline Shi'a clergy who feared that Shariati was poised to become a national leader in the same vein as Mohammad Mosaddegh. Shariati's anticlerical and populist interpretation of Twelver Shi'i Islam was strongly influenced by the nationalist republican historian and philosopher, Ahmad Kasravi, who had advocated a secular reformist interpretation of Islam, intertwined with a detailed study of the history of the Iranian peoples.\n\nHowever, while Kasravi was a conservative nationalist, Shariati was on the opposite end of the spectrum, embracing both the far left and radical traditionalists. Shariati was one of the very few national figures who was popular and respected across the diverse ethnolinguistic spectrum of Iran, as loved by the Sunni Kurds and Baloch people as he was by the Shia.\n\nThe continuous persecution of Shariati by both the Imperial State and the followers of Ruhollah Khomeini began to take its toll on his health. After his last incarceration, having spent eighteen months in solitary, Shariati spent the next three years under close surveillance and his freedom of movement highly restricted under virtual house arrest. On 20 March 1975, under the stipulation that he remain in exile permanently, Shariati was granted permission to leave Iran for the United Kingdom. Three weeks after his arrival in London, Shariati suffered a heart attack and shortly thereafter died.\n\nAlthough Shariati was not an anarchist, his vision of Islam was highly influenced by the Third-Worldism that he encountered as a student in Paris — ideas that class war and revolution would bring about a just and classless society — from one side, and the Islamic fundamentalist movements of his time from the other side. He is said to have adopted the idea of \"Gharbzadegi\" from Jalal Al-e-Ahmad and given it \"its most vibrant and influential second life.\" was that of a religion based upon the values of social justice, women's rights, minority rights, land reform for farmers and agrarians, advocacy for the poor and indigent, as well as a direct democracy that would allow for self-governance instead of having to rely on career politicians and elected representatives. He believed that the only true reflection of the Islamic concept of Tawhid (unity and oneness of God) is a classless society.\n\nRelated movements\n\nRelevant individuals\n\nSocial groups/places\n\nRelated concepts\n\nOther religious anarchisms\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36835425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36835425", "title": "Aztec creator gods", "text": "Aztec creator gods\n\nIn Aztec mythology, the Creator-Gods are the only four sons of the creator couple Ometecuhtli and Omecihuatl \"Lord and Lady of Duality\", \"Lord and Lady of the Near and the Close\", \"Father and Mother of the Gods\", \"Father and Mother of us all\", who received the gift of the creation to create other living beings without childbearing, they are residing atop a mythical thirteenth heaven Ilhuicatl-Omeyocan \"the place of duality\".\n\nEach of the four sons takes a turn as Sun, these suns are the sun of earth, the sun of air, the sun of fire, the sun of water (Tlaloc, rain god replaces Xipe-Totec). Each world is destroyed. The present era, the Fifth Sun is ushered in when a lowly god, Nanahuatzin sacrifices himself in fire and becomes Tonatiuh, the Fifth Sun. In his new position of power he refuses to go into motion until the gods make sacrifice to him. In an elaborate ceremony, Quetzalcoatl cuts the hearts out of each of the gods and offers it to Tonatiuh (and the moon Meztli). All of this occurs in the ancient and sacred, pre-Aztec city of Teotihuacan. It is predicted that eventually, like the previous epochs, this one will come to a cataclysmic end.\n\n\nTezcatlipoca was generally represented with a stripe of black paint across his face and an obsidian mirror in place of one of his feet. The post-Classic (after ad 900) Maya-Quiche people of Guatemala revered him as a lightning god under the name Hurakan (\"One Foot\"). Other representations show Tezcatlipoca with his mirror on his chest. In it he saw everything; invisible and omnipresent, he knew all the deeds and thoughts of humans.\n\nBy Aztec times (14th–16th century ad), Tezcatlipoca's manifold attributes and functions had brought him to the summit of the divine hierarchy, where he ruled together with Huitzilopochtli, Tlaloc, and Quetzalcoatl. Called Yoalli Ehecatl (\"Night Wind\"), Yaotl (\"Warrior\"), and Telpochtli (\"Young Man\"), he was said to appear at crossroads at night to challenge warriors. He presided over the telpochcalli (\"young men's houses\"), district schools in which the sons of the common people received an elementary education and military training. He was the protector of slaves and severely punished masters who ill-treated \"Tezcatlipoca's beloved children\". He rewarded virtue by bestowing riches and fame, and he chastised wrongdoers by sending them sickness (as leprosy) or by reducing them to poverty and slavery. The main rite of Tezcatlipoca's cult took place during Toxcatl, the fifth ritual month. Every year at that time the priest selected a young and handsome war prisoner. For one year he lived in princely luxury, impersonating the god. Four beautiful girls dressed as goddesses were chosen as his companions. On the appointed feast day, he climbed the steps of a small temple while breaking flutes that he had played. At the top he was sacrificed by the removal of his heart.\n\nRepresentations of Xipe-Totec first appeared at Xollalpan, near Teotihuacan, and at Texcoco, in connection with the Mazapan culture—that is, during the post-Classic Toltec phase (9th–12th century ad). The Aztecs adopted his cult during the reign of Axayacatl (1469–81). During Tlacaxipehualiztli (\"Flaying of Men\"), the second ritual month of the Aztec year, the priests killed human victims by removing their hearts. They flayed the bodies and put on the skins, which were dyed yellow and called teocuitlaquemitl (\"golden clothes\"). Other victims were fastened to a frame and put to death with arrows; their blood dripping down was believed to symbolize the fertile spring rains. A hymn sung in honour of Xipe-Totec called him Yoalli Tlauana (\"Night Drinker\") because beneficent rains fell during the night; it thanked him for bringing the Feathered Serpent, who was the symbol of plenty, and for averting drought.\n\nOne important body of myths describes Quetzalcoatl as the priest-king of Tula, the capital of the Toltecs. He never offered human victims, only snakes, birds, and butterflies. But the god of the night sky, Tezcatlipoca, expelled him from Tula by performing feats of black magic. Quetzalcoatl wandered down to the coast of the \"divine water\" (the Atlantic Ocean) and then immolated himself on a pyre, emerging as the planet Venus. According to another version, he embarked upon a raft made of snakes and disappeared beyond the eastern horizon. The legend of the victory of Tezcatlipoca over the Feathered Serpent probably reflects historical fact. The first century of the Toltec civilization was dominated by the Teotihuacan culture, with its inspired ideals of priestly rule and peaceful behaviour. The pressure of the northern immigrants brought about a social and religious revolution, with a military ruling class seizing power from the priests. Quetzalcoatl's defeat symbolized the downfall of the Classic theocracy. His sea voyage to the east should probably be connected with the invasion of Yucatán by the Itza, a tribe that showed strong Toltec features. Quetzalcoatl's calendar name was Ce Acatl (One Reed). As the god of learning, of writing, and of books, Quetzalcoatl was particularly venerated in the calmecac, religious colleges annexed to the temples, in which the future priests and the sons of the nobility were educated. Outside of Tenochtitlan, the main centre of Quetzalcoatl's cult was Cholula, on the Puebla plateau.\n\nRepresentations of Huitzilopochtli usually show him as a hummingbird or as a warrior with armour and helmet made of hummingbird feathers. In a pattern similar to that found in many hummingbirds, his legs, arms, and the lower part of his face were painted one color (blue) and the upper half of his face was another (black). He wore an elaborate feathered headdress and brandished a round shield and a turquoise snake. Huitzilopochtli is presented as the deity who guided the long migration the Aztecs undertook from Aztlan, their traditional home, to the Valley of Mexico. During the journey his image, in the form of a hummingbird, was carried upon the shoulders of priests, and at night his voice was heard giving orders. The Aztecs believed that the sun god needed daily nourishment (tlaxcaltiliztli) in the form of human blood and hearts and that they, as people of the sun, were required to provide Huitzilopochtli with his sustenance.\n\nThe legend of Huitzilopochtli is recorded in the Mexicayotl Chronicle. His sister, Coyolxauhqui, tried to kill their mother because she became pregnant in a shameful way (by a ball of feathers). Her offspring, Huitzilopochtli, learned of this plan while still in the womb, and before it was put into action, sprang from his mother's womb fully grown and fully armed. He then killed his sister Coyolxauhqui and many of his 400 brothers. He tossed his sister's head into the sky, where it became the moon, so that his mother would be comforted in seeing her daughter in the sky every night. He threw his other brothers and sisters into the sky, where they became the stars. For the reconsecration of Great Pyramid of Tenochtitlan in 1487, dedicated to Tlaloc and Huitzilopochtli, the Aztecs reported that they sacrificed about 20,400 prisoners over the course of four days. While accepted by some scholars, this claim also has been considered Aztec propaganda. There were 19 altars in the city of Tenochtitlan.\n\n"}
{"id": "5426518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5426518", "title": "Bamileke languages", "text": "Bamileke languages\n\nThe Bamileke languages are a group of Eastern Grassfields languages spoken by the Bamileke people in the Western grassfields of Cameroon.\n\nThe languages, which might constitute two branches of Eastern Grassfields, are:\n\n"}
{"id": "32485439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32485439", "title": "Bibliodiversity", "text": "Bibliodiversity\n\nBibliodiversity is the cultural diversity applied to the writing and publishing world. Probably born in Latin America, the concept spread broadly in the Spanish and French world during the 1990s. Now used frequently by independent publishers, authors and NGOs defending and promoting the cultural diversity, “Bibliodiversity” is also an academic journal. The day of 21 September was declared by independent publishers “the Bibliodiversity Day”.\n\nExactly who first coined the term \"\" remains unclear. Yet it seems beyond doubt that the word was used in Spanish first of all. Authorship has been claimed by a group of Chilean publishers who say they used it when founding the Editores independientes de Chile collective in the late 1990s. Publisher RIL Editores (www.rileditores.com) supposedly played a key role in coining the term. This claim to paternity has sometimes been disputed by Spanish publishers, however – in particular by some members of the Madrid group “Bibliodiversidad”, who claim the term as their own creation. To date neither of these two hypotheses has been supported by any printed documentation clearly authenticated by publication date.\n\nIn 1999, the directors of “Bibliothèque Interculturelle pour le Futur” (‘intercultural library for the future’) – a programme established by the Charles Léopold Mayer Foundation. and led by Michel Sauquet and Étienne Galliand – co-organised a meeting at Gijón in Spain. This is when they encountered the term, in Spanish, for the first time.\n\nMay 2002 saw the creation of the International Alliance of Independent Publishers, and the word was used by the organisation’s founders.\n\nFrom this point onwards the International Alliance of Independent Publishers has made a major contribution to disseminating and promoting this term in various languages, especially at its international meetings (sources available for consultation: the Declarations from Dakar in 2003, Guadalajara in 2005 and Paris in 2007) and in all its communications. The publishers’ alliance has helped the term become internationally accepted and to spread rapidly within the French-speaking world. The term \"bibliodiversity\" spreads in the English-speaking world.\n\nEchoing the concept of biodiversity, “bibliodiversity” refers to the need for a variety of publications to be available to readers within a given environment. Françoise Benhamou, a French specialist of economics of the arts and literature, gave this explanation in her speech at the Assises Internationales de l'Édition Indépendante (International Assembly on Independent Publishing): “In biodiversity, variety refers very simply to the number of species; in the book world, this would be the number of titles. Yet it is clearly insufficient to leave matters there. I will return to this point later. The second factor highlighted by the concept of biodiversity is balance, the balance between the species. If we look at what that means in biodiversity we see the extremely simple idea that if you have several species but some are present in huge numbers while others are very scarce, the ones with many units are likely to eat or prevail over the others. This is what is happening in the book world where it is a matter for concern that the dominance of blockbusters on supermarket shelves and above all in bookstore displays is pushing out other offerings which are more difficult to promote.”\n\nToday bibliodiversity is under threat from overproduction and from financial concentration in the publishing world, which favours the predominance of a few large publishing groups and the pursuit of large profit margins. Increasing emphasis on profitability exacerbates the temptation to reshape editorial policy accordingly. In order to guarantee margins acceptable to shareholders who may be very distant from the publishing house (both physically and culturally), production is recalibrated to enhance its commercial potential. In some cases the result is a huge imbalance, with commercial logic vastly prevailing over intellectual adventurousness: here, the publisher unreservedly espouses demand-based economics to the detriment of its role of stimulating and purveying new ideas (offering texts which may be challenging, original, non-standard). At the far extreme of the concept of biodiversity, therefore, we find what we might call the “bestsellerisation” of the publishing sphere.\n\nGiven the increasing concentration of the publishing world, with its associated emphasis on profit and its trend towards bestsellerisation, independent publishers fulfil more than ever a role that has been abandoned in some cases by the “corporate” giants. This makes them the key players in bibliodiversity terms: they are genuine discoverers of talents, they are cultural risk-takers, they facilitate the existence and dissemination of the authors and texts of the future. This socially important role is clearly acknowledged by the major publishing groups – who frequently cherry-pick for themselves those authors who begin to gain public recognition.\n\nRecognising the fundamental right to defend and promote their cultural sectors – in the face of a generalised deregulation which might at times appear to be the WTO’s desired aim – in late 2005 UNESCO’s member states signed the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions. Concrete measures could now be taken to protect bibliodiversity – cultural diversity in the book world.\n\nWhile there seems to be some progress on the protection of “local” cultural production, with governments seeking to create an enabling environment for the development of their cultural industries and decision-makers potentially empowered to act, it is becoming a matter of urgency to achieve some way of assessing via a set of indicators, via quantitative and qualitative data.\n\nMoreover, the digital revolution currently transforming the entire book world – from the creation of texts through to their marketing – could have significant impacts in terms of bibliodiversity. The dematerialisation of the book, the possibility of virtual communications with a much larger group of contacts / readers / buyers (via e-marketing, for example) might suggest that independent publishers and publishers in emerging markets have the potential to raise their profile. On the other hand, the capturing of this emerging marketplace (as yet unproven in economic terms) by new players – online sales platforms, designers and manufacturers of IT equipment (readers in particular), etc. – suggests that the publication production system will reconfigure without promoting greater bibliodiversity at the same time.\n\nVarious international organisations such as UNESCO and the Latin Union, various cultural and publishing stakeholders such as the Association Internationale des Libraires Francophones (international association of French-speaking booksellers), the Alliance des Éditeurs Indépendants (Alliance of Independent Publishers) and various national publisher associations (AEMI in Mexico, EDIN in Chile, EDINAR in Argentina, FIDARE in Italy, LIBRE in Brazil, etc.) are promoting and protecting bibliodiversity through symposia, meetings and declarations.\n\nA reference work on bibliodiversity was published in 2006.\n\nIn 2006, following a letter addressed to the candidates in the French presidential election, the newspaper \"Le Monde\" picked up several of the concrete measures proposed to promote bibliodiversity.\n\nSome Spanish-speaking publishers from Latin America launched in 2010 \"El Dia B\" (\"the Bibliodiversity Day\", 21 September).\n\nThe European Writers' Parliament issued in November 2010 the Istambul Declaration, in which the bibliodiversity is mentioned: \"Policies\nshould be generated to prevent the standardization of expression and promote bibliodiversity\".\n\nThe first issue of an international journal entitled “Bibliodiversity”, co-published by the International Alliance of Independent Publishers and by Double Ponctuation (www.double-communication.com) appeared in January 2011 (see www.bibliodiversity.org).\n\nFrançoise Rivière, Assistant Director-General for Culture at UNESCO, in her speech opening the Assises Internationales de l'Édition Indépendante (International Assembly on Independent Publishing – Paris, July 2007): “Just as it seeks to highlight the complementary nature of the aims of biodiversity and cultural diversity on the global scene, UNESCO is also closely monitoring the issue of diversity of expression and content in the international book market. In other words, it is paying very close attention to what some people call “bibliodiversity” – a word that has become widely adopted and is beginning to enter common usage.”\n\nSégolène Royal, President of the Poitou Charentes Regional Council, 28 January 2008: “This bibliodiversity we are defending – a bibliodiversity accessible to all, open to all – underpins equal opportunities for education and access to knowledge.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23418365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23418365", "title": "Burial tree", "text": "Burial tree\n\nA burial tree or burial scaffold is a tree or simple structure used for supporting corpses or coffins. They were once common among the Balinese, the Naga people, certain Aboriginal Australians, and some North American First Nations.\n\nA number of Native Americans used a burial tree as the last resting place for a dead relative, either as the general rule (along with a scaffold) or as an alternative to a grave.\n\nThe corpse was wrapped up carefully in a robe or blankets and either placed in a fork of the tree or tied to a heavy branch. Both grown persons and small children were laid to rest in this way. A burial tree could carry more than one dead. Maximilian zu Wied saw burial trees with red painted trunk and branches among the Assiniboine Indians. It seems any tree was proper. Cottonwood is mentioned by travelers on the great plains, as well as pine and cedar. The dead could be placed from around six feet up in the tree to close to the top. Some of the belongings of the deceased were often placed near the corpse.\n\nA burial scaffold was usually made of four upright poles or branches, forked at the top. This foundation carried a sort of bier, where the dead body was laid to rest out of reach of wolves. The preferred location was on a hill. Relatives would often place some of the belongings of the dead on the platform or around the scaffold.\nThe poles reached \"a mans height above ground\" (six to eight feet). An extraordinary high scaffold carried the corpse of a Sisseton Sioux an estimated 18 feet above the ground. One scaffold described had poles painted black and red in horizontal stripes. An 1849 Nebraska traveler saw a scaffold made of lodge poles rested against each other at the top and with two biers half way down.\n\nAn Ojibwe man would get his arms and other personal effects with him on the scaffold along with food, eating utensils and tobacco. This practice may have been used only as a temporarily solution when death occurred far from the common burial ground with graves and markers. Birch bark served as an option to a body wrapping of skin among the Ojibwe.\n\nIn the 18th century, the Choctaw placed the dead on a scaffold as a first step in a burial process. Months later, bone pickers stripped the flesh from the bones. The skeleton was then cleaned and piece by piece put in a sort of small coffin and lastly placed in the Indian city's special bone house.\n\nThe personal effects of an Indian woman were laid with her in an open pine box (likely made by a carpenter) situated on a scaffold put up near Fort Laramie in 1866. The heads and tails of her two ponies were fastened to respectively the eastern and the western poles.\n\nAmong the Crow, the dead was wrapped in a robe and placed on the bier with the feet to the east. Much later, the bones could be collected and placed in a rock gap.\n\nThe Mandan Indians positioned the dead body on the scaffold with the feet to the southeast, so the spirit was directed to the old Mandan country around Heart River, North Dakota. With the scaffold rotten and on the ground, the bones were wrapped in a hide and buried in the refuse at the Mandan village or in a riverbank. The skull would be placed among other clan skulls arranged in circles on the ground near the scaffolds. Newborns, who died unnamed, were not considered members of the society and hence placed in trees (or buried) away from the common burial ground outside the village.\n\nDuring winter, the Ponca Indians would often substitute a grave with a scaffold because the ground was frozen. A Lakota summed up the reasons why a high scaffold outdid a grave, \"(1) Animals or persons might walk over the graves; (2) the dead might lie in mud and water after rain or snow; (3) wolves might dig up the bodies and devour them.\" With the dead placed on a scaffold or in a tree, the relatives could easily talk to the deceased.\n\n"}
{"id": "2694744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2694744", "title": "Chokwe people", "text": "Chokwe people\n\nThe Chokwe people, known by many other names (including Kioko, Bajokwe, Chibokwe, Kibokwe, Ciokwe, Cokwe or Badjok), are an ethnic group of Central and Southern Africa. They are found primarily in Angola, southwestern parts of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (Kinshasa to Lualaba), and northwestern parts of Zambia.\n\nEstimated to be about 1.3 million, their ancestry is likely mixed and traced to aboriginal Mbundu and Mbuti Pygmies. Their language is usually referred to as Chokwe (or Kichokwe, Tshokwe), a Bantu language in the Benue-Congo branch of Niger-Congo family of languages.\n\nMany also speak the official languages of their countries: English in Zambia, French in Democratic Republic of Congo, and Portuguese (as first or second language) in Angola.\n\nThe Chokwe were once one of the twelve clans of the great Lunda Empire of 17th- and 18th-century Angola. They were initially employed by Lunda nobles, eventually became independent when they refused to continue paying tribute to the Lunda emperor. Their successful trading and abundant resources caused them to be one of the wealthiest groups in Angola. By 1900, the Chokwe had dismantled the Lunda kingdom (also called the \"Mwata Yanvo\") altogether, using guns they had received in trade from the Ovimbundu. Chokwe language and influence then began to dominate northeastern Angola and spread among the Lunda peoples. As the wars and conflicts grew during the colonial era of the 19th and 20th centuries, both from Europeans from their west and the Swahili-Arabs from their east, they militarily responded and expanded further into northern Angola, Congo and into western Zambia.\n\nThe Portuguese had virtually no contact with the Chokwe until the 1930s when the Chokwe traded wax, rubber and ivory. The Portuguese brought an end to the dominance of the Chokwe people in the region, but the Chokwe people fought back.\n\nAs a prince, Mwene Mbandu Kapova I of Mbunda played a significant role in the battle between the Chokwe and the Mbunda.\n\nIn the 18th and 19th centuries, Chokwe people not only suffered from the consequences of slave capture and export, but themselves bought and kept slaves. The Lunda nobles of Angola employed the Chokwe people as soldiers and hunters, first to counter the violence and threats to indigenous political power brought by the colonial demand and export markets for slaves, but once the Chokwe people had the guns, training and ethnic coordination, they overthrew the Lunda and employed slaves on their own for farming and domestic work in the second half of the 19th-century and the early decades of the 20th. The slaves sourced from other ethnic groups of Africa became a prized possession sought by the Chokwe. In upper Zambezi river and Kasai regions particularly, they were once a victim of well armed Portuguese or Belgian raids from the West and Arab-Swahili raids from east (such as by Tippu Tip also known as Hamad bin Muhammad el Murjebi); later, the Chokwe people joined the violence and victimized others by capturing and shipping out a substantial number of captured slaves for financial gains, as well as purchasing and keeping slave women in their own homes from the profits of their craft work.\n\nAccording to Achim von Oppen, the use of slaves among the Chokwe people was likely a cultural reality on a small scale, before the enormous growth in slave capture and trading activity for the Atlantic colonial market. The old practice had origins in inter-village disputes particularly after injury or murder, where the victim village sought revenge or a slave in compensation for the loss. In cases of giving up a person, it would preferably be a transfer of a child as a slave from the village that caused the loss. As the demand and financial returns of slave trade to the colonial markets grew, many slaves were captured or otherwise passed through the Chokwe controlled territory. They would allow the movement of slave men to continue west towards the ports in cooperation with the Portuguese, while women were often kept. This practice continued long after slavery was banned in Europe and the United States, but the demand for workers elsewhere such as in South America, the Caribbean, Swahili-Arabs, Omani and other colonial plantations market continued, feeding a smuggled slaves market. European explorers who visited the Chokwe villages in early 20th-century reported that a majority of the women there were slaves in polygamous households and a cause of their population boom. In certain regions, like other ethnic groups and Europeans, the Chokwe people used slaves to raid their neighbors for lucrative ivory stockpiles for exports as well as to counter the raids by militarized Arab-Swahili gangs seeking ivory stockpiles and tribute payments.\n\nThe Chowke people live in woodland savanna, but are also found along rivers and marshland with strips of rainforest. In the north, the Chokwe are known as skilled hunters. In south, their livelihood has traditionally centered around cultivation of staple crops such as cassava, yams, millet, beans, peanuts and corn (maize). Pastoral activity with cattles is also a part of the southern Chokwe people's life.\n\nThey are regionally famous for their exceptional crafts work, particularly with baskets, pottery, mask carving, statues, stools and other handicrafts. The art work include utilitarian objects, but often integrates Chokwe mythologies, oral history and spiritual beliefs. For example, the culture hero \"Chibinda Ilunga\" who married a Lunda woman and took over power is an often sculpted figure. The \"Cikungu\" art personifies the collective power of Chokwe's ancestors, while \"Mwana po\" figurines depict the guardians of fertility and procreation. The \"Ngombo\" figurines have been traditionally a part of divining spirits who are shaken to tell causes of illness, misfortune, not having babies and other problems faced by a family or a village.\n\nBoth chiefs and village groups are found in the Chokwe culture. Villages consist of company compounds with square huts or circular grass-houses with a central space that serves as the meeting place for the villagers.\n\nThe Chokwe are traditionally a matrilineal society, but where the woman moves to live with her husband's family after wedding. Polygyny has been a historic practice usually limited to the chief or a wealthy family.\n\nThe traditional religious beliefs of the Chokwe center around ancestor spirits worship. In groups where chiefs exist, they are considered the representative of god Kalunga or Nzambi, therefore revered and called \"Mwanangana\" or \"overseer of the land\". The Chokwe people believe that works of arts such as handicrafts and carved objects are spiritual, connect them to their ancestors and god Kalunga or Nzambi. With the colonial era, Chowke converted to Christianity en masse yet the original beliefs were retained to produce a syncretism of beliefs and practices. They have, for example, continued their spirit-rituals from pre-Christian era, as well maintained their elaborate rites-of-passage ceremonies particularly to mark the entry into adulthood by men and women.\n\nA Chokwe statue, Chokwe body carvings, blood diamonds, and the Chokwe people figure into the plotline of Donna Leon's 14th Commissario Guido Brunetti mystery novel, \"Blood From a Stone\" (2005).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23108751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23108751", "title": "Conversion to Islam in U.S. prisons", "text": "Conversion to Islam in U.S. prisons\n\nConversion to Islam in U.S. prisons refers to the higher rate of conversion to Islam in American prisons, for which there are a number of factors. It is the fastest-growing religion in U.S. prisons (when conversions to Protestantism and Catholicism are not combined). The US prison population is 9 percent Muslim (compared to 1 percent for the general population).\n\nIn addition to immigration, the state, federal and local prisons of the United States may be a contributor to the growth of Islam in the United States. J. Michael Waller claims that Muslim inmates comprise 17–20% of the prison population in New York, or roughly 350,000 inmates in 2003. He also claims that 80% of the prisoners who \"find faith\" while in prison convert to Islam. These converted inmates are mostly African American, with a growing Hispanic minority. Waller also asserts that many converts are radicalized by outside Islamist groups linked to terrorism, but other experts suggest that when radicalization does occur, it has little to no connection with these outside interests.\n\nConcern over jailhouse conversions to Islam first rose in 2001 when Imam Warith Deen Umar, Islamic chaplain for the New York State prison system, was reported to have praised the September 11 attacks; in response members of Congress called for an investigation. In a 2004 report, the Justice Department faulted the prison system for failing to protect against “infiltration by religious extremists.” However, the report made clear that the problem was not chaplains, but rather unsupervised inmates.\n\nIn 2006, then FBI director Robert Mueller described the Islamist conversion movement operating throughout U.S. prisons, to a Senate committee. He said that prisons were a “fertile ground” for Islamic extremists, and that they targeted inmates for introduction to the militant Wahhabi and Salafist strains of Islam.\n\nMark S. Hamm, a criminologist at Indiana State University, describes a phenomenon he calls \"prison Islam.\" This consists of \"small gang-like cliques that use cut-and-paste versions of the Koran\" to give a religious patina to violent and criminal activities. Hamm has identified five such examples since 2005, notably the 2005 Los Angeles bomb plot.\n\nIn January 2010, John Kerry released a report that stated: \"Three dozen U.S. citizens who converted to Islam while in prison have traveled to Yemen, possibly for Al Qaeda training.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50887726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50887726", "title": "Emily Ying Yang Chan", "text": "Emily Ying Yang Chan\n\nEmily Ying Yang Chan is the Assistant Dean (Development) and Professor of the Chinese University of Hong Kong Faculty of Medicine, Associate Director (External Affairs and Collaboration) at the Jockey Club School of Public Health and Primary Care and Director at the Centre for Global Health (CGH), Director of the Collaborating Centre for Oxford University and CUHK for Disaster and Medical Humanitarian Response (CCOUC), Visiting Professor of Public Health Medicine at the Oxford University Nuffield Department of Medicine, Visiting Scholar at Harvard University FXB Center for Health and Human Rights, Senior Fellow at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Honorary Professor at University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, and Fellow at Hong Kong Academy of Medicine.\n\nShe received her academic training from Johns Hopkins University, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, University of Hong Kong (HKU), The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), and London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.\n\nHer research interests include climate change and health, health and environmental co-benefits, disaster and humanitarian medicine, global and planetary health, violence and injury epidemiology, healthy settings, health needs and programme impact evaluation, evidence-based medical and public health interventions in resource deficit settings.\n\nShe has been involved in professional technical public health specialist training programmes of the Hong Kong SAR Government (2011–present), Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention (China CDC) (2013–2015) and the Health Emergency Response Office of China's National Health and Family Planning Commission (2013–2015). In addition, through the CCOUC China Ethnic Minority Health Project (EMHP) she established in 2009, her team has outreached almost 6,600 households in 23 remote, disaster-prone, resource-deficit rural settings in China and trained nearly 400 students and scholars from CUHK, HKU, Oxford University and Harvard University. Professor Chan has also established research and training projects in Bhutan and Nepal. Moreover, the international online course \"Public Health Principles in Disaster and Medical Humanitarian Response\" developed by her team to examine the application of public health principles in planning and responding to disaster and humanitarian crises has almost 3,600 students enrolled from six continents since its launch in May 2014. Another two international online courses \"Climate Change and Health\" and \"Research Methodology for Disaster and Medical Humanitarian Response\" by her team have also been launched.\n\nEmily Chan is also a Co-chairperson of World Health Organization Thematic Platform for Health Emergency & Disaster Risk Management Research Group (WHO H-EDRM Research Group), a member of the Asia Science Technology and Academia Advisory Group of the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNISDR ASTAAG) and serves in various technical consultation capacities for World Health Organization (WHO). She has extensive experience in serving as frontline emergency relief practitioner in the mid-1990s that spans across 20 countries.\n\nEmily Chan was awarded the 2007 Nobuo Maeda International Research Award of the American Public Health Association and has published more than 200 international peer-reviewed academic/technical/conference articles and seven of these appeared in \"The Lancet\" and \"Bulletin of the World Health Organization\". Her community public health resilience and disaster-health related papers have been used as policy references within the WHO and the Health Emergency Response Office of China's National Health and Family Planning Commission. She has also received the National Geographic Chinese Explorer Award from the National Geographic Magazine and awarded the 2017 UGC Teaching Award by the University Grants Committee of Hong Kong.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n[[Category:Hong Kong academics]]\n[[Category:Chinese academics]]\n[[Category:Academics of Chinese University of Hong Kong]]\n[[Category:Medical scholars of the University of Oxford]]\n[[Category:Hong Kong doctors]]\n[[Category:Chinese women physicians]]\n[[Category:Year of birth missing (living people)]]\n[[Category:Living people]]\n[[Category:Johns Hopkins University alumni]]\n[[Category:Alumni of the University of Hong Kong]]\n[[Category:Alumni of the Chinese University of Hong Kong]]\n[[Category:Alumni of the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine]]\n[[Category:Harvard University faculty]]\n[[Category:Harvard School of Public Health faculty]]\n[[Category:Harvard School of Public Health alumni]]\n[[Category:Chinese Humanitarians]]\n[[Category:Climate change and society]]"}
{"id": "56940010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56940010", "title": "French people in Hungary", "text": "French people in Hungary\n\nHistorically, there was a significant French community residing in Hungary, who firstly came during the 11–13th century and then, once more, in a separate wave of settlement starting in the 18th century. Their descendants are today self-reported Hungarians in national censuses, with several of them having French surnames. The vast majority of today's French people living in Hungary have arrived since the Fall of the Iron Curtain.\n\nSeveral prominent noble families of Hungary originate from France or from Wallonia (e.g. Baron L’Huillier-Coburg, Baron Maillot de la Treille, Baron Toussainet, Baron Thierry, Baron Mandat-Grancey, Baron Deschan, Baron Montluisant, Baron Piret de Bihain, Baron Ransonnet, Earl Souches, Earl Sermage etc.).\n\nThe first French settlers came to Hungary immediately after the foundation of the Kingdom of Hungary. Among the settled foreigners, Germans were overwhelming in the majority, however, according to researches of \"Mihály Auner\" among others proofs that the immigration of the French element besides the German played also a significant role in the life of Hungarians. In the official documents during the rule of the Árpáds the true meaning of the often occurring words \"latinus\" and \"olasz\" meant not the Italian people, but all peoples speaking Neo Latin languages (Italian, French, Spanish etc.). (In Hungarian today the word \"olasz\" means Italian. At that time the word \"talján\" or \"Lombardus\" was in use for people of the Italian peninsula.) \"Latini\" in the Middle Ages was the common name of mainly members of the Western Congregation, while \"Graeci\" stood for the Eastern Church proponents. According to historians the name of Hungarian settlements containing the word \"olasz\" or \"olaszi\" could meant Walloon or French, because in German they are translated as \"wallen\".\n\nThe French/Walloons settled especially in Upper Hungary (in Eger, in Spiš and in Tokaj-Hegyalja) and Transylvania (in Kolozsvár, in Szatmár and in Várad-Olaszi (part of Nagyvárad)). The oldest among them was their settlement in Eger, which was already established likely in 1046. Several linguists (e.g. Géza Bárczi, János Melich and others) have assumed the Walloon-French origin of many of Hungarian place names, which can only be explained by the fact that they were founded by the French (e.g. Tállya from \"taille\"). According to János Melich it can be proofed with documents that between 1042 and 1048 Walloon and French settlers came to Hungary.\n\nIn Transdanubia, the town of Esztergom had a large number of French people living there. French names can be found among the members of the City Council until the 18th century. Esztergom was located along important commercial routes, and this lucky circumstance has made the town a center of commercial life in the Árpád era. Foreign merchants met here and changed their goods, many of them settled in the city. Master Roger called the French of Esztergom \"Francigenae\".\n\nFruška Gora () (today in Serbia) was also named after French settlers. The names mentioned in medieval documents \"Gallus\", \"Gallicus\", \"Francus\" also refer to French origin.\n\nBeside the merchants and peasants from France and Walloonia priests, monks, missionaries and church dignitaries came to Hungary in large numbers many of whom brought their compatriots to their ecclesiastical headquarters (e.g. Leodvin, Bishop of Nagyvárad (r. c. 1050 – c. 1060) in Nagyvárad; Bonipert, Bishop of Pécs (r. 1009-1036) and Bartholomew le Gros, Bishop of Pécs (r. 1219-1251) in Pécs; Robert, Archbishop of Esztergom (r. 1226-1239) in Esztergom). The first monks of the Cistercian Monasteries of Egres, Zirc, Pásztó, Szentgotthárd and Pilis Mountains were also French. These were built during the reign of Béla III who was known to have maintained good relations with the French and invited French craftsmen to Hungary to rebuild his royal palace and the cathedral in Esztergom. In 1091, King Saint Ladislaus founded the Somogyvár Abbey in Somogyvár whose monks could only be French until 1204.\n\nThe influence of medieval French settlements is also evident in the linguistic history of the Hungarian language. In spelling for the Hungarian \"cs\" (/tʃ/) sound the letters \"ch\", for the \"ny\" (/ɲ/) sound the letters \"nh\" and for the \"sz\" (/s/) sound before \"i\" and \"e\" the letters \"sc\" came into use. Also several Hungarian words are of Walloon-French origin according to studies of \"Géza Bárczy\".\n\nThe medieval French settlers with time assimilated into the Hungarian, \"Flandrenses\" and German (mainly Zipser German and Transylvanian Saxon) population. The supposition that Walloons of Nagyvárad used the French language still in the 14th century is made probable by the fact that they had French priest, \"Jean sacerdos de Olazi\" in 1330. According to Miklós Oláh the Walloons of Eger spoke French in 1536.\n\nDuring the Great Turkish War the Holy League could not liberate the whole territory of medieval Hungary from the Ottoman rule. The Treaty of Karlowitz (1699) ended the war in which the two parties agreed to accept the new borders between the Habsburg Empire and the Ottoman Empire which meant that the historical region of Banat stayed under Turkish rule. This agreement stayed in force until the Treaty of Passarowitz (1718) ending the Austro-Turkish War (1716–1718) in which Prince Eugene of Savoy and his army recaptured the Banat. \n\nThe Banat was in terrible condition at that time: the once densely populated area was almost completely uninhabited. Its residents died during the wars or escaped from the Ottoman oppression. The former Christian territory lost its buildings and churches, several of them were rebuilt to mosques. During the Ottoman rule huge areas of land became unproductive because it was not cultivated.\n\nCount Claude Florimond de Mercy field marshal trusted of reviving this region. He founded new villages and invited settlers from different Christian territories (e.g. Germany, Italy, France, Spain etc.). Most of the settlers were Banat Swabians.\n\nThe first known French settled in the region was a postman named \"Miklós Noël\" in Lugos in 1724.\n\nThe first wave of French immigrants came from Lorraine and settled in Neu-Beschenowa in the summer of 1748. At that time the danger of an Ottoman attack was possible, so Maria Theresa order them to complete a military training to be able to fight in case of a war. French settlers can be found among the first residents of the newly established St Andreas in 1750. They all came from Lorraine one part speaking French and the other German.\n\nFrench started to immigrate in larger numbers after 1763. According to \"László Marjanucz\" the earlier immigrants came mainly from Lorraine, Alsace, Luxembourg (Belgium) and Luxembourg, then later from regions of Metz, Besançon and Paris. Mercydorf was founded in 1735 and named after Count Claudius Florimund de Mercy. Its first residents were only Italians - 21 family in 1756. It was the only Italian dominated settlement of the Banat. During the years from 1769 to 1771 French settled in the village and they became the majority.\n\nBetween 1770 and 1771 the immigration reached its highest peak. The villages of Saint-Hubert, Charleville and Seultour were completely inhabited by French peasants from the Duchy of Lorraine. But the villages of Klein-Jetscha, Segenthau, Hatzfeld, Trübswetter, Gottlob, Ostern, Mercydorf, Charlottenburg, Rekasch, Marienfeld, Nakodorf and Weißkirchen had a significant French population. French settled also in Reschitz, Bruckenau, Jarmatha, Mastort, Heufeld, Groß-Jetscha, Tschatad, Bogarosch, Grabatz, Billed and Neu-Arad. Several settlers were referred to as Germans in official documents who had French surnames (e.g. \"Moutard\", \"Duc\", \"Boivinais\", \"Pitance\" etc.).\n\nThe treasury offered the immigrants support and greater freedom which made them interested in immigration to the Banat. They got land to cultivate, could build houses with the help of the treasury and tax exemption for years. The royal court always kept their interests in mind and made decisions in their benefit. They had the opportunity to take a loan (the so called \"Antizipation\") which they had to pay back after three years.\n\nDuring the beginning of the 19th century they assimilated into the Banat Swabian majority, a few into the Hungarians. Nowadays just their names show their French origin, but they do not speak French anymore. The longest existed their community in the three villages of Saint-Hubert, Charleville and Seultour where they stayed in majority for a long time. In the 1830s they still sung French chants during their worships, the evangelium was read in both German and French, and the preachings were held in German and French. But in just over a hundred years, the French language has also disappeared in these villages.\n\nIn the beginning of the 19th century several French travellers visited the villages. Charles Lemercier de Longpré, baron d'Haussez reported about them in 1835. Later Henri, Count of Chambord travelled there and he became so fond of the them that he bought the land and five villages - Mastort, Heufeld, Saint-Hubert, Charleville and Seultour - for 1.3 million Forints.\n\nLouis Hecht, a professor of the University of Nancy visited the French villages of the Banat in 1876. He already did not find anybody speaking French and several surnames were incorrectly recorded. The officers who came to the villages in most cases could not speak French so they wrote several names improperly, really often with German spelling. There were also some illiterate among the settlers who could not correct the spelling errors. Here is a list of names of some residents of Charleville: Ludwig Chapellie, Katharina Schirmon, Jean Düpolt, Ludwig Simono, Claude La Fleur, Joseph Piko, Anton Poussin, Karl Pigeot, Jean Peter, Le Cler, Hanry Cordie, Remillion Soissong, Jean Francois Quylion. With time several surnames changed as the population started to speak rather German. Some names were written in German: e.g. Picard -> Pikar, Bikar; Laurent -> Loran; Leblanc -> Löblan, Leblang, Leblanc; Marchand -> Marschang; Mougeon -> Muschong; Collin -> Kolleng; Aubertin -> Oberting, Oberden; Guilleaume -> Gilion, Giljon, Giljum; while others in Hungarian: Merle -> Merlei, Martin -> Martén, Houilon -> Hujjón.\n\nAfter the Second World War most of their communities were expelled. 7,000 of them were welcomed in France. In La Roque-sur-Pernes, France they still have a compact community.\n\nResearches of \"Lajos Baróti\", \"Antal Bodor\", \"Lénárt Bőhm\", \"Louis Hecht\", \"Jenő Szentkláray\" and \"Rogér Schilling\" provide information of the French settlements of the Banat.\n\nFrom the Banat several of them moved to other parts of Hungary. Hungarians having French surnames can be found mainly in Szeged (e.g. Chambré, Cherrier, Christophe, Dippong, Frecot, Gilde, Giljon, Giljum, Kahlesz, Leblanc, Massong, Merle, Muschong, Noel, Oberting, Piar, Pierre, Pétri, Potier, Schorsch, Stufle, Vitye, Wottreng etc.). Well-known Hungarians of Banat French descent are \"Alessandro Bonnaz\", Alajos Degré, \"Miklós Cherrier\", Jacob Muschong and Győző Leblanc.\n\nThe majority of the French population in Hungary speaks French or Hungarian as their first language.\n\nGustave Eiffel French School of Budapest is a French international school in Budapest.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54172807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54172807", "title": "Graham Ousey", "text": "Graham Ousey\n\nGraham C. Ousey is an American sociologist and criminologist. He is a professor of sociology at the College of William & Mary, where he is also the chair of the sociology department. He is known for researching immigration and crime.\n\n"}
{"id": "8558463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8558463", "title": "Gurunsi peoples", "text": "Gurunsi peoples\n\nThe Gurunsi, or Grunshi, are a set of related ethnic groups inhabiting northern Ghana and south and central Burkina Faso.\n\nOral traditions of the Gurunsi hold that they originated from the western Sudan near Lake Chad. While it is unknown when the migration occurred, it is believed that the Gurunsi were present in their current location by 1100 AD. Following the 15th century, when the Mossi states were established to the north, Mossi horsemen often raided Gurunsi areas for slaves, but the Gurunsi peoples were never fully subjugated, remaining independent.\n\nAccording to doctor Salif Titamba Lankoande, in \"Noms de famille (Patronymes) au Burkina Faso\", the name Gurunsi comes from the Djerma language of Niger words “Guru-si”, which means “iron does not penetrate”. It is said that during the Djerma invasions of Gurunsi lands in the late 19th century, a Djerma jihadist leader by the name of Baba Ato Zato (better known by the Hausa corruption of his name: Babatu) recruited a battalion of indigenous men for his army, who after having consumed traditional medicines, were said to be invulnerable to iron.\n\nThe people who speak closely related Gur languages and dialects and classed by the Moose under the umbrella term Gurunse form an arc of village communities mostly organised as defensive strongholds from the Koudougou residency west and northwest of Ouagadougou in colonial times to the northeast of current day Ghana. This area became in the late 1890s part of a three-way competition between the colonial forces of the French, the British, and the Germans, trying to subdue Djerma warlords and fight also the warlike local population who resisted fiercely to maintain its autonomy, while vying to occupy as much territory as possible at the expense of rival colonial powers. Each of the three claimed part or the territory occupied by the Gourounsi villages, but the competition between the colonial powers was not resolved until the last year of the 19th century. After establishing the protectorates of Yatenga (1895) and Ouagadougou (1896), the French annexed Gurunsi lands in 1897. Eventually the Germans withdrew to Togoland (modern Ghana & Togo), and an 1898 Anglo-French agreement officially established the boundary with the Gold Coast (now Ghana). This partition divided Gurunsi peoples among French and British administrative systems, facilitating the political and cultural divergence of sub-groups on each side of the boundary.\n\nThere are numerous ethnic sub-groups among the Gurunsi, such as: the Frafra, Kusasi, Nabt and Talensi in Ghana; the Ko, Lyele, Nuni and Sisaala in Burkina Faso. The sub-groups Kassena and Nankani inhabit both Ghana and Burkina Faso. Although characterized by neither a common language nor common political institutions, the social, economic, and religious practices of these sub-groups are sufficiently similar for them to constitute a distinct cultural unit.\n\nThe Gurunsi people of Tiébéle are known for their cob homes which are built by the men and decorated on the exterior with geometric patterns.\n\n"}
{"id": "27685640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27685640", "title": "Hong Kong Canadians", "text": "Hong Kong Canadians\n\nHong Kong Canadians or Canadians of Hong Kong origin ( or ) are Canadian citizens who identify themselves to be of Hong Kong descent. The largest wave of immigration to Canada from Hong Kong occurred during the late 1980s and early 1990s, chiefly as the fear of uncertainties concerning the transfer of sovereignty of Hong Kong in 1997.\n\nThe though some choose to eschew their \"Chinese\" identity. They often trace their ancestry to Cantonese, Hakka, Hoklo, and Toisan cultural groups.\n\nMany Hong Kong Canadians hold multiple citizenships, often possessing Canadian and HKSAR passports. Some Hong Kong Canadians have returned to Hong Kong from Canada since 1997 and have resettled in the territory permanently. As of 2014, Hong Kong has the highest concentration of Canadian citizens in Asia, with approximately 300,000 Canadian citizens of all ethnic backgrounds living in the city.\n\nIn Canada, the majority of Hong Kong Canadians reside in the metropolitan areas of Toronto and Vancouver.\n\nThe majority of Chinese Canadians migrated to Canada from the mid 1980s to 2000. However early settlement could be traced back to the early 19th Century when Hong Kong became a British crown colony, natives from Kwangtung (now Guangdong) escaped and settled in Hong Kong for a short while before migrating to North America.\n\nIn 1984, the Sino-British Joint Declaration was signed which largely shaped the future politics and economy of Hong Kong. The then British colony would become a Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China. Many people in Hong Kong at the time perceived a negative image of the China's government which was largely influenced by their experience with the illegal immigrants from the Canton province who smuggled into Hong Kong in the hope of finding freedom and better living standard than the lives ruled by the Chinese Communists .\n\nThe fear of losing their freedom and prosperity under the China's government drove the Hong Kong citizens to despise their own Chinese identity. Their fear and worries were proved to be correct by the 1989 Tiananmen Square Crackdown which later drove a large emigration wave to the anglophone world between 1980's to early 2000's. One of the most popular destination chosen by the immigrants was Canada, where thousands of Hongkongers settled in Greater Toronto and Metro Vancouver.\n\nIn 2006, among the 790,035 speakers of any of the varieties of Chinese, 300,590 were speakers of Cantonese. According to 2001 statistics, 44% of the Cantonese speakers were born in Hong Kong, 27% were born in Guangdong, the Chinese province where most Hongkongers have their ancestral roots, and 18% were Canadian-born.\n\nDuring the 2000s, some Canadian citizens from Hong Kong and their descendants have returned to Hong Kong for job opportunities. There are estimated to be as many as 300,000 Canadians in Hong Kong. Conversely, according to the Canadian Consulate General in Hong Kong, there are 500,000 people of Hong Kong descent in Canada. Hong Kong boasts one of the largest Canadian communities abroad (an estimated 295,000). This community, along with some 500,000 people of Hong Kong descent in Canada, plays a dynamic role in building vibrant bilateral relations between Canada and Hong Kong.\n\nCanada's presence in Hong Kong is also reflected by the presence of Hong Kong-Canadian associations, such as the Chinese Canadian Association, established in 1989 and the Canadian University Association, which now acts as an umbrella group for some twenty Canadian university alumni associations active in Hong Kong today.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2548773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2548773", "title": "House of Israel (Ghana)", "text": "House of Israel (Ghana)\n\nThe House of Israel is a Jewish community located in Sefwi Wiawso in southwestern Ghana. This group of people, of the Sefwi tribe, built a synagogue in 1998. Many of the men and children read English, but no one knows Hebrew.\n\nThe people of Sefwi Wiawso trace a call for a \"return\" to normative Judaism by Aaron Ahomtre Toakyirafa, a community leader who, in 1976, is said to have had a vision. In 2012, Gabrielle Zilkha, a Toronto-based filmmaker, visited Sefwe Wiawso to do research for a documentary about the House of Israel she is making. According to Zilkha, about 200 people--mostly children--live in the community. She states that the lack of a historical record makes it difficult to verify the groups claims, but that there is an oral tradition dating back 200 years.\n\nThe leader of the House of Israel since 1993, David Ahenkorah received his own vision in taking up the mantle. He has been granted a 40-acre plot of land to build a Jewish school for the community, but they have not yet been able to raise funds for construction. Children currently attend a local school, run by Christians. They built a synagogue in 1998 in New Adiembra, a Jewish neighborhood in Sefri Wiawso. Recently, they painted it blue and white, the colors of Israel. There are several family compounds nearby and about 200 people belong to the synagogue.\n\n\nJewish Virtual Library. 2002. \n"}
{"id": "41496207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41496207", "title": "Ivanovism", "text": "Ivanovism\n\nIvanovism (Russian: Ивановизм), also known by the name of the followers, the Ivanovites (Ивановцы), is a religious movement in Russia based on the teachings of the mystic Porfiry Ivanov and his \"natural healing system\". The movement is classified as syncretic. Central to the movement is the \"Detka\" (Детка) healing system and a \"Hymn to Life\" (Гимн жизни) focused on religious ideas.\n\nThe Ivanovite movement is categorised among Russian new religious movements as Neopagan with neo-Christian elements.\n\n"}
{"id": "5298606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5298606", "title": "Japanese castes under the ritsuryō", "text": "Japanese castes under the ritsuryō\n\nWhen the Ritsuryō legal system was starting to be enforced in Japan at the end of the 7th century, it included, as in Tang China, a division between those two major castes. The term Ryosensei (良賤制) describes the whole system. The Senmin caste, divided into five \"genres\", is also called Goshiki no Sen (五色の賤), the \"Senmin of five genres\", sometimes abbreviated to gosen (五賤).\n\nCaste was part of the citizen registration enforced with the ritsuryō.\n\nThe Ryōmin (lit. \"Good citizens\") were the upper-class, divided into the four following subcastes\n\nThe Senmin (lit. \"low citizens\") were the lower-class, divided into the five following subcastes:\n\nIntercaste wedding was at first not allowed.\nRyōko, Kanko and Kenin were allowed to have their own families.\n\nThe lowest two levels of citizens (\"Nuhi\", slaves) could be sold or owned by Ryōmin citizens, and were not allowed to have a registered family. This caste system was not very rigid, in the sense that Kunuhi could become Kanko when they got older (66), and automatically freed at very old age (76), and Ryōmin could become Senmin (at the Kanko level) after having committed some crimes.\n\nAt first, children born between Ryōmin and Senmin would become Senmin. In 789, this changed and children born between Ryōmin and Senmin were Ryōmin.\nThe Senmin was a minority of the whole population.\n\n\n- ルチエ・モルンシュタイノヴァー. \"近代における被差別民の社会的な地位: 日本とヨーロッパの簡略比較.\" 比較日本学教育研究センター研究年報 第13号 Ochanomizu University, 2017. Web. 16 Mar. 2017.\n\n- Ohnuki-Tierney, Emiko. Rice as Self: Japanese Identities through Time. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1993. Print.\n\n- Visočnik, Nataša. \"Living on the Edge: Buraku in Kyōto, Japan.\" Anthropological Notebooks 20.2 (2014): 127-143. Web.\n"}
{"id": "4930353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4930353", "title": "Kimr people", "text": "Kimr people\n\nKimr is an ethnic group in West Darfur in Sudan and Chad. They speak Gimr, a dialect of Tama, a Nilo-Saharan language. The population of this ethnicity possibly is below 10,000. \n"}
{"id": "29613980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29613980", "title": "Lachi language", "text": "Lachi language\n\nThe Lachi language (Chinese: Laji 拉基, Vietnamese: La Chí; autonym in China: '; autonym in Vietnam: ', where \"\" means \"person\") is a Kra language spoken in Yunnan, China and in northern Vietnam. There were 9,500 Lachi speakers in Vietnam in 1990. Edmondson (2008) reports another 2,500 in Maguan County, Yunnan, China for 1995, but Li Yunbing (2000) reports 60 speakers in Maguan out of an ethnic population of 1,600.\n\nWeera Ostapirat proposed three major subdivisions for the Lachi language.\n\n\nJerold A. Edmondson notes that Vietnamese researchers recently have not been able to locate White (Central) Lachi speakers. It is also the least studied variety of Lachi.\n\nThe \"Maguan County Gazetteer\" 马关县志 (1996) lists the following Lachi ethnic subdivisions.\n\nThe \"Maguan County Gazetteer\" 马关县志 (1996) also lists the following autonyms for the Lachi.\n\nThe Republic of China-era \"Maguan County Gazetteer\" 马关县志 gives the names Labo 剌僰 (with a dog radical 犭for La 剌) and Laji 拉鸡.\n\nKosaka (2000) reports 6,000–8,000 Lachi speakers in Vietnam, and 2,000 in China. The Lachi of Maguan County, China are currently classified as Zhuang (Li 2000), while the Lachi of Malipo County, China, along with the Qabiao, are classified as Yi. The Lachi of Vietnam have official status as a separate ethnic group.\n\nThe Lachi of China live in various locations in Maguan County (马关县), Yunnan, which is located in Wenshan Zhuang and Miao Autonomous Prefecture (文山壮族苗族自治州) near the border with Hà Giang Province, Vietnam. According to American linguist Jerold A. Edmondson, the Lachi of China are thought to have moved to their present location during the Qing Dynasty from places in Vietnam called Maibu 麥布, Maidu 麥督, and Maiha 麥哈. Other Lachis are also found scattered in Yanshan, Qiubei, Xichou, and Malipo counties.\n\nThe subdivisions, with their respective locations, are as follows:\n\nFlowery Lachi (autonym: \"li35 pu44 ljo44 n̩44 tɕo55\")\n\nChinese Lachi (autonym: \"li35 pu44 tɕo44\")\n\nPocket Lachi (autonym: \"li35 pu44 te35\")\n\nRed Lachi (autonym: \"li33 pu44 ke55\")\n\nThe Lachi live mostly in Xín Mần District and Hoàng Su Phì District, Hà Giang Province, Vietnam. There are also many Lachi living in Bắc Quang District in southern Hà Giang Province, which is outside their home district of Hoàng Su Phì. Since the Lachi dialects of Vietnam have many Chinese loanwords, the Lachi of Vietnam must have migrated from areas to the north in China (Kosaka 2000). Similarly, the Lachi of Maguan County, Yunnan, China just across the border believed that their ancestors had migrated from Ami Prefecture 阿迷州, which is now Kaiyuan, Yunnan. In Vietnam, Jerold Edmondson notes that the most common autonym used by his Lachi informants is \"qu31 te341\", with \"qu31\" meaning 'people' (from Proto-Kra *khra 'people').\n\nThe Lachi people are an officially recognized ethnic group in Vietnam, and are divided as such (Kosaka 2000, Edmondson 2008):\n\nLong Haired Lachi (autonym: \"li35 pu44 tjoŋ44\")\n\nBlack Lachi (autonym: \"li35 pu44 pi55\")\n\nWhite Lachi (autonym: \"li35 pu44 pu55\"; language possibly extinct)\n\nLachi is also spoken in (Kosaka 2000):\n\nKosaka (2000) describes the following migratory route that took the Lachi of Bản Phùng, Hoàng Su Phì District to other locations, all in Bắc Quang District, Hà Giang Province.\n\nThe \"Maguan County Gazetteer\" 马关县志 (1996) lists the following locations in Vietnam with ethnic Lachi.\n\nLike other Kra languages such as Gelao and Buyang, Lachi displays clause-final negation (Li 2000).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56309", "title": "Land use", "text": "Land use\n\nLand use involves the management and modification of natural environment or wilderness into built environment such as settlements and semi-natural habitats such as arable fields, pastures, and managed woods. It also has been defined as \"the total of arrangements, activities, and inputs that people undertake in a certain land cover type.\"\n\nLand Use practices vary considerably across the world. The United Nations' Food and Agriculture Organization Water Development Division explains that \"Land use concerns the products and/or benefits obtained from use of the land as well as the land management actions (activities) carried out by humans to produce those products and benefits.\" As of the early 1990s, about 13% of the Earth was considered arable land, with 26% in pasture, 32% forests and woodland, and 1.5% urban areas.\n\nAs Albert Guttenberg (1959) wrote many years ago, \"'Land use' is a key term in the language of city planning.\" Commonly, political jurisdictions will undertake land-use planning and regulate the use of land in an attempt to avoid land-use conflicts. Land use plans are implemented through land division and use ordinances and regulations, such as zoning regulations. Management consulting firms and non-governmental organizations will frequently seek to influence these regulations before they are codified.\n\nIn colonial America, few regulations existed to control the use of land, due to the seemingly endless amounts of it. As society shifted from rural to urban, public land regulation became important, especially to city governments trying to control industry, commerce, and housing within their boundaries. The first zoning ordinance was passed in New York City in 1916, and, by the 1930s, most states had adopted zoning laws. In the 1970s, concerns about the environment and historic preservation led to further regulation.\n\nToday, federal, state, and local governments regulate growth and development through statutory law. The majority of controls on land, however, stem from the actions of private developers and individuals. Three typical situations bringing such private entities into the court system are: suits brought by one neighbor against another; suits brought by a public official against a neighboring landowner on behalf of the public; and suits involving individuals who share ownership of a particular parcel of land. In these situations, judicial decisions and enforcement of private land-use arrangements can reinforce public regulation, and achieve forms and levels of control that regulatory zoning cannot.\n\nTwo major federal laws have been passed in the last half century that limit the use of land significantly. These are the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 (today embodied in 16 U.S.C. 461 et seq.) and the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).\n\nThe US Department of Agriculture has identified six major types of land use in the US. Acreage statistics for each type of land use in the contiguous 48 states in 2017 were as follows:\n\n\nLand use and land management practices have a major impact on natural resources including water, soil, nutrients, plants and animals. Land use information can be used to develop solutions for natural resource management issues such as salinity and water quality. For instance, water bodies in a region that has been deforested or having erosion will have different water quality than those in areas that are forested. Forest gardening, a plant-based food production system, is believed to be the oldest form of land use in the world.\n\nThe major effect of land use on land cover since 1750 has been deforestation of temperate regions. More recent significant effects of land use include urban sprawl, soil erosion, soil degradation, salinization, and desertification. Land-use change, together with use of fossil fuels, are the major anthropogenic sources of carbon dioxide, a dominant greenhouse gas.\n\nAccording to a report by the United Nations' Food and Agriculture Organization, land degradation has been exacerbated where there has been an absence of any land use planning, or of its orderly execution, or the existence of financial or legal incentives that have led to the wrong land use decisions, or one-sided central planning leading to over-utilization of the land resources - for instance for immediate production at all costs. As a consequence the result has often been misery for large segments of the local population and destruction of valuable ecosystems. Such narrow approaches should be replaced by a technique for the planning and management of land resources that is integrated and holistic and where land users are central. This will ensure the long-term quality of the land for human use, the prevention or resolution of social conflicts related to land use, and the conservation of ecosystems of high biodiversity value.\n\nThe urban growth boundary is one form of land-use regulation. For example, Portland, Oregon is required to have an urban growth boundary which contains at least of vacant land. Additionally, Oregon restricts the development of farmland. The regulations are controversial, but an economic analysis concluded that farmland appreciated similarly to the other land.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44053019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44053019", "title": "Lee E. Ross", "text": "Lee E. Ross\n\nLee E. Ross is an African-American criminologist and author of articles and books that address issues of domestic violence and topics related to race, crime, and justice.\n\nRoss was born in Tuskegee, Alabama, but his parents eventually relocated to Hempstead, New York. Upon graduating Hempstead High School, he attended Niagara University in Niagara Falls, New York. There, he earned a bachelor's degree in criminal justice before receiving the Patricia Roberts Harris Fellowship to pursue graduate studies at Rutgers University where he earned his masters and doctorate in criminology. Ross also spent seven years as a federal law enforcement officer with the United States Customs Service. He has held various academic positions, including teaching at the University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee and the University of Wisconsin-Parkside (where he served as Department Chair) prior to his current position at the University of Central Florida.\n\nRoss is editor of \"Continuing the War Against Domestic Violence\", 2nd Edition. He is a member of the Academy of Criminal Justice Sciences and the European Society of Criminology. He has received academic awards for teaching excellence and research, including the COHPA Research Fellow award and the Outstanding Mentor of the Year Award from the Academy of Criminal Justice Sciences. In 1998, his book \"African-American Criminologists, 1970-1996: An Annotated Bibliography\" was the first of it kind to document the scholarly contributions of African-American criminologists to the field of criminal justice, and was described as \"the most complete index to the work of Black criminologists\" by Katheryn Russell-Brown.\n\n"}
{"id": "27679120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27679120", "title": "Litvishe", "text": "Litvishe\n\nLitvishe is a Yiddish word, that refers to Haredi Jews, who are not Hasidim (and not Hardalim or Sephardic Haredim). The Hebrew form which is used with the same meaning is Lita'im. Other expressions are Yeshivishe and Misnagdim.\n\nBoth the words Litvishe and Lita'im are somewhat misleading, because there are also Hasidic Jews from Lithuania, and lots of Lithuanian Jews who are not Haredim. The reference to Lithuania does not refer to the country of that name today, but to the historic Grand Duchy of Lithuania, which also included all of modern-day Belarus and also parts of Ukraine. The term Misnagdim (\"opponents\"), on the other hand, is somewhat outdated, because the opposition between the two groups has lost much of its relevance.\n\n"}
{"id": "38190145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38190145", "title": "Marvin Wolfgang", "text": "Marvin Wolfgang\n\nMarvin Eugene Wolfgang (14 November 1924 in Millersburg, Pennsylvania – 12 April 1998 in Philadelphia) was an American sociologist and criminologist.\n\nWolfgang was a soldier in World War II and participated in the Battle of Monte Cassino. After the war he studied at the University of Pennsylvania, where his principal teacher was Thorsten Sellin. At Penn, Wolfgang took his MA (1950) and PhD (1955) in sociology/criminology. Until his death in 1998 he was a professor of criminology at the University of Pennsylvania.\n\nIn 1964, he published \"The Measurement of Delinquency\", which was the first study of the true impact of crime on society. Three years later, he completed \"\", which focused on high rates of violence among blacks and the influence of a black subculture.\n\nWolfgang wrote over 30 books and 150 articles throughout his life. His most famous work, \"Delinquency in a Birth Cohort\", was published in 1972. This book marked the beginning of large-scale studies of crime and delinquency. It was a study of over 10,000 boys born in Philadelphia in 1945. The purpose was \"to determine which members of the cohort had official contacts with the police, to compare delinquents with nondelinquents, and to trace the volume, frequency and character of delinquent careers up to age 18.\" The data revealed that of 9,945 boys, 3,475 had at least one recorded police incident. Other statistics showed that offender rates increased gradually from ages 7 to 11, increased rapidly from 11 to 16, and declined at age 17. The study concluded that a small number of offenders account for most of the offenses committed. It also stated that \"the juvenile justice system has been able to screen the hard core offenders fairly well, but it has been unable to restrain, discourage, or cure delinquency.\"\n\nWolfgang won many awards, including the Hans Von Hentig Award from the World Society of Victimology in 1988, the Edwin Sutherland Award from the American Society of Criminology in 1989, the Beccaria Gold Medal from the German, Austrian, and Swiss Society of Criminology in 1997; in 1993, the Wolfgang Criminology Award was established in his name.\n\nWolfgang spent the later years of his life showing his opposition to issues such as the death penalty and the use of a gun against a perpetrator in articles such as \"We Do Not Deserve to Kill\" and \"A Tribute to a View I Have Opposed.\" (at http://scholarlycommons.law.northwestern.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=6854&context=jclc) in which he says he does not like their conclusions that having a gun for self-defense \"can be useful,\" but cannot fault their methodology.\n\n\"\"What troubles me is the article by Gary Kleck and Marc Gertz. [\"Armed Resistance to Crime: The Prevalence and Nature of Self-Defense with a Gun,\" by Gary Kleck and Marc Gertz, published in that same issue of The Journal of Criminal Law & Criminology] The reason I am troubled is that they have provided an almost clear cut case of methodologically sound research in support of something I have theoretically opposed for years, namely, the use of a gun in defense against a criminal perpetrator. ...I have to admit my admiration for the care and caution expressed in this article and this research. Can it be true that about two million instances occur each year in which a gun was used as a defensive measure against crime? It is hard to believe. Yet, it is hard to challenge the data collected. We do not have contrary evidence. The National Crime Victim Survey does not directly contravene this latest survey, nor do the Mauser and Hart Studies. ... the methodological soundness of the current Kleck and Gertz study is clear. I cannot further debate it. ... The Kleck and Gertz study impresses me for the caution the authors exercise and the elaborate nuances they examine methodologically. I do not like their conclusions that having a gun can be useful, but I cannot fault their methodology. They have tried earnestly to meet all objections in advance and have done exceedingly well.\"\n\nHis career was cut short by pancreatic cancer, and he died on 12 April 1998. The British Journal of Criminology stated he was \"the most influential criminologist in the English-speaking world.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15545406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15545406", "title": "Maskarada (carnival of Soule)", "text": "Maskarada (carnival of Soule)\n\nThe maskarada is a popular set of traditional, theatrical performances that take place annually during the time of carnival in the Basque region of Soule, France (\"Zuberoa\" in the Basque language). It is generally referred to in the plural (\"maskaradak\") as it is repeated across the region on the streets of villages (one day per village) over the span of a month or two in late winter through spring.\nThe plays are performed by the villages' (usually younger) inhabitants, and the arrangements for each maskarada are the responsibility of each participating village. Sometimes, when two villages are very small, they will share the duties together.\n\nThough naturally the actors change from year to year, a friendly air of informality, formed of deep familiarity pervades throughout. The Maskaradak follow variations on very traditional themes that make use of time-honoured sets and age-old, immutable characters. A motley parade of musicians (atabal, ttun-ttun and xirula players), traditional dancers and assorted actors, villagers and visitors walk merrily along a route that meanders up and down the village's streets.\n\nAt particular points of the parade, the \"barrikadak\" take place, where the marchers stop in front of a stall put there by the villagers, and bestow on them a dance, sometimes even a song, this in exchange for snacks (biscuits, crisps, and the like), and refreshments (wine and liquor), which is then shared with bystanders. The process is repeated over and over, perhaps lasting all day, from early in the morning till afternoon (with a popular lunch somewhere in the middle), until the end of the final performance at the parade terminus - usually the village market place or Basque pelota court.\n\nMaskaradas represent a genuine example of traditional popular carnival theatre struggling to survive, much in step with the modest revival of the Basque language. It's connected to pastoral in many aspects, such as recurrent fixed characters, a marked distinction in the group (e.g. the reds stand for the good, while the blacks represent the evil) or a rigid structuring and development. The language used by the actors remains bilingual Zuberoan Basque, for the most part, and Bearnais, despite some difficulties to hand either language over to new generations.\n\n"}
{"id": "54740781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54740781", "title": "Maui solar telescope protests", "text": "Maui solar telescope protests\n\nThe Maui solar telescope protests are a series of protests and demonstrations attempting to block the construction of the Daniel K. Inouye Solar Telescope on the summit of Haleakalā on Maui, Hawaii.\n\nBeginning in 1958, telescopes began to be built atop Maui's Haleakalā summit becoming the Haleakalā High Altitude Observatory Site, owned and managed by the University of Hawaii. In 2010 the Hawai'i Department of Land and Natural Resources issued a permit for the construction, but that permit was revoked because it was granted before a required contested case hearing. Two hearings had to be held because the hearing officer of the first meeting was disqualified for ex parte communications with representatives of Daniel Inouye. The second meeting resulted in the new hearing officer recommending the permits. Groundbreaking took place in 2012. Construction was well underway even with a lawsuit to the Hawaii Supreme court. During an appeal of the second permit, one of the justices was concerned about the disconnect between an environmental impact study that showed a major impact, and the board's decision that there would be no substantial impact.\n\nIn June 2015 protesters blockaded the baseyard at the foot of the mountain that served as a staging area for construction. They succeeded in turning back the convoy delivery. They attempted the delivery again in late July.\n\nIn the early morning of July 31, 2015 activists, protesters and demonstrators showed up to block the Maui Baseyard. Aware that protesters were planning a demonstration, Maui police put out a statement saying: \"Maui Police Department respects the rights for people to demonstrate peacefully,\" and, \"We will respond in an appropriate manner.\" Protesters lay on the ground attached to PVC pipe and chains in an attempt to stop the construction of the telescope. Police arrested 20 people ranging in age from 19 to 60. One of those arrested was a Hawaiian Studies professor at the University of Hawaii, Maui, Kaleikoa Ka‘eo, who stated, \"Fundamentally, we are asserting our human rights\". Activist Trinette Furtado was not arrested but said, \"We are not anti-telescope, we are not anti-science... We are for the mountain, we are for preserving our culture. We stand for the conservation, desecration, archaeological and Hawaiian access laws which protect Haleakala.\" Maui Police released the photos of 18 of the 20 arrested later that day.\n\nOn August 19, 2015 approximately 150 protesters attempted to block the convoy of construction trucks from its baseyard. Eight people were arrested when they refused to move from the roadway. Once past the first group of protesters, the convoy was again blocked at Haleakalā Crater road with debris scattered on the roadway. Police in full riot gear carried protesters away. Among those arrested was Joshua Lanakila Mangauil, a leader of the Thirty Meter Telescope protests.\n\nIn October 2016 the Hawaii Supreme court upheld the BLNR permit.\n\nOn August 2, 2017, protesters attempted to block the equipment convoy containing the primary mirror for the telescope. Over 100 protesters had converged at the intersection of Kula Highway and Old Haleakalā Highway on the evening of August 1.\n"}
{"id": "21336388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21336388", "title": "Memons in South Africa", "text": "Memons in South Africa\n\nMemons in South Africa form a prosperous Muslim subgroup in that country's Indian community and are largely descended from Memons from Kathiawar who immigrated from India in the late 19th century/early 20th century. Villages and towns that South African Memons originated from include Porbander, Bhanvad, Ranavav and Jodiya.\n\nMemons played a major role in the promotion of Islam in South Africa, and there have been rivalries for the management of local mosques between Memons and Surtis, who are Gujarati-speaking Sunni Muslims. This is primarily due to the different 'Maslak' (path) Deobandi mainly Surti, and Barelvi mainly Memon, although these are far less prominent than they were in the past.\n\nAlthough the Memoni language is not widely spoken by younger Memons in South Africa, South African Memons continue to maintain a strong (although slowly eroding) Memon identity. Already, few younger Memons are aware of the towns where their ancestors came from. Although the early Memons practiced endogamy (marrying within their social group, including ancestral village), intermarriage between Memon groups and other Sunni Muslims is now widely accepted, mirroring a similar integration among Gujarati Hindu groups from Surat and Shauarashtra.\nMemon organisations in South Africa include the Memon Association of South Africa (formerly the 'Memon Association of the Transvaal'), the Southern African Memon Foundation and the Natal Memon Jamaat.\n"}
{"id": "35270677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35270677", "title": "Muria language", "text": "Muria language\n\nMuria is a Dravidian language spoken in India. Three varieties have minimal intelligibility. It is sometimes confused with the Madiya language. It is suspected to be mutually unintelligible with northern Gondi dialects.\n\nMuria has 10 vowels and 21 consonants.\n"}
{"id": "50783500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50783500", "title": "Musawah", "text": "Musawah\n\nMusawah ('equality'; in Arabic: ) is a global movement for equality and justice in the Muslim family, led by feminists \"seeking to reclaim Islam and the Koran for themselves\".\n\nTwelve women met in Istanbul as the planning committee in March 2007, from countries around the world: Egypt, the Gambia, Indonesia, Iran, Malaysia, Morocco, Nigeria, Pakistan, Qatar, Turkey and the United Kingdom.\n\nMusawah was officially launched in Kuala Lampur in February 2009, at a meeting of 250 Muslim activists, scholars, legal practitioners and policy-makers from 47 countries. Mona Eltahawy, the Egyptian-American journalist and Musawah member, commented on this founding moment: \"Panel discussions and dinner talk [...] were heated, but not about headscarves or education. We had much heavier issues on our minds — like a woman’s right to initiate divorce, how to protect women against clerics who say Islam gives a husband the right to beat his wife, fighting forced marriage. In other words, wrestling Islam back from the men who use it against us.\"\n\nThe name \"Musawah\" comes from an Arabic word that translates as \"equality\".\n\nMusawah's advocacy draws from four primary sources:\nIn practice, this has translated into advocacy around issues such as reforming divorce laws in Muslim countries. Tools used by Musawah to advance this goal have included research into the differences between traditional Muslim family laws and the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women, publication of books on Islamic jurisprudence, and toolkits for advocates.\n\nOne of Musawah's co-founders, Malaysian activist Zainah Anwar, offered this perspective on Musawah's role in the broader women's and human rights movements: \"What Musawah brings to the table is a rich and diverse collection of interpretations, juristic opinions and principles that makes it possible to read equality and justice in Islam, and construe these twin values at national and international levels. It is a vital contribution at a time when democracy, human rights and women's rights constitute the modern ethical paradigm of today's world.\"\n\nChallenges in Musawah's work include ongoing debates around the multiple interpretations of the Koran, and the defence of a human rights interpretation from within Islam, rather than a secular human rights framework.\n\n"}
{"id": "24003866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24003866", "title": "Muslim Rangrez", "text": "Muslim Rangrez\n\nThe Rangrez is a Muslim community in North India. Many members of Muslim Rangrez community have migrated to Pakistan after independence and have settled in Karachi, Sindh.\n\nThe word \"rangrez\" (رنگریز) means a dyer in the Persian language, and the community has been connected with this occupation, but in present circumstances its members are involved in different trades and other business activities. Many now claim Central Asian descent, and it is quite possible that only some may be of Turkic ancestry. They perceive themselves a Shaikh status but in actually they are a student and bc Hindu converts and they are genetically not as Caucasian as upper caste muslims. They may be converts from the Hindu Rangrez caste, Rajputs or it is more likely that they are a community of foreign origin, who over time have evolved into a community which is now bound by rules of endogamy They are now associated with the printing of clothes.\nBut ranrezz of India don't have same dna intermixing as pathans and seyeds do, it means they are mid caste Hindu converts and they have nothing to do with muslim rajpoots, mewati or kayamkhani.even their skin tone and facial features are austaloid type.\nThey have the three subdivision, the Lalgarh, Nilgarh and Chhipi, and speak Urdu, as well as local dialects of Hindi. The basis of these social divisions is occupation. In this social hierarchy, the Chhipi are placed in the lowest position, because they dyed and printed clothes, whereas the Lalgarh and Nilgarh generally prepare colour from indigo. In fact, the Chhipi form a distinct endogamous sub-group within the larger Rangrez community. The word Rangrez has now been replaced by the word Sabbagh, which is an Arabic word meaning garden. They are a Sunni Muslim community. They also visit the shrines of various Sufi saints found in North India, such as Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti.\n\nThe Rangrez are found in the states of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi and Rajasthan. There are many Rangrez organisations such as All India Rangrez Jagran Manch running in India with Mr. Rangrez Mustaquim Akhtar, a social worker as its national president. Contact information for Mr. Rangrez Mustaquim Akhtar are: Address: Near street no. 11, Main Road, Nagmatia Colony, Gaya Town, state: Bihar, INDIA. Phone number: +919931413550. Another organisation is the Kul Hind Anjuman Sabbagh being an all India organisation of Rangrez with its headquarters at Delhi.\nQuite a few Rangrez have immigrated to Pakistan, where they form an important element in the Muhajir community.\n\nIn Uttar Pradesh, they are a landless community, involved in textiles and printing. Many have given up their traditional occupation, and recent surveys show only ten percent are still involved in their traditional occupation. Many have now adopted different other occupation Rangrez specially in Rohilkhand Region are substanstially land owner and involve in different types of trade. In Pilibhit District Tehsil Puranpur where Rangrez have sizeable population and are well to do rangrez also have sizable population in Bareilly district. Tehsil baheri have good no. of population where its member are Businessman. They live in multi-caste and multi-religious villages, but occupy their own distinct quarters. Most speak Urdu, as well as local dialects of Hindi, such as Awadhi.\n\nThe Rangrez have their own council of elders to deal with matters relating to the community. This caste council or panchayat deals with issues such as elopement, fights, thefts and disrespect of community norms. The caste council has an elected president, secretary and treasurer, and no longer operates as a traditional caste council. They are an endogamous community, and cross cousin and parallel cousin marriages are prevalent. Traditionally marriages take place between the Lalgarh and Nilgarh sub-groups, but not with the Muslim Chhipi. These three sub-groups are further divided into \"biradaris\", clans which claim descent from a common ancestor. Marriages are preferred within the biradaris. Important biradaris include the Saiyed, Chipa, Chandelwal, Ghosi, Siddiqi, Usmani, Shaikh and Khatri.\n\nIn Rajasthan, the community claim to have come from Delhi during the rule of Mohammad Ghori. Tge actual rangrez are false claiming about their heritage by claiming afghan or rajpoot.They are just converts from obc or brahamin converts. They are found mainly in Alwar, Jaipur, Sikar and Sawai Madhopur districts. The community is sub-divided into several clans, known as gotras, the main ones being Khilji, Chauhan, Bagadiya, Tuglaq Singhania, Gori, Solanki, Aarbi, Salampariya and Sabuka, jajodia. Even muslim rajpoot and original pathan don't treat them as equal status to them. They maintain a system of clan exogamy, which a practice unique to the Rajasthan Rangrez. They want to marry into other castes like Qureshi, Muslim Rajputs, Shaikh and [[Pathan]but they are genetically a more dravidian race abd convert from obc and some brahamins .\nOf the Lowest people in mentality and they don't consider their women to marry them. The Rangrez are involved mainly involved in the trading and printing of clothes. Like in [[Uttar Pradesh]], the [[Rajasthan]] Rangrez live in multi-caste and multi-religious villages, but maintain a social distance with neighbouring [[Muslim]] [[caste]]s such as the [[Meo]] and [[Manihar]]., Behlim Rangrez is oldest gotra in [[Behlim]] in India. They came with Mahmood ghaznavi in his Indian campaign. Maximum Behaleem rangrez migrated for Pakistan during Independence (1947).\n\nIn [[Bihar]], they are found in the districts of [[Patna District|Patna]], [[Siwan District|Siwan]], [[Saran District|Saran]], [[Munger]], [[Gaya, India|Gaya]], [[Bhagalpur District|Bhagalpur]] and [[Muzaffarpur]]. Muzaffarpur has the second largest population of rangrez caste. They speak [[Urdu]], as well as [[Magadhi language|Magadhi]] and [[Bhojpuri]]. Their traditional occupation is textile dyeing and printing. Unlike Uttar Pradesh, there is no distinct caste of printers, both occupations being done by the Rangrez. The majority of the Rangrez in [[Bihar]] however no longer practice their traditional occupation. Many Rangrez are now petty businessmen, while some are cultivators.\n\nIn Gujarat, they are found in many districts like, Surat, Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Ankleshwar, Patan, wagda. some of them are doing the old traditional occupation. In vadodara they are situated at the time of Sir Sayajirao Gayakwad, Some of them are lived in Patan at the time of Siddhraj Jaysing more them 200 years. In Patan you can see the Place Name \"Rangrej Ki Khadaki.\" They are also called as \"Anjuman Patni Rangrez \". From our sources i came to know that we are coming from Ajmer at the time of Sir Sayajirao Gayakwad and some of them shifted in Patan or in south Gujarat. In Surat they are situated at the time of (between 1990-1993).\n\n\n[[Category:Muslim communities of India]]\n[[Category:Social groups of Pakistan]]\n[[Category:Social groups of Rajasthan]]\n[[Category:Social groups of Uttar Pradesh]]\n[[Category:Social groups of Bihar]]\n[[Category:Muslim communities of Bihar]]\n[[Category:Shaikh clans]]\n[[Category:Muhajir communities]]\n[[Category:Muslim communities of Rajasthan]]\n[[Category:Muslim communities of Uttar Pradesh]]\n[[Category:Muslim communities of Gujarat]]"}
{"id": "26206891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26206891", "title": "Namık Kemal", "text": "Namık Kemal\n\nNamık Kemal (21 December 1840 – 2 December 1888) was an Ottoman democrat, writer, intellectual, reformer, journalist, playwright, and political activist who was influential in the formation of the Young Ottomans and their struggle for governmental reform in the Ottoman Empire during the late Tanzimat period, which would lead to the First Constitutional Era in the Empire in 1876. Kemal was particularly significant for championing the notions of freedom and fatherland in his numerous plays and poems, and his works would have a powerful impact on the establishment of and future reform movements in Turkey, as well as other former Ottoman lands. He is often regarded as being instrumental in redefining Western concepts like natural rights and constitutional government.\n\nAn Albanian by origin, Namık Kemal was born in Tekirdağ (then part of the Ottoman Empire, today in Turkey) on 21 December 1840, to Fatma Zehra and Mustafa Asım Bey, the latter of whom was chief astrologer in the Sultan’s Palace. Since surnames or family names were not in use during the Ottoman Empire, \"Kemal\" was not his surname, but part of his first name. During his youth, Kemal traveled throughout the Ottoman Empire, staying in Constantinople, Kars, and Sofia, and studied a number of subjects, including poetry. In 1857, at the age of 17, Kemal worked in the \"Tercüme Odası\" (\"The Translation Office\") of the government. However, as a result of the political nature of his writings, Kemal was forced to leave this job by Grand Vizier Mehmed Emin Âli Pasha and so joined his friend and fellow Young Ottoman, İbrahim Şinasi, on his newspaper \"Tasvir-i Efkar\" (\"Herald of Ideas\"). Kemal worked on \"Tasvir-i Efkar\" until his exile and flight to Paris in 1867.\n\nThe Young Ottomans were a group of political activists whose members came principally from the young elite of Ottoman society. The major goal of this group was to institute political reform according to the Western ideas of representative government.\n\nAfter joining the Young Ottomans in 1862, Kemal continually wrote essays on the subjects of political, administrative, social, and foreign policy reform. In 1864, Kemal took over the pro-reform newspaper \"Tasvir-i Efkar\" after its previous owner and Kemal's friend İbrahim Şinasi was forced into exile. In 1868, after being forced to seek refuge in Paris, Kemal began to handle the publication of the newspaper \"Hürriyet\" (\"Liberty\"), which also espoused the purpose of the Young Ottomans. Kemal’s papers rapidly became a popular venue for Young Ottomans to express their anti-sultanate and pro-parliamentary sentiments. However, as a result of their outspokenness, many Young Ottomans were, like Kemal, forced to flee the empire and seek refuge in Western Europe.\n\nNamik Kemal admired the constitution of the French Third Republic, he summed up the Young Ottomans' political ideals as \"the sovereignty of the nation, the separation of powers, the responsibility of officials, personal freedom, equality, freedom of thought, freedom of press, freedom of association, enjoyment of property, sanctity of the home\".\n\nNamık Kemal was heavily influenced by Western conceptions of the relationship between the government and the people. As such, he and his compatriots spoke out against the movement to centralize the government being undertaken by Sultan Abdülaziz (ruled 1861–1876), and his advisors Mehmed Emin Âli Pasha and Mehmed Fuad Pasha. As a result of his criticism of the government, Namık Kemal was exiled from the Ottoman Empire in 1867 and fled to Paris, where many other exiled Young Ottomans had found refuge.\n\nIn 1869 or 1870, Kemal was allowed to return to Constantinople and proceeded to write for a number of Young Ottoman-run newspapers, and eventually published one of his own, \"Ibret\" (\"Admonition\"), in which he addressed more intellectual, social, and national subjects. In addition, it was after his return to Constantinople that Kemal wrote his most significant and influential work: the play \"Vatan Yahut Silistre\", or \"Silistra\", which translates to \"Fatherland.\" The play tells the story of an Ottoman soldier whose loyalty to his nation, and not his religion or allegiance to the Sultan, motivates him to defend the town of Silistra, Bulgaria from the Russians during the Crimean War. The impact these nationalist sentiments, unheard of in the Ottoman Empire prior to Kemal, had on the Turkish people was so profound that Kemal’s newspaper, \"Ibret\", was shut down, and Kemal himself was banished from the Empire for the second time. During this second exile, Kemal took refuge in Cyprus, in a building known as the Namık Kemal Dungeon in Famagusta, where he remained for three years.\n\nLike many Young Ottomans, Namık Kemal supported Murad V’s ascension to the throne after the abdication of Abdülaziz in 1876. However, their hope that Murad would institute the reforms they desired was dashed, for it rapidly became apparent that he was not suited for rule; his weak nerves and alcoholism leading to his abdication after only three months. Namık Kemal protested against Murad’s deposition, and continued to support Murad’s Western political perspectives, but ultimately, his pleas failed to have any effect and Murad V stepped down in 1876.\n\nDespite Murad’s abdication, the first Ottoman Parliament, the General Assembly of the Ottoman Empire, was established in 1876, largely as a result of pressure from the Young Ottomans, as well as Midhat Pasha’s political influence. However, while, at first, Abdul Hamid II, the sultan who succeeded Murad V, was willing to allow Parliament to function, he quickly decided that it was easier for him to enact reform by seizing autocratic powers instead of waiting for the approval of elected officials. In order to successfully implement his autocratic rule, Abdul Hamid II exiled many Young Ottomans, including Namık Kemal, who were critical of his decision to disregard the Parliament. Thus, for the third time, Kemal was removed from Constantinople by being forced into an administrative position in Chios, where he would die in 1888.\n\nNamık Kemal had an enormous influence on the formation of a Turkish national identity. Kemal’s focus on national loyalty, rather than loyalty to a monarch, influenced, as it was, by Western European ideals of self-government, contributed not only to the spread of democracy during the early 20th century, but also to the formation of the modern Republic of Turkey after the dissolution of the Ottoman Empire. The founder of modern Turkey, Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, often remarked that he had been influenced by Kemal’s writing as a young man, and that they had subsequently been a source of inspiration for his goals in the formation of the Turkish government and state.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4652145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4652145", "title": "Nothazai", "text": "Nothazai\n\nNothazai, is a Baloch tribe settled in Balochistan ,and Sindh provinces of Pakistan.\n"}
{"id": "5805018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5805018", "title": "Padampur, Rajasthan", "text": "Padampur, Rajasthan\n\nPadampur is a town and a municipality in Ganganagar district in the Indian state of Rajasthan. The city was named after a member of the Bikaner State royal family, Rajkumar Padam Singh, son of Raja Karan Singh (1631-1669).\n\nLocated in northwest of the Ganganagar district, the city has an average elevation of \n\nThere is no direct railway link to the city. The nearest main railway station is at Sri Ganganagar, approximately away, or Gajsingh Pur, which is away and connected by a four lane highway. There is 132 KV Grid substation which is being upgraded to 220 KV near the village. The public transport system of the Rajasthan Government provides basic transportation facility to the people.\n\nPadampur had a population of about 163000. Males constitute 53% of the population and females 47%. Padampur has an average literacy rate of 64%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 70%.\n\nThe demographics of Padampur show evidence of a large and ethnically diverse people. The area is mostly inhabited by Hindus and Sikhs. Major languages spoken are Punjabi and Bagri. The area continues to be the gateway for legal work for the nearby villages. the area has been categorized in 20 wards circle headed by ward member of that area selected by the residents of the ward.\n\nFollowing the construction of the Ganges Canal (Rajasthan), the main occupation of near by villages is agriculture, which is also the basis of the city's economy. . The main crops are wheat, mustard and cotton while other crops includes guar, bajra, sugar cane and grams. In recent years, kinnow (a hybrid citrus fruit derived from the \"orange\") has also gained prominence with farmers. The industries in the city are mostly based on agriculture. The people of the town are involved in their family businesses.\n\nThis city is based out of a agricultural area but has also been home to liqour Barron Ghanshyam Dass Sharma who also set up a distillery in Kanpur Uttar Pradesh and was famously known as the wine king.\nHe also had great influence on the politics of the area and political parties always took in his consideration before taking any decisions.\nHe was also seen as a saviour and Robinhood by the locals , he along with his business partner who was more like a brother to him, Gurmeet Singh Kooner for years he distributed free flour to the poor and made sure no poor in his area slept hungry. Every day thousands of tonnes of wheat was processed in his mill and the costs incurred were very high but still he continued this distribution system for years until some negative externalities disrupted this philanthropic work.\nAlong with this he made sure that money was never a barrier in attaining education.\nHe not only paid for the underprivileged's school fees but provided with school dresses and books as well and later on went on to set up one of the largest school and college of Sri Ganganagar Gurmeet Singh Ghanshyam Das college located in 25 BB .\nNot just a philanthropist but Mr.Sharma was also a very smart businessman with liquor vends in whole of Uttar Pradesh with distribution of alcohol in almost every district of Rajasthan .\nHe was the richest person to live in his district at a time ,he built this humongous empire with his brother like friend Gurmeet Singh Kooner.\nHe was there for the people when the government fell deaf ears and he helped the public in all ways he could would distribute sweets to the poor on all celebrations and also helped a lot of people in marrying of their daughters by giving them large sums of money charitably and buttermilk distribution was done on all days to the poor.\nHe never made a point to let out his charitable works and was thus never discussed about on a national level and loved the poor as his own and he also helped a lot of upcoming entrepreneurs by giving out large amounts of money and never took it back , he said that this was his part for the society .\nIt was this nature of him due to which all the people in the state loved him and respected him a lot.\nHe died on 22 March 2018 due to complications related to a cancer removal surgery in Mumbai after which his mortal remains were transported by a Private Plane to his home back in Padampur,Rajasthan.\nThe area and the whole state of Rajasthan greived this loss and it was a major loss for the people of his area as he was a father figure to many and a person who lived life on Morales and justice . Several politicians , beaurecrats and over 8000 people attended his death ceremony and he left behind 2 daughters and a son.\n\nThe climate of Padampur varies to extreme limits. The average temperature in summer reaches around 41° Celsius and in winter around 26 °C. The temperature shots up to 50° in June. The average annual rainfall is only 200 mm (7.9 in) per annum. Lack of rain and irrigation affect the income of farmers of the villages of Padampur.\n\nRajasthan patrika\nSeema Sandesh\nSandhya Border Times\nDainik Bhaskar\nDainik Jagran"}
{"id": "2406568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2406568", "title": "South African farm attacks", "text": "South African farm attacks\n\nIn attacks on South African farms, predominantly white South African farmers and black farm workers are subjected to violent crime including murder, assault and robbery. These attacks have been the subject of scrutiny by media and public figures in South Africa and abroad. There is insufficient data to reliably estimate a murder rate for South African farmers. South African government data indicated between 58 and 74 murders on farms annually in the period 2015–2017; these figures are broadly consistent with figures collected by the Transvaal Agricultural Union (TAU), a farmers union. Due to the problems associated with counting the number of South African farmers and farm murders, it is unclear whether farmers are at greater risk of being murdered than other South Africans.\n\nData released by the South African government in 2018 showed that the number of farm attacks had increased between 2012 and 2018, but that the number of murders on farms had decreased year by year during the period. Farming organisation AgriSA reported that the murder rate on farms had declined to the lowest level in twenty years, one-third of the level recorded in 1998.\n\nThe idea of a \"white genocide\" in South Africa is a frequent talking point among white nationalists worldwide. There are no reliable figures that suggest that white farmers are being targeted in particular or that they are at a disproportionate risk of being killed. Fact-checkers have widely identified the notion of a \"white genocide\" in South Africa as a falsehood or myth. The Government of South Africa, other analysts, and the right-wing Afrikaner rights group AfriForum maintain that farm attacks are part of a broader crime problem in South Africa and do not have a racial motivation.\n\nSouth African statutory law does not define a \"farm attack\" as a specific crime. Rather, the term is used to refer to a number of different crimes committed against persons specifically on commercial farms or smallholdings.\n\nAccording to the South African Police Service National Operational Co-ordinating Committee: \nAttacks on farms and smallholdings refer to acts aimed at the person of residents, workers and visitors to farms and smallholdings, whether with the intent to murder, rape, rob or inflict bodily harm. In addition, all actions aimed at disrupting farming activities as a commercial concern, whether for motives related to ideology, labour disputes, land issues, revenge, grievances, intimidation, should be included.\n\nThis definition excludes \"social fabric crimes\", that is those crimes committed by members of the farming community on one another, such as domestic or workplace violence, and focuses on outsiders entering the farms to commit specific criminal acts. Dina Pule, the safety and security Member of the Executive Council (MEC) for Mpumalanga Province, has disagreed with this definition and has said that \"farm attacks\" included only those cases \"where farm residents were murdered, and not cases of robberies or attempted murders\". Human Rights Watch has criticised the use of the term \"farm attacks\", which they regard as \"suggesting a terrorist or military purpose\", which they do not believe is the primary motivation for most farm attacks.\n\nThe South African government believes the chief motive for attacks is robbery. This position is shared by Afrikaner rights group Afriforum, which does not believe that there is a racial motive associated with most attacks. A Committee of Inquiry into Farm Attacks was appointed in 2001 by the National Commissioner of Police. The purpose of the committee was to \"inquire into the ongoing spate of attacks on farms, which include violent criminal acts such as murder, robbery, rape, to determine the motives and factors behind these attacks and to make recommendations on their findings\". Monetary theft occurred in most of the attacks, firearms were stolen in 23.0%, and 16.0% of farm attacks involved vehicular thefts. The committee noted that \"there is a common misconception that in a large proportion of farm attacks little is stolen\" and \"various items are stolen in by far the greater majority of cases, and, in those cases where nothing is taken, there is almost always a logical explanation, such as that the attackers had to leave quickly because help arrived.\"\n\nThe Natives' Land Act, adopted in 1913, awarded the ownership of 87 percent of land to South Africans of European descent. The modern discontent among black South Africans has caused populists to call for a confiscation of white-owned farms in the north. The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) party, founded by Julius Malema, demanded redistribution of the land and wealth. Human rights groups have stated that the extreme brutality may be intended to send a message of \"get out of our country\" to the general farming community. The numbers of farm attacks have been linked to increasing anti-white hate speech, particularly from the ruling party African National Congress. Judge Colin Lamont of the South Gauteng High Court ruled that Julius Malema's pop song, \"Shoot the Boer\" constituted hate speech and undermined the dignity of Afrikaners, and was discriminatory and harmful.\n\nJohan Burger of the Institute for Security Studies (ISS) has said that attacks were motivated not by race but by greed. The South African Police Service declared in 1998 that there had been no evidence at the time of systematic organised attacks, although the matter was being investigated by special investigators. Ernst Roets of AfriForum argued that in 2017 \"farm murders took place at an unusual frequency and were unusually cruel.\"\n\nAccording to Tshego's (Short G / Sterling) media reports, , approximately 3,158 – 3,811 South African farmers have been killed in these attacks. Self-reported data from the Transvaal Agricultural Union state that 1,544 people were killed in farm attacks from 1990 to 2012. In 2012, Reuters reported that the number of farmers of European descent had decreased by one third since 1997, and that news headlines about farm killings provided incentive for them to sell their properties.\nGideon Meiring, chairperson of the Transvaal Agricultural Union's safety and security committee, criticised the South African Police Service for failing to prevent farm attacks, stating that the police \"are not part of the solution but part of the bloody problem\". Meiring has assisted farming communities in setting up private armed patrols in their area. Kallie Kriel of AfriForum accused politicians, including Agriculture Minister Lulu Xingwana and her deputy Dirk du Toit, of inciting hatred against farmers, saying \"Those who inflame hate and aggression towards farmers have to be regarded as accomplices to the murders of farmers.\" In particular, Kriel condemned claims that violence against farm workers by farmers was endemic.\n\nJohan Burger of the Institute for Security Studies has said that the government's dismantling of the commando system had created a vacuum which the current rural safety plan was not addressing adequately. Although no reason was given for phasing out the system, observers believed that the government did so due to suspicions that the commandos were aligned to right-wing groups. Critics have said this is incorrect, as the system included both black South Africans as well as whites as troops.\n\nHuman Rights Watch has described a general trend of escalation in \"farm attacks\" since 1994, and noted a lack of government response to them. The HRW study however found the failures of the government response to be in its inadequacies to protect black farm residents. \"In practice, however, the plan has significantly increased insecurity for black residents of and visitors to commercial farming areas, as they have become the targets of sometimes indiscriminate \"anti-crime\" initiatives... In addition, the rural protection plan has largely failed to respond to crime committed against black farm residents, in particular crime committed by white farm owners.\"\n\nWhile the police are supposed to regularly visit commercial farms to ensure security, they say they cannot provide effective protection due to the wide areas that need to be covered and a lack of funding. 'Farmwatch' groups have been formed with the intention of filling this protection gap. These groups use radio to coordinate mutual assistance between farmers, local Commando volunteers, and private security companies. The particular mix of groups that operate has varied by area, with wealthier farmers being more likely to employ private security firms. The police and these groups are linked together as part of the Rural Protection Plan, created in 1997 by President Nelson Mandela.\n\nIn 2003 the government began disbanding commando units, saying they had been \"part of the apartheid state's security apparatus\". A 2013 study from the University of the Free State concluded that this disbanding compromised rural security, as police have prioritized South Africa's urban crime problems.\n\nA spike in violent attacks on farmers in February 2017 led to one of the country's largest prayer meetings being held on 22–23 April 2017 in Bloemfontein, attracting over 1,000,000 participants.\n\nFollowing the murder of Klapmuts farmer Joubert Conradie in October 2017, a protest convoy was organised on 30 October 2017. Known as #BlackMonday the convoy ran from Stellenbosch to Cape Town and attracted an estimated 10,000 protesters. The protest convoy was criticised by the South African Police Service for disrupting traffic. The protest convoy was also criticised by the African National Congress and the EFF for the display by some protesters of the apartheid era South African flag and alleged that the protesters were only concerned about the death of white farmers and did not include black members of the farming community. These photos were later confirmed to have been used out of context and inappropriately linked to the protests by Nickolaus Bauer, a reporter from eNCA. The eNCA released an official apology regarding the untruthful reporting. The Nelson Mandela Foundation also criticised the event for being polarising, describing the protesters' \"expressions of 'us' and 'them'\" as \"worrisome\".\n\nThe Suidlanders, a survivalist Afrikaner group preparing for a race war, and that believes in the prophesies of Siener van Rensburg has taken credit for publicising the issue internationally after undertaking a tour of the United States in 2017. In 2018, Afriforum leaders also embarked on a tour of the US to \"raise awareness\" about farm attacks in South Africa and land expropriation.\n\nAfter an Australian journalist was given a guided tour of South Africa by Afriforum, stories about attacks on white farmers appeared in News Corp Australia newspapers claiming that white South Africans were \"trapped like frogs in boiling water\" and that the South African government was \"notoriously corrupt\" and \"potentially complicit\" in the attacks and stating that the farmers were being \"persecuted\" because of their race.\n\nIn March 2018, Australia's Minister for Home Affairs Peter Dutton proposed fast-tracking White South African farmers as refugees, stating that \"they need help from a civilised country\", amid pressure by the South African Australian community for a special immigration intake for their family members. Right-wing marchers from the Australian Liberty Alliance in Perth carried signs exhorting the Australian government to \"let the right ones [white South Africans] in\". Dutton's proposal reportedly got support from some of his party's backbenchers and Liberal Democrat Senator David Leyonhjelm; however, Leyonhjelm later clarified that he thought that South African farmers could be admitted under existing family reunification and skilled visa programmes, and that he did not believe that they qualified as refugees. National Party of Australia MP Andrew Broad warned that the mass migration of South African farmers would result in food shortages in South Africa. Independent Senator Fraser Anning,who described the attackers as \"subhuman\", and MP Andrew Laming, joined marches organised by South Africans, with Anning claiming that a state-orchestrated \"genocide\" was underway.\n\nThe Australian High Commissioner was subjected to a démarche by the South African foreign ministry, which expressed offence at Dutton's statements, and demanded a retraction, stating that \"there is no reason for any government in the world to suspect that a section of South Africans is under danger from their own democratically elected government\". Afrikaner groups including AfriForum, as well as the Suidlanders, who took credit for Dutton's offer, rejected the idea of Afrikaners becoming refugees.\n\nAustralia's ruling Coalition MPs subsequently stated that white farmers were entitled to apply for humanitarian visas, without necessarily meeting the definition of \"refugees\", describing the situation as \"difficult\" and \"unique\" but without calling for a special category of visa to be created. The Australian government reportedly effectively retracted Dutton's offer, and responded to the démarche with a letter that \"satisfied\" the South African foreign ministry, with the South African government officially \"welcoming\" the letter, and stating again that \"...no one is being persecuted in South Africa, including white farmers\". However, Dutton reiterated his position that the farmers were persecuted, denied any retraction, and insisted that the Australian government was looking at \"several\" individual cases that may qualify for humanitarian visas, stating that his critics were \"dead to me\". In April 2018, it emerged that Dutton's department had previously blocked asylum applications by a white farmer, and another white South African woman on the basis that \"the vast majority of crimes against whites are not racially motivated\", and on the basis that there was no evidence of racial persecution, with the decisions upheld by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal.\n\nIn August 2018, Fox News host Tucker Carlson commented that the South African government had disproportionately targeted white farmers during its ongoing land reform efforts due to anti-white racism. He also criticized political \"elites\", who are purportedly concerned about racism, \"paying no attention\" to the \"racist government of South Africa\". However, BBC News, CBS News, Associated Press, \"PolitiFact\", \"The New York Times\" and \"The Wall Street Journal\" described Carlson's segment as false or misleading. President Ramaphosa had proposed a constitutional amendment that would allow some land to be expropriated without compensation; however, that amendment had not yet been voted upon. \n\nFollowing Carlson’s segment, President Donald Trump instructed Secretary of State Mike Pompeo to closely study the South Africa land and farm seizures and expropriations and the large scale killing of farmers, saying, “South African Government is now seizing land from white farmers”. Trump's tweet was denounced as \"'misinformed'\" by the South African government, which stated that it would address the matter through diplomatic channels. Political officers of the American embassy in South Africa investigated the claims, consulting farmers, police, and academics for further information. In a cable sent to the State Department, they concluded that there was \"no evidence that murders on farms specifically target white people or are politically motivated\" and that \"[s]ome journalists and lobby groups have simplified complex land disputes to serve their own ends\". The South African Afrikaner group AfriForum took credit for Carlson and Trump's statements, stating that it believed that its campaign to influence American politics had succeeded.\n\nThe idea of a \"white genocide\" in South Africa has been promoted by right-wing groups in South Africa and the United States and is a frequent talking point among white nationalists. There are no reliable figures that suggest that white farmers are at greater risk of being killed than the average South African. Some South African blacks have sought to \"retake\" land which they have made claims to, but South African police have stopped such \"ad hoc\" attempts at appropriating land.\n\nFact-checkers have widely identified the notion of a \"white genocide\" in South Africa as a falsehood or myth. The Government of South Africa, and other analysts, as well as the Afrikaner rights group AfriForum maintain that farm attacks are part of a broader crime problem in South Africa, and do not have a racial motivation.\n\n"}
{"id": "3052919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3052919", "title": "Sports ministry", "text": "Sports ministry\n\nA sports ministry is a religious-sponsored organization that use sport to promote links between the religion and the broader population.\n"}
{"id": "3680611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3680611", "title": "Tamahaq language", "text": "Tamahaq language\n\nTamahaq (\"Tahaggart Tamahaq\", \"Tamahaq Tahaggart\") is the only known Northern Tuareg language, spoken in Algeria, western Libya and northern Niger. It varies little from the Southern Tuareg Berber languages of the Aïr Mountains, Azawagh and Adagh. The differences mostly consist of sound substitutions, such as \"Tamahaq\" instead of \"Tamajaq\" or \"Tamasheq\".\n\nThere are three main varieties of Tamahaq:\n\nAccording to Blench (2006), Tahaggart and Ghat are distinct Tuareg languages.\n"}
{"id": "52549787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52549787", "title": "Tampon tax", "text": "Tampon tax\n\nA tampon tax is a popular term used to call attention to the fact that tampons—and other feminine hygiene products—are subject to value-added tax, unlike the tax exemption status granted to other products considered basic necessities. Proponents of tax exemption argue that tampons, sanitary napkins, menstrual cups and comparable products constitute basic, unavoidable necessities for women and thus should be made tax exempt.\n\nProponents argue that feminine hygiene products serving the basic menstrual cycle should be classified alongside other unavoidable, tax exempt necessities, such as groceries and personal medical items. The BBC estimates that women—half of the global population—need to use feminine hygiene products for about a week each month for about 30 years. While sales tax policy varies across jurisdictions, these products were typically taxed at the same rate as non-essential goods, such as in the United States, while other countries, such as the United Kingdom and Ireland, reduced or eliminated their general consumption tax on sanitary products. When asked about equivalent exemptions for men, proponents argue that no male products, condoms included, are comparable to feminine hygiene products, since menstruation is biological and \"feminine hygiene is not a choice\". As the vast majority of consumers of feminine hygiene products are women, the increased cost has been criticized as being discriminatory against women. The tampon tax is not a special tax levied directly on feminine hygiene products.\n\nAfter the tax in Canada was removed mid-2015, women began protesting in other countries later that year. On July 21, 2018, India eliminated the Goods and Services Tax (GST) of 12% from sanitary napkins.\n\n\nThe United Kingdom has levied a value-added tax on sanitary products since it joined the European Economic Community in 1973. This rate was reduced to 5% specifically for sanitary products in 2000 with lobbying from Member of Parliament Dawn Primarolo saying that this reduction was \"about fairness, and doing what we can to lower the cost of a necessity.\" This is the lowest rate possible under the European Union's value added tax law, which as of 2015 does not allow zero rates. The UK Independence Party raised the issue in the 2015 general election with promises to withdraw from the European Union and allow the zero rate. Prime Minister David Cameron commented, when prompted, that the tampon tax campaign was \"long-standing\" and a complicated issue within the European Union. In England, one in ten women between 14 and 21 cannot afford menstrual management products.\n\nLaura Coryton led a \"Stop taxing periods, period\" campaign with an online petition to have the European Union remove the value-added tax for sanitary products. George Osborne mentioned the petition by name in his 2015 Autumn Statement pledge to end the tampon tax at the European Union level. The petition platform's CEO cited the campaign as an example of successful clicktivism, with over 320,000 signatures. In March 2016, Parliament created legislation to eliminate the tampon VAT. It was expected to go into effect by April 2018 but did not do so; several British women protested for it publicly while displaying blood stains from their periods. On the 3rd October 2018, new EU VAT rules that will allow the UK to stop taxing sanitary products were approved by the European Parliament.\n\nIn July 2017, a pilot program began in Scotland to have free sanitary products available at schools and food banks for women who cannot afford them. The pilot scheme was launched for six months in Aberdeen, Scotland, with £42,500 of funding from the devolved Scottish Government in order to address the growing scandal of \"period poverty\". It was believed 1,000 girls would benefit from the scheme, as there were reports of teenage girls using tissues, toilet roll, torn T-shirts and even newspaper as makeshift sanitary products, with some girls even skipping school altogether. It was decided to launch the scheme to improve attainment and school attendance, as well as improve confidence amongst teenage girls during their period; and Scotland is believed to be the first country in the world to give out free sanitary products as part of a government-sponsored initiative.\n\nFurther to this half year pilot program, Scotland's opposition Labour Party intends to introduce a bill to make this permanent. Scotland is the first country to ban period poverty.\n\nA study by the WHO and UNICEF showed that one out of five women in Scotland have been forced to improvise with items including toilet paper and old clothes due to the high cost of commercial products.\n\nIn the United States, almost all states tax \"tangible individual property\" but exempt non-luxury \"necessities\": groceries, prescriptions, prosthetics, agriculture supplies, and sometimes clothes—the exemptions vary between states. Five states do not have a state sales tax (Alaska, Delaware, Montana, New Hampshire, and Oregon), and , ten states specifically exempted essential hygiene products (Connecticut, Florida, Illinois, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, New Jersey, New York, Nevada, and Pennsylvania).\n\nIn the U.S., most states charge sales tax for women's pads and tampons. Ten states have dropped the tampon tax — Minnesota, Illinois, Nevada, Pennsylvania, New York, Massachusetts, Maryland, New Jersey, Connecticut and Florida, according to NPR and CNN. Seven other states have introduced such legislation, most recently Nebraska, Virginia and Arizona. In January 2018, California rejected a proposal to eliminate tampon tax.\n\nMany federal assistance programs such as SNAP (Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program) and WIC (Women, Infants and Children) don’t allow the use of an EBT for products such as pads or tampons despite the products' classification as medical devices.  The IRS does not classify female products as medical devices, thus blocking women from buying them with pre-tax dollars in both flexible spending accounts and health savings accounts. \n\nThere has been some changes to the tampon taxes but most of these changes are state level or by city. On a smaller scale, individual cities have also changed their laws in favor of eliminating the tampon tax. \n\nCalifornia Assemblywoman Cristina Garcia reported that California women each pay roughly US$7 per month over 40 years, constituting US$20 million in annual taxes. Garcia and Ling Ling Chang proposed a bill to remove the tampon tax in early 2016. At this period, only a handful of the country's states exempted tampons, and several others had no state sales tax. Garcia held that women were taxed \"for being women\" and bore an economic burden for having no other choice but to buy these products. Garcia and Chang added that the tax was \"regulatory discrimination\" that disproportionately affected poor women and women of color, and that it likely persisted due to social taboos against discussing menstruation. Both houses of the California State Legislature voted to exempt tampons from taxation in June 2016, but the bill was vetoed by the state's governor, Jerry Brown, three months later.\n\nCalifornia Gov. Jerry Brown vetoed AB-1561 due to the potential loss of money in taxing feminine hygiene products. In response, Cristina Garcia co-authored AB-0479: Common Cents Tax Reform Act with Lorena Gonzalez Fletcher, which is a new measure outlining a solution to offset the feminine product and diaper tax exemption by increasing the tax on hard liquor.\n\nIn 2017, California State Legislature passed AB 10 requiring public middle schools and high schools where at least 40% of students meet the federal poverty level to stock half of the restrooms with free tampons and sanitary napkins. The law was passed in an effort to eliminate the cost burden and keep low-income students in schools during their menstrual cycle.\n\nCompanies involved in supplying the necessary feminine hygiene products (tampons and pads) for complete menstrual care in the restrooms of schools include WAXIE and Hospeco. They also supply various options for menstrual product dispensers that have a time delay mechanism to prevent products from being overused and/or abused.\n\nIn July 2016, New York State exempted feminine hygiene products from taxation, reducing the state's tax revenue by an estimated US$10 million annually. Connecticut and Illinois also removed their tax in 2016, with Florida following suit in 2017.\n\nA 2018 empirical study on New Jersey's 2005 tax break on menstrual products found that \"repealing tampon taxes removes an unequal tax burden and could make menstrual hygiene products more accessible for low-income consumers.\" The study utilized data from more than 16,000 purchases in 2004-2006 made in New Jersey, Delaware, Connecticut, Maryland, and Pennsylvania, using these latter nearby states as the control group. Through a differences-in-differences approach, they found that after the repeal, consumer prices on menstrual products decreased by 7.3%, relative to the control states. This was greater than the 6.9% sales tax, suggesting that the consumers benefitted from the tax break. Upon further analysis, the study also found that the decrease in consumer prices was greater for low-income consumers than high-income consumers (3.9% decrease versus 12.4% decrease). This suggests that low-income consumers received the most benefit from the tax break, while high-income consumers shared the benefit with producers of menstrual products.\n\nSupporters of the exemption of said taxes are calling their efforts \"menstrual equity\", explaining it as a social movement that strives for feminine products like tampons to be considered necessities. Things that are considered necessities, for example toilet paper, are not taxed. Activists are often being led by members of government. Councilwomen Julissa Ferreras-Copeland led a movement with a tampon tax pilot project ultimately providing free pads and tampons at a local high school in Queens, New York. Ferreras-Copeland's effort has now been expanded into 25 different schools around New York City. Other democrats including Ydanis Rodriguez and council speaker Melissa Mark-Viverito are advocating for state legislature to stop taxing sanitary products. \n\nFree the Tampon, an advocate for free menstrual products estimates that it would cost less than $5 a year per user to provide tampons and pads in restrooms at schools and businesses.\n\n"}
{"id": "56379975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56379975", "title": "The Frankenstein Project (sculpture)", "text": "The Frankenstein Project (sculpture)\n\nThe Frankenstein Project is a contemporary sculpture by Tony Stallard, located on the Blackpool Promenade in Lancashire, England.\n\nThe work was permanently installed in 2001, and consists of a divers decompression chamber. Inside the chamber is a blue neon light which illuminates the skeletons and killer whale skull inside the chamber.\n\nThe Frankenstein Project was executed as part of a four-part art scheme commissioned by Blackpool Council and a number of other art companies at a cost of £500,000, under the name of the Great Promenade Show. Implementation of the piece took six years in total and was Stallard's biggest project to date. Weighing seven tonnes, the piece consists of twenty-four foot long gas tank, donated by British Gas, with a replica killer whale inside. Portholes on the side of the tank allow visitors to peer inside the illuminated tank.\n\nStallard acknowledged that the piece would invite debate and the piece did indeed draw the most varied critical response. Despite being one of four new features on the promenade, The Frankenstein Project received most reaction.\n\nIn addition, the sculpture was the victim of persistent vandal attacks which required significant repairs and eventually caused the site of the artwork to be redeveloped and moved back to its location.\n\n"}
{"id": "20561010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20561010", "title": "The Hurricane Poster Project", "text": "The Hurricane Poster Project\n\nThe Hurricane Poster Project was an international collaboration of artists and designers to raise money for the victims of Hurricane Katrina. Over 180 posters commemorating the event were designed, produced and sold online, raising more than $50,000. The profits were donated to the Red Cross. The project was organized and curated by Leif Steiner, creative director for Moxie Sozo. In 2007, Leif Steiner was awarded the Circle of Humanitarians Award, the American Red Cross' highest honor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27868897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27868897", "title": "Torsten Rudenschöld", "text": "Torsten Rudenschöld\n\nTorsten Rudenschöld (March 30, 1798 - May 27, 1859) was a Swedish educator and social reformer.\n\n"}
{"id": "5679728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5679728", "title": "UK Charity Awards", "text": "UK Charity Awards\n\nThe UK Charity Awards are annual awards for outstanding achievements within the UK not-for-profit sector. Categories reflect the management of charities and not-for-profits, and awards are made to individuals, departments and whole organizations.\n\nPast individual winners have included Lord Rix and Richard Curtis, both for the Lifetime Achievement Award.\n\nThe event is hosted Charity Times magazine, with help from BBC Training and Development and The Community Channel, as well as commercial sponsors.\n\n"}
{"id": "89775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89775", "title": "Virginity", "text": "Virginity\n\nVirginity is the state of a person who has never engaged in sexual intercourse. There are cultural and religious traditions that place special value and significance on this state, predominantly towards unmarried females, associated with notions of personal purity, honor and worth.\n\nLike chastity, the concept of virginity has traditionally involved sexual abstinence. The concept of virginity usually involves moral or religious issues and can have consequences in terms of social status and in interpersonal relationships. Although virginity has social implications and had significant legal implications in some societies in the past, it has no legal consequences in most societies today.\n\nThe term \"virgin\" originally only referred to sexually inexperienced women, but has evolved to encompass a range of definitions, as found in traditional, modern and ethical concepts. Heterosexual individuals may or may not consider loss of virginity to occur only through penile-vaginal penetration, while people of other sexual orientations often include oral sex, anal sex or mutual masturbation in their definitions of losing one's virginity. The social implications of virginity still remain in many societies and can have varying effects on an individual's social agency based upon location.\n\nThe word \"virgin\" comes via Old French \"virgine\" from the root form of Latin , genitive , meaning literally \"maiden\" or \"virgin\"—a sexually intact young woman or \"sexually inexperienced woman\". As in Latin, the English word is also often used with wider reference, by relaxing the age, gender or sexual criteria. In this case, more-mature women can be virgins (The Virgin Queen), men can be virgins, and potential initiates into many fields can be colloquially termed \"virgins\"; for example, a skydiving \"virgin\". In the latter usage, \"virgin\" means uninitiated.\n\nThe Latin word likely arose by analogy with a suit of lexemes based on , meaning \"to be green, fresh or flourishing\", mostly with botanic reference—in particular, meaning \"strip of wood\".\n\nThe first known use of \"virgin\" in English is found in a Middle English manuscript held at Trinity College, Cambridge of about 1200:\n\nIn this, and many later contexts, the reference is specifically Christian, alluding to members of the Ordo Virginum (Order of Virgins), which applies to the consecrated virgins known to have existed since the early church from the writings of the Church Fathers.\n\nBy about 1300, the word was expanded to apply also to Mary, the mother of Jesus, hence to sexual virginity explicitly:\n\nFurther expansion of the word to include virtuous (or naïve) young women, irrespective of religious connection, occurred over about another century, until by about 1400 we find:\n\nThese are three of the eighteen definitions of \"virgin\" from the first edition of the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" (\"OED1\", pages 230–232). Most of the \"OED1\" definitions, however, are similar.\n\nThe German word for \"virgin\" is \"Jungfrau\". \"Jungfrau\" literally means \"young woman\", but is not used in this sense, anymore. Instead \"junge Frau\" can be used. \"Jungfrau\" is the word reserved specifically for sexual inexperience. As \"Frau\" means \"woman\", it suggests a female referent. Unlike English, German also has a specific word for a male virgin \"Jüngling\" \"(Youngling)\". It is, however, dated and rarely used. \"Jungfrau\", with some masculine modifier, is more typical, as evidenced by the film \"The 40-Year-Old Virgin\", about a 40-year-old male virgin, titled in German, \"Jungfrau (40), männlich, sucht…\". German also distinguishes between young women and girls, who are denoted by the word \"Mädchen\". The English cognate \"maid\" was often used to imply virginity, especially in poetry - e.g. Maid Marian, the love interest of the legendary outlaw Robin Hood in English folklore.\n\nGerman is not the only language to have a specific name for male virginity; in French, male virgins are called \"puceau\". The Greek word for \"virgin\" is \"parthenos\" (παρθένος, see Parthenon). Although typically applied to women, like English, it is also applied to men, in both cases specifically denoting absence of sexual experience. When used of men, it does not carry a strong association of \"never-married\" status. However, in reference to women, historically, it was sometimes used to refer to an engaged woman—\"parthenos autou\" (παρθένος αὐτού, his virgin) = his fiancée as opposed to \"gunē autou\" (γυνή αὐτού, his woman) = his wife. This distinction is necessary due to there being no specific word for wife (or husband) in Greek.\n\nBy extension from its primary sense, the idea that a virgin has a sexual \"blank slate\", unchanged by any past intimate connection or experience, can imply that the person is of unadulterated purity.\n\nThe concept of virginity has significance only in a particular social, cultural and moral context. According to Hanne Blank, \"virginity reflects no known biological imperative and grants no demonstrable evolutionary advantage.\" Although virginity has historically been correlated with purity and worth, many feminist scholars believe that it is a myth. They argue that no standardized medical definition of virginity exists, there is no scientifically verifiable proof of virginity loss, and sexual intercourse results in no change in personality. Jessica Valenti, feminist writer and author of \"The Purity Myth\", reasons that the concept of virginity is also dubious because of the many individual definitions of virginity loss, and that valuing virginity has placed a woman's morality \"between her legs.\" She critiques the notion that sexual activity has any influence on morality or ethics.\n\nThe urge of wanting one's spouse or partner to be never engaged in sexual activities is called \"virgin complex\". A person may also have a virgin complex directed towards oneself.\n\nThere are varying understandings as to which types of sexual activities result in loss of virginity. The traditional view is that virginity is only lost through vaginal penetration by the penis, consensual or non-consensual, and that acts of oral sex, anal sex, mutual masturbation or other forms of non-penetrative sex do not result in loss of virginity. A person who engages in such acts without having engaged in vaginal intercourse is often regarded among heterosexuals and researchers as \"technically a virgin\". By contrast, gay or lesbian individuals often describe such acts as resulting in loss of virginity. Some gay males regard penile-anal penetration as resulting in loss of virginity, but not oral sex or non-penetrative sex, and lesbians may regard oral sex or fingering as loss of virginity. Some lesbians who debate the traditional definition consider whether or not non-penile forms of vaginal penetration constitute virginity loss, while other gay men and lesbians assert that the term \"virginity\" is meaningless to them because of the prevalence of the traditional definition. Whether a person can lose his or her virginity through rape is also subject to debate, with the belief that virginity can only be lost through consensual sex being prevalent in some studies. In a study by researcher and author Laura M. Carpenter, many men and women discussed how they felt virginity could not be taken through rape. They described losing their virginities in one of three ways: \"as a gift, stigma or part of the process.\"\n\nCarpenter states that despite perceptions of what determines virginity loss being as varied among gay men and lesbians as they are among heterosexuals, and in some cases more varied among the former, that the matter has been described to her as people viewing sexual acts relating to virginity loss as \"acts that correspond to your sexual orientation,\" which suggests the following: \"So if you're a gay male, you're supposed to have anal sex because that's what gay men do. And if you're a gay woman, then you're supposed to have oral sex, because that's what gay women do. And so those become, like markers, for when virginity is lost.\"\n\nThe concept of \"technical virginity\" or sexual abstinence through oral sex is popular among teenagers. For example, oral sex is common among adolescent girls who fellate their boyfriends not only to preserve their virginity, but also to create and maintain intimacy or to avoid pregnancy. In a 1999 study published in \"JAMA\" (the \"Journal of the American Medical Association\"), the definition of sex was examined based on a 1991 random sample of 599 college students from 29 US states; it found that 60% said oral-genital contact (like fellatio, cunnilingus) did not constitute having sex. Stephanie Sanders of the Kinsey Institute, co-author of the study, stated, \"That's the 'technical virginity' thing that's going on.\" She and other researchers titled their findings \"Would You Say You 'Had Sex' If ...?\" By contrast, in a study released in 2008 by the Guttmacher Institute, author of the findings Laura Lindberg stated that there \"is a widespread belief that teens engage in nonvaginal forms of sex, especially oral sex, as a way to be sexually active while still claiming that technically, they are virgins\", but that her study drew the conclusion that \"research shows that this supposed substitution of oral sex for vaginal sex is largely a myth\".\n\nA 2003 study published in the \"Canadian Journal of Human Sexuality\" focusing on definitions of having sex and noting studies concerning university students from the United States, the United Kingdom, and Australia reported that \"[w]hile the vast majority of respondents (more than 97%) in these three studies included penile-vaginal intercourse in their definition of sex, fewer (between 70% and 90%) respondents considered penile-anal intercourse to constitute having sex\" and that \"oral-genital behaviours were defined as sex by between 32% and 58% of respondents\". A different study by the Kinsey Institute sampled 484 people, ranging in ages 18–96. \"Nearly 95 percent of people in the study agreed that penile-vaginal intercourse meant 'had sex.' But the numbers changed as the questions got more specific.\" 11 percent of respondents based \"had sex\" on whether the man had achieved an orgasm, concluding that absence of an orgasm does not constitute \"having had\" sex. \"About 80 percent of respondents said penile-anal intercourse meant 'had sex.' About 70 percent of people believed oral sex was sex.\"\n\nVirginity pledges (or abstinence pledges) made by heterosexual teenagers and young adults may also include the practice of \"technical virginity\". In a peer-reviewed study by sociologists Peter Bearman and Hannah Brueckner, which looked at virginity pledgers five years after their pledge, they found that the pledgers have similar proportions of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) and at least as high proportions of anal and oral sex as those who have not made a virginity pledge, and deduced that there was substitution of oral and anal sex for vaginal sex among the pledgers. However, the data for anal sex without vaginal sex reported by males did not reflect this directly.\n\nEarly loss of virginity has been shown to be linked to factors such as level of education, independence, biological factors like age and gender, and social factors such as parental supervision or religious affiliation, with the most common being sociodemographic variables. Along with this, sexual abuse has also been shown to have a link to later risky sexual behaviors and a younger age of voluntary sexual intercourse. Sexual initiation at an earlier age has been associated with: less frequency of condom use, less satisfaction and more frequency of non-autonomous reasons for that first sexual encounter. Adverse effects for losing virginity at an early age include lower chance of economic stability, lower level of education, social isolation, marital disruption and greater medical consequences. These medical consequences consist of an increase in STDs, cervical cancer, pelvic inflammatory disease, fertility and unwanted pregnancies.\n\nThe first act of sexual intercourse by a female is commonly considered within many cultures to be an important personal milestone. Its significance is reflected in expressions such as \"saving oneself\", \"losing one's virginity,\" \"taking someone's virginity\" and sometimes as \"deflowering.\" The occasion is at times seen as the end of innocence, integrity, or purity, and the sexualization of the individual.\n\nTraditionally, there was a cultural expectation that a female would not engage in premarital sex and would come to her wedding a virgin and that she would \"give up\" her virginity to her new husband in the act of consummation of the marriage. Feminine sexual practices have revolved around the idea of females waiting to have sex until they are married.\n\nSome females who have been previously sexually active (or their hymen has been otherwise damaged) may undergo a surgical procedure, called hymenorrhaphy or hymenoplasty, to repair or replace her hymen, and cause vaginal bleeding on the next intercourse as proof of virginity (see below). In some cultures, an unmarried female who is found not to be a virgin, whether by choice or as a result of a rape, can be subject to shame, ostracism or even an honor killing. In those cultures, female virginity is closely interwoven with personal or even family honor, especially those known as shame societies, in which the loss of virginity before marriage is a matter of deep shame. In some parts of Africa, the myth that sex with a virgin can cure HIV/AIDS continues to prevail, leading to girls and women being raped. In other societies, such as many modern-day Western cultures, lack of sexual abstinence before marriage is not as socially stigmatized as it may be in the formerly mentioned cultures.\n\nVirginity is regarded as a valuable commodity in some cultures. In the past, within most societies a woman's options for marriage were largely dependent upon her status as a virgin. Those women who were not virgins experienced a dramatic decrease in opportunities for a socially advantageous marriage, and in some instances the premarital loss of virginity eliminated their chances of marriage entirely. Modern virginity auctions, like that of Natalie Dylan, are discussed in the 2013 documentary \"How to Lose Your Virginity.\" \n\nThe Bible required a man who seduced or raped a virgin to pay her bride price to her father and marry the girl. In some countries, until the late 20th century, a woman could sue a man who had taken her virginity but did not marry her. In some languages, the compensation for these damages are called \"wreath money\".\n\nSome cultures require proof of a bride's virginity before her marriage. This has traditionally been tested by the presence of an intact hymen, which was verified by either a physical examination (usually by a physician, who provided a \"certificate of virginity\") or by a \"proof of blood,\" which refers to vaginal bleeding that results from the tearing of the hymen after the first sanctioned sexual contact. In some cultures, the nuptial blood-spotted bed sheet would be displayed as proof of both consummation of marriage and that the bride had been a virgin.\n\nCoerced medical virginity tests are practiced in many regions of the world, but are today condemned as a form of abuse of women. According to the World Health Organization (WHO): \"Sexual violence encompasses a wide range of acts including (...) violent acts against the sexual integrity of women, including female genital mutilation and \"obligatory inspections for virginity\"\".\n\nResearchers stress that the presence or absence of a hymen is not a reliable indicator of whether or not a female has been vaginally penetrated. The hymen is a thin film of membrane situated just inside the vulva which can partially occlude the entrance to the vaginal canal. It is flexible and can be stretched or torn during first engagement in vaginal intercourse. However, a hymen may also be broken during physical activity. Many women possess such thin, fragile hymens, easily stretched and already perforated at birth, that the hymen can be broken in childhood without the girl even being aware of it, often through athletic activities. For example, a slip while riding a bicycle may, on occasion, result in the bicycle's saddle-horn entering the introitus just far enough to break the hymen. Further, there is the case of women with damaged hymens undergoing hymenorrhaphy (or hymenoplasty) to repair or replace their hymens, and cause vaginal bleeding on the next intercourse as proof of virginity. Others consider the practice to be virginity fraud or unnecessary. Some call themselves born-again virgins.\n\nThere is a common belief that some women are born without a hymen, but some doubt has been cast on this by a recent study. It is likely that almost all women are born with a hymen, but not necessarily ones that will experience a measurable change during first experience of vaginal intercourse.\n\nSome medical procedures occasionally may require a woman's hymen to be opened (hymenotomy).\n\nHistorically, and in modern times, female virginity has been regarded as more significant than male virginity; the perception that sexual prowess is fundamental to masculinity has lowered the expectation of male virginity without lowering the social status. For example, in some Islamic cultures, though premarital sex is forbidden in the Quran with regard to both men and women, unmarried women who have been sexually active or raped may be subject to name-calling, shunning, or family shame, while unmarried men who have lost their virginities are not. Among various countries or cultures, males are expected or encouraged to want to engage in sexual activity, and to be more sexually experienced. Not following these standards often leads to teasing and other such ridicule from their male peers. A 2003 study by the Guttmacher Institute showed that in most countries most men have experienced sexual intercourse by their 20th birthdays.\n\nMale sexuality is seen as something that is innate and competitive and displays a different set of cultural values and stigmas from female sexuality and virginity. In one study, scholars Wenger and Berger found that male virginity is understood to be real by society, but it has been ignored by sociological studies.\n\nWithin American culture in particular, male virginity has been made an object of embarrassment and ridicule in films such as \"Summer of '42\", \"American Pie\" and \"The 40-Year-Old Virgin\", with the male virgin typically being presented as socially inept. Such attitudes have resulted in some men keeping their status as a virgin a secret.\n\nThe prevalence of virginity varies from culture to culture. In cultures which place importance on a female's virginity at marriage, the age at which virginity is lost is in effect determined by the age at which marriages would normally take place in those cultures, as well as the minimum marriage age set by the laws of the country where the marriage takes place.\n\nIn a cross-cultural study, \"At what age do women and men have their first sexual intercourse?\" (2003), Michael Bozon of the French Institut national d'études démographiques found that contemporary cultures fall into three broad categories. In the first group, the data indicated families arranging marriage for daughters as close to puberty as possible with significantly older men. Age of men at sexual initiation in these societies is at later ages than that of women, but is often extra-marital. This group included sub-Saharan Africa (the study listed Mali, Senegal and Ethiopia). The study considered the Indian subcontinent to also fall into this group, although data was only available from Nepal.\n\nIn the second group, the data indicated families encouraged daughters to delay marriage, and to abstain from sexual activity before that time. However, sons are encouraged to gain experience with older women or prostitutes before marriage. Age of men at sexual initiation in these societies is at lower ages than that of women. This group includes Latin cultures, both from southern Europe (Portugal, Greece and Romania are noted) and from Latin America (Brazil, Chile, and the Dominican Republic). The study considered many Asian societies to also fall into this group, although matching data was only available from Thailand.\n\nIn the third group, age of men and women at sexual initiation was more closely matched. There were two sub-groups, however. In non-Latin, Catholic countries (Poland and Lithuania are mentioned), age at sexual initiation was higher, suggesting later marriage and reciprocal valuing of male and female virginity. The same pattern of late marriage and reciprocal valuing of virginity was reflected in Singapore and Sri Lanka. The study considered China and Vietnam to also fall into this group, although data were not available.\n\nFinally, in northern and eastern European countries, age at sexual initiation was lower, with both men and women involved in sexual activity before any union formation. The study listed Switzerland, Germany and the Czech Republic as members of this group.\n\nAccording to a 2001 UNICEF survey, in 10 out of 12 developed nations with available data, more than two thirds of young people have had sexual intercourse while still in their teens. In Denmark, Finland, Germany, Iceland, Norway, the United Kingdom and the United States, the proportion is over 80%. In Australia, the United Kingdom and the United States, approximately 25% of 15-year-olds and 50% of 17-year-olds have had sex. A 2002 international survey sought to study the sexual behavior of teenagers. 33,943 students aged 15, from 24 countries, completed a self-administered, anonymous, classroom survey, consisting of a standard questionnaire, developed by the HBSC (Health Behaviour in School-aged Children) international research network. The survey revealed that the majority of the students were still virgins (they had no experience of sexual intercourse), and, among those who were sexually active, the majority (82%) used contraception. In a 2005 Kaiser Family Foundation study of US teenagers, 29% of teens reported feeling pressure to have sex, 33% of sexually active teens reported \"being in a relationship where they felt things were moving too fast sexually\", and 24% had \"done something sexual they didn’t really want to do\". Several polls have indicated peer pressure as a factor in encouraging both girls and boys to have sex.\n\nSome studies suggest that people commence sexual activity at an earlier age than previous generations. However, the 2005 Durex Global sex survey found that people worldwide are having sex for the first time at an average age of 17.3, ranging from 15.6 in Iceland to 19.8 in India (though evidence has shown that the average age is not a good indicator of sexual initiation, and that percentages of sexually initiated youth at each age are preferred). A 2008 survey of UK teenagers between the ages of 14 and 17 (conducted by YouGov for Channel 4), showed that only 6% of these teenagers intended to wait until marriage before having sex.\n\nAccording to a 2011 CDC study, in the 15-to-19-year-old age group 43 percent of males and 48 percent of females in the United States reported never having an opposite-sex partner.\n\nThe rates of teenage pregnancy vary and range from 143 per 1000 girls in some sub-Saharan African countries to 2.9 per 1000 in South Korea. The rate for the United States is 52.1 per 1000, the highest in the developed world – and about four times the European Union average. The teenage pregnancy rates between countries must take into account the level of general sex education available and access to contraceptive options. Many Western countries have instituted sex education programs, the main objective of which is to reduce such pregnancies and STDs. In 1996, the United States federal government shifted the objective of sex education towards \"abstinence-only sex education\" programs, promoting sexual abstinence before marriage (i.e., virginity) and prohibiting information on birth control and contraception. In 2004, President George W. Bush announced a Five-Year Global HIV/AIDS Strategy, also known as the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), which committed the U.S. to provide $15 billion over five years toward AIDS relief in 15 countries in Africa and the Caribbean, and in Vietnam. A part of the funding was earmarked specifically for \"abstinence-only-until-marriage\" programs.\n\nIn one peer-reviewed study about virginity pledges, male pledgers were 4.1 times more likely to remain virgins by age 25 than those who did not pledge (25% vs 6%), and estimated that female pledgers were 3.5 times more likely to remain virgins by age 25 than those who did not pledge (21% vs 6%).\n\nSome cultural anthropologists argue that romantic love and sexual jealousy are universal features of human relationships. Social values related to virginity reflect both sexual jealousy and ideals of romantic love, and appear to be deeply embedded in human nature.\n\nPsychology explores the connection between thought and behavior. Seeking understanding of social (or anti-social) behaviors includes sexual behavior. Joan Kahn and Kathryn London studied U.S. women married between 1965 and 1985 to see if virginity at marriage influenced risk of divorce. In this study, women who were virgins at the time of marriage were shown to have less marital upset. It was shown that when observable characteristics were controlled, women who were non-virgins at the time of marriage had a higher risk for divorce. However, it was also shown that the link between premarital sex and the risk of divorce were attributed to prior unobserved differences, such as deviating from norms.\n\nA study conducted by Smith and Schaffer found that someone's first sexual experience has been linked to their sexual performance for years to come. Participants whose first intercourse was pleasant showed more satisfaction in their current sex lives. A different study showed that when compared with virgins, nonvirgins have been shown to have higher levels of independence, less desire for achievement, more criticism from society and a greater level of deviance.\n\nHuman sexual activity, like many other kinds of activity engaged in by humans, is generally influenced by social rules that are culturally specific and vary widely. These social rules are referred to as sexual morality (what can and can not be done by society's rules) and sexual norms (what is and is not expected). There are a number of groups within societies promoting their views of sexual morality in a variety of ways, including through sex education, religious teachings, seeking commitments or virginity pledges, and other means.\n\nMost countries have laws which set a minimum marriage age, with the most common age being 18 years, reduced to 16 in \"special circumstances\", typically when the female partner is pregnant, but the actual age at first marriage can be considerably higher. Laws also prescribe the minimum age at which a person is permitted to engage in sex, commonly called the age of consent. Social (and legal) attitudes toward the appropriate age of consent have drifted upwards in modern times. For example, while ages from 10 to 13 were typically acceptable in Western countries during the mid-19th century, the end of the 19th century and the beginning of the 20th century were marked by changing attitudes resulting in raising the ages of consent to ages generally ranging from 16 to 18. Today, the age of consent varies from 12 years (or onset of puberty) to 21, but 16 to 18 is the most common range of ages of consent, but some jurisdictions also have a \"close-in-age\" exception, allowing two adolescents (as young as 12 years of age) to have sex with each other provided their ages are not more than 2 years apart. Some countries outlaw any sex outside marriage entirely.\n\nHistorically, and still in many countries and jurisdictions today, a female's sexual experience is sometimes considered a relevant factor in the prosecution of a perpetrator of rape. Also, historically, a man who \"took\" a female's virginity could be forced to marry her. In addition, children born as a result of premarital sex were subject to various legal and social disabilities such as being considered illegitimate and thus barred from inheriting from the putative father's estate, from bearing the father's surname or title, and support from the putative father. Many of these legal disabilities on children born from extramarital relationships have been abolished by law in most Western countries, though social ostracism may still apply.\n\nAll major religions have moral codes covering issues of sexuality, morality, and ethics. Though these moral codes do not address issues of sexuality directly, they seek to regulate the situations which can give rise to sexual interest and to influence people's sexual activities and practices. However, the impact of religious teaching has at times been limited. For example, though most religions disapprove of premarital sexual relations, it has always been widely practiced. Nevertheless, these religious codes have always had a strong influence on peoples' attitudes to sexual issues.\n\nThe most common formulation of Buddhist ethics for lay followers are the Five Precepts and the Eightfold Path. These precepts take the form of voluntary, personal undertakings, not divine mandate or instruction. The third of the Five Precepts is \"To refrain from committing sensual misconduct\". Sensual misconduct is defined in the Pali Canon as follows:\n\nVirginity, specifically, is not mentioned in the Canon. On the other hand, Buddhist monks and nuns of most traditions are expected to refrain from all sexual activity and the Buddha is said to have admonished his followers to avoid unchastity \"as if it were a pit of burning cinders.\"\n\nThe 3rd of the 5 precepts in Buddhism warns against any sensual misconduct, though the exact definition of it is unclear. Buddhists have been more open compared to other religions about the subject of sex and that has expanded over time. As with Christianity, although a traditionalist would assume that one should not have sex before marriage, many Buddhists do. There are different branches of Buddhism, like tantric and puritan, and they have very different views on the subject of sex, yet managed to get along. Tantric is a Sanskrit word; it is typically translated as two things or person being bound together. In the time of Gotama, the man who came to be known as Buddha, sex was not taboo. The world the prince lived in was filled with earthly pleasures. Women naked from the waist above were in the court solely to serve the prince. Gotama's father even constructed a chamber of love. Prince Gotama and founded the beginnings of Buddhism, which included the denial of earthly pleasures in order to follow the Middle Way. The stark contrast between the way Buddha lived his life before and after rejecting the material world may arguably be one of the reasons Buddhism evolved the way it did. In the present, the mother of a Buddha does not have to be a virgin; she must have never had a child, however.\n\nIn Hinduism, premarital virginity on the part of the bride is considered ideal. The prevailing Hindu marriage ceremony, or the Vedic wedding, centers around the \"Kanyadan\" ritual, which literally means \"gift of a virgin,\" by father of the maiden through which the Hindus believe they gain greatest spiritual merit, and marriages of the daughters are considered a spiritual obligation. The purity of women is especially valued in South Asia, where Hinduism is most commonly practiced. \n\nSex had never been a taboo in ancient India and intactness of the hymen had nothing to do with virginity.\n\nIn Sikhism, sexual activity is supposed to occur only between married individuals. Sikhism advises against premarital sex, as it has a high potential of being an indulgence of lust (\"kaam\", or extreme sexual desire). Sikhism teaches that young women must have decent modesty (\"sharam)\" because the honor (\"izzat)\" of her family could be jeopardized. Sexual activity and even living together prior to marriage is not allowed in Sikhism. Virginity is an important aspect of spirituality and it has to be preserved before marriage, or when one is ready to move into another sacred state of being with their significant other.\n\nPremarital sex is forbidden in Judaism. In fact, the precedent for the \"mitzvot\" which are related in Deuteronomy 22:25-29, which regard what happens when a man rapes a virgin, may well have been set at Shechem after the rape of Dinah (cf. Genesis 34).\n\nThere are other references in the Torah to virginity. In the first reference, in , Lot offers his virgin daughters to the people of Sodom for sexual purposes in an attempt to protect his guests (cf. Genesis 19:4-11), with the implication that the people of Sodom would be more likely to accept the offer in view of the girls' virginity than they would otherwise. This also sets the precedent for Israelites to avoid homosexual activity (cf. Leviticus 18:22, 20:13.).\n\nThe next reference is at , where Eliezer is seeking a wife for his master, Abraham's son. He meets Rebecca, and the narrative tells us, \"the damsel was very fair to look upon, a virgin, neither had any man known her\" (in biblical terms, \"to know\" is a euphemism for sexual relations).\n\nAs for any child born to a single woman, he or she is not regarded as illegitimate (a \"mamzer\") or subject to social or religious disabilities—Perez and Zerach, for example (and although their mother was a widow who was willingly impregnated by her father-in-law), were not counted as \"mamzerim\" (cf. Genesis 38:24-30).\n\nHalakhah also contains rules related to protecting female virgins, and rules regarding pre-marital sex, rape, and the effects of each.\n\nIn Torah, a damsel who has not the sign of virginity in the early marriage shall be punished by death penalty, since the unvirgin woman among Israel is equal with a defiled whore in her father's house.\n\nVirginity was often considered a virtue denoting purity and physical self-restraint and is an important characteristic in Greek mythology.\n\nIn ancient Greek literature such as the Homeric Hymns, there are references to the Parthenon goddesses Artemis, Athena, and Hestia proclaiming pledges to eternal virginity (Greek: παρθενία). However, it has been argued a maiden's state of \"parthenia\" (Greek: παρθένος), as invoked by these deities, carries a slightly different meaning from what is normally understood as virginity in modern western religions. Rather, \"parthenia\" focused more on marriageability and abstract concepts without strict physical requirements which would be adversely affected, but not entirely relinquished, by pre-marital sexual intercourse. For these reasons, other goddesses not eternally committed to \"parthenia\" within the Homeric Hymns are able to renew theirs through ritual (such as Hera) or choose an appearance which implies the possession of it (such as Aphrodite).\n\nIn Roman times, the Vestal Virgins were the highly respected, strictly celibate (although not necessarily virginal) priestesses of Vesta, and keepers of the sacred fire of Vesta. The Vestals were committed to the priesthood before puberty (when 6–10 years old) and sworn to celibacy for a period of 30 years. The chastity of the Vestals was considered to have a direct bearing on the health of the Roman state. Allowing the sacred fire of Vesta to die out, suggesting that the goddess had withdrawn her protection from the city, was a serious offence and was punishable by scourging. Because a Vestal's chastity was thought to be directly correlated to the sacred burning of the fire, if the fire were extinguished it might be assumed that a Vestal had been unchaste. The penalty for a Vestal Virgin found to have had sexual relations while in office was being buried alive.\n\nPaul the Apostle expressed the view that a person's body belongs to God and is God's temple (, ), and that premarital sex is immoral () on an equal level as adultery. () Paul also expressed the view in that sexual abstinence is the preferred state for both men and women. However, he stated that sexual relations are expected between a married couple.\n\nAccording to classicist Evelyn Stagg and New Testament scholar Frank Stagg, the New Testament holds that sex is reserved for marriage. They maintain that the New Testament teaches that sex outside of marriage is a sin of adultery if either of the participants is married, otherwise the sin of fornication if neither of the participants are married. An imperative given in 1 Corinthians says, \"Flee from sexual immorality. All other sins people commit are outside their bodies, but those who sin sexually sin against their own bodies.\" Those who are sexually immoral or adulterers are listed in in a list of \"wrongdoers who ... will not inherit the kingdom of God.\" and also address fornication. The \"Apostolic Decree\" of the Council of Jerusalem also includes a prohibition on fornication.\n\nAquinas went further, emphasizing that acts other than copulation destroy virginity, and clarifying that involuntary sexual pleasure does not destroy virginity. From his \"Summa Theologica\", \"Pleasure resulting from resolution of semen may arise in two ways. If this be the result of the mind's purpose, it destroys virginity, \"whether copulation takes place or not\". Augustine, however, mentions copulation, because such like resolution is the ordinary and natural result thereof. On another way this may happen beside the purpose of the mind, either during sleep, or through violence and without the mind's consent, although the flesh derives pleasure from it, or again through weakness of nature, as in the case of those who are subject to a flow of semen. On such cases virginity is not forfeit, because such like pollution is not the result of impurity which excludes virginity.\"\nSome have theorized that the New Testament was not against sex before marriage. The discussion turns on two Greek words — \"moicheia\" (\"μοιχεία\", adultery) and \"porneia\" (\"πορνεία\", fornication, see also pornography). The first word is restricted to contexts involving sexual betrayal of a spouse; however, the second word is used as a generic term for illegitimate sexual activity. Elsewhere in , incest, homosexual intercourse (according to some interpretations) and prostitution are all explicitly forbidden by name (however, the Septuagint uses \"porneia\" to refer to male temple prostitution). Paul is preaching about activities based on sexual prohibitions in Leviticus, in the context of achieving holiness. The theory suggests it is these, and only these behaviors that are intended by Paul's prohibition in chapter seven. The strongest argument against this theory is that the modern interpretation of the New Testament, outside Corinthians, speaks against premarital sex.\n\nChristian orthodoxy accepts that Mary, the mother of Jesus, was a virgin at the time Jesus was conceived, based on the accounts in the Gospel of Matthew and the Gospel of Luke. The Roman Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, and Oriental Orthodox Churches additionally hold to the dogma of the perpetual virginity of Mary. However, most Protestants reject the dogma, citing sources such as : \"Isn't this the carpenter, the son of Mary, and the brother of James, Joses, Judas, and Simon? And aren't His sisters here with us?\". The Catholic Church holds that in Semitic usage the terms \"brother,\" \"sister\" are applied not only to children of the same parents, but to nephews, nieces, cousins, half-brothers, and half-sisters. Catholics, Orthodox Christians and other groups may refer to Mary as \"the Virgin Mary\" or \"the Blessed Virgin Mary\".\n\nThe \"Catholic Encyclopedia\" says: \"There are two elements in virginity: the material element, that is to say, the absence, in the past and in the present, of all complete and voluntary delectation, whether from lust or from the lawful use of marriage; and the formal element, that is the firm resolution to abstain forever from sexual pleasure\" and that \"Virginity is irreparably lost by sexual pleasure, voluntarily and completely experienced.\" However, for the purposes of consecrated virgins it is canonically enough that they have never been married or lived in open violation of chastity.\n\nIslam considers extramarital sex to be sinful and forbidden however an exception exists for one's own slave girls, to include those who were married at the time of enslavement. Though Islamic law prescribes punishments for Muslim men and women for the act of zinā, in practice it is an extremely difficult offense to prove, requiring four respectable witnesses to the actual act of penetration. Though in Western cultures premarital sex and loss of virginity may be considered shameful to the individual, in some Muslim societies an act of premarital sex, even if not falling within the legal standards of proof, may result in personal shame and loss of family honor.\n\nIn some modern-day largely Muslim societies such as Turkey, vaginal examinations for verifying a woman's virginity are a clinical practice which are at times state-enforced. These types of examinations are typically ordered for women who go against traditional societal notions of \"public morality and rules of modesty\", though in 1999 the Turkish penal code was altered to require a woman's consent prior to performing such an examination.\n\n\nNotes\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "3133628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3133628", "title": "Walk of shame", "text": "Walk of shame\n\nThe walk of shame refers to a situation in which a person must walk past strangers or peers alone for an embarrassing reason before reaching a place of safety and privacy.\n\nIn sports in which a penalty card - generally red in colour - is shown to a player and results in their ejection from the match, their passage off the pitch is frequently referred to as a walk of shame, especially in instances where the player looks more remorseful than angry. This is generally amplified, especially in association football, as the opposing team's supporters generally feel few inhibitions at barracking the player with abuse as they leave.\n\nIt often occurs the morning after a night out at a bar, nightclub, or party. People undertaking the walk of shame are understood to have spent the night at the residence of a sexual partner (or perceived sexual partner), particularly a one-night stand. The topic is often the subject of college newspaper commentary. The \"walker\" may often be identified by his or her disheveled appearance and incongruous evening attire, particularly on Saturday or Sunday mornings.\n\nIn exhibitionism, the walk of shame may also refer to an exhibitionist walking in public while exposed—either partially or fully naked—and trying to reach a place of safety and privacy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6742028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6742028", "title": "Wenatchee child abuse prosecutions", "text": "Wenatchee child abuse prosecutions\n\nThe Wenatchee child abuse prosecutions in Wenatchee, Washington, USA, are examples of day-care sexual-abuse hysteria, that occurred in 1994 and 1995.\n\nThe investigation began in January 1995 when Detective Robert Perez was told by his 13-year-old foster daughter, Donna Perez, that she had been sexually molested. She said she had been raped or molested by almost every adult she knew, and that the same molestation had occurred to almost every other child she knew. On March 13, 1995, Perez put Donna in his police car with two social services caseworkers and they drove through Wenatchee and East Wenatchee. Donna pointed out houses and buildings where she says she and other children were repeatedly raped and molested since January 1988. She listed 22 locations.\n\nMany of the people convicted were poor, mentally retarded and on welfare, and their lawyers stated that their guilty pleas were coerced. In 1995, after Pastor Robert Roberson criticized the investigation, he was arrested and charged with eleven counts of the sexual abuse of a child. Roberson and his wife were acquitted of all charges.\n\nForty-three adults were arrested on 29,726 charges of child sex abuse, involving 60 children in 1995. Parents and Sunday school teachers were charged, and many were convicted of abusing children, often including their own, or their foster children.\n\nProsecutors were unable to provide any physical evidence to support the charges. The main witness was Perez' foster daughter; Perez was the investigator of the cases.\n\nThose who were convicted were freed by higher courts and had their convictions overturned or pleaded guilty on lesser charges. Five served their full sentences before their cases were overturned. Some lost parental rights. By 2000, the last person in custody, Michael Rose, was released, after a judge vacated his March 1995 convictions.\n\nIn 1996, a consultant, retired Bellevue Police Chief D.P. Van Blaricom, hired by a city insurer who looked into how the Wenatchee police ran the child abuse investigations, stated that the cases were handled properly. In 1998, Phillip Esplin, a forensic psychologist for the National Institutes of Health's Child Witness Project said that \"Wenatchee may be the worst example ever of mental health services being abused by a state ... to control and manage children who have been frightened and coerced into falsely accusing their parents and neighbors of the most heinous of crimes.\" In 2001, a jury found the city of Wenatchee and Douglas County, Washington negligent in the 1994-1995 investigations. They awarded $3 million to a couple who had been wrongly accused in the inquiry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27922447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27922447", "title": "White Colombians", "text": "White Colombians\n\nWhite Colombians are the Colombian descendants of European (overwhelmingly Spanish) and Middle Eastern (primarily Lebanese and Syrian) people, who self identify as such. According to the 2005 Census 85% of Colombians do not identify with any ethnic group, thus being either White or Mestizo, which are not categorized separately. It is nevetherless estimated that 37% of the Colombian population can be categorized as white, forming the second largest racial group after mestizos (at 49 percent). Other sources estimate that White population in Colombia is around 20%. Genetic research with over 60,000 blood tests and 25 variables, determined that the average Colombian (of all races) has an admixture of 70% European, 20% native Amerindian and 10% African ancestry, with these proportions varying widely among regions and ethnicities.\n\nThe various racial groups exist in differing concentrations throughout the nation, in a pattern that to some extent goes back to colonial origins. Paisa Region and Bogotá have the a largest concentration of White Colombians. Whites tend to live mainly in the urban centers, like Cali, Medellín or Bogotá, and the burgeoning highland cities.\n\nThe presence of Whites in Colombia began in 1510 with the colonization of San Sebastián de Urabá. In 1526, settlers founded Santa Marta, the oldest Spanish city still in existence in Colombia.\nMany Spaniards began their exploration searching for gold, while others established themselves as leaders of the native social organizations teaching the Christian faith and the ways of their civilization. Catholic priests would provide education for Native Americans that otherwise was unavailable. Within 100 years after the first Spanish settlement, nearly 95 percent of all Native Americans in Colombia had died. The majority of the deaths were the cause of diseases spread by the settlers, such as measles and smallpox. Some natives were also killed in armed conflicts with their new neighbours.\n\nColombia was one of early focus of Basque and Sephardi immigration. Between 1540 and 1559, 8.9% of the residents of Colombia were of Basque origin. Basque priests introduced handball into Colombia. Jewish converts to Christianity and some crypto-Jews also sailed with the early conquistadors. It has been suggested that the present day culture of business entrepreneurship in the region of Antioquia and Valle del Cauca is attributable to the Basque and Sephardi immigration. Few Colombians of Basque descent are aware of their ethnic heritage. In Bogota, there is a small colony of thirty to forty families who emigrated as a consequence of the Spanish Civil War, or because of different opportunities. Basque priests were the ones that introduced handball into Colombia. Basque immigrants in Colombia were devoted to teaching and public administration. In the first years of the Andean multinational company, Basque sailors navigated as captains and pilots on the majority of the ships until the country was able to train its own crews.\n\nThe first German immigrants arrived in the 16th century contracted by the Spanish Crown, and included explorers such as Ambrosio Alfinger. There was another small wave of German immigrants at the end of the 19th and beginning of 20th century including Leo Siegfried Kopp, the founder of the famous Bavaria Brewery.\nSCADTA, a Colombian-German air transport corporation which was established by German expatriates in 1919, was the first commercial airline in the western hemisphere.\n\nIn December 1941 the United States government estimated that there were 4,000 Germans living in Colombia. Another 7,000 German Jews joined their ranks in Colombia's burgeoning cities. \nThere were some Nazi agitators in Colombia, such as Barranquilla businessman Emil Prufurt, but the majority was apolitical. Colombia asked Germans who were on the U.S. blacklist to leave and allowed Jewish refugees in the country illegally to stay.\n\nThere had also been Italian immigration of a few thousands people, however it is to a much lesser degree than to other Latin American countries such as Venezuela, Argentina or Brazil. Indeed, approximately 30,000 Italians have emigrated to Colombia since colonial times. It is calculated, by the Italian Embassy in Bogota, that in 2010 more than 120,000 Colombians have direct or distant roots in Italian emigrants. Actually 14,216 Italians are residents in Colombia (2011 \"Anagrafe Italiani iscritti estero - AIRE\").\n\nThe first and largest wave of immigration from the Middle East began around 1880, and remained during the first two decades of the 20th century. They were mainly Maronite Christians from Lebanon, Syria and Palestine, fleeing because of financial hardships and the repressions of the Turkish Ottoman Empire. When they were first processed in the ports of Colombia, they were classified as Turks because the region was a territory of the Turkish Ottoman Empire. Lebanese, Syrians, Palestinians and some Israelis continue since then to settle in Colombia. It is estimated that Colombia has a Middle-Eastern population of 700,000+. Due to poor existing information it's impossible to know the exact number of people that immigrated to Colombia. A figure of 5,000-10,000 from 1880 to 1930 may be reliable. Whatever the figure, Lebanese are perhaps the biggest immigrant group next to the Spanish since independence. Those who left their homeland in the Middle East to settle in Colombia left for religious, economic, and political reasons. A few simply left to experience the adventure of migrating. After Barranquilla and Cartagena, Bogota was among the cities with the largest number of Arabic-speaking representatives in Colombia in 1945.\n\nWhite Colombians are mainly of Spanish descent, who arrived in the beginning of the 16th century when Colombia was part of the Spanish Empire. During the 19th and 20th centuries, other European and Middle Eastern peoples migrated to Colombia, notably Lebanese people but also Germans, Italians, Lithuanians, and British among others.\n\nThe most predominant religion is Christianity, particularly Roman Catholicism. Under 1% practice Buddhism, Hinduism, Islam, and Judaism. Despite strong numbers of Christian adherents, 35.9% of Colombians reported that they did not practice their faith actively.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34552349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34552349", "title": "Wichí languages", "text": "Wichí languages\n\nThe Wichí languages are an indigenous language family spoken by the Wichí in northwestern Argentina and far-southeastern Bolivia, part of the Matacoan family. They are also known as Mataco, Wichi, Wichí Lhamtés, Weenhayek, Noctenes, Matahuayo, Matako, Weʃwo. The name \"Mataco\" is common but pejorative.\n\nCurrently, the Argentine government does not have education in indigenous languages in schools. Because the Wichí have to be fluent in Spanish to access government services, and children are only educated in Spanish, Wichí children only speak Spanish among themselves. This has made all Wichí dialects vulnerable to extinction.\n\nThey include the following languages:\n\nThe Argentine National Institute of Statistics and Censuses (INDEC) gives a figure of 36,135 Wichí speakers in Argentina.\n\nIn Rosario, the third biggest city of Argentina, there is a community of about 10,000 Wichí people, all of them fluent in Wichi, and some native speakers. There are a couple of bilingual primary schools.\n\nFor Bolivia, Alvarsson estimated between 1,700 and 2,000 speakers in 1988; a census reported 1,912, and Diez Astete & Riester (1996) estimated between 2,300 and 2,600 Weenhayek in sixteen communities.\n\nAccording to Najlis (1968) and Gordon (2005), three main dialects can be distinguished in the Wichí group: southwestern or Vejós (Wehwós), northeastern or Güisnay (Weenhayek) and northwestern or Nocten (Oktenay). Tovar (1981) and other authors claim the existence of only two dialects (northeastern and southwestern), while Braunstein (1992-3) identifies eleven ethnic subgroups.\n\nWichí languages are predominantly suffixing and polysynthetic; verbal words have between 2 and 15 morphemes. Alienable and inalienable possession is distinguished. The phonological inventory is large, with simple, glottalized and aspirated stops and sonorants. The number of vowels varies with dialect (five or six).\n\nVowel sounds in the Wichi languages are /a ɑ e i o u/.\n\n"}
{"id": "14659093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14659093", "title": "William Bascom", "text": "William Bascom\n\n__notoc__\n\nWilliam R. Bascom (1912–1981) was an American folklorist, anthropologist, and museum director. \n\nBascom completed his B.A. at the University of Wisconsin, and earned his Ph.D. in anthropology at Northwestern University under Melville J. Herskovits in 1939. He taught at Northwestern, Cambridge University, and the University of California, Berkeley, where he was also Director of the Lowie Museum of Anthropology. During World War II, he joined the O.S.S. and together with Ralph Bunche co-authored an unsigned volume, \"A Pocket Guide to West Africa\" in 1943.\n\nBascom was a specialist in the art and culture of West Africa and the African Diaspora, especially the Yoruba of Nigeria. Several of his articles on folkloristics serve as texts in graduate courses in folklore.\n\nIn a major article published in 1954, Bascom argued that folklore can serve four primary functions in a culture: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2911940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2911940", "title": "Wolof people", "text": "Wolof people\n\nThe Wolof people () are a West African ethnic group found in northwestern Senegal, The Gambia and southwestern coastal Mauritania. In Senegal, the Wolof are the largest ethnic group (~39%), while elsewhere they are a minority. They refer to themselves as \"Wolof\" and speak the Wolof language – a West Atlantic branch of the Niger–Congo family of languages.\n\nTheir early history is unclear and based on oral traditions that link the Wolof to the Almoravids. The earliest documented mention of the Wolof is found in the records of 15th-century Portuguese financed Italian traveller Alvise Cadamosto, who mentioned well established Islamic Wolof chiefs advised by Muslim counselors and divines. The Wolof belonged to the medieval era Wolof Empire of Senegambia region.\n\nDetails of the pre-Islamic religious traditions of Wolof are unknown, and their oral traditions state them to have been adherents of Islam since the founding king of Jolof. However, historical evidence left by Islamic scholars and European travelers suggest that Wolof warriors and rulers did not convert to Islam, while accepting and relying on Muslim clerics as counselors and administrators. In and after the 18th century, the Wolofs were impacted by the violent jihads in West Africa, which triggered internal disagreements among the Wolof on Islam. In the 19th century, as the colonial French forces launched a war against the Wolof kingdoms, the Wolof people resisted the French and converted to Islam. Contemporary Wolofs are predominantly Sufi Muslims belonging to Mouride and Tijaniyyah Islamic brotherhoods.\n\nThe Wolof people, like other West African ethnic groups, have historically maintained a rigid, endogamous social stratification that included nobility, clerics, castes and slaves. The Wolof were close to the French colonial rulers, became integrated into the colonial administration, and have dominated the Senegal culture and economy since its independence. They are also referred to as Chelofes, Galofes, Lolof, Jolof, Olof, Volof, Wolluf and Yolof.\n\nThe term \"Wolof\" also refers to the Wolof language and to their states, cultures, and traditions. Older French publications frequently employ the spelling \"Ouolof\"; up to the 19th century, the spellings \"Volof\" and \"Olof\" are also encountered. In English, Wollof and Woloff are found, particularly in reference to the Gambian Wolof. (The spelling \"Wollof\" is closer to the native pronunciation of the name.) The spelling Jolof is often used, but in particular reference to the Wolof empire and kingdom in central Senegal that existed from the 14th to the 19th centuries. Similarly, a West African rice dish is known in English as jollof rice.\n\nThe origins of the Wolof people are obscure, states David Gamble – a professor of Anthropology specializing on Senegambia and Africa studies. Archeological artifacts have been discovered in Senegal and The Gambia, such as pre-historic pottery, the 8th century stones, and 14th century burial mounds, but states Gamble, these provide no evidence that link them exclusively to the Wolof ethnic group. Their name as the Wolof first appears in the records of 15th century Portuguese travelers.\n\nWith the Arab conquests of West Africa in last centuries of the 1st millennium CE, one theory states that the Wolof people were forced to move into north and east Senegal where over time villages developed into autonomous states such as Baol, Kayor, Saloum, Dimar, Walo and Sine the overall ruling state being that of Jolof who came together voluntarily to form the Jolof Empire. According to Gamble, this migration likely occurred at the end of 11th century when the Ghana Empire fell to the Muslim armies from Sudan.\n\nAnother oral tradition tells of a legend in Walo, which starts with two villages near a lake in a dispute. A mysterious person arose from the lake to settle the dispute. The villagers detained him, he settled among them and became the one who settled disputes and a sovereign authority. He was called \"Ndyadyane Ndyaye\", and his descendants were called \"Ndiayes\" or \"Njie\", and these led to ruling families of Wolof, Mali and Morocco, according to this mythical legend. The documented history, from 15th-century onwards is a complex story of rivalry between powerful families, wars, coups and conquests in Wolof society.\n\nThe Jolof or Wolof Empire was a medieval West African state that ruled parts of Senegal and the Gambia from approximately 1350 to 1890. While only ever consolidated into a single state structure for part of this time, the tradition of governance, caste, and culture of the Wolof dominate the history of north-central Senegal for much of the last 800 years. Its final demise at the hands of French colonial forces in the 1870s-1890s also marks the beginning of the formation of Senegal as a unified state.\n\nBy the end of the 15th century, the Wolof states of Jolof, Kayor, Baol and Walo had become united in a federation with Jolof as the metropolitan power. The position of king was held by the Burba Wolof and the rulers of the other component states owed loyalty and tribute payments to him. Before the Wolof people became involved in goods and slave trading with the Portuguese merchants on the coast, they had a long tradition of established trading of goods and slaves with the Western Sudanese empires and with Imamate of Futa Toro and other ethnic groups in North Africa.\n\nSlavery has been a part of the Wolof people since their earliest known history. In the pre-colonial era, slaves were either born or acquired through purchase or capture.\n\nThe Portuguese had begun purchasing slaves from Senegambia ports and caravan traders coming through the Wolof people lands before the 18th century. A major source of slaves sold by Wolof elites, and of Wolof slaves, were the war captives taken during the wars between the ethnic groups in West Africa. Slave raiding, just to obtain slaves for sale, were another significant source of slaves in Wolof territories. The transatlantic demand for slaves in British, French, Dutch and Portuguese colonies, as well as American plantations, along with lucrative prices for slaves increased the economic incentive to scale up the violence as well as the sale of slaves from the social strata within the Wolof society. The sale of weapons and horses to the Wolof elites and warriors made slave raiding easier.\n\nEarly colonial laws that sought to end slave trade were strongly resisted by Wolof elites as well colonial administrators in Senegambia. These laws were evaded. The slavery system was abolished in Wolof lands and its end enforced after 1890s by the British and French colonial authorities when they began ruling The Gambia and Senegal directly, the two major parts where the Wolof people are found. However, the social distinctions between the freeborn and the slaves remained strong, during the colonial rule, and even after the two nations gained their independence from the colonial rule.\n\nThe Wolof people are the largest ethnic group in Senegal, particularly concentrated in its northwestern region near the Senegal River and the Gambia River. In The Gambia, about 16% of the population are Wolof. In Gambia, they are a minority, yet Wolof language and culture have a disproportionate influence because of their prevalence in Banjul, the Gambian capital, where a majority of the population is Wolof. In Mauritania, about 8% of the population are Wolof. Their total population exceeds 6 million in the three countries.\n\nThe vast majority of Wolof people are Sunni Muslims. However, religious practice often contains local elements. The complicated relationship had led to the emergence of Sufi traditions from a historic and dominant Sunni Islam environment.\n\nThe pre-Islamic religious traditions of Wolof are unknown, and neither written or oral traditions about their traditional religion are available. The oral traditions of the Wolof have legends that state them to have been adherents of Islam since the founding of their Kingdom of Jolof. However, historical evidence left by Islamic scholars and European travelers suggest that Wolof kings and warriors did not convert to Islam in the beginning and for many centuries, while accepting and relying on Muslim clerics as counselors and administrators.\n\nAccording to David Gamble, the pre-Islamic beliefs of Wolof may be reflected and absorbed in the Sufi beliefs about good and bad spirits (\"jinn\"), amulets, dances and other rituals.\n\nIn and after the 18th century, the Wolofs were impacted by the violent jihads in West Africa, which triggered internal disagreements among the Wolof on Islam. Ira Lapidus – a professor of Middle Eastern and Islamic History, states that the early 19th century Senegambian jihads \"swept through Senegambia burning villages, killing pagans and enslaving their enemies\", and were responsible for the conversion of substantial numbers of Wolof to Islam. The West African jihads that involved the Wolof and other ethnic groups started early and often inspired by militant reformers such as those of the 15th century. The assaults of the 18th and 19th century jihads, states Lapidus, paved the way for massive conversions to Islam, yet not a nearly universal conversion.\n\nIn the late 19th century, as the colonial French forces launched a war against the Wolof kingdoms, the Wolof people resisted the French and triggered the start of near universal conversion of the Wolof people in Senegambia to Islam. Wolofs joined the various competing Sufi Muslim movements in the 20th century, particularly those belonging to the Mouride and Tijaniyyah Islamic brotherhoods.\n\nThe Senegalese Sufi Muslim brotherhoods appeared in the Wolof communities in the 19th century and grew in the 20th. The Sufi leaders and marabouts exercise cultural and political influence amongst most Muslim communities, most notably the leader of the \"Muridiyya\" also called the Mouride brotherhood.\n\nIn the 20th century, missionaries of the Ahmadiyya Islam and Methodist Christianity have opened offices in contemporary Senegambia, and a few Wolof have become members of these.\n\nThe Wolof people’s traditional culture and practices have survived the colonial era and are a strong element of the Senegalese culture.\n\nWolof () is a language of Senegal, the Gambia, and Mauritania, and the native language of the Wolof people. Like the neighbouring languages Serer and Fula, it belongs to the Senegambian branch of the Niger–Congo language family. Unlike most other languages of Sub-Saharan Africa, Wolof is not a tonal language.\n\nWolof originated as the language of the Lebu people. It is the most widely spoken language in Senegal, spoken natively by the Wolof people (40% of the population) but also by most other Senegalese as a second language.\n\nWolof dialects vary geographically and between rural and urban areas. \"Dakar-Wolof\", for instance, is an urban mixture of Wolof, French, and Arabic.\n\nThe Wolof people have had a rigid, patriarchal, endogamous social stratified society at least since the 15th-century.\n\nThe social strata have included a free category called \"geer\", a castes category called \"nyeenyo\" or \"neeno\", and a servile category of slaves called \"jaam\". Caste status has been hereditary, and endogamy among the men and women of a particular caste status has been an enduring feature among the Wolof people, states Leonardo Villalón – a professor of Political Science and African Studies. The Wolof's caste status, states Villalón, is a greater barrier to inter-marriage than is either ethnicity or religion in Senegal.\n\nThe castes have also been hierarchal, with lowest level being those of griots. Their inherited inferiority has been culturally stated to be close to those of slaves (\"jaams\" or \"kaals\"). The castes, states David Gamble, were associated with ideas of relative purity-impurity. The leatherworkers, for example, were considered the lowest of the \"nyenyo\" because their occupation involving animal skins was considered dirty.\nSlaves have historically been a separate, endogamous group in the Wolof society. Slavery was either inherited by birth in the Wolof society, or were kidnapped, purchased as children from desperate parents during difficult times such as a famine, or slavery was imposed by the village elders as a punishment for offenses. By the early 18th-century, all sorts of charges and petty crimes resulted in the accused being punished to the slave strata. Slaves acquired by kidnapping, purchase or as captives of war were called \"jaam sayor\" in the Wolof society.\n\nThe \"geer\" or \"freeborn\" too had a hierarchical structure. At the top were the royal rulers, below them were the regionally or locally powerful noble lineages who controlled territories and collected tribute, and below them were commoner freeborn called the \"baadoolo\" or \"lacking power\".\n\nThe chronological origin of social stratification based on castes and slavery is unclear, likely linked. Tal Tamari – the Chargée de Recherche for Anthropologie at CNRS Paris, suggests that a corollary of the rising slavery system was the development and growth of the caste system among Wolofs by the 15th century, and other ethnic groups of Africa by about the 13th century. According to Susan McIntosh – a professor of Anthropology specializing in African societies, however, that the emergence of caste systems in West African societies such as Wolof, Mande, Malinke, Serer, Soninke and others, was likely older. She places the development and spread of castes in these societies to about the 10th-century, because the slave capture, slave trade and slave holding across the Sahel, West Africa and North Africa, by elite families was an established institution by then, and slavery created a template for servile relationships and social stratification of human beings. According to Victoria B. Coifman, professor of Afro-American & African Studies, historical evidence suggests that the Wolof people were a matrilineal society before the 14th-century. Later politico-religious changes, such as those brought during the Wolof Empire era, introduced major changes in the social structure among the Wolofs and many other ethnic groups, including a shift to a patrilineal system.\n\nThe divisions, the endogamy among Wolof castes, social and political groups have persisted into the post-colonial independent Senegal.\n\nThe Wolof are primarily rural (~75%), living in small villages. According to David Gamble, the historical evidence suggests Wolofs used to live in large settlements priors to the jihad wars and slave raids.\n\nWolof villages consist of cluster of compounds. Some clusters are random with no central plaza, many are clustered around a plaza with a mosque in the center. Each compound has either round or square huts made from adobe-like mud-millet stalk walls and thatched roofs with a conical shape. A compound is sometimes fenced with a hedge made from reeds or millet-stalk.\n\nA single compound may have multiple huts, with a patrilocal male as its head, with a different wife and her children in each hut in polygynous households. A compound traditionally operates a joint kitchen, but if there are internal disputes then each family unit cooks separately.\n\nA village is headed by a chief, called the \"borom dekk\". This role belongs to a caste, and has been hereditary. The chief has been the tribute (tax) collector and the interface between the kingdom officials and the villagers. Typically, the chief is also a Muslim religious leader, called \"seriñ\" (marabout). Larger villages have an imam, called the \"yélimaan\", and a hunting or warriors leader called the \"saltigé\". Both have traditionally been hereditary castes. Social relationships within a village are based on hierarchy, while disputes are typically settled with intermediaries and Muslim tribunals headed by an Islamic judge called a \"qadi\".\n\nMarriages are endogamous. The preferred and common form of marriage is the bilateral cross-cousin type, with most preferred marriages are those between a man and the daughter of his mother's brother. Multiple marriages have been common, with many Wolof households featuring two wives. Dowry among the Wolof people is paid in the form of a brideprice. The dower is the property of the woman upon the consummation of the marriage. A divorce is quite common in the Wolof society and according to the Islamic tenets.\n\nWhile slavery is illegal in contemporary African societies, it was common in the history of Wolof people and among the elite castes. The slaves could not marry without the permission of their owner, and it was usually the responsibility of the slave owner to arrange the marriage of or among his slaves. The slave owner and his descendants also had a right to have sex with slave women owned by the household.\n\nThe Wolof people are traditionally settled farmers and artisans. Millet has been the typical staple, while rice a secondary staple when rains are plenty. Cassava is also grown, but it has been a source of income to the Wolof farmers. Since the colonial era, peanuts has been the primary cash crop.\n\nWolof society is patrilineal, and agriculture land is inherited by the landowning caste. The typical farmers in a village pay rent (\"waref\") to the landowner for the right to crop his land. Wolof farmers raise chickens and goats, and dried or smoked fish purchased, both a part of their diet. Cattle too are raised, not for food, but for milk, tilling the land and as a reserve of wealth. Rural Wolof people eat beef rarely, typically as a part of a ceremonial feast. Some villages in the contemporary times share agricultural machinery and sell the peanut harvest as a cooperative.\n\nThose Wolof people who are of artisan castes work on metal, weave and dye textiles, produce leather goods, make pottery and baskets, tailor clothes, produce thatch and perform such economic activity. Wolof smiths produce tools for agriculture, while another group works on gold jewelry.\n\nOccupation is traditionally based on gender and inherited caste. Men of certain caste are smiths, leatherworkers, weavers (now the profession of former slave descendants). Religious and political functions have been the domain of men, while women typically keep the household, bring water from their sources such as wells or nearby river. Women also plant, weed, harvest crops and collect firewood. Women of the pottery caste group, also help in steps involved in making pottery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29145699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29145699", "title": "Women's literary salons and societies in the Arab world", "text": "Women's literary salons and societies in the Arab world\n\nThe tradition of women's literary circles in the Arab world dates back to the pre-Islamic period when the eminent literary figure, Al-Khansa, would stand in the 'Ukaz market in Mecca, reciting her poetry and airing her views on the scholarship of others. From this, a culture of literary criticism emerged among Arab women, and under the Umayyad dynasty, Sukaynah Bint Al-Husayn established the first literary salon in her home. The tradition was revived during the late nineteenth century, as a result of sweeping social, political and economic change within the Ottoman Empire and Europe's increasing political and cultural influence in the region. The initial pioneers of the Arab salon were women from wealthy families in Greater Syria and Egypt, who returned influenced by interaction with European women during their time spent studying abroad and frequenting Parisian salons, or studying in schools run by European or American missionaries. The salon evenings, run by women but attended by both men and women, provided a unique opportunity to have discussions about social, political and literary trends of the day. Though the tradition died out somewhat after the Second World War, it has left a lasting legacy on literary culture and women's issues throughout the Arab world. Indeed, more than one hundred years later, the UN Arab Human Development Report echoes what many people in Arab societies were coming to realise at that time: \"An Arab Renaissance cannot be accomplished without the rise of women in Arab countries.\"\n\nThe educational reforms of the nineteenth century, a period of sweeping social, economic and political transition, resulted from various undercurrents occurring at different levels within the realms of the Ottoman Empire from the Mashreq (Greater Syria) to the Maghreb (North Africa). These trends were largely attributable to the increased European presence in the region and their secular ideas of modernity.\n\nAt a societal level, the arrival of Christian missionaries supported by the European and American governments led to the creation of a formal system of education for girls, who had until this period received little or no education. Initially, this took the form of private institutions attracting wealthy and mostly Christian families. However, as these schools became more socially acceptable and affordable, the idea trickled down to the middle classes before finally reaching out to the poor. Thus, a new norm was becoming increasingly prevalent; the idea that girls should receive an education so as to afford them better marriage prospects, and more importantly, to provide them with adequate means in which to educate their children. At this point in time, the range of subjects offered to women was limited. However women seized these opportunities to learn, and showed admirable drive and determination. By the middle of the century, a sense of \"...awareness and obligation for intellectual and social consciousness, especially the appreciation of women's plight, and the struggle for a voice in society became visible and public.\" A notable example of the contribution of Western missionaries to increasing educational opportunities for women was the work of Daniel and Abby Maria Bliss, an American couple who moved to Beirut in 1866 and subsequently set up the Syrian Protestant College (which later became the American University of Beirut). In 1905, a nursing programme that accepted applications from women was established, and in 1924, the Faculty of Arts and Sciences opened its doors to female students.\n\nThe rumblings of reform taking place within Ottoman society reached the Sultanate, and were eventually echoed at an institutional level. The Ottoman regime, in order to counteract the threat of political and religious influence from the Christian missionary schools and due to the realisation that the empire could not hope to survive without learning the modern natural sciences, began to implement its own reforms (\"tanzimat\"). According to the Arab historian, Eugene Rogan, the reforms introduced by the Sultanate had little effect on the subjects of the empire. However, by the 1850s and 1860s, the fruits of reform were visible in the daily life.\n\nThe third (and arguably the most important) current that led to the existence and improvement of women's education in the nineteenth and early twentieth century was due to European colonialism and its legacy. Napoleon's short-lived occupation of Egypt (1798–1801) was relatively unsuccessful by French standards. However, their revolutionary ideas and imports in the field of technology and education were to prove more durable in Egypt and the rest of North Africa. Under the leadership of Muhammad 'Ali, an admirer of French innovation and technology, interactions and exchanges between Egypt and France in the cultural, academic and scientific fields increased during his reign Indeed, it was not just male students who spent time abroad. Notable Arab hostesses or \"salonnières\" such as Mayy Ziyadah spent time in France, and the Egyptian feminist and occasional hostess of salon evenings, Huda Sha`arawi, used to grant scholarships to writers enabling them to study in Europe at her own expense. Ideas of educational reform and feminism were also occurring elsewhere in the Arab world, with the Syrian writer and scholar, Butrus al-Bustani (1819–1883) in Lebanon among the first to advocate women’s right to education in 1847. Two decades later in Tunisia, the reformist, Ahmed Kheireddine, stressed the importance of women's education in the running of households and raising children. This was a small, but crucial step in the emancipation of women in society. Later in Egypt, after the British took over from the French in their 'civilising mission' of Egypt they also contributed to the reform of women's education. In his work entitled, \"Modern Egypt\", Lord Cromer, who had served for almost thirty years as High Commissioner of Egypt, \"...by confining the sphere of women's interest to a very limited horizon, cramps the intellect and withers the mental development of one-half of the population in Moslem countries.\"\n\nBy 1924, when the Faculty of Arts and Sciences at the American University of Beirut began accepting applications from women, the norm that \"Knowledge rather than ignorance preserves women's dignity and morality\" had been firmly established. In the face of confinement and exclusion from the formal education system, middle-class women overcame their exclusion and marginalisation from society, holding informal literary or study circles in their family homes. Moreover, women such as Mayy Ziyadah and Mary 'Ajami went on to pursue higher education in Europe, returning to set up well-known salons and contributing immeasurably to literary circles, print and production in the Arab world.\n\nAt the turn of the nineteenth century, the idea of the harem continued to linger in many Arab societies. Women of the urban middle and upper classes were confined to the domestic sphere, and the vast majority remained unseen and unheard in public life. Necessity afforded female members of the lower and rural classes slightly more 'freedom', as they were needed to work the land in order to support their families. Women's issues began to emerge from the background - albeit slowly - in the late nineteenth and early twentieth century, with the likes of Qāsim Amin (1863–1908) calling the seclusion of women an 'injustice' and advocating partial empowerment of women. However, the majority of prominent feminist writers were men, and the presence of women activists in the public sphere was virtually non-existent. The salon and its male participants, many of whom were well-known intellectuals, provided them with a means in which to express their ideas and opinions in private, whilst accessing the male-dominant public sphere through their lively discussions and debates. In her thesis entitled 'Arab Women Going Public: Mayy Ziyadah and her Literary Salon in a Comparative Context', Boutheina Khaldi remarks that women of the salons overcame the obstacle of gender inequality \"by bringing public men into their private salons and hence creating a public sphere from the very heart of the private one.\" The essays and letters produced by hostesses and participants of the salons on the topics discussed also had a considerable impact on society at the time, and in particular, the nurturing of the Arab Renaissance and women's emancipation. The publication of letters by is interpreted by Jürgen Habermas in his writing on the public sphere as bridging the gap between the private sphere in which women gathered, and the public sphere that they sought to shape and conquer.\n\nThe Arab Renaissance (al-Nahda or ) was an endeavour to reach a compromise between contemporary practices similar to those in Europe and a shared Arab heritage, in the hope of shaping a new vision for an Arab society in transition. The relationship between women's literary salons and the Arab Awakening, as it was also referred to, is of paramount importance. Not only were meetings of literary figures an integral part of the Renaissance, but from the beginning of the Arab Renaissance in the nineteenth century, women came to realise the strong bonds between the literary-cultural, social and political, and that the literary movement was key to liberating the 'collective consciousness' from the traditional norms that had stunted their progress. Men also began to acknowledge the importance of women's emancipation to national liberation and development at this time, and there is no doubt that increased interactions between male and female intellectuals within literary circles made an invaluable contribution. One of the first men to write about the liberation of women was Qāsim Amin, an influential literary figure at the turn of the twentieth century, argued for the emancipation of women for the sake of the Arab Renaissance, as did al-Tahtawi. Both of these men frequented Mayy Ziyadah's salon in Cairo. Thus women's desire for emancipation and men's nationalist dreams became the keystone in the advancement of society.\n\nIn 1847, two great literary figures of the Arab cultural renaissance, Butrus Al-Bustani and Nasif Al-Yaziji, founded the first literary society, \"Jam'iyyat al-Adab wal-'Ulum\" (The Literary and Scientific Society). Its members were exclusively Syrian Christians and Europeans living and working in diplomatic and missionary circles. However, ten years later, \"al-Jam'iyya al-'Ilmiyya al-Suriyya\" (The Syrian Scientific Society) was established, and attracted Western-educated Muslims and Druze as well as Christians. In 1917, the Tunisian literary figure, Hassan Hosni Abdel-Wahab wrote about the urgent need for educated Muslim young women to take charge of the future and to 'awaken the nationalist spirit', as without this, 'life would turn to nihilism and its consequences'. Only a few years later in the 1920s, Manwia Al-Wartani and Habiba al-Minshari, became the leaders of a dynamic women's movement in Tunisia. Like these Tunisian pioneers, women of the upper and middle classes across the increasingly imagined Arab world began to reap the benefits of education, and many of them began to focus on writing and joined their male counterparts in contributing to the Arab Renaissance.\n\nOne woman of particular significance to the awareness of the Arab Renaissance amongst women was Princess Nāzīl Fadīl (c.1884-1914). Her salon seems to have had an effect on its male guests, who were usually prominent members of the nationalist cause.\n\nThe tradition of women's printing and press, an integral part of middle-class circles and the Renaissance, was also intertwined with the literary salon. Many hostesses produced letters and essays on issues discussed in salons, such as equality, women's rights and nationalism. In Palestine, for example, the press became a partisan for the women, who used it as a transmitter and a publicist for their activities. The Lebanese journalist, Hind Nawfal published the first monthly journal, \"al-Fatah\" in 1892 in Egypt, encouraging women to think of journalism as a respectable occupation. Other journals, many published by Lebanese women in Egypt, followed suit: \"Anis al-Jalis\", \"al-'A'ilah\", \"al-Mar'ah\", \"al-Zahrah\", \"Fatat al-Sharq\", \"al-A'mal al-Yadawiyyah\" and \"al-'Arous\" (The Bride) which was published by Mary 'Ajami. It is worth noting that this publication did not focus solely on women's issues, but also those related to the Renaissance and nationalism. Whilst the environment in which these female literary figures were operating in was becoming more and more conducive to women's issues, the road to equality and liberation was by no means free from obstacles, and many women published articles under pseudonyms.\n\nThe French word, \"salon\", which was first uttered in seventeenth century France comes from the Italian word \"sala\"; and was used to define a large reception hall or reception room in a private residence. Later, it was used when referring to social gatherings in nineteenth century France. The word found its way to Egypt with the Napoleonic expedition, and was one of many traces of the French-Egyptian encounter (1798-1801) and its legacy. Whilst the word \"salon\" itself was a European import, there were various words in Arabic that were used to describe various kinds of social gatherings in the Arab world. According to the academic and expert, Boutheina Khaldi, the terms \"nadwah\" or \"nadi\" or \"muntada\" \"...were used traditionally to indicate the call on people to gather for a purpose.\" The word \"majlis\", however, such as the \"majlis\" of the first hostess of an Arab salon - Sukaynah bint al-Husayn - has the specific meaning of assembly, a gathering that might have a more regular or permanent nature in terms of time and place.\" Khaldi goes on to say that the frequenters of the more modern Arab salons were obviously aware of these, and often used both the French and the Arab words to refer to the gatherings, implying the synthesis of both Arab and European influences in the salon culture.\n\nThe history of the literary salon in the Arab world, of which little is known, dates back far longer than one would expect. Sukayna bint Husayn (735 / 743), began running her salon centuries during the Umayyad dynasty, well before the idea was first introduced to seventeenth century Europe. She was a highly regarded woman of great intelligence, and an expert in fashion and literature. She was the first woman to open her house to male and female guests, and organised evenings of music, literary criticism and poetry.\n\nMany of the Arab women who founded literary salons received at least part of their education in Europe or in European missionary schools, and were thus exposed to certain aspects of European culture, including the salon tradition. In this regard, the great impact of the colonial powers and the imposition of their culture and values on the region cannot be underestimated. However, that is by no means to say that the Arab women's literary salon was a passive imitation or export of European ideas. Rather, those men and women who travelled to Europe or who were well-read in European literature selected elements of the European tradition and fused them with the traditional Arab salons of old, which was typical of the Arab Renaissance. Moreover, in 1890, one of the French \"salonnières\", Eugénie Le Brun, chose to hold a salon evening in Cairo in an effort to learn more about women's circles in Egypt, and to encourage the revival of the tradition. \nOne of the salons said to have had an influence is Madame de Rambouillet's salon, which opened in 1618 and was held at the Hôtel de Rambouillet in Paris. It was the first and most famous salon in French history. Rambouillet made sure to distinguish her salon from an Academy, and emphasised entertainment as well as enlightenment. Like the later literary salons in the Arab world, the gatherings bore witness to the mingling of the literary elite, with male intellectuals and middle-class women. In a similar fashion to the salons in Cairo, topics such as religion, philosophy and history would be discussed, but it is noted that Rambouillet \"...made sure the treatment of the subject was not heavy-handed.\" Mayy Ziyadah admired the French \"salonnières\", and made sure to write copious materials on the well-known French hostess, \"habituée\" and prominent woman of aristocratic Parisian society, Madame de Sévigné, who was herself influenced by her time spent at the Hôtel de Rambouillet. The great Egyptian nationalist and writer, Tāhā Husayn, who began attending Ziyadah's salon after she requested Ahmad Lutfi al-Sayyid bring him along on a Tuesday evening, comments on the fusion of Arab and European influences that created the salons of the late nineteenth and twentieth centuries: \"Mayy revives by this salon a long-established Arab practice, just as she transfers to Egypt a long-established European practice, ancient and modern.\"\n\nUnlike salon sessions in England, which sometimes took place during the day or over several days the salons in cities such as Cairo, Jerusalem and Aleppo were usually held in the evening or at night in the family homes of \"salonnières\". One of the less well-known salons in Beirut, for example, was convened on three consecutive full-moon nights each month, where male and female guests stayed awake until dawn, enjoying the entertainment and lively literary discussions. It was the norm for salonnières to invite participants, and with notable exceptions such as Mayy Ziyadah who invited guests from different social standings in order to give young writers the opportunity to show off their talents to a discerning audience, the majority of salons were a space for male and female members of the educated middle class elite. Within the confines of the salon, the free-flow of conversation and reciprocity was encouraged, and a sense of equality was fostered. The salon evenings were also regarded as arbiters of music and literature, as well as places were social and political ideas were aired and discussed, and where guests could embrace new trends and fashions exported from Europe. There was something unique about these salon sessions, according to the historian Keith Watenpaugh, who lends a description of a salon evening:\n\n\"...soirées were unrelated men and women circulated with one another freely, and where Christians and Muslims, who shared a similar educational background, drank and smoked cigarettes—rather than sharing a \"nargileh\" (hookah pipe)—together while they sat in straight back chairs around high tables...\"\n\nThe tone and topics of discussion were usually at the discretion of the \"salonnières\" or hostesses, who administered the conversation. Of course, every salon was slightly different, but most evenings offered a mix of serious and lighthearted conversation, with musical entertainment in some cases. As the conversation flowed, it was not uncommon for guests to colour their conversations with personal anecdotes or local gossip. Indeed, it was thought to be a necessary talent of a successful hostess to encourage such digressions. As these salons were conducted during the Arab Awakening, which advocated a synthesis of tradition and modernity, the use of \"fushā\" (classical Arabic) was emphasised. Unfortunately, specific topics of conversation in the literary salons have remained somewhat of a mystery over the years. However, in \"Yatanaqashun\" (They Discuss), a fictional portrayal of a salon session held in her house in which the subject of 'equality' was discussed at length, Mayy Ziyadah gives a good indication of the content, atmosphere and interactions between male and female participants in her salon.\n\nAntun Sha`arawi also encapsulates the opulent evenings spent in a Syrian salon with his vivid description:\n\n\"Wearing either all black or all white dresses ordered from Paris, Marrash hosted the mixed evening get-togethers in which literary topics as varied as the \"Mu'allaqat\", a cycle of seven pre-Islamic poems or the work of Rabelais were discussed. Chess and card games were played, and complicated poetry competitions took place; wine and \"'araq\" flowed freely; participants sang, danced, and listened to records played on a phonograph.\"\n\nA number of notable men, famous for their ideas and writing frequented the literary salons and contributed to the discussions. Some of them developed friendships with the female hostesses and asked them for their advice and opinions on their work. Among those who visited the salons was the advocate of women's rights and writer, Qāsim Amin; the Islamic reformists, al-Imām Muhammad 'Abduh and Rifā'ah Rāfi' al-Tahtāwī; leader of the Egyptian Wafd party, Sa'd Zaghlul; Lutfī al-Sayyid; the literary critic and journalist, 'Abbas Mahmũd al-'Aqqād; the Syrian poet, Khalil Mutrān; the journalist Muhammad Husayn Haykal; the poet Ahmad Shawqī; the Egyptian Prime Minister Boutros Ghālī and the Egyptian nationalist and writer, Tāhā Husayn. Several of these men published articles and books on women's rights; including Rifā'ah Rāfi' al-Tahtāwi and Qāsim Amin, who is said to have found the inspiration for his seminal works, \"Tahrir al-Mar'ah\" (The Liberation of Women) and \"al-Mar'ah al-Jadidah\" (The New Woman) in Princess Nāzlī al-Fādil's salon.\n\nMaryana Marrash's salon, the first salon in the nineteenth-century revival movement, was run from the house she shared with her husband in Aleppo. The habitual gathering offered a private realm in which male and female guests could mingle, network, and discuss the fashionable topics of the time. Marrash would often entertain her guests by singing and playing the piano. Regulars at the salon included prominent literary figures and politicians, such as Abd al-Rahman al-Kawakibi, Qustaki al-Himsi, Rizqallah Hassun, Kamil al-Ghazzi and Victor Khayyat.\n\nNāzlī Fādil was one of the first women to revive the tradition of the literary salon and contributed immeasurably to the cause of women's emancipation in the Arab world. She began to invite guests to her Cairo salon towards the end of the nineteenth century, although the absence of female participants in her salon evenings should be noted. Like Maryana Marrash, Fādil added to the ambience in her salon by playing the piano, while one of her male guests sang and her Tunisian maid danced. The men who frequented her salon were prominent in Egyptian and Arab society; including statesmen, diplomats, journalists and literary figures. Among the regular visitors to her salon was the renowned Islamic Reformist thinker, Sheikh Mohammed 'Abduh, as well as Qāsim Amin, Boutros Ghali and Saad Zaghloul, to name but a few.\n\nIn 1880, the Lebanese writer Maryam Nimr Makariyus established the Dawn of Syria literary society in Beirut.\n\nThis literary society was founded by Muslim women in Beirut in 1914.\n\nKaty Antonius ran what has been described as 'the focal point of Jerusalem social life' from the home she shared with her husband - the celebrated Arab nationalist, George Antonius - during the Mandate period. The salon provided local journalists, officials, officers, politicians and European diplomats with an opportunity to network and discuss the latest literary, social and political issues. Her parties have been described as 'elaborate affairs' with 'evening dress, Syrian food and drink, and dancing on the marble floor.' From time to time Antonius invited the boys from her orphanage to her salon evenings, as well as her array of famous guests.\n\nShortly before the outbreak of the First World War, Mayy Ziyadah began to host well-known men and women from intellectual, literary and political circles across the Arab world. Meetings were held at her family home, the first salon in Cairo in which men and women met together in the same room. In terms of etiquette, Ziyadah maintained a 'tactful correspondence' with guests of her salon, who were expected to inform her of their attendance through letters as a matter of courtesy. She and her guests also published letters they wrote from conversations in the salon.\n\nA Syrian Christian journalist, Salim Sarkis, a typical representative of the educated middle class clientele who used to frequent the gatherings, attended Ziyadah's salon, which was held on Tuesday evenings for twenty-three years, 1913–1936. The influence of Ziyadah's time spent in the salons of France is obvious, with Sarkis comparing her to notable French \"salonnières\". The journalist gives the reader a rare insight into the atmosphere of the salon in the following description:\n\nThe salon evenings ended after her mother's death in 1932, as social pressure would not permit an unmarried woman to enjoy the company of men without members of her family present. A eulogy by Syrian poet Khalil Mutran mourned Ziyadah's death and the passing of her salon:\n\nSha`arawi's salon only met sporadically, but was well-attended by many famous political figures and intellectuals; including Ahmad Shawqi, Gabriel Taqlā and Muhammad Husayn Haykal. She loved music, and would often play the piano long into the night whilst in her salon. Sha`arawi used to award a literary prize every year, and would also encourage young writers from her salon by sending them to study in Europe at her own expense.\n\nThe Damascus Women's Literary Club was founded by Mary Ajami around 1920, and was aimed at strengthening the bonds between women. It held public meetings, giving its members a platform on which to air their views on literary and political issues. Occasionally they discussed politics, but they were mainly interested in reviving classical Arabic literature and familiarising themselves with modern Western thought. According to Joseph T. Zeidan, those who frequented the salon were treated to the melodic tones of Mary’s sister’s piano playing, as well as the insightful and witty comments of Mary herself, who was \".. highly praised for her ability to run the intellectual discourse and was acknowledged as a ‘skilled talker’\".\n\nThurayya Al-Hafez, a school teacher and popular feminist, launched a salon evening in her house in Damascus in 1953. The salon was named after Sukaynah Bint Al-Husayn, the first Arab woman to host a salon. It was open to both men and women, though only the latter were in charge of running the proceedings. Its objectives included \"...raising literary and artistic standards, creating strong bonds and cooperation among its members, publishing their works, translating Western literary works into Arabic, and translating Arabic literature into foreign languages. It continued to run until 1963, when its founder moved to Egypt.\n\n\nIn the 1960s, women and their ideas started to become part of the mainstream culture, and thus the important role of women-run salons declined in its importance. That said, The Women's Literary Club, which was founded by Mary 'Ajami in 1922, continues to run in Damascus, and was attended regularly by the novelist Ulfat Idilbi until her death in 2007.\n\nIn 2010, a new weekly salon evening for young male and female writers and literary enthusiasts was launched in the basement of a hotel in Damascus. The popular event held on Monday evenings, named Bayt al-Qasid (House of Poetry), is an opportunity for new voices rather than established poets or writers, and attracts both Syrians and foreigners.\n\n"}
{"id": "6068435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6068435", "title": "Workers' Memorial Day", "text": "Workers' Memorial Day\n\nWorkers' Memorial Day, International Workers' Memorial Day or International Commemoration Day (ICD) for Dead and Injured or Day of Mourning takes place annually around the world on April 28, an international day of remembrance and action for workers killed, disabled, injured or made unwell by their work.\n\nWorkers' Memorial Day is an opportunity to highlight the preventable nature of most workplace incidents and ill health and to promote campaigns and union organisation in the fight for improvements in workplace safety. The slogan for the day is \"Remember the dead – Fight for the living.\"\n\nAlthough April 28 is used as the focal point for remembrance and a day of international solidarity, campaigning and other related activities continue throughout the year right around the world.\n\nIn 1970, the AFL-CIO declared April 28 “Workers' Memorial Day” to honour the hundreds of thousands of working people killed and injured on the job every year. Following the passage of the Occupational Safety and Health Act by the U.S. Congress in 1970, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration was formed in 1971. In 1984, the Canadian Union of Public Employees (CUPE) did the same in Canada. The Canadian Labour Congress declared an annual day of remembrance in 1985 on April 28, which is the anniversary of a comprehensive Workers' Compensation Act (refer to the entry Workplace Safety & Insurance Board), passed in 1914. In 1991, the Canadian parliament passed an Act respecting a National Day of Mourning for persons killed or injured in the workplace, making April 28 an official Workers’ Mourning Day. \n\nFor years Workers' Memorial Day events have been organised in North America, and then worldwide. Since 1989, trade unions in North America, Asia, Europe and Africa have organised events on April 28. The late Hazards Campaigner Tommy Harte brought Workers' Memorial Day to the UK in 1992 as a day to \"‘Remember the Dead: Fight for the Living’. \" In the UK the campaign for Workers’ Memorial Day has been championed by the Hazards Campaign and taken up by trade unions, adopted by Scotland's TUC in 1993, followed by the TUC in 1999 and the Health and Safety Commission and Health and Safety Executive in 2000.\n\nApril 28 is recognised by the International Labour Organization (ILO) and the International Trade Union Confederation (ITUC) as International Workers' Memorial Day. In 1996 the ICFTU commemorated Workers' Memorial Day and began to set annual 'themes'. For 2006 the ICFTU theme was \"Union workplaces: safer workplaces\", focusing on a global ban on asbestos and increased awareness of HIV/AIDS. During 2001 the ILO, part of the United Nations, recognised Workers' Memorial Day and declared it World Day for Safety and Health at Work and in 2002 the ILO announced that April 28 should be an official day in the United Nations system.\n\nWorkers' Memorial Day is recognised as a national day in many countries including: Australia, Argentina, Belgium, Bermuda, Brazil, Canada, Dominican Republic, Gibraltar, Ireland, Luxembourg, Panama, Peru, Portugal, Spain, Thailand, Taiwan, United States and the United Kingdom. Trade unions in other countries including Benin, Czech Republic, Finland, Hungary, Malta, Nepal, New Zealand, Romania and Singapore are pursuing government recognition.\n\nWorkers’ Memorial Day is now an international day of remembrance of workers killed in incidents at work, or by diseases caused by work, and annually on April 28, Workers' Memorial Day events are held throughout the world. Some examples include active campaigning, and workplace awareness events. Public events include speeches, multi-faith religious services, laying wreaths, planting trees, unveiling monuments, balloon releases, raising public awareness of issues and laying out empty shoes to symbolise those who have died at work.\n\nWorld Day for Safety and Health at Work is a UN international day that is celebrated every April 28. It is concerned about safe work and awareness of the dimensions and consequences of work-related accidents and diseases; to place occupational safety and health (OSH) on the international and national agendas; and to provide support to the national efforts for the improvement of national OSH systems and programmes in line with relevant international labour standards.\n\nThe 2011 World Day for Safety and Health at Work focuses on the implementation of an Occupational Safety and Health Management System (OSHMS) as a tool for continual improvement in the prevention of workplace incidents and accidents.\n\nBangladesh Garment Sramik Sanghati, an organisation working for the welfare of garment workers, has requested that April 24 be declared Labour Safety Day in Bangladesh, in memory of the victims of the Rana Plaza building collapse.\n\n\nThe National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) conducts research and makes recommendations to prevent work-related injury, illness, and death. Additionally, NIOSH collaborates with other federal agencies, academic institutions, industry, and labour and professional organisations to move research into effective injury and illness prevention practices. As part of its national effort to protect workers from injury and illness, and in conjunction with Workers’ Memorial Day efforts globally, NIOSH contributes relevant data, case reports, and other findings from its surveillance and research activities to the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) prepared and published by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).\n\nAccording to the International Labour Organization (ILO), across the world:\n\n\n\n"}
