{"id": "43673658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43673658", "title": "2017–18 Bergen County eruv controversy", "text": "2017–18 Bergen County eruv controversy\n\nIn July 2017 the municipalities of Mahwah, Upper Saddle River and Montvale in Bergen County, New Jersey, in the United States, opposed extension of an eruv within their borders. An eruv is a land area surrounded by a boundary of religious significance, often marked by small plastic pipes (called \"lechis\") attached to utility poles. The demarcation permits Orthodox Jews to push or carry objects (such as prayer books, keys or baby strollers) within the eruv on the Jewish Sabbath, in a way that is otherwise considered forbidden under Orthodox Jewish law. Other Jewish denominations, such as Reform or Reconstructionist, do not hold such views.\n\nThe three municipalities ordered that the borders of the eruv be dismantled having been erected without the appropriate consents. Many Mahwah residents angrily protested against the prospect of Orthodox Jews from Rockland County, New York, using local parks or seeking to buy homes there.\n\nAfter no agreement could be reached short of litigation, the eruv association brought suit against each of the municipalities. Mahwah's actions in passing a township ordinance to bar nonresidents of New Jersey from its parks, and the hostility of some residents and council members towards those who supported the eruv led Democratic candidate for Governor of New Jersey Phil Murphy and others to make accusations of anti-Semitism. The presiding judge in the lawsuits, John Michael Vazquez, in January 2018 made it clear he felt the municipalities did not have a strong case, and urged them to settle. The three municipalities have settled with the eruv association, allowing the eruv borders to remain. Mahwah has settled a lawsuit from the New Jersey Attorney General accusing it of discrimination.\n\nThe township of Mahwah, and the boroughs of Upper Saddle River and Montvale, are neighboring municipalities in northwestern Bergen County, New Jersey. All three are adjacent to the state line with New York, on the other side of which is Rockland County, where there are large communities of Orthodox Jews.\n\nAn eruv (plural \"eruvin\", or sometimes \"eruvim\") is an enclosure defined by string, rope, wires, cables, etc., that allows observant Jews, including the Orthodox, to carry or push objects further than is normally permitted on the Jewish Sabbath (or Shabbat). Normally, on Shabbat, an object may not be taken from a private domain, such as a house, into a public one, such as a street or sidewalk, or moved, in a public area, more than 4 cubits (about 6 feet; 1.7 meters). Note that \"domain\" is a technical term referring to how enclosed an area is, not property ownership.\n\nObjects may be moved freely if they remain within a private domain, and an eruv effectively extends the private domain through the area it encloses, including streets and sidewalks. The boundary of an eruv is often marked by utility poles surrounding a given area, with the space between regarded as doorways, topped by lintels, the telephone or power wires. The poles are regarded as doorposts, and are marked by lechis (singular: lechi), solid objects such as lengths of twine or of plastic pipe, which run from near the ground to just below the wires. In short, the act of stringing such a boundary around a public area by a Jewish community creates the pretense for its members that that public area is enclosed for the limited purpose of allowing the members to do some otherwise forbidden things in that public area on the Sabbath.\n\nThere are many requirements for eruvin; the Talmud devotes an entire tractate to the subject. This complexity makes rabbinic supervision and regular inspection mandatory. An operating eruv allows observant Jews to carry prayer books from home to synagogue on Shabbat, or to push strollers or baby carriages.\nIn Teaneck, in southeastern Bergen County and home to large numbers of Orthodox Jews, an eruv has existed since the 1970s with little controversy, and, as the Jewish population increased, was extended to nearby Bogota and Bergenfield. Other eruvin in Bergen County are in Fair Lawn and in Paramus.\n\nA previous instance in which an eruv had been constructed in Bergen County, and had been challenged by local authorities, occurred in Tenafly, in the eastern part of the county. Attempts by municipal authorities to ban eruvin had failed when challenged in the federal courts, and the settlement in 2006 after a six-year battle obliged the borough to pay $325,000 for the eruv association's legal costs. In some cases involving conflict over whether an eruv should be permitted, the municipality has lost and the construction of the eruv allowed to continue.\n\nOrthodox Jews in Rockland County gained a license from Orange and Rockland Utilities (which serves parts of both Rockland County in New York and Bergen County in New Jersey) to construct an eruv using its utility poles in 2015, and in March 2017 the company granted permission for the South Monsey Eruv Fund to install lechis, made from white PVC pipe, on its utility poles in northwestern Bergen County. This was an extension of an existing eruv in Rockland County, and was intended to run through Mahwah, Upper Saddle River and Montvale. According to Rabbi Chaim Steinmetz, head of the eruv association, the purpose was to accommodate those living in Rockland County close to the border, near New York State Route 59. The boundaries had to be run through New Jersey due to the lack of a road along the state line. Mahwah police noted construction being done on utility poles in May and made inquiries. On learning that Orange and Rockland had authorized the work, they provided police protection, for which the department was paid about $2,000 by the eruv fund. The work in Mahwah was complete by June.\n\nWhen the matter became generally known in mid-July, there was what local reporter Tom Nobile called a \"firestorm of opposition\" from local residents, with some expressing concerns that the eruv would allow Orthodox communities in Rockland County to expand into New Jersey. Groups formed on social media, including one named Mahwah Strong, in opposition to the eruv. Mahwah Strong claimed 3,000 members within days; a founder, Robert Ferguson, stated that his group would act as a check and balance to ensure the township enforced its laws, and noted, \"I don't view this as a hostile takeover of the town.\" Two hundred people gathered in a Mahwah park on July 22 to support the eruv's removal. An online petition to \"Protect the Quality of Our Community in Mahwah\", initiated by former township council member John Roth, reached 1,200 names before being taken down due to what Roth called inappropriate comments, made by some signers. Similarly, Mahwah Strong lost its Facebook page following an influx of comments deemed \"hateful\".\n\nIn early July 2017, the eruv was completed in part of Upper Saddle River. Montvale acted first against the eruv, with Mayor Michael Ghassali issuing a stop work order on July 10, after the eruv association had rented equipment and arranged with local police to provide security. Montvale authorities objected on the grounds that the lechis constituted a sign, forbidden by borough ordinance. This was done prior to construction with the result that the eruv did not extend into Montvale. On July 18, Upper Saddle River's attorney sent a letter demanding the removal of the lechis that had been erected there, with a deadline of July 26, but the borough agreed to let them remain for the time being after two New York State residents filed suit in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey in Newark, requesting a temporary restraining order against the borough and Mayor Joanne Minichetti. The borough's agreement was in exchange for an undertaking from the eruv association not to expand the eruv, and the motion for a restraining order was withdrawn. The eruv was vandalized on July 26 and 27, requiring immediate repair work. Mahwah's township engineer, Mike Kelly, sent a letter to the eruv association on July 21, taking a stance similar to Montvale's, and demanding the removal of the eruv by August 4. Mayor Bill Laforet stated, \"This sends a very strong message to those who choose to violate our sign ordinances.\"\n\nOn June 29, the Mahwah Township Council had passed an ordinance, effective July 27, barring nonresidents of New Jersey from its parks. Residents had complained that out-of-staters were flooding Mahwah's parks, sometimes by the busload. After the ordinance passed, but before it went into effect, Mahwah police chief James Batelli received many phone calls from residents asking that it be enforced against Orthodox Jews. He contacted the Bergen County Prosecutor, Gurbir Grewal, for advice. On July 27, the date the ordinance was to go into effect, Grewal issued a directive ordering Mahwah police to disregard the ban, stating that the ban could lead to racial profiling, unlawful searches and seizures and the illegal targeting of Orthodox Jews. In response, Rob Hermansen, president of the township council, stated that that body would rework the ordinance to continue putting Mahwah residents first.\n\nWhen the Mahwah Township Council met on the evening of July 27, it did so before an overflow crowd. Despite warnings from the township attorney not to discuss issues of religion, some did. Others complained of nonresidents crowding parks, and that they had been visited by people wanting to buy their homes. The lawyer for Mahwah Strong urged the council to enforce the law by requiring the takedown of the eruv. Ferguson was quoted as saying at the meeting, \"We do not not want these people living in our neighborhoods. We want them following the law.\"\n\nAs the eruv controversy intensified, Mahwah and Montvale, as well as neighboring boroughs, enacted or made stricter ordinances restricting those making unsolicited offers to buy houses from knocking on doors. Municipal officials stated that this was being done because of the concerns of residents, who feared the Orthodox moving in would result in a population explosion, that the schools would suffer, and high-density housing built. Residents cited Lakewood in Ocean County as an example of such problems.\n\nTo a standing ovation from some 200 residents in attendance, the Mahwah council on August 10 unanimously voted to issue summonses because the eruv had not been taken down. Mayor Laforet, though, urged the council not to take this step, pointing to the large expense the unsuccessful eruv litigation had cost Tenafly, and advocated negotiation. In response to the council's action, the Bergen-Rockland Eruv Association (of which the South Monsey group is a part) and several Orthodox Jews resident in Rockland County filed suit in federal court against Mahwah on August 11, and promised to defy any summonses. Residents of Teaneck and Englewood, each in southeastern Bergen County and home to large communities of Orthodox Jews, had gone to Mahwah and Upper Saddle River to make known their views at council meetings. Council members from Teaneck and Englewood had spoken there in support of the eruv's retention, only to meet a hostile reception. Citizens for a Better Upper Saddle River posted a screenshot of the Teaneck council schedule online, urging members to mark their calendars with the dates. Council member Mark Schwartz of Teaneck stated that visitors would be welcome, and could view how a diverse community functioned. Michael Cohen of the Englewood council stated, \"We have repeatedly attempted to communicate to the leadership of Upper Saddle River and Mahwah why it is that the rhetoric and actions being seen and taken by certain members of their governing bodies and by certain members of their communities are being viewed by the outside world as anti-Semitic. However, those attempts have largely continued to fall on deaf ears.\"\n\nFollowing failed settlement negotiations and a closed-door council meeting on October 10, the Bergen-Rockland Eruv Association and individual plaintiffs sued Montvale on October 18, alleging that Mayor Ghassali's stop work order inhibited them in practicing their religion. They cited a 2015 statement from then-mayor Roger Fyfe, from when rumors of an eruv had first circulated, that an eruv was a simple accommodation and a matter in which the borough had only a slight part. The plaintiffs also alleged that Mahwah and Upper Saddle River were aware of the eruv construction, but had no problem with it until they gave in to a campaign of xenophobia and anti-Semitism. The next day, the Democratic candidate for governor, Phil Murphy, accused the residents of Mahwah of causing an \"overarching perception of anti-Semitism and discrimination\". According to Murphy, \"When a Holocaust survivor at a public meeting is heckled, and then denounced as a fraud, there is a problem. When well-intentioned residents are disparaged as 'paid actors' for a 'Jewish money conspiracy scheme' there is a problem.\"\n\nOn October 24, the Attorney General of New Jersey, Christopher Porrino, sued Mahwah and its council, alleging that by voting for the parks ban and for the summonses, they had violated the constitutional rights of Orthodox Jews. The case, filed in state court in Hackensack, sought nullification of the council's actions, statutory penalties, attorney's fees, and the return of $3.5 million in state-provided Green Acres funds with which Mahwah had purchased and maintained parks. Under the Green Acres program, parks benefitting from the funds may not discriminate, including on the basis of religion or residency. Porrino stated, \"To think that there are local governments here in New Jersey, in 2017, making laws on the basis of some archaic, fear-driven and discriminatory mindset, is deeply disappointing and shocking to many, but it is exactly what we are alleging in this case. Of course, in this case we allege the target of the small-minded bias is not African-Americans, but Orthodox Jews. Nonetheless, the hateful message is the same.\" Mayor Laforet accused Council President Hermansen of fear-mongering and stoking passions, \"His disgraceful behavior is now worsened by the severe potential financial penalties facing the township's taxpayer.\" In the municipal election on November 7, Mahwah voters easily re-elected two anti-eruv council members, defeating challengers supported by Laforet. The case was removed from state to federal court by Mahwah on November 22 as it raised questions under the federal constitution. On December 1, the council voted unanimously to allocate $175,000 to fight the lawsuits, which supplemented the $90,000 previously appropriated.\n\nIn the Upper Saddle River case, on October 10, 2017, the eruv association moved for a preliminary injunction allowing the eruv to remain pending the outcome of the litigation. In support, the association provided documentation showing that Mayor Minichetti had told the borough council about the proposed eruv in 2015, and the new sign ordinance had rapidly followed. In response to the motion, filed on November 2, Upper Saddle River stated that the sign law was tightened because of a divisive municipal election in 2014, that had seen many signs. The borough argued that the lawsuit was premature, as the eruv association had not sought permission. It argued that it had not violated the constitutional rights of the plaintiffs; its sign ordinance was content-neutral, banning all signs of whatever sort, and thus the plaintiffs had not been discriminated against. It alleged that permission to erect the lechis from Orange and Rockland was insufficient; the eruv association also had to comply with local law, and in any event the communications company Verizon had joint use of the poles and had not been asked for consent. Upper Saddle River distinguished its situation from that of Tenafly, stating that in Tenafly, exceptions had been made to the sign ordinance, but in Upper Saddle River it had been strictly enforced. Towards the end of December, Montvale Mayor Ghassali indicated that his borough was negotiating with the plaintiffs, seeking to reach an amicable settlement of the federal lawsuit.\n\nMurphy was elected governor in November and designated Bergen County Prosecutor Grewal as the new Attorney General. Thus, once they took office, opponents of Mahwah's position would hold powerful posts in the state capital of Trenton, and municipal officials began to have second thoughts about whether to fight the eruv. On December 14, 2017, following the advice of legal counsel, the Mahwah council repealed the still-unenforced ban on out-of-state park users, and abandoned an attempt to amend the sign ordinance to bar \"other matter\" (the lechis) from being affixed to utility poles. The \"other matter\" language would have imitated the 2015 changes to the Upper Saddle River sign law which had followed Minichetti informing the borough council about the plans for the eruv, and was withdrawn, according to Hermansen, lest Mahwah's motives be misinterpreted. The vote to repeal the park ban was unanimous, with one council member absent. After the vote, Laforet called the ordinances \"ill-advised\" before being silenced by the council. He resumed outside the council chamber and disclosed that the members could have faced prosecution. \"They are hiding from you that if they failed to do so, the Attorney General can come into Mahwah to press civil or criminal bias charges. For people who did a lot of shouting, and shouting down the past several months, they are strangely quiet about that.\"\n\nThe Upper Saddle River lawsuit was scheduled for argument before Judge John Michael Vazquez of the federal court for New Jersey. When he convened that hearing on January 9, 2018, rather than hear the lawyers argue the positions set forth in the legal briefs, Judge Vazquez told them his views. He questioned whether the borough had consistently enforced the ordinance, as plaintiffs' lawyers had discovered a number of signs and even mailboxes attached to utility poles, that Upper Saddle River had not taken down. The judge voiced his skepticism that the 2015 sign ordinance had been passed because of a contentious municipal election the previous year, as the borough maintained, and indicated that he was inclined to believe it was passed because of the eruv. He urged Upper Saddle River to try to settle the case, and to do so in coordination with the other two municipalities—he was also presiding judge in those cases.\n\nOn January 30, 2018, the Mahwah council voted 5–2 to accept a negotiated settlement of the eruv litigation, despite some residents who urged the council to fight all the way to the Supreme Court. Council President Hermansen supported the deal as the best possible outcome, \"We're trying to do the right thing. This is a good town with good people, and we're making this decision for good people.\" He wrote on Facebook that Mahwah \"should be known more for our open space, parks and our overall community than the negative comments made about our residents from outsiders.\" The terms of the settlement were not announced at that meeting as the deal was still pending agreement by the plaintiffs, but were disclosed the following day. The eruv is to remain, but the lechis were to be painted to match the pole, or replaced with ones of that color, The township was to pay the association $10,000 or such other sum as mutually agreed for legal fees. The association may expand the eruv, but is to consult with the council before doing so. On February 7, a public meeting that was called for that day to discuss the terms of the settlement was postponed to a future date on the advice of the township's attorneys. \n\nMontvale also undertook negotiations with the eruv association plaintiffs. Some Montvale residents sought to minimize the land covered by the eruv within the borough by having the boundary run through backyards close to the state line, but the consent of all landowners could not be obtained. On February 13, the Montvale council voted to approve a settlement whereby the eruv boundary would be placed on streets in the northern part of the borough, and efforts will be made to reroute it through private land. Montvale will pay the eruv association attorneys at Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP $10,000 towards legal costs and be shielded from further lawsuits from it for two years. Yehudah Buchweitz, an attorney for the eruv association, stated: \"Our lawsuit against Montvale was filed to permit an eruv in a small portion of Montvale, so families could enjoy the same religious freedom as so many others throughout Bergen and Rockland counties and beyond. This settlement preserves and protects the people's right to have an eruv.\" A map showing the eruv boundary's route through Montvale was posted on the borough website on March 1, 2018.\nAfter a closed-door meeting, the Upper Saddle River Borough Council voted on January 15 to attempt to reach a settlement with the plaintiffs. On February 21, the borough announced over its emergency notification system that it had reached a tentative agreement whereby the eruv boundary would be run along the roads until it could be relocated as close to the state line as possible. The borough stated that the agreement was being entered into \"because of a variety of reasons outside of the Borough’s control, including the recent settlements by Mahwah and Montvale\". The borough agreed to pay $75,000 towards the eruv association's legal costs. The agreement went into force on April 5, 2018. Under the agreement, 12 poles are to be erected on the municipal right-of-way to allow the eruv boundary to run on a shortened route through the borough, close to the state line. The lechis are to be made of black plastic, and the eruv association may not ask for a change of route for three years.\n\nOn February 15, 2018, Judge Vazquez accepted the Mahwah and Montvale settlements, and on April 19, that of Upper Saddle River. He retains continuing jurisdiction over the matters, and they can be re-opened if a dispute arises. A temporary eruv boundary was run across the original Upper Saddle River route, pending a final routing. On July 17, 2018, Upper Saddle River posted maps and stated that work on implementing the settlement would occur over the following several weeks. \nIn September 2018, a settlement between the Attorney General and Mahwah was announced. The township is to repeal the two controversial ordinances and agreed not to enact the new sign ordinance and to notify the Attorney General of any proposed legislation on these subjects for the following four years. The mayor and council are to issue a joint statement affirming that the existing sign ordinance, and those dealing with parks and recreation, will be enforced in a nondiscriminatory manner. A breach by Mahwah within the four year period could result in penalties of $100,000; a proposed $350,000 fine was suspended.\n\nOn November 6, 2018, Mahwah voters recalled Laforet from office, electing John Roth in his place. Hermansen was defeated for re-election, with Robert Ferguson among those elected to the new council.\n\n"}
{"id": "38570018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38570018", "title": "Agang South Africa", "text": "Agang South Africa\n\nAgang South Africa is a South African political party, formed by anti-apartheid activist Mamphela Ramphele on 18 February 2013, although the party claims on its website that it was founded on 22 June 2013, which was the date of the party's first official congress.\n\nThe party encourages reforms towards direct governance, striving to \"build a stronger democracy in which citizens will be at the centre of public life\"; and intends to challenge the governing African National Congress in the 2014 general election. \"Agang\" is a Setswana word meaning \"let us build\".\n\nOn 28 January 2014, the Democratic Alliance (DA) announced that Ramphele had accepted an invitation to stand as its presidential candidate in the 2014 general election, and the DA and Agang were set to merge. On 31 January 2014, Ramphele stated that she would not take up DA party membership and would remain the leader of Agang, resulting in confusion. On 2 February 2014, Helen Zille stated that Ramphele had reneged on her agreement to stand as the DA's presidential candidate. Ramphele subsequently apologised for the reversal of her decision, saying that the timing was not right as the reaction to it had shown people were unable to overcome race-based party politics. On 9 February 2014, following statements by Helen Zille that donor funding issues were behind the failed merger, Ramphele named business magnate Nathan Kirsh as a funder of Agang and said he would continue to fund the new party.\n\nIn the 2014 election, the party received 52,350 votes, or 0.28% of the total, and won two seats in the National Assembly of South Africa. Following internal conflict within the party, Ramphele announced her withdrawal from politics on 8 July 2014.\n\nThe following aims are listed on the party's website:\n\nAgang SA national leadership team as announced at the launch of the party’s manifesto in Atteridgeville, outside Pretoria on 8 March 2014.\n\n\n! Election\n! Total votes\n! Share of vote\n! Seats \n! Government\n! 2014 \n\n! rowspan=2 | Election\n! colspan=2 | Eastern Cape\n! colspan=2 | Free State\n! colspan=2 | Gauteng\n! colspan=2 | Kwazulu-Natal\n! colspan=2 | Limpopo\n! colspan=2 | Mpumalanga\n! colspan=2 | North-West\n! colspan=2 | Northern Cape\n! colspan=2 | Western Cape\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! 2014\n\n! Election\n! Votes\n! 2016\n"}
{"id": "16181144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16181144", "title": "Anthony Bamford", "text": "Anthony Bamford\n\nAnthony Paul Bamford, Baron Bamford, DL (born 23 October 1945) is a British businessman, chairman of JCB. He succeeded his father, Joseph Cyril Bamford, as chairman and managing director of JCB in 1975, at the age of 30. He was knighted in 1990 at the age of 45. His wealth was estimated at £3.1 billion as of April 2012.\n\nBamford was educated at Ampleforth College, a boarding independent school near the village and civil parish of Ampleforth in the Ryedale district of North Yorkshire, England (about north of York, and on the edge of the North York Moors National Park), followed by the University of Grenoble, a former university in the city of Grenoble, France.\n\nBamford has been outspoken on the need for the Government to champion manufacturing in the UK and commissioned a report in 2012 on the subject which was sent directly to David Cameron. He was elevated to the House of Lords in August 2013.\n\nBamford expressed an interest in purchasing Jaguar Cars in August 2006, but backed out when he was told the sale would also involve Land Rover, which he did not wish to buy.\n\nBamford is married to Carole, Lady Bamford, OBE.\n\nOutside of business, Bamford is a well-known collector of early vintage Ferraris, and is the only individual to own two Ferrari 250 GTOs. He was also once the owner of a 1954 Mercedes-Benz W196 grand prix car raced by the five-time world champion Juan Manuel Fangio of Argentina.\n\nIn 1974, he sued the then MP Jeffrey Archer for bankruptcy after Archer failed to repay a £172,000 loan. Archer had lost the money in a fraudulent share scam. Archer later repaid the money from his earnings as a novelist and Bamford subsequently withdrew the bankruptcy notice.\n\nBamford is a major donor to the Conservative Party and donated £1m before the 2010 General Election. Altogether, Bamford has donated more than £4m personally and through JCB companies.\n\nPrime Minister David Cameron recommended Bamford for a peerage in 2010. However, Bamford withdrew his name from consideration days before the members were announced.\n\nOn 3 October 2013 he was created a life peer taking the title Baron Bamford, of Daylesford in the County of Gloucestershire and of Wootton in the County of Staffordshire.\n\nIn June 2016, Bamford wrote a letter in support of voting to leave the European Union to his employees. JCB has donated £100,000 to the Vote Leave campaign. In 2000, JCB was fined £22m (€39.6m) by the EU for antitrust breaches.\n\nBamford is also close to Tony Blair and Prince Charles.\n\nBamford owns mansions in several countries (including in England Daylesford House and Wootton Lodge), a yacht and vintage cars. Although he was linked to offshore tax havens in the Panama papers through sole ownership of Casper Ltd., the company was inactive for its entire existence before being dissolved in 2012.\n"}
{"id": "315929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=315929", "title": "Calendar reform", "text": "Calendar reform\n\nCalendar reform, properly calendrical reform, is any significant revision of a calendar system. The term sometimes is used instead for a proposal to switch to a different calendar design.\n\nThe prime objective of a calendar is to unambiguously identify any day throughout history by a specific date. \nPeriods that contain multiple days, like weeks, months and even years, are secondary features of a calendar for convenience.\nMost cultures adopt a primary dating system, but different cultures have always needed to align multiple calendars with each other, because they coexisted in the same space (e.g. secular and religious groups with different demands) or had established trading relations. \nOnce specified, a \"calendar design\" cannot be altered without becoming a new one, but if a design is sufficiently close to the one used before in the local \"calendar system\", switching to it and hence a calendar reform is possible without disruption. \nSome design changes, however, will yield date identifiers different from the previous design for some days, often in the distant past or future. \nThe calendar system must clarify whether dates are changed to the new design retroactively (using a \"proleptic calendar\") or whether the design in use then and there shall be respected. \nCalendar schisms happen if not all cultures that adopted a common calendar system before perform a calendar reform at the same time. \nIf date identifiers are similar but different, confusion and mistakes are unavoidable. \nMost calendars have several rules which could be altered by reform:\n\nHistorically, most calendar reforms have been made in order to synchronize the calendar with the astronomical year (either solar or sidereal) and/or the synodic month in lunar or lunisolar calendars. Most reforms for calendars have been to make them more accurate. This has happened to various lunar and lunisolar calendars, and also the Julian calendar when it was altered to the Gregorian calendar.\n\nThe fundamental problems of the calendar are that the astronomical year has neither a whole number of days nor a whole number of lunar months; neither does the lunar month have a whole number of days: in each case there are fractions \"left over\". (In some physical circumstances the rotations and revolutions of a planet and its satellite(s) can be phase-locked —for example the same side of the moon always faces us— but this has not operated to lock together the lengths of the Earth's year, day and month.) Such remainders could accumulate from one period to the next, thereby driving the cycles out of synch.\n\nA typical solution to force synchronization is 'intercalation'. This means occasionally adding an extra day (or month) into the cycle. An alternative approach is to ignore the mismatch and simply let the cycles continue to drift apart. The general approaches include:\n\n\nAn obvious disadvantage of the lunisolar method of inserting a whole extra month is the large irregularity of the length of the year from one to the next. The simplicity of a lunar calendar has always been outweighed by its inability to track the seasons, and a solar calendar is used in conjunction to remedy this defect. Identifying the lunar cycle month requires straightforward observation of the Moon on a clear night. However, identifying seasonal cycles requires much more methodical observation of stars or a device to track solar day-to-day progression, such as that established at places like Stonehenge. After centuries of empirical observations, the theoretical aspects of calendar construction could become more refined, enabling predictions that identified the need for reform.\n\nThere have been 50 to 100 reforms of the traditional Chinese calendar over 2500 years, most of which were intended to better fit the calendar months to astronomical lunations and to more accurately add the extra month so that the regular months maintain their proper seasonal positions, even though each seasonal marker can occur anywhere within its month.\nThere have been at least four similar reforms of the lunisolar version of the Hindu calendar, all intended to make the month a better match to the lunation and to make the year a better fit to the \"sidereal\" year. There have been reforms of the \"solar\" version of the Hindu calendar which changed the distribution of the days in each month to better match the length of time that the Sun spends in each \"sidereal\" zodiacal sign. The same applies to the Buddhist calendar. The first millennium reform of the Hebrew calendar changed it from an observational calendar into a calculated calendar. The Islamic calendar was a reform of the preceding lunisolar calendar which completely divorced it from the solar year.\n\nAnother reform was performed in Seljuk Persia by Omar Khayyam and others, developing the precisely computed Jalali calendar.\n\nWhen Julius Caesar took power in Rome, the Roman calendar had ceased to reflect the year accurately.\n\nThe Julian reform lengthened seven months and replaced the intercalary month with an intercalary day to be inserted within February every four years. This produced a noticeably more accurate calendar, but it had an average year length of 365 days and 6 hours (365.25 d). This had the effect of adding about three-quarters of an hour every four years. The effect accumulated from inception in 45 BC until by the 16th century the northward equinox was falling on March 10 or 11.\n\nUnder Pope Gregory XIII, the leap year rule was altered: century years which are not divisible by 400 would be common years. So 1700, 1800, 1900, 2100, 2200, 2300 and 2500 are not leap years. This rule makes the mean year 365.2425 days long. While this does not synchronize the years entirely, it would require a few thousand years to accumulate a day.\n\nSo that the northward equinox would have the same date in the new Gregorian calendar as it had when the Council of Nicaea made recommendations in AD 325 (), ten days were dropped so that became in 1582. This reform took a few centuries to spread through the nations that used the Julian calendar, although the Russian church year still uses the Julian calendar. Those nations that adopted this calendar on or after 1700 had to drop more than ten days: Great Britain, for instance, dropped eleven.\n\nIn 1923, Milutin Milanković proposed to a synod of some Eastern Orthodox Churches at Constantinople that only those centennial years (those ending in 00) that leave a remainder of 200 or 600 upon division by 900 would be leap years, decreasing the average year length to 365.242222 days. These remainders were chosen to delay the first year (after 1923) that this calendar would disagree with the Gregorian calendar as much as possible, until 2800. It was adopted by some Eastern Orthodox Churches under the names Revised Julian calendar or New calendar, but was rejected by others.\n\nThe Gregorian calendar is currently used by most of the world. There is also an international standard describing the calendar, ISO 8601, with some differences to traditional conceptions in many cultures.\n\nSince the papal reform in 1582, several proposals have been offered to make the Gregorian calendar more useful or regular. Very few reforms have gained official acceptance. The rather different decimal French Republican Calendar was one such official reform, but was abolished twelve years later by Napoleon. After World War II, the newly formed United Nations continued efforts of its predecessor, the League of Nations, to establish the proposed World Calendar but postponed the issue after a veto from the government of the United States, which was mainly based upon concerns of religious groups about the proposed days that would be outside the seven-day week cycle (\"blank days\") and thus disrupt having a sabbath every seven days. Independently the World Council of Churches still tries to find a common rule for the date of Easter, which might be eased by a new common calendar.\n\nReformers cite several problems with the Gregorian calendar:\n\nIt is hard or even impossible to solve all these issues in just one calendar.\n\nMost plans evolve around the solar year of a little more than 365 days. This number does not divide well by seven or twelve, which are the traditional numbers of days per week and months per year respectively. The nearby numbers 360, 364 and 366 are divisible in better ways. There are also lunar-centric proposals.\n\nMany calendar reforms have offered solutions to make the Gregorian calendar perennial. These reforms would make it easy to work out the day of the week of a particular date, and would make changing calendars each year unnecessary. There are, roughly speaking, two options to achieve this goal: leap week calendars and intercalary days. Leap week calendars add a leap week of seven days to the calendar every five or six years to keep the calendar roughly in step with the tropical year. They have years of either 364 days (52 weeks) or 371 days (53 weeks), thus preserving the 7-day week.\n\nProposals mainly differ in their selection of a leap rule, placing of the leap item (usually middle or end of the year), in the start day of the week and year, in the number (12 or 13) and size of months and in connected naming; some are compatible to the week date of ISO 8601.\n\nThe World Calendar, favored by the UN in the 1950s, and the International Fixed Calendar, quite popular among economists between the World Wars, are proposals that start each year on a Sunday. The 364 days within the week system form 52 weeks of 7 days. The World Calendar has every quarter beginning on the same day of the week. In the World Calendar, the 365th and 366th day are considered holidays and named Worlds Day and Leap Year Day. These \"off-calendar\" days stand outside the seven-day week and caused some religious groups to strongly oppose adoption of the World Calendar. Such concerns helped prevent the World Calendar from being adopted. Supporters of the World Calendar, however, argue that the religious groups' opposition overlooked every individual's right to celebrate these holidays as extra days of worship, or Sabbaths. This option, they reason, maintained the seven-day worship cycle for those who share that concern, while allowing benefits of a perennial calendar to be shared by all.\n\nSome calendar reform ideas, such as the Pax Calendar, Symmetry454 calendar and the Hanke-Henry Permanent Calendar, were created to solve this problem by having years of either 364 days (52 weeks) or 371 days (53 weeks), thus preserving the 7-day week. The 53-week calendar, used in government and in business for fiscal years, is a variant of this concept. Each year of this calendar can be up to 371 days long.\n\nSome calendars have quarters of regularly patterned uneven months e.g., a 35-day (five-week) month and a pair of 28-day (four-week) months, with a leap week appended to the final month when needed. The Common Civil Calendar and Time calendar has months of 30 and 31 days, but inserts a leap week in the middle of the year, when needed, whereas its successor, the Hanke-Henry Permanent Calendar, moves the extra week to the end of the year.\n\nIn the World Season Calendar, months are discarded altogether; instead, the year is divided into four seasons of 13 weeks each. An extra day (two days during leap year) is added to the calendar that is not assigned a day of the week in order to perennialize the calendar. The same calendar of 91 days is used for each season of every year.\n\nStill other proposals, like the 30x11 Calendar, abandon attempts to make the calendar perennial, instead opting for eleven 30-day months and one long month at the end of 35 (or 36) days.\n\nThe lengths of the months inherited from the old Roman calendar as reformed by Julius Caesar do not follow any apparent logic systematically. Many reform proposals seek to make the pattern more uniform. \nWhen keeping the traditional dozen of months and the close approximation of a solar year, this usually yields four equal quarters of three months each where one month is longer than the other two. The most common approaches are 30∶30∶31, 30∶31∶30 and 31∶30∶30 days per month, but 4∶4∶5, 4∶5∶4 and 5∶4∶4 weeks per months have also been proposed or used. They all result in 364 systematically distributed days and hence have to add either one extra and one leap day or a leap week. \nSome calendar designs do not use the same pattern for all quarters but, for instance, flip it in the middle of the year. This is more common with 31∶30 and 30∶31 patterns, which lead to 366 days of which one needs to be dropped in common years, since that is basically what the Julian and Gregorian calendars do except that July also has 31 days and February never has 30.\n\nIncidentally, the close correspondence to existing conventions is often considered an advantage, but even patterns that deviate more may have strong benefits. For instance, all quarterly patterns with 30 and 31 days per month result in a week distribution of 4∶5∶4 if a week is counted for the month most of its days belong to and the first day of the first month is also the first day of a week.\n\nA change in month lengths will frequently also result in months starting at a different ordinal day of the year, especially since all regular designs lengthen February. For a non-leap year, all designs with 91-day quarters realign in October with the Julian pattern and some as early as June, while all designs that are alternating odd and even months completely mismatch after January even if the last day of February remained the leap day.\n\nSome calendar reformers seek to equalize the length of each month in the year. This is often accomplished by creating a calendar that has 13 months of 4 weeks (28 days) each, making 364 days. The earliest known proposal of this type was the Georgian Calendar (1745) by Rev. Hugh Jones.\n\nThe Positivist calendar (1849), created by Auguste Comte, was based on a 364-day year which included one or two “blank” days. Each of the 13 months had 28 days and exactly four weeks, and each started on a Monday. The International Fixed Calendar is a more modern descendant of this calendar.\n\nSome proposals add one or two days to the calendar each year to account for the annual solar cycle, while others keep these days off the calendar entirely, to make the calendar perennial.\n\nAround 1930 Colligan invented the Pax Calendar, which avoids off-calendar days by adding a 7-day leap week to the 364-day common year for 71 out of 400 years. \n\nIn 1993, Lloydine and José Argüelles founded the World Thirteen Moon Calendar Change Peace Movement.\n\nDividing the years into 52 weeks creates 13 months of 28 days (4 weeks), and 4 quarters of 91 days (13 weeks). This creates months and quarters of fixed, even duration, but not quarters containing a whole number of months.\n\nInstead of a leap week or an extra day and a leap day, such a calendar design could add a 14th \"leap month\" of 4 weeks about every 22 years.\nWhile the Gregorian leap cycle of 400 years contains a whole number of 7-day weeks, this number is not divisible by 4, so this cycle would not be a good fit for a leap month calendar.\n\nThe Bahá'í calendar, established by the founders of the Bahá'í Faith, does not seek to reform the Gregorian calendar, but establishes a purely solar calendar. As of 2015, the year always starts in spring on the sunset to sunset day of the vernal equinox (calculated in advance). This calendar has 19 months of 19 days, with an extra 4 or 5 intercalary days added so that the year ends on the day before the next vernal equinox.\n\nLunisolar calendars usually have 12 or 13 months of 29 or 30 days.\n\nSome propose to improve leap rules of existing calendars, such as the Hebrew calendar. The Rectified Hebrew calendar uses a more accurate leap cycle of 4366 months per 353-year cycle, with 130 leap years per cycle, and a progressively shorter \"molad\" interval, intended to replace the 19-year leap cycle and the constant \"molad\" interval of the traditional fixed arithmetic Hebrew calendar, respectively.\n\nCalendar proposals that introduce a thirteenth month or change the Julian-Gregorian system of months often also propose new names for these months. New names have also been proposed for days out of the week cycle (e.g., 365th and leap) and weeks out of the month cycle.\n\nProposals to change the traditional month and weekday names are less frequent. The Gregorian calendar obtains its names mostly from gods of historical religions (e.g., Thursday from Nordic Thor or March from Roman Mars) or leaders of vanished empires (July and August from the first Cæsars), or ordinals that got out of synchronization (September through December, originally seventh through tenth, now ninth through twelfth).\n\nCalendar reformers, therefore, seek to correct what they see as deficiencies by focusing on more homogeneous sets of individuals, who usually share common traits.\n\nComte’s Positivist calendar, for example, proposed naming the 13 months in his calendar after figures from religion, literature, philosophy and science. Similarly, the Hermetic Lunar Week Calendar uses 12 or 13 lunar months named after 13 contributors to research on psychoactive plants and chemicals. The Simple Lunisolar Calendar names its months after the letters of the Greek alphabet.\n\nSome, such as Karl Palmen, have suggested reusing an existing 13 × 4 naming system, the one found in playing cards. Thus either months are numbered Ace, Two through Ten, Jack, Queen and King with four weeks each, named after the four suits (♠♣♥♦); or the roles are reversed if the calendar has four quarters with thirteen weeks each. Leap days or weeks are assigned the Joker. This system has internationalisation problems, though, because even where the 52-card deck is known, the order of suits may vary.\n\nThe contemporary ISO basic Latin alphabet has 26 letters, which could be used, together with a further binary indicator, as keys for 52 weeks.\n\nThere have been many specific calendar proposals to replace the Gregorian calendar:\n\nThe following count one or more days outside the standard seven-day week:\n\nThe following are leap week calendars:\n\nThe following track the moon as well as the sun:\n\nThere have also been proposals to revise the way years are numbered:\n\nReform of the Islamic calendar:\n\nSince the beginning of the 21st century, there is a trend within the Muslim communities of North America and Europe to substitute a lunar calendar based on calculations for the traditional Islamic method of monthly observation of the new moon to declare the beginning of the new month in each country separately. The details are in the following study:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "252857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=252857", "title": "Classified information", "text": "Classified information\n\nClassified information is material that a government body deems to be sensitive information that must be protected. Access is restricted by law or regulation to particular groups of people with the necessary security clearance and need to know, and \"intentionally\" mishandling of the material can incur criminal penalties. A formal security clearance is required to view or handle classified documents or to access classified data. The clearance process requires a satisfactory background investigation. Documents and other information \"must be properly\" marked \"by the author\" with one of several (hierarchical) levels of sensitivity—e.g. restricted, confidential, secret and top secret. The choice of level is based on an impact assessment; governments have their own criteria, which include how to determine the classification of an information asset, and rules on how to protect information classified at each level. This often includes security clearances for personnel handling the information. Although \"classified information\" refers to the formal categorization and marking of material by level of sensitivity, it has also developed a sense synonymous with \"censored\" in US English. A distinction is often made between formal security classification and privacy markings such as \"commercial in confidence\". Classifications can be used with additional keywords that give more detailed instructions on how data should be used or protected.\n\nSome corporations and non-government organizations also assign levels of protection to their private information, either from a desire to protect trade secrets, or because of laws and regulations governing various matters such as personal privacy, sealed legal proceedings and the timing of financial information releases.\n\nWith the passage of time much classified information \"can\" become \"a bit less sensitive, or\" becomes \"much\" less sensitive, and may be declassified and made public. Since the late twentieth century there has been freedom of information legislation in some countries, whereby the public is deemed to have the right to all information that is not considered to be damaging if released. Sometimes documents are released with information still considered confidential obscured (redacted), as in the example at right.\n\nThe purpose of classification is to protect information. Higher classifications protect information that might endanger national security. Classification formalises what constitutes a \"state secret\" and accords different levels of protection based on the expected damage the information might cause in the wrong hands.\n\nHowever, classified information is frequently \"leaked\" to reporters by officials for political purposes. Several U.S. presidents have leaked sensitive information to get their point across to the public.\n\nAlthough the classification systems vary from country to country, most have levels corresponding to the following British definitions (from the highest level to lowest).\n\n\"Top Secret\" is the highest level of classified information. Information is further compartmented so that specific access using a code word after \"top secret\" is a legal way to hide collective and important information. Such material would cause \"exceptionally grave damage\" to national security if made publicly available. Prior to 1942, the United Kingdom and other members of the British Empire used \"Most Secret\", but this was later changed to match the United States' category name of \"Top Secret\" in order to simplify Allied interoperability.\n\n\"The Washington Post\" reports in an investigation entitled \"Top Secret America\", that per 2010 \"An estimated 854,000 people ... hold top-secret security clearances\" in the United States.\n\n\"Secret\" material would cause \"serious damage\" to national security if it were publicly available.\n\nIn the United States, operational \"Secret\" information can be marked with an additional \"LIMDIS\", to limit distribution.\n\n\"Confidential\" material would cause damage or be prejudicial to national security if publicly available.\n\n\"Restricted\" material would cause \"undesirable effects\" if publicly available. Some countries do not have such a classification; in public sectors, such as commercial industries. Such a level is also known as \"\"Private\" Information\".\n\n\"Official\" (Equivalent to US DOD classification FOUO – For Official Use Only) material forms the generality of government business, public service delivery and commercial activity. This includes a diverse range of information, of varying sensitivities, and with differing consequences resulting from compromise or loss. OFFICIAL information must be secured against a threat model that is broadly similar to that faced by a large private company.\n\nThe OFFICIAL classification replaced the Confidential and Restricted classifications in April 2014 in the UK.\n\n\"Unclassified\" is technically not a classification level, but this is a feature of some classification schemes, used for government documents that do not merit a particular classification or which have been declassified. This is because the information is low-impact, and therefore does not require any special protection, such as vetting of personnel.\n\nA plethora of pseudo-classifications exist under this category.\n\n\"Clearance\" is a general classification, that comprises a variety of rules controlling the level of permission required to view some classified information, and how it must be stored, transmitted, and destroyed. Additionally, access is restricted on a \"need to know\" basis. Simply possessing a clearance does not automatically authorize the individual to view all material classified at that level or below that level. The individual must present a legitimate \"need to know\" in addition to the proper level of clearance.\n\nIn addition to the general risk-based classification levels, additional compartmented constraints on access exist, such as (in the U.S.) Special Intelligence (SI), which protects intelligence sources and methods, No Foreign dissemination (NOFORN), which restricts dissemination to U.S. nationals, and Originator Controlled dissemination (ORCON), which ensures that the originator can track possessors of the information. Information in these compartments is usually marked with specific keywords in addition to the classification level.\n\nGovernment information about nuclear weapons often has an additional marking to show it contains such information (CNWDI).\n\nWhen a government agency or group shares information between an agency or group of other country’s government they will generally employ a special classification scheme that both parties have previously agreed to honour.\n\nFor example, the marking ATOMAL, is applied to U.S. RESTRICTED DATA or FORMERLY RESTRICTED DATA and United Kingdom ATOMIC information that has been released to NATO. ATOMAL information is marked COSMIC TOP SECRET ATOMAL (CTSA), NATO SECRET ATOMAL (NSAT), or NATO CONFIDENTIAL ATOMAL (NCA).\n\nFor example, sensitive information shared amongst NATO allies has four levels of security classification; from most to least classified:\n\nA special case exists with regard to NATO UNCLASSIFIED (NU) information. Documents with this marking are NATO property (copyright) and must not be made public without NATO permission.\n\n\nMost countries employ some sort of classification system for certain government information. For example, in Canada, information that the U.S. would classify SBU (Sensitive but Unclassified) is called \"protected\" and further subcategorised into levels A, B, and C.\n\nOn 19 July 2011, the National Security (NS) classification marking scheme and the Non-National Security (NNS) classification marking scheme in Australia was unified into one structure.\n\nThe Australian Government Security Classification system now comprises TOP SECRET, SECRET, CONFIDENTIAL and PROTECTED. A new dissemination limiting markers (DLMs) scheme was also introduced for information where disclosure may be limited or prohibited by legislation, or where it may otherwise require special handling. The DLM marking scheme comprises For Official Use Only (FOUO), Sensitive, Sensitive: Personal, Sensitive: Legal, and Sensitive: Cabinet.\n\nDocuments marked Sensitive Cabinet, relating to discussions in Federal Cabinet, are treated as PROTECTED at minimum due to its higher sensitivity.\n\nThere are three levels of document classification under Brazilian Information Access Law: \"ultrassecreto\" (top secret), \"secreto\" (secret) and \"reservado\" (restricted).\n\nA top secret (\"ultrassecreto\") government-issued document may be classified for a period of 25 years, which may be extended up to another 25 years. Thus, no document remains classified for more than 50 years. This is mandated by the 2011 Information Access Law (\"Lei de Acesso à Informação\"), a change from the previous rule, under which documents could have their classification time length renewed indefinitely, effectively shuttering state secrets from the public. The 2011 law applies retroactively to existing documents.\n\nThe Government of Canada employs two main types of sensitive information designation: \"Classified\" and \"Protected\". The access and protection of both types of information is governed by the \"Security of Information Act\", effective December 24, 2001, replacing the \"Official Secrets Act 1981\". To access the information, a person must have the appropriate security clearance and the need to know.\n\nIn addition, the caveat \"Canadian Eyes Only\" is used to restrict access to Classified or Protected information only to Canadian citizens with the appropriate security clearance and need to know.\n\nSOI is not a classification of data \"per se\". It is defined under the \"Security of Information Act\", and unauthorised release of such information constitutes a higher breach of trust, with penalty of life imprisonment.\n\nSOIs include:\n\nClassified information can be designated \"Top Secret\", \"Secret\" or \"Confidential\". These classifications are only used on matters of national interest.\n\nProtected information is not classified. It pertains to any sensitive information that does not relate to national security and cannot be disclosed under the access and privacy legislation because of the potential injury to particular public or private interests.\n\nFederal Cabinet (Queen's Privy Council for Canada) papers are either protected (e.g., overhead slides prepared to make presentations to Cabinet) or classified (e.g., draft legislation, certain memos).\n\nThe Criminal Law of the People's Republic of China (which is not operative in the Special Administrative Regions of Hong Kong and Macau) makes it a crime to release a state secret. Regulation and enforcement is carried out by the National Administration for the Protection of State Secrets.\n\nUnder the 1989 \"Law on Guarding State Secrets,\" state secrets are defined as those that concern:\n\n\nSecrets can be classified into three categories:\n\nIn France, classified information is defined by article 413-9 of the Penal Code. The three levels of military classification are\n\nLess sensitive information is \"protected\". The levels are\n\nA further caveat, \"\"spécial France\" (reserved France) restricts the document to French citizens (in its entirety or by extracts). This is not a classification level.\n\nDeclassification of documents can be done by the \"Commission consultative du secret de la défense nationale\" (CCSDN), an independent authority. Transfer of classified information is done with double envelopes, the outer layer being plastified and numbered, and the inner in strong paper. Reception of the document involves examination of the physical integrity of the container and registration of the document. In foreign countries, the document must be transferred through specialised military mail or diplomatic bag. Transport is done by an authorised convoyer or habilitated person for mail under 20 kg. The letter must bear a seal mentioning \"PAR VALISE ACCOMPAGNEE-SACOCHE\"\". Once a year, ministers have an inventory of classified information and supports by competent authorities.\n\nOnce their usage period is expired, documents are transferred to archives, where they are either destroyed (by incineration, crushing, or overvoltage), or stored.\n\nIn case of unauthorized release of classified information, competent authorities are the Ministry of Interior, the \"Haut fonctionnaire de défense et de sécurité\" (\"high civil servant for defence and security\") of the relevant ministry, and the General secretary for National Defence. Violation of such secrets is an offence punishable with 7 years of imprisonment and a 100,000 Euro fine; if the offence is committed by imprudence or negligence, the penalties are 3 years of imprisonment and a 45,000 Euro fine.\n\nThe Security Bureau is responsible for developing policies in regards to the protection and handling of confidential government information. In general, the system used in Hong Kong is very similar to the UK system, developed from the Colonial Hong Kong era.\n\nFour classifications exists in Hong Kong, from highest to lowest in sensitivity:\n\nRestricted documents are not classified \"per se\", but only those who have a need to know will have access to such information, in accordance with the \"Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance\".\n\nNew Zealand uses the Restricted classification, which is lower than Confidential.\nPeople may be given access to Restricted information on the strength of an authorisation by their Head of Department, without being subjected to the background vetting associated with Confidential, Secret and Top Secret clearances. New Zealand's security classifications and the national-harm requirements associated with their use are roughly similar to those of the United States.\n\nIn addition to national security classifications there are two additional security classifications, In Confidence and Sensitive, which are used to protect information of a policy and privacy nature. There are also a number of information markings used within ministries and departments of the government, to indicate, for example, that information should not be released outside the originating ministry.\n\nBecause of strict privacy requirements around personal information, personnel files are controlled in all parts of the public and private sectors. Information relating to the security vetting of an individual is usually classified at the In Confidence level.\n\nIn Romania, classified information is referred to as \"state secrets\" (\"secrete de stat\") and is defined by the Penal Code as \"documents and data that manifestly appear to have this status or have been declared or qualified as such by decision of Government\". There are three levels of classification—Secret, Top Secret, and Top Secret of Particular Importance. The levels are set by the Romanian Intelligence Service and must be aligned with NATO regulations—in case of conflicting regulations, the latter are applied with priority. Dissemination of classified information to foreign agents or powers is punishable by up to life imprisonment, if such dissemination threatens Romania's national security.\n\nIn the Russian Federation, a state secret (Государственная тайна) is information protected by the state on its military, foreign policy, economic, intelligence, counterintelligence, operational and investigative and other activities, dissemination of which could harm state security.\n\nThe Swedish classification has been updated due to increased NATO/PfP cooperation. All classified defence documents will now have both a Swedish classification (\"Kvalificerat hemlig\" or \"Hemlig\"), and an English classification (Top Secret, Secret, Confidential, or Restricted). The term \"skyddad identitet\", \"protected identity\", is used in the case of protection of a threatened person, basically implying \"secret identity\", accessible only to certain members of the police force and explicitly authorised officials.\n\nUntil 2013, the United Kingdom used five levels of classification—from lowest to highest, they were: PROTECT, RESTRICTED, CONFIDENTIAL, SECRET and TOP SECRET (formerly MOST SECRET). The Cabinet Office provides guidance on how to protect information, including the security clearances required for personnel. Staff may be required to sign to confirm their understanding and acceptance of the Official Secrets Acts 1911 to 1989, although the Act applies regardless of signature. PROTECT is not in itself a security protective marking level (such as RESTRICTED or greater), but is used to indicate information which should not be disclosed because, for instance, the document contains tax, national insurance, or other personal information.\n\nGovernment documents without a classification may be marked as UNCLASSIFIED or NOT PROTECTIVELY MARKED.\n\nThis system was replaced by the Government Security Classifications Policy, which has a simpler model: TOP SECRET, SECRET, and OFFICIAL from April 2014. OFFICIAL SENSITIVE is a security marking which may be followed by one of three authorised descriptors: COMMERCIAL, LOCSEN (location sensitive) or PERSONAL. SECRET and TOP SECRET may include a caveat such as UK EYES ONLY.\n\nThe U.S. classification system is currently established under Executive Order 13526 and has three levels of classification—Confidential, Secret, and Top Secret. The U.S. had a Restricted level during World War II but no longer does. U.S. regulations state that information received from other countries at the Restricted level should be handled as Confidential. A variety of markings are used for material that is not classified, but whose distribution is limited administratively or by other laws, e.g., For Official Use Only (FOUO), or Sensitive but Unclassified (SBU). The Atomic Energy Act of 1954 provides for the protection of information related to the design of nuclear weapons. The term \"Restricted Data\" is used to denote certain nuclear technology. Information about the storage, use or handling of nuclear material or weapons is marked \"Formerly Restricted Data\". These designations are used in addition to level markings (Confidential, Secret and Top Secret). Information protected by the Atomic Energy Act is protected by law and information classified under the Executive Order is protected by Executive privilege.\n\nThe U.S. government insists it is \"not appropriate\" for a court to question whether any document is legally classified. In the 1973 trial of Daniel Ellsberg for releasing the Pentagon Papers, the judge did not allow any testimony from Ellsberg, claiming it was \"irrelevant\", because the assigned classification could not be challenged. The charges against Ellsberg were ultimately dismissed after it was revealed that the government had broken the law in secretly breaking into the office of Ellsberg's psychiatrist and in tapping his telephone without a warrant. Ellsberg insists that the legal situation in the U.S. today is worse than it was in 1973, and Edward Snowden could not get a fair trial. The State Secrets Protection Act of 2008 might have given judges the authority to review such questions in camera, but the bill was not passed.\n\n\"Original source: NISPOM Appendix B\"\n¹ In addition, Finland uses label \"Salassa pidettävä\", \"to be kept secret\" for information that is not classified but must not be revealed on some other basis than national security. (E.g. privacy, trade secrets etc.)\n\nPrivate corporations often require written confidentiality agreements and conduct background checks on candidates for sensitive positions. In the U.S. the Employee Polygraph Protection Act prohibits private employers from requiring lie detector tests, but there are a few exceptions. Policies dictating methods for marking and safeguarding company-sensitive information (e.g. \"IBM Confidential\") are common and some companies have more than one level. Such information is protected under trade secret laws. New product development teams are often sequestered and forbidden to share information about their efforts with un-cleared fellow employees, the original Apple Macintosh project being a famous example. Other activities, such as mergers and financial report preparation generally involve similar restrictions. However, corporate security generally lacks the elaborate hierarchical clearance and sensitivity structures and the harsh criminal sanctions that give government classification systems their particular tone.\n\nThe Traffic Light Protocol was developed by the Group of Eight countries to enable the sharing of sensitive information between government agencies and corporations. This protocol has now been accepted as a model for trusted information exchange by over 30 other countries. The protocol provides for four \"information sharing levels\" for the handling of sensitive information.\n\n"}
{"id": "5828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5828", "title": "Cryptozoology", "text": "Cryptozoology\n\nCryptozoology is a pseudoscience and subculture that aims to prove the existence of entities from the folklore record, such as Bigfoot, the chupacabra, or Mokele-mbembe. Cryptozoologists refer to these entities as \"cryptids\", a term coined by the subculture. Because it does not follow the scientific method, cryptozoology is considered a pseudoscience by the academic world: it is neither a branch of zoology nor folkloristics.\n\nOriginally founded in the 1950s by zoologists Bernard Heuvelmans and Ivan T. Sanderson, scholars have noted that the pseudoscience rejected mainstream approaches from an early date, and that adherents often express hostility to mainstream science. Scholars have studied cryptozoologists and their influence (including the pseudoscience's association with young Earth creationism), and have noted parallels in cryptozoology and other pseudosciences such as ghost hunting and ufology.\n\nAs a field, cryptozoology originates from the works of colleagues Bernard Heuvelmans, a Belgian zoologist, and Ivan T. Sanderson, a Scottish zoologist. Notably, Heuvelmans published \"On the Track of Unknown Animals\" (French \"Sur la Piste des Bêtes Ignorées\") in 1955, a landmark work among cryptozoologists that was followed by numerous other like works. Similarly, Sanderson published a series of books that assisted in developing hallmarks of cryptozoology, including \"Abominable Snowmen: Legend Come to Life\" (1961).\n\nThe term \"cryptozoology\" dates from cryptozoologist circles from 1959 or before – Heuvelmans attributes the coinage of the term \"cryptozoology\" ('the study of hidden animals') to Sanderson. Patterned after \"cryptozoology\", the term \"cryptid\" was coined in 1983 by cryptozoologist J. E. Wall in the Summer issue of the International Society of Cryptozoology newsletter. According to Wall \"[It has been] suggested that new terms be coined to replace sensational and often misleading terms like 'monster'. My suggestion is 'cryptid', meaning a living thing having the quality of being hidden or unknown.\" The \"Oxford English Dictionary\" defines the noun \"cryptid\" as \"an animal whose existence or survival to the present day is disputed or unsubstantiated; any animal of interest to a cryptozoologist\". While used by most cryptozoologists, the term \"cryptid\" is not used by academic zoologists.\n\nWhile biologists regularly identify new species, cryptozoologists often focus on creatures from the folklore record. Most famously, these include the Loch Ness Monster, Bigfoot, the chupacabra, as well as other \"imposing beasts that could be labeled as monsters\". In their hunt for these entities, cryptozoologists may employ devices such as motion-sensitive cameras, night-vision equipment, and audio-recording equipment. While there have been attempts to codify cryptozoological approaches, unlike biologists, zoologists, botanists, and other academic disciplines, however, \"there are no accepted, uniform, or successful methods for pursuing cryptids\". Some scholars have identified precursors to modern cryptozoology in certain medieval approaches to the folklore record, and the psychology behind the cryptozoology approach has been the subject of academic study.\n\nFew cryptozoologists have a formal science education, and fewer still have a science background directly relevant to cryptozoology. Adherents often misrepresent the academic backgrounds of cryptozoologists. According to writer Daniel Loxton and paleontologist Donald Prothero, \"Cryptozoologists have often promoted 'Professor Roy Mackal, PhD.' as one of their leading figures and one of the few with a legitimate doctorate in biology. What is rarely mentioned, however, is that he had no training that would qualify him to undertake competent research on exotic animals. This raises the specter of 'credential mongering', by which an individual or organization feints a person's graduate degree as proof of expertise, even though his or her training is not specifically relevant to the field under consideration.\" Besides Heuvalmans, Sanderson, and Mackal, notable cryptozoologists with academic backgrounds include Grover Krantz, Karl Shuker, and Richard Greenwell.\n\nA subset of cryptozoology promotes the pseudoscience of Young Earth creationism, rejecting conventional science in favor of a Biblical interpretation and promoting concepts such as \"living dinosaurs\". Science writer Sharon A. Hill observes that the Young Earth creationist segment of cryptozoology is \"well-funded and able to conduct expeditions with a goal of finding a living dinosaur that they think would invalidate evolution.\" Anthropologist Jeb J. Card says that \"Creationists have embraced cryptozoology and some cryptozoological expeditions are funded by and conducted by creationists hoping to disprove evolution.\" In a 2013 interview, paleontologist Donald Prothero notes an uptick in creationist cryptozoologists. He observes that \"[p]eople who actively search for Loch Ness monsters or Mokele Mbembe do it entirely as creationist ministers. They think that if they found a dinosaur in the Congo it would overturn all of evolution. It wouldn't. It would just be a late-occurring dinosaur, but that's their mistaken notion of evolution.\"\n\nThe 2003 discovery of the fossil remains of \"Homo floresiensis\" was cited by paleontologist Henry Gee, a senior editor at the journal \"Nature\", as possible evidence that \"in geological terms, makes it more likely that stories of other mythical, human-like creatures such as yetis are founded on grains of truth.\" \"Cryptozoology,\" Gee says, \"can come in from the cold.\"\n\nHowever, cryptozoology is widely criticised for an array of reasons and is rejected by the academic world. There is a broad consensus from academics that cryptozoology is a pseudoscience. The field is regularly criticized for reliance on anecdotal information and because in the course of investigating animals that most scientists believe are unlikely to have existed, cryptozoologists do not follow the scientific method. Hill notes that \"there is no academic course of study in cryptozoology or no university degree program that will bestow the title 'cryptozoologist'.\"\n\nAnthropologist Jeb J. Card summarizes cryptozoology in a survey of pseudoscience and pseudoarchaeology:\n\nCard notes that \"cryptozoologists often show their disdain and even hatred for professional scientists, including those who enthusiastically participated in cryptozoology\", which he traces back to Heuvelmans's early \"rage against critics of cryptozoology\". He finds parallels with cryptozoology and other pseudosciences, such as ghost hunting and ufology, and compares the approach of cryptozoologists to colonial big-game hunters, and to aspects of European imperialism. According to Card, \"Most cryptids are framed as the subject of indigenous legends typically collected in the hayday of comparative folklore, though such legends may be heavily modified or worse. Cryptozoology's complicated mix of sympathy, interest, and appropriation of indigenous culture (or non-indigenous construction of it) is also found in New Age circles and dubious \"Indian burial grounds\" and other legends ... invoked in hauntings such as the \"Amityville\" hoax ...\".\n\nIn a 2011 foreword for \"The American Biology Teacher\", then National Association of Biology Teachers president Dan Ward uses cryptozoology as an example of \"technological pseudoscience\" that may confuse students about the scientific method. Ward says that \"Cryptozoology … is not valid science or even science at all. It is monster hunting.\" Historian of science Brian Regal includes an entry for cryptozoology in his \"Pseudoscience: A Critical Encyclopedia\" (2009). Regal says that \"as an intellectual endeavor, cryptozoology has been studied as much as cryptozoologists have sought hidden animals\".\n\nIn a 1992 issue of \"Folklore\", folklorist Véronique Campion-Vincent says:\n\nCampion-Vincent says that \"four currents can be distinguished in the study of mysterious animal appearances\": \"Forteans\" (\"compiler[s] of anomalies\" such as via publications like the \"Fortean Times\"), \"occultists\" (which she describes as related to \"Forteans\"), \"folklorists\", and \"cryptozoologists\". Regarding cryptozoologists, Campion-Vincent says that \"this movement seems to deserve the appellation of parascience, like parapsychology: the same corpus is reviewed; many scientists participate, but for those who have an official status of university professor or researcher, the participation is a private hobby\".\n\nIn her \"Encyclopedia of American Folklore\", academic Linda Watts says that \"folklore concerning unreal animals or beings, sometimes called monsters, is a popular field of inquiry\" and describes cryptozoology as an example of \"American narrative traditions\" that \"feature many monsters\".\n\nIn his analysis of cryptozoology, folklorist Peter Dendle says that \"cryptozoology devotees consciously position themselves in defiance of mainstream science\" and that:\n\nIn a paper published in 2013, Dendle refers to cryptozoologists as \"contemporary monster hunters\" that \"keep alive a sense of wonder in a world that has been very thoroughly charted, mapped, and tracked, and that is largely available for close scrutiny on Google Earth and satellite imaging\" and that \"on the whole the devotion of substantial resources for this pursuit betrays a lack of awareness of the basis for scholarly consensus (largely ignoring, for instance, evidence of evolutionary biology and the fossil record).\"\n\nAccording to historian Mike Dash, few scientists doubt there are thousands of unknown animals, particularly invertebrates, awaiting discovery; however, cryptozoologists are largely uninterested in researching and cataloging newly discovered species of ants or beetles, instead focusing their efforts towards \"more elusive\" creatures that have often defied decades of work aimed at confirming their existence.\n\nPaleontologist George Gaylord Simpson (1984) lists cryptozoology among examples of human gullibility, along with creationism:\n\nPaleontologist Donald Prothero (2007) cites cryptozoology as an example of pseudoscience, and categorizes it along with Holocaust denial and UFO abductions claims as aspects of American culture that are \"clearly baloney\".\n\nIn \"Scientifical Americans: The Culture of Amateur Paranormal Researchers\" (2017), Hill surveys the field and discusses aspects of the subculture, noting internal attempts at creating more scientific approaches and the involvement of Young Earth creationists and a prevalence of hoaxes. She concludes that many cryptozoologists are \"passionate and sincere in their belief that mystery animals exist. As such, they give deference to every report of a sighting, often without criticial questioning. As with the ghost seekers, cryptozoologists are convinced that they will be the ones to solve the mystery and make history. With the lure of mystery and money undermining diligent and ethical research, the field of cryptozoology has serious credibility problems.\"\n\nThere have been several organizations, of varying types, dedicated or related to cryptozoology. These include:\n\n"}
{"id": "41899053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41899053", "title": "Cumulative extremism", "text": "Cumulative extremism\n\nCumulative extremism is a form of political extremism that occurs when one form of political extremism mobilises against another form of political extremism, which was coined by British scholar Roger Eatwell. Eatwell defines cumulative extremism as: 'the way in which one form of extremism can feed off and magnify other forms'. Dr Mohammed Ilyas defines cumulative extremism as 'a process through which different forms of ‘extremism’ interact and can potentially produce a spiral of violence'. The academic Matthew Goodwin gives the example of far-right political organisations mobilising in response to the perceived threat of Islamic extremism.\n"}
{"id": "382165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=382165", "title": "Electoral fraud", "text": "Electoral fraud\n\nElectoral fraud, sometimes referred to as election manipulation or vote rigging, is illegal interference with the process of an election, either by increasing the vote share of the favored candidate, depressing the vote share of the rival candidates, or both. What exactly constitutes electoral fraud varies from country to country.\n\nMany kinds of election fraud are outlawed in electoral legislation, but others are in violation of general laws, such as those banning assault, harassment or libel. Although technically the term 'electoral fraud' covers only those acts which are illegal, the term is sometimes used to describe acts which are legal, but considered morally unacceptable, outside the spirit of an election or in violation of the principles of democracy. Show elections, containing only one candidate, are sometimes classified as electoral fraud, although they may comply with the law and are presented more as referendums.\n\nIn national elections, successful electoral fraud can have the effect of a coup d'état or corruption of democracy. In a narrow election, a small amount of fraud may be enough to change the result. Even if the outcome is not affected, the revelation of fraud can have a damaging effect, if not punished, as it can reduce voters' confidence in democracy.\n\nA list of threats to voting systems, or electoral fraud methods considered as sabotage are kept by the National Institute of Standards and Technology.\n\nElectoral fraud can occur in advance of voting if the composition of the electorate is altered. The legality of this type of manipulation varies across jurisdictions. Deliberate manipulation of election outcomes is widely considered a violation of the principles of democracy.\n\nIn many cases, it is possible for authorities to artificially control the composition of an electorate in order to produce a foregone result. One way of doing this is to move a large number of voters into the electorate prior to an election, for example by temporarily assigning them land or lodging them in flophouses. Many countries prevent this with rules stipulating that a voter must have lived in an electoral district for a minimum period (for example, six months) in order to be eligible to vote there. However, such laws can also be used for demographic manipulation as they tend to disenfranchise those with no fixed address, such as the homeless, travelers, Roma, students (studying full-time away from home), and some casual workers.\n\nAnother strategy is to permanently move people into an electoral district, usually through public housing. If people eligible for public housing are likely to vote for a particular party, then they can either be concentrated into one area, thus making their votes count for less, or moved into marginal electorates, where they may tip the balance towards their preferred party. One notable example of this occurred in the City of Westminster in England under Shirley Porter.\n\nImmigration law may also be used to manipulate electoral demography. For instance, Malaysia gave citizenship to immigrants from the neighboring Philippines and Indonesia, together with suffrage, in order for a political party to \"dominate\" the state of Sabah; this controversial process was known as Project IC.\n\nA method of manipulating primary contests and other elections of party leaders are related to this. People who support one party may temporarily join another party (or vote in a crossover way, when permitted) in order to elect a weak candidate for that party's leadership. The goal ultimately is to defeat the weak candidate in the general election by the leader of the party that the voter truly supports. There were claims that this method was being utilised in the UK Labour Party leadership election in 2015, where Conservative-leaning Toby Young encouraged Conservatives to join Labour and vote for Jeremy Corbyn in order to \"consign Labour to electoral oblivion\". Shortly after, #ToriesForCorbyn trended on Twitter.\n\nThe composition of an electorate may also be altered by disenfranchising some classes of people, rendering them unable to vote. In some cases, states have passed provisions that raised general barriers to voter registration, such as poll taxes, literacy and comprehension tests, and record-keeping requirements, which in practice were applied against minority populations to discriminatory effect. From the turn of the century into the late 1960s, most African Americans in the southern states of the former Confederacy were disenfranchised by such measures. Corrupt election officials may misuse voting regulations such as a literacy test or requirement for proof of identity or address in such a way as to make it difficult or impossible for their targets to cast a vote. If such practices discriminate against a religious or ethnic group, they may so distort the political process that the political order becomes grossly unrepresentative, as in the post-Reconstruction or Jim Crow era until the Voting Rights Act of 1965.\n\nGroups may also be disenfranchised by rules which make it impractical or impossible for them to cast a vote. For example, requiring people to vote within their electorate may disenfranchise serving military personnel, prison inmates, students, hospital patients or anyone else who cannot return to their homes. Polling can be set for inconvenient days, such as midweek or on holy days of religious groups: for example on the Sabbath or other holy days of a religious group whose teachings determine that voting is a prohibited on such a day. Communities may also be effectively disenfranchised if polling places are situated in areas perceived by voters as unsafe, or are not provided within reasonable proximity (rural communities are especially vulnerable to this).\n\nIn some cases, voters may be invalidly disenfranchised, which is true electoral fraud. For example, a legitimate voter may be “accidentally” removed from the electoral roll, making it difficult or impossible for the person to vote.\n\nIn the Canadian federal election of 1917, during the Great War, the Union government passed the Military Voters Act and the Wartime Elections Act. The Military Voters Act permitted any active military personnel to vote by party only and allowed that party to decide in which electoral district to place that vote. It also enfranchised those women who were directly related or married to an active soldier. These groups were believed to be disproportionately in favor of the Union government, as that party was campaigning in favor of conscription. The Wartime Elections Act, conversely, disenfranchised particular ethnic groups assumed to be disproportionately in favour of the opposition Liberal Party.\n\nStanford University professor Beatriz Magaloni described a model governing the behaviour of autocratic regimes. She proposed that ruling parties can maintain political control under a democratic system without actively manipulating votes or coercing the electorate. Under the right conditions, the democratic system is manouvered into an equilibrium in which divided opposition parties act as unwitting accomplices to single-party rule. This permits the ruling regime to abstain from illegal electoral fraud.\n\nPreferential voting systems such as score voting, instant-runoff voting, and single transferable vote are designed to prevent systemic electoral manipulation and political duopoly.\n\nVoter intimidation involves putting undue pressure on a voter or group of voters so that they will vote a particular way, or not at all. Absentee and other remote voting can be more open to some forms of intimidation as the voter does not have the protection and privacy of the polling location. Intimidation can take a range of forms including verbal, physical, or coercion. This was so common that in 1887, a Kansas Supreme Court in \"New Perspectives on Election Fraud in The Gilded Age\" said “[…] physical retaliation constituted only a slight disturbance and would not vitiate an election.”\n\n\nVote buying occurs when a political party or candidate seeks to buy the vote of a voter in an upcoming election. Vote buying can take various forms such as a monetary exchange, as well as an exchange for necessary goods or services. This practice is often used to incentivise or persuade voters to turn out to elections and vote in a particular way. Despite the fact that this practice is illegal in many countries such as the United States, Argentina, Mexico, Kenya and Nigeria, its prevalence remains worldwide.\n\nIn some parts of the United States in the mid- and late 19th century, members of competing parties would vie, sometimes openly and other times with much greater secrecy, to buy and sell votes. Voters would be compensated with cash or the covering of one’s house/tax payment. To keep the practice of vote buying secret, parties would open fully staffed vote-buying shops. Parties would also hire runners, who would go out into the public and find floating voters and bargain with them to vote for their side.\n\nIn England, documentation and stories of vote buying and vote selling are also well known. The most famous episodes of vote buying came in 18th century England when two or more rich aristocrats spent whatever money it took to win. The notorious \"Spendthrift election\" came in Northamptonshire in 1768, when three earls spent over ₤100,000 each to win a seat.\nVoters may be given money or other rewards for voting in a particular way, or not voting. In some jurisdictions, the offer or giving of other rewards is referred to as \"electoral treating\". \nElectoral treating remains legal in some jurisdictions, such as in the Seneca Nation of Indians.\n\nVote buying and the overall practice of clientelism is widespread in Argentina. One of the main perpetrators of these illegal activities were the Peronist party. The relationship between voters and Peronist candidates are such that voters are offered particular goods, services, favours or monetary compensation in exchange for their political support for the party. These rewards could include a job, medicine, a roof, clothing, foods, and other goods or services. The case of Argentina in particular in that it relies heavily on face-to-face and day-to-day interactions between \"brokers\" who act as middlemen and voters. Since many of the communities in Argentina are ridden with poverty and are in need of these particular resources, it is these communities that have proven to be the demographic that were targeted for voted buying. Additionally, vote buying in this region focuses on citizens who are not strongly in favour or opposed to the political machine, and whose political loyalty does not necessarily lie with one party or another. In this way, vote buying acts as a mechanism to sway the decisions of weakly opposed voters. In a study done by Susan C. Stokes, she finds that the brokers in these communities are known to all the citizens and have access to the necessary resources from the municipality. They maintain relationships with the voters and grant them rewards and favours continuously in order to keep the party they work for in the office. This is one main explanation for why many lower-income voters are seen voting for populist leaders, as well as authoritarian ones. Many citizens view these brokers as positive pillars in their lives and have the utmost respect for the help they distribute. However, others view them as hands of corruption. Stokes further explains that the capacity of these brokers is constrained due to the fact that they can only maintain this type of transactional relationship with a limited number of voters. Furthermore, the brokers have the additional responsibility of maintaining trusting and solid relationships with their resource suppliers. Without these strong ties, they will have no means through which to carry out vote-buying practices.\n\nSimilarly to Argentina, it has been found that vote-buying in Mexico is most likely in rural and poor regions of the country. There are many instances of vote buying that have occurred in the history of Mexican elections, however, there are two main instances of fund in the literature that occurred in the last two decades. The first was the 2006 Mexican election, where it was found that 8.8% of the population that was not a beneficiary of a specific social program was offered compensation for their vote. Similarly, a corruption inquiry arrested Andrés Granier Melo for embezzlement of funds in the state of Tabasco during his governorship: among other things, some of these funds were used for vote-buying (although Melo has denied all accusations).\n\nOn a self-reported survey that was conducted, 1 in 5 Nigerian has experienced an offer for their vote. The rewards offered by Nigerian politicians include money, commodities such as food and clothing, or a job. Although the practice of vote buying is widespread, 58% of Nigerians surveyed at the time of the 2007 election viewed vote buying as immoral. Despite this, when asked if they thought it was wrong to accept rewards or monetary compensation for your vote, 78% said no. One factor that needs to be iterated when it comes to studies that are based on surveys is that since vote buying is illegal in most countries, a researcher’s ability to collect accurate data is hindered. This is because many citizens may not feel comfortable revealing their experience or involvement with corrupt activities, or fear that they will suffer repercussions from their governments for coming forward with such information.\n\nSince the 1990s, Kenya has had regular multiparty elections in which vote buying has played a central role. In his article, scholar Eric Kramon states that: \"According to the data gathered by the Coalition for Accountable Political Finance in Kenya, cash handouts to voters represents around 40% of the average parliamentary candidates’ campaign budget, making up the largest budget item.\" These handouts are made in various ways including stops on the campaign trail, and at-large campaign rallies. \"In the 2002 election, 40% of surveyed adult Kenyans reported having accepted a bribe in exchange for their vote, and 22% for the 2007 elections.”\n\nIt is noted by Kramen that access to information is a huge factor in determining the success of vote buying in Kenya. If the voters have little access to political information or lack political knowledge then they are more likely to be swayed by clientelistic reasoning. Moreover, if the voter does have access to information about an incumbent, then the price to sway their vote is more likely to go up. Additionally, Kramon notes that citizens of Kenya tend to value candidates who provide rewards because their ability to do so points to how great their abilities will be once they are in office.\n\nOne of the main concerns with vote buying lies in the question of which population or group of voters are most likely to be susceptible to accepting compensation in exchange for their vote. Scholars such as Stokes argue that it is the weakly opposed voters are the best ones to target for vote buying. This means that in a situation in which there are two parties running for office, for example, the voters who are not inclined to vote one way or the other are the best to target. \nOther scholars argue that it is people of lower income status who are the best group to target, as they are the most likely to be receptive to monetary or other forms of compensation. This has proven to be the case in both Argentina and Nigeria. Since the wealthy are presumably not in need of money, goods or services, it would require a much larger compensation in order to sway their vote. However, as seen in the case of Argentina for example, citizens who reside within poor communities are in great need of income, or medical services, for example, to feed their families and keep them in good health. With that being said, a much smaller sum of cash or a medical prescription would be of much greater value and thus their political support can be much easier to purchase.\n\nThe main concern of a person when engaging in vote buying for the party involved is how to ensure that the votes the unethical candidate are buying are being cast in his/her favor. For example, in Argentina as in many other representative democracies, there is a secret ballot that is used to cast votes. In some cases, there have been instances of voter tickets, or monitoring by individuals. Voters seeking to be compensated for their votes would use specially-provided voter ballots, or would fold their ballot in a particular way in order to indicate that they voted for the candidate they were paid to vote for. Monitoring could also include taking attendance at campaigns rallies, or keeping track of who took party transportation to voting booths. Many scholars hold that this strategy of accountability works best in smaller communities as there is less anonymity, thus more incentive to vote as you are directed for fear of repercussion. Another strategy has been to invoke personalized social norms to make voters honor their contracts at the voting booth. Such social norms could include personal obligation such as moral debts, social obligations to the buyers, or a threat of withholding or ceasing to produce necessary resources. This is made more effective when the rewards are delivered personally by the candidate or someone close to them, in order to create a sense of gratitude on behalf of the voters towards the candidate. A third strategy is informal sanctions. These are placed on voters who refuse material offers or who don’t vote as instructed. This type of sanction relies however on the ability to discern who voted as instructed and who did not. This issue of monitoring is of ongoing concern for political parties, and new ways to do so are constantly being developed.\n\nThere are several negative consequences that arise from the practice of vote buying. The presence of vote buying in democratic states poses a threat to democracy itself, as it interferes with the ability to rely on a popular vote as a measure of people's support for potential governments' policies.\n\nAnother noted consequence is that the autonomy of voters is undermined. Since getting paid or receiving rewards for their votes generates a form of income that they may need to support themselves or their families, they have no autonomy to cast the vote that they truly want. This is extremely problematic because if it is the most corrupt politicians who are engaging in vote buying, then it is their interests that remain the ones that dictate how the country is going to be run. This, in turn, perpetuates corruption in the system even further creating an unbreakable cycle.\n\nThirdly, vote buying can create a dependency of voters on the income or goods that they are receiving for their votes, and can further perpetuate a type of poverty trap. If they are receiving medicine from their communities’ broker for example, if this tie is cut off then they may no longer have access to this necessity. It can be true that the broker in that community has no interest or incentive to actually increase the standards of living of the community members, as it is very possible that they are only interested in getting whatever share of the profit they are entitled to for working for the party. Additionally, if the goods or money are coming directly from a candidate, this candidate’s only wish is to maintain their power. That being said, they may provide services but their real interest may lie in keeping the voters dependent on the rewards they are providing in order to stay in power.\n\nTurnout buying occurs when a political party or candidate offers citizens compensation in order for them to turn out to the election, but does not monitor who they voted for specifically.\n\nAccording to research done by Nichter, the United States has seen its fair share of turnout buying in recent elections. During the 2004 election, five Democratic Party operatives in East St. Louis were convicted in federal court for offering cigarettes, beer, medicine and $5 to $10 reward to increase turnout of the poor. One operative pleaded guilty and stated that if they didn’t provide rewards, \"they\" (the poor) wouldn’t come out. A local election in Oakland is another example. Campaign workers handed out thousands of coupons for free chicken dinners in an explicit and targeted effort to draw voters to the polls.\n\nIn Susan Stokes’ article on corruption in elections in Argentina, she describes the case as being an example in which vote buying is taking place. This is further discussed in the section in vote buying above (link) Although this case was originally thought of as vote buying, another scholar by the name of Nitcher believes that it is, in fact, a case of turnout buying. Nichter simplifies Stokes’ original model that favors vote buying and finds that the populations who are actually being targeted in Argentina are in fact strong supporters of the party. This contradicts Stokes’ theory of weakly opposed voters being targeted and points to a situation of turnout buying instead.\nOne advantage of turnout buying is that it has the potential to increase political participation. The practice of vote buying is extremely corrupt which only hurts the state of a democracy. However, Nichter argues that turnout buying is arguably less corrupt than vote buying. Since it increases the likelihood of voter participation, we may see a more accurate representation of what the citizens want for their country’s politics. This could, in turn, enhance the quality of the country's democracy and the prevalence of the opinions and wishes of the voters. Since there is no direct monitoring of who an individual votes for, as long as they turn out to the voting booth then they will receive the compensation they were promised, but can still vote for whomever they desire.\n\nAlthough it is easier by far to monitor the turnout of an election over which votes were cast for which politicians, large problems still remain with turnout buying. Firstly, even though it has been said that turnout buying is less corrupt, this may not be the case. The practice of turnout buying, similarly to vote buying, can undermine voter autonomy. If a voter is given some type of compensation for turning out to an election to vote, this compensation and who it came from may play a part in who they vote for. Since the poorer demographics are largely the ones being targeted by turnout buying, they are also more likely to accept the rewards. For example, if Candidate A paid Voter B to turn out to the upcoming federal election, they may feel a subconscious loyalty to Candidate A, and this may sway their vote even if they are more aligned with the ideologies and policy of Candidate B. Even though the compensation is simply given for turning out to the voting booths, the politicians or broker giving the compensation may still have an agenda which is made clear to the voter. Meaning that turnout buying could still be inadvertent vote buying.\n\nMany scholars have noted that the capacity of the politicians to monitor their brokers is the means through which turnout buying becomes effective or not. If the mechanisms put in place to monitor the turn out that the party has paid for aren’t effective enough, then there will be no way of knowing if their resources are generating the results they want.\n\nAs with vote buying, turnout buying undermines the legitimacy of democracy. Only the wealthiest of political parties have the resources to buy turnout from voters. This leaves less wealthy but potentially more qualified parties at a loss when it comes to competing in elections.\n\nPeople may distribute false or misleading information in order to affect the outcome of an election. For example, in the Chilean presidential election of 1970, the U.S. government's Central Intelligence Agency used \"black propaganda\"—materials purporting to be from various political parties—to sow discord between members of a coalition between socialists and communists.\n\nAnother use of disinformation is to give voters incorrect information about the time or place of polling, thus causing them to miss their chance to vote. As part of the 2011 Canadian federal election voter suppression scandal, Elections Canada traced fraudulent phone calls, telling voters that their polling stations had been moved, to a telecommunications company that worked with the Conservative Party.\n\nBallot papers may be used to discourage votes for a particular party or candidate, using the design or other features which confuse voters into voting for a different candidate. For example, in the 2000 U.S. presidential election, Florida's butterfly ballot paper was criticized as poorly designed, leading some voters to vote for the wrong candidate. While ballot was designed by a Democrat, it was the Democrat, Al Gore, who was most harmed by voter errors because of this design. Poor or misleading design is usually not illegal and therefore not technically election fraud, but it can nevertheless subvert the principles of democracy.\n\nSweden has a system with separate ballots used for each party, to reduce confusion among candidates. However, ballots from small parties such as piratpartiet, junilistan and feministiskt initiativ have been omitted or placed on a separate table in the election to the EU parliament in 2009. Ballots from Sweden Democrats have been mixed with ballots from the larger Swedish Social Democratic Party, which used a very similar font for the party name written on the top of the ballot.\n\nAnother method of confusing people into voting for a different candidate than intended is to run candidates or create political parties with similar names or symbols as an existing candidate or party. The goal is to mislead voters into voting for the false candidate or party to influence the results. Such tactics may be particularly effective when a large proportion of voters have limited literacy in the language used on the ballot. Again, such tactics are usually not illegal but often work against the principles of democracy.\n\nAnother type of possible electoral confusion is multiple variations of voting by different electoral systems. This may cause ballots to be counted as invalid if the wrong system is used. For instance, if a voter puts a first-past-the-post cross in a numbered single transferable vote ballot paper, it is invalidated. For example, in Scotland and other parts of the United Kingdom, up to four different voting systems and types of ballots may be used, based on the jurisdictional level of elections for candidates. Local elections are determined by single transferable votes; Scottish parliamentary elections by the additional member system; national elections for the UK Parliament by first-past-the-post; and elections to the European Parliament by a party list system.\n\nBallot stuffing, or \"ballot-box stuffing\", is the illegal practice of one person submitting multiple ballots during a vote in which only one ballot per person is permitted.\n\nBallot stuffing is still possible with electronic machines. For example, a version of the Sequoia touchscreen voting machine has a yellow button on the back side that allows repeated voting. Pressing the button triggers two audible beeps to alert election observers about the illegal votes.\n\nMany elections feature multiple opportunities for unscrupulous officials or 'helpers' to record an elector's vote differently from their intentions. Voters who require assistance to cast their votes are particularly vulnerable to having their votes stolen in this way. For example, a blind or illiterate person may be told that they have voted for one party when in fact they have been led to vote for another. This is similar to the misuse of proxy votes; however, in this case, the voter will be under the impression that they have voted with the assistance of the other person, rather than having the other person voting on their behalf.\n\nWhere votes are recorded through electronic or mechanical means, the voting machinery may be altered so that a vote intended for one candidate is recorded for another.\n\nProxy voting is particularly vulnerable to election fraud, due to the amount of trust placed in the person who casts the vote. In several countries, there have been allegations of retirement home residents being asked to fill out 'absentee voter' forms. When the forms are signed and gathered, they are secretly rewritten as applications for proxy votes, naming party activists or their friends and relatives as the proxies. These people, unknown to the voter, cast the vote for the party of their choice. In the United Kingdom, this is known as 'granny farming.'\n\nOne of the simplest methods of electoral fraud is to destroy ballots for an opposing candidate or party. While mass destruction of ballots can be difficult to execute without drawing attention, in a very close election, it may be possible to destroy a very small number of ballot papers without detection, thereby changing the overall result. Blatant destruction of ballot papers can render an election invalid and force it to be re-run. If a party can improve its vote on the re-run election, it can benefit from such destruction as long as it is not linked to it.\n\nAnother method is to make it appear that the voter has spoiled his or her ballot, thus rendering it invalid. Typically this would be done by adding another mark to the paper, making it appear that the voter has voted for more candidates than entitled, for instance. It would be difficult to do this to a large number of paper ballots without detection in some locales, but altogether too simple in others, especially jurisdictions where legitimate ballot spoiling by voter would serve a clear and reasonable aim. Examples may include emulating protest votes in jurisdictions that have recently had and since abolished a \"none of the above\" or \"against all\" voting option, civil disobedience where voting is mandatory, and attempts at discrediting or invalidating an election. An unusually large share of invalidated ballots may be attributed to loyal supporters of candidates that lost in primaries or previous rounds, did not run or did not qualify to do so, or some manner of protest movement or organized boycott.\n\nAll voting systems face threats of some form of electoral fraud. The types of threats that affect voting machines vary. Research at Argonne National Laboratories revealed that a single individual with physical access to a machine, such as a Diebold Accuvote TS, can install inexpensive, readily-available electronic components to manipulate its functions.\n\nOther examples include:\n\n\nSome commentators, such as former Federal Election Commission member Hans von Spakovsky, have claimed that voter impersonation fraud, in which one person votes by impersonating another, eligible voter, is widespread, but documentation has been scarce and prosecutions rare. Numerous others, such as Professor Larry Sabato, and a variety of studies have shown this to be \"relatively rare\" in the USA. Since 2013, when the US Supreme Court ruled that a provision of the Voting Rights Act was no longer enforceable, several states have passed voter ID laws, ostensibly to counter the alleged fraud. But many experts counter that voter ID laws are not very effective against some forms of impersonation. These ID laws have been challenged by minority groups that claimed to be disadvantaged by the changes. By August 2016, four federal court rulings overturned laws or parts of such laws because they placed undue burdens on minority populations, including African Americans and Native Americans. In each case: Texas, North Carolina, Wisconsin, and North Dakota, and may adversely affect minority voters. The states are required to accept alternatives for the November 2016 elections. These cases are expected to reach the US Supreme Court for hearings.\n\nAllegations of widespread voter fraud in the 2016 United States presidential election by busing out-of-state voters to New Hampshire were found to be false. Suspcions of hacking of electronic voting machines in Wisconsin, Michigan, and Pennsylvania were determined to be unfounded.\n\nThe N.C. Board of Elections reported in 2017 on questions of voter fraud and the state's proposed voter ID law. The report showed that out of 4,769,640 votes cast in the Nov 2016 election in North Carolina, only one illegal vote would potentially have been blocked by the voter ID law. The investigation found fewer than 500 incidences of invalid ballots cast, the vast majority of which were cast by individuals on probation for felony who were likely not aware that this status disqualified them from voting, and the total amount of invalid votes was far too small to have affected the outcome of any race in North Carolina in the 2016 election.\n\nIn particularly corrupt regimes, the voting process may be nothing more than a sham, as officials would simply announce whatever results they want, sometimes without even bothering to count the votes. Such practices tend to draw international condemnation, but voters typically have little recourse, as there would seldom be any ways to remove the \"winner\" from power, short of a revolution.\n\nVote fraud can also take place in legislatures. Some of the forms used in national elections can also be used in parliaments, particularly intimidation and vote-buying. Because of the much smaller number of voters, however, election fraud in legislatures is qualitatively different in many ways. Fewer people are needed to 'swing' the election, and therefore specific people can be targeted in ways impractical on a larger scale. For example, Adolf Hitler achieved his dictatorial powers due to the Enabling Act of 1933. He attempted to achieve the necessary two-thirds majority to pass the Act by arresting members of the opposition, though this turned out to be unnecessary to attain the needed majority. Later, the Reichstag was packed with Nazi party members who voted for the Act's renewal.\n\nIn many legislatures, voting is public, in contrast to the secret ballot used in most modern public elections. This may make their elections more vulnerable to some forms of fraud since a politician can be pressured by others who will know how he or she has voted. However, it may also protect against bribery and blackmail, since the public and media will be aware if a politician votes in an unexpected way. Since voters and parties are entitled to pressure politicians to vote a particular way, the line between legitimate and fraudulent pressure is not always clear.\n\nAs in public elections, proxy votes are particularly prone to fraud. In some systems, parties may vote on behalf of any member who is not present in parliament. This protects those members from missing out on voting if prevented from attending parliament, but it also allows their party to prevent them from voting against its wishes. In some legislatures, proxy voting is not allowed, but politicians may rig voting buttons or otherwise illegally cast \"ghost votes\" while absent.\n\nThe two main strategies for the prevention of electoral fraud in society are: 1) Deterrence through consistent and effective prosecution; and 2) Cultivation of mores that discourage corruption. The two main fraud prevention tactics can be summarised as secrecy and openness. The secret ballot prevents many kinds of intimidation and vote selling, while transparency at all other levels of the electoral process prevents and allows detection of most interference.\n\nThe patterns of conventional behaviour in a society, or mores, are an effective means for preventing electoral fraud and corruption in general. A good example is Sweden, where the culture has a strong tendency toward positive values, resulting in a low incidence of political corruption. Until recently Canada had a similar reputation. The In and Out scandal of 2008 and the Robocall scandal of 2011 has tarnished Canada's electoral integrity.\n\nAn advantage of cultivating positive mores as a prevention strategy is that it is effective across all electoral systems and devices. A disadvantage is that it makes other prevention and detection efforts more difficult to implement because members of society generally have more trust and less of a sense for fraudulent methods.\n\nThe secret ballot, in which only the voter knows how they have voted, is believed by many to be a crucial part of ensuring free and fair elections through preventing voter intimidation or retribution. Others argue that the secret ballot enables election fraud (because it makes it harder to verify that votes have been counted correctly) and that it discourages voter participation. Although the secret ballot was sometimes practiced in ancient Greece and was a part of the Constitution of the Year III of 1795, it only became common in the nineteenth century. Secret balloting appears to have been first implemented in the former British colony—now an Australian state—of Tasmania on 7 February 1856. By the turn of the century, the practice had spread to most Western democracies.\n\nIn the United States, the popularity of the Australian ballot grew as reformers in the late 19th century sought to reduce the problems of election fraud. Groups such as the Greenbackers, Nationalist, and more fought for those who yearned to vote, but were exiled for their safety. George Walthew, Greenback, helped initiate one of the first secret ballots in America in Michigan in 1885. Even George Walthew had a predecessor in John Seitz, Greenback, who campaigned a bill to \" preserve the purity of elections\" in 1879 after the discovery of Ohio's electoral fraud in congressional elections.\n\nThe efforts of many helped accomplish this and led to the spread of other secret ballots all across the country. As mentioned on February 18, 1890, in the Galveston News “The Australian ballot has come to stay. It protects the independence of the voter and largely puts a stop to vote to buy.” Before this, it was common for candidates to intimidate or bribe voters, as they would always know who had voted which way.\n\nMost methods of preventing electoral fraud involve making the election process completely transparent to all voters, from nomination of candidates through casting of the votes and tabulation. A key feature in ensuring the integrity of any part of the electoral process is a strict chain of custody.\n\nTo prevent fraud in central tabulation, there has to be a public list of the results from every single polling place. This is the only way for voters to prove that the results they witnessed in their election office are correctly incorporated into the totals.\n\nEnd-to-end auditable voting systems provide voters with a receipt to allow them to verify their vote was cast correctly, and an audit mechanism to verify that the results were tabulated correctly and all votes were cast by valid voters. However, the ballot receipt does not permit voters to prove to others how they voted, since this would open the door towards forced voting and blackmail. End-to-end systems include Punchscan and Scantegrity, the latter being an add-on to optical scan systems instead of a replacement.\n\nIn many cases, election observers are used to help prevent fraud and assure voters that the election is fair. International observers (bilateral and multilateral) may be invited to observe the elections (examples include election observation by the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), European Union election observation missions, observation missions of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), as well as international observation organised by NGOs, such as CIS-EMO, European Network of Election Monitoring Organizations (ENEMO), etc.). Some countries also invite foreign observers (i.e. bi-lateral observation, as opposed to multi-lateral observation by international observers).\n\nIn addition, national legislatures of countries often permit domestic observation. Domestic election observers can be either partisan (i.e. representing interests of one or a group of election contestants) or non-partisan (usually done by civil society groups). Legislations of different countries permit various forms and extents of international and domestic election observation.\n\nElection observation is also prescribed by various international legal instruments. For example, paragraph 8 of the 1990 Copenhagen Document states that \"The [OSCE] participating States consider that the presence of observers, both foreign and domestic, can enhance the electoral process for States in which elections are taking place. They, therefore, invite observers from any other CSCE participating States and any appropriate private institutions and organisations who may wish to do so to observe the course of their national election proceedings, to the extent permitted by law. They will also endeavour to facilitate similar access for election proceedings held below the national level. Such observers will undertake not to interfere in the electoral proceedings\".\n\nCritics note that observers cannot spot certain types of election fraud like targeted voter suppression or manipulated software of voting machines.\n\nVarious forms of statistics can be indicators of election fraud, e.g. exit polls which diverge from the final results. Well-conducted exit polls serve as a deterrent to electoral fraud. However, exit polls are still notoriously imprecise. For instance, in the Czech Republic, some voters are afraid or ashamed to admit that they voted for the Communist Party (exit polls in 2002 gave the Communist party 2–3 percentage points less than the actual result).\n\nWhen elections are marred by ballot-box stuffing (e.g., the Armenian presidential elections of 1996 and 1998), the affected polling stations will show abnormally high voter turnouts with results favouring a single candidate. By graphing the number of votes against turnout percentage (i.e., aggregating polling stations results within a given turnout range), the divergence from bell-curve distribution gives an indication of the extent of the fraud. Stuffing votes in favour of a single candidate affects votes vs. turnout distributions for that candidate and other candidates differently; this difference could be used to quantitatively assess the number of votes stuffed. Also, these distributions sometimes exhibit spikes at round-number turnout percentage values. High numbers of invalid ballots, overvoting or undervoting are other potential indicators.\n\nRisk-limiting audits are methods to assess the validity of an election result statistically without the effort of a full election recount.\n\nIn the United States one such case was in Pennsylvania where Bill Stinson won an election based on fraudulent absentee ballots. The courts ruled that his opponent be seated in the state Senate as a result.\n\nIn the Philippines, former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo was arrested in 2011 following the filing of criminal charges against her for electoral sabotage, in connection with the Philippine general election, 2007. She was accused of conspiring with election officials to ensure the victory of her party's senatorial slate in the province of Maguindanao, through the tampering of election returns.\n\nOne method for verifying voting machine accuracy is Parallel Testing, the process of using an independent set of results compared to the original machine results. Parallel testing can be done prior to or during an election. During an election, one form of parallel testing is the VVPAT. Voter-verified paper audit trail (VVPAT) or verified paper record (VPR) is a method of providing feedback to voters using a ballotless voting system. A VVPAT is intended as an independent verification system for voting machines designed to allow voters to verify that their vote was cast correctly, to detect possible election fraud or malfunction, and to provide a means to audit the stored electronic results. This method is only effective if statistically significant numbers of voters verify that their intended vote matches both the electronic and paper votes.\n\nOn election day, a statistically significant number of voting machines can be randomly selected from polling locations and used for testing. This can be used to detect potential fraud or malfunction unless manipulated software would only start to cheat after a certain event like a voter pressing a special key combination (Or a machine might cheat only if someone doesn't perform the combination, which requires more insider access but fewer voters).\n\nAnother form of testing is Logic & Accuracy Testing (L&A), pre-election testing of voting machines using test votes to determine if they are functioning correctly.\n\nAnother method to ensure the integrity of electronic voting machines is independent software verification and certification. Once a software is certified, code signing can ensure the software certified is identical to that which is used on election day. Some argue certification would be more effective if voting machine software was publicly available or open source.\n\nCertification and testing processes conducted publicly and with oversight from interested parties can promote transparency in the election process. The integrity of those conducting testing can be questioned.\n\nTesting and certification can prevent voting machines from being a black box where voters cannot be sure that counting inside is done as intended.\n\nOne method that people have argued would help prevent these machines from being tampered with would be for the companies that produce the machines to share the source code, which displays and captures the ballots, with computer scientists. This would allow external sources to make sure that the machines are working correctly.\n\nThe Help America Vote Act (), or HAVA, is a United States federal law enacted on October 29, 2002. It was drafted (at least in part) in reaction to the controversy surrounding the 2000 U.S. presidential election. The goals of HAVA are: to replace punchcard and lever-based voting systems; create the Election Assistance Commission to assist in the administration of Federal elections; and establish minimum election administration standards.\n\nThis was the most important federal legislation of the 20th century to protect voting rights, especially of ethnic and language minorities who had been disenfranchised for decades by states' constitutions and practices. Initially, it was particularly important for enforcing the constitutional right of African Americans in the South to vote, where millions of people had been mostly disenfranchised since the turn of the 20th century and excluded from politics. The law has also protected other ethnicities, such as Hispanics, Asians, Native Americans, and language minorities in other states, who have been discriminated against at various times, especially in the process of voter registration and electoral practices.\n\nThe Civil Rights Act of 1964 () was a landmark piece of legislation in the United States that outlawed major forms of discrimination against African Americans and other minorities.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57590835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57590835", "title": "Elena Reynaga", "text": "Elena Reynaga\n\nElena Eva Reynaga (born 1953 in Jujuy) is an Argentinian former sex worker and women human rights defender who campaigns for the rights of sex workers. She is a founding member of Association of Women Sex Workers in Argentina (\"Asociación de Mujeres Meretrices de la Argentina, AMMAR\") and Executive Secretary of the Network of Women Sex workers of Latina America and the Caribbean (\"Red de Mujeres Trabajadoras Sexuales de Latinoamérica y Caribe, RedTraSex\").\n\nReynaga became a sex worker at 19. After being a victim of institutional violence and experiencing imprisonment multiple times in Argentinar, she travelled to work in Spain for a time. She returned to Argentina and founded AMMAR in 1994 in response to police harassment and violence. \n\nAccording to the organization, between 1996 and 2001, 41 member of AMMAR were murdered. AMMAR operates as a trade union and since 1995 it has been an affiliated member of the Argentine Workers' Central Union (\"Central de Trabajadores de la Argentina\"). AMMAR has also been part of RedTraSex since 1997; Reynaga has been its Executive Secretary since 1999. The organization works for the defence, promotion, recognition and respect for human rights of sex workers in fifteen countries. Reynaga co-edited \"Un Movimiento de Tacones Altos\" (The High Heels Movement) a manual for the defense of sex workers' rights published in 2007.\n\nReynaga has also campaigned on issues related to health (HIV/AIDS) In 2008, she was the first to address the issue of sex worker's rights in a plenary session of the International AIDS Conference, where she asked for better working conditions, health care, recognition of sex work as work, and called on the audience to see sex workers not as the problem, but as \"part of the solution\". \n\nIn 2009, the Buenos Aires legislature recognised Reynaga as \"Outstanding Public Figure for the Human Rights of Women\" (in Spanish “Personalidad Destacada de los Derechos Humanos de las Mujeres”). In 2014 she was recognised by the Argentinian Senate for her human rights work and leadership against discrimination and stigma, as well as the reclamation of female sex workers as workers. In 2016 she was elected onto a UN advisory board.\n"}
{"id": "190008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=190008", "title": "English-only movement", "text": "English-only movement\n\nThe English-only movement, also known as the Official English movement, is a political movement for the use of only the English language in official United States government operations through the establishment of English as the only official language in the US. The US has never had a legal policy proclaiming an official national language. However, at some times and places, there have been various moves to promote or require the use of English, such as in American Indian boarding schools. Some language selection policies have been implemented at the state level. These efforts are being driven by U.S. English, the nation's oldest and largest organization advocating for Official English.\n\nDisputes between citizens and immigrants over English have been waged since the 1750s, when street signs were changed in Pennsylvania to include both English and German languages to accommodate the many German immigrants. According to Rich and Vance, the German-English debate continued until World War I when international hostility resulted in the rejection of all things German, including the prohibition of the German language and German-language materials, particularly books.\n\nIn 1803, as a result of the Louisiana Purchase, the United States acquired French-speaking populations in Louisiana. As a condition to admittance to the Union, Louisiana included in its constitution a provision, which was later repealed, that required all official documents be published in the language \"in which the Constitution of the United States is written\". Today, Louisiana has no law stating that English is the official language of the State.\n\nAfter the Mexican–American War (1846–1848), the United States acquired about 75,000 Spanish speakers in addition to several indigenous language-speaking populations.\n\nAn 1847 law authorized Anglo-French instruction in public schools in Louisiana. In 1849, the California constitution recognized Spanish language rights. French language rights were abolished after the American Civil War. In 1868, the Indian Peace Commission recommended English-only schooling for the Native Americans. In 1878–79, the California constitution was rewritten to state that \"[a]ll laws of the State of California, and all official writings, and the executive, legislative, and judicial proceedings shall be conducted, preserved, and published in no other than the English language.\"\n\nIn the late 1880s, Wisconsin and Illinois passed English-only instruction laws for both public and parochial schools.\n\nIn 1896, under the Republic of Hawaii government, English became the primary medium of public schooling for Hawaiian children. After the Spanish–American War, English was declared \"the official language of the school room\" in Puerto Rico. In the same way, English was declared the official language in the Philippines, after the Philippine–American War.\n\nDuring World War I, there was a widespread campaign against the use of the German language in the US; this included removing books in the German language from libraries. (A related action took place in South Australia as well with the Nomenclature Act of 1917. The legislation renamed 69 towns, suburbs, or areas that had German names.)\n\nIn 1923, a bill drafted by Congressman Washington J. McCormick became the first proposed legislation regarding the United States' national language that would have made \"American\" the national language in order to differentiate the United States's language from that of England. This bill did not pass in Congress despite significant support—especially from Irish immigrants who were resentful of British influence.\n\nIn 1907, US President Theodore Roosevelt wrote, \"We have room for but one language in this country, and that is the English language, for we intend to see that the crucible turns our people out as Americans, of American nationality, and not as dwellers in a polyglot boarding house.\"\n\nU.S. English, the nation's oldest and largest organization advocating for Official English, summarizes their belief by saying that \"the passage of English as the official language will help to expand opportunities for immigrants to learn and speak English, the single greatest empowering tool that immigrants must have to succeed.\"\n\nProEnglish, the nation's leading advocates of Official English, summarizes their belief that \"in a pluralistic nation such as ours, the function of government should be to foster and support the similarities that unite us, rather than institutionalize the differences that divide us.\" Therefore, ProEnglish \"works through the courts and in the court of public opinion to defend English's historic role as America's common, unifying language, and to persuade lawmakers to adopt English as the official language at all levels of government.\"\n\nIn 1980, Dade County, Florida voters approved an \"anti-bilingual ordinance\". However, this was repealed by the county commission in 1993, after \"racially orientated redistricting\" led to a change in government.\n\nIn 1981, English was declared the official language in the commonwealth of Virginia.\n\nIn 1983, John Tanton and U.S. Senator S. I. Hayakawa founded a political lobbying organization, U.S. English. (Tanton was a former head of the Sierra Club's population committee and of Zero Population Growth, and founder of the Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR), an immigration reductionist group.) In 1986, Tanton wrote a memo containing remarks about Hispanics claimed by critics to be derogatory, which appeared in the \"Arizona Republic\" newspaper, leading to the resignations from U.S. English board member Walter Cronkite and executive director Linda Chavez; Tanton would also sever his ties to the organization as a result. That same year, 1986, Larry Pratt founded English First, while Lou Zaeske, an engineer from Bryan, Texas, established the American Ethnic Coalition. Mauro Mujica, a Chilean immigrant, was later named Chairman and CEO in 1993.\n\nIn 1985, Kae T. Patrick, a member of the Texas House of Representatives from San Antonio was the lone supporter of his unsuccessful attempt to authorize English as the official language of Texas. His House Concurrent Resolution No. 13 died in the State Affairs Committee. Patrick said his resolution was more important than having a \"state bird\". In subsequent sessions of the legislature, the move toward Official English gained supporters, including Talmadge Heflin of Houston, but never enough members to approve enactment of a law.\n\nIn 1994, John Tanton and other former U.S. English associates founded ProEnglish specifically to defend Arizona's English-only law. ProEnglish rejects the term \"English-only movement\" and asks its supporters to refer to the movement instead as \"Official English\".\n\nThe U.S. Senate voted on two separate changes to an immigration bill in May 2006. The amended bill recognized English as a \"common and unifying language\" and gave contradictory instructions to government agencies on their obligations for non-English publications.\n\nIn what was essentially a replay of the 2006 actions, on June 6, 2007 the US Senate again voted on two separate amendments to a subsequent immigration reform bill that closely resembled the amendments to the 2006 Senate bill.\n\nOn January 22, 2009, voters in Nashville, Tennessee rejected a proposal under a referendum election to make \"Nashville the largest city in the United States to prohibit the government from using languages other than English, with exceptions allowed for issues of health and safety.\" The initiative failed by a vote of 57% to 43%.\n\nIn March 2012, Republican presidential candidate Rick Santorum was criticized by some Republican delegates from Puerto Rico when he publicly took the position that Puerto Rico, a Spanish-speaking territory, should be required to make English its primary language as a condition of statehood.\n\nThe modern English-only movement has met with rejection from the Linguistic Society of America, which passed a resolution in 1986–87 opposing \"'English only' measures on the grounds that they are based on misconceptions about the role of a common language in establishing political unity, and that they are inconsistent with basic American traditions of linguistic tolerance.\"\n\nLinguist Geoffrey Pullum, in an essay entitled \"Here come the linguistic fascists\", charges English First with \"hatred and suspicion of aliens and immigrants\" and points out that English is far from under threat in the United States, saying \"making English the official language of the United States of America is about as urgently called for as making hotdogs the official food at baseball games.\" Rachele Lawton, applying critical discourse analysis, argues that English-only's rhetoric suggests that the \"real motivation is discrimination and disenfranchisement.\"\n\nThe American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) has stated that English-only laws are inconsistent with both the First Amendment right to communicate with or petition the government, as well as free speech and the right to equality, because they bar government employees from providing non-English language assistance and services. On August 11, 2000, President Bill Clinton signed Executive Order 13166, \"Improving Access to Services for Persons with Limited English Proficiency.\" The Executive Order requires Federal agencies to examine the services they provide, identify any need for services to those with limited English proficiency (LEP), and develop and implement a system to provide those services so LEP persons can have meaningful access to them.\n\nWhile the judicial system has noted that state English-only laws are largely symbolic and non-prohibitive, supervisors and managers often interpret them to mean English is the mandatory language of daily life. In one instance, an elementary school bus driver prohibited students from speaking Spanish on their way to school after Colorado passed its legislation. In 2004 in Scottsdale, a teacher claimed to be enforcing English immersion policies when she allegedly slapped students for speaking Spanish in class. In 2005 in Kansas City, a student was suspended for speaking Spanish in the school hallways. The written discipline referral explaining the decision of the school to suspend the student for one and a half days, noted: \"This is not the first time we have [asked] Zach and others to not speak Spanish at school.\"\n\nOne study of English-only statutes during the Americanization period (1910–1930) finds that the policies moderately increased the literacy of certain foreign-born children but had no impact on immigrants' eventual labor market outcomes or measures of social integration.\n\nThe United States federal government does not specify an official language; however, all official documents in the U.S. are written in English, though some are also published in other languages.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1557008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1557008", "title": "Equivalent National Tertiary Entrance Rank", "text": "Equivalent National Tertiary Entrance Rank\n\nThe Equivalent National Tertiary Entrance Rank (ENTER) was the national Australian tertiary entrance rank, administered by Universities Australia (previously called the Australian Vice-Chancellors' Committee). It was a percentile ranking, designed to simplify the comparison of entrance levels for students educated in different processes of admission for university applicants from interstate. It was replaced by the Australian Tertiary Admission Rank from 2010.\n\nThe term ENTER was only used in Victoria (1999-2009), although the actual rank was identical and equivalent to the Universities Admission Index (UAI) used in New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory, and to the Tertiary Entrance Rank (TER) used in South Australia, the Northern Territory, Tasmania and Western Australia. Queensland used a different system called the Overall Position (OP), but conversion tables were published each year to convert the OP to or from an ENTER.\n\nNon-school-leaver university applicants were selected using other criteria: usually previous results, or results in the Special Tertiary Admissions Test.\n\nEach state's university and government education authorities determined the method of calculation of the ENTER or state-equivalent for students from that state, due to the historical differences between different state's education systems. However, these decisions were co-ordinated to ensure that the necessary equivalence is maintained (i.e. so that an ENTER of 90.00 from Victoria would indicate a sufficiently similar degree of attainment as a UAI of 90.00 from New South Wales, in spite of the differences in each rank's methods of application.)\n\nThe Victorian Curriculum and Assessment Authority (VCAA) was the authority responsible for conducting assessments in Victoria. It determined Study Scores for each Victorian Certificate of Education (VCE) Unit 3/4 subject successfully completed by a student, ranging from 0 to 50. It also determined whether a student had \"satisfactorily\" completed the VCE.\n\nFor all students who satisfactorily completed the VCE, and who meet certain other criteria for receiving an ENTER, VCAA provided the students' Subject Study Scores to the Victorian Tertiary Admissions Centre (VTAC). VTAC then scaled the Subject Study Scores to allow for cross-study calculations - that is, the Study Scores were adjusted up or down to take into account the strength of competition amongst the cohort of students studying the subject that year. Scaling was undertaken to ensure that each subject contributes equally to the ENTER. In other words, a 25 in English was equivalent to a 25 in Mathematical Methods or a 25 in any other VCE subject. The scaled Study Scores are referred to as \"ENTER subject scores\".\n\nVTAC determines an ENTER for each student who satisfactorily completed at least one subject in the current year, and who had obtained VCE Study Scores in an English study and at least three other studies in an allowable combination at the Unit 3 & 4 level.\n\nA student's overall ENTER was calculated as the total of:\n\n\nCandidates were ranked in order of these aggregates. The ENTER was the percentile ranking of each student's position on this list in steps of 0.05 ranging from 0.00 to 99.95. For instance, an ENTER of 80.00 indicated that the aggregate was higher than 80% of aggregates. Each 0.05 rank typically contained around 20 students, depending on the number of students in the cohort each year.\n\nRanks less than 30.00 were typically only disclosed as \"less than 30\", as the exact ranking at this low level was not deemed educationally useful and may have been demoralising to the recipient.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55613621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55613621", "title": "Estonian Land Reform of 1919", "text": "Estonian Land Reform of 1919\n\nThe Estonian Land Reform Act 1919 (Estonian: 1919. Eesti maareform) was passed in Estonia on the 10 October 1919 shortly after the independence of the nation earlier that year. The act expropriated land from the Baltic German landowners which had previously made up much of the landowning elite. As part of the act the government distributed the nationalised land to mainly Estonian small farmers. \n\nThe reforms expropriated 1065 manors (96.6% of large landowners were affected) of which only 57 manors came from Estonian owners with the rest owned mainly by Baltic Germans along with land from the Russian state and church land. The amount of land in total nationalised came to over 2.34 million hectares of land which accounted for 58% of the total agricultural land in Estonia. Manorial industrial enterprises were also nationalised by the state and sold (this included 225 vodka factories, 344 mills, 74 sawmills, 64 stone and clay industries, 18 dairies and 7 breweries). Overall about 53,000 Estonian settlers received expropriated land with 1.2mn hectares going to the 23,000 individuals affected by the land reform (though just 3.6% of land was given back to the former owner)..\n\nIn 1926 the previous landowners affected by the reforms (mostly large native landowners) received a small amount of compensation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1705653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1705653", "title": "Export-oriented industrialization", "text": "Export-oriented industrialization\n\nExport-oriented industrialization (EOI) sometimes called export substitution industrialization (ESI), export led industrialization (ELI) or export-led growth is a trade and economic policy aiming to speed up the industrialization process of a country by exporting goods for which the nation has a comparative advantage. Export-led growth implies opening domestic markets to foreign competition in exchange for market access in other countries.\n\nHowever, this may not be true of all domestic markets, as governments may aim to protect specific nascent industries so they grow and are able to exploit their future comparative advantage and in practice the converse can occur. For example, many East Asian countries had strong barriers on imports from the 1960s to the 1980s.\n\nReduced tariff barriers, a floating exchange rate (a devaluation of national currency is often employed to facilitate exports), and government support for exporting sectors are all an example of policies adopted to promote EOI and, ultimately, economic development. Export-oriented industrialization was particularly characteristic of the development of the national economies of the Asian Tigers: Hong Kong, South Korea, Taiwan, and Singapore in the post-World War II period.\n\nExport-led growth is an economic strategy used by some developing countries. This strategy seeks to find a niche in the world economy for a certain type of export. Industries producing this export may receive governmental subsidies and better access to the local markets. By implementing this strategy, countries hope to gain enough hard currency to import commodities manufactured more cheaply elsewhere.\n\nIn addition, a recent mathematical study shows that export-led growth is where wage growth is repressed and linked to the productivity growth of non-tradable goods in a country with under-valued currency. In such a country, the productivity growth of export goods is greater than the proportional wage growth and the productivity growth of non-tradable goods. Thus, export price decreases in the export-led growth country and makes it more competitive in international trade.\n\nFrom the Great Depression to the years after World War II, under-developed and developing countries started to have a hard time economically. During this time, many foreign markets were closed and the danger of trading and shipping in war-time waters drove many of these countries to look for another solution to development. The initial solution to this dilemma was called import substitution industrialization. Both Latin American and Asian countries used this strategy at first. However, during the 1950s and 1960s the Asian countries, like Taiwan and South Korea, started focusing their development outward, resulting in an export-led growth strategy. Many of the Latin American countries continued with import substitution industrialization, just expanding its scope. Some have pointed out that because of the success of the Asian countries, especially Taiwan and South Korea, export-led growth should be considered the best strategy to promote development.\n\nExport-led growth is important for mainly two reasons: The first is that export-led growth improves the country's foreign-currency finances, as well as surpass their debts as long as the facilities and materials for the exports exist. The second, if more debatable reason, is that increased export-growth can trigger greater productivity, thus creating even more exports in a positive, upward spiral cycle.\n\nThe nomenclature of this concept appears in J.S.L McCombie et al (1994):\n\ny denotes the relationship between expenditures and income in foreign-currency trade; it marks the balance of payments constraint\n\ny is the growth capacity of the country, which can never be more than the current capacity\n\ny is the current capacity of growth, or how well the country is producing at that moment\n(i) y=y=y: balance-of-payments equilibrium and full employment\n\n(ii) y=y<y: balance-of-payments equilibrium and growing unemployment\n\n(iii)y<y=y: increasing balance-of-payments deficit and full employment\n\n(iv) y<y<y: increasing balance-of-payments deficit and growing unemployment\n\n(v) y>y=y: increasing balance-of-payments surplus and full employment\n\nCountries with both unemployment and balance-of-payments problems are supposed, according to the dominant economic paradigm, to orient their policies towards export-led growth aiming to achieve either situation (i) or situation (v).\n\nThere are essentially two types of exports used in this context: manufactured goods and raw materials.\n\nManufactured goods are the exports most commonly used to achieve export-led growth. However, many times these industries are competing against industrialized countries' industries, which often have better technology, better educated workers, and more capital to start with. Therefore, this strategy must be well thought out and planned. A country must find a certain export that they can manufacture well, in competition with industrialized industries.\n\nRaw materials are another export option. However, this strategy is risky compared to manufactured goods. If the terms of trade shift unfavorably, a country must export more and more of the raw materials to import the same amount of commodities, making the trade profits very difficult to come by.\n\nMainstream economic analysis points out that EOI presupposes that a government contains the relevant market-knowledge enabling it to judge whether or not an industry to be given development subsidies will prove a good investment in the future. The ability of a government to do this, it is argued, is probably limited as it will not have occurred through the natural interaction of the market forces of supply and demand. Additionally, they claim that the exploitation of a potential comparative advantage requires a significant amount of investment, of which governments can only supply a limited amount. In many LDCs, it is necessary for multinational corporations to provide the foreign direct investment, knowledge, skills and training needed to develop an industry and exploit the future comparative advantage.\n\nThis line of argument runs against heterodox (and particularly Post-Keynesian) analysis. There, the investment requirements for state investment, denominated in the national currency, are never operationally constrained; any claim about the \"limited\" ability of the state to finance expenditures in its own currency is rejected. Neither, Post-Keynesians state, is there a question of the private sector competing with the state for available funds, due to their opinions on hypotheses about \"crowding out\". As to the claim about the state's inability to engage in basic, primary, \"paradigm changing\" investment in research and development, the work of economists such as Mariana Mazzucato has claimed that the claim is groundless. \n\nScholars have claimed that governments in East Asia, nonetheless, did have the ability and the resources to identify and exploit comparative advantages. EOI has, therefore, been supported as a development strategy for poor countries - because of its success in the Four Asian Tigers. \n\nThis claim has been challenged by a minority of non-mainstream economists, who have instead emphasised the very specific historical, political, and legislative conditions in East Asia that were not present elsewhere, and which allowed for the success of EOI in these nations. Japanese producers, for example, were given preferential access to US and European markets after World War II. Additionally, some domestic production was explicitly protected from outside competition, for an extensive period of time and until local business entities had become strong enough to compete internationally. They claim that the protectionist policies are crucial to the success of EOI. \n\nDespite its support in mainstream economic circles, EOI's ostensible success has been increasingly challenged over recent years due to a growing number of examples in which it has not yielded the expected results. EOI increases market sensitivity to exogenous factors, and is partially responsible for the damage done by the 1997 Asian financial crisis to the economies of countries who used export-oriented industrialization. This is something which occurred during the financial crisis of 2007–08 and subsequent global recession. Similarly, localized disasters can cause worldwide shortages of the products that countries specialize in. For example, in 2010, flooding in Thailand led to a shortage of hard drives.\n\nOther criticisms include that export oriented industrialization has limited success if the economy is experiencing a decline in its terms of trade, where prices for its exports are rising at a slower rate than that of its imports. This is true of many economies aiming to exploit their comparative advantage in primary commodities as they have a long term trend of declining prices, noted in the Singer-Prebisch thesis though there are criticisms of this thesis as practical contradictions have occurred. Primary-commodity dependency also links to the weakness of excessive specialization as primary commodities have incredible price volatility, given the inelastic nature of their demand, leading to a disproportionately large change in price given a change in demand for them.\n\nNobel laureate Paul Krugman has criticized what he called the \"popular views\" on macroeconomic policy as they were shaped in the 1950s, and, particularly, regarding productivity and foreign-trade economic policy. The \"highly influential\" position that \"the United States needs higher productivity so that it can compete in today’s global economy\", he wrote, is akin to the person supporting it “wearing a flashing neon sign that reads: 'I don't know that I'm talking about'.\"\n\nOne of the main arguments against the assumption of export-oriented policies as potential solutions in a country's problems rests on the tenet that an economic orientation should be applicable to every country, in general and allowing for local conditions. If following an export-oriented path is beneficial for country A, then it should also be so for country B, \"ceteris paribus\". However, that is an impossible task since, as a matter of trivial logic, it is impossible for all the countries on the planet to become net exporters.\n"}
{"id": "11963500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11963500", "title": "FEC v. Wisconsin Right to Life, Inc.", "text": "FEC v. Wisconsin Right to Life, Inc.\n\nFederal Election Commission v. Wisconsin Right to Life, Inc., 551 U.S. 449 (2007), is a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court held that issue ads may not be banned from the months preceding a primary or general election.\n\nIn 2002, the Congress passed the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act (\"McCain-Feingold\" or \"BCRA\"), amending the Federal Election Campaign Act to further regulate money in public election campaigns. One primary purpose of the legislation was to regulate what were colloquially known as \"issue ads.\" \"Issue ads\" typically discussed a candidate name with regards to a particular issue, but because they did not expressly advocate the election or defeat of a candidate, they fell outside the prohibitions and limitations of the Federal Election Campaign Act. Section 203 of BCRA prohibited corporations and unions from directly or indirectly funding \"electioneering communications,\" defined as broadcast ads costing in excess of an aggregated $10,000 that mentioned a candidate for federal political office within 30 days of a primary election or 60 days of a general election. In \"McConnell v. Federal Election Commission,\" the Supreme Court upheld section 203 and other sections of the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act against a facial challenge that the law was unconstitutional.\n\nWisconsin Right to Life Inc. (\"WRTL\"), a nonprofit advocacy group, sought to run ads asking voters to contact their Senators and urge them to oppose filibusters of judicial nominees. (The text of one of WRTL's proposed ads is listed at the conclusion of this article). WRTL sought to run its ads within the 30- and 60-day blackout provisions of BCRA. However, because WRTL was itself incorporated and also because it accepted corporate contributions, it was prohibited from doing so. WRTL argued that the proposed ads addressed a current issue pending in Congress and did not advocate the election or defeat of a candidate. As such, the government had no compelling interest in prohibiting them from airing even during the election session.\n\nIn the first round of litigation, the federal district court ruled that the language of \"McConnell v. FEC\" precluded not only a facial challenge, but also an \"as applied\" challenge to this portion of BCRA and so dismissed the case. However, in \"Wisconsin Right to Life v. Federal Election Commission\" (\"WRTL I\"), the Supreme Court reversed and remanded the case to the lower courts to determine whether or not WRTL should be granted an \"as applied\" exception to the law.\n\nOn remand, the FEC argued that ads run so close to an election and naming a candidate or candidates should be presumed to have the intent of influencing the election, and thus BCRA's limitation on financing such ads with corporate funds was constitutionally valid. It argued that WRTL's specific ads were intended to and would influence the 2004 Senate election in Wisconsin. The district court rejected the FEC's argument and refused to delve into the matter of the intent and underlying meaning of the ads. The Court stated that such an investigation would be impractical and would \"have a chilling effect on protected speech.\" The District court thus limited its review to that content of the ad. In doing so, the court found that they were not \"sham\" issue ads and did not expressly advocate for or against a candidate. It, therefore, found that the government lacked a compelling interest to abridge WRTL's rights of free speech. The FEC appealed and the case returned to the Supreme Court.\n\nThe Supreme Court, in a 5-4 decision, crafted a major exception to the limitations on broadcast ads within 30 days of a primary or 60 days of a general election. The court ruled that unless an ad could not reasonably be interpreted as anything other than an ad urging the support or defeat of a candidate (in other words, unless an ad expressly urges support or defeat of a candidate), it was eligible for an \"as applied\" exception to the McCain-Feingold limits on issue ads close to an election.\n\nThe decision of the Court, authored by Chief Justice John G. Roberts, is notable not only for its holding, affirming the lower court, but for its strong language (repeatedly referring to BCRA's prohibition as the \"blackout\" period; rebuking calls for greater regulation of political speech by declaring \"Enough is enough\"; and concluding \"we give the benefit of the doubt to speech, not censorship\") and for demonstrating a skepticism of campaign finance regulation that was absent in \"McConnell\". In the opinion, Roberts argued that Congress's ability to limit speech about politicians and issues was limited to \"express advocacy or its functional equivalent.\" Roberts endorsed the lower court's view that it would be improper and would chill speech to subject speakers to an extensive investigation of motive and factor surrounding the ad and, instead, limited review to the content of the ad itself. Although, in theory, the opinion left BCRA's prohibition on \"electioneering communications\" standing and conformed with \"McConnell v. FEC\", for most practical purposes, it cut deeply into the law, reverting it to its pre-\"McConnell\" state in which only speech expressly advocating the election or defeat of a candidate could be constitutionally subject to limits and prohibitions on financing. Though announcing the Court's judgment, Roberts' opinion was joined only by Justice Samuel Alito. The rest of the majority consisted of Justices Antonin Scalia, Anthony Kennedy, and Clarence Thomas, who would have gone further and simply reversed \"McConnell\" outright.\n\nJustices John Paul Stevens, Stephen Breyer, David Souter, and Ruth Bader Ginsburg dissented.\n\nAlthough \"WRTL II,\" as the case is generally called, remains an important marker in First Amendment campaign finance jurisprudence, as a practical matter, it has been largely superseded by the Court's 2010 decision in \"Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission\".\n\n"}
{"id": "12157563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12157563", "title": "Flushing International High School", "text": "Flushing International High School\n\nFlushing International High School is a New York City public high school that opened in September 2004 in Flushing, New York. Students come from over 30 different countries and speak over twenty different native languages. Flushing International is a NYC School Empowerment School in District 25.\n\nFlushing International High School is a member of The Internationals Network for Public Schools, a non-profit organization that grew out of the work of a group of international high schools in New York City. The organization now supports 12 schools in New York and California. The first international high school, located on the campus of LaGuardia Community College, opened in 1985; two more followed in the 1990s. Since 2001, the network has opened and supported 9 additional high schools with the help of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. The network of schools annually serves 4,000 students immigrating from 90 countries. The network’s mission is to provide quality education to recently arrived immigrants by developing and networking small high schools based on the Internationals approach.\n\n"}
{"id": "46765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46765", "title": "François Quesnay", "text": "François Quesnay\n\nFrançois Quesnay (; 4 June 1694 – 16 December 1774) was a French economist and physician of the Physiocratic school. He is known for publishing the \"Tableau économique\" (Economic Table) in 1758, which provided the foundations of the ideas of the Physiocrats. This was perhaps the first work attempting to describe the workings of the economy in an analytical way, and as such can be viewed as one of the first important contributions to economic thought. His \"Le Despotisme de la Chine\", written in 1767, describes Chinese politics and society, and his own political support for constitutional Oriental despotism.\n\nQuesnay was born at Méré near Versailles, the son of an advocate and small landed proprietor. Apprenticed at the age of sixteen to a surgeon, he soon went to Paris, studied medicine and surgery there, and, having qualified as a master-surgeon, settled down to practice at Mantes. In 1737 he was appointed perpetual secretary of the academy of surgery founded by François Gigot de la Peyronie, and became surgeon in ordinary to King Louis XV. In 1744 he graduated as a doctor of medicine; he became physician in ordinary to the king, and afterwards his first consulting physician, and was installed in the Palace of Versailles. His apartments were on the \"entresol\", whence the Réunions de l'entresol received their name. Louis XV esteemed Quesnay highly, and used to call him his thinker. When he ennobled him he gave him for arms three flowers of the pansy (derived from \"pensée\", in French meaning \"thought\"), with the Latin motto \"Propter cogitationem mentis\".\n\nHe now devoted himself principally to economic studies, taking no part in the court intrigues which were perpetually going on around him. Around 1750 he became acquainted with Jacques C. M. V. de Gournay (1712–1759), who was also an earnest inquirer in the economic field; and round these two distinguished men was gradually formed the philosophic sect of the Économistes, or, as for distinction's sake they were afterwards called, the Physiocrates. The most remarkable men in this group of disciples were the elder Mirabeau (author of \"L'Ami des hommes\", 1756–60, and \"Philosophie rurale\", 1763), Nicolas Baudeau (\"Introduction a la philosophie économique\", 1771), G. F. Le Trosne (\"De l'ordre social\", 1777), André Morellet (best known by his controversy with Galiani on the freedom of the grain trade during the Flour War), Mercier Larivière, and du Pont de Nemours. Adam Smith, during his stay on the continent with the young Duke of Buccleuch in 1764–1766, spent some time in Paris, where he made the acquaintance of Quesnay and some of his followers; he paid a high tribute to their scientific services in his \"Wealth of Nations\".\n\nQuesnay married in 1718, and had a son and a daughter; his grandson by the former was a member of the first Legislative Assembly. He died on 16 December 1774, having lived long enough to see his great pupil, Anne Robert Jacques Turgot, Baron de Laune, in office as minister of finance.\n\nHis economic writings are collected in the 2nd vol. of the \"Principaux économistes\", published by Guillaumin, Paris, with preface and notes by Eugène Daire; also his \"Oeuvres économiques et philosophiques\" were collected with an introduction and note by August Oncken (Frankfort, 1888); a facsimile reprint of the \"Tableau économique\", from the original MS., was published by the British Economic Association (London, 1895). His other writings were the article \"Évidence\" in the \"Encyclopédie\", and \"Recherches sur l'évidence des vérites geometriques\", with a \"Projet de nouveaux éléments de géometrie\", 1773. Quesnay's Eloge was pronounced in the Academy of Sciences by Grandjean de Fouchy (see the Recueil of that Academy, 1774, p. 134). See also F.J. Marmontel, \"Mémoires\"; \"Mémoires de Mme. du Hausset\"; H. Higgs, \"The Physiocrats\" (London, 1897).\n\nIn 1758 he published the \"Tableau économique\" (Economic Table), which provided the foundations of the ideas of the Physiocrats. This was perhaps the first work to attempt to describe the workings of the economy in an analytical way, and as such can be viewed as one of the first important contributions to economic thought.\n\nThe publications in which Quesnay expounded his system were the following: two articles, on \"Fermiers\" (Farmers) and on \"Grains\", in the \"Encyclopédie\" of Diderot and Jean le Rond d'Alembert (1756, 1757); a discourse on the law of nature in the \"Physiocratie\" of Dupont de Nemours (1768); \"Maximes générales de gouvernement economique d'un royaume agricole\" (1758), and the simultaneously published \"Tableau économique avec son explication, ou extrait des économies royales de Sully\" (with the celebrated motto, \"Pauvres paysans, pauvre royaume; pauvre royaume, pauvre roi\"); \"Dialogue sur le commerce et les travaux des artisans\"; and other minor pieces.\n\nThe \"Tableau économique\", though on account of its dryness and abstract form it met with little general favor, may be considered the principal manifesto of the school. It was regarded by the followers of Quesnay as entitled to a place amongst the foremost products of human wisdom, and is named by the elder Mirabeau, in a passage quoted by Adam Smith, as one of the three great inventions which have contributed most to the stability of political societies, the other two being those of writing and of money. Its object was to exhibit by means of certain formulas the way in which the products of agriculture, which is the only source of wealth, would in a state of perfect liberty be distributed among the several classes of the community (namely, the productive classes of the proprietors and cultivators of land, and the unproductive class composed of manufacturers and merchants), and to represent by other formulas the modes of distribution which take place under systems of Governmental restraint and regulation, with the evil results arising to the whole society from different degrees of such violations of the natural order. It follows from Quesnay's theoretic views that the one thing deserving the solicitude of the practical economist and the statesman is the increase of the net product; and he infers also what Smith afterwards affirmed, on not quite the same ground, that the interest of the landowner is strictly and indissolubly connected with the general interest of the society. A small edition de luxe of this work, with other pieces, was printed in 1758 in the Palace of Versailles under the king's immediate supervision, some of the sheets, it is said, having been pulled by the royal hand. Already in 1767 the book had disappeared from circulation, and no copy of it is now procurable; but, the substance of it has been preserved in the \"Ami des hommes\" of Mirabeau, and the \"Physiocratie\" of Dupont de Nemours.\n\nQuesnay is known for his writings on Chinese politics and society. His book \"Le Despotisme de la Chine\", written in 1767, describes his views of the Chinese imperial system. He was supportive of the meritocratic concept of giving scholars political power, without the cumbersome aristocracy that characterized French politics, and the importance of agriculture to the welfare of a nation. The phrase \"laissez-faire\", coined by fellow Physiocrat Vincent de Gournay, is postulated to have come from Quesnay's writings on China. Gregory Blue writes that Quesnay \"praised China as a constitutional despotism and openly advocated the adoption of Chinese institutions, including a standardized system of taxation and universal education.\" Blue speculates that this may have influenced the 1793 establishment of the Permanent Settlement in Bengal by the British Empire. Quesnay's interests in Orientalism has also been a source of criticism. Carol Blum, in her book \"Strength in Numbers\" on 18th century France, labels Quesnay an \"apologist for Oriental despotism.\"\n\nBecause of his admiration of Confucianism, Quesnay's followers bestowed him with the title \"Confucius of Europe.\" Quesnay's infatuation for Chinese culture, as described by Jesuits, led him to persuade the son of Louis XV to mirror the \"plowing of sacred land\" by the Chinese emperor to symbolize the link between government and agriculture.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "206159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206159", "title": "French Union", "text": "French Union\n\nThe French Union () (1946–1958) was a political entity created by the French Fourth Republic to replace the old French colonial system, colloquially known as the \"French Empire\" (). It was the formal end of the \"indigenous\" () status of French subjects in colonial areas.\n\nThe French Union had five components:\n\nThe French Union was established by the French constitution of October 27, 1946 (Fourth Republic). Under it, it was said that there were no French colonies, but that metropolitan France, the overseas departments, and the overseas territories combined to create a single French Union, or just one France.\n\nThe goal of this union was \"assimilation of the overseas territories into a greater France, inhabited by French citizens, and blessed by French culture\". Whereas the British colonial system had local colonial governments which would eventually evolve into separate national governments; France wanted to create a single government under a single French state.\n\nThis French Union had a President, a High Council and an Assembly. The President was the President of the Republic. The Assembly of the Union had membership from the Council of the Republic, from the National Assembly and from regional assemblies of the overseas territories and departments but ultimately had no power. The High Council ultimately met only three times, first in 1951. The Assembly was the only actually functioning institution that could manage legislation within the overseas territories.\n\nIn reality, the colonial areas had representation but all power remained in the French Parliament and thus was centralized. The colonies had local assemblies but these had only limited local power. Instead, various natives of the overseas territories in metropolitan France grew into a group of elites, known as .\n\nOn January 31, 1956, hoping to having peace in Algiers, the system changed, abandoning assimilation in favor of autonomy, allowing territories to develop their own local government and to eventually gain their independence. This would not succeed however and in 1958 the French Union was replaced by the French Community by 's Fifth Republic wherein France was now a federation of states with their own self-government.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19770091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19770091", "title": "History of the New Democratic Party", "text": "History of the New Democratic Party\n\nThis article covers the history of the New Democratic Party of Canada.\n\nIn 1956, after the birth of the Canadian Labour Congress (CLC) by a merger of two previous labour congresses, negotiations began between the CLC and the Co-operative Commonwealth Federation (CCF) to bring about an alliance between organized labour and the political left in Canada. In 1958 a joint CCF-CLC committee, the National Committee for the New Party (NCNP), was formed to create a \"new\" social democratic political party, with ten members from each group. The NCNP spent the next three years laying down the foundations of the New Party. During this process, a large number of New Party Clubs were established to allow like-minded Canadians to join in its founding, and six representatives from New Party Clubs were added to the National Committee. In 1961, at the end of a five-day-long Founding Convention which established its principles, policies and structures, the New Democratic Party was born and Tommy Douglas, the long-time CCF Premier of Saskatchewan, was elected its first leader. In 1960, before the NDP was founded, one candidate, Walter Pitman, won a by-election under the New Party banner.\n\nThe influence of organized labour on the party is still reflected in the party's conventions as affiliated unions send delegates on a formula based on their number of members. Since approximately one-quarter of the convention delegates have recently been from affiliated labour groups, after the party changed to an Every Member Vote method of electing leaders in leadership races, labour delegate votes are scaled to 25% of the total number of ballots cast for leader.\n\nUnder the leadership of David Lewis (1971–1975), the NDP supported the minority government formed by Pierre Trudeau's Liberals from 1972 to 1974, although the two parties never entered into a coalition. Together they succeeded in passing several socially progressive initiatives into law such as pension indexing and the creation of the crown corporation Petro-Canada.\n\nIn 1974, the NDP worked with the Progressive Conservatives to pass a motion of non-confidence, forcing an election. However, it backfired as Trudeau's Liberals regained a majority government, mostly at the expense of the NDP, which lost half its seats. Lewis lost his own riding and resigned as leader.\n\nUnder the leadership of Ed Broadbent (1975–1989), the NDP played a critical role during Joe Clark's minority government of 1979-1980, moving the non-confidence motion on John Crosbie's budget that brought down the Progressive Conservative (PC) government, and forced the election that brought Trudeau's Liberal Party back to power.\n\nIn the 1984 election, which saw the Conservatives win the most seats in Canadian history, the NDP won 30 seats, only one behind the 31 it won in 1972. The governing Liberals were decimated, falling to 40 seats in what was at the time the worst defeat of a sitting government at the federal level. The NDP fared far better than expected, considering the Tories won the biggest majority government in Canadian history. Third parties historically do not do well in landslide election contests. More importantly, they were only 10 seats behind the Liberals—the closest the party and its predecessors had ever gotten to the two major parties up to that point. It was also the best performance for a third party in almost 60 years. This led to some talk that Canada was headed for a UK-style Tory-Labour division, with the NDP pushing the Liberals into oblivion. Afterwards, Broadbent himself consistently out-polled Liberal leader John Turner and even Prime Minister Brian Mulroney.\n\nOn July 20, 1987, the NDP swept three by-elections in Newfoundland, Ontario, and the Yukon, picking up two formerly Conservative seats and holding one NDP seat. These by-elections brought Audrey McLaughlin to the House of Commons as the MP for Yukon.\n\nThe NDP elected a record 43 Members of Parliament (MPs) in the election of 1988. The Liberals, however, had reaped most of the benefits of opposing free trade to emerge as the dominant alternative to the ruling government. The Conservatives' barrage of attacks on the Liberals, as well as vote-splitting between the NDP and Liberals, helped them win a second consecutive majority. In 1989, Broadbent stepped down after 14 years as federal leader of the NDP.\n\nAt the party's leadership convention, former B.C. Premier Dave Barrett and Audrey McLaughlin were the main contenders for the leadership. During the campaign, Barrett argued that the party should be concerned with western alienation, rather than focusing its attention on Quebec. The Quebec wing of the NDP strongly opposed Barrett's candidacy, with Phil Edmonston, the party's main spokesman in Quebec, threatening to resign from the party if Barrett won. Barrett's campaign was also hurt when his back-room negotiations with leadership rival Simon De Jong were inadvertently recorded by the latter's CBC microphone. In these discussions, De Jong apparently agreed to support Barrett in exchange for being named House Leader, but he changed his mind at the last minute and supported McLaughlin instead, announcing his endorsement of her before the vote. In the course of his discussion with Barrett, De Jong explained \"It's a head and heart thing,\" i.e., that his head told him to go with Dave while his heart told him to go with Audrey. McLaughlin won the leadership on the fourth ballot, becoming the first woman in Canada to lead a political party.\n\nAlthough enjoying strong support among organized labour and rural voters in the Prairies, McLaughlin tried to expand their support into Quebec without much success. In 1989, the Quebec New Democratic Party adopted a sovereigntist platform and severed its ties with the federal NDP. Under McLaughlin, the party did manage to win an election in Quebec for the first time when Edmonston won a 1990 by-election. The party had briefly picked up its first Quebec MP in 1986, when Robert Toupin crossed the floor from the Tories after briefly sitting as an independent. However, he left the party in October 1987 after claiming Communists had infiltrated the party.\n\nThe NDP chose to align itself with the Conservatives and Liberals on the \"yes\" side of the Charlottetown Accord referendum in 1992. Barrett reluctantly endorsed it to comply with party policy (he opposed the Meech Lake Accord in 1987), but later referred to the NDP's support for the Accord as a mistake. Edmonston, a Quebec nationalist, frequently clashed with his own party over this position on Canadian federalism, and did not run for re-election.\n\nThe NDP was routed in the 1993 election. It won only nine seats, three seats short of official party status in the House of Commons. Several factors contributed to this dramatic collapse just one election after winning a record number of seats and after being first in opinion polling at one point during the previous Parliament. One was the massive unpopularity of NDP provincial governments under Bob Rae in Ontario and Mike Harcourt in British Columbia. Not coincidentally, the NDP was routed in these provinces; it lost all 10 of its Ontario MPs and 17 of its 19 British Columbia MPs—more than half of its caucus. The Ontario NDP would be soundly defeated in 1995, while the British Columbia NDP recovered and won reelection in 1996.\n\nThe NDP was also indirectly hampered by the collapse of the Progressive Conservatives, who were cut down to only two seats. Exit polls showed that 17% to 27% of NDP supporters from 1988 voted Liberal in 1993. It was obvious by the beginning of October that Liberal leader Jean Chrétien would be the next prime minister. However, the memory of 1988's vote splitting combined with the tremendous antipathy toward the PCs caused NDP supporters to vote Liberal to ensure the Conservatives would be defeated. Many voters in the NDP's traditional Western heartland also switched to the right-wing Reform Party of Canada. Despite sharp ideological differences, Reform's populism struck a chord with many western NDP supporters. In Ontario, fear of the Reform Party and anger at Rae helped cause NDP supporters to vote Liberal. Barrett's warnings about Western alienation proved to be prophetic, as the rise of the Reform Party replaced the NDP as the protest voice west of Ontario.\n\nThe party recovered somewhat under new leader Alexa McDonough, electing 21 New Democrats in the 1997 election. The NDP made a breakthrough in Atlantic Canada, unseating Liberal ministers David Dingwall and Doug Young. The party was able to harness the discontent of Maritime voters, who were upset over cuts to employment insurance and other programs.\n\nAfterwards, McDonough was widely perceived as trying to move the party toward the centre of the political spectrum, in the Third Way mode of Tony Blair. Union leaders were lukewarm in their support, often threatening to break away from the NDP, while Canadian Auto Workers head Buzz Hargrove called for her resignation. MPs Rick Laliberté and Angela Vautour crossed the floor to other parties during this term, reducing the NDP caucus to 19 seats.\n\nIn the November 2000 election, the NDP campaigned on the issue of Medicare but lost significant support. The governing Liberals ran an effective campaign on their economic record and managed to recapture some of the Atlantic ridings lost to the NDP in the 1997 election. The initial high electoral prospects of the Canadian Alliance under new leader Stockwell Day also hurt the NDP as many supporters strategically voted Liberal to keep the Alliance from winning. The NDP finished with 13 MPs — just barely over the threshold for official party status.\n\nThe party embarked on a renewal process starting in 2000. A general convention in Winnipeg in November 2001 made significant alterations to party structures, and reaffirmed its commitment to the left. In the May 2002 by-elections, Brian Masse won the riding of Windsor West in Windsor, Ontario, previously held for decades by a Liberal, former Deputy Prime Minister Herb Gray.\n\nMcDonough announced her resignation as party leader for family reasons in June 2002, and was succeeded by Jack Layton. A Toronto city councillor and recent President of the Federation of Canadian Municipalities, Layton was elected at the party's leadership election in Toronto on January 5, 2003, defeating his nearest rival, longtime Winnipeg-area MP Bill Blaikie, on the first ballot with 53.5% of the vote.\n\nLayton had run unsuccessfully for the Commons three times in Toronto-area ridings. In contrast to traditional but diminishing Canadian practice, where an MP for a safe seat stands down to allow a newly elected leader a chance to enter Parliament, Layton did not contest a seat in Parliament until the 2004 election. In the interim, he appointed Blaikie as deputy leader and made him parliamentary leader of the NDP.\n\nThe 2004 election produced mixed results for the NDP. It increased its total vote by more than a million votes; however, despite Layton's optimistic predictions of reaching 40 seats, the NDP only gained five seats in the election, for a total of 19. The party was disappointed to see its two Saskatchewan incumbents defeated by the Conservatives, both in close races, perhaps due to the unpopularity of the NDP provincial government. Those losses caused the federal NDP to be shut out in Saskatchewan for the first time since the 1965 election, despite obtaining 23% of the vote in the province.\n\nExit polls indicated that many NDP supporters voted Liberal to keep the new Conservative Party from winning. The Liberals had recruited several prominent NDP members, most notably former British Columbia premier Ujjal Dosanjh, to run as Liberals as part of a drive to convince NDP voters that a reunited Conservative Party could sneak up the middle in the event of a split in the centre-left vote.\n\nThe Liberals were re-elected, though this time as a minority government. Combined, the Liberals and NDP had 154 seats—one short of the total needed for the balance of power. As has been the case with Liberal minority governments in the past, the NDP were in a position to make gains on the party's priorities, such as fighting health care privatization, fulfilling Canada's obligation to the Kyoto Protocol, and electoral reform.\n\nThe party used Prime Minister Paul Martin's politically precarious position caused by the sponsorship scandal to force investment in multiple federal programs, agreeing not to help topple the government provided that some major concessions in the federal budget were ceded to. The governing Liberals agreed to support the changes in exchange for NDP support on confidence votes. On May 19, 2005, by Speaker Peter Milliken's tie-breaking vote, the House of Commons voted for second reading on major NDP amendments to the federal budget, preempting about $4.5 billion in corporate tax cuts and funding social, educational and environmental programs instead. Both NDP supporters and Conservative opponents of the measures branded it Canada's first \"NDP budget\". In late June, the amendments passed final reading and many political pundits concluded that the NDP had gained credibility and clout on the national scene.\n\nOn November 9, 2005, after the findings of the Gomery Inquiry were released, Layton notified the Liberal government that continued NDP support would require a ban on private health care. When the Liberals refused, Layton announced that he would introduce a motion on November 24 that would ask Martin to call a federal election in February to allow for several pieces of legislation to be passed. The Liberals turned down this offer. On November 28, 2005, Conservative leader Stephen Harper's motion of no confidence was seconded by Layton and it was passed by all three opposition parties, forcing an election. Columnist Andrew Coyne has suggested that the NDP was unlikely to receive much credit for continuing to further prop up the Liberals, so they ended their support for the Martin government.\n\nDuring the election, the NDP focused their attacks on the Liberal party, in order to counter Liberal appeals for strategic voting. A key point in the campaign was when Judy Wasylycia-Leis had asked the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) to launch a criminal investigation into the leaking of the income trust announcement. The criminal probe seriously damaged the Liberal campaign and prevented them from making their key policy announcements, as well as bringing Liberal corruption back into the spotlight. After the election, the RCMP announced the conclusion of the income trust investigation and laid a charge of 'Breach of Trust' against Serge Nadeau, an official in the Department of Finance, while Liberal Finance Minister Ralph Goodale was cleared of wrongdoing.\n\nThe NDP campaign strategy put them at odds with Canadian Auto Workers, which had supported an NDP-backed Liberal minority government and which was only backing NDP candidates that had a chance of winning. After the campaign, the Ontario NDP expelled CAW leader Buzz Hargrove from the party (which has a common membership both federally and provincially) for his support of the Liberals.\n\nOn January 23, the NDP won 29 seats, a significant increase of 10 seats from the 19 won in 2004. It was the fourth-best performance in party history, approaching the level of popular support enjoyed in the 1980s. The NDP kept all of the 18 seats it held at the dissolution of Parliament (Paul Dewar retained the riding of Ottawa Centre vacated by Broadbent). Bev Desjarlais, an NDP MP since 1997, unsuccessfully ran as an independent in her Churchill riding after losing the NDP nomination. While the party gained no seats in Atlantic Canada, Quebec, or the Prairie Provinces, it gained five seats in British Columbia, five more in Ontario and the Western Arctic riding of the Northwest Territories.\n\nThe Conservative Party won a minority government in the 2006 election, and initially the NDP was the only party that would not be able to pass legislation with the Conservatives. However, following a series of floor crossings, the NDP also came to hold the balance of power.\n\nThere have been four confidence votes in the current parliament, and the NDP is the only party to have voted against the Conservatives on all of them. These were votes on the United States-Canada softwood lumber dispute, extending the mission to Afghanistan, the 2006 Canadian federal budget and 2007 federal budget. On other issues the NDP has worked with the Conservatives. After forcing the Conservatives to agree to certain revisions, the NDP helped pass the Accountability Act. After the NDP fiercely criticized the initial Conservative attempt at a Clean Air Act, the Conservatives agreed to work with the NDP and other parties to revise the legislation. The NDP also supported the government in introducing regulations on income trusts, fearing that trends toward mass trust conversions by large corporations to avoid Canadian income taxes would cause the loss of billions of dollars in budget revenue to support health care, pensions and other federal programs. At the same time, the NDP was also weary of the threat of investor losses from income trusts’ exaggerated performance expectations.\n\nSince that election, the NDP caucus rose to 30 members following the victory of NDP candidate Thomas Mulcair in a by-election in Outremont. This marked the second time ever (and first time in seventeen years) that the NDP won a riding in Quebec. The party won 37 seats in the 2008 federal election, the second most seats won, since the 1988 federal election record of 43.\n\nIn the May 2011 election, the Jack Layton-led NDP suddenly experienced a surge in the polls, catapulting them from third-party status to the role of Official Opposition for the first time in history. The historic results began as a surge in poll numbers in Quebec for the NDP, putting the party in first place in that province and in second place nationally (just a few points behind the Tories). This NDP surge (dubbed the \"Orange Crush\" by the media, after the soft drink) was mirrored by a collapse in support for the Bloc Québécois in Quebec, and a collapse of support for the Liberals nationally as the progressive non-Conservative vote coalesced around the NDP. \nThis resulted in the worst electoral result ever received by the federal Liberal party (being reduced to just 34 seats), the worst results for the Bloc Québécois (being reduced to 4 seats), and a shift and realignment of the Canadian political landscape as the NDP (previously a third party) was returned to Parliament with an unprecedented 103 seats (59 of which came from Quebec), allowing them replace the Liberal Party as Official Opposition and become the main centre-left non-Conservative party.\n\nJust a few months later, in August 2011, Jack Layton died. The subsequent leadership contest elected Thomas Mulcair (from the Quebec riding of Outremont) as the new and current leader of the New Democratic Party. After the election of Thomas Mulcair, multiple polls put the NDP in first place nationally (and in Quebec), ahead of the governing Conservatives. This marked the first time that the NDP was not only in first place statistically, but by such a significant margin. In Quebec, the NDP climbed to over 50% support. As the governing Conservatives became less and less popular, the NDP surged and held on to first place (while the Liberals' support continued to wane). The NDP is in first place nationally, and provincially in Quebec, Ontario, British Columbia, Manitoba, Saskatchewan, Yukon and, as of recently Newfoundland and Labrador. At the start of the 2015 campaign, the NDP led in the polls, but their support declined as the campaign went on. In the end, they were reduced to 44 seats, with the majority of their losses being to the Liberals in Quebec, Ontario, and Atlantic Canada.\n"}
{"id": "1307356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1307356", "title": "Hukbalahap", "text": "Hukbalahap\n\nThe Hukbalahap (, \"The Nation's Army Against the Japanese Soldiers\"), or \"Hukbong Laban sa Hapon\" (Anti-Japanese Army), was a communist guerrilla movement formed by the peasant farmers of Central Luzon. They are popularly known as \"Huks\". They were originally formed to fight the Japanese, but extended their fight into a rebellion against the Philippine Government, known as the Hukbalahap Rebellion, in 1946. It was put down through a series of reforms and military victories by Filipino President Ramon Magsaysay.\n\nAs originally constituted in 1942, the Hukbalahap was to be part of a broad united front resistance to the Japanese occupation of the Philippines. This original intent is reflected in its name: \"Hukbong Bayan Laban sa mga Hapon\", which means \"People's Army Against the Japanese.\"\n\nBy 1950, the Communist Party of the Philippines (PKP) had resolved to reconstitute the organization as the armed wing of a revolutionary party, prompting a change in the official name to \"Hukbong Mapagpalaya ng Bayan,\" (HMB) or \"Peoples' Liberation Army,\" likely in emulation of the Chinese People's Liberation Army.\n\nNotwithstanding this name change, the HMB continued to be popularly known as the \"Hukbalahap,\" and the English-speaking press continued to refer to it and its members, interchangeably, as \"The Huks\" during the whole period between 1945 and 1952.\n\nThe Hukbalahap movement has deep roots in the Spanish \"encomienda\", a system of grants to reward soldiers who had conquered New Spain, established in 1570. This developed into a system of exploitation. In the 19th century, Filipino landlordism, under the Spanish colonization, arose and, with it, further abuses. After the opening of ports in Manila, the Luzon economy was transformed to meet the demands for exports of rice, sugar, and tobacco. Landowners increased demands on farmers, who rented parcels of land. These demands included increased rents, demands for proceeds from the sale of crops, and predatory lending agreements to fund farm improvements. Only after the coming of the Americans were reforms initiated to lessen tensions between tenants and landlords. The reforms, however, did not solve the problems and, with growing political consciousness produced by education, peasants began to unite under educated but poor leaders. The most potent of these organizations was the Hukbalahap, which began as a resistance organization against the Japanese but ended as an anti-government resistance movement.\n\nThe idea of a guerrilla organization was conceived as early as October 1941, months before the Philippines' entry to World War II. As early as 1941, Juan Feleo, a well-known peasant leader and member of the Partido Komunista ng Pilipinas, had begun to mobilize peasants in his home province of Nueva Ecija for the conflict. Pedro Abad Santos, founding member of the Socialist Party of the Philippines, had also ordered Luis Taruc to mobilize forces in Pampanga.\n\nAt the outbreak of the Second World War in the Philippines and the capture of Manila, top-ranking leaders of the PKP were captured by the Japanese military. Crisanto Evangelista, its founder, was among those who were captured and was executed in 1942. Abad Santos was similarly captured, but was released in 1943. Dr. Vicente Lava took the reins of the PKP and tried to re-organize the party.\n\nIn February 1942 a \"struggle conference\" was held in Cabiao, Nueva Ecija to discuss organization, strategy, and tactics. Members of the PKP, the Popular Front Party, the League for the Defense of Democracy, KPMP, AMT, and KAP convened to create a structure for unified resistance against the Japanese.\n\nA united front tactic was agreed upon as a means of attracting the broadest sections of population, not necessarily communists. A three-front resistance was agreed upon: military, political, and economic. The military aim was to harass the Japanese continuously and keep it off-balance so as to prevent it from focusing on activities aimed at winning the goodwill of the people. The political aim was to discredit the Japanese-sponsored republic and build the concept of a functioning democracy as a grass roots level, while the economic objective was to prevent the enemy's looting. The result was the creation of the Central Luzon Bureau, an organization meant to lead resistance against the Japanese. Key positions were filled out as follows:\n\nAt the advent of this conference, several armed groups were immediately organized and began operating in Central Luzon. A significant event was on March 13, 1942, when a squadron headed by Felipa Culala (alias Dayang-Dayang) encountered and defeated Japanese forces in Mandili, Candaba, Pampanga. News of Culala's successful raid raised morale for resistance fighters.\n\nOn March 29, 1942, peasant leaders met in a forest clearing located in Sitio Bawit, Barrio San Julian, at the junction of Tarlac, Pampanga, and Nueva Ecija to form a united organization. \"Hukbong Bayan Laban sa mga Hapon\" was chosen as the name of the organization. After the meeting, a military committee was formed with Taruc (\"Supremo\"), Castro Alejandrino (Vice Commander), Bernardo Poblete (\"Tandang Banal\"), and Culala as members. The Hukbalahap high command was also joined by the military commissariat; a party apparatus that provided guidance to the Huks.\n\nThe CLB was regarded as the \"wartime version of the PKP\". While PKP officials did assume important positions in the Huk structure, the movement encompassed more that simply members of the PKP and its affiliated organizations.\n\nRobert Lapham reports either Luis Taruc or Casto Alejandrino met with Col. Thorpe at his Camp Sanchez in the spring of 1942, and the conferees agreed to cooperate, share equipment and supplies, with the Americans providing trainers. However, though the Huks fought the Japanese, they also \"tried to thwart United States Army Forces in the Far East guerrillas\", \"therefore, they were considered disloyal and were not accorded U.S. recognition or benefits at the end of the war.\"\n\nAfter its inception, the group grew quickly and by late summer 1943 claimed to have 15,000 to 20,000 active men and women military fighters and 50,000 more in reserve. These fighters' weaponry was obtained primarily by stealing it from battlefields and downed planes left behind by the Japanese, Filipinos and Americans. They fought Japanese troops, worked to subvert the Japanese tax-collection service, intercepted food and supplies to the Japanese troops, and created a training school where they taught political theory and military tactics based on Marxist ideas. In areas that the group controlled, they set up local governments (\"Sandatahang Tanod ng Bayan\", Barrio United Defense Corps) and instituted land reforms, dividing up the largest estates equally among the peasants and often killing the landlords. In some cases, however, landlords were welcomed as participants in Huk resistance, swayed by anti-Japanese sympathies. PKP organizers quickly went to work to set up BUDCs in Huk controlled barrios, which contributed to its success as a resistance army, although in reality there was an overlap between independently formed barrio governments, \"neighborhood committees\" set up by the Japanese, and BUDCs.\n\nThe Huk movement was notable for its inclusion of women peasants, who advocated for inclusion in the movement in resistance to word of Japanese war atrocities against women, including rape and mutilation. Many of these women fought, but the majority of the resistance remained in villages, collecting supplies and intelligence. Women in the forest camps were forbidden from entering combat, but often trained in first aid, communication/propaganda, and recruitment tactics.\n\nThe Huks enjoyed early successes with their continuous attacks, aimed at raising morale through quick successes as well as to acquire weapons for the severely unarmed group. The Japanese conducted two counterattacks against the Huks, on September 6 and December 5, 1942. Both attacks did nothing to dampen the frequency of Huk raids, and only served to intensify Huk operations. On March 5, 1943, the Japanese struck the Huk headquarters in Cabiao, Nueva Ecija in a surprise attack. A large number of CPP cadres and Huk soldiers were captured during the raid. By the end of the war, the Huks had 1,200 engagements, and inflicted some 25,000 enemy casualties. The Huks' strength consisted of 20,000 fully armed regulars and some 50,000 reservists.\n\nThe Hukhbalahap's methods were often portrayed by other guerrilla leaders as terrorist; for example, Ray C. Hunt, an American who led his own band of 3000 guerrillas, said of the Hukbalahap that\n\nMy experiences with the Huks were always unpleasant. Those I knew were much better assassins than soldiers. Tightly disciplined and led by fanatics, they murdered some Filipino landlords and drove others off to the comparative safety of Manila. They were not above plundering and torturing ordinary Filipinos, and they were treacherous enemies of all other guerrillas (on Luzon).\n\nHowever, the Hukbalahap claimed that it extended its guerrilla warfare campaign for over a decade merely in search of recognition as World War II freedom fighters and former American and Filipino allies who deserved a share of war reparations.\n\nThe end of the war saw the return of American forces in the Philippines. The Americans, with the help of USAFFE guerillas and former PC members, forcibly disarmed Huk squadrons while charging other guerrillas of treason, sedition, and subversive activity, leading to the arrests of Luis Taruc and Casto Alejandrino in 1945, as well as incidents such as the massacre of 109 Huk guerrillas in Malolos, Bulacan.\n\nOn September 1945, President Sergio Osmeña released Taruc, Alejandrino, and other Huk leaders from prison. The PKP, through Huk leaders, then formally disbanded the movement and formed the Hukbalahap Veterans' League in an effort to get the Hukbalahap recognized as a legitimate guerrilla movement. Alejandrino was its nominal chairman.\n\nIn 1946, peasants in Central Luzon backed members of the Democratic Alliance in that year's election, with six candidates eventually winning seats in the Senate. Among these candidates was Luis Taruc. However, they were blocked from sitting in Congress by the government, which only exacerbated negative sentiment among the peasants in Central Luzon. The new Roxas administration attempted a pacification program, with help from Taruc, Alejandrino, Juan Feleo, and other representatives. They would be accompanied by MP guards and government officials to try and pacify peasant groups, however this did not result in any sort of success. Within days of the so-called \"truce\", violence once again erupted in Central Luzon. Taruc and others claimed that civilian guards and government officials were \"sabotaging the peace process\".\n\nOn August 24, 1946, Feleo was stopped by a large band of \"armed men in fatigue uniforms\" in Gapan, Nueva Ecija. He had planned present the peasant's concerns to the Secretary of the Interior Jose Zulueta, before he was taken and killed. Thousands of Huk veterans and PKM members were sure that Feleo was murdered by landlords, or possibly the Roxas administration itself. The incident led to Taruc joining the peasants and re-igniting the insurrection. The Roxas administration then outlawed the Hukbalahap on March 6, 1948.\n\nIn 1949, Hukbalahap members ambushed and murdered Aurora Quezon, Chairman of the Philippine Red Cross and widow of the Philippines' second president, Manuel L. Quezon, as she was en route to her hometown for the dedication of the Quezon Memorial Hospital. Several others were also killed, including her eldest daughter and son-in-law. This attack brought worldwide condemnation of the Hukbalahaps, who claimed that the attack was done by \"renegade\" members. The continuing condemnation and new post-war causes of the movement prompted the Huk leaders to adopt a new name, the 'Hukbong Mapagpalaya ng Bayan' or the 'People's Liberation Army' in 1950.\n\nPublic sympathies for the movement had been waning due to their postwar attacks. The Huks carried out a campaign of raids, holdups, robbery, ambushes, murder, rape, massacre of small villages, kidnapping and intimidation. The Huks confiscated funds and property to sustain their movement and relied on small village organizers for political and material support. The Huk movement was mainly spread in the central provinces of Nueva Ecija, Pampanga, Tarlac, Bulacan, and in Nueva Vizcaya, Pangasinan, Laguna, Bataan and Quezon.\n\nAn important movement in the campaign against the Huks was the deployment of hunter-killer counter guerrilla special units. The \"Nenita\" unit (1946–1949) was the first of such special forces whose main mission was to eliminate the Huks. The Nenita Force was commanded by Major Napoleon Valeriano. The Nenita terror tactics which were not only committed against dissidents but also towards law-abiding people sometimes helped the Huks gain supporters as a consequence.\n\nIn July 1950, Major Valeriano assumed command of the elite 7th Battalion Combat Team (BCT) in Bulacan. The 7th BCT would develop a reputation toward employing a more comprehensive, more unconventional counterinsurgency strategy and reduced the random brutality against the civilian population.\n\nIn June 1950, American alarm over the Huk rebellion during the Cold War prompted President Truman to approve special military assistance that included military advice, sale at cost of military equipment to the Philippines and financial aid under the Joint United States Military Advisory Group (JUSMAG). On 26 Aug. 1950, in an \"anniversary celebration\" of the Cry of Pugad Lawin, the Huks temporarily seized Santa Cruz, Laguna and Camp Makabulos, Tarlac, confiscating money, food, weapons, ammunition, clothing, medicine, and office supplies. In September 1950, former USAFFE guerrilla, Ramon Magsaysay was appointed as Minister of National Defense on American advice. With the Huk Rebellion growing in strength and the security situation in the Philippines becoming seriously threatened, Magsaysay urged President Elpidio Quirino to suspend the writ of \"habeas corpus\" for the duration of the Huk campaign. On 18 Oct. 1950, Magsaysay captured the Secretariat, including the general secretary Jose Lava, following the earlier capture of the Politburo in Manila. \nAmerican assistance allowed Magsaysay to create more BCTs, bringing the total to twenty-six. By 1951, army strength had increased by 60 percent over the previous year with 1,047-man BCTs. Major military offensive campaigns against the Huks were carried out by the 7th, 16th, 17th, and 22nd BCTs.\n\nAnother major effort against the Huks was Operation \"Knockout\" of the Panay Task Force (composed of the 15th BCT, some elements of the 9th BCT and the Philippine Constabulary commands of Iloilo, Capiz and Antique) under the command of Colonel Alfredo M. Santos. The Operation conducted a surprise attack on Guillermo Capadocia, commander of the Huk Regional Command in the Visayas, erstwhile Secretary General and one of the founders of the PKP. Santos' masterstroke was the enlistment of Pedro Valentin, a local mountain leader who knew the people and the terrain like the back of his hand. Capadocia died on Panay, of battle wounds, on September 20, 1952.\n\nIn 1954, Lt. Col. Laureño Maraña, the former head of Force X of the 16th PC Company, assumed command of the 7th BCT, which had become one of the most mobile striking forces of the Philippine ground forces against the Huks, from Valeriano who was now a colonel. Force X employed psychological warfare through combat intelligence and infiltration that relied on secrecy in planning, training, and execution of attack. The lessons learned from Force X and Nenita were combined in the 7th BCT.\n\nWith the all out anti-dissidence campaigns against the Huks, they numbered less than 2,000 by 1954 and without the protection and support of local supporters, active Huk resistance no longer presented a serious threat to Philippine security. From February to mid-September 1954, the largest anti-Huk operation, \"Operation Thunder-Lightning\" was conducted and resulted in the surrender of Luis Taruc on May 17. Further cleanup operations of guerillas remaining lasted throughout 1955, diminishing its number to less than 1,000 by year's end.\n\nThe Hukbalahap was regarded by the PKP as its \"citizen's army\" against the Japanese. It was headed by the Central Luzon Bureau, with Vicente Lava as its secretary, and a secretariat, ostensibly a party apparatus meant to keep the Huks in line with PKP ideology. There were five committees which composed the Huk structure:\n\nThe Huk military structured was modeled after the Chinese Red Army. It was composed of squads and platoons, consisting of 100 officers and men, which formed a squadron. Two squadrons formed one battalion, and two battalions formed a regiment. These numbers were not always followed though: For example, Squadron 8, based in Talavera, Nueva Ecija, had twelve squads, each with a dozen men.\n\nThe initial force of 500 armed Huks which was organized into five squadrons had increased to a fully armed guerrilla force of 20,000 men. By 1944, Huk strength numbers at 76 squadrons. After the Cabiao raid by the Japanese, the PKP adopted a \"retreat for defense\" policy, which broke up squads to smaller groups of three to five men.\n\nIn areas controlled by Huk guerrillas, the Huks organized an ad-hoc police force to keep the peace and stop looters and thieves. Huks also formed \"Sandatahang Tanod ng Bayan\" (Barrio United Defense Corps), which acted as neighborhood governments in support of the Huk forces in the field. These BUDC's were composed of KPMP and AMT members, which organized popular support for Huks, shielded harvest from the Japanese, and attacked Filipino collaborators; in effect, setting up protected zones and safe havens for the Huks. The Hukbalahap also set-up a government, composed of a President, Vice-President, Secretary, Treasurer, and five policemen. The barrio government also had three departments, with a person-in-charge leading it. One department collected intelligence information about the military, another handled communication between different barrios and Huk members, and the third arranged for supplies. The Hukbalahap government also performed civil tasks, such as officiating in weddings, baptisms, funerals, and issued marriage licenses and birth certificates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "154101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=154101", "title": "I'd Like to Teach the World to Sing (In Perfect Harmony)", "text": "I'd Like to Teach the World to Sing (In Perfect Harmony)\n\n\"I'd Like to Teach the World to Sing (In Perfect Harmony)\" is a pop song that originated as the jingle \"Buy the World a Coke\" in the groundbreaking 1971 \"Hilltop\" television commercial for Coca-Cola. \"Buy the World a Coke\" was produced by Billy Davis and portrayed a positive message of hope and love, featuring a multicultural collection of teenagers on top of a hill appearing to sing the song.\n\nThe popularity of the jingle led to it being re-recorded by The New Seekers and by The Hillside Singers as a full-length song, dropping references to Coca-Cola. The song became a hit record in the US and the UK.\n\nThe idea originally came to Bill Backer, an advertising executive working for McCann Erickson, the agency responsible for Coca-Cola. Backer, Roger Cook and Billy Davis were delayed at Shannon Airport in Ireland. After a forced layover with many hot tempers, they noticed their fellow travelers the next morning were talking and joking while drinking Coca-Cola. Backer wrote the line \"I'd like to buy the world a Coke\" on a napkin and shared it with British hit songwriters Cook and Roger Greenaway. \n\nThe melody was derived from a previous jingle by Cook and Greenaway, originally called \"True Love and Apple Pie\" that was recorded in 1971 by Susan Shirley.\n\nThe commercial ended with the statement:\n\nThe song became so popular that it was recorded by The New Seekers and by The Hillside Singers as a full-length song—without the mention of Coke—and both versions became huge hits. A version of the song was rerecorded by Susan Shirley and released in 1971. Cook, Greenaway, Backer, and Billy Davis reworked the song and recorded it as a Coca-Cola radio commercial.\n\n\"Buy the World a Coke\" contains the line \"I'd like to buy the world a Coke\" and\nrepeats \"It's the real thing\", which was Coca-Cola's marketing slogan at the time. Coca\nCola introduced that slogan in October 1969.\n\nSeveral versions of the ad have been made.\n\n\n\nIn 2007, \"Campaign\" magazine called it \"one of the best-loved and most influential ads in TV history\". It served as a milestone—the first instance of the recording industry's involvement with advertising.\n\nMarketing analysts have noted Coca-Cola's strategy of marrying the idea of happiness and universal love of the product illustrated by the song.\n\nThe commercial has continued receiving accolades in more recent times. In 2000, Channel 4 and \"The Sunday Times\" ranked the song 16th in the 100 Greatest TV Ads, while ITV ranked the advertisement 10th in their list of the greatest advertisements of all time by in 2005.\n\nAfter the TV commercial aired, radio stations began to get calls from people who liked it. Billy Davis' friends in radio suggested he record the song, but not as an advertising jingle. It became so popular that the song was rewritten without brand name references and expanded to three verses. Davis recruited a group of studio singers to take it on because The New Seekers did not have time to record it. The studio group named themselves The Hillside Singers to identify with the ad, and within two weeks the song was on the national charts. The Hillside Singers' version reached #13 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and #5 on Billboard's Easy Listening chart. \"Billboard\" ranked this version as the No. 97 song for 1972.\n\nThe New Seekers later recorded the song and sold 96,000 copies of their record in one day, eventually selling 12 million total. \"I'd Like to Teach the World to Sing (In Perfect Harmony)\" climbed to UK #1 and US #7 in 1971 and 1972. The song became a gold record in the U.S., and has also sold over a million copies in the UK. The Coca-Cola Company waived royalties to the song and instead donated $80,000 in payments to UNICEF. \"Billboard\" ranked this version as the No. 93 song for 1972.\n\n\nThe commercial was used as the final scene in the \"Mad Men\" series finale, \"Person to Person\" (airdate May 17, 2015), which was set in November 1970, at an oceanside spiritual retreat in California. \n\nThe song was featured briefly in the 2001 movie \"Freddy Got Fingered\" and was also used in Jeremy Paxman's final edition of Newsnight in 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9608516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9608516", "title": "Institute of Socio-Political Research", "text": "Institute of Socio-Political Research\n\nThe Institute of Socio-Political Research under the Russian Academy of Sciences (ISPR RAS) – is a leading Russian academic research center. It is engaged in a fundamental and applied research of social and socio-political processes.\n\nIt was established in 1991 in Moscow.\n\nThe basic areas and directions of the scientific researches involve: global problems of contemporary civilization and Russia; analysis and forecasting of Russia’s socio-political development; social dynamics, structure and stratification of Russian society; methods and instruments for sociological research; sociology of management; political and economic sociology; demographic and migratory processes; sociology of federate and interethnic relations; social problems of national security; sociology of human rights; sociology of youth; social ecology, etc.\n\nThe Institute makes a socio-political analysis of the decisions made by the governmental, legislative and executive bodies.\n\nSince 1992 on it has been engaged in a “How do you do, Russia?” sociological monitoring conducted under the strategic socio-political research.\n\nThe ISPR boasts a solid sociological and demographic data bank.\n\nIt publishes some scientific journals including \"Eurasia\", \"Nauka. Kultura. Obshchestvo\" /\"Science. Culture. Society\"/ (previously known as \"Nauka. Kultura. Predprinimatelstvo.\" /\"Science. Politics. Entrepreneurship\"/), methodical materials and manuals on sociology.\n\nThe Institute runs postgraduate and doctoral courses. \n\nThe International UNESCO Chair of Social and Humanitarian Sciences has been set up at the Institute.\n\nThe Institute has such branches as the United South Branch, North Caucasian Center, North Ossetian Center of Social Research, etc.\n\nThe ISPR maintains close links and cooperates with scientific institutions of the Russian Academy of Sciences, academic and scientific circles of the former USSR member-states, as well as with Great Britain, Germany, Israel, China, Netherlands, USA, France and other countries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41136679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41136679", "title": "Juice Rap News", "text": "Juice Rap News\n\nJuice Rap News is an internet based satirical news show, created in Melbourne, Australia by The Juice Media. The show was the creation of a duo, Hugo Farrant and Giordano Nanni, based in Australia and consists of a rapped \"news report\" with social commentary using comical rap lyrics. The show is known for using satire and rap rhyming to analyse important topics of the day in a humorous, yet philosophical fashion. Juice Rap News is distributed via YouTube. Some episodes were licensed to the international television news channel RT for rebroadcast. The audience of Juice Rap News is international and episodes have been translated into more than 20 languages. 35 episodes were produced in total, plus a video announcing that the 35th episode was the final they would produce. However in September 2016, due to audience demand, Giordano Nanni produced a special episode for that year's United States presidential election, and announced that the series would continue to produce content from time to time, with a new crew.\n\nNanni and Farrant co-wrote and produced the series together in their home studio in Melbourne, Australia. Nanni focused on content (crafting the arguments, narrative and perspectives depicted and explored in the show); while Farrant focused on form (giving the dialogue the \"rhyme and flow\" of rap and performing the vocals of most of the characters). Farrant portrayed the anchor Robert Foster and a host of other characters, including the regulars General Baxter and Terrence Moonseed. Nanni also appeared in the show, portraying many characters, such as Aussie correspondent Ken Oathcarn, \"MSMBS\" host Brian Washington, PR host Ivan Sakamunev, Bill de Berg and George Torwell, all using vox by Hugo Farrant. The goal was to provide an alternative view on world events, one that they felt was lacking in popular media outlets.\n\nRobert Foster, performed by Hugo Farrant, is the anchor and central character of Rap News.\n\nDarth H. Baxter, also performed by Hugo Farrant, is a caricature representing the Military Industrial Complex. When war is in the news, General Baxter is called upon to give the point of view of war-mongering, colonialist governance. Baxter often changes his uniform to represent the topic.\n\nTerrence Moonseed, again performed by Hugo Farrant, is the caricature of the resident mad pseudo-scientist / hippy that often counterpoints General Baxter with new age spirituality and conspiracy theories.\n\nKen Oathcarn, portrayed by Giordano Nanni (with vox by Hugo Farrant), is an Australian bogan stereotype and correspondent for Rap News who appears when Rap News handles Australian-centric topics. In July 2013, Ken Oathcarn visited Julian Assange in the Ecuadorian Embassy in London to give Assange a \"makeover\" for his campaign for senate in Australia.\n\nFictional news reporter for \"MSMBS\" (which is an acronym for Mainstream Media Bullshit and also similar to MSNBC), portraying mainstream American news reporters in a satirical manner.\n\nWilliam De Berg (Bill De Berg - Bilderberg) is a shady businessman who takes advantage of the situation to capitalise. He represents the international business elite colluding to control government policies and legal systems. He also represents the Illuminati and the New World Order. Bill de Berg filled in for Robert Foster and hosted Episode 36, about the 2016 US Presidential Election. \n\nJulian Assange appeared in Rap News Number 5 only a few weeks before the \"Cablegate\" story broke in December 2010. Later, in Episode 20, Assange gets a \"makeover\" by Ken Oathcarn, donning a mullet wig, singing John Farnham's \"You're the Voice\" recorded in the Ecuadorian Embassy in London, where Assange is currently receiving political asylum.\n\nLinguist and political writer Noam Chomsky appeared in Rap News 10. Chomsky's segment was recorded whilst he was visiting Australia to collect the 2011 City of Sydney Peace Prize.\n\nInvestigative journalist and WikiLeaks spokesman Kristinn Hrafnsson appeared in Rap News 13 (A News Hope) to defend WikiLeaks in the context of Newscorp's phone hacking scandal.\n\nHip-hop artist Sage Francis appeared in Rap News 21.\n\nRT America presenter and journalist Abby Martin appeared in Rap News 23, criticizing military intervention in Crimea.\n\nAmerican and Jewish political scientist, activist, professor, and author Norman Finkelstein appeared and rapped in Rap News 24, \"Israel vs Palestine\", as part of a segment hosted by MSMBS anchorman Brian Washington. Finkelstein calls in to the MSMBS programme and interrupts the conversation between Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Brian Washington in order to criticise Israel's actions towards Palestine. He refers to Israel as a \"lunatic state\" and tells Bibi to \"shut up\" after the Israeli statesman accuses Finkelstein of being a \"self-hating Jew\".\n\nPalestinian rap group DAM appeared and rapped in Rap News 24, \"Israel vs Palestine\". The Palestinian trio filmed their scene in Ramallah next to the separation wall that divides Israel from the West Bank. In the episode, they conduct a conversation across the wall with Ken Oathcarn who is on an assignment to Israel to learn about its similarities with Australia as a settler colony. The DAM trio inform Ken Oathcarn about the day of the \"Nakba\" and voice their support for a one state solution to the conflict.\n\nSenator of the Australian Greens party, Scott Ludlam appeared and rapped in Rap News 29, criticizing the actions of Prime Minister Tony Abbott in the lead-up to the 2014 G-20 Brisbane summit, labelling Mr Abbott's laws as \"a fascist fuckfest of Orwellian proportions\" and claiming to \"go full Gandalf on this government's arse, smack down their laws with a dose of you shall not pass\" before appearing dressed as Gandalf in the episode's credits.\n\nRap News 20 caused controversy when it was released during the 2013 Australian Federal Election. Most of the controversy surrounded Julian Assange's appearance in the episode. The character Ken Oathcarn (played by Nanni) convinces Assange that if he is to be successful in his election bid for a Senate seat, he is in need of a make-over. Assange dons a flannel shirt, a blonde mullet wig and a fake Australian flag tattoo, and proceeds to sing a parody of John Farnham’s \"You’re The Voice.\" The video went viral soon after being posted online. It also featured on The Chaser's 2013 Federal Election coverage and Ten's The Project.\n\nThe offending scene was filmed in London's Ecuadorian Embassy where Assange has remained since seeking political asylum on 19 June 2012, which he was granted in August 2012. After Rap News went viral, Assange was publicly chastised for his appearance in the video by Ecuadorian President Rafael Correa, who said,\n\nThis was the first public indication of any friction between Assange and his Ecuadorian hosts.\n\nFurthermore, many major media outlets failed to recognise Rap News 20 as satire, calling it a \"campaign video,\" in what Farrant and Nanni described as \"true to form.\"\n\nIn an interview with ABC Radio, the duo addressed the controversy and confusion, saying,\n\nOn 14 September 2013, Farrant and Nanni notified viewers that a copyright claim had been filled against the video for the parodic use of Farnham's \"You're the Voice\", despite protection for parody and satire under Part III: 41A and Part IV: 103AA of the Australian Copyright Act. On 26 October 2013, the duo uploaded a version without the parody, as an agreement with copyright holders had not been reached.\n\nFive episodes from the first season of Rap News were licensed to be distributed by RT via their website and YouTube channel.\n\nIn January 2014 the producers of Rap News confirmed ten episodes from Season 2 would be licensed to RT for broadcast on both RT's television and YouTube channels.\n\nA brief excerpt about Bitcoin from Rap News 21 (The News) featured in episode 555 of The Keiser Report, a financial program presented by Max Keiser and Stacy Herbert which is broadcast on RT America.\n\nAs of November 2017, the YouTube channel hosting Rap News has received more than 17 million total video views; additionally the channel has over 118,000 subscribers.\n\nRap News has been warmly received by organisations that advocate whistle-blowing including WikiLeaks and The Kindle Project.\n\nThe Rap News videos—either individually, or as a whole series—have been featured on a large number of esoteric and fringe-view websites. (Examples:)\n\nRap News 5 was 'video of the week' on an edition of Al-Jazeera's \"The Listening Post\", which aired on 27 November 2010. A heavily edited version of RN5 (lasting just over 60 seconds) played out the episode.\n\nIn a very brief article, Michael Kelly of \"Business Insider\" wrote about Rap News, saying \"This Australian website calls out the immense rise in US domestic surveillance\" and went on to describe the Rap News 15 segment as \"informative and entertaining\".\n\nRap News 15 also came to the attention of American cryptographer and security expert Bruce Schneier, who posted a link to the video on his website, accompanied with text simply stating: \"wow\".\n\nAustralian Senator Scott Ludlam quoted verbatim a small excerpt from Rap News 19 to conclude a speech he was making in the Australian Senate regarding whistle-blowers. The exact portion he quoted was \"Whistleblowers; they leak in the public interest. Now what remains to be known is - is the public interested? If so, this might be a good day to exhibit it! Ignorance is a choice, in the age of the internet.\"\n\nSee controversies.\n\nZachary Shahan of \"TreeHugger\" and CleanTechnica wrote two brief reviews of Rap News 22 in which he claimed to have \"really enjoyed it and thought it was quite well done\" but went on to say \"while they are satirizing conspiracy theorists and global warming deniers, they probably reinforce the myths more than dispel them.\"\n\nRap News once again made The Listening Post's 'video of the week', with RN23. A two-minute extract from the Crimea Media Wars video was aired on 5 April edition of the program.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4503296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4503296", "title": "Karin Knorr Cetina", "text": "Karin Knorr Cetina\n\nKarin Knorr Cetina (also Karin Knorr-Cetina) (born 19 July 1944 in Graz, Austria) is an Austrian sociologist well known for her work on epistemology and social constructionism, summarized in the books \"The Manufacture of Knowledge: An Essay on the Constructivist and Contextual Nature of Science\" (1981) and \"Epistemic Cultures: How the Sciences Make Knowledge\" (1999). Currently, she focuses on the study of global microstructures and Social studies of finance. Knorr Cetina is the\nOtto Borchert Distinguished Service Professor (Jointly Appointed in Anthropology) and Chair of the Department of Sociology at the University of Chicago.\n\nA \"knowledge object\" is a theoretical concept introduced by Knorr Cetina to describe the emergence of post-social relations in epistemic cultures. Knowledge objects are different from everyday things and are defined as unfolding structures that are non-identical with themselves; Jyri Engeström based the concept of social objects on this concept.\n\nKnorr-Cetina studied at the University of Vienna, receiving a Ph.D. in Cultural Anthropology (with a minor in sociology) in 1971. Her dissertation research focused on the structural analysis of oral literature. She shifted her focus toward sociology as she found that cultural anthropology at the time was too focused on historical concerns, while she was more interested in contemporary social phenomena. Following the completion of her doctorate, Knorr-Cetina went to the Institute for Advanced Studies in Vienna, where many influential sociologists were invited to give presentations. This resulted in a Post-doctoral diploma in sociology, and an appointment as an instructor in anthropology at the University of Vienna from 1972–73, and then in sociology from 1973-76. During this time, Knorr-Cetina engaged in her first empirical investigations of science leading the 1975 publication (with Hermann Strasser and Hans Georg Zilian) \"Determinants and Controls of Scientific Development\". It was also during these years that she first encountered the work of the ethnomethodologically-inclined sociologist Aaron Cicourel, specifically \"Method and measurement in sociology.\"\n\nFrom 1976-77, Knorr-Cetina received a Ford Foundation Fellowship to study at the Institute for the Study of Social Change at the University of California, Berkeley. Shortly before her arrival in California, the French philosopher-turned-sociologist Bruno Latour and British sociologist Steven Woolgar began their well known \"laboratory studies\" at the Salk Institute in southern California. Korr-Cetina's work at Berkeley ultimately contributed to this network of laboratory studies in the late 1970s, which would eventually become the field of the Social Studies of Science and Technology. The empirical research conducted while at Berkeley also became her widely-cited 1981 publication \"The Manufacture of Knowledge: An Essay on the Constructivist and Contextual Nature of Science\". Knorr-Cetina also received her Habilitation in sociology at the University of Bielefeld in 1981, and served as Professor of Sociology at Bielefeld from 1983 to 2001. Her work in the social studies of science during these years culminated in her widely-cited book \"Epistemic Cultures: How the Sciences Make Knowledge,\" published in 1999.\n\nKnorr-Cetina's progression to understanding how technology mediates sociality led her to select global financial markets as a new \"laboratory\" to study knowledge in society. The first suggestion of this new field site was in the article \"Sociality with objects: Social relations in postsocial knowledge societies\" (1997), followed later by a conference on \"The Status of the Object in Social Science\" at Brunel University in September 1999. The paper she presented at this conference, entitled \"The Market as an Object of Attachment: Exploring Postsocial Relations in Financial Markets\", was later published in 2000. Her co-author was Urs Bruegger, a former foreign exchange dealer. The two collaborated on over a dozen articles on global financial markets.\n\nWith the turn of the century, Knorr Cetina became interested in global financial markets as an object of study. From early work with Urs Bruegger, we see this developing into a strong research interest. This work is enhanced by the application of tools from science studies and the sociology of knowledge, for example, imagining \"the market\" as an object of attachment for traders or using market infrastructure (e.g. Bloomberg terminals) to see the microconstruction of the global market in the space of the local. The financial market infrastructure also comprises a \"global scopic system\" that integrates news and information across the world.\n\nKnorr Cetina’s lecture “The Synthetic Situation: Interactionism for a Global World” from 2008 is vital in rethinking past assumptions about communication and interaction order previously published by sociologists, namely Erving Goffman. In the lecture, which was eventually published in 2009, Knorr Cetina introduces and explains new concepts regarding global interaction. Although Goffman is widely published and read in these areas, much has changed since his day and Knorr Cetina conceptualized such changes.\n\nThe introduction of the “synthetic situation” is arguably one of her most important new concepts. It is defined as a situation that “…invariably includes, and may in fact be entirely constituted by, on-screen projections…”. A synthetic situation, therefore, can manifest in many ways, both informal and formal. Examples include an online video chat, playing video games against others on the Internet or even a business deal done via videoconference. This idea can be seen as a result of the advancement in technology in recent years, and adds a new dimension to Goffman’s social situation where face-to-face interaction is required. Knorr Cetina explains the difference of the two situations by the use of surgery. A Goffmanian situation occurs when there is just the surgeon and the patient. A synthetic situation arises, however, when the surgeon uses technology like a scope and a screen in order to accomplish the task at hand. Without looking at the patient through the screen, the job would not be able to be done and would remain a face-to-face, social situation.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24736344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24736344", "title": "Liberation Front of the State of Cabinda", "text": "Liberation Front of the State of Cabinda\n\nThe Front for the Liberation of the State of Cabinda (\"Frente de Libertação do Estado de Cabinda\" (FLEC(Lopes))) is a separatist group created by Cabindese expatriates in the Netherlands in 1996. This group adopted a blue, yellow and black flag with the Silambuco monument in the center.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36808720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36808720", "title": "Master of the treasury", "text": "Master of the treasury\n\nThe master of the treasury or treasurer (, , , ' or ', ) was a royal official in the Kingdom of Hungary from the 12th century. Although treasurers were initially responsible for collecting and administering royal revenues, they adopted more and more judiciary functions and turned into the highest judges of the realm. From the 14th century, treasurers presided over the court of appeals for a group of the free royal cities, including Buda, Bártfa, Eperjes, Kassa, Nagyszombat and Pressburg (Pozsony) (today Bardejov, Prešov, Košice, Trnava and Bratislava in Slovakia).\n\nThe name is derived from the Slavic word \"tovor\" (\"casket\", \"strong-box\").\n\nInitially, the treasurer (taverník) was the administrator of the royal treasury (i.e. the financial manager of the royal Court (\"curia regis\")) in the early Hungarian state. In the 12th and 13th century, besides the curia regis, he became also responsible for the remaining properties of the king. When the royal properties were considerably reduced under King Andrew II of Hungary (1205-1235; see Comitatus (Kingdom of Hungary) for details), the treasurer also became responsible for all royal income from royal régales (coinage, exchange of coins, precious metals management, mining monopoly, salt monopoly, customs duty), from the taxes of royal towns etc.\n\nUnder King Charles Robert (1308–1342) he became a kind of combined finance minister and minister of economy. In 1385, the actual treasurer function, i.e. administrator of the royal treasury, became the responsibility of a separate person, who was the treasurer (magister tavernicorum)'s deputy first, and later a separate royal officer.\n\nThe observance of rights and duties of royal towns was also the responsibility of the treasurer. Since the importance of these towns increased in the 14th and 15th century, the treasurer's importance increased as well. He became also the judge charged with appeals from major free royal towns (tavernical courts). Around 1400, the list of these towns was not stabilized yet, but from the first half of the 15th century, these towns stabilised (Buda, Kassa (Košice), Pressburg (Pozsony, Bratislava), Nagyszombat (Trnava), Eperjes (Prešov), Sopron and Bártfa (Bardejov)) and were called \"tavernical towns\". In the course of the 15th century, these tavernical courts became the only courts of the tavernical towns. By the late 15th century, the associate judges of these courts were representatives of the tavernical towns only (and no additional nobles as was the case earlier). The law applied in these courts was a special \"tavernical law\" (\"ius tavernicale\"), the first collection of which arose in 1412-18 (\"Vetusta iura civitatum sive iura civilia\"). It was used as special law system until the 18th century.\n\nThe treasurer was also a member of the Royal Chamber and later also of the Vice-regency council (see palatine).\n\nAfter the creation of the Hungarian Chamber (the supreme financial and economic authority of the Kingdom of Hungary between 1528 and 1848), the influence of the treasurer further decreased, because this authority took over many of his tasks.\n\nThe function (including the tavernical courts) was abolished \"de facto\" in 1848; the treasurer's function, however, continued to exist formally till 1918 as the fourth highest royal dignitary, who was member of the Upper Chamber of the parliament of the Kingdom of Hungary and played a certain role in the coronation of the king.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21122209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21122209", "title": "Ministry of Defense (Ethiopia)", "text": "Ministry of Defense (Ethiopia)\n\nThe Ministry of National Defense of Ethiopia is a cabinet-level office in charge of defense related matters of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia. It oversees the Ethiopian National Defense Force and Ethiopian Defense Industry. The current minister is Aisha Mohammed.\n\nThis institution can trace its origins back to the Ministry of War, which Emperor Menelik II established in 1907, and made \"Fitawrari\" Habte Giyorgis Minister over it. Emperor Haile Selassie re-established the Ministry of War in 1942, making \"Ras\" Abebe Aregai its Minister.\n\nThe Ministry is headed by a civilian minister which is a requirement of Article 87 of the current constitution of Ethiopia. It was established 23 August 1995 with the passing of Proclamation 4/1995, which also established the other 14 Ministries.\n\n"}
{"id": "44169087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44169087", "title": "Ministry of Economic Affairs (Bhutan)", "text": "Ministry of Economic Affairs (Bhutan)\n\nMinistry of Economic Affairs (MOAF) is ministry of Bhutan responsible for proper management of economy in the country.\n"}
{"id": "21575239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21575239", "title": "National Health Service Lottery", "text": "National Health Service Lottery\n\nThe National Health Service Lottery was a failed lottery scheme designed to provide funding for the National Health Service in the United Kingdom. The scheme progressed as far as a trial in May 1988, but the draw was cancelled at the last minute on legal grounds, and the 43,000 people who took part had their money refunded.\n\nThe lottery, which was a national equivalent of earlier localised lotteries in support of hospital services, had a jackpot of £200,000, and even progressed as far as the issuing of tickets and a prize draw in May 1988. The scheme was approved by Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher in April 1988, and it was estimated that a single draw could have raised up to £500,000 for the NHS.\n\nAlthough the National Health Lottery scheme was based upon earlier localised lotteries designed to generate funds for health services, by becoming national in scope, the scheme contravened the Lotteries and Amusements Act 1976. The scheme was referred to the Director of Public Prosecutions by the Gaming Board of Great Britain on 16 May 1988, halting the lottery before the first winner could be announced.\n\nThe Attorney-General, Sir Patrick Mayhew reported in the House of Commons in July 1988 that letters were written on 23 and 24 May to the company responsible for running the lottery indicating that the director would request police inquiries if the lottery draw took place.\n\nThe issue later appeared at Prime Minister's Questions on 27 October 1988:\n\nMr. Janner: \"Does the Prime Minister recall recently endorsing a lottery intended to benefit the grossly under-resourced National Health Service and then having to remove her endorsement when the lottery turned out to be illegal? Is she proposing to endorse a further lottery launched today for the same purpose, which appears to be illegal under both current and intended legislation?\"\n<br>\nMargaret Thatcher: If something is illegal, one cannot possibly endorse it...On that particular private sector lottery, the advice was that as far as could be seen it was legal. When the advice came that it was illegal, of course one did not endorse it. I have not the slightest intention of having a national lottery organised by the Government. I disapprove of them.\n\nDespite the failure of the scheme, the idea for a national lottery in aid of the health service was not dropped and was extensively debated during Parliamentary Questions on 28 July 1988, and on later occasions. It was noted in a 1989 issue of \"Health Affairs\" that surveys showed the most popular approach to raising funds for the NHS was \"not an increase in progressive income taxes, but rather the launching of a new national lottery (65 percent)\". The idea of a \"national lottery\" in aid of good causes eventually materialised in the form of the National Lottery, first launched in 1994.\n"}
{"id": "302565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302565", "title": "National Languages Committee", "text": "National Languages Committee\n\nThe National Languages Committee was established in 1928 by the Ministry of Education of the Republic of China with the purpose of standardizing and popularizing the usage of Standard Chinese (also called Mandarin) in the Republic of China. The Committee was known in English as the Mandarin Promotion Council or the National Languages Promotion Committee until 2003, but the Chinese name has not changed. The phrase \"Guoyu\" (國語 \"National language\") typically refers to Standard Chinese, but could also be interpreted as referring to \"national languages\". The reorganization of the Executive Yuan made the duties of the National Languages Committee be transferred to the Department of Lifelong Education's fourth sector (Reading and Language Education) from 2013.\n\nIt was created as the Preparatory Commission for the Unification of the National Language by the Republic (then still based in Nanjing) on 21 April 1919. On 12 December 1928, the Commission was renamed to the Preparatory Committee for the Unification of the National Language, headed by Woo Tsin-hang and had 31 members. The Committee was revived in 1983 as the Mandarin Promotion Council based on Taiwan.\n\nThe decisions reached by the Council include:\n\nThe Committee for National Language Romanization (羅馬字母拼音研究委員會) under the Council selects and modifies Romanization Systems. The official Mandarin romanization systems in the Republic of China have been:\n\nSince the Taiwanization movement took hold in government, the Committee also handles:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33952492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33952492", "title": "National fonts", "text": "National fonts\n\nThai National fonts (; ), or colloquially SIPA fonts (), are a group of thirteen Thai-Roman fonts distributed and used by the Government of Thailand as public and official fonts after they won a national competition held in 2007. The fonts and all of their subsequently developed versions are released by the Software Industry Promotion Agency (Public Organisation), or SIPA, together with the Department of Intellectual Property through f0nt.com, and can be downloaded freely on the website.\n\nThe competition was organised by Abhisit Vejjajiva's Council of Ministers, with a view to replacing all existing fonts the Thai Government bought from private sector, including Microsoft's \"Angsana New\", \"Browallia New\", \"Cordia New\" and \"EucrosiaUPC\" which were extensively used at that time, with the fonts created by Thai nationals. The competition was part of the project proposed by the Ministry of Information and Communication Technology, called the \"Standard Fonts for Thai Public Sectors\" Project (โครงการฟอนต์มาตรฐานราชการไทย). The Ministry was quoted as saying: \"...Various fonts are now used among the public agencies, that's why the state papers have never become standard. The fonts are also from the private companies which monopolise the rights over them, so we cannot use them as much as we should...\".\n\nOn 7 September 2010, the Council of Ministers officially announced the thirteen fonts as the public fonts, naming them the \"national fonts\". The public agencies were ordered to use these fonts, especially \"TH Sarabun PSK\", in their state papers. They were required to cease to use the private sector's fonts by 5 December 2010, Bhumibol Adulyadej's 83rd birthday anniversary. The legislative branch and the judicial branch were also asked for cooperation.\n\nThe font \"TH Sarabun PSK\" is used in the Government Gazette of Thailand on and from January, 2011, replacing \"Angsana New\". The Gazette's first volume using such font is volume 128, part 1 A, dated January 7, 2011, in which the \"Ministerial Regulation Determining the Criteria and Procedure for Acknowledging the Aircraft Type Certificates or Supplementary Type Certificates issues by the State Parties to the Conventions governing the Application for Certificates of Airworthiness or by the States with which Thailand has adopted the similar Agreements, BE 2553 (2010)\" (\"กฎกระทรวงกำหนดหลักเกณฑ์และวิธีการรับรองใบรับรองแบบอากาศยานหรือใบรับรองแบบส่วนเพิ่มเติมที่ออกโดยรัฐภาคีแห่งอนุสัญญาหรือประเทศที่ได้ทำความตกลงกับประเทศไทย เพื่อขอใบสำคัญสมควรเดินอากาศ พ.ศ. 2553\") was published.\n\nThe font \"TH Sarabun PSK\" is also used on the current logo of Thai Wikipedia. This version of the logo was designed by Pratya Singto (ปรัชญา สิงห์โต), a graphic designer who runs f0nt.com, and was adopted by the Community as it won a .\n\nThe thirteen fonts are:\n\n"}
{"id": "4672258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4672258", "title": "Need to know", "text": "Need to know\n\nThe term \"need to know\", when used by government and other organizations (particularly those related to the military or espionage), describes the restriction of data which is considered very sensitive. Under need-to-know restrictions, even if one has all the necessary official approvals (such as a security clearance) to access certain information, one would not be given access to such information, or read into a clandestine operation, unless one has a specific \"need to know\"; that is, access to the information must be necessary for one to conduct one's official duties. This term also includes anyone that the people with the knowledge deem necessary to share it with.\n\nAs with most security mechanisms, the aim is to make it difficult for unauthorized access to occur, without inconveniencing legitimate access. Need-to-know also aims to discourage \"browsing\" of sensitive material by limiting access to the smallest possible number of people.\n\nThe Battle of Normandy in 1944 is an example of a need-to-know restriction. Though thousands of military personnel were involved in planning the invasion, only a small number of them knew the entire scope of the operation; the rest were only informed of data needed to complete a small part of the plan. The same is true of the Trinity project, the first test of a nuclear weapon in 1945.\n\nLike other security measures, need to know can be misused by persons who wish to refuse others access to information they hold in an attempt to increase their personal power, prevent unwelcome review of their work, prevent embarrassment resulting from actions or thoughts. \n\nNeed to know can also be invoked to hide extra-legal activities. This may be considered a necessary use, or a detrimental abuse of such a policy when considered from different perspectives.\n\nNeed to know can be detrimental to workers' efficiency. The speed of computations with IBM mechanical calculators at Los Alamos dramatically increased after the calculators' operators were told what the numbers meant:\n\nThe discretionary access control mechanisms of some operating systems can be used to enforce need to know. In this case, the owner of a file determines whether another person should have access. Need to know is often concurrently applied with mandatory access control schemes, in which the lack of an official approval (such as a clearance) may absolutely prohibit a person from accessing the information. This is because need to know can be a subjective assessment. Mandatory access control schemes can also audit accesses, in order to determine if need to know has been violated.\n\nThe term is also used in the concept of graphical user interface design where computers are controlling complex equipment such as airplanes. In this usage, when many different pieces of data are dynamically competing for finite user interface space, safety-related messages are given priority.\n\n"}
{"id": "5610928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5610928", "title": "Nepali Congress's Liberation Army", "text": "Nepali Congress's Liberation Army\n\nNepali Congress's Liberation Army(Congress Mukti Sena) was the militant wing of the Nepali Congress Party.Establishment in 1944 the Sena took part in an armed uprising against the rana rule in Nepal .Later the Liberation Army was integrated into the Nepali Police, following the 'Delhi Compromise'.\n\n"}
{"id": "52647404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52647404", "title": "Never Again pledge", "text": "Never Again pledge\n\nThe Never Again pledge or NeverAgain.tech is a commitment by information technology workers to work against a United States government database identifying people by race, religion, or national origin, specifically in response to the Trump presidential campaign statements about creating a Muslim registry and deporting millions of illegal immigrants.\n\nThe pledge was placed online on December 13, 2016 and had gathered more than 1,300 technology worker signatures two days later, including employees of Amazon.com, Apple Inc., Google, and Microsoft. The online release was intended to anticipate the meeting of Silicon Valley executives with Trump on December 14. The pledge grew out of a Bay Area Tech Solidarity meeting held by Maciej Ceglowski; the lead organizer of the pledge was Leigh Honeywell, with co-organizers Ka-Ping Yee and Valerie Aurora. The name of the pledge refers to the historical use of IBM information technology in World War II to enable the internment of Japanese Americans in the United States and the Holocaust and use of Nazi concentration camps in Germany.\n\n\"Computerworld\" magazine wrote, and Aurora admitted, that the action of publicly signing the pledge could put tech workers at risk of losing their jobs, especially those with security clearances. \"Inc.\" magazine wrote that before the Never Again pledge, only Twitter had stated that it would oppose a Muslim registry, but after the pledge, the list of such American technology companies grew to include Apple Inc., Facebook, Google, IBM, Lyft, Medium, Microsoft, Salesforce.com and Uber. (\"Inc.\" maintains A Running List of Tech Companies That Have Pledged Not to Build a Muslim Registry.)\n"}
{"id": "381538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=381538", "title": "OODA loop", "text": "OODA loop\n\nThe OODA loop is the cycle, \"observe, orient, decide, and act\", developed by military strategist and United States Air Force Colonel John Boyd. Boyd applied the concept to the combat operations process, often at the operational level during military campaigns. It is now also often applied to understand commercial operations and learning processes. The approach explains how agility can overcome raw power in dealing with human opponents.\n\nThe OODA loop has become an important concept in litigation, business, law enforcement, and military strategy. According to Boyd, decision-making occurs in a recurring cycle of observe-orient-decide-act. An entity (whether an individual or an organization) that can process this cycle quickly, observing and reacting to unfolding events more rapidly than an opponent can thereby \"get inside\" the opponent's decision cycle and gain the advantage. Frans Osinga has argued that Boyd's own views on the OODA loop are much deeper, richer, and more comprehensive than the common interpretation of the \"rapid OODA loop\" idea.\n\nBoyd developed the concept to explain how to direct one's energies to defeat an adversary and survive. Boyd emphasized that \"the loop\" is actually a set of interacting loops that are to be kept in continuous operation during combat. He also indicated that the phase of the battle has an important bearing on the ideal allocation of one's energies.\n\nBoyd's diagram shows that all decisions are based on observations of the evolving situation tempered with implicit filtering of the problem being addressed. The observations are the raw information on which decisions and actions are based. The observed information must be processed to orient it for decision making. In notes from his talk \"Organic Design for Command and Control\", Boyd said,\nThe second O, orientation—as the repository of our genetic heritage, cultural tradition, and previous experiences—is the most important part of the O-O-D-A loop since it shapes the way we observe, the way we decide, the way we act.\n\nAs stated by Boyd and shown in the \"Orient\" box, there is much filtering of the information through our culture, genetics, ability to analyze and synthesize, and previous experience. Since the OODA Loop was designed to describe a single decision maker, the situation is usually much more complex than shown, as most business and technical decisions have a team of people observing and orienting, each bringing their own cultural traditions, genetics, experience and other information. It is here that decisions often get stuck, which does not lead to winning, because:\n\nIn order to win, we should operate at a faster tempo or rhythm than our adversaries—or, better yet, get inside [the] adversary's Observation-Orientation-Decision-Action time cycle or loop ... Such activity will make us appear ambiguous (unpredictable) thereby generate confusion and disorder among our adversaries—since our adversaries will be unable to generate mental images or pictures that agree with the menacing, as well as faster transient rhythm or patterns, they are competing against.\n\nThe OODA loop, which focuses on strategic military requirements, was adapted for business and public sector operational continuity planning. Compare it to the Plan Do Check Act (PDCA) cycle or Shewhart cycle.\n\nAs one of Boyd's colleagues, Harry Hillaker, put it in \"John Boyd, USAF Retired, Father of the F16\":\nThe key is to obscure your intentions and make them unpredictable to your opponent while you simultaneously clarify his intentions. That is, operate at a faster tempo to generate rapidly changing conditions that inhibit your opponent from adapting or reacting to those changes and that suppress or destroy his awareness. Thus, a hodgepodge of confusion and disorder occur to cause him to over- or under-react to conditions or activities that appear to be uncertain, ambiguous, or incomprehensible.\n\nThe OODA Loop also serves to explain the nature of surprise and shaping operations in a way that unifies Gestalt psychology, cognitive science and game theory in a comprehensive theory of strategy. Utility theory (the basis of game theory) describes how decisions are made based on the perceived value of taking an action. The OODA Loop shows that prior to making a decision (the Decide phase), the person will first have to get information (Observe) and determine what it means to him and what he can do about it (Orient). In this way, the utility sought at the Decide phase can be altered by affecting the information the opponent receives and the cognitive model he applies when orienting upon it.\n\nWriter Robert Greene wrote in an article called \"OODA and You\" that ... the proper mindset is to let go a little, to allow some of the chaos to become part of his mental system, and to use it to his advantage by simply creating more chaos and confusion for the opponent. He funnels the inevitable chaos of the battlefield in the direction of the enemy.\nConsider a fighter pilot being scrambled to shoot down an enemy aircraft.\n\nBefore the enemy airplane is even within visual range, the pilot will consider any available information about the likely identity of the enemy pilot—the nationality, level of training, and cultural traditions that may come into play.\n\nWhen the enemy aircraft comes into radar contact, more direct information about the speed, size, and maneuverability of the enemy plane becomes available; unfolding circumstances take priority over radio chatter. A first decision is made based on the available information so far: The pilot decides to \"get into the sun\" above his opponent, and acts by applying control inputs to climb. Back to observation—is the attacker reacting to the change of altitude? Then comes orient: Is the enemy reacting characteristically, or perhaps acting like a noncombatant? Is his plane exhibiting better-than-expected performance?\n\nAs the dogfight begins, little time is devoted to orienting unless some new information pertaining to the actual identity or intent of the attacker comes into play. Information cascades in real time, and the pilot does not have time to process it consciously; the pilot reacts as he is trained to, and conscious thought is directed to supervising the flow of action and reaction, continuously repeating the OODA cycle. Simultaneously, the opponent is going through the same cycle.\n\nOne of John Boyd's primary insights in fighter combat was that it is vital to change speed and direction faster than the opponent. This may interfere with an opponent's OODA cycle. It is not necessarily a function of the plane's ability to maneuver, but the pilot must think and act faster than the opponent can think and act. Getting \"inside\" the cycle, short-circuiting the opponent's thinking processes, produces opportunities for the opponent to react inappropriately.\n\nAnother tactical-level example can be found on the basketball court, where a player takes possession of the ball and must get past an opponent who is taller or faster. A straight dribble or pass is unlikely to succeed. Instead, the player may engage in a rapid and elaborate series of body movements designed to befuddle the opponent and deny him the ability to take advantage of his superior size or speed. At a basic level of play, this may be merely a series of fakes, with the hope that the opponent will make a mistake or an opening will occur, but practice and mental focus may allow one to accelerate tempo, get inside the opponent's OODA loop, and take control of the situation, causing the opponent to move in a particular way and generating an advantage rather than merely reacting to an accident. Taking control of the situation is key. It is not enough to speed through OODA faster, which results in flailing.\n\nThe same cycle operates over a longer timescale in a competitive business landscape, and the same logic applies. Decision makers gather information (observe), form hypotheses about customer activity and the intentions of competitors (orient), make decisions, and act on them. The cycle is repeated continuously. The aggressive and conscious application of the process gives a business advantage over a competitor who is merely reacting to conditions as they occur or has poor awareness of the situation. Especially in business, in which teams of people are working the OODA Loop, it often gets stuck at the \"D\" (see Ullman) and no action is taken allowing the competition to gain the upper hand or resources to be wasted.\n\nThe approach favors agility over raw power in dealing with human opponents in any endeavor. Boyd put the ethos into practice with his work for the United States Air Force. He was an advocate of maneuverable fighter aircraft, in contrast to the heavy, powerful jet fighters (such as the McDonnell Douglas F-4 Phantom II) that were prevalent in the 1960s. Boyd inspired the Lightweight Fighter program (LWF) that produced the successful General Dynamics F-16 Fighting Falcon and McDonnell Douglas F/A-18 Hornet, which are still in use by the United States and several other military powers into the 21st century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4022572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4022572", "title": "One Jerusalem", "text": "One Jerusalem\n\nOne Jerusalem is an organisation with the stated mission of \"maintaining a united Jerusalem as the undivided capital of Israel\". It was founded as a response to the Oslo Peace Process, specifically, out of a concern that the settlement might lead to Palestinian sovereignty over Jerusalem's Temple Mount or Noble Sanctuary.\n\nChaired by former Deputy Prime Minister Natan Sharansky, the organisation is entirely publicly funded. One Jerusalem's website describes its activities as follows: \"One Jerusalem organizes, educates and rallies supporters in Israel and all democratic countries, so that we can educate elected government officials ...\". \n\nAn inaugural rally organised by One Jerusalem in January 2001 to protest the proposal of Palestinian sovereignty over the Temple Mount attracted a crowd variously described as thousands (CNN Report 2001-01-08), 100,000 (Israeli TV reports via CNN) and 400,000 (One Jerusalem).\n\nOne Jerusalem has over 100,000 members from across the globe.\n\nDavid Bar-Illan, Rabbi Chaskel Besser, The Baroness Cox, Dore Gold, Emil L. Fackenheim, Douglas Feith, David Horowitz, Jean Kahn, Yechiel Leiter, Jackie Mason, Nancy Montgomery, Libby Pataki, Eli Pollack, Tom Rose, Natan Sharansky, Michael Siegal, Ron Silver, David P. Steinmann \n\n"}
{"id": "7013377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7013377", "title": "Participatory rural appraisal", "text": "Participatory rural appraisal\n\nParticipatory rural appraisal (PRA) is an approach used by non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and other agencies involved in international development. The approach aims to incorporate the knowledge and opinions of rural people in the planning and management of development projects and programmes.\n\nThe philosophical roots of participatory rural appraisal techniques can be traced to activist adult education methods such as those of Paulo Freire and the study clubs of the Antigonish Movement. In this view, an actively involved and empowered local population is essential to successful rural community development. Robert Chambers, a key exponent of PRA, argued that the approach owes much to \"the Freirian theme, that poor and exploited people can and should be enabled to analyze their own reality.\"\n\nBy the early 1980s, there was growing dissatisfaction among development experts with both the reductionism of formal surveys, and the biases of typical field visits. In 1983, Robert Chambers, a Fellow at the Institute of Development Studies (UK), used the term \"rapid rural appraisal\" (RRA) to describe techniques that could bring about a \"reversal of learning\", to learn from rural people directly. Two years later, the first international conference to share experiences relating to RRA was held in Thailand. This was followed by a rapid acceptance of usage of methods that involved rural people in examining their own problems, setting their own goals, and monitoring their own achievements. By the mid 1990s, the term RRA had been replaced by a number of other terms including \"participatory rural appraisal\" (PRA) and \"participatory learning and action\" (PLA).\n\nRobert Chambers acknowledged that the significant breakthroughs and innovations that informed the methodology came from community development practitioners in Africa, India and elsewhere. Chambers helped PRA gain acceptance among practitioners. Chambers explained the function of participatory research in PRA as follows:\n\nOver the years techniques and tools have been described in a variety of books and newsletters, or taught at training courses. However, the field has been criticized for lacking a systematic evidence-based methodology.\n\nThe basic techniques used include:\n\nTo ensure that people are not excluded from participation, these techniques avoid writing wherever possible, relying instead on the tools of oral communication and visual communication such as pictures, symbols, physical objects and group memory. Efforts are made in many projects, however, to build a bridge to formal literacy; for example by teaching people how to sign their names or recognize their signatures. Often developing communities are reluctant to permit invasive audio-visual recording.\n\nSince the early 21st century, some practitioners have replaced PRA with the standardized model of community-based participatory research (CBPR) or with participatory action research (PAR). Social survey techniques have also changed during this period, including greater use of information technology such as fuzzy cognitive maps, e-participation, telepresence, social network analysis, topic models, geographic information systems (GIS), and interactive multimedia.\n\n"}
{"id": "46819027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46819027", "title": "Periprava labor camp", "text": "Periprava labor camp\n\nThe Periprava labor camp was a labor camp operated by the Romanian communist regime. It was located near the village of Periprava in the Danube Delta.\n\nPeriprava was one of the places of detention of Romanian writer Florin Pavlovici, described by him in his memoirs. It first housed political prisoners in 1959.\n\nIn 2013 the former commandant of the camp, Ioan Ficior, was indicted for genocide.\n"}
{"id": "5570834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5570834", "title": "Piazza della Loggia bombing", "text": "Piazza della Loggia bombing\n\nThe Piazza della Loggia bombing was a bombing that took place on the morning of 28 May 1974, in Brescia, Italy during an anti-fascist protest. The terrorist attack killed eight people and wounded 102. The bomb was placed inside a rubbish bin at the east end of the square. In 2015, a Court of appeal in Milan issued a final life sentence to \"Ordine Nuovo\" members Carlo Maria Maggi and Maurizio Tramonte for ordering the bombing, closing one of the longest-running cases on terrorism during Italy's years of lead.\n\nThe first judicial investigation led to the condemnation in 1979 of a member of the Brescian far-right movement, Ermanno Buzzi. However, this first sentence was cancelled in 1982, but in 1983 the Court of Cassation declared the appeal process must be redone at the Court of appeal in Venice. The suspects were acquitted in 1985 by the Court of Venice, and in 1987 by the Supreme Court of Cassation. Buzzi, killed in Novara's prison by neo-fascists Pierluigi Concutelli and Mario Tuti in 1981, was judged \"a corpse to be carried out\".\nA second investigation led to the accusation of another far-right activists; Cesare Ferri, Sergio Latini and Alessandro Stepanoff. They were acquitted for lack of evidence in 1987; in 1989 Ferri and Latini were acquitted for not having committed the crime, Stepanoff for lack of evidence.\nA third investigation led to a trial for Francesco Delfino (a Carabiniere), Carlo Maria Maggi, Pino Rauti, Maurizio Tramonte and Delfo Zorzi (members of the \"Ordine Nuovo\" neo-fascist group). The presence of Tramonte in the place at the time of the blast was confirmed in 2008 by the results of an anthropological forensic test on a picture taken that day.\nOn 16 November 2010, the Court of Brescia acquitted the defendants (the prosecutor had requested life imprisonment for Delfino, Maggi, Tramonte and Zorzi, and the acquittal for lack of evidence for Pino Rauti). The four defendants were acquitted also in 2012, but in 2014 the supreme Court of Cassation declared the appeal process must be redone at the Court of appeal in Milan for Maggi and Tramonte. Delfino and Zorzi are finally acquitted. On 22 July 2015, the Court of appeal sentenced Maggi and Tramonte to life imprisonment for ordering and coordinating the massacre.\nOn 21 of June 2017, Tramonte was arrested in Portugal by the Portuguese Police in the Sanctuary of Fátima, while allegedly praying for forgiveness.\n\n\nA 2000 parliamentary report by the Olive Tree coalition claimed \"that US intelligence agents were informed in advance about several right-wing terrorist bombings, including the December 1969 Piazza Fontana bombing in Milan and the Piazza della Loggia bombing in Brescia five years later, but did nothing to alert the Italian authorities or to prevent the attacks from taking place. It also [alleged] that Pino Rauti [current leader of the Social Idea Movement ], a journalist and founder of the far-right Ordine Nuovo subversive organisation, received regular funding from a press officer at the US embassy in Rome. 'So even before the 'stabilising' plans that Atlantic circles had prepared for Italy became operational through the bombings, one of the leading members of the subversive right was literally in the pay of the American embassy in Rome,' the report says.\n\n"}
{"id": "8886329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8886329", "title": "Prejudicial interest", "text": "Prejudicial interest\n\nIn UK local authority politics, the term prejudicial interest is used to describe a particular type of conflict of interest involving councillors. When a councillor has an interest in a topic under debate that may affect their ability to fairly and objectively consider the subject, he or she is said to have a prejudicial interest. An example would be a councillor discussing a planning application for a company in which he or she has an interest. The councillor has an interest in the plans being approved and is therefore considered to have a \"prejudicial interest\".\n\nThe Standards Board for England is the body responsible for investigating allegations of undeclared prejudicial interests. It is the responsibility of the councillor to declare their interest prior to discussions or votes and, once declared, they must leave the room for the duration of the discussion or vote.\n\nAnyone can make an allegation of an undeclared prejudicial interest although the Standards Board for England can only investigate reactively rather than proactively - i.e. they cannot intervene to stop an offence from taking place, only investigate the offence once it has taken place.\n\nCouncillors and members of other local authorities in England are governed by a Code of Practice which is enforced by the Standards Board for England. In Scotland, the Standards Commission for Scotland carries out a similar function but also regulates members of devolved bodies. In Wales, it is the Public Services Ombudsman for Wales that carries out the equivalent function.\n"}
{"id": "43792927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43792927", "title": "Prolifico Group", "text": "Prolifico Group\n\nProlifico is an alternative real estate and private equity investment management firm based in Brazil. The company was founded in 2009 and is headquartered at São Paulo. It also operates out of Rio de Janeiro and London.\n\nThe company creates and manages investment vehicles in order to invest on real estate dependent business models on behalf of its investors.\n\nSince the year 2009, when the company was founded, Prolifico has entered into a number of joint ventures to form operating business. The company operates on four different sectors:\n\n\nThe Self Storage operating company is jointly owned with the CEO and Founder of a top Europe’s self-storage operator Big Yellow. The Student Housing operating company was founded together with the ex-Head of Operations at UNITE and the Senior Living operating company is jointly owned with the former head of development and operations of over 400 care homes internationally for BUPA.\n\n"}
{"id": "59005456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59005456", "title": "Public Health (Alcohol) Bill", "text": "Public Health (Alcohol) Bill\n\nThe Public Health (Alcohol) Bill is a piece of Irish legislation. \n\nIt was first published in 2015 and agreed on by the Dáil in October 2018. It is intended to reduce alcohol consumption and the harms caused by the misuse of alcohol. It provides for statutory minimum prices on alcohol, restrictions on advertising, stark warning labels on alcohol products, and the separation and reduced visibility of alcohol products in mixed trading outlets.\n\nThe Minister for Health Simon Harris brought 23 sections of the Bill into operation in November 2018. Alcohol advertising is to be banned within 200 metres of a school, crèche, or local authority playground and in or on public service vehicles, at public transport stops or stations from 2019. From 12 November 2020 alcohol products must be separated by a high barrier from other goods. From 2021 various measures come into force to ensure that children are protected from alcohol advertising.\n"}
{"id": "25198681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25198681", "title": "Quamina", "text": "Quamina\n\nQuamina Gladstone, most often referred to simply as Quamina, was a Guianese slave, a Coromantee, who was father of Jack Gladstone. He and his son were involved in the Demerara rebellion of 1823, one of the largest slave revolts in the British colonies before slavery was abolished.\n\nHe was a carpenter by trade, and worked on an estate owned by Sir John Gladstone. Quamina was implicated in the revolt by the colonial authorities, apprehended and executed on 16 September 1823. He is considered a national hero in Guyana, and there are streets in Georgetown and the village of Beterverwagting on the East Coast Demerara, named after him.\n\nQuamina was a carpenter who lived and worked on the \"Success\" plantation in Demerara. According to da Costa, Quamina was African-born; he and his mother were sold into slavery when he was a child. His mother died on a plantation in 1817. In some source material, he is surnamed Gladstone, as the enslaved adopted surnames of their masters by convention. Sir John Gladstone, who had never set foot on his plantation, had acquired half share in the plantation in 1812 through mortgage default; he acquired the remaining half four years later.\n\nHe attended services at the Bethel Chapel of the London Missionary Society on neighbouring Le Resouvenir plantation when the chapel opened in 1808. Under the guidance of Reverend John Wray, he learned to read and write. As was witnessed in a letter he wrote to the LMS, he was persuaded to attend the recently opened church by the person who he served as apprentice. Wray noticed positive changes after he became Christian. Quamina was proud and hardworking, and was baptised on 26 December 1808. On being assessed for fitness to become a member, Quamina declared that when he was young, he had been a houseboy and had to \"fetch\" girls to entertain the estate's managers. When Wray was sent to nearby Berbice in 1816, his replacement John Smith was equally impressed by Quamina's qualities. He took an interest in others, and had become widely respected by slaves and free blacks throughout the colony. One of five slaves elected deacon by the congregation in 1817, Quamina became Smith's personal favourite, and was highly trusted by John Smith and his wife, Jane. According to da Costa, he was a \"loyal, well-behaved, trustworthy and pious deacon.\" He brought news of the congregation members on a day-to-day basis, and was always consulted about the affairs of any member.\n\nQuamina had many wives, but he cohabited for twenty years with Peggy, a free woman. As was common with other slaves, he had been harshly treated and humiliated by his masters and once was beaten badly and incapacitated for six weeks. He was frequently forced to work, thus missing religious services. In 1822, when Peggy was taken seriously ill, he was forced to work all day, every day, and was not allowed any time off to look after her. One evening, he returned to find her dead.\n\nBeing very close to Jack, Quamina supported his son's aspirations to be free, by supporting the fight for the rights of slaves. But he was at the same time a rational man. He had been troubled for some time by rumours he had heard about an emancipation ordered by Britain that was being withheld by the colonists. Rev. John Smith noted in a private journal entry on 25 July that Quamina had spoken of the matter. Smith assured him that any announcement would be of measures to improve the slaves' condition, and that the rumours of anticipation were not to be believed. He urged him to tell the other slaves, particularly the Christians, not to rebel and sent Manuel and Seaton on this mission. When he knew the rebellion was imminent, he urged restraint, and made the fellow slaves promise a peaceful strike. News of the planned rebellion had leaked out, and Quamina was arrested by John Stewart, the manager at his plantation, shortly before it was due to start. And although he was set loose by fellow slaves as the rebellion was unfolding, Quamina never took up arms, and even actively prevented from Stewart from coming to any harm. After the slaves' defeat in a major battle at \"Bachelor's Adventure\", Jack fled into the woods. A \"handsome reward\" of one thousand guilder was offered for the capture of Jack, Quamina and about twenty other \"fugitives\". Although Jack led thousands of slaves in rebellion, most of the colonists thought the reverse – that Quamina was the ultimate leader, and Jack was merely aiding and abetting it. Jack and his wife were captured by Capt. McTurk at Chateau Margo on 6 September after a three-hour standoff. Quamina remained at large until he was captured on 16 September in the fields of Chateau Margo. He was executed, and his body was hung up in chains by the side of a public road in front of \"Success\".\n\nThe very low number of white deaths is proof that the uprising was largely peaceful – plantation owners, managers and their families were locked up and not harmed. Hundreds of slaves died during the various battles and skirmishes during the revolt, or were executed as \"ringleaders\". Jack Gladstone was sold and deported to Saint Lucia. The rebellion helped bring attention to the plight of sugar plantation slaves, accelerating the full abolition of slavery.\n\nQuamina is considered a national hero in Guyana. In 1985 the post-independence Guyana renamed Murray Street in Georgetown – named for former Demerara Lieutenant Governor John Murray (1813–1824) who was in charge of the colony during the unrest and rebellion – Quamina Street in his honour. A monument to him was erected at the junction of Quamina and Carmichael Streets. He is equally depicted in a mural in the dome at the headquarters of the Guyana Bank for Trade and Industry (GBTI) building in Water Street, Georgetown.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50135751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50135751", "title": "Reform Party (Iceland)", "text": "Reform Party (Iceland)\n\nThe Reform Party (Icelandic: \"Viðreisn\") is a liberal political party in Iceland that was founded on 24 May 2016 but had existed as a political network since June 2014. It split from the Independence Party, mainly over discontent with its decision not to hold a referendum on joining the European Union and lack of support for free-trade.\n\nThe party supports Icelandic EU membership, and reform of farming subsidies and protective excise taxes on foreign produce. It wants public policy to focus on the general interest of society and reduce influence from special interests. Viðreisn is in favor of a publicly financed welfare state. It supports pegging the króna to another currency, such as the Euro, through a currency board as a plan to lower interest rates. Its healthcare policy aims at reducing the patient's share of healthcare costs.\n\nViðreisn has been assigned the list letter C. It participated in the 2016 elections to the Althing (Icelandic parliament) and won seven seats.\n\n"}
{"id": "36283370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36283370", "title": "Rostock Peace Treaty", "text": "Rostock Peace Treaty\n\nThe Rostock Peace Treaty () was a treaty, or \"Landfriede\", agreed on 13 June 1283 in Rostock to secure the peace on land and at sea, as well as the protection of taxes and other freedoms. The parties to the treaty agreed that, for ten years, they would avoid the use of force in exercising their rights. This treaty was the foundation for the economic growth of Wismar and other medieval seaports on the Baltic Sea.\n\nThe signatories to the treaty were the Hanseatic towns of Lübeck, Rostock, Wismar, Stralsund, Greifswald, Stettin, Demmin and Anklam as well as the dukes of Saxony and Pomerania, the Prince of Rügen, the lords of Schwerin and Dannenberg as well as the lesser nobility of Rostock.\n\n"}
{"id": "28234845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28234845", "title": "Salt Reservations", "text": "Salt Reservations\n\nThe Salt Reservations (also known as the Salt Lands) were a collection of land tracts surrounding salt springs in Ohio and some other states that were donated to the states by the federal government early in the 19th century.\n\nThe United States had acquired the lands northwest of the Ohio River at the 1783 Treaty of Paris after the American Revolutionary War, and these lands were finally open to settlement. Leaders knew that in frontier lands such as the Ohio Country, salt was a precious and scarce commodity, especially for preserving meat in an era before refrigeration. Americans knew from explorers and Indians of the presence of springs of water containing salt. So that no one would buy the land upon which salt springs sat, and thus acquire a monopoly of a rare necessity of life, the national government reserved land from public sale on which salt springs were found.\n\nIn 1796, Congress passed two pieces of legislation to regulate the surveying and sale, or other dispersal, of public lands northwest of the Ohio river, that had not yet been sold or surveyed. The first of these was the Land Act of May 18, 1796 This act called for the land to be surveyed into townships on a side, arranged in a checkerboard pattern, and further divided into sections of square that will be sold to the public. Section 3 of this act states \"That a salt spring lying upon a creek which empties into the Sciota river, on the east side, and as many contiguous sections as shall be equal to one township, and every other salt spring which may be discovered, together with the section of one mile square which includes it…shall be reserved, for the future disposal of the United States.\" Subsequent surveys identified two additional salt springs near the Muskingum River.\n\nThe second relevant congressional action in 1796 was the creation of the United States Military District in eastern Ohio. The government did not have adequate funds to pay soldiers during the Revolutionary War. Instead, they were promised land grants, called bounties, dependent on rank, after the conclusion of the war. The Act of June 1, 1796 set aside a district, described how to survey it, and how to distribute the bounties. Section 1 of this act also reserved tracts, in this act, (squares 2 ½ miles on a side), around any salt springs that might be found. Subsequent surveys revealed one salt spring in what is now Delaware county.\n\nAround the turn of the century, the population of the territory increased to the point that statehood became the next logical step. On April 30, 1802, the Ohio Enabling Act set forth the boundaries of the new state and arranged for election of delegates to a state constitutional convention to meet later that year. The Second proposition of Section 7 of the act states \"That the six mile reservation, including the salt springs, commonly called the Scioto salt springs, the salt springs near the Muskingum river, and in the military tract, with the sections of land which include the same, shall be granted to the said state for the use of the people thereof, the same to be used under such terms and conditions and regulations as the legislature of the said state shall direct: Provided, the said legislature shall never sell nor lease the same for a longer period than ten years.\"\n\nThe state legislature provided for leasing these lands for salt production. They were cared for by agents, and rental was charged for the right to make salt. In 1803 the rental was three cents per year for each gallon of kettle capacity used in boiling the water. The rental rate declined periodically, until by 1810, the rental rate was just five mills (½ cent).\n\nThe Scioto salt springs were extensively developed. The salt was carried by pack horse to settlements, and sold for up to eight dollars per hundred pounds in 1801. The salt springs on the Muskingum were also worked, but the Delaware county springs invited little attention.\n\nThe reservation was in the survey called the Congress Lands East of Scioto River in present-day Jackson County, Ohio. It consisted of eight sections of township 6, range 18, four sections of township 6, range 19, sixteen sections of township 7, range 18, and eight sections of township 7, range 19. \n\nBy 1816, a settlement had grown around the spring, and Ohio wished to form Jackson county. They petitioned Congress to allow sale of a section of salt land to pay for a county courthouse. The Act of April 16, 1816 allowed this action, and section 29 of township 7 of range 18 was sold for $7,169.00 and the town of Jackson was erected there. The remainder of the reserve was surveyed into tracts, numbered in each township in a like manner as the sections.\n\nThe reservations were two sections of land in Muskingum County, Ohio, section 13 of township 13 of range 12 , and section 9 of township 11 of range 13 of the Congress Lands East of Scioto River\n\nThe reservation was a four thousand acre (16 km²) tract of land in Delaware County, Ohio consisting of quarter 1 of township 5 of range 18 of the United States Military District \n\nBy 1824, salt springs had been found to be not so rare as previously thought, and worries over monopolization diminished. Ohio petitioned Congress to sell the rest of the salt lands. The Act of December 28, 1824 allowed this sale, with \"the proceeds thereof to be applied to such literary purposes as the legislature may hereafter direct; and to no other use, intent, or purpose whatsoever.\"\n\nSome other states were granted six sections around each salt spring as in the table, which may be incomplete.\n\nIn 1877, Congress changed the treatment of saline lands. The Act of January 12, 1877 was called An act providing for the sale of Saline lands. It provided that any lands determined by the officers of a land office to be saline in character \n\n\n"}
{"id": "39460173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39460173", "title": "Sanvitale conspiracy", "text": "Sanvitale conspiracy\n\nThe Sanvitale conspiracy () was a plot to assassinate Ranuccio I Farnese, Duke of Parma and Piacenza, and members of his family at the baptism of his new-born son Alessandro in 1611. The conspiracy may also be referred to in Italian as the , \"conspiracy of the feudal lords\", or as the , \"conspiracy of 1611\".\n\nThe plot was exposed and the conspirators were arrested and tortured. They were found guilty of \"lèse-majesté\" and ten of them were publicly executed in Parma on 19 May 1612; the event was called the , or \"great justice\", and attracted attention throughout Italy and abroad. The \"gran giustizia\" brought immediate advantages to the Farnese, who were at the same time rid of troublesome rivals and enriched by the appropriation of their money and lands. However many, including some in powerful foreign courts, believed that the plot had been entirely fabricated by Ranuccio for exactly these purposes. Ranuccio's reputation was seriously and permanently damaged. The question of whether the plot was real or a fabrication is still open.\n\nThe Sanvitale conspiracy was the third plot against the Farnese family in the space of seventy years. The first was the successful conspiracy, supported or instigated by Ferrante Gonzaga, of Giovanni Francesco Anguissola, Gianluigi Confalonieri, Agostino Landi and Alessandro, Camillo and Gerolamo Pallavicino to assassinate Pier Luigi Farnese, who was stabbed to death by Anguissola and two hired killers in Piacenza on 10 September 1547. The second was the failed conspiracy of Claudio Landi, Prince of Val di Taro, with Giambattista Anguissola and Giammaria and Cammillo Scotti to assassinate Ottavio Farnese, Duke of Parma in 1582, following which Landi lost the Val di Taro to the Farnese, and the other conspirators lost their heads.\n\nBarbara Sanseverino was heiress to the fief of Colorno, which her ancestor Roberto Sanseverino, Conte di Caiazzo had received from Francesco Sforza in 1458. She had married on 6 September 1564, in her fifteenth year, Giberto IV Sanvitale, Duca di Sala, and following his death in 1585 had obtained from Ottavio Farnese a decree that allowed her to pass Colorno to their only son Girolamo Sanvitale. In the early 1600s this was contested by Ranuccio Farnese on the grounds that the fief could not pass by maternal succession. He claimed Colorno, and sent troops to occupy it.\n"}
{"id": "53770438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53770438", "title": "Spanish Question", "text": "Spanish Question\n\nSpanish Question may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "3261607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3261607", "title": "Sri Lanka National Pharmaceuticals Policy", "text": "Sri Lanka National Pharmaceuticals Policy\n\nThe Sri Lanka National Pharmaceuticals Policy was established in the 1970s following the submission of a report by Dr S.A. Wickremasinghe and Prof. Seneka Bibile. It aimed at ensuring that people get good quality drugs at the lowest possible price and that doctors would prescribe the minimum required drugs to treat the patient's illness. It was a pioneer in the field of rational National pharmaceuticals policy.\n\nAt the time, pharmaceutical companies were making considerable money by selling drugs under their trade names, giving out biased information about the branded drugs as against those named generically. Doctors often prescribed branded drugs, which were far more expensive than generic drugs, which have the same efficacy.\n\nThe United Front Government of 1970 appointed the Wickremasinghe-Bibile commission of inquiry into this issue and it recommended the establishment a national policy and of a state body to regularise the trade.\n\nIn the 1970s Sri Lanka demonstrated that a state buying agency linked to a national formulary was a viable and powerful instrument for reducing drug costs without compromising quality, for saving foreign exchange, for rationalising drug usage and for supplying essential drugs at reasonable prices to the whole community. This was made possible by the formulation and implementation of an integrated national pharmaceutical policy.\n\nA unique phenomenon about Sri Lanka's pharmaceuticals policy was that the entire programme was conceived, formulated, developed and implemented by Sri Lankan nationals without any form of external aid or assistance.\n\nA careful selection of drugs is an essential prerequisite of a national pharmaceutical policy. In Sri Lanka, the Ministry of Health requested Prof. Seneka Bibile to look into his matter and he prepared the Ceylon Hospital Formulary (CHF) of about 630 drugs under their generic names. Subsequently the Ministry of Health established a National Formulary Committee (NFC), consisting of representatives from the public and private health sectors and the University Medical Schools, led by Bibile. It published \"Formulary Notes\" for doctors, keeping them updated on developments.\n\nAccordingly, in 1971 the State Pharmaceuticals Corporation of Sri Lanka (SPC) was established with Bibile as Chairman. The SPC channelled all imports and production of pharmaceuticals, calling for worldwide bulk tenders which were limited to the approved drugs listed in the CHF. The public and private health sectors had to obtain all their requirements from the SPC.\n\nHence the stranglehold of the Multinational corporations on the drug trade was successfully broken and they were made to compete with each other and with generic drug producers, enabling the country to obtain drugs much cheaper. Branded drugs were replaced by generic drugs in the prescription and sale of medicines.\n\nIn 1972 it imported 52 drugs at a third of their previous prices. In 1973, the SPC itself bought the raw material necessary for 14 private processing laboratories established in the island. Some drug prices dropped by half or two-thirds. The SPC bought from an Indian company the raw material necessary for a widely used tranquilliser at a much lower price than that charged by a Swiss multinational.\n\nIt is essential that correct information on drugs and therapeutics be given to all medical personnel. The promotional material provided by the drugs manufacturers tends to be distorted in favour of their own products and adds to the costs of supplying drugs.\n\nIn Sri Lanka, drug information was provided from official sources. \"The Prescriber\", a quarterly publication edited by the NFC, was published by the SPC and distributed to all medical personnel. The extravagant promotional practices of drugs manufacturers were stopped to remove the dangers and costs inherent in process.\n\nThe Sri Lanka experience became a model for the rest of the world. The policy was supported by the World Health Organization and other United Nations agencies with enormous benefit to Third World countries. The United Nations Conference on Trade and Development Secretariat examined the Sri Lankan experience, concluding that an analysis of the Sri Lankan model could give other developing countries an insight into ways of formulating, developing and implementing integrated national pharmaceutical policies. With Bibile’s assistance, it published \"Case Studies in the Transfer of Technology: Pharmaceutical Policies in Sri Lanka\". This document has proved to be a very valuable guideline for developing countries intending to initiate pharmaceutical reforms. Translated into other languages, it may be found with health planners of almost every Third World country.\n\nThe first response from the multi-national corporations came in May 1973. Executives of the major pharmaceutical companies in the United States met Sri Lanka's ambassador in Washington, D.C. and handed him a letter addressed to the Prime Minister of Sri Lanka from the President of the Pharmaceutical Manufacturer's Association (PMA) of the US. The letter concluded with a statement that the PMA believed that the proposed actions would have most serious effects not only on the pharmaceutical industry and on all private industry in Sri Lanka but potentially for the health of its citizens.\n\nThe International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Associations (IFPMA) issued a statement to UNCTAD strongly criticising the UNCTAD report on the Sri Lankan pharmaceutical policies.\n\nThis policy was watered down by the multi-national-friendly United National Party Government of 1977. There was continued government control of the types of drugs imported, but permission was given to the private sector to import multiple brands. The SPC was never dissolved and continued to supply affordable drugs, continuing to be responsible for centralised procurement for the government health sector.\n\nIn 1987 the Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing Corporation was established to import raw materials and manufacture generic drugs. This has effectively withstood very strong pressures for privatisation.\n\nThe earlier centrally controlled system enabled effective monitoring. However, at present, because of decentralisation of drug supply, while standard treatment guidelines are available, there is no effective monitoring system for prescription practices is in place; there is little quality assessment and no incentive for rational use.\n\nIn 2005 the United People's Freedom Alliance Government promised to establish a National Medicinal Drugs Policy (NMPD) that would enable Sri Lankans significantly to cut down on drug expenses and get quality drugs at affordable prices while saving billions of rupees in foreign exchange for the country. Implementation of the NMDP could reduce the number of drugs imported, prescribed and sold in Sri Lanka to about 350 varieties.\n\nDr. K Balasubramaniam , 'The neglected solution', \"Daily News\", 30 September 2002.\n\nDr. K. Balasubramanium, 'Drugs: David and Goliath', \"Daily Mirror\", 8 November 2002.\n\n\"Include Medicinal Drugs Policy in Polls Manifesto\"\n\nDr. Nihal Jayathilaka, Improving access to affordable essential drugs: the experience of Sri Lanka\n\nProf. Tissa Vitarana, \"The Sri Lankan who challenged global giants\"\n\nBibile, S, and Lall, S, 'The Political Economy of Controlling Transnationals: The Pharmaceutical Industry in Sri Lanka (1972-76)', \"World Development\", August 1977.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40547060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40547060", "title": "Tanzania Intelligence and Security Service", "text": "Tanzania Intelligence and Security Service\n\nThe Tanzania Intelligence and Security Service (TISS) is the national intelligence and security agency of Tanzania.\n"}
{"id": "45138441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45138441", "title": "Vivian Conley", "text": "Vivian Conley\n\nshe also like people\n\nIn addition to her civil rights work, for twenty years she served as the education coordinator for Trinity United Methodist Church. She also founded Ball State University's Nontraditional Student Association. She herself attended Ball State University at the same time as her own daughter and three of her grandsons.\n\nThe Conley Library on Centennial Avenue in Muncie, which has closed, was named in her honor. The Vivian Conley Award is named after her, as is the Vivian Conley Memorial Scholarship Fund (a \"Ball State University scholarship for nontraditional, part-time students who demonstrate a commitment to the betterment of our community.\") The Vivian Conley Award is given to women who work in art, business, community service, education, environment, health, humanitarian aid, and religion.\n"}
