{"id": "29784661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29784661", "title": "1961 F-84 Thunderstreak incident", "text": "1961 F-84 Thunderstreak incident\n\nThe 1961 F-84 Thunderstreak incident, occurring on 14 September 1961, was an incident during the Cold War, in which two Republic F-84F Thunderstreak fighter-bombers of \"JaBoG 32\" of the German Air Force (\"Luftwaffe\") crossed into East German airspace because of a navigational error, before landing at Berlin Tegel Airport. The two planes successfully evaded a large number of Soviet fighter planes by finding cover in a heavy layer of clouds, but also by the actions of an airman at the United States Air Force air route traffic control center at Berlin Tempelhof Airport who ordered the planes on to Berlin rather than forcing them to turn around and face the pursuing fighter planes. The event came at a historically difficult time in relations between the two Germanies. Only a month before, the Berlin Wall had been built, which completely cut off West Berlin from surrounding East Germany and from East Berlin. It also came three days before the West German federal election, held on 17 September 1961.\n\nAt the time, violations of airspace at the border between West and East Germany were common, with, on average, two aircraft a month belonging to members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) crossing into Eastern airspace while a much larger number of Soviet planes crossed into that of West Germany. There were 38 violations of West Germany's air space by Soviet aircraft in a period of just four weeks between August and September 1961. Some of the violations were deliberate, to determine the opposite side's reaction, while others were by mistake, caused by the difficulty in determining the border line from the air.\n\nBetween the end of the Second World War and the German reunification, West German planes were not permitted to fly to West Berlin, regardless of whether they were civilian or military aircraft. The three existing air corridors to the city were only open to planes from the three wartime Western Allies: the United States, France and the United Kingdom.\n\nOn 14 September 1961, under the code name \"Checkmate\", the NATO high command mobilised the air forces of France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Denmark, and West Germany for the purpose of an exercise. As part of this exercise, the \"Jagdbomber\"s of \"Jagdbombergeschwader (JaBoG) 32\", based at Lechfeld Airbase, south of Augsburg, were to fly a triangular route from Würzburg to Laon and then to Memmingen.\n\nTwo F-84 fighter-bombers, flown by Feldwebel Peter Pfefferkorn and Stabsunteroffizier Hans Eberl, lost their course in the process of flying this route, with the compass on Pfefferkorn's plane misreading by between 40 and 60 degrees. Additionally, a strong westerly wind was greater in strength than had been forecasted. On their way from Würzburg to Laon, the two pilots had become so disoriented that they mistook Liège in Belgium for Reims in France.\n\nShortly after, the pair were picked up by NATO radar stations near Warburg, in southern Westphalia, heading east, in the direction of Königs Wusterhausen, south of Berlin. The two pilots missed a radio call from the radar stations advising them to turn around because they were talking to each other, trying to establish their location.\n\nIt was only when reaching a position north of Leipzig, deep within East German air space, that Pfefferkorn sent a Mayday signal, which was picked up, to their surprise, by the French-controlled airport at Tegel in West Berlin, which gave them permission to land. The planes had initially not been noticed by the radar operator at the Berlin Tempelhof Airport because he was concentrating on an incoming Pan Am Douglas DC-6. By the time they were noticed, the pair were being unsuccessfully chased by a large number of Soviet fighter aircraft. An airman in the Berlin Air Route Traffic Control Center ordered the two pilots not to turn around and face the pursuing fighter planes but instead to head for the Tegel airport as it had a longer runway than Tempelhof and was more suitable for jets. Because of the actions of this airman and the heavy cloud cover, which the two pilots used to conceal themselves, Pfefferkorn and Eberl escaped the pursuing Soviet aircraft and successfully landed their planes without further incident at Tegel.\n\nImmediately after the two aircraft landed, the French authorities at Tegel airport explained to the Soviet authorities in East Berlin that, because of technical difficulties, an emergency landing of the two planes had been absolutely necessary.\n\nThe then-West German Minister of Defence, Franz-Josef Strauß, apologised to the Soviet ambassador in Bonn for the incident, sending his secretary of state, Volkmar Hopf. The government of the Soviet Union remained silent for a number of days with regards to the incident, before officially protesting against the West German \"provocation\" and threatening to shoot down any aircraft involved if the incident was repeated.\n\nThe Soviet air command in East Germany was less than impressed with the 'unpunished' flight of two Western fighter planes through their airspace. However, it chose to blame bad weather for the incident rather than the failure of its ground control to guide the Soviet fighter planes on to the West German ones.\n\nWilly Brandt, the leader of the opposition Social Democratic Party in the upcoming federal elections, and the mayor of West Berlin, questioned how the two pilots could be put in a situation where they would be forced to violate international conventions in a time of strained relations between the East and the West. Initially, Strauß announced a stringent investigation into the incident; instead, however, he and Josef Kammhuber, Inspector of the Air Force, transferred the commander of \"JaBoG 32\", Oberstleutnant Siegfried Barth, and announced that any commander whose unit committed a violation of international borders would be immediately replaced.\n\nWhen Kammhuber announced this order at Lechfeld the following day, it was dubbed \"Bier Order 61\" (\"Beer Order 61\") because it was formulated late at night over drinks between Kammhuber and Strauß. Barth, commander of \"JaBoG 32\", was not questioned with regard to the incident, and was not allowed to speak during Kammhuber's visit. Instead, Generalleutnant Martin Harlinghausen, Barth's superior officer, who had once, in 1944, stood up to Hermann Göring, spoke for Barth and demanded a proper investigation.\n\nTwo weeks later, Harlinghausen was forced into early retirement. The non-commissioned officers of \"JaBoG 32\" sent a letter to Strauß requesting that Barth should retain his command, without receiving any answer. Eventually, a proper investigation was conducted which found Barth to be innocent, a result unacceptable to Kammhuber, who initiated a second investigation that found the \"Oberstleutnant\" partly at fault. A third investigation followed, which again found Barth to be innocent. Oberstleutnant Barth then lodged an official complaint against Franz-Josef Strauß. Strauß, as minister of defence, ordered all witnesses in the case - Generals Kammhuber, Harlinghausen, Werner Panitzki and Werner Streib as well as Lieutenant Colonels Walter Krupinski and Walter Grasemann - not to speak, as they were all military personnel and therefore under his command. Nevertheless, his conduct in dismissing Barth was found to be at fault, and the latter had to be reinstated in his position. Strauß, however, ignored this decision until Hellmuth Heye, Ombudsman for the Military, forced him to accept it. Strauß himself was later forced to resign from his post as Minister of Defence, in the wake of the \"Spiegel\" scandal in 1962. Kammhuber retired from his post in the same year.\n\nUpon arrival at Tegel, the two planes were immediately hidden in hangars and journalists were prohibited from taking pictures of them. For years after, it was believed that the two planes had been repainted as aircraft of the United States Air Force and returned to West Germany by USAF pilots, or that they had been disassembled and transported back to the West in pieces. The arrival of two massive Douglas C-124 at Tegel from Frankfurt am Main also fuelled speculations that the two F-84s would be transported back in these aircraft. Another theory (which turned out to be true) held that the two aircraft were hidden by the French authorities at Tegel and, later, buried at the airfield, where they were accidentally rediscovered in the 1970s.\n\nIn an exhibition at the \"Luftwaffenmuseum Berlin-Gatow\" in 2006, pictures of the two buried and then rediscovered Thunderstreaks at Tegel were shown, finally clearing up the question of what became of the two planes.\n\nThe pilots of the two Thunderstreaks, Pfefferkorn and Eberl, were banned from flying and transferred to the ground crew at Lechfeld. The F-84F Thunderstreak, in service with the \"Jagdbombergeschwader 32\" since inception of the unit on 22 July 1958, was phased out of service on 13 July 1966, the \"Geschwader\" having accumulated over 80,000 flight hours with the planes.\n\nEleven months after the F-84 incident, the Soviet threat of to shooting down any aircraft violating the border materialized when a Hawker Sea Hawk of the \"Bundesmarine\", piloted by Kapitänleutnant Knut Anton Winkler, was shot at by MiG-21 fighters when it accidentally crossed into East German airspace near Eisenach. Winkler, who had been returning from a training exercise on board in the Atlantic Ocean, had to carry out an emergency landing at Ahlhorn, 45 km southwest of Bremen. The aircraft was eventually written-off. Winkler himself died less than four years later in a F-104 Starfighter accident on 10 May 1966.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52430801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52430801", "title": "2016 Saudi Arabian snowstorm", "text": "2016 Saudi Arabian snowstorm\n\nThe 2016 Saudi Arabian snowstorm was an extreme weather event in late November 2016, in which parts of the Arabian desert in Saudi Arabia experienced subzero temperatures, snowfall and flooding. \n\nSnow was first reported in northern parts of Saudi Arabia on 23 November. By 25 November, temperatures as low as were reported in Turaif, in Northern Borders Region, and there was snow cover in central and northeastern regions. Normal seasonal temperatures do not fall below . Many Saudis enjoyed unusual outdoor activities such as building snowmen and sliding; however, the snow was followed by rain and lightning that caused flooding and led to the deaths of at least 7 people.\n\n, snow had also fallen in Israel, Syria and other parts of the Middle East.\n\nSnow has occasionally occurred in Saudi Arabia in previous winters. In 2013 a video of a man somersaulting in snow there circulated on social media. In January 2015 a cleric issued a fatwa against building snowmen. In January 2016, snow fell between Mecca and Medina for the first time in 85 years.\n"}
{"id": "56168394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56168394", "title": "2018 in radio", "text": "2018 in radio\n\nThe following is a list of events affecting radio broadcasting in 2018. Events listed include radio program debuts, finales, cancellations, and station launches, closures and format changes, as well as information about controversies.\n"}
{"id": "41798889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41798889", "title": "2019 World Championships in Athletics", "text": "2019 World Championships in Athletics\n\nThe seventeenth edition of the IAAF World Championships is scheduled to be held between 27 September and 6 October 2019 in Doha, Qatar at the renovated multi-purpose Khalifa International Stadium.\n\nThree cities applied for organising the event:\n\nThe final selection of the host city was carried out on November 18, 2014 in Monaco.\n\nIn the United States, NBCUniversal holds rights to the event.\n\nThe Women's 50 kilometres walk will be held for the second time.\n\n"}
{"id": "2497333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2497333", "title": "Angel (Sarah McLachlan song)", "text": "Angel (Sarah McLachlan song)\n\n\"Angel\" is a song by Canadian singer-songwriter Sarah McLachlan about the heroin overdose death of Jonathan Melvoin (1961-1996), the Smashing Pumpkins touring keyboard player, as McLachlan explained on \"VH1 Storytellers\". The song first appeared on \"Surfacing\", the Canadian singer's 1997 album. It is sometimes mistitled as \"In the Arms of an Angel\" or \"Arms of the Angel\".\n\n\"Angel\" was McLachlan's second consecutive top five hit on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart, debuting at number twelve, and then jumping to the top ten the following week, before peaking at number four. It remained at the top ten for nineteen weeks, and for twenty-nine weeks in the top 100. \"Angel\" was the eighteenth most successful song of 1999.\n\n\"Angel\" was one of the first songs written for \"Surfacing\". McLachlan said that writing it was easy, \"a real joyous occasion\", and that \"the bulk of it came in about three hours.\" It was inspired by articles that she read in \"Rolling Stone\" about musicians turning to heroin to cope with the pressures of the music industry and subsequently overdosing. She said that she identified with the feelings that might lead someone to use heroin: \"I've been in that place where you've messed up and you're so lost that you don't know who you are anymore, and you're miserable—and here's this escape route. I've never done heroin, but I've done plenty of other things to escape.\" She said that the song is about \"trying not to take responsibility for other people's problems and trying to love yourself at the same time\".\n\nReleased as a single in 1998, \"Angel\" peaked at #4 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 on February 22, 1999 (after reaching the Top 40 on December 15, 1998), #1 on the Hot Adult Contemporary Tracks chart, and at #36 on the UK Singles Chart.\n\nThe song has had enduring popularity. It is often used to highlight emotional scenes on television shows, and has been featured in a number of soundtracks (including the film \"City of Angels\" and TV's \"Alias\", \"As the World Turns\", \"Cold Case\", \"Dawson's Creek\", \"Early Edition\", \"Felicity\", \"General Hospital\", \"Providence\", \"Strong Medicine\", and \"The Pretender\"). In addition, it is also used as a song of comfort and healing, most often following tragic events such as the death on Diana, Princess of Wales in August 1997, the April 1999 Columbine High School massacre and the September 11, 2001 attacks. Furthermore, a large number of video tributes to loved ones uploaded by YouTube users have been set to this song.\n\nOn July 2, 2005, McLachlan performed this song at Live 8 Philadelphia with Josh Groban. She also performed the song during the \"Concert for Linda,\" dedicating it to the memory of Linda McCartney. On September 10, 2011, McLachlan performed the song to close the ceremonies at the dedication of the Flight 93 Memorial in Stonycreek Township, commemorating the passengers and crew of United Airlines Flight 93 who fought the hijackers and brought down their airplane in the September 11 attacks.\n\nMusician Darryl McDaniels, otherwise known as D.M.C. of the hip-hop band Run-D.M.C., has said that the song saved his life.\n\nThe song has a sparse arrangement — mostly McLachlan at the piano, with subtle upright bass played by Jim Creeggan of Barenaked Ladies. It was recorded in the key of D-flat major. For live performances, it is transposed up one half-step to D major, the key it was originally written in, and played without the bass.\n\nA remix of the track by Dusted appears on McLachlan's 2001 album \"Remixed\".\n\nA live version with Emmylou Harris appears on a Lilith Fair compilation, McLachlan's own iTunes Originals collection, and her \"Rarities, B-Sides and Other Stuff Volume 2\" compilation.\n\nOn Sunday, November 23, 2008, Sarah McLachlan performed \"Angel\" at the American Music Awards with artist Pink.\n\nThe song made its début on the New Zealand Singles Chart on 6 July 2009 at number 36 But Climbed down the charts to number 3 after the success of the City of Angels Movie.Mandy Pickering of Christchurch won the Stars in there eyes finale performing the song in the Grand Finale.\n\nThe song is also often played during a contestant becoming eliminated on \"Indonesia Mencari Bakat\" (Indonesian version of \"America's Got Talent\") on Trans TV.\n\nThis song was used in the final minutes of the season finale of season 3 for \"The Secret Life of the American Teenager\" as everyone discovers that Ben and Adrian's baby is stillborn.\n\nThe 2009 Hallmark Hall of Fame movie \"A Dog Named Christmas\" used this song in one scene.\n\nIn the 2015 Korean TV Drama Yong-pal the full Westlife version was used in one of the final scenes of episode 7.\n\nSince 2007, \"Angel\" has been included in an advertisement for the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA) in which McLachlan serves as the spokesperson. The song is played over video of dogs and cats in an animal shelter and is credited with helping raise millions of dollars for the ASPCA. This ad was later parodied numerous times on the internet and inspired many memes.\n\nThe song was also donated by McLachlan for Tribe of Heart's movie \"The Witness\" which depicts the awakening of consciousness of a New York City construction worker with respect to the treatment of animals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11596922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11596922", "title": "Anti-Terrorism Squad (India)", "text": "Anti-Terrorism Squad (India)\n\nThe Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) is a special police force in several states of India including Maharashtra, Gujarat, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Bihar. In Maharashtra it is headed by senior IPS officer Vivek Phansalkar The squad has stopped several terrorist attacks in the country.\n\nATS was founded in Maharashtra in 1990 by then Additional Commissioner of Mumbai Police Aftab Ahmed Khan popularly known as A.A. Khan. He was inspired by the Los Angeles Police Department's Special Weapons & Tactics (SWAT) teams methods to combat modern-day terrorism. Since its formation in 1990, ATS's officers have won 23 gallantry awards. The Mumbai ATS was involved in the 26 November 2008 hostage rescue operations in multiple locations in Mumbai, Maharashtra including the 5 star hotels Taj and Oberoi Trident. After the attacks, it also started appointing children (ages above 12) as officers of ATC, particularly in Mumbai, and were given training as undercover.\n\nThe ATS was formed on December 1990 and helped reduce the crime rate in Mumbai by 70%. However, there were many human rights violations by the squad, from extreme means of torture to public shootings. Following the 1991 Lokhandwala Complex shootout on 16 November 1991 and many more encounters, the organization was terminated in January 1993. The leader of this program, A.A. Khan, was transferred as the ICP Anti Naxalite division to Nagpur on 29 January 1993 following the termination of the program. One month later on 12 March 1993 the Bombay blasts occurred, and the crime rate has increased since then.\n\nAs per the information available on the official website of Mumbai Police, ATS was created by the Government of Maharashtra, vide G.R. No. SAS-10/03/15/SB-IV,\ndated 8 July 2004 The stated objectives of ATS are:\n\n\nSeveral states in India have created ATS units in their respective police forces, including :\n\nOn 16 November 1991 the ATS Chief, A.A. Khan, lead a squad of officers into the Swati building in Lokhandwala, eliminating 7 gangsters including Maya Dolas and Dilip Buwa. The shootout lasted 4 hours and more than 450 rounds were fired.\n\nThe former ATS Chief Hemant Karkare was killed fighting terrorists on 26 November 2008, at the Cama & Albless Hospital in the Dhobitalao area of Mumbai. Karkare was killed with other two officers: Additional Commissioner Ashok Kamte and encounter specialist Vijay Salaskar. He was among the 14 police officials killed while fighting terrorists in Mumbai.\n\nThe terrorists had holed up in many heritage locations of Mumbai, such as the Taj Mahal Palace Hotel and the Oberoi and Trident, Nariman Point hotels. Here the terrorists had killed 146 people, wounded at least 327, and taken at least 15 people hostage. Indians accounted for 96 dead of those, and at least 300 of those injured.\n\nKarkare, a 1982 batch IPS officer, had returned to his state cadre after a seven-year tenure with the Research and Analysis Wing, India's external intelligence agency, in Austria.\n\nOn 25 January 2009, after receiving a tip-off, ATS agents chased a Maruti 800 car bearing a 'UP' number-plate in Noida. During the chase, the terrorists shot at the police officers who retaliated, causing the car to hit the rear tyre of the suspects' car, veering it off the road. ATS officers then took cover behind a roadblock and engaged the terrorists for 38 minutes in a fierce gun-battle. Officer Vinod Kumar sustained a bullet injury during the gunfight. The two terrorists ceased firing after sustaining multiple gunshot wounds and succumbed to their injuries while they were rushed to the hospital.\n\n"}
{"id": "31377840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31377840", "title": "Arab Observer", "text": "Arab Observer\n\nThe Arab Observer was an English-language weekly news magazine published in Cairo, Egypt between 1960 and 1966.\n\nThe \"Arab Observer\" was founded by Zain Nagati in 1960. At the time, it was one of the only English-language publications from the Middle East. Although not officially a state organ, it generally followed the political orthodoxy of the time.\n\nIts most famous employee was Maya Angelou, who worked as an editor while she was in Cairo. Mahmoud Amr is the former editor-in-chief of the magazine.\n\n"}
{"id": "19924634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19924634", "title": "Ashley Todd mugging hoax", "text": "Ashley Todd mugging hoax\n\nIn October 2008, Ashley Todd, a volunteer for the U.S. presidential campaign of Republican John McCain, falsely claimed to have been the victim of robbery and politically motivated physical assault by a supporter of McCain's Democratic opponent Barack Obama. The story broke less than two weeks before the 2008 United States presidential election on November 4. Todd later confessed to inventing the story after surveillance photos and a polygraph test were presented. She was charged with filing a false police report, and entered a probation program for first-time offenders.\n\nTodd had worked as a field representative for the College Republican National Committee since August 2008 and had come to Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania in mid-October to recruit college students. On October 22, 2008, Todd claimed that she was robbed at knifepoint by a \"six-foot-four African American of medium build, dressed in dark clothes wearing shiny shoes\" at a Citizens Bank ATM in the Bloomfield neighborhood of Pittsburgh. She also alleged that after the robber saw a McCain bumper sticker on Todd's car, he assaulted her, cut a reversed letter \"B\" into her cheek, and told her \"you are going to be a Barack supporter.\" \n\nTodd's story received international attention, including prominent coverage on Drudge Report and Fox News. John Moody, executive vice president at Fox News, commented in a blog on the network's website that \"this incident could become a watershed event in the 11 days before the election,\" but also warned that \"[i]f the incident turns out to be a hoax, Senator McCain's quest for the presidency is over, forever linked to race-baiting.\"\n\nOn October 24, Todd confessed to inventing the story after police reviewed surveillance camera photos and administered a polygraph test. She now said that she had seen the backwards 'B' on her face while driving, and though she did not remember how she got it, assumed that she herself had done it because she had had previous episodes of memory loss. According to police, Todd provided no explanation of why she provided them the story about the mugging instead.\n\nTodd was charged with filing a false police report, a misdemeanor charge with a maximum jail sentence of two years. While jailed, Todd underwent a court-ordered psychiatric examination and was deemed to be competent to stand trial, but in need of further counseling. On October 30, she agreed to a deal in which she was released from jail, but must undergo psychiatric counseling as condition of her release. Upon her formal arraignment in January, Todd would enter a probation program for first-time offenders, after which her record would be expunged if there had been no further offenses. Continued mental health counseling would also be a condition of the probation period. The deal did not require Todd to enter a plea.\n\nAccording to an October 25, 2008 article in the \"Pittsburgh Post-Gazette\", in February 2008, Todd had claimed that her car's tires had been slashed and campaign material had been stolen from her car because of her support for Republican politician Ron Paul, an opponent of McCain for the Republican presidential nomination. Group leader Dustan Costine told the \"Post-Gazette\" that Todd was asked to leave the local Ron Paul grassroots group a month later, after she posed as a Mike Huckabee supporter and called the local Republican committee seeking information about its campaign strategies.\n\n"}
{"id": "54230394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54230394", "title": "Berber separatism in North Africa", "text": "Berber separatism in North Africa\n\nBerber separatism in North Africa refers to a century-long independence struggle of ethnic Berber groups in the areas of modern Morocco, Algeria, Mali and Libya. The first chapter of this modern separatism was embodied in the Rif War, which led to the creation of short-lived Rif Republic (1920–1926). Despite the disintegration of this Berber state, the independence movement continued during the 20th century in Algeria and in 21st century was led by Tuareg tribes in Mali and Libya (the failed attempt to form the Azawad state within Mali in 2012 and \"de facto\" formation of Tuareg autonomy of Ghat within Libya since 2014), and last resurging in Morocco in 2013, escalating into a Berber protest movement in 2016–17.\n\nThe Rif War was an armed conflict fought during the first half of the 1920s between the colonial power Spain (later joined by France) and the Berber tribes of the Rif mountainous region. Led by Abd al-Karim, the Riffians at first inflicted several defeats on the Spanish forces by using guerrilla tactics and captured European weapons. After France's entry into the conflict and the major landing of Spanish troops at Al Hoceima, considered the first amphibious landing in history to involve the use of tanks and aircraft, Abd el-Karim surrendered to the French and was taken into exile.\n\nThe nature of the Rif War is still controversial among historians today. Some see in it a harbinger of the decolonization process in North Africa, while others, on the contrary, see it as one of the last colonial wars, given that it is the decision of the Spaniards to conquer the Rif — nominally part of their Moroccan protectorate but still independent de facto — that launched the conflict in 1921.\n\nIn 1958, Moroccan King Hassan II ordered thousands of troops to the Rif region to quell a civil disobedience movement that had called for social and political rights. As a result, many left the Rif for Europe in search of a better life, returning to their ancestral towns only to build homes that they lived in during vacations or after retirement. This, along with the diversion of much of the region's arable land for cannabis planting, has decimated the local economy and environment.\n\nThe Berber Spring was a period of political protest and civil activism in 1980 claiming recognition of the Berber identity and language in Algeria, with events mainly taking place in Kabylie and Algiers. The background was marked by two decades of harsh Arabization measures instituted by the Arab nationalist FLN dictatorship government, which refused to recognize Algeria's Berber identity and banned the Berber language altogether.\n\nThe Berber Spring is traditionally dated as beginning on March 10, 1980, with the banning of a conference due to be held by the Kabyle intellectual Mouloud Mammeri at Hasnaoua University in Tizi-Ouzou. A critical point was the coordinated arrest of hundreds of Berber activists, students and doctors on April 20, sparking a general strike.\n\nWhile the Berber Spring was in the end violently suppressed by the Algerian authorities, it created a lasting legacy for Kabylie and the Berbers across North Africa. Many of today's prominent Kabyle politicians and activists made their name during the Berber Spring events, and organizations such as the Rally for Culture and Democracy (RCD) and the Berber Cultural Movement (Mouvement Culturel Berbère – MCB) were later created by activists of the Spring. The Spring was also an important event for Algeria's nascent human rights community, including outside Berber circles.\n\nSince the dismantling of the one-party FLN system in 1989—followed by abortive democratization and civil war—a few of the demands of the Berber Spring have been met by the state, and the Berber language is now a national language of Algeria. However, this is still distinct from Arabic, which remains the official language, and many other points of contention remain.\n\nIn 2014 and 2015 a number of ethnic riot incidents plagued Algeria, with a dozen mortal casualties in violence between ethnic Arabs and Berbers.\n\nIn February 2017, protests erupted in Algeria, with some 500 protesters marching. The protest was organized by human rights groups, some trade unionists and a small opposition party. Algeria's main opposition forces were not taking part. Large numbers of police had been mobilized to try to prevent the protest from going ahead. Police at the protest detained Belaid Abrika, a prominent opposition figure and campaigner for the rights of Algeria's large Berber minority.\n\nSince 2013 the Rif Independence Movement resurged in Morocco. Rif Independence Movement is a charter member of the Organization of Emerging African States.\n\nSince late 2016, massive riots have spread across Moroccan Berber communities in the Rif region, initiated after a death of a fishmonger in Al-Hoceima in October 2016. On 31 October, massive demonstrations took place across Morocco, staged by the Berber minority. During January and February 2017, the riots intensified and were marked by unemployment concerns, with around thirty police officers injured in the north Moroccan town of al-Hoceima, after tear gas and rubber bullets were deployed against thousands of mostly young protesters. \n\nAnother escalation took place in May 2017. The protests were led by Nasser Zefzafi, founder of the Al-Hirak al-Shaabi, or the Popular Movement. Zefzafi was arrested by Moroccan Police in late May 2017. Thousands took to the streets in Al-Hoceima since Zefzafi’s arrest, and demonstrations have also spread to the capital Rabat and Casablanca. Demonstrators proclaimed “We are all Zefzafi” and waved Berber flags, with around 40 people arrested. By 30 May, the number of arrested protesters reached 70.\n\n"}
{"id": "3319097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3319097", "title": "Bhumchu", "text": "Bhumchu\n\nBhumchu (Bhum is a pot, Chum is water) is a Buddhist festival, which on the Tibetan lunar calendar is held on the 14th and 15th day of the first month, which is between February and March on the Gregorian calendar. The Bhum or Sacred vase, according to Zigpo Lingpa, is made out of various kinds of sacred soil, water and five kinds of precious jewels found in sacred lands of India, Odiyana and Zahor. In Sikkim the Tashiding Monastery is recognized as a sacred place. It is believed that this place, Dakkar Tashiding in the center of four sacred caves, Sharchog Bephug in the east, Khandozangphu in the south, Dechenphug in the west and Lhari Nyingphug in the north, is meant to free you from the suffering of hell. At the start of the year the vase is opened and the Lama or monk determines the future. “If the water is to the brim, it foretells a year in which peace and prosperity will prevail. If the water is over the brim and is spilling, it signifies a year with natural disaster and disturbances. If the water level is low or almost dry it signifies famine.” The celebration of “The Holy Water Vase” started under the rule of King Trisong Deutsonin Tibet, Guru Padmasambhava.” It is believed that the water overflowed from the vase as a sign of a good omen and there was an earthquake. The four guardian deities of Dharma and the gods of thirty three heavens showered flowers from the sky.” This ritual is one of the holiest in Sikkim. From midnight until the next day thousands are seen waiting to receive the holy water. “A part of the holy water is distributed amongst the gathering of devotes and the pot is replenished with river water and sealed at the end of the festival to be opened only in the during next Bumchu festival.” It is said that by taking a drop of the Bumchu water enlightenment is achieved and all of the evil spirits and distress are removed. It is said one would somehow attain a form of Buddhahood or be born at a higher ranking in the next life. In 2016, it will be on March 19-20.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "35691697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35691697", "title": "Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction", "text": "Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction\n\nThe Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction (BIFR) was an agency of the Government of India, part of the Department of Financial Services of the Ministry of Finance. Set up in January 1987 by the Rajiv Gandhi government, its objective was to determine sickness of industrial companies and to assist in reviving those that may be viable and shutting down the others. On 1 December 2016, the Modi government dissolved BIFR and referred all proceedings to the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) and National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) as per provisions of Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code.\n\nThe BIFR was established under The Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 (SICA).\nThe board was set up in January 1987 and became functional as of 15 May 1987.\nA new industrial policy was tabled in Parliament on 24 July 1991 aiming to maintain growth in productivity and gainful employment and to encourage the growth of entrepreneurship and upgrades to technology.\nThat year the SICA was amended to include public sector enterprises in the board's purview.\n\nThe Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest (SARFAESI) Act of 2002 placed corporate debt outside the purview of the BIFR.\nBy preventing reference to the BIFR, which had become a haven for the promoters of sick companies, the Act gives banks and financial institutions a better tool for recovering bad debt.\nIt was complemented by the corporate debt restructuring package under which lenders and borrowers would meet to agree on a way of recasting stressed debt.\n\nNational Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) and the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) would take over the functions of the BIFR and other bodies and speed up the process of winding down sick companies. The Companies (Amendment) Bill, 2001 was introduced because the government considered that the BIFR had not met its objective of preventing industrial sickness.\nThe Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Repeal Act, 2003 replaced SICA and sought to dissolve the BIFR and the Appellate Authority for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction (AAIFR), replacing them by the NCLT and NCLAT. However, legal hurdles prevented the NCLT from being constituted.\n\nThe Board has a Chairman and from two to fourteen other members, all to be qualified as High Court judges or else to have at least fifteen years of relevant professional experience.\nThe Board only handles large or medium-sized sick industrial companies in which large amounts have been sunk. \nUnder the Sick Industrial Companies Act, the Board of a sick industrial company is legally obliged to report it to the BIFR, and the BIFR has the power to make whatever inquiries are needed to determine if the company is in fact sick.\n\nAmong other objectives the act was to provide a way to revive sick industrial companies and release public funds.\nIf a company is found to be sick, the BIFR can give the company reasonable time to regain health (bring total assets above total liabilities) or it can recommend other measures.\nThe board can take other actions including changes to management, amalgamation of the sick unit with a healthy one, sale or financial reconstruction.\nThe Board can recommend a sick industrial company for winding up.\n\nThe BIFR was intended to bridge the legal gap between sickness and revival.\nIt would impose time schedules for revival related activities to be completed, \noversee their implementation and conduct periodic reviews of sick accounts.\nThe BIFR would provide a forum for sharing views, coordinating effort and developing a unified approach to dealing with sick companies, speeding up the start of corrective action.\nThe BIFR was meant to either turn companies around within six months or order closure.\n\nBy the end of March 1991, the BIFR had registered 1020 cases and heard 954.\n175 were dismissed as not maintainable, and 124 were approved for the company to try to become net-worth positive on their own.\nOf the other 661 cases, the board sanctioned 182 revival plans and recommended that 120 cases be wound up.\nUp to the end of 2007, the BIFR had registered 5,471 references with 1,337 being recommended for winding up and 825 revival schemes being sanctioned.\nThere were 66 sick Public Sector Enterprises registered with the board as of the end of March 2008, of which the government had approved 34 for revival.\n\nBIFR has had mixed success. Some examples of successful recoveries are the recovery of Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited in the 1980s, and more recently the turnaround of Arvind Mills, Scooters India and the North Eastern Regional Agricultural Marketing Corporation.\nThere have been many more cases where attempts to revive the companies failed, including Binny and Co., Calico Mills, Guest Keen Williams, Hindustan Cables, Metal Box Company and Wyman Gordon. Problems have included insufficient resources, delays and lack of political willingness to take tough decisions.\nThe BIFR in practice often became a way of prolonging the life of unviable companies for years at taxpayer expense.\n\nAccording to former Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) chief Pradip Baijal, the board \"was created to deal with the change in status quo outside government and given a quasi-judicial structure, to act in favour of public good, but has perhaps joined the tribe of numerous rent-seekers in the public ownership structure\".\nDiscussing MS Shoes, whose reference was registered by BIFR on 22.2.2002. The productions and export turnover of MS Shoes increased from Rs.25 crores to Rs.171.93 crores. The company came up with public issues which were over subscribed by more than 50 times the company attempted for 5 star hotel land and ready built guest house complex at Hudco Place, New Delhi for deluxe 5 star hotel and 4 star hotel. The reasons of sickness was devolvement of public issue of February,1995 and cancellation as well as forfeiture by Hudco of the amount paid by MS Shoes.\n\nNirmala Ganapathy said: \"One look at the track record of BIFR, and it doesn’t take a to conclude that it is nothing but a graveyard of companies. A tiny fraction comes out healthy — only if the promoter is interested in putting it back up on its feet\". The BIFR approved the revival scheme of the company as the promoters brought in Rs. 41.20 crores as on 31.3.2011 and Rs. 22.08 crores as loan to the company to be converted into equity shares further approving the promoters contribution to be converted into equity by increasing authorised capital from existing Rs. 90 crores to Rs. 200 crores. The promoters brought up the company to its healthy situation since the promoters were interested in putting the company back up on its feet.\n\n\nInformation related with National Company Law Tribunal and National Company Law Tribunal Appellate by \"M.S Bhandari\""}
{"id": "29837211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29837211", "title": "Brighton Hippodrome", "text": "Brighton Hippodrome\n\nBrighton Hippodrome is an entertainment venue in the ancient centre of Brighton, part of the English city of Brighton and Hove. It has been empty and out of use since 2007, when its use as a bingo hall ceased.\n\nFrom its construction in 1897 it has hosted an ice rink, circus acts, variety theatre, vaudeville shows and bands such as The Beatles and The Rolling Stones. The flamboyantly decorated interior, with a large auditorium and Rococo embellishments, survives despite the frequent alterations; but in July 2010 its owner announced that it would cost £9 million to restore the building and convert it into a live music venue, and a charitable trust expressed concern over its future. Since 2011, several plans have been submitted to convert the building for alternative uses. English Heritage has listed the building at Grade II* for its architectural and historical importance.\n\nBy the end of the 19th century, Brighton had been a fashionable and thriving seaside resort, which had experienced rapid growth, for more than 100 years. It developed around the medieval fishing village of Brighthelmstone—a grid of streets running inland from the sea, intercut with narrow twittens. Middle Street, the most important and central of these streets, was built up from the 16th century, and was lined with houses both large and small, inns, the town's oldest school and a richly decorated synagogue.\n\nLand on the east side of the street was chosen as the site of the Real Ice Skating Rink in 1897. It was designed by the architect Lewis Karslake and had a long stuccoed façade with short towers at each end. The venture was unsuccessful, as ice-skating did not gain popularity; and in 1900, the owners converted the venue into a circus. Frank Matcham, a prolific theatre architect, was engaged to enlarge and rebuild the interior. The building was renamed \"The Hippodrome\" and reopened in its new form in 1901. The following year the circus failed and the site was auctioned. It was bought by theatre entrepreneur Thomas Barrasford who modified the auditorium, replacing the circus ring with seating, and on 22 December 1902 the Hippodrome reopened as a variety theatre.\n\nBarrasford died at the venue in February 1910 and the Hippodrome was sold to the Variety Theatres Controlling Company (VTCC). It quickly became Brighton's most important variety theatre. Shows of all types were staged there, and top-name entertainers such as Harry Houdini, W C Fields, Lillie Langtry, Sarah Bernhardt, Gracie Fields, Laurel and Hardy and Sammy Davis, Jr. appeared. Laurence Olivier made his professional stage début—but fell over on his first entrance. One of Charlie Chaplin's first roles was a bit-part in theatre impresario Fred Karno's comedy \"Saturday to Monday\", staged in May 1907; and Vivien Leigh gave an acclaimed performance in George Bernard Shaw's play \"The Doctor's Dilemma\" in January 1942. Local stars also featured: Max Miller, the Brighton-born music hall entertainer and comedian, appeared on many occasions between 1928 and 1960; and conjoined twins Daisy and Violet Hilton, whose vaudeville career began in their home town in 1911 at the age of three, topped the bill with their variety show.\n\nThe venue's early success led to expansion. In 1919 the lower floors of the two houses on the north side, known as Hippodrome House since Barrasford made his home there in 1902, was converted into a Palm Court for teas and dances. Its maximum capacity may have been up to 3,000 although an attendance of 4,500 was recorded on one occasion. Further changes of ownership in 1928 and 1932 made the Hippodrome part of the Moss Empires circuit.\n\nAfter World War II, the popularity of variety theatre waned, and the new practice of centralised booking of productions by an agency in London meant that the tastes of Brighton audiences were not specifically catered for: the venue typically received shows that had toured around the country and had no local connection. The Hippodrome accordingly hosted concerts and other large-scale events: concerts by The Beatles (part of their 1964 World Tour) and The Rolling Stones (on their 4th British Tour 1964) in October 1964. This could not stop the decline, though, and on 22 November 1964 the theatre was closed. Brighton Corporation considered acquisition but the idea lapsed. In 1966 it was converted into a short-lived television and film studio. In 1967, it was turned into a Mecca Bingo hall; the conversion work included the insertion of a raised floor above the stage and through the proscenium arch. Mecca was bought by the Rank Organisation in 1990.\nRepairs were carried out on the coloured glass awnings above the entrance in the early 1990s. The building closed as a bingo hall in August 2006 and is still empty as of 2018. In 2003, property investment firm London Merchant Securities (later called Cheval Properties) bought it and leased it to Academy Music Group (AMG), who planned to work with events company Live Nation to establish a live music venue in it. In July 2010, AMG announced that this would probably cost at least £9 million: suitable soundproofing in the narrow, partly residential street would cost about £3 million, and the deteriorating structural condition meant repair work would be difficult and expensive. Initial analysis work cost £ million. The Theatres Trust, the statutory advisory body on theatre conservation, placed the Hippodrome on its register of \"buildings requiring special attention\" in 2009; on a list of 82 theatres in Britain, it was placed in the top ten at highest risk. It was number one on the list in 2013 and the following three years.\n\nBrighton and Hove City Council stated in October 2011 that AMG had met officers from the licensing and planning departments in an attempt to move the situation forward. Four months later, Live Nation announced its intention to seek planning permission to convert the building into \"one of the city’s main live music venues\", at an estimated cost of £9 million. By this time the company had spent at least £100,000 on structural and other surveys. Nothing came of these plans, though, and in February 2013 another group—Alaska Development Consultants—unveiled an £18 million plan to turn the Hippodrome into an eight-screen cinema. Five new shops and a public square would be part of the plans, and the building would be connected to an adjacent shopping arcade. Local firm Russ Drage Architects drew up the plans. A local and national campaign, preferring the building to be used for live theatre or similar events, protested against the plans; but by January 2014 Alaska Development Consultants' proposals had evolved into a £35 million scheme including a restaurant on a removable floor above the auditorium. English Heritage announced their support for these plans in April 2014, and in November 2014 the city council's planning department gave final approval. The site, together with the contiguous Dukes Lane shopping street, was immediately put on the market. In April 2015, AMG acquired the freehold and offered campaigners a six-month moratorium to develop plans for restoration. Work to achieve restoration continues.\n\nUnder the name \"Mecca Bingo, 52–58 Middle Street\", the building was listed at Grade II* on 20 December 1985; such buildings are defined as being \"particularly important ... [and] of more than special interest\". As of February 2001, it was one of 70 Grade II*-listed buildings and structures, and 1,218 listed buildings of all grades, in the city of Brighton and Hove.\n\nThe exterior of the former Hippodrome is in three parts and is stuccoed, but there is apparently brickwork, terracotta and stone underneath. The original (1897) section is symmetrical, but the extension northwards in 1939 took in two houses which make the composition unbalanced. The central section has a stepped pediment above a dentil cornice and a rectangular panel with the letters projecting. Below this, a three-part awning projects as a lean-to, forming a low roof. This obscures the centre bay, which has three arches with entrances below. The middle entrance has a porch flanked by fluted pilasters and topped by an entablature with a pulvinated (convex) frieze. The arch has a decorative archivolt. Between the porch and the two plain outer entrances in the centre bay are single straight-headed windows divided into two lights by a single mullion.\n\nA pair of short towers stand alongside the centre bay. They each have a simple straight-headed entrance with pilasters, a cornice and a pediment at ground-floor level, and two more windows and a door above. A wide dentil cornice runs around each tower, and on the inside an extra section projects inwards and upwards beyond the cornice line. Elaborate single-storey entrance bays flank the towers, with chamfered arches, ornate mouldings, Ionic columns and a cornice. Above the frieze is a scroll-moulded cartouche which is framed by the upper sections of the columns.\n\nInside, much of Frank Matcham's original work remains, and the design is considered to be one of his finest and to display \"his hallmark decorative richness\". A narrow foyer leads to an auditorium shaped like a horseshoe, with seats arranged in a circle around it and in front of the stage. Above this is a proscenium arch featuring elaborate Rococo-style moulded plasterwork showing dolphins and female figures, and with egg-and-dart decoration to the architrave. Above the auditorium is an intricately patterned dome, and there are Indo-Saracenic-style onion domes on top of the two-part stage-boxes—evoking the style of the nearby Royal Pavilion. The stage and proscenium arch are now partly obscured by the new floor inserted in 1967. More Rococo decoration is found on the panelled segmented ceiling, from which a large lantern also hangs. The newer rooms on the northern side, all decorated in an elaborate Middle Eastern style, include a conservatory and bars.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58018766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58018766", "title": "CERN ritual hoax", "text": "CERN ritual hoax\n\nThe CERN ritual is a video that depicts an alleged occult ritual occurring in the grounds of CERN, a European particle physics research organization. The video shows several people dressed in black cloaks surrounding a statue of the Hindu deity Shiva and apparently stabbing a woman in a mock human sacrifice. The video ended with the person filming crying out and running away.\n\nThe video went viral in August 2016 in mockery of the many conspiracy theories concerning CERN. CERN later stated in its FAQ that the video was \"fiction\" and the actions violated its professional guidelines, as would indeed a real ritual sacrifice.\n\nA CERN spokesperson stated that the video was a hoax and that no one was actually harmed. The enactment was performed without any official permission. CERN stated that it \"doesn't tolerate this kind of spoof\" and that it can \"give rise to misunderstandings about the scientific nature of our work”.\n\nThe video caused controversy both by creating mockery of existing theories and by fueling existing conspiracy theories about CERN activities. Given that the ritual was performed in front of a statue of a deity, some believed the ritual was satanic in nature. This further fueled theories that CERN's goal was to use their Large Hadron Collider to create a portal to hell, summon the antichrist, or resurrect the ancient gods.\n"}
{"id": "52544135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52544135", "title": "Cable 1971", "text": "Cable 1971\n\nCable 1971, otherwise known as Priority Signal or File 1971 was a high profile and secret military signal communicated between the two main inter-services branches of Pakistan–the Pakistan Army and the Pakistan Navy. The military cable was directed through the Naval Intelligence and Military Intelligence to ISI sent on December 1952 to its headquarter.\n\nThe cable came in the wake of reactionary of Basic Principles Committee's first report towards the writing of the first set of the Constitution of Pakistan. The cable was sent by then-Commodore S.M. Ahsan to DG ISI Major-General R. Cawthome on a file coincidentally numbered 1971. The cable discussed the implication of One Unit, religious fanaticism, and the economic parity between the West and East Pakistan that will ultimately result in the division of Pakistan into two different groups.\n\nThe Cable's message read as:\n\nThe cable's message was further extended and discussed at the Army GHQ by MI's officer Major KM Arif when he compiled an \"Intelligence Report No. 7894 of the Office of Intelligence Research and Analysis\" in December 1970.\n\nThe cable is notable for its highlighted title and many historians found strange that the cable was coincidentally numbered: Cable/File 1971.\n"}
{"id": "19884971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19884971", "title": "Chandrayaan-2", "text": "Chandrayaan-2\n\nChandrayaan-2 ( ) is India's second lunar exploration mission after Chandrayaan-1. Developed by the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), the mission is planned to be launched to the Moon by a Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle Mark III (GSLV Mk III). It includes a lunar orbiter, lander and rover, all developed by India.\n\nChandrayaan-2 is scheduled to be launched no earlier than January 2019, and will attempt to soft land a lander and rover in a high plain between two craters, Manzinus C and Simpelius N, at a latitude of about 70° south. If successful, Chandrayaan-2 will be the first-ever mission to land a rover near the lunar south pole.\n\nAccording to ISRO, this mission will use and test various new technologies and conduct new experiments. The wheeled rover will move on the lunar surface and will perform on-site chemical analysis. The data will be relayed to Earth through the Chandrayaan-2 orbiter, which will piggyback on the same launch.\n\nOn 12 November 2007, representatives of the Russian Federal Space Agency (Roscosmos) and ISRO signed an agreement for the two agencies to work together on the Chandrayaan-2 project. ISRO would have the prime responsibility for the orbiter and rover, while Roscosmos was to provide the lander.\n\nThe Indian government approved the mission in a meeting of the Union Cabinet, held on 18 September 2008 and chaired by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. The design of the spacecraft was completed in August 2009, with scientists of both countries conducting a joint review.\n\nAlthough ISRO finalized the payload for Chandrayaan-2 per schedule, the mission was postponed in January 2013 and rescheduled to 2016 because Russia was unable to develop the lander on time. Roscosmos later withdrew in wake of the failure of the Fobos-Grunt mission to Mars, the reason being that technical aspects connected with the Fobos-Grunt mission were also used in the lunar projects, which need to be reviewed. When Russia cited its inability to provide the lander even by 2015, India decided to develop the lunar mission independently.\n\nThe spacecraft's launch had been scheduled for March 2018, but was first delayed to April and then to October to conduct further tests on the vehicle. On 19 June 2018, after the program's fourth Comprehensive Technical Review meeting, a number of changes in configuration and landing sequence were planned for implementation, pushing the scheduled launch to no earlier than 3 January 2019.\n\nThe mission is planned to fly on a Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle Mark III (GSLV Mk III) with an approximate lift-off mass of from Satish Dhawan Space Centre on Sriharikota Island. , the mission has an allocated cost of 800 crore (approximately ).\n\nThe orbiter will orbit the Moon at an altitude of . The mission will carry five instruments on the orbiter. Three of them are new, while two others are improved versions of those flown on Chandrayaan-1. The approximate launch mass will be . The Orbiter High Resolution Camera (OHRC) will conduct high-resolution observations of the landing site prior to separation of the lander from the orbiter. Interfaces between the orbiter and its GSLV Mk II launch vehicle have been finalised. The orbiter's structure was manufactured by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited and delivered to ISRO Satellite Centre on 22 June 2015.\n\nThe mission's lander is called \"Vikram\", named after Vikram Sarabhai (1919-1971) who is widely regarded as the father of the Indian space programme.\n\nThe \"Vikram\" lander will detach from the orbiter and descend to a lunar orbit of using its liquid main engines. It will then perform a comprehensive check of all its on-board systems before attempting to land on the lunar surface. Unlike Chandrayaan-1's Moon Impact Probe, the \"Vikram\" lander will make a soft landing, deploy the rover, and perform some scientific activities for approximately 15 days. The approximate combined mass of the lander and rover is . The preliminary configuration study of the lander was completed in 2013 by the Space Applications Centre (SAC) in Ahmedabad.\n\nThe lander's propulsion system consists of eight thrusters for attitude control and five liquid main engines derived from ISRO's Liquid Apogee Motor. Initially, the lander design employed four main liquid engines, but a centrally mounted engine was added to handle new requirements of having to orbit the Moon before landing. The additional engine is expected to mitigate upward draft of lunar dust during the soft landing.\n\nSome associated technologies include a high resolution camera, navigation camera, hazard avoidance camera, an 800 N throttleable liquid main engine and attitude thrusters, altimeter, velocity meter, accelerometer, and the software needed to run these components. The lander's main engine has successfully undergone a high altitude test for a duration of 513 seconds, and closed loop verification tests of the sensors, actuators and software were completed in 2016. Engineering models of the lander began undergoing ground and aerial tests in late October 2016, in Challakere in the Chitradurga district of Karnataka. ISRO created roughly 10 craters on the surface to help assess the ability of the lander's sensors to select a landing site.\n\nThe rover's mass will be about and will operate on solar power. The rover will move on 6 wheels on the lunar surface, perform on-site chemical analysis and send the data to the orbiter above, which will relay it to the Earth station.\n\nThe initial plan was for the rover to be designed in Russia and fabricated in India. However, after Russia proved unable to contribute to the mission, ISRO decided on designing and fabricating the rover itself. IIT Kanpur is developing three subsystems to provide mobility:\n\nISRO selected five scientific instruments for the orbiter, four for the lander, and two for the rover. While it was initially reported that NASA and ESA would participate in the mission by providing some scientific instruments for the orbiter, ISRO has later clarified that due to weight restrictions it will not be carrying foreign payloads on this mission.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44659342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44659342", "title": "Collins &amp; Milazzo Exhibitions", "text": "Collins &amp; Milazzo Exhibitions\n\nThe Collins & Milazzo Exhibitions were a series of art exhibitions curated by the team Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo mainly in New York in the 1980s. They also were co-editors and co-publishers of the art theory magazine .\n\nIn 1984, Collins & Milazzo began working together as curators to transform the group show into a critical statement. Collins & Milazzo brought to prominence a new generation of artists in the 1980s. It was their exhibitions and writings that originally fashioned the theoretical context for a new kind of Post-conceptual art that argued simultaneously against Neo-Expressionism and Picture-Theory Art. It was through this context that the work of many of the artists associated with Neo-Conceptualism (or what the critics reductively called \"Simulationism\" and \"Neo Geo\") was first brought together.\n\n1. \"Civilization and the Landscape of Discontent.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Gallery Nature Morte, New York, March 1984. Text by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo. Artists: Stephen Aljian, Ross Bleckner, Stephan Gantenbein, Mark Innerst, Peter Nadin, Louis Renzoni, Susan Beschta-Springfield, James Welling, Michael Zwack.\n2. \"Still Life With Transaction: Former Objects, New Moral Arrangements, and the History of Surfaces.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, International With Monument Gallery, New York, March 28 - April 21, 1984. Text by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo. Artists: Alice Albert, Ericka Beckman, Alan Belcher, Ross Bleckner, Barry Bridgwood, Sarah Charlesworth, Wendy Galavitz, Judy Geib, Jim Jacobs, Stephen Lack, Kevin Larmon, Andrew Masullo, Peter McCaffrey, Jan Mohlman, Peter Nadin, Peter Nagy, Joel Otterson, Richard Prince, Steven Parrino, Tyler Turkle, Laurie Simmons.\n\n3. \"Natural Genre: From the Neutral Subject to the Hypothesis of World Objects.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Florida State University Gallery & Museum, Tall., Fla., Aug. 31-Sept. 30, 1984. Color catalogue with text by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo. Artists: Jane Bauman, Ericka Beckman, Alan Belcher, Gretchen Bender, Ross Bleckner, Tom Brazleton, Barry Bridgwood, Sarah Charlesworth, Carroll Dunham, Robert Garratt, Mark Innerst, Kevin Larmon, Louise Lawler, Allan McCollum, Peter Nadin, Peter Nagy, Joseph Nechvatal, Steven Parrino, Louis Renzoni, Meyer Vaisman, Oliver Wasow, James Welling, David Wojnarowicz, Michael Zwack.\n\n4. \"Still Life With Transaction II: Former Objects, New Moral Arrangements, and the History of Surfaces.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Galerie Jurka, Amsterdam, November 1984. Text by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo. Artists: Alice Albert, Ericka Beckman, Alan Belcher, Ross Bleckner, Barry Bridgwood, Sarah Charlesworth, Wendy Galavitz, Judy Geib, Jim Jacobs, Stephen Lack, Kevin Larmon, Peter McCaffrey, Peter Nadin, Peter Nagy, Joel Otterson, Richard Prince, Laurie Simmons, Tyler Turkle, Meyer Vaisman, Oliver Wasow.\n\n5. \"The New Capital.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, White Columns, New York, December 4, 1984 - January 5, 1985. Text by Tricia Collins & Richard Milazzo. Artists: Vikky Alexander, Jane Bauman, Alan Belcher, Gretchen Bender, Barry Bridgwood, Sarah Charlesworth, Peter Halley, Jeff Koons, Daniel Levine, Frank Majore, Peter Nagy, Joseph Nechvatal, David Robbins, Tyler Turkle, Meyer Vaisman, Oliver Wasow.\n\n6. \"Final Love.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, C.A.S.H./Newhouse Gallery, New York, March 15 - April 14, 1985. Text by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo. Artists: Ross Bleckner, Peter Halley, Kevin Larmon, Jonathan Lasker, Allan McCollum, Olivier Mosset, Peter Nadin, Bonnie Nielson, Meyer Vaisman, Wallace & Donohue, James Welling, Stephen Westfall.\n\n7. \"Paravision.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Postmasters Gallery, New York, May 3 - June 2, 1985. Text by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo. Artists: Jane Bauman, Alan Belcher, Gretchen Bender, Ross Bleckner, Barry Bridgwood, Peter Halley, Jeff Koons, Jonathan Lasker, Robert Longo, Richard Milani, Olivier Mosset, Ricardo Regazzoni, David Robbins, Gary Stephan, Philip Taaffe, Meyer Vaisman, Wallace & Donohue\n\n8. \"Persona Non Grata.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Daniel Newburg Gallery, New York, September 11 - October 5, 1985. Text by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo. Artists: Vikky Alexander, Ellen Carey, Stephen Lack, Vera Lehndorff & Holger Trülzsch, Allan McCollum]] & Laurie Simmons, Richard Milani, Peter Nadin, Richard Prince, David Robbins, Walter Robinson, Brigitta Rohrbach, Julie Wachtel, Michael Zwack.\n\n9. \"Cult and Decorum.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Tibor De Nagy Gallery, New York, December 7, 1985 - January 4, 1986. Text by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo. Artists: Ross Bleckner, Sarah Charlesworth, David Diao, Peter Halley, Jeff Koons, Kevin Larmon, Jonathan Lasker, Peter Nadin, Joel Otterson, Ricardo Regazzoni, Robin Rose, Laurie Simmons, Haim Steinbach, Gary Stephan, Philip Taaffe, Meyer Vaisman, Not Vital.\n\n10. \"Time After Time (A Sculpture Show).\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Diane Brown Gallery, New York, March 8 - April 2, 1986. Text by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo. Artists: Edward Allington, Gretchen Bender, Don Bonham, Barry Bridgwood, Saint Clair Cemin, Maureen Connor, Joel Fisher, Kenji Fujita, James Hill, Richard Jarden, Jeff Koons, Annette Lemieux, Erik Levine, Allan McCollum, Joseph Nechvatal, John Newman, Alastair Noble, Joel Otterson, Ricardo Regazzoni, Haim Steinbach, Gary Stephan, Not Vital, Michael Zwack.\n\n11. \"Spiritual America.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, CEPA, Buffalo, May 3 - June 15, 1986. Catalogue with text by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo. Artists: Jane Bauman, Gretchen Bender, Barry Bridgwood, Calvin Brown, David Cabrera, Sarah Charlesworth, Peter Coates & Nancy Dwyer, Michael Corris, Dorit Cypis, David Diao, Lea Douglas, Sarah Drury, Daniel Faust, Diana Formasano, Peter Halley, James Hill, Peter Hopkins, Sara Hornbacher, Mark Innerst, Jeff Koons, Liz Koury, Annette Lemieux, Allan McCollum, Steve Miller, Robert Morgan, Peter Nagy, Joseph Nechvatal, Bonnie Nielson, Anna Oberto, David Reisman, Jim Rodgers, Kay Rosen, Tad Savinar, John Schlessinger, Tyler Turkle, Wallace & Donohue, Robin Weglinski.\n\n12. \"Paravision II.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Margo Leavin Gallery, Los Angeles, July 12 - August 23, 1986. Text by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo. Artists: Gretchen Bender, Ross Bleckner, Barry Bridgwood, Calvin Brown, Sarah Charlesworth, Charles Clough, David Diao, Carroll Dunham, Peter Halley, Peter Hopkins, Barbara Kruger, Jonathan Lasker, Robert Longo, Richard Milani, Olivier Mosset, Peter Nagy, Joel Otterson, Walter Robinson, Brigitta Rohrbach, Haim Steinbach, Gary Stephan, Philip Taaffe, Meyer Vaisman, Wallace & Donohue, James Welling.\n\n13. \"Ultrasurd.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, S.L. Simpson Gallery, Toronto, September 1986. Catalogue with text by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo. Artists: Saint Clair Cemin, Sarah Charlesworth, Abraham David Christian, Charles Clough, David Diao, Barbara Ess, Joel Fisher, Peter Hopkins, Suzanne Joelson, Annette Lemieux, Olivier Mosset, Allan McCollum, Peter Nagy, Lucio Pozzi, Walter Robinson, Robin Rose, Tyler Turkle, Julie Wachtel, Oliver Wasow.\n\n14. \"Modern Sleep.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, American Fine Arts Co., New York, October 17 - November 16, 1986. Brochure with text by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo. Artists: Saint Clair Cemin, John Dogg, Tishan Hsu, Kevin Larmon, Jonathan Lasker, Annette Lemieux, Olivier Mosset, Joel Otterson, Jeffrey Plate.\n\n15. \"The Antique Future.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Massimo Audiello Gallery, New York, February 13 - March 15, 1987. Brochure with text by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo. Artists: Edward Allington, Ross Bleckner, Saint Clair Cemin, Abraham David Christian, Tishan Hsu, Annette Lemieux, Lucio Pozzi, Sal Scarpitta, Mike and Doug Starn, Gary Stephan, Not Vital.\n\n16. \"Extreme Order.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Lia Rumma Gallery, Naples, May - July 1987. Brochure with text by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo. Artists: Saint Clair Cemin, Robert Gober, Peter Halley, Annette Lemieux, Haim Steinbach.\n\n17. \"The Ironic Sublime.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Galerie Albrecht, Munich, June 4 - July 18, 1987. Catalogue with text by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo. Artists: Ross Bleckner, Saint Clair Cemin, Abraham David Christian, Suzan Etkin, Joel Fisher, Tishan Hsu, Allan McCollum, Gary Stephan, Joel Otterson, James Welling.\n\n18. \"The New Poverty.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo. Catalogue with text by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo, John Gibson Gallery, New York, October 10 - November 7, 1987. Artists: Ford Beckman, David Cabrera, Saint Clair Cemin, Abraham David Christian, John Dogg, Suzan Etkin, Peter Fend, Joel Fisher, Ronald Jones, Ange Leccia, Joel Otterson, Lucio Pozzi, Holt Quentel, Sal Scarpitta, Not Vital, Meg Webster, Michael Zwack.\n\n19. \"Media Post Media.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Scott Hanson Gallery, New York, January 6 - February 9, 1988. Color catalogue with text by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo. Artists: Vikky Alexander, Gretchen Bender, Sarah Charlesworth, Colette, Nancy Dwyer, Barbara Ess, Suzan Etkin, Jenny Holzer, Barbara Kruger, Annette Lemieux, Sherrie Levine, Holt Quentel, Nancy Shaver, Cindy Sherman, Laurie Simmons, Karen Sylvester, Rosemarie Trockel, Julie Wachtel, Meg Webster.\n\n20. \"A Deer Manger, A Dress Pattern, Farthest Sea Water, and a Signature.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, 303 Gallery, New York, February 18 - March 13, 1988. Brochure with text by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo. Artists: David Carrino, Suzan Etkin, Sal Scarpitta, Meg Webster\n\n21. \"Off White.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Diane Brown Gallery, New York, May 24 - June 18, 1988. Brochure with text by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo. Artists: Ford Beckman, David Carrino, Lawrence Carroll, Saint Clair Cemin, Abraham David Christian, Suzan Etkin, Andrew Lord, Holt Quentel, Sal Scarpitta, Not Vital\n\n22. \"Art at the End of the Social.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, The Rooseum, Malmö, Sweden, July - October 1988. Color catalogue with text by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo. Artists: Donald Baechler, Ford Beckman, Gretchen Bender, Ross Bleckner, David Carrino, Lawrence Carroll, Saint Clair Cemin, Sarah Charlesworth, Charles Clough, David Diao, John Dogg, Suzan Etkin, Peter Fend, Robert Gober,Peter Halley, Claudia Hart, Tishan Hsu, Jon Kessler, Jeff Koons, Kevin Larmon, Jonathan Lasker, Annette Lemieux, Allan McCollum, Peter Nadin, Peter Nagy, Joseph Nechvatal, Joel Otterson, Richard Prince, Holt Quentel, Sal Scarpitta, Nancy Shaver, Haim Steinbach, Gary Stephan, Philip Taaffe, Tyler Turkle, Meg Webster, James Welling\n\n23. \"Hybrid Neutral: Modes of Abstraction and the Social.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, I.C.I. Exhibition: University Art Gallery, The University of North Texas, Denton, Texas, August 29 - September 30, 1988; J.B. Speed Art Museum, Louisville, Kentucky, November 7, 1988 - January 2, 1989; Alberta College Gallery of Art, Calgary, Alberta, Canada, February 9 - March 9, 1989; The Contemporary Arts Center, Cincinnati, Ohio, March 31 - May 6, 1989; Richard F. Brush Art Gallery, St. Lawrence University, Canton, New York, October 12 - November 15, 1989; Santa Fe Community College Art Gallery & Museum, Gainesville, Florida, February 4 - March 18, 1990; Mendel Art Gallery & Museum, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada, July 1990. Catalogue with texts by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo, and Gary Indiana. Artists: Vikky Alexander, John Armleder, Gretchen Bender, Ross Bleckner, Saint Clair Cemin, Sarah Charlesworth, David Diao, Robert Gober, Peter Halley, Tishan Hsu, Jeff Koons, Jonathan Lasker, Annette Lemieux, Allan McCollum, Peter Nagy, Joel Otterson, Haim Steinbach, Gary Stephan, Philip Taaffe, Meyer Vaisman, James Welling\n\n24. \"Primary Forms, Mediated Structures.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Massimo Audiello Gallery, New York, September - October 1988. Catalogue with text by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo. Artists: Saint Clair Cemin, Joel Fisher, Jon Kessler, Joel Otterson.\n\n25. \"The New Poverty II.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Meyers/Bloom Gallery, Santa Monica, California, December 3, 1988 - January 8, 1989. Brochure with text by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo. Artists: Ford Beckham, Eberhard Bosslet, Lawrence Carroll, David Carrino, Saint Clair Cemin, Abraham David Christian, Suzan Etkin, Peter Fend, Gloria Friedmann, Erik Levine, Andrew Lord, Vik Muniz, Holt Quentel, Sal Scarpitta, Nancy Shaver, Not Vital, Meg Webster, Michael Zwack.\n\n26. \"Pre-Pop Post-Appropriation.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Stux Gallery, in cooperation with Leo Castelli, New York, February 3 - March 4, 1989. Catalogue with text by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo. Artists: Doug Anderson, Ross Bleckner, Lawrence Carroll, David Carrino, Suzan Etkin, Robert Gober, Jasper Johns, Annette Lemieux, Holt Quentel, Robert Rauschenberg, Sal Scarpitta, Nancy Shaver, Mike and Doug Starn, Meg Webster.\n\n27. \"Buena Vista.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, John Gibson Gallery, New York, October 14 - November 11, 1989. Catalogue with text by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo. Artists: William Anastasi, Ford Beckman, Bernd and Hilla Becher, Sophie Calle, Suzan Etkin, Peter Halley, Peter Hopkins, Allan McCollum, Vik Muniz, Wolfgang Robbe, Sal Scarpitta, Nancy Shaver, Tyler Turkle, Meg Webster.\n\n28. \"The Last Laugh: Irony, Humor, Self-Mockery and Derision.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Massimo Audiello Gallery, New York, January 6 - February 17, 1990. Text by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo. Artists: Donald Baechler, John Baldessari, Saint Clair Cemin, Billy Copley, Deborah Kass, Jeff Koons, Cary Leibowitz, Roy Lichtenstein, Vik Muniz, Richard Prince, Ad Reinhardt, Allen Ruppersberg, Tyler Turkle, Julie Wachtel, Andy Warhol.\n\n29. \"A Curatorial Project: Ford Beckham (One-Person Exhibition) and Meg Webster (Projects Room).\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Scott Hanson Gallery, New York, January 1990. Catalogues with texts by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo.\n\n30. \"A Curatorial Project: Sal Scarpitta (One-Person Exhibition), Robert Rauschenberg (Projects Room) and Change Inc. Benefit.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Scott Hanson Gallery, New York, February 1990. Catalogues with texts by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo.\n\n31. \"A Curatorial Project: Token Gestures (A Painting Show) and Charles Clough (Projects Room).\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Scott Hanson Gallery, New York, March 1990. Catalogues with texts by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo. Artists: Ross Bleckner, Charles Clough, Stephen Ellis, Nicholas Howey, Richard Kalina, Jonathan Lasker, Sigmar Polke, Lucio Pozzi, Robert Rauschenberg, David Reed, Gerhard Richter, Julian Schnabel, Frank Stella, Gary Stephan, Taro Suzuki, Cy Twombly, Jeffrey Wasserman.\n\n32. \"The Last Decade: American Artists of the ’80s.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Tony Shafrazi Gallery, New York, September 15 - October 27, 1990. Color catalogue with texts by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo, and Robert Pincus-Witten, with photographic portraits of the artists by Timothy Greenfield-Sanders. Artists: Donald Baechler, Jean-Michel Basquiat, Ashley Bickerton, Mike Bidlo, Ross Bleckner, James Brown, Saint Clair Cemin, George Condo, Carroll Dunham, Eric Fischl, Jedd Garet, Robert Gober, Peter Halley, Keith Haring, Mark Innerst, Jeff Koons, Barbara Kruger, Jonathan Lasker, Annette Lemieux, Sherrie Levine, Robert Mapplethorpe, Allan McCollum, Richard Prince, David Salle, Kenny Scharf, Julian Schnabel, Doug and Mike Starn, Haim Steinbach, Gary Stephan, Philip Taaffe, Mark Tansey, Meyer Vaisman, Meg Webster, Terry Winters, David Wojnarowicz.\n\n33. \"Sal Scarpitta: Race Car on Idaho Potato Track (An Installation).\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Greenberg/Wilson Gallery, in cooperation with Leo Castelli, New York, September 9 - October 20, 1990. Broadside with text by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo.\n\n34. \"All Quiet on the Western Front? [75 Americans in Paris].\" Curated by Antoine Candau and Gerard Delsol, in collaboration with Collins & Milazzo, Espace Dieu 17, rue Dieu, Paris, France September 26 - December 31, 1990.\n\n35. \"Who Framed Modern Art or the Quantitative Life of Roger Rabbit.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Sidney Janis Gallery, New York, January 10 - February 16, 1991. Color catalogue with text by Richard Milazzo. Artists: Josef Albers, Arman, Jean Arp, Giacomo Balla, Ford Beckman, Ross Bleckner, Constantin Brâncuși, Charles Clough, Willem de Kooning, Jean Dubuffet, Marcel Duchamp, Stephen Ellis, Alberto Giacometti, Peter Halley, Eva Hesse, Hans Hofmann, Valerie Jaudon, Jasper Johns, Donald Judd, Ellsworth Kelly, Yves Klein, Jeff Koons, Joseph Kosuth, Fernand Léger, Annette Lemieux, Sherrie Levine, Roy Lichtenstein, Sol Lewitt, Kasimir Malevich, Piet Mondrian, Peter Nagy, Louise Nevelson, Georgia O'Keeffe, Pablo Picasso, Jackson Pollock, Fiona Rae, Robert Rauschenberg, Man Ray, Ad Reinhardt, Kurt Schwitters, George Segal, Mike and Doug Starn, Frank Stella, Philip Taaffe, Andy Warhol, Tom Wesselmann.\n\n36. \"Outside America: Going into the 90’s.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Fay Gold Gallery, Atlanta, Georgia, March - April 1991. Catalogue with text by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo. Artists: Ford Beckman, David Carrino, Charles Clough, Billy Copley, Lydia Dona, Stephen Ellis, Suzan Etkin, James Hill, Nancy M. Hoffman, George Horner, Nicholas Howey, Cary S. Leibowitz, Richard Kalina, Dean McNeil, Curtis Mitchell, Vik Muniz, Joseph Nechvatal, Thomas Nozkowski, Dennis Oppenheim, Richard Pettibone, Holt Quentel, Robert Rauschenberg, Hunter Reynolds, Nicholas Rule, Allen Ruppersberg, Frank Schroder, Lorna Simpson, Cary Smith, Buzz Spector, Jessica Stockholder, Taro Suzuki, Tyler Turkle, Jeffrey Wasserman, Robin Winters.\n\n37. \"A New Low.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Claudio Botello Gallery, Turin, Italy, May 9 - June 15, 1991. Color catalogue with text by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo. Artists: Renato Alpegiani, Luigi Antinucci, Billy Copley, Fischli & Weiss, Renato Ghiazza, James Hill, George Horner, Nicholas Howey, Cary S. Leibowitz, Vik Muniz, GianCarlo Pagliasso, Kay Rosen, Tyler Turkle.\n\n38. \"New Era Space.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, New Era Building, sponsored by Leo Castelli, New York, October 3–28, 1991. For text, see Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo, M/E/A/N/I/N/G, No. 11 (May 1992: 28-37). Artists: James Hill, Harland Miller, Donna Moylan, Jeffrey Plate, Adam Rolston\n\n39. \"New Era Space.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, New Era Building, sponsored by Leo Castelli, New York, November 1–23, 1991. For text, see Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo, M/E/A/N/I/N/G, No. 11 (May 1992: 28-37). Artists: Robert Beck and Jeff Litchfield, Billy Copley, Joo Chung, Nancy M. Hoffman, Nicholas Howey.\n\n40. \"New Era Space.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, New Era Building, sponsored by Leo Castelli, New York, Nov. 26 - December 21, 1991. For text, see Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo, M/E/A/N/I/N/G, No. 11 (May 1992: 28-37). Artists: Robert Burke, Tony Feher, Fabian Marcaccio, Joan Snitzer, Tyler Turkle.\n\n41. \"Sal Scarpitta: New Works.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Annina Nosei Gallery, in cooperation with Leo Castelli, New York, February 7 - March 7, 1991. Color catalogue with texts by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo, and Thomas McEvilley and Giorgio Franchetti.\n\n42. \"Theoretically Yours.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Regione Autonoma della Valle d’Aosta, Chiesa di San Lorenzo, Aosta, Italy, May 29 - June 28, 1992. Color catalogue with portraits of the artists and texts by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo. Artists: Renato Alpegiani, Luigi Antinucci, John Armleder, Donald Baechler, Marco Bagnoli, Ford Beckman, Ross Bleckner, Saint Clair Cemin, Suzan Etkin, Renato Ghiazza, Peter Halley, Nicholas Howey, Jeff Koons, Jonathan Lasker, Cary S. Leibowitz, Annette Lemieux, Sherrie Levine, Fabian Marcaccio, Allan McCollum, Donna Moylan, Vik Muniz, GianCarlo Pagliasso, Maurizio Pellegrin, Stefano Peroli, Michaelangelo Pistoletto, Richard Prince, Pruitt-Early, Holt Quentel, Adam Rolston, Haim Steinbach, Philip Taaffe, Meg Webster\n\n43. \"Who’s Afraid of Duchamp, Minimalism, and Passport Photography?\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Annina Nosei Gallery, New York, October 1992. Catalogue with text by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo. Artists: Ford Beckham, Lawrence Carroll, Stephen Ellis, Suzan Etkin, Peter Halley, Nicholas Howey, James Hyde, Jonathan Lasker, Annette Lemieux, Fabian Marcaccio, Donna Moylan, Philip Taaffe.\n\n44. \"Needlepoint, Embroidery, Macrame, and Crochet.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Postmasters Gallery, New York, February 13 - March 13, 1993. Color catalogue with texts by Tricia Collins & Richard Milazzo. Artists: Renato Alpegiani, Devon Dikeou, Sylvie Fleury, Fabian Marcaccio, Donna Moylan, GianCarlo Pagliasso, Marianna Uutinen.\n\n45. \"Donna Moylan: Paintings.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Grand Salon, New York, March 13 - April 17, 1993.\n\n46. \"Meg Webster: Sculptures.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Grand Salon, New York, April 20 - May 15, 1993.\n\n47. \"Charles Clough: Paintings and Barry Bridgwood: Paintings (Projects Room).\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Grand Salon, New York, May 20 - June 19, 1993. Catalogue with text by Mary Haus.\n\n48. \"Elvis Has Left the Building (A Painting Show).\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, 521 West 23rd Street, sponsored by Sandro Chia, New York, May 26 - June 26, 1993. Catalogue with text by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo and a two-minute screenplay by Sandro Chia. Artists: Sergio Bazan, Barry Bridgwood, Robert Burke, Lawrence Carroll, Fabian Cereijido, Joo Chung, Charles Clough, Tomás Clusellas, Julia Condon, Lino Fiorito, Nicholas Howey, James Hyde, Marc Maz, Donna Moylan, Vik Muniz, Gian Carlo Pagliasso, Robin Tewes, Julian Trigo, Alessandro Twombly, Marianna Uutinen.\n\n49. \"Fabian Cereijido: Paintings.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Grand Salon, New York, June 24 - July 22, 1993.\n\n50. \"Julian Trigo: Paintings.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Grand Salon, New York, September 11 - October 9, 1993. Catalogue with text by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo.\n\n51. \"Vik Muniz: Photographs and Sculptures.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Grand Salon, New York, October 14 - November 13, 1993. Catalogue with text by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo.\n\n52. \"Claudia Zemborain: Paintings.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Grand Salon, New York, November 20 - December 18, 1993. Catalogue with text by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo.\n\n53. \"Sandro Chia: Small Bronze Sculptures.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Grand Salon, New York, January 8 - February 1994. Catalogue with text by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo.\n\n54. \"Tomás Clusellas: Paintings.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Grand Salon, New York, February 10 - March 5, 1994. Catalogue with texts by Pierre Restany and Fabian Cereijido.\n\n55. \"Alessandro Twombly: Paintings.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Grand Salon, New York, March 10 - April 9, 1994. Catalogue with text by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo.\n\n56. \"Lawrence Carroll: Paintings and David Carrino: Photographs (Projects Room).\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Grand Salon, New York, April 14 - May 14, 1994. Catalogue with text by Charles Riley.\n\n57. \"Peter Halley: Mono-Reliefs.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Grand Salon, New York, May 19- June 18, 1994. Catalogue with text by Peter Halley.\n\n58. \"A Fistful of Flowers.\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, Grand Salon, New York, June 23 - July 1994. Artists: Barry Bridgwood, Robert Burke, Fabian Cereijido, Charles Clough, Suzan Etkin, Rosario Guerrero, Pansy Merriweather, Donna Moylan, Vik Muniz, Mark Turgeon, Alessandro Twombly, Marianna Uutinen.\n\n59. \"Across the River and into the Trees (A Sculpture Show).\" Curated by Collins & Milazzo, The Rushmore Festival, Woodbury, New York, June 25 - July 10, 1994. Catalogue with text by Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo. Artists: Willard Boepple, Saint Clair Cemin, John Clement, Charles Clough, James Croak, Paul Dickerson, Devon Dikeou, Suzan Etkin, Joel Fisher, James Hyde, Alain Kirili, Charles Long, Vik Muniz, Dennis Oppenheim, Jeffrey Plate, Sal Scarpitta, Taro Suzuki, Not Vital, Meg Webster.\n"}
{"id": "762893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762893", "title": "Deadwood (TV series)", "text": "Deadwood (TV series)\n\nDeadwood is an American Western television series created, produced, and largely written by David Milch, that aired on the premium cable network HBO from March 21, 2004, to August 27, 2006, spanning 36 episodes and three seasons. The series, set in the 1870s in Deadwood, South Dakota, before and after the area's annexation by the Dakota Territory, charts Deadwood's growth from camp to town, incorporating themes including the formation of communities. The show features a large ensemble cast, and many historical figures appear as characters, such as Seth Bullock, George Crook, Wyatt Earp, E. B. Farnum, George Hearst, Wild Bill Hickok, Calamity Jane, Jack McCall, Sol Star, Al Swearengen, and Charlie Utter. The plot lines involving these characters include historical truths as well as substantial fictional elements. Milch used actual diaries and newspapers from 1870s Deadwood residents as reference points for characters, events, and the look and feel of the show. Some of the characters are fully fictional, although they may have been based on actual persons.\n\n\"Deadwood\" received wide critical acclaim, particularly for Milch's writing and Ian McShane's co-lead performance, and is now regarded as one of the greatest TV dramas of all time. It also won eight Emmy Awards (in 28 nominations) and one Golden Globe. \"TV Guide\" ranked it #8 on their 2013 list of 60 shows that were \"Cancelled Too Soon\". The show was produced by Red Board Productions and Roscoe Productions in association with HBO and Paramount Network Television.\n\nThere were initial plans to conclude the series with two TV films, but those plans never came to fruition. In 2015, talks resumed between HBO and Milch, and in January 2016, HBO greenlit a script to be written, which was completed by April 2017. In July 2018, it was confirmed that the film was officially greenlit by HBO and would begin production in October 2018. The film will be set ten years after the end of season 3 and is expected to premiere on HBO in spring 2019.\n\nThe first book that the show's creator, David Milch, purchased as research for the series was \"Deadwood: The Golden Years\" by Watson Parker, a historian who specialized in the history of the Black Hills. Milch and his colleagues later bought many of Parker's books and papers as references for \"Deadwood\".\n\nMilch has pointed out repeatedly in interviews that the intent of the show was to study the way that civilization comes together from chaos by organizing itself around symbols (in \"Deadwood\" the main symbol is gold). Initially, he intended to study this within Roman civilization (the central symbol was to be the religious cross), but HBO's \"Rome\" series was already in development and Milch was asked by the network if he could stage the story in another place. Although the series touches on a variety of issues including race, prostitution, misogyny, violence, politics, and immigration, most of the major story lines are grounded in this issue of bringing order from chaos.\n\nThe first season takes place in 1876, six months after the founding of the camp, soon after Custer's Last Stand. Seth Bullock leaves his job as a marshal in Montana to establish a hardware business in the gold-mining camp of Deadwood, along with his friend and business partner, Sol Star. Wild Bill Hickok, the infamous gunslinger of the west, is on a separate journey to Deadwood, accompanied by Charlie Utter and Calamity Jane. Al Swearengen is the owner of The Gem, a local saloon and brothel. Other notable residents include Dr. Amos Cochran; A. W. Merrick, owner and editor of the local newspaper \"The Pioneer\"; and E. B. Farnum, proprietor of The Grand Central Hotel. \n\nBullock encounters a man of an unknown name, who claims that Indians had killed an immigrant family along the road, and he and Hickok along with others ride out to investigate. Swearengen at his saloon offers bounties for Indian scalps, in apparent revenge for the murders, and discounts on booze and women. Bullock and Hickok investigate and find the wagon turned over and all but one of the immigrant family killed. Before sunrise they confront the unknown man and point to holes in his story, saying the raid appeared to be a setup by whites. When he draws his weapon both men draw in defense, and Hickok's bullet kills him. Swearengen wakes to hear of these new events as told by E.B. Farnum, and is particularly unhappy hearing that one of the immigrant party survived, suspecting that his road agents may have been responsible for the raid.\n\nBrom Garret, a wealthy businessman from New York City, lives at The Grand Central Hotel with his wife, Alma, who nurses a secret laudanum habit. Aware that Garret is interested in prospecting, Swearengen and Farnum deceive him into purchasing a gold claim in a confidence game. Newly arrived Cy Tolliver and his entourage purchase an abandoned hotel across from The Gem and begin renovations, then open the Bella Union Saloon, a luxurious gambling house and brothel. Brom Garret soon learns that his gold claim is worthless and demands Swearengen reimburse his money. Swearengen orders Dan Dority to kill Garret and \"make it look like an accident.\" Dority throws Garret off a cliff, only to discover that the claim is actually a rich one after all. Newly widowed Alma Garret asks Wild Bill Hickok for guidance regarding the gold claim and Swearengen's renewed interest. Hickok asks Bullock to advise Garret; Bullock agrees. Bullock suggests that Garret hire Whitney Ellsworth, a trustworthy and experienced prospector. Alma Garret takes custody of young Sofia Metz, whose family was murdered on the way back to Minnesota.\n\nDuring a poker game, Wild Bill Hickok is murdered by Jack McCall in Tom Nuttall's #10 Saloon. When McCall is put on trial, Swearengen leans on the acting magistrate, suggesting that McCall must be acquitted to avoid scrutiny from Washington, D.C. The judge cuts the trial short and the jury acquits McCall, who leaves town immediately after the verdict. Bullock pursues McCall, determined to bring him to justice. Bullock and Charlie Utter later find McCall hiding at a boarding house and take him to Yankton for trial.\n\nSmallpox spreads in Deadwood, creating an urgent need for vaccines. The afflicted are segregated from the main camp in plague tents. Calamity Jane aids Doctor Cochran in caring for the sick.\n\nThe senior members of the community form a municipal government to prepare for future annexation, as well as to bribe the territorial legislature, thereby ensuring the security of existing titles, claims and properties. Swearengen bribes local magistrate Clagett to quash a murder warrant.\n\nAlma's father Otis Russell arrives with plans to secure Alma's new-found wealth in order to pay off his endless debts and fulfill his own greed. The U.S. army arrives in Deadwood and a parade is organized. Bullock confronts a self-confident Otis Russell in The Bella Union. When Russell threatens the safety of his own daughter should Bullock stand in the way of his acquiring the gold claim, Seth unceremoniously beats him and orders Russell to leave the camp.\n\nThe increasingly addled Reverend Smith, dying from an apparent brain tumor, is smothered to death by Al Swearengen in a mercy killing. Tolliver attempts to bribe General Crook to leave a garrison in Deadwood but is indignantly refused. When Magistrate Clagett attempts to extort Swearengen further over the murder warrant, Swearengen responds by enlisting Clagett's \"toll collector,\" Silas Adams, to murder Clagett. Silas performs the deed and allies himself with Swearengen, becoming his agent. As Sheriff Con Stapleton has been compromised by Cy Tolliver, Bullock volunteers to become the new sheriff as the cavalry rides out of town.\n\nSeason two begins in 1877, seven months after the events of season 1, and the camp has become somewhat more orderly and civilized.\n\nWhen Swearengen publicly disparages Bullock's abilities as sheriff, intimating that Bullock's focus is not on his job due to his affair with Alma Garret, Bullock removes his gun and badge and Swearengen and Bullock fight, accidentally falling over the Gem balcony. Al is about to slit Bullock's throat in the muddy street, but stops after looking up to see Bullock's wife Martha and her son William arriving in camp. Bullock tells Alma they must either leave camp or stop seeing one another. Garret agrees that it is better to end the relationship and remain in town. Calamity Jane resurfaces and manages to support Bullock and Utter in persuading Swearengen to return Bullock's gun and badge. A truce is made. Garret discovers she is pregnant by Bullock and confides in Trixie, who persuades Ellsworth to make a marriage proposal to Garret and influences Garret to accept the proposal in order to save her the humiliation of unwed motherhood.\n\nSwearengen collapses in his office with the door locked. His concerned associates assume that he wants to be left alone, but as the day passes their alarm grows and they finally break into the office. Dr. Cochran diagnoses Al with kidney stones and performs a draining procedure. Swearengen eventually passes the stones, but has a small stroke in the process.\n\nJoanie Stubbs opens her own brothel, The Chez Amis, with her newly arrived partner Maddie. Francis Wolcott, a geologist working for George Hearst, arrives in Deadwood and soon makes his presence felt at the Chez Amis. Wolcott has paid for transportation of most of the prostitutes, in order to cater to his selective tastes. Cy Tolliver learns of Wolcott's sexual proclivities and baits him, resulting in Wolcott murdering Carrie and Doris, two of Joanie Stubb's prostitutes. When Maddie attempts to extort money from Wolcott, he kills her too. Cy Tolliver has the bodies removed and pardons Wolcott. Joanie sends the remaining girls away so that they will be safe from Wolcott. Joanie confides in Charlie Utter regarding the murders, extracting a promise that he never repeat the information.\n\nAlma fires Miss Isringhausen, Sophia's tutor. Isringhausen turns to Silas Adams under the pretext of fear for her life at the hands of the Widow Garret, and they embark upon a relationship. Isringhausen convinces Adams to allow her to meet with Swearengen. At the meeting, she admits to being an agent of the Pinkertons under the employ of Brom Garret's family, who instructed Isringhausen to frame Alma for soliciting Swearengen to murder her husband. Swearengen agrees to play along, but later reveals to Garret that he intends to blackmail Isringhausen due to his hatred for the Pinkerton agency.\n\nSamuel Fields, \"The Nigger General\", returns to camp. He tries to enlist Hostetler in his schemes. Bullock is forced to rescue him from an angry mob headed by Steve, a virulently racist drunk. Later, Hostetler catches a drunken Steve in the livery stable masturbating on Bullock's horse in revenge. Fields and Hostetler manage to coerce Steve into signing a written confession of bestiality. The admission will be publicized should Steve make any trouble for either of the livery workers in the future.\n\nHugo Jarry, a Yankton commissioner, tries to persuade Swearengen and Tolliver that Deadwood should become part of Dakota territory rather than Montana. He ends up siding with Swearengen.\n\nAlma Garret enlists the help of Sol Star to establish a bank in the camp.\n\nWolcott's agent Lee burns the bodies of captive Chinese prostitutes who have died from malnourishment while under his control. Mr. Wu is enraged and requests Swearengen's help to stop Lee. Because Lee is employed by Wolcott, who is in turn employed by George Hearst, Swearengen refuses any help until after negotiations over the town's future have been resolved. Mr. Wu escapes Swearengen's house arrest at The Gem, but Johnny Burns stops him from exacting his revenge on Lee or being killed himself.\n\nWilliam Bullock is trampled by a horse that escapes during a failed gelding and dies several hours after. His funeral is attended by many of Deadwood's citizens and the service is conducted by former card sharp Andy Cramed, who has returned to Deadwood an ordained minister.\n\nGeorge Hearst arrives in Deadwood and when he learns of the murders committed by Wolcott, confronts and fires him. Hearst purchases the Grand Central hotel from E. B. Farnum. The shamed Wolcott hangs himself. Tolliver claims to be in possession of a letter of confession in which Wolcott states that Hearst was aware of his murderous ways, yet continued his employment. Tolliver blackmails Hearst for 5% of every Gold Claim he has acquired in Deadwood.\n\nAl Swearengen negotiates with George Hearst on behalf of Mr. Wu, and they agree that Wu can regain his status if his people prove to be better workers than those of the \"San Francisco cocksucker\" Lee. Mr. Wu and Swearengen's henchmen plan vengeance in Deadwood's Chinatown. The operation is successful and Wu slits the throat of his rival.\n\nAlma Garret and Ellsworth marry at a ceremony conducted by Andy Cramed at the Grand Central hotel. After much dealing and double-dealing on the part of Swearengen and Silas Adams, the official papers confirming Deadwood's annexation into Yankton territory are signed by Bullock and Swearengen with Hugo Jarry present. Andy Cramed stabs Tolliver outside the Bella Union.\n\nSeason three begins six weeks after the events of season 2, government and law, as well as the interests of powerful commercial entities, begin to enter the town as Deadwood prepares itself for entry into Dakota Territory.\n\nHearst has several of his own Cornish miners murdered when they attempt to unionize. Elections are announced: Star and Farnum run for Mayor, while Bullock and barman Harry Manning compete for Sheriff. Angered that Hearst had someone killed in the Gem, Al cancels the election debates in an attempt to reassert his position in the camp. To teach Al a lesson and force him to help Hearst buy Alma's claim, Hearst has his lead henchman Captain Turner restrain Al, then chops off one of his fingers.\n\nOver Ellsworth's strong objections, Alma meets with Hearst to discuss buying her claim. Hearst becomes furious when she offers him a merely non-controlling interest and behaves menacingly towards Alma, but then allows her to leave without following through on his implied threat of rape.\n\nTolliver slowly recovers after being stabbed and gets back on his feet. Hearst knows Cy is lying about having a letter from Wolcott but decides to employ Cy to help deal with the members of the camp. Traveling actor Jack Langrishe arrives in Deadwood with his theatre troupe. He is an old friend of Swearengen's and eventually buys the former Chez Amis from Joannie Stubbs on condition that he build a new school house for the camp's children. Alma undergoes a D & C by Doc Cochran when her pregnancy threatens her health.\n\nHostetler and Samuel \"The Nigger General\" Fields return to the camp to find that Steve has taken over the livery. Bullock mediates between them, eventually getting Hostetler to agree to sell the Livery to Steve. Steve's ranting, racial slurs and impugning of Hostetler's honor finally drive the latter over the edge and he shoots himself.\n\nAnother miner is killed. Already angry from the Hostetler/Steve ordeal, Bullock arrests Hearst, drags him by the ear through the public thoroughfare and puts him in jail overnight.\n\nAlma is once again using dope. Leon confesses to Cy that he is Alma's supplier. Cy relays this news to Hearst but Hearst is still angry from his encounter with Bullock and believes that if Tolliver had told him this useful news beforehand he might not have provoked the sheriff. A furious Tolliver tells Leon to do nothing, but Leon, afraid of being implicated in Alma's murder, has already cut her off. Suspecting that Alma's return to drugs is due to her unhappiness at being married to a man she doesn't love, Ellsworth moves out of their house. They later agree to separate and Alma is able to stop taking the laudanum.\n\nHearst brings a large force of Pinkertons to the camp and encourages them to stir up trouble. Swearengen holds a meeting to decide what to do about Hearst. The town leaders are unable to decide on any direct action, other than to publish a letter from Bullock to the wife of one of the murdered miners that subtly highlights Hearst's callousness. Hearst has Merrick beaten for publishing it.\n\nAlma is shot at in the street. Swearengen takes her into the Gem and orders Dan to kidnap and restrain Ellsworth. Al guesses, correctly, that Hearst ordered the shooting, in an attempt to provoke then kill Ellsworth when he comes to Alma's aid. Hearst sends his second, the same man that beat Merrick and possibly also shot at Alma, to negotiate with Swearengen; Al kills him after extracting information. The town unites to protect Alma as she returns to work at the bank. Hearst has Ellsworth assassinated in his tent at Alma's mine. Trixie shoots Hearst in revenge for Ellsworth's death but fails to kill him. Fearing for her and Sofia's lives and unwilling to make the camp responsible for her protection, Alma sells her claim to Hearst to avoid further bloodshed.\n\nBullock receives discouraging news about the county election returns in his race for sheriff against Harry Manning, all the while knowing Hearst may have manipulated the results using Federal soldiers brought in to vote for his handpicked candidate elsewhere in the county.\n\nHearst demands that the whore who shot him be executed. Swearengen and Wu gather a militia in case a war breaks out. Al murders the prostitute Jen, despite Johnny's objections, in the hope of passing her corpse off as Trixie and placating Hearst. The ruse works and Hearst leaves Deadwood, giving over control of \"all his other-than-mining interests\" to Tolliver. Tolliver points a gun at Hearst from his balcony and wants to shoot him but instead watches as Bullock sees a smirking Hearst out of the camp. Enraged that Hearst is cutting him off, Tolliver takes his frustrations out on Leon by stabbing him in the femoral artery. Johnny and Al speak briefly of Jen's death, before Al returns to scrubbing her bloodstain.\n\nFrom its debut, \"Deadwood\" drew attention for its extensive profanity. It is a deliberate anachronism on the part of the creator with a twofold intent. Milch explained in several interviews that the characters were originally intended to use period slang and swear words. Such words, however, were based heavily on the time's deep religious roots and tended to be more blasphemous than scatological. Instead of being shockingly crude (in keeping with the tone of a frontier mining camp), the results sounded comical. As Geoffrey Nunberg put it \"… if you put words like 'goldarn' into the mouths of the characters on \"Deadwood\", they'd all wind up sounding like Yosemite Sam.\"\n\nInstead, it was decided that the show would use current profanity in order for the words to have the same impact on modern audiences as the blasphemous ones did back in the 1870s. In early episodes, the character of Mr. Wu excessively uses \"cocksucker,\" his favorite derogatory term for those whom he dislikes. Wu is also fond of the Cantonese derogatory term \"gweilo\" which he applies to the camp's white males.\n\nThe other intent in regard to the frequency of the swearing was to signal to the audience the lawlessness of the camp in much the same way that the original inhabitants used it to show that they were living outside the bounds of \"civil society.\"\n\nThe issue of the authenticity of \"Deadwood\"'s dialogue has even been alluded to in the show itself. Early in the second season, E.B. Farnum has fleeced Mr. Wolcott of $9,900, and Farnum tries to console the geologist:\n\nThe word \"fuck\" is said 43 times in the first hour of the show. It has been reported that the series had a total count of 2,980 \"fucks\" and an average of 1.56 utterances of \"fuck\" per minute of footage.\n\n\"Deadwood\" received almost universal praise from critics over the course of its three-year run. On Metacritic, the first season had an 80 out of 100 score sampled from 26 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\". The second and third season had near universal acclaim, with only one mixed review of the third season coming from \"Newsday\"'s Verne Gay. The praise generally centered on the strength of the writing and Milch's unique style of dialogue. \"Time Out New York\"'s Andrew Johnston listed \"Deadwood\" in his top ten TV shows for both 2005 and 2006, commenting: \"If history is written by the victors, \"Deadwood\" is all about giving the losers their due. In the first season, magnificent bastard Al Swearengen (Ian McShane) came off as a villain; this year, his inevitably doomed campaign to save the lawless town from annexation by the United States and exploitation by robber barons served as a brilliant allegory for the evolution of American capitalism.\" The strength and depth of the casting was cited repeatedly by critics and further substantiated by numerous nominations for best casting in a dramatic series. In an interview in 2012 with \"Adweek\", film critic Matt Zoller Seitz said that he considers \"Deadwood\" to be \"the greatest TV show ever.\"\nOn May 13, 2006, HBO confirmed it had opted not to pick up the options of the actors, which were set to expire on June 11, 2006. This meant that a fourth season with the current cast as it stood was unlikely, though HBO had stressed that the show was not cancelled and talks regarding its future were continuing. The chances of the show returning with its current lineup of cast and crew were limited.\n\nOn June 5, 2006, HBO and creator David Milch agreed to make two two-hour television films in place of a fourth season, after Milch declined a short-order of six episodes. This was because in the show's original format, each season portrayed two weeks in the life of Deadwood, with each episode representing one day. The final two-hour format would release these time restraints and allow for a broader narrative to finish off the series. In an interview on January 13, 2007, Milch stated that he still intended to finish the two films, if possible. On July 12, 2007, HBO executives admitted that producing the telefilms would be difficult and put the chances of their ever being made at \"50–50.\"\n\nActor Ian McShane claimed in an interview on October 1, 2007, that the show's sets were due to be dismantled and that the movies would not be made; however, he was referring to the show-related set pieces, i.e., front added to the buildings, props, etc., the set as itself, \"Melody Ranch\", being unchanged at least as of 2010. Actors Jim Beaver and W. Earl Brown commented a day later that they considered the series to be over. In the March 17, 2009, episode of \"The Daily Show with Jon Stewart\", McShane repeated that \"\"Deadwood\" is dead.\" In a January 14, 2011, interview in \"Esquire\", Milch said \"I don't know that the last word has been said on the subject ... I still nourish the hope that we're going to get to do a little more work in that area.\" In a March 21, 2012, interview, Milch was asked if the movies would ever be produced and replied, \"No, I don’t think so. We got really close about a year ago. Never say never, but it doesn’t look that way.\"\n\nOn August 12, 2015, it was reported that talks between HBO and Milch had resumed regarding a \"Deadwood\" film. In January 2016, HBO gave Milch the green-light to write a script for the film. On August 1, 2016, Casey Bloys, HBO's new head of programming, stated that Milch was writing the script for a \"Deadwood\" movie. On April 19, 2017, McShane announced that Milch submitted a script for a two-hour \"Deadwood\" movie to HBO, saying \"[A] two-hour movie script has been delivered to HBO. If they don't deliver [a finished product], blame them.\" McShane said that he hoped to discuss the film with Milch further, and said of the original cast returning that \"we'd all love to do it ... It would be nice to see all of the old gang again.\" On November 12, 2017, TVLine reported that the \"Deadwood\" movie is set to begin production in fall 2018, although HBO had not officially green-lit the project.\n\nOn July 20, 2018, Robin Weigert in an interview with the \"Los Angeles Times\" said that a \"Deadwood\" film would likely be filmed in the fall of 2018. \"It’s safe enough to say [the film] is happening this fall,\" she said. \"There’s a set being built and tax incentives to get it done. A lot of [actors] have signed on. There’s a 90% chance it’ll finally happen.\" Five days later on July 25, HBO confirmed that a \"Deadwood\" movie had been greenlit and that Dan Minahan, who directed four episodes in the series' original run, would direct the film, with production set to begin in October 2018. According to research requested by the producers, the film is likely to be set in 1889, approximately 10 years after the end of season 3. On August 21, 2018, W. Earl Brown gave his thoughts on the final draft of the script saying, \"in the course of those two hours, my emotions ricocheted in every fucking direction: exhilaration to melancholy; hoots of joy to screams of despair. The Maestro has topped himself. The structure is essentially the same as the first version I read a year and a half ago, but the complexities of the relationships, the emotional peaks and depths, are all sharpened to a razor fine edge. It’s gut wrenching.\" Brown also confirmed that everyone in the main cast would be returning; however, the characters played by Powers Boothe and Ralph Richeson, who have since died, would not be recast. \"Everyone from the main cast who still draws air, with the exception of Silas Adams [Titus Welliver]\" would return, Brown said. Production on the film was set to begin on October 5, 2018, according to Brown. The film is planned for a spring 2019 premiere. On November 5, 2018, HBO announced that the film had begun production, confirming the returns of several cast members.\n\nAll three seasons are available on DVD and Blu-ray. HBO was responsible for the North American releases, while Paramount Home Entertainment handled international distribution—the latter being a byproduct of CBS Studios International (the successor-in-interest to the television unit of Paramount Pictures) handling worldwide TV distribution for the series (as Paramount Television co-produced the series with HBO). \"Deadwood: The Complete Series\" was released on December 9, 2008. This DVD set includes a special bonus disc with new features, most prominently a focus on what would have occurred in the fourth season. The Blu-ray contains the same extras as found on the DVD set.\n\nThe \"Deadwood\" title music is a piece by David Schwartz.\n\nThe closing credits music is listed below:\n\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "16587658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16587658", "title": "Decision Sciences Institute", "text": "Decision Sciences Institute\n\nThe Decision Sciences Institute (DSI) is a professional association of university professors, graduate students, and practitioners whose interest lies in the application of quantitative research and qualitative research to the decision problems of individuals, organizations, and society. Many of the members of this academic organization are faculty members in business schools. \n\nMembers of the Institute share their research findings at DSI's Annual Meeting (DSI's main academic conference), international DSI meetings, or regional conferences. The Decision Sciences Institute also publishes two journals and hosts annual award competitions for contributions to innovation education, the best case study, and best doctoral dissertation. In addition, the Institute offers job placement services, doctoral student and new faculty consortia, and a variety of professional development activities.\n\nThe Decision Sciences Institute publishes two academic journals, \"Decision Sciences (journal)\" and \"Decision Sciences Journal of Innovative Education\". Both journals are printed and distributed by Wiley-Blackwell and have subscriptions totaling over 5,000. In addition, the publication \"Decision Line\", includes a wide range of practical and educational feature columns (international studies, ecommerce, academic research, production/operations management issues, information technology, doctoral studies, and classroom instruction), as well as news items that inform the membership of past, present, and future events.\n\nThere are currently eight (8) regions. There are five regions in the United States and three (4) outside the U.S. (Europe, Mexico, Asia-Pacific, and the Indian subcontinent). The regions operate independently within the Institute. Each region elects its own officers and one representative who serves on the Institute’s Board of Directors.\n\nDSI's home office is located in Atlanta, Georgia, where it receives support from the J. Mack Robinson College of Business at Georgia State University. Dennis E. Grawoig founded the organization in 1968 and served as its first president for two years and as its executive director until 1986. The Executive Director of the Institute from 1986 until her untimely death on June 3, 2013 was Carol J. Latta.\n\nAs of April 19, 2014 DSI, was moved from the GSU campus to the University of Houston.\n\nIn November 1968, a small group of faculty members met in Atlanta, Georgia to propose an academic society that would encourage interdisciplinary (now cross-disciplinary) participation in the new field of decision sciences. \n\nThe first annual meeting of the American Institute for Decision Sciences (AIDS) was held in New Orleans in 1969. About 100 charter members were in attendance. \n\nThe Institute's first journal, \"Decision Sciences\", was first published in 1970. In 2003, DSI began publishing a second journal, the \"Decision Sciences Journal of Innovative Education (DSJIE)\". DSJIE publishes research on teaching and learning issues.\n\nIn 1986, the name of the organization was changed to the Decision Sciences Institute \"once the name AIDS became linked in the public's mind with a newly emerging disease.\" \n\nSince 1986, Carol Latta has served as the Institute's Executive Director. She was made a Fellow of DSI in 2003. \n\nDSI is one of a handful of organizations that address solving real-world business problems. One way in which DSI distinguishes itself from similar organizations is in addressing educational issues including curriculum, pedagogy, and careers. \n\nAttendance at the Annual Meetings is now in the range of 1300 to 1400 attendees. The Institute is an independent non-profit educational organization.\n\nIn order to further research in the decision sciences, the membership of the Decision Sciences Institute has been asked to participate in studies and surveys and the research papers published in DSI conference proceedings have been studied. \n\nIn March 2008, the Decision Sciences Institute Wikipedia entry was developed. \n\nThe honor of Fellow is occasionally awarded to DSI members for outstanding contributions in the field of decision sciences in at least two (2) of the following: research and scholarship, teaching and/or administration, and service to the Decision Sciences Institute.\n\nPresidents of DSI have included:\n\n2016–2017 Funda Sahin, University of Houston \n2015–2016 Morgan Swink, Texas Christian University \n2014–2015 Marc J. Schniederjans, University of Nebraska-Lincoln \n2013–2014 Maling Ebrahimpour, University of South Florida-St. Petersburg \n2012–2013 E. Powell Robinson, Jr., Texas A&M University \n2011–2012 Krishna S. Dhir, Berry College \n2010–2011 G. Keong Leong, University of Nevada-Las Vegas \n2009–2010 Ram Narasimhan, Michigan State University \n2008–2009 Norma J. Harrison, China Europe International Business School (CEIBS) \n2007–2008 Kenneth E. Kendall, Rutgers University \n2006–2007 Mark M. Davis, Bentley College \n2005–2006 Thomas E. Callarman, China Europe International Business School (CEIBS) \n2004–2005 Gary L. Ragatz, Michigan State University \n2003–2004 Barbara B. Flynn, Wake Forest University \n2002–2003 Thomas W. Jones, University of Arkansas-Fayetteville \n2001–2002 F. Robert Jacobs, Indiana University-Bloomington \n2000–2001 Michael J. Showalter, Florida State University \n1999–2000 Lee J. Krajewski, University of Notre Dame \n1998–1999 Terry R. Rakes, Virginia Tech \n1997–1998 James R. Evans, University of Cincinnati \n1996–1997 Betty J. Whitten, University of Georgia \n1995–1996 John C. Anderson, University of Minnesota-Twin Cities \n1994–1995 K. Roscoe Davis, University of Georgia \n1993–1994 Larry P. Ritzman, Boston College \n1992–1993 William C. Perkins, Indiana University-Bloomington \n1991–1992 Robert E. Markland, University of South Carolina \n1990–1991 Ronald J. Ebert, University of Missouri-Columbia \n1989–1990 Bernard W. Taylor, III, Virginia Tech \n1988–1989 William L. Berry, Ohio State University \n1987–1988 James M. Clapper, Aladdin TempRite \n1986–1987 William R. Darden, Deceased \n1985–1986 Harvey J. Brightman, Georgia State University \n1984–1985 Sang M. Lee, University of Nebraska-Lincoln \n1983–1984 Laurence J. Moore, Virginia Tech \n1982–1983 Linda G. Sprague, China Europe International Business School (CEIB) \n1981–1982 Norman L. Chervany, University of Minnesota-Twin Cities \n1979–1981 D. Clay Whybark, University of North Carolina-Charlotte \n1978–1979 John Neter, University of Georgia \n1977–1978 Charles P. Bonini, Stanford University \n1976–1977 Lawrence L. Schkade, University of Texas-Arlington \n1975–1976 Kenneth P. Uhl, Deceased \n1974–1975 Albert J. Simone, Rochester Institute of Technology \n1973–1974 Gene K. Groff, Georgia State University \n1972–1973 Rodger D. Collons, Drexel University \n1971–1972 George W. Summers, Deceased \n1969–1971 Dennis E. Grawoig, Deceased\n\nThe Decision Sciences Institute offers an Annual Meeting open to anyone who wants to participate in the dissemination of knowledge concerning the decision sciences.\n\nDSI also sponsors subgoups referred to as regions. Each of the following regions has their own constitution and bylaws and hold regular meetings: Asia-Pacific, European, Indian subcontinent, Mexico, Midwest U.S., Northeast U.S., Southeast U.S., Southwest U.S., and Western U.S.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55804092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55804092", "title": "Expo 2023", "text": "Expo 2023\n\nExpo 2023 is an upcoming specialized exhibition to be held in 2023 in Buenos Aires, Argentina. The Bureau International des Expositions (BIE) awarded Buenos Aires as the host on November 15, 2017. The will be the first time that the BIE Expo held in Latin America.\n\nThe exhibition will have a theme of “Science, Innovation, Art and Creativity for Human Development. Creative Industries in Digital Convergence” and will take place between 15 January and 15 April 2023.\n\nThere were two other bids to host the specialized exhibition. Łódź, Poland submitted the bid with a “City Re:Invented” theme on 15 June 2016.\n\nAnd Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA submitted a bid with theme “Healthy People, Healthy Planet: Wellness and Well Being for All”. \n\nA secret ballot took place to select the winner at BIE's 162nd General Assembly on 15 November 2017. The first ballot awarded 46 votes to both Buenos Ares and Łódź, with Minnesota gathering only 25 (and 1 abstention). This meant that Minnesota was eliminated and a second round ballot held which gave 62 votes to Buenos Ares and 56 to Łódź.\n"}
{"id": "12067384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12067384", "title": "Filminute", "text": "Filminute\n\nFilminute is the international one-minute film festival dedicated to presenting, promoting and awarding the world's best one-minute films. Filminute was founded in 2005 and the inaugural festival ran in September 2006. Like other leading international Film Festivals, Filminute looks for films that deliver a well-balanced equation of content, acting, dialogue, storytelling, photography and sound design. Filminute accepts films from the categories of fiction, animation, documentary and mashup.\n\nThe annual festival and competition runs throughout the month of October. An international jury consisting of luminaries from the fields of filmmaking, literature, art and communications is responsible for the awarding of Best Filminute. Audiences worldwide are invited online to view and vote for the People's Choice Award.\n\nFilminute 2006 featured submissions from 25 countries and attracted a worldwide, online audience from over 50 countries. Best Filminute honours went to Anton Groves for his UK-Romanian production \"Line\". The People's Choice Award was won by Wayne Campbell for his UK production \"It Could Be\". According to Ekow Eshun, artistic director of London's Institute of Contemporary Arts and Filminute 2006 jury member, Filminute \"demonstrated a high level of polish and a strong and exciting progression in user-generated content. Filminute has raised the bar in its first year and I am very interested to see how high the bar can go\".\n\nFilminute 2007 generated submissions from 45 countries, viewership from over 90 countries, and more than 2 million viewings of the shortlisted films online and on television. The jury-awarded Best Filminute went to Kristina Grozeva's \"Game\" (Bulgaria), while The People's Choice was awarded to Siddartha Jatla's \"Missing\" (India). During an October 2007 television interview with Filminute co-founder and executive director John Ketchum, CBC journalist and host Evan Solomon described Filminute as \"the future of modern storytelling\".\n\nFilminute 2008 drew submissions from 60 countries, viewership from 94 countries, and more than 3 million viewings of the shortlisted films online and on television. The jury-awarded Best Filminute went to Oli Hyatt's \"StitchUp Showdown - Gym Jam\" (UK) and The People's Choice was awarded to Pici Papai's \"Quick\" (Hungary). The 2008 festival attracted a great deal of media attention including that of Wired.com whose headline ran, \"If those sprawling three-minute YouTube clips seem to drag on forever, Filminute, the international one-minute film festival, might be right up your alley.\"\n\nFilminute 2009 drew submissions from 55 countries, audiences from 122 countries and more than 3 million viewings of the shortlisted films online and across a variety of media. The jury-awarded Best Filminute went to UK's Phil Sansom & Olly Williams for their film \"Black Hole\". The People's Choice was awarded to Canada's James Cooper for \"Life\". The 2009 festival drew many positive reviews including Ronald Bergan's Guardian UK article \"One Hot Minute: How Long is a Piece of Film?\" which praised Filminute’s collection of \"technically impressive mini-movies\" and the festival’s commitment and focus \"on story\".\n\nFilminute 2012 marked the second time an animation won Best Filminute, with Director Ant Blade’s \"Chop-Chop\" (UK) taking the top prize. As well, Ant Blade was only the third filmmaker in the festival’s eight-year history to have two films shortlisted in the same year. The People's Choice award was won by Ben Jacobson for his smirk-inducing drama \"Candy Crime\" (UK). In addition to a record 134 countries tuning in to see the films, and a surge in the number of comedies, 2012 also saw the festival’s eastern presence grow with strong shortlisted films from Lithuania, Georgia, Turkey, and Russia.\n\nFilminute 2013 welcomed American independent filmmaking icon Richard Linklater to the jury who together with FIPRESCI film critic Carmen Gray and other luminaries awarded Best Filminute honours to Dutch filmmaker David Stevens for his excellent documentary \"M-22\". At the same time, the big story at the festival's 8th edition was Martinique filmmaker Khris Burton’s film \"Maybe Another Time\" which won the People’s Choice and Top Rated awards, as well as finished 1st in the Jury Commendations. It was the strongest finish ever for a single film at the festival.\n\nFilminute 2014 set new viewing records for the festival with over 5 million views recorded for the collection. Much of this was on the back of Ignacio Rodó's moving thriller \"Tuck Me In\" (Spain) which won the jury-awarded Best Filminute. The People's Choice award went to André Marques' heartwarming film \"Grandpa\" (Portugal) which also impressed with a Jury Commendation, a runner-up ranking for Top Rated, as well as the inaugural Cineuropa Audience Award. The festival and films also garnered widespread international media attention including Hugh Hart's piece in Fast Company \"60-Second Knockouts\"\n\nFilminute celebrated its 10th anniversary in 2015 with Guillaume Renusson's ground-breaking and powerful French sign-language film \"A Minute of Silence\". The film was the overwhelming choice of the international jury which included Oscar-winning producer (and Women In Film president) Cathy Schulman, FIPRESCI General Secretary Klaus Eder, and advertising heavyweight Kevin Roberts. Multiple Filminute award-winner Khris Burton returned to take the People's Choice award for his dark and magical film \"Nanny\" (Martinique). And the Top Rated award went to Romania's George Molesag for his hard-hitting drama \"Rematch\". To celebrate the 10th anniversary, film critic Carlo Perassi teamed up with a Taste of Cinema to write the popular \"The Ten Best One-Minute Films of the Past Decade\"\n\nFilminute 2016 was honoured to welcome renowned and prolific Taiwanese filmmaker Hou Hsiao-Hsien to the jury. Together with author John Vaillant, FIPRESCI journalist Barbara Hollender and others, the jury awarded Best Filminute honours to Rohin Raveendran’s timely and moving film \"Paijana\" (India). The hilarious French animation \"Voltige\" won the People’s Choice Award (as well as over 100,000 views on Facebook alone). \"Cutting Room\" by Canadian directors Nathan White and Richard Colmer won the Top Rated award.\n\nFilminute 2017 was delighted to welcome to the jury, Baronessa Beatrice Monti, the founder and president of the Santa Maddalena Foundation, the famed Tuscan writing retreat that has partnered with Filminute since the inaugural festival in 2006. Through its partnership with Women In Film, Filminute also welcomed the award-winning Ghanian-American film director Priscilla Anany. Together with their fellow jurors they awarded Best Filminute honours to Iranian director Kaveh Jahed's tense and moving migrant thriller, \"A Share of a Share.\" The People's Choice award went to American director Jin Ryu for his docu-drama \"Megan.\" And the Top Rated award went to \"Comic Relief\" by Colombian director Carlos Andres Reyes. Filminute 2017 also saw the launch of the first Filminute Development Prize, sponsored by CineCoup.\n\nFilminute 2018\nFilminute 2017\nFilminute 2016\nFilminute 2015\nFilminute 2014\nFilminute 2013\nFilminute 2012\nFilminute 2011\nFilminute 2010\nFilminute 2009\nFilminute 2008\nFilminute 2007\nFilminute 2006\n\nFilminute 2018\nFilminute 2017\nFilminute 2016\nFilminute 2015\nFilminute 2014\nFilminute 2013\nFilminute 2012\nFilminute 2011\nFilminute 2010\nFilminute 2009\nFilminute 2008\nFilminute 2007\nFilminute 2006\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5543029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5543029", "title": "Florida Strawberry Festival", "text": "Florida Strawberry Festival\n\nThe Florida Strawberry Festival is an annual event that takes place in Plant City, Florida. It was started in 1930 by the local Lions Club, a local philanthropy club dedicated to bettering the community, after several attempts by locals in the previous 20 years to promote the local strawberry crop. Beginning in 1929, The Lions Club worked to plan the festival honoring King Strawberry, the champion of the area's agricultural products. The festival lasts 11 days, and generates an attendance of about half a million patrons from all over Central Florida and other global nations. \n\n\nWillie Nelson (first sold-out afternoon show in Strawberry Festival history)\n\nJimmy Stuff, Bobby Vinton, Alabama, Mel Tillis, Scotty Mccreery, Mercyme, Kevin Costner, Hunter Hayes, Sawyer Brown, Happy Together Tour, Ronnie Milsap, Sara Evans, Ricky Skaggs, Craig Morgan, Tommy Dorsey Orchestra, Oak Ridge Boys, Newsboys, Loretta Lynn, Boyz 2 Men, Day + Shay, John Legend, Luna Shalabi xPermalee, REBA.\n\nDemi Lovato (as part of her A Special Night with Demi Lovato tour).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "231939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231939", "title": "Frederick Rolfe", "text": "Frederick Rolfe\n\nFrederick William Rolfe, better known as Baron Corvo, and also calling himself 'Frederick William Serafino Austin Lewis Mary Rolfe', (22 July 1860 – 25 October 1913), was an English writer, artist, photographer and eccentric.\n\nRolfe was born in Cheapside, London, the son of a piano manufacturer. He left school at the age of fourteen and became a teacher. He taught briefly at The King's School, Grantham, where the then headmaster, Ernest Hardy, later principal of Jesus College, Oxford, became a lifelong friend.\n\nHe converted to Roman Catholicism in 1886 and was confirmed by Cardinal Manning. With his conversion came a strongly-felt vocation to the priesthood, which persisted throughout his life despite being constantly frustrated and never realised. In 1887 he was sponsored to train at St Mary's College, Oscott near Birmingham and in 1889 was a student at the Scots College in Rome, but was thrown out by both due to his inability to concentrate on priestly studies, his \"reputation as a pederast\", and his erratic behaviour.\n\nAt this stage he entered the circle of the Duchess Sforza Cesarini, who, he claimed, adopted him as a grandson and gave him the use of the title of \"Baron Corvo\". This became his best-known pseudonym; he also called himself \"Frank English\", \"Frederick Austin\" and \"A. Crab Maid\", among others. More often he abbreviated his own name to \"Fr. Rolfe\" (an ambiguous usage, suggesting he was the priest he had hoped to become).\n\nRolfe spent most of his life as a freelance writer, mainly in England but eventually in Venice. He lived in the era before the welfare state, and relied on benefactors for support. But he had an argumentative nature and had a tendency to fall out spectacularly with most of the people who tried to help him and offer him room and board. Eventually, out of money and out of luck, he died in Venice from a stroke on 25 October 1913. He was buried on the Isola di San Michele, Venice.\n\nRolfe's life provided the basis for \"The Quest for Corvo\" by A.J.A. Symons, an \"experiment in biography\" regarded as a minor classic in the field. This same work reveals that Rolfe had an unlikely enthusiast in the person of Maundy Gregory.\n\nRolfe was entirely comfortable with his homosexuality and associated and corresponded with a number of other homosexual Englishmen. Early in his life he wrote a fair amount of idealistic but mawkish poetry about boy martyrs and the like. These and his Toto stories contain pederastic elements, but the young male pupils he was teaching at the time unanimously recalled in later life that there had never been any hint of impropriety in his relations with them. As he himself matured, Rolfe's settled sexual preference was for late adolescents. Towards the end of his life he made his only explicit reference to his specific sexual age preference, in one of the Venice letters to Charles Masson Fox, in which he declared: \"My preference was for the 16, 17, 18 and large.\" Grant Richards, in his \"Memories of a Misspent Youth\" (1932), recalls \"Frederick Baron Corvo\" at Parson's Pleasure in Oxford – where scholars could bathe naked – \"surveying the yellow flesh tints of youth with unbecoming satisfaction\".\n\nThose of whom it is either speculated or surmised that they had sexual relations with Rolfe – Aubrey Thurstans, Sholto Osborne Gordon Douglas, John 'Markoleone', Ermenegildo Vianello and the other Venetian gondoliers – were all sexually mature young men between the ages of sixteen and twenty-one (with the exception of Douglas, who was considerably older). The idealised young men in his fiction were of a similar age.\n\nIn 1904, soon after his ordination as a Roman Catholic priest, the convert Robert Hugh Benson formed a chaste but passionate friendship with Rolfe. For two years this relationship involved letters \"not only weekly, but at times daily, and of an intimate character, exhaustingly charged with emotion.\" There was a falling out in 1906, and Benson satirised Rolfe in his novel \"The Sentimentalists\". Rolfe returned the favor a few years later, putting a caricature of Benson named \"Bobugo Bonsen\" in a book named \"Nicholas Crabbe\". Their letters were subsequently destroyed, probably by Benson's brother.\n\nRolfe sought to characterise the relationships in his fiction as examples of 'Greek love' between an older man and an ephebe, and thus endow them with the sanction of the ancient Hellenic tradition familiar to all Edwardians with a classical education.\n\nRolfe's most important and enduring works are the stories and novels in which he himself is the thinly-disguised protagonist:\n\n\nIn 1912, the year before his death, Rolfe began to write another autobiographical novel, \"The Freeing of the Soul, or The Seven Degrees\" (written 1912–1913, published 1995), of which only a few pages have survived. Set in the fifth century, the novel was to have as its protagonist a middle-aged Byzantine bishop named Septimius, preoccupied with the likelihood of another of the barbarian attacks which had been terrifying his Venetian flock. The novel was a departure for Rolfe, as his four previous autobiographical works had been set in his own time.\n\nRolfe wrote four other novels: \"Don Tarquinio\" (1905), \"Don Renato\" (1909), \"The Weird of the Wanderer\" (1912), and \"Hubert’s Arthur\" (published posthumously in 1935). Both \"The Weird\" and \"Hubert’s Arthur\" were collaborations with Harry Pirie-Gordon. These works differ from the autobiographical novels in two respects: they are set in previous centuries, and the principal protagonist in each is not Rolfe’s \"alter ego\", although there is a strong degree of identification. (In \"The Weird of the Wanderer\" the hero, Nicholas Crabbe, becomes a time traveller and discovers that he is Odysseus.)\n\nRolfe also wrote shorter fiction, published in contemporary periodicals and collected after his death in \"Three Tales of Venice\" (1950), \"Amico di Sandro\" (1951), \"The Cardinal Prefect of Propaganda\" (1957) and \"The Armed Hands\" (1974). He also published an entertaining but unreliable work of history, \"Chronicles of the House of Borgia\" (1901), translations of \"The Rubáiyát of 'Umar Khaiyám\" (1903) and \"The Songs of Meleager\" (published posthumously in 1937), and a little poetry, later gathered into one volume, \"Collected Poems\" (1974).\n\nRolfe was an enthusiastic letter writer. John Holden recalled that \"Corvo was one of those men who never speak a word if they can write it. We lived in the same house, a very little one, yet he would always communicate with me by note if I was not in the same room with him. He had dozens of letter books. He seized upon every opportunity for writing a letter, and every letter, whether to a publisher or to a cobbler, was written with the same care.\" About a thousand of his letters have survived, and several sequences of them have been published in limited editions. The letters reveal a lively, intelligent and absorbent mind, but because of Rolfe’s paranoiac tendencies they are often disputatious and recriminatory. Among the commentators who rated Rolfe’s letters more highly than his fiction was W H Auden, who wrote that Rolfe \"had every right to be proud of his verbal claws … A large vocabulary is essential to the invective style, and Rolfe by study and constant practice became one of the great masters of vituperation.\" The letters have yet to be collected into a single scholarly edition.\n\nRolfe took an interest in photography throughout his life, but never achieved any more than basic competence. While he began to experiment with photography when he was a schoolmaster, it was his time in Rome in 1889–90 that introduced him to the work of the 'Arcadian' photographers Wilhelm von Gloeden and Guglielmo Plüschow. His seminary, the Scots College, was quite close to Plüschow's studio in via Sardegna, just off the via Veneto, and when Rolfe was expelled from the College and came under the benevolent patronage of the Duchess Sforza Cesarini, he began his own photographic efforts in imitation of von Gloeden and Plüschow. His models were the local \"ragazzi\" from the streets of Genzano di Roma, a town dominated by the Duchess's \"palazzo\". These youths were later to become the principal characters in Rolfe's Toto stories, published first in \"The Yellow Book\" in 1895–96 and later collected in \"Stories Toto Told Me\" in 1898 and \"In His Own Image\" in 1901.\n\nRolfe continued to indulge his interest in photography in Christchurch in 1890–91, upon his return from Rome, and experimented with colour and underwater pictures. He began to lose interest, however, and really only took photography up again when he returned to Italy in 1908. His photographic career has been fully documented in Donald Rosenthal's book \"The Photographs of Frederick Rolfe Baron Corvo 1860–1913\", which was published in 2008.\n\nRolfe never lost his conviction that he had been called to the Catholic priesthood. When he worked in his late teens and early twenties as a schoolmaster, and later when he tried his hand at painting and photography, he saw these as stop-gap occupations, means of earning an income until the Church authorities came to their senses and agreed with his own firm view that he had a priestly vocation.\n\nIt was for this reason that Rolfe never undertook any formal training in either painting or photography. His paintings and designs, including several for the covers of his own books, were bold and surprisingly accomplished amateur efforts. He executed some of the most impressive of them when he was living in Christchurch in 1890 and 1891, including a small but striking oil painting of St Michael.\n\nFrom 1895 to 1899 he lived in Holywell in North Wales, where he painted some fourteen processional banners, commissioned by the parish priest there, Fr Charles Sidney Beauclerk. Rolfe painted the figures of the saints and John Holden assisted with the lettering on the borders. Only five of the banners have survived, and may still be seen in the Holywell Well Museum; they are colourful representations, in a naive style, of Saints Winefride, George, Ignatius, Gregory the Great and Augustine of Canterbury.\n\nRolfe produced no further paintings after he became a full-time writer.\n\nRolfe's early books were politely reviewed but none of them was enough of a success to secure an income for its author, whose posthumous reputation began to dim. Within a very few years, however, coteries of readers began to discover a common interest in his work, and a resilient literary cult began to form. In 1934 A. J. A. Symons published \"The Quest for Corvo\", one of the century's iconic biographies, and this brought Rolfe's life and work to the attention of a wider public. In the 1950s and 1960s, there was a further surge of interest in him which became known as \"the Corvo revival\", including a successful adaptation of \"Hadrian\" for the London stage. Two biographies of Rolfe appeared in the 1970s. These led to his inclusion in all the major works of reference and engendered a stream of academic theses on him. Although his books have remained in print, no substantial monograph has ever appeared in English on his work. With the growing academic interest in the history of literary modernism and acknowledgement of the central importance of life writing in its genesis, the true importance of Rolfe’s autobiographical fictions has come into focus. His influence has been discerned in novels written by Henry Harland, Ronald Firbank, Graham Greene, and Alexander Theroux, and in his coinage of neologisms and use of the Ulysses story there is some perhaps coincidental prefiguring of the work of James Joyce.\n\nRolfe's works include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50712526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50712526", "title": "Greenwich Concours d'Elégance", "text": "Greenwich Concours d'Elégance\n\nThe Greenwich Concours d'Elegance is an annual event in June that has been held since 1996 in Greenwich, Connecticut. The event is a Concours d'Elegance that features classic American and European vintage cars that are entered in a judging competition. The event includes classic car parades over 3 days. The event often includes American muscle cars, very early American cars, luxury cars of all years, and rare European cars.\n\nThere is a Bonham's auction on the last day. Rare cars have recently been auctioned there for over $1,000,000. In 2014, a Lamborghini Countach sold for the most ever at auction - $1,200,000. In 2015, the high auction prices were a Bugatti Type 57S Stelvio Convertible for $1,000,000, a 1938 Mercedes-Benz 320 for $775,000 and a Porsche 911RS 2.7 for $594,000. For the 2016 auction, there was a 1967 Ferrari 275 ($3M value), a 1937 Mercedes-Benz 540K, and a Ferrari F40 ($1M value). The auction also includes barn finds, veteran cars, and antique cars.\n\n"}
{"id": "24600183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24600183", "title": "Homegrown (drum and bass event)", "text": "Homegrown (drum and bass event)\n\nHomegrown was a monthly drum and bass event held at Mercury Live, Cape Town. It featured several international and local acts, including Dieselboy, Pendulum, Counterstrike, Donny, Raiden, Eye-D, Matt Impact, Robyn Chaos, Temper D, Nymfo, SFR and Hyphen.\n\nOwned and managed by Algorythm Recordings, the event took place every first Saturday of the month, and was the longest running drum and bass event in South Africa. The last Homegrown was held on 3 November 2012. It has subsequently spawned a successor event called 'Pressure', which occupies Homegrown's original venue and schedule, hosted by SFR, Hyphen, and RudeOne.\n\nThe first Homegrown event was held in September 2000 at The Jam (now Mercury Live). The event was masterminded by Algorythm Recordings. The idea behind it is to get South African drum and bass crews Algorythm, Sublime and Krushed & Sorted under one roof, once a month, for the first time. The focus is promoting artists who produce drum and bass locally, hence the name \"Homegrown\".\n\nIn 2001, Mercury Live offered Homegrown a monthly residency, making it a permanent fixture in the South African drum and bass scene. With drum and bass music requiring well-engineered, large sound systems, Algorythm developed a long working relationship with Hellfire Sound.\n\nSince its establishment in 2000, Homegrown has hosted a large range of artists, with headlining acts including Pendulum, Counterstrike, Dieselboy, Donny, Raiden, Eye-D, Matt Impact, Robyn Chaos, Temper D, MC Messinian and Nymfo.\nThe monthly event has also been a launching platform for South African drum and bass artists, with various acts such as SFR, RudeOne, MFU, Niskerone, MC Skywalker, Psyke and the Anti Alias performing multiple times. Resident DJs include Counterstrike and Hyphen.\n\nPrinted on perforated paper, Homegrown flyers are commonly used as gerrick or filters in the preparation of cannabis smoking. Early flyer and logo designs depicted images of marijuana plants and leaves. This was later changed to appeal to a much wider audience, however the perforated flyer is still in use.\n\nRecent Homegrown flyers have contained QR Codes, storing URL data to downloadable MP3 and desktop wallpapers. All flyers and event visuals are designed by Eaton Crous himself.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856248", "title": "International Gilbert and Sullivan Festival", "text": "International Gilbert and Sullivan Festival\n\nThe International Gilbert and Sullivan Festival was founded in 1994 by Ian Smith and his son Neil and is held every summer in England. The two- or three-week Festival of Gilbert and Sullivan performances and fringe events attracts thousands of visitors, including performers, supporters, and G&S enthusiasts from around the world. Beginning in 2014, Harrogate, North Yorkshire, has hosted the Festival, which was held in Buxton, Derbyshire, from 1994 to 2013. \n\nAt the Festival, up to a dozen amateur Gilbert and Sullivan performing societies from around the world compete on the Festival's main stage each year for awards including \"International Champion\". At the weekends there are professional Gilbert and Sullivan performances, including performances each year by the Festival's homegrown National Gilbert & Sullivan Opera Company. A smaller nearby theatre and other venues host the Festival fringe, which consists of dozens of performances and lectures, a memorabilia fair, and other events.\n\nThe Festival was founded in 1994 and continues to be produced by English businessman Ian Smith, his son Neil, and their family to preserve and enhance the knowledge, understanding and appreciation of the works of Gilbert and Sullivan. It also has a goal of reinstating G&S and the performing arts in schools in Britain. On several occasions, the Festival added a week of performances in the United States. The founders believe that the Gilbert and Sullivan works are an important national heritage and legacy, especially as performed in the tradition of the venerable, year-round D'Oyly Carte Opera Company, which performed Gilbert and Sullivan's Savoy Operas continuously, year-round, for over a century until 1982. When that company closed in 1982, greatly diminishing the amount of Gilbert and Sullivan produced in Britain, Ian Smith \"had a burning anger\" that the English Arts Council had not subsidised the company, and this led him to found the Festival.\n\nThe Festival was held in Buxton, England, every year from 1994 to 2013, but it has experimented with producing additional Festival weeks in other towns or cities, including Eastbourne, England once; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, twice; Berkeley, California, once; and Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, twice. The Festival relocated to Harrogate, England, in 2014. where it continues to be held each summer.\n\nEach summer, beginning with the last weekend in July or first weekend in August, the Festival includes two or three weeks of nightly G&S operas (and weekend matinees) and dozens of daytime fringe activities, The Festival has sold more than 25,000 tickets in some years and attracts up to 2,000 performers each year. \n\nSky Arts described the Festival as \"one of the most colourful, melodic and joyous festivals of musical theatre you will come across. Celebrating the timeless, waspishly satirical lyrics of W. S. Gilbert and the brilliant musical inventiveness of Arthur Sullivan, the festival is quite simply the world’s biggest event dedicated to the Savoy operas. ... It is forward-looking and fun presenting contemporary as well as traditional productions of G&S.\" The Festival's professional orchestra accompanies the main stage performances.\n\nAt the core of the Festival is a competition among amateur G&S performing troupes from Britain and around the world. Over the course of the Festival, on weeknights, \"the best non-professional groups from the UK and overseas compete for the International Champions title.\" The day of performance for each amateur group is hectic, with move-in to the theatre at 9 a.m., lighting call at 11 a.m., their one and only tech-dress rehearsal (with the Festival orchestra) in the afternoon, the performance in the evening, and move-out immediately afterwards. A professional adjudicator critiques each amateur performance immediately after the curtain falls. The adjudicator then scores each performance, and both group and individual awards are announced at the end of the Festival. \n\nAt the first Festival in 1994, first prize was awarded to the production of \"Utopia, Limited\" presented by the Gilbert & Sullivan Society of Maine, in the US (then known as the G&S Society of Hancock County). The Derby Gilbert & Sullivan Company has won the first prize more often than any other company (six times); and the South Anglia Savoy Players has won five times and placed second four times. Festival Productions, Ireland, won in three consecutive years, 2007 to 2009. Individual awards are also presented for performers, directors and musical directors.\n\nSome groups compete year after year at the Festival, but some companies, especially those travelling from North America, South Africa, Australia and other distant places, may visit only occasionally or once. Some groups meet and rehearse entirely at the Festival, including the internet group SavoyNet, which has competed each year since 1997. SavoyNet were Festival Champions in 2013 and 2018 and are the first and only company thus far to present all 14 G&S operas at the Festival. The Festival organizers also rehearse, during the Festival each year, a \"Youth Production\" (for performers under 21) and a \"Bus Pass Opera\" production (for performers over 60). A \"Unifest\" competition among university groups is presented simultaneously, as part of the Festival fringe.\n\nWhile the amateur productions compete during weeknights at the Festival, there are weekend professional performances given by companies such as the Carl Rosa Opera Company, Opera della Luna, the New York Gilbert and Sullivan Players, Charles Court Opera, and the Festival's self-produced National Gilbert & Sullivan Opera Company, which has starred such well-known G&S performers as Richard Suart, Simon Butteriss, Bruce Graham, Gillian Knight, Barry Clark, Michael Rayner, Patricia Leonard, Donald Maxwell, Jill Pert, Gareth Jones, Oliver White, Rebecca Bottone, Ian Belsey and the Opera Babes. John Owen Edwards, David Russell Hulme, or David Steadman often serve as musical director of the company. Sky Arts calls these performers \"some of the UK’s finest exponents of musical theatre\". Raymond J. Walker wrote of the National G&S Opera Company:\n\nUniquely among professional companies in Britain, other than D'Oyly Carte, the National G&S Opera Company has presented all 13 of the extant Savoy Operas. \"The Daily Telegraph\" \"thoroughly enjoyed [the company's] spirited production\" of \"Utopia, Limited\" in 2011, an opera that has rarely been given a professional staging in Britain over the past century. In 2012 the Festival mounted the first full-scale professional production with orchestra of \"The Grand Duke\" in Britain since the 19th century. In recent years, the company has produced at least three productions at each Festival, giving a total of up to 16 performances there, while the other professional companies give a few performances each.\n\nIn 2010, the National G&S Opera Company presented its first production outside of the Festival, \"The Yeomen of the Guard\", at Oxford Castle. Two of its 2012 productions were repeated in Harrogate, and all three of its 2013 productions transferred there after the Festival. In 2014, the company began touring its productions in repertory from June to August 2014, giving performances in each of six cities. A review of the opening night of the 2014 tour praised the direction, choreography and conducting of \"The Pirates of Penzance\" and said of the company: \nThey are a real find with strong production values, a great orchestra and first class singing. Musically, this is a very strong show. It all looks marvellous with picture book settings and eye catching costumes plus a full and energetic cast. ... It all works superbly with a company obviously enjoying themselves. The chorus work is top notch, and they all come across as individuals.\n\nThe National G&S Opera Company has staged four productions in Harrogate each summer since 2015, also touring them to other cities and towns, including Buxton. In 2018, in connection with the 25th anniversary of the Festival, the company presented six productions, including the first professional production of \"Haddon Hall\" since the 19th century.\n\nAll of the competition performances and the weekend professional performances are given on the Festival's main stage. From 1994 to 2013, that was the Frank Matcham-designed 900-seat Buxton Opera House. Beginning in 2014, the main stage has been the 1,100-seat Royal Hall in Harrogate, another Matcham-designed theatre. These performances are nearly always accompanied by the \"National Festival Orchestra\". A review of a 2010 performance noted, \"The music was up to [the Festival's] usual high standard, with the orchestra (leader, Sally Robinson) ... giving a superb and sprightly reading of the Overture and score throughout.\" The Festival also hosts dozens of performances and fringe activities in smaller venues. In Buxton, these included the 360-seat Pavilion Arts Centre. In Harrogate, some fringe performances have been held in the 500-seat Harrogate Theatre and others at various venues in and around the town, including at the Festival's purpose-built Savoy theatre.\n\nThe \"fringe\" activities have included performances, master classes and lectures by members of the original D'Oyly Carte Opera Company (such as Valerie Masterson, Thomas Round, Gillian Knight, Kenneth Sandford, John Ayldon and John Reed) and other professionals, and a late night Festival Club, where cabaret performances are given each evening after the opera, and sometimes a G&S singalong is conducted. Recent years have included scholarly symposia, and rarely revived works by Gilbert or separately by Sullivan are also seen. There is also a G&S memorabilia fair, providing a chance for collectors and gift hunters to buy and sell G&S recordings, DVDs, books, scores, figurines and other items of interest. Fringe events also include recitals, concerts, lectures and productions of lesser-known works by Gilbert without Sullivan, Sullivan without Gilbert, works that played as companion pieces with the Gilbert and Sullivan operas during their original productions and other Victorian and Edwardian works.\n\nThe Festival serves as a \"lightning-rod\" of G&S activity worldwide. G&S performers and audiences from one part of the world can see performances by groups from other parts of the world. Performances in the traditional style mix with \"avant garde\" ones, and G&S scholars can communicate with a wide audience of enthusiasts.\n\nA feature in \"Gilbert & Sullivan News\" noted: \"The amateur performances were of a very high standard. ... There is a lovely atmosphere ... of Gilbert and Sullivan thriving, being enjoyed, and drawing everyone together as a family.\" The Festival has developed \"a reputation for being one of the friendliest musical festivals anywhere, with people returning year after year to soak up its special atmosphere.\"\n\nIn addition, the Festival aims to raise awareness and funds for its organizers' efforts to re-introduce G&S into British schools. The Festival has been featured in several British television shows and in the documentary films \"Oh Mad Delight\" and \"A Source of Innocent Merriment\". Sky Arts broadcast its features about the Festival and Gilbert and Sullivan several times in 2010.\n\nRecordings on DVD of most of the amateur and professional productions that have been seen at the Festival, as well as for some of the fringe events, are produced by the Festival organizers. Some of the Festival's professional shows are also available on CD.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15390553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15390553", "title": "Laurel and Hardy (TV series)", "text": "Laurel and Hardy (TV series)\n\nLaurel and Hardy is an American animated television series and an updated version of Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy's comedic acts by the animation studio Hanna-Barbera from Hal Roach. A total of 156 shorts were made, each having its own opening and closing wrap-arounds, to make them easy to air in syndication. In a majority of the cartoons, after Laurel and Hardy get into a mess of trouble, almost each one of them ends with Laurel whimpering in a high register. As both Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy had died by the time of this series (Laurel died a year before the series went to air), Larry Harmon (who also produced the cartoons) and Jim MacGeorge respectively provided the voices of Stan and Ollie. They would later reprise their roles in an episode of \"The New Scooby-Doo Movies\".\n\nAdditional Voices: Hal Smith, Don Messick, Janet Waldo, Paul Frees, Doug Young, Allan Melvin\n\n\n\n\n\nFrom 1969–1974, Thorpe & Porter in the United Kingdom published a color comic book series based on the \"Laurel & Hardy\" cartoon, which lasted 136 issues plus eight extra large issues.\n\nIn 1972, DC Comics published a single issue of a comic book series based on the \"Laurel and Hardy\" cartoon series. The cover for the unpublished second issue appears in \"The DC Vault\".\n\nCongress Video Group released two volumes containing episodes from this cartoon series.\nVolume 1 contained the following episodes: \"Can't Keep a Secret Agent\", \"How Green Was My Lawn Mower\", \"Handle With Care\", \"Camera Bugged\", \"Plumber Pudding\", and \"Robust Robot\".\nVolume 2 contained the following episodes: \"Copper Bopper\", \"Feud For Thought\", \"Love Me, Love My Puppy\", \"Squawking Squatter\", \"Goofy Gopher Goof-Up\", and \"Sassy Sea Serpent\".\n\nOn 6 November 2012, France released a four-disc DVD set of the complete series; it included 68 episodes in English with French subtitles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21553168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21553168", "title": "List of economic crises", "text": "List of economic crises\n\nThis is a list of economic crisis and depressions.\n\nThe result of the mass issuance of unsecured loans by main Roman banking houses.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48033807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48033807", "title": "List of incidents of violence against women", "text": "List of incidents of violence against women\n\nThis is a list of incidents of violence against women. The cases are sorted by country and year.\nSince there is no record of such acts, you can help by expanding it.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn the last decade about 700 women have been killed in Spain by their partners or ex-partners in cases of violence against women. Since 1999, the number of killed women is over 1,000.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7552208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7552208", "title": "Lyric Theatre (Hammersmith)", "text": "Lyric Theatre (Hammersmith)\n\nThe Lyric Theatre, also known as the Lyric Hammersmith, is a theatre in King Street, in the London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham, which takes pride in its original, \"groundbreaking\" productions.\n\nThe Lyric Theatre was originally a music hall established in 1888 on Bradmore Grove, Hammersmith. Success as an entertainment venue led it to be rebuilt and enlarged on the same site twice, firstly in 1890 and then in 1895 by the English theatrical architect Frank Matcham. The 1895 re-opening, as The New Lyric Opera House, was accompanied by an opening address by the famous actress Lillie Langtry. In 1966 the theatre was due to be closed and demolished. However, a successful campaign to save it led to the auditorium being dismantled and re-installed piece by piece within a modern shell on its current site on King Street a short distance from the former Bradmore Grove location. The relocated theatre opened in 1979.\n\nIt has two main performance areas: the \"Main House\", a 550-seat 19th-century auditorium maintaining the original design which hosts its main productions; and the 120-seat \"Studio\", which houses smaller productions by up-and-coming companies. The Lyric also presents frequent \"Lyric Children\" and \"Lyric Music\" performances as well as \"Sunday Night Comedy\".\n\nIts current artistic director is Sean Holmes, and its executive director is Sian Alexander.\n\nThe Lyric has recently gone through a major re-development project, with new facilities for young people and the local community completed in 2015, designed by Rick Mather Architects and was nominated in the 'community benefit' and 'tourism and leisure' categories at the RICS Awards 2016, London.\n\nIn 2011, the Lyric won the Olivier Award for Outstanding Achievement in an Affiliate Theatre for Sean Holmes' production of Sarah Kane's \"Blasted\".\n\nIn September 2018, it was announced that Sean Holmes would be succeeded as artistic director in February 2019 by Rachel O'Riordan.\n\nThe Lyric's programme is divided into five strands:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21196814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21196814", "title": "MAMA &amp; Company", "text": "MAMA &amp; Company\n\nMAMA & Company is a live music and lifestyle entertainment company which was founded in 2005 and owns and operates a number of live music venues and festivals in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe company owns six London venues and three regional venues: Hoxton Square Bar and Kitchen, The Forum in Kentish Town, The Garage in Islington, The Institute in Birmingham, The Ritz in Manchester and The Arts Club in Liverpool. The venues range in capacities from 300 to 2,300.\n\nIn addition, MAMA operates festivals and events which include Lovebox (London), Wilderness (Oxfordshire), The Great Escape (Brighton), Somersault (North Devon), GlobalGathering (Stratford-upon-Avon), Godskitchen and Future Gods events.\n\nOn 11 June 2007, the company purchased the Hammersmith Apollo and The Forum. The same year, MAMA Group acquired Mean Fiddler Holdings Limited the company which owned The Jazz Café, The Garage, The Borderline and held a majority share in G-A-Y.\n\nOn 6 March 2008, the group acquired The Picture House, Edinburgh from Luminar Liquid Limited, a subsidiary of Luminar Group Holdings plc. On 1 April 2008 MAMA acquired The Institute, Birmingham and on 13 June 2008, they acquired a majority share in Global Gathering Group Limited (formerly Angel Music Group Limited), the company which owns GlobalGathering, Godskitchen and Future Gods brands. MAMA acquired 100% of Global Gathering Group Limited in 2011.\n\nOn 22 September 2008, MAMA Group acquired Heaven (London) Limited, the company which owns the leasehold of the Heaven Nightclub.\n\nOn 15 January 2009, HMV Group purchased a 50 percent stake in MAMA Group. The new company, Mean Fiddler Group Limited, operated 11 venues across the United Kingdom, including the Hammersmith Apollo, The Forum in Kentish Town, The Garage, Jazz Café, The Edinburgh Picture House, Digbeth Institute in Birmingham, Heaven, G-A-Y Bar, G-A-Y Late, The Borderline and Aberdeen’s Moshulu. In January 2010 HMV bought the whole of the MAMA Group in a deal worth £46m.\n\nHMV sold the Hammersmith Apollo to AEG Live and Eventim UK in May 2012 for £32 million. It sold the remainder of MAMA & Company to management backed by Lloyds Development Capital in December 2012 for £7.3 million, which also included the company's 50% stake in Mean Fiddler Group (excluding Heaven and the G-A-Y businesses).\n\nMAMA acquired East Village Arts Club (formerly The Masque), Liverpool on 5 February 2013 and Hoxton Square Bar and Kitchen on 13 March 2013.\n\nIn 2015, MAMA was acquired by LN-Gaity, a joint venture of Live Nation UK and the parent company of MCD Productions. According to the reports three MAMA venues, the Ritz in Manchester, the Forum in Kentish Town and the Institute in Birmingham, would be rebranded by Live Nation as the O2 Ritz Manchester, O2 Forum Kentish town and O2 Institute Birmingham.\n"}
{"id": "4918371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4918371", "title": "MerleFest", "text": "MerleFest\n\nMerleFest is an annual \"traditional plus\" music festival held in Wilkesboro, North Carolina on the campus of Wilkes Community College. The festival, which is held the last weekend in April, was hosted by Grammy Award winner Doc Watson prior to his death and is named in memory and honor of his son, Eddy Merle Watson, who died in a farm tractor accident in 1985.\n\nThe festival, founded in 1988, is the primary fundraising event for Wilkes Community College and attracts crowds consistently exceeding 75,000 in number, making it one of the largest music festivals in the United States. It is estimated that the festival brings over $10 million in business and tourist revenue to Wilkes County and surrounding areas each year. \n\nThe music is spread across 13 different stages and four days, which provides festival visitors with a wide variety of musical venues, groups, and styles to choose from. MerleFest offers a mix of traditional and contemporary roots music, a music blend that Doc himself named \"traditional plus.\" It brings together Bluegrass, contemporary acoustic, blues, folk, old-time music, Cajun, jazz, country, Celtic, Americana, rock and singer-songwriter music. Artists can often be enjoyed in on-stage jam sessions featuring unusual combinations of musicians, such as Bob Weir, formerly of the Grateful Dead singing with Sam Bush and Gillian Welch with the Waybacks. \nOther artists who have performed on MerleFest's 14 stages over the first 24 years have included Dolly Parton, Willie Nelson, Earl Scruggs, The Kruger Brothers, Carolina Chocolate Drops, John Prine, Alison Krauss and Union Station, Donna the Buffalo, Natalie MacMaster, Vassar Clements, Hot Tuna, Joe Smothers, Alan Jackson, Darius Rucker, David Grisman, Ricky Skaggs, Emmylou Harris, Jerry Douglas, Del McCoury, Billy Strings, Junior Brown, Mary Chapin Carpenter, Claire Lynch, Elvis Costello, Howard Armstrong, Randy Travis, Lyle Lovett, The Doobie Brothers, Robert Plant and the Band of Joy, Sharon Gilchrist, The Avett Brothers, Tony Rice, Francois Vola, Emory lester, Old Crow Medicine Show, Steve Martin and the Steep Canyon Rangers, Zac Brown Band, Dierks Bentley, Linda Ronstadt, Levon Helm, Taj Mahal, Bruce Hornsby, Cadillac Sky and Vince Gill. It started in 1988 and was founded by Doc Watson.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "18486693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18486693", "title": "Milan Fashion Week", "text": "Milan Fashion Week\n\nMilan Fashion Week () is a clothing trade show held semi-annually in Milan, Italy. The autumn/winter event is held in February/March of each year, and the spring/summer event is held in September/October of each year.\n\nMilan Fashion Week, established in 1958, is part of the global \"Big Four fashion weeks\", the others being Paris Fashion Week, London Fashion Week and New York Fashion Week. The schedule begins with New York, followed by London, and then Milan, and ending with Paris. \n\nMilan Fashion Week is partially organized by (The National Chamber for Italian Fashion), a non-profit association which disciplines, co-ordinates and promotes the development of Italian fashion and is responsible for hosting the fashion events and shows of Milan. The , was set up on 11 June 1958. This was the forerunner of the body which subsequently became the . \n\nProprietors of the most important establishments in Italy, including some private establishments, which, in those days, played a crucial role in the promotion of this sector, were present at the Memorandum of Association: Roberto Capucci, Emilio Schuberth, Maria Antonelli, Princess Caracciolo Ginnetti, Alberto Fagiani, Giovanni Cesare Guidi, Germana Marucelli, Simonetta Colonna Di Cesarò, Jole Veneziani, Francesco Borrello, Giovanni Battista Giorgini, and the lawyer Pietro Parisio.\n\nThe events dedicated to women's fashion are the most important (Womenswear / Milan SS Women Ready to Wear, and Milano Moda Donna being the major fashion shows). The summer events dedicated to men include Menswear and Milano Moda Uomo. \n\nIn 2013 the autumn/winter Milan Fashion Week started on 20 January with Paola Frani, and was followed by shows from major fashion houses such as Armani, Roberto Cavalli, Dolce & Gabbana, Etro, Fendi, Ferragamo, Gucci, Jil Sander, Marni, Max Mara, Missoni, Moschino, Philipp Plein, Prada, Pucci, John Richmond, Tod's, Versace etc. but also by shows from new labels and younger designers such as Au jour le jour, Cristiano Burani, Gabriele Colangelo, Marco De Vincenzo, Stella Jean, Chicca Lualdi, MSGM, N°21, Fausto Puglisi, Francesco Scognamiglio etc. On 20 November 2013, Giorgio Armani announced he has decided to join the Italian Chamber of Fashion.\n\nIn April 2015, Carlo Capasa was named president of the Camera Nazionale Della Moda Italiana.\n\nCertain shows are not held in conjunction with the Camera Nazionale Della Moda Italiana, including Dolce & Gabbana. The Camera Nazionale Della Moda Italiana has also been sharply criticized by designers such as Cavalli.\n\nMilan fashion week including more than 40 shows each season transforms the city into a touristic hob by simply creating various venues for the shows selecting the most elegant and influential palaces to become the stage for design. Example of location are Palazzo Reale, palazzo serbelloni and many others.\n\nIn 2014 Greenpeace protested to demand \"toxic-free fashion\" by hanging signs in the Galleria Vittorio Emanuele II. Chiara Campione of Greenpeace Italy said the demonstration was set up to \"...ask Italian brands, especially Versace, because it has the highest level of hazardous chemicals in its products, to publicly commit to eliminate harmful substances from the various stages of production.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41206737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41206737", "title": "Nedeljnik", "text": "Nedeljnik\n\nNedeljnik (Serbian Cyrillic: Недељник) is a weekly newsmagazine published in Belgrade, Serbia.\n\nSince October 2012 \"Nedeljnik\" has been published by an independent group of journalists, who are also the magazine’s founders.\n\nThe publishers of \"Nedeljnik\" consider its primary audience to be urban and educated people. There is particularly large popularity/interest for the interviews with the world leaders/influencers, which have been, for years, ignored in Serbia. Nedeljnik published interviews with Lech Walesa, Noam Chomsky, Steve Forbes, Michael Bloomberg, Carla del Ponte, Romano Prodi, and similar. Nedeljnik also interviewed the most influential Serbian politicians and intellectuals, and provided reports such as the ‘confession’ of Boris Tadić in Visoki Dečani or the first national interview of the then newly appointed President of Serbia, Tomislav Nikolić.\nOne of the most popular columns in the magazine is OTVORENO (open), which invites prominent people, intellectuals and politicians to write their views and commentaries. So far, the Prime Minister of Serbia Ivica Dačić, in the New Year’s edition, wrote about new Serbian patriotism and kept diary twice during his state visits (once from Washington and the other time from the Olympic Games in London), Serbian President Tomislav Nikolić wrote a diary from Rome, there was a text by the President of the Republic Srpska Milorad Dodik, but also other leading people in business, culture and science.\n\nNedeljnik published a lot of interviews with influential persons from Serbia and the region, as well as the world-wide famous people, such as: Noam Chomsky, Julian Assange, Toni Morrison, Francis Fukuyama, Khaled Hosseini, Morrissey...\n\nOne of the prominent interviews was one with famous former NBA all-star Vlade Divac in which declared he was leaving Serbia with a great deal of disappointment.\n\nNedeljnik also published interviews with great deal of world wide famous basketball players and coaches: Željko Obradović, Dušan Ivković, Božidar Maljković, Igor Kokoškov, Predrag Danilović, Saša Đorđević, Žarko Paspalj...\n\nIn 2017, Nedeljnik's reporter Dragan Krsnik uncovered the illegal practices of employing Serbian workers in the factories in Slovakia, with false employment contracts and no social security or health insurance. \n\nNedeljnik publishes four supplements every month. One of them is The New York Times International Edition (a licensed publication done in cooperation with The New York Times), Le Monde diplomatique (a French left-wing magazine), and Original magazine, published in partnership with the Novak Djokovic Foundation.\n\nFrom January 2018, the digital edition of The New York Times International Report is available on Nedeljnik's website.\n\nAwards:\n\n2015. Veljko Lalić, editor in chief of Nedeljnik won award for best editor in the country from a national association of journalists (Journalists Association of Serbia)\n\n2016. Marko Prelević, managing editor of Nedeljnik won award for columnist of the year\n\n2017. Nenad Čaluković, political editor of Nedeljnik won award for the interview of the year\n\n2017. Dragan Krsnik won the award for investigative reportage\n\n2017. Her majesty, The Queen of England decorated Branko Rosić, managing editor of Nedeljnik, with Medal of The British Empire, for his lifetime contribution in creating cultural ties between the two countries.\n\nIn 2015. Nedeljnik launched new daily website. Web site Nedeljnik.rs was named as one of the top 5 best news web sites in the country for 2017 in a ranking conducted by magazine \"PCPRESS\".\n\nVeljko Lalic (editor-in-chief of Nedeljnik) is one of the most awarded Serbian journalist. He was the youngest winner of the biggest journalist award \"Dimitrije Davidovic” for editors (Dimitrije Davidovic is considered to be the pioneer of Serbian journalism) from The Journalists Association of Serbia, in 2015. \n\nHe also received \"Laza Kostic\" for feuilleton in 2004, also as the youngest, gold medal \"Misa Anastasijevic\" in 2010 for the best manager from the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, \"The man of the year\" award for the best columnist in 2010, elected by all his colleagues and prominent persons, \"Dragisa Kasikovic\" for his expending of freedom in 2015 and many other awards and recognitions. \n\nInitially, starting in late December 2011, \"Nedeljnik\" was published as a weekly supplement to the \"Press\" daily newspaper, posting circulation of 100,000 copies per edition. From October 2012, after breaking away from the fading \"Press\" and becoming a standalone weekly news magazine. Its current circulation is between 25,000 and 30,000 copies, while it sells around 20,000 copies.\n\nIt is the only newsmagazine in Serbia registered at the Audit Bureaux of Circulations (ABC) Serbia, which verifies and reports facts about circulations of publications and the related data.\n\n"}
{"id": "57772454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57772454", "title": "Nuclear Safeguards Act 2018", "text": "Nuclear Safeguards Act 2018\n\nThe Nuclear Safegards Act 2018 (c. 15) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom that makes legal provision to enable the continuation of nuclear safeguards after the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Atomic Energy Community as part the implementation of the country's exit from the European Union (Brexit). The Act received Royal Assent on 26 June 2018, coincidently on the same day as the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018 to which it contains several references.\n\n"}
{"id": "30780647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30780647", "title": "Outraging public decency", "text": "Outraging public decency\n\nOutraging public decency is a common law offence in England and Wales and Hong Kong. It is punishable by unlimited imprisonment and/or an unlimited fine.\n\nModern case law has established two elements that must be satisfied for the offence to have been committed:\n\nThe offence is currently prosecuted around 400-500 times per year in England and Wales.\n\nIn December 1987 an artist, Rick Gibson, exhibited a pair of earrings made with freeze-dried human foetuses at the Young Unknowns Gallery in London. On Thursday 3 December 1987 the earrings were seized by the Metropolitan Police Service.\n\nOn Monday 11 April 1988, on the advice of the Crown Prosecution Service, Gibson and the gallery owner, Peter Sylveire, were formally charged with the common law offences of exhibiting a public nuisance and outraging public decency. This was the first occasion on which the charge of outraging public decency had been preferred in more than 80 years. \nThe trial started on Monday 30 January 1989 at the Old Bailey. The judge was Brian Smedley, Michael Worsley was the prosecuting barrister, and Geoffrey Robertson and Francis Irwin were the defence barristers. On 6 February 1989 the public nuisance charge was dismissed.\n\nA point of law was raised by the defence, which argued that \"outraging public decency\" was no longer known in law so long after the last occasion on which the charge had been preferred. The judge ruled that it could still be preferred no matter how long the hiatus, provided the facts fitted the offence.\n\nOn Tuesday 9 February 1989 the jury found Gibson and Sylveire guilty of outraging public decency. Gibson was fined £500 and Sylveire was fined £300.\n\nAn appeal by the defence, on the point of the validity of the charge of outraging public decency, was dismissed by the Court of Appeal, which upheld the trial judge's ruling and went some way to restating the law in this area.\n"}
{"id": "50947877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50947877", "title": "Pawtoberfest", "text": "Pawtoberfest\n\nPawtoberfest is a fundraising event organized by the Humane Society of the Pikes Peak Region. Consisting of a 5K run/walk followed by an outdoor festival, this event currently takes place in Colorado Springs, Colorado during September. Bear Creek Regional Park is the current location of this multi-faceted event. As of 2015, the race and festival have accumulated over 1,200 attendees (along with one or two canine companions each).\n\nPawtoberfest was conceived as a promotional event by the HSPPR in an effort to encourage local pet adoption. The first Pawtoberfest in 2009 consisted of the K9-5K (then considered a separate event) on the streets of downtown Colorado Springs, followed by a festival on the porch of the Nosh restaurant. In 2010 and 2011, the event was held at America the Beautiful Park. Although typically an outdoor event, the festival portion of Pawtoberfest was held in the Norris-Penrose Event Center in 2012 due to weather complications. Subsequent races have been hosted by Bear Creek Regional Park; however, the event center is still utilized for its parking lot. A dog-friendly shuttle service is offered to take participants to the start line, or directly to the festival.\nAnimal Planet acknowledged Pawtoberfest in its Top 10 Dog Festivals Summer Happy Everything list within its first few years. More recently, several local Starbucks employees volunteered as an Starbucks Community Service project.\n"}
{"id": "1400654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1400654", "title": "Pirelli World Challenge", "text": "Pirelli World Challenge\n\nThe Blancpain GT World Challenge America is a North American auto racing series launched in 1990 by the Sports Car Club of America. It is managed by the Stephane Ratel Organisation since 2018, and is sanctioned by the United States Auto Club since 2017. \n\nThe series consists of seven driver classifications and six classes of vehicles: Grand Touring (GT for professionals, GTA for amateurs), Grand Touring Sport, consisting of Group GT4 specification vehicles (GTS for professionals, GTSA for amateurs), and Touring Car, consisting of TCR homologated cars, as well as separate classes featuring modified production vehicles, such as the BMW M235iR and the Mazda MX-5 Cup car.\n\nThe Sports Car Club of America created a \"showroom stock\" class for amateur club racing in 1972. In 1984, following the success of the Longest Day of Nelson and another 24-hour race at Mid-Ohio, the SCCA combined existing races into a manufacturer's championship. For 1985, the series became a 6-race professional championship with sponsorship from \"Playboy\" magazine. Escort radar detectors sponsored the series from 1986 until 1991.\n\nIn 1990, the series was officially named World Challenge and was restructured to adopt rules similar to the European Group A for homologated production cars. The higher-cost \"sports\" classes were dropped after 1996, leaving the class format as it would stand until 2010. Speed TV network began sponsoring the series in 1999. With fields growing, the series began separate races for the GT and Touring classes in 2000, which would remain until 2010. In 2010, the series moved away from the partnership with SPEED, and signed a broadcast partnership with Versus (now NBCSN) for coverage. The series moved existing touring cars into a new GTS class, while changing the rules for the touring car class to reduce costs and keep cars closer to stock.\n\nWith the SpeedVision television contract, the World Challenge eventually succeeded Trans Am as the SCCA's premier series.\n\nIn July 2008, the World Challenge series was purchased by WC Vision, a group of investors. The Sports Car Club of America remained the sanctioning partner of the series.\n\nStarting with the 2011 season, the series signed a partnership with Pirelli and the leading tire manufacturer became the official tire supplier and title sponsor of the series.\n\nIn 2014, the Pirelli World Challenge established a GT-A classification similar to the FIA's bronze category.\n\nIn 2015, the series established GT Cup, featuring Porsche 991 Cup Cars that ran as part of the overall GT class races. Also, CBS Sports Network and Motor Trend On Demand became the new television partners.\n\nIn 2016, the series established SprintX classes of racing featuring two-driver sprint races for several driver classes. As part of the partnership with the SRO, the GTS class was expanded to include GT4 homologations.\n\nFor 2017, the Pirelli World Challenge transferred to USAC as its sanctioning body. GT Cup class is expanding to include Cup cars from Lamborghini and Ferrari, while SprintX classes expand in both driver classification specificity and competition-legal platforms.\n\nOn May 25th, 2018, it was announced that the Stéphane Ratel Organisation had become majority shareholder of WC Vision LLC, and thus majority owner of Pirelli World Challenge.\n\nOn September 29, 2018, it was announced the series acquired a new title sponsor as part of the overhaul of the Ratel series. The GT Sprint Cup in Europe and GT Series Asia will now be known as the Blancpain GT World Challenge Europe and Asia, respectively. The current World Challenge will become World Challenge America.\n\nEach season consists of upwards of 12 event weekends and between 10-20 rounds or races. Some rounds or race use a standing start, as opposed to the all rolling starts seen in other sports car racing series. Each race has a maximum 50 minute time limit. In 2017, the series will begin the season at the Streets of St. Petersburg (Mar. 10-12). GT/GTA classes will compete across 5 event weekends and 9 total races or rounds. GT Cup will compete across 4 event weekends and 8 total races or rounds, while GTS will compete across nine event weekends and 18 total races. TC, TCA and TCB teams will compete across six event weekends and 12 total races or rounds. SprintX classes will compete across 5 weekends with 10 total races.\n\nThe allowed body styles within this class are coupe, sedan and convertible. The cars permitted in GT are typically sold in the market as “sports” cars, “sport-touring” cars, or performance versions of “luxury” cars. Forced induction is permitted on cars that come equipped with forced induction stock, or on cars that the series has determined need help reaching the target horsepower range. Power output ranges from 500 hp to 600 hp. Weight varies depending on power output and tire size. All of the vehicles in GT are rear-wheel drive, or all-wheel drive. FIA GT3 class cars are now approved to compete in the class starting in 2013.\n\nA \"GTA\" (\"GT Amateur\") driver class that debuted in 2014. It is a designation to recognize gentlemen drivers that compete in the GT class.\n\nThis spec class debuted in 2015 featuring Porsche 991 Cup Cars that are ran as part of the overall GT Class races, with a separate victory circle presentation alongside that of the GT/GT-A class winners. In 2017 the class is to be expanded to include Lamborghini Huracan Super Trofeo and Ferrari 488 Challenge cars.\n\nThe allowed body styles within this class are coupe, sedan and convertible. The cars permitted in GTS are typically marketed as “sports cars”, “sport-touring cars” or performance versions of “luxury” cars but at a lower permissible preparation level than GT. Forced induction is permitted on cars that come equipped with forced induction stock. Power output ranges from 300-400 hp. Weight varies depending on power output and tire size. Front-wheel, rear-wheel, and all-wheel drive configurations are permitted. As of 2017, the class rules fully mimic the FIA GT4 formula. Models include the Ford Mustang, Chevrolet Camaro, Acura TSX, Audi TT, Porsche Cayman, Kia Optima, Nissan 370Z and Scion FR-S.\n\nThe allowed body styles in this class are coupes, hatchbacks, wagons, sedans. Power output ranges from approximately 300 hp. Weight varies depending on the power output of the individual drivetrain configurations. Front-wheel, rear-wheel, and all-wheel drive configurations are permitted. Forced induction may be allowed on cars that have forced induction systems available from the manufacturer which do not void the factory warranties.\n\nEstablished in 2014, this class is an evolution of the current TC class with an emphasis on maintaining cost effectiveness while providing an easy avenue to entry into professional racing. Performance modifications will be limited to mainly chassis tuning. Front wheel and rear wheel drive configurations are permitted. Target power output is 220 crank hp from non-modified stock engines. Forced induction maybe allowed on cars that have forced induction systems available from the manufacturer as a stock engine option. Examples of eligible cars include the Honda Civic SI, Mazda MX-5, Ford Focus, Scion FR-S and Kia Forte.\n\nThese are smaller cars with small, efficient, naturally aspirated motors (target HP is 125). Modifications are limited to manufacturer specified performance spring and shocks to keep overall cost down. Cars competing in TCB are prepared to the SCCA Club Racing B Spec rules. Cars eligible include the Fiat 500, Ford Fiesta, Mazda 2, Mini Cooper, Chevrolet Sonic, Honda Fit, Kia Rio, and Nissan Versa.\nThe class was discontinued after the 2017 season.\n\nOn May 28, 2015 WC Vision announced an extended sprint format series in addition to its existing Sprint format racing series in 2016, which was a standalone championship supporting the Pirelli World Challenge at all headliner events. For 2017, SprintX races continue to be 60 minutes in length and feature mandatory driver and tire changes.\n\nStarting in 2009, older World Challenge cars became eligible (with minor modifications) for competition in SCCA racing. Under the SCCA's General Competition Rules (GCR), the Super Touring category allows World Challenge GTs to compete in STO and Touring cars to compete in STU. In 2013 the STO class was merged into the T1 and GT2 classes.\n\nSpeed TV network televised the World Challenge starting in 1996, with the series being called the SPEED World Challenge until 2010.\n\nNear the end of the broadcast partnership with SPEED, the World Challenge had been broadcast on weekdays as opposed to the traditional weekends. For 2009, the races were combined into an hour-long block.\n\nOn January 4, 2010, Versus (now NBC Sports Network) announced they would televise 90-minute broadcasts beginning in the 2010 season. Each broadcast featured all the races from each round. The entire 2010 season was shown on the channel. The series later returned to weekend telecasts.\n\nStarting in 2015, CBS Sports Network announced that it acquired television rights to the series. Torque.TV, later Motor Trend On Demand partnered with CBS Sports Network for the race broadcasts to stream all races live on their website as well as on World-ChallengeTV.com. CBS Sports Network will have at least 1 race with live television coverage with Detroit being the first round announced to have live coverage.\n\nThe series has also established a section on its official site where fans can watch archived race and in-car video, as well as an increasing amount of archived television broadcasts of events prior to the 2016 season. The website currently has coverage from as far back as 2008.\n\nOn October 4, 2010, the series announced that Pirelli would replace longtime partner Toyo Tires as the exclusive tire supplier for the series. For the first time in series history, teams competed on racing slicks (Pirelli P Zero) rather than the DOT competition tires in use for much of its history. In January 2014, Pirelli Tire North America and WC Vision extended the partnership for an additional five years. The extension of the partnership between the tire brand and the top production car-based racing series will run through the 2018 season.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1965727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1965727", "title": "Presupposition", "text": "Presupposition\n\nIn the branch of linguistics known as pragmatics, a presupposition (or PSP) is an implicit assumption about the world or background belief relating to an utterance whose truth is taken for granted in discourse. Examples of presuppositions include:\n\nA presupposition must be mutually known or assumed by the speaker and addressee for the utterance to be considered appropriate in context. It will generally remain a necessary assumption whether the utterance is placed in the form of an assertion, denial, or question, and can be associated with a specific lexical item or grammatical feature (presupposition trigger) in the utterance.\n\nCrucially, negation of an expression does not change its presuppositions: \"I want to do it again\" and \"I don't want to do it again\" both presuppose that the subject has done it already one or more times; \"My wife is pregnant\" and \"My wife is not pregnant\" both presuppose that the subject has a wife. In this respect, presupposition is distinguished from entailment and implicature. For example, \"The president was assassinated\" entails that \"The president is dead\", but if the expression is negated, the entailment is not necessarily true.\n\nIf presuppositions of a sentence are not consistent with the actual state of affairs, then one of two approaches can be taken. Given the sentences \"My wife is pregnant\" and \"My wife is not pregnant\" when one has no wife, then either:\n\nBertrand Russell tries to solve this dilemma with two interpretations of the negated sentence:\n\nFor the first phrase, Russell would claim that it is false, whereas the second would be true according to him.\n\nA presupposition of a part of an utterance is sometimes also a presupposition of the whole utterance, and sometimes not. For instance, the phrase \"my wife\" triggers the presupposition that I have a wife. The first sentence below carries that presupposition, even though the phrase occurs inside an embedded clause. In the second sentence, however, it does not. John might be mistaken about his belief that I have a wife, or he might be deliberately trying to misinform his audience, and this has an effect on the meaning of the second sentence, but, perhaps surprisingly, not on the first one.\nThus, this seems to be a property of the main verbs of the sentences, \"think\" and \"say\", respectively. After work by Lauri Karttunen, verbs that allow presuppositions to \"pass up\" to the whole sentence (\"project\") are called holes, and verbs that block such passing up, or \"projection\" of presuppositions are called plugs. Some linguistic environments are intermediate between plugs and holes: They block some presuppositions and allow others to project. These are called filters. An example of such an environment are indicative conditionals (\"If-then\" clauses). A conditional sentence contains an \"antecedent\" and a \"consequent\". The antecedent is the part preceded by the word \"if,\" and the consequent is the part that is (or could be) preceded by \"then.\" If the consequent contains a presupposition trigger, and the triggered presupposition is explicitly stated in the antecedent of the conditional, then the presupposition is blocked. Otherwise, it is allowed to project up to the entire conditional. Here is an example:\nHere, the presupposition triggered by the expression \"my wife\" (that I have a wife) is blocked, because it is stated in the antecedent of the conditional: That sentence doesn't imply that I have a wife. In the following example, it is not stated in the antecedent, so it is allowed to project, i.e. the sentence \"does\" imply that I have a wife.\nHence, conditional sentences act as \"filters\" for presuppositions that are triggered by expressions in their consequent.\n\nA significant amount of current work in semantics and pragmatics is devoted to a proper understanding of when and how presuppositions project.\n\nA presupposition trigger is a lexical item or linguistic construction which is responsible for the presupposition. The following is a selection of presuppositional triggers following Stephen C. Levinson's classic textbook on \"Pragmatics\", which in turn draws on a list produced by Lauri Karttunen. As is customary, the presuppositional triggers themselves are italicized, and the symbol » stands for 'presupposes'.\n\nDefinite descriptions are phrases of the form \"the X\" where X is a noun phrase. The description is said to be \"proper\" when the phrase applies to exactly one object, and conversely, it is said to be \"improper\" when either there exist more than one potential referents, as in \"the senator from Ohio\", or none at all, as in \"the king of France\". In conventional speech, definite descriptions are implicitly assumed to be proper, hence such phrases trigger the presupposition that the referent is unique and existent.\n\nIn Western epistemology, there is a tradition originating with Plato of defining knowledge as justified true belief. On this definition, for someone to know X, it is required that X be true. A linguistic question thus arises regarding the usage of such phrases: does a person who states \"John knows X\" implicitly claim the truth of X? Steven Pinker explored this question in a popular science format in a 2007 book on language and cognition, using a widely publicized example from a speech by a U.S. president. A 2003 speech by George W. Bush included the line, \"British Intelligence has learned that Saddam Hussein recently sought significant quantities of uranium from Africa.\" Over the next few years, it became apparent that this intelligence lead was incorrect. But the way the speech was phrased, using a factive verb, implicitly framed the lead as truth rather than hypothesis. There is however a strong alternative view that \"factivity thesis\", the proposition that relational predicates having to do with knowledge, such as \"knows, learn, remembers,\" and \"realized\", presuppose the factual truth of their object, is incorrect.\n\nSome further factive predicates: \"know; be sorry that; be proud that; be indifferent that; be glad that; be sad that.\"\n\n\nSome further implicative predicates: \"X happened to V\"»X didn't plan or intend to \"V\"; \"X avoided Ving\"»X was expected to, or usually did, or ought to \"V\", etc.\n\n\nSome further change of state verbs: \"start; finish; carry on; cease; take\" (as in \"X took Y from Z\" » Y was at/in/with Z); \"leave; enter; come; go; arrive;\" etc.\n\n\nFurther iteratives: \"another time; to come back; restore; repeat; for the nth time.\"\n\n\nFurther temporal clause constructors: \"after; during; whenever; as\" (as in \"As John was getting up, he slipped\").\n\n\nComparisons and contrasts may be marked by stress (or by other prosodic means), by particles like \"too\", or by comparatives constructions.\n\n\nQuestions often presuppose what the assertive part of the question presupposes, but interrogative parts might introduce further presuppositions. There are three different types of questions: yes/no questions, alternative questions and WH-questions.\n\n\nA presupposition of a sentence must normally be part of the common ground of the utterance context (the shared knowledge of the interlocutors) in order for the sentence to be felicitous. Sometimes, however, sentences may carry presuppositions that are not part of the common ground and nevertheless be felicitous. For example, I can, upon being introduced to someone, out of the blue explain that \"my wife is a dentist,\" this without my addressee having ever heard, or having any reason to believe that I have a wife. In order to be able to interpret my utterance, the addressee must assume that I have a wife. This process of an addressee assuming that a presupposition is true, even in the absence of explicit information that it is, is usually called presupposition accommodation. We have just seen that presupposition triggers like \"my wife\" (definite descriptions) allow for such accommodation. In \"Presupposition and Anaphora: Remarks on the Formulation of the Projection Problem\", the philosopher Saul Kripke noted that some presupposition triggers do not seem to permit such accommodation. An example of that is the presupposition trigger too. This word triggers the presupposition that, roughly, something parallel to what is stated has happened. For example, if pronounced with emphasis on \"John\", the following sentence triggers the presupposition that somebody other than John had dinner in New York last night.\nBut that presupposition, as stated, is completely trivial, given what we know about New York. Several million people had dinner in New York last night, and that in itself doesn't satisfy the presupposition of the sentence. What is needed for the sentence to be felicitous is really that somebody relevant to the interlocutors had dinner in New York last night, and that this has been mentioned in the previous discourse, or that this information can be recovered from it. Presupposition triggers that disallow accommodation are called anaphoric presupposition triggers.\n\nCritical discourse analysis (CDA) seeks to identify presuppositions of an ideological nature. CDA is critical, not only in the sense of being analytical, but also in the ideological sense. \nVan Dijk (2003) says CDA \"primarily studies the way social power abuse, dominance, and inequality\" operate in speech acts (including written text)—\"text and talk\". Van Dijk describes CDA as written from a particular point of view: \"dissendent research\" aimed to \"expose\" and \"resist social inequality.\" One notable feature of ideological presuppositions researched in CDA is a concept termed synthetic personalisation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "917662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=917662", "title": "QuakeCon", "text": "QuakeCon\n\nQuakeCon is a yearly convention held by ZeniMax Media to celebrate and promote the major franchises of id Software and other studios owned by ZeniMax. It includes a large, paid, bring-your-own-computer (BYOC) LAN party event with a competitive tournament held every year in Dallas, Texas, USA. The event, which is named after id Software's game \"Quake\", sees thousands of gamers from all over the world attend every year to celebrate the company's gaming dynasty.\n\nThe event is highly dependent on volunteers to cover many aspects of the organization of the event. QuakeCon has historically had a reputation as the \"Woodstock of gaming\", and a week of \"peace, love, and rockets!\".\n\nQuakeCon originally grew out of a group of people on the EFnet IRC network, in channel #quake. As various regular visitors to the channel began expressing a desire to meet and game together in person, Jim Elson, a.k.a. \"H2H\", a gamer from the Dallas, Texas area with ties to the local Dallas-area gaming community, and Yossarian Holmberg, a.k.a. \"yossman\", a computer consultant from Waterloo, Ontario, Canada, came up with the idea of assembling at a hotel.\nThe original event name was actually '#quakecon', named after the IRC channel, though this quickly evolved into just 'QuakeCon'. Mr. Elson organized the bulk of the event for the first two years, until the number of people attending each year demanded a more organized approach. Volunteers grouped into teams to assist in the setup, troubleshooting, and tear down of the event's equipment and network.\n\n\nThe first event, in August 1996, was held at the Best Western hotel in Garland, Texas, a mile or two away from the id Software company offices. Starting with just 30 people, by the end of the weekend the number of people had grown to 100, as news of the gathering began to spread on Internet chat networks. The Best Western has since been replaced by a La Quinta Inn.\n\nAttendees who had brought their computers along to the event set up a small, impromptu network, in one of the hotel meeting rooms, playing mostly \"Quake I\" and \"Doom\", testing deathmatching skills. A small tournament was held, with winners taking home T-shirts as prizes.\n\nThe highlight of this first gathering came on the eve of the last day, when the entire id Software team showed up at the event in a surprise and most-welcome visit, stopping by to chat with the participants. John Carmack, lead programmer for \"Doom\"/\"Quake\", participated in a 30–45 min. group chat with attendees on the porch of the hotel. Some ideas discussed during that chat eventually made it into Quake's future public releases. This \"Carmack's Talk\" grew into a yearly keynote speech that lasted through 2013.\n\n\nQuake 1v1\n\nDoom 2 1v1\nQuakeCon 1997 brought an estimated 650 attendees to the Holiday Inn in Plano, Texas. It was covered by numerous Internet and broadcast media outlets, and was sponsored in part by id Software and Activision.\n\n\nQuake World 1v1\n\nQuakeCon 1998 was held in conjunction with the Cyberathlete Professional League. Due to poor planning and the lack of people who had helped make the first two events a success, QuakeCon 1998 is regarded by many as being only partially a QuakeCon event. However, it was instrumental in motivating a group of people to start planning QuakeCon 1999 early.\n\n\nQuake 2 1v1\n\nQuakeCon 1999 was the first event in which id Software played a major role in the organization. Recognizing that major sponsors were needed, David Miller a.k.a. \"Wino\" & Paul Horoky a.k.a. \"devilseye\", both original QuakeCon 1996 people, contacted id Software and convinced them to become the main sponsor, and to help out with finding more sponsors. Together with Anna Kang (then id Software employee, now John Carmack's wife) and a team of volunteers, Mr. Miller & Mr. Horoky set out to build QuakeCon 1999, which became the template for later years.\n\n\nFirst ever Quake 3 tournament\n\nQuakeCon 2000 \n\nQuake 3 1v1\n\nQuakeCon 2001 \n\nQuake 3 1v1\n\nQuakeCon 2002\nQuake 3 1v1\n\nReturn To Castle Wolfenstein\n\nQuakeCon 2003 \nQuake 3 1v1\n\nQuake 3 CTF\n\nReturn To Castle Wolfenstein\n\nQuakeCon 2004\n\nQuake 3 1v1\n\nQuake 3 CTF\n\nDoom 3 1v1\n\nQuakeCon 2005\n\nDoom 3 1v1\n\nMs. QuakeCon Quake 3 1v1\n\nQuake 2 Retro Tournament\n\nEnemy Territory\n\nIntel Doom 3 Deathmatch Tournament\n\nCreative Soundblaster Doom 3 Deathmatch Tournament\n\nQuake 4 Unveiling Tournament - 2vs2 Capture the Flag\n\nAlienware Performance Challenge\n\nQuakeCon 2006\n\nQuake 4 1v1\n\nQuake 4 2v2 Team Deathmatch\n\nEnemy Territory 5v5\n\nNvidia Quickdraw Winners\n\nBawls Chugging\n\nQuakeCon 2007 \n1st ever Quad Damage 1v1 Tournament\n\n1st Ever Enemy Territory:Quake Wars 6v6 Championship\n\nBawls Chugging\n\nQuakeCon 2008 \nIntel Quake Live 1v1 Championship\n\nIntel Quake Live Capture The Flag Championship\n\nThe Activision Enemy Territory: Quake Wars Team Championships (PC)\n\nThe Activision Enemy Territory: Quake Wars Team Championships (Xbox 360)\n\nQuakeCon 2009 \n\nIntel Quake Live Masters Championship\n\nIntel Quake Live Open Championship\n\nQuake Live Capture the Flag Championship\n\nQuakeCon 2010 \n\nIntel Quake Live Masters Championship\n\nIntel Quake Live Open Championship\n\nQuake Live Capture the Flag Championship\n\nBawls Chugging\n\nQuakeCon 2011 \n\n\nIntel Quake Live Duel Invitational Masters\n\nIntel Quake Live TDM Invitational Masters\n\nIntel/Bethesda Brink Open Championship\n\nQuake Live Duel Open Championship\n\nBawls Chugging\n\nQuakeCon 2012\n\nIntel Quake Live Duel Invitational Masters\n\nIntel Quake Live Capture the Flag Championship\n\nIntel Quake Live Duel Open\n\nQuakeCon 2013 \n\nIntel Quake Live Duel Invitational Masters\n\nQuake Live Clan Arena 3v3 Open\n\n20th Anniversary DOOM Challenge\nQuakeCon 2014\n\nIntel Quake Live Duel Masters Invitational\n\nPCPartPicker Quake Live CTF Open\n\nSeasonic Quake Live Duel Open\n\nVentrilo 10k Raffle Winner\n\nQuakeCon 2015\nQuakeCon 2015 Quake Live Grand Master Duel\nQuakeCon 2015 Quake Live Tri-Master Tournament\n\nVentrilo 10k Raffle Winner\n\nQuakeCon 2016\nQuakeCon 2016 Quake Live Duel Masters Championship\nQuakeCon 2016 QuakeWorld TDM 2on2 Open\n\nVentrilo 10k Raffle Winner\n\nQuakeCon 2017\n\nQuake World Championship 2017: Duel Tournament\n\nQuake World Championship 2017: Sacrifice\n\nQuake II 20th Anniversary Duel\n\nQuakeWorld Duel\n\nQuake Live 4v4 CTF\n\nQuake Champions Sacrifice (#1)\n\nQuake Champions Sacrifice (#2)\n\nRAGE: Road Rage\n\nThe Elder Scrolls: Legends\n\nDOOM2016 Battle of the BYOC 2v2 CA\n\nQuakeCon is primarily paid for by ZeniMax Media and fees paid by attendees in conjunction with the sponsorship of leading technology companies. \n\nPast sponsors of the event include Activision, nVidia, AMD, Aspyr, ASUS, Ventrilo, Apple, ATI Technologies, AT&T Inc., Alienware, Ageia, 1UP Network, FragArcade, Intel, D-Link, Logitech, Linksys, Spike TV, Newegg.com and Lucent Technologies.\n\n"}
{"id": "54090166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54090166", "title": "Ras Sedr massacre", "text": "Ras Sedr massacre\n\nRas Sedr massacre (in Hebrew: טבח ראס סודר) is a claimed mass murder of dozens of Egyptian prisoners of war that reportedly took place immediately after a paratrooper unit of Israel Defense Forces conquered Ras Sedr (also known as Ras Sudr) during the Six-Day War. \n\nIn June 2000, Egypt's Al-Wafd newspaper reported that a mass grave was discovered in Ras sedr, containing remains of 52 prisoners of war killed by Israeli forces during the war. The report said that some of the skulls had bullet holes in them, \"which proves that the soldiers were executed.\" \n\nIn April 2009, Haaretz reported that Israeli television director Ram Loevy had heard about the massacre shortly after the war, from fellow paratroopers in his unit. After testifying in \"Metzah\", he was removed from the unit.\n"}
{"id": "604046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=604046", "title": "Rosiglitazone", "text": "Rosiglitazone\n\nRosiglitazone (trade name Avandia) is an antidiabetic drug in the thiazolidinedione class. It works as an insulin sensitizer, by binding to the PPAR in fat cells and making the cells more responsive to insulin. It is marketed by the pharmaceutical company GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) as a stand-alone drug or for use in combination with metformin or with glimepiride. First released in 1999, annual sales peaked at approximately $2.5-billion in 2006; however, following a meta-analysis published in the New England Journal of Medicine in 2007 that linked the drug's use to an increased risk of heart attack, sales plummeted to just $9.5-million in 2012. The drug's patent expired in 2012.\n\nDespite rosiglitazone's effectiveness at decreasing blood sugar in type 2 diabetes mellitus, its use decreased dramatically as studies showed apparent associations with increased risks of heart attacks and death. Adverse effects alleged to be caused by rosiglitazone were the subject of over 13,000 lawsuits against GSK; as of July 2010, GSK had agreed to settlements on more than 11,500 of these suits.\n\nSome reviewers recommended rosiglitazone be taken off the market, but an FDA panel disagreed, and it remains available in the U.S. From November 2011 until November 2013, the federal government did not allow Avandia to be sold without a prescription from a certified doctor; moreover, patients were required to be informed of the risks associated with its use, and the drug had to be purchased by mail order through specified pharmacies. In 2013, the FDA lifted its earlier restrictions on rosiglitazone after reviewing the results of a 2009 trial which failed to show increased heart attack risk.\n\nIn Europe, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) recommended in September 2010 that the drug be suspended from the European market because the benefits of rosiglitazone no longer outweighed the risks. It was withdrawn from the market in the UK, Spain and India in 2010, and in New Zealand and South Africa in 2011. \nRosiglitazone was approved by the US FDA in 1999 and by the EMEA in 2000; the EMEA however required two postmarketing studies on longterm adverse effects, one for chronic heart failure and the other for cardiovascular effects. The drug was approved for glycemic control in people with type 2 diabetes, as measured by glycosylated haemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) as a surrogate endpoint, similar to that of other oral antidiabetic drugs. The controversy over adverse effects has dramatically reduced the use of rosiglitazone.\n\nPublished studies did not provide evidence that patient-oriented outcomes like mortality, morbidity, adverse effects, costs and health-related quality of life are positively influenced by rosiglitazone.\n\nOne of the safety concerns identified before approval was fluid retention. Moreover, the combination of rosiglitazone with insulin resulted in a higher rate of congestive heart failure. In Europe there were contraindications for use in heart failure and combination with insulin.\n\nA meta analysis of all trials from 2010 confirmed a higher risk of heart failure and a double risk when rosiglitazone was administered as add-on therapy to insulin. Two meta-analyses of real life cohort studies found a higher risk of heart failure compared to pioglitazone. There were 649 excess cases of heart failure every 100,000 patients who received rosiglitazone rather than pioglitazone.\n\nThe relative risk of ischemic cardiac events seen in pre-approval trials of rosiglitazone was similar to that of comparable drugs, but there was increased LDL cholesterol, LDL/HDL cholesterol ratio, triglycerides and weight.\n\nIn 2005, at the insistence of the World Health Organization, GSK performed a meta-analysis of all 37 trials involving use of rosiglitazone, finding a hazard ratio of 1.29 (0.99 to 1.89). \nIn 2006 the GSK updated the analysis, now including 42 trials and showing a hazard ratio of 1.31 (1.01 to 1.70). A large observational study comparing patients treated with rosiglitizone with patients treated with other diabetes therapies was performed at the same time and found a relative risk of 0.93 (95% C.I. 0.8 to 1.1) for those treated with rosiglitazone. The information was passed to the FDA and posted on the company website, but not otherwise published. GSK provided these analyses to the FDA, but neither the company nor the FDA warned prescribers or patients of the hazard. According to the FDA, the Agency did not issue a safety bulletin because the results of the meta analysis conflicted with those of the observational study and with the results of the ADOPT trial.\n\nA meta-analysis in May 2007 reported the use of rosiglitazone was associated with a 1.4 fold increased risk of heart attack and a numerically higher (but non-significant) increase in risk of death from all cardiovascular diseases against control. It contained 42 trials of which 27 were unpublished. Another meta analysis of 4 trials with follow-up longer than 1 year found similar results. Nissen's meta analysis was criticized in a 2007 article by George Diamond \"et al\" in the Annals of Internal Medicine. The authors concluded that Nissens' analysis had excluded trials with important data on the cardiovascular profile of rosiglitazone, had inappropriately combined trials of greatly differing design, and had inappropriately excluded trials with no cardiovascular events. The authors concluded that no firm conclusion could be drawn regarding whether rosiglitazone increased or decreased cardiovascular risk. Investigators from the Cochrane Collaboration published a meta-analysis of their own on the use of rosiglitazone in Type II diabetes, concluding there was not sufficient evidence to show any health benefit for rosiglitazone. Noting the recent publication by Nissen, they repeated their meta analysis including only the trials included in the Nissen study that dealt with Type II diabetics. (The Nissen study included some trials in people with other disorders.) They did not find a statistically significant increase in cardiovascular events, but noted that all of the cardiovascular endpoints they analyzed showed a non-significant trend toward worse outcomes in the rosiglitazone arms.\n\nIn July 2007 the FDA held a joint meeting of the Endocrinologic and Metabolic Drugs Advisory Committee and the Drug Safety and Risk Management Advisory Committee. FDA scientist Joy Mele presented a meta analysis examining the cardiovascular risk of rosiglitazone in completed clinical trials. The study found an overall 1.4x increase in risk of cardiovascular ischemic events relative to the control arms. The results were heterogenous, with clear evidence of increased risk relative to placebo but not relative to other diabetes treatments and higher risk associated with combinations of rosiglitazone with insulin or metformin. Based on the 1.4x increased risk relative to control groups, FDA scientist David Graham presented an analysis suggesting that rosiglitazone had caused 83,000 excess heart attacks between 1999 and 2007. The advisory panel voted 20 : 3 that the evidence available indicated that rosiglitazone increased the risk of cardiovascular events and 22 : 1 that the overall risk:benefit ratio of rosiglitazone justified its continued marketing in the United States. The FDA placed restrictions on the drug, including adding a boxed warning about heart attacks, but did not withdraw it.\n\nIn 2000 a study to address the concerns regarding cardiovascular safety was requested by the European Medicines Agency (EMA). GSK agreed to perform post-marketing a long-term cardiovascular morbidity/mortality study in patients on rosiglitazone in combination with a sulfonylurea or metformin: the RECORD study. The results as published in 2009 showed that rosiglitazone was non-inferior to treatment with metformin or a suflonylurea with respect to the rate of cardiovascular events and cardiovascular death. European regulators concluded that due in part to design limitations, the results neither proved nor eliminated concerns of excess cardiovascular risk.\n\nIn February 2010, the FDA's associate director of drug safety, recommended rosiglitazone be taken off the market. In June 2010, they published a retrospective study comparing roziglitazone to pioglitazone, the other thiazolidinedione marketed in the United States and concluded rosiglitazone was associated with \"an increased risk of stroke, heart failure, and all-cause mortality and an increased risk of the composite of AMI, stroke, heart failure, or all-cause mortality in patients 65 years or older\". The number needed to harm with roziglitazone was sixty. Graham argued rosiglitazone caused 500 more heart attacks and 300 more heart failures than its main competitor.\n\nTwo meta analyses released in 2010, one incorporating 56 trials and a second incorporating 164 trials reached conflicting conclusions. Nissen et al. found again an increased risk for heart infarction against control, but no increased risk for cardiovascular death. Mannucci et al. found no statistically significant increase in cardiac events but a significant increase in heart failure. A 2011 drug class review found an increased risk of cardiovascular adverse events.\n\nA meta-analysis of 16 observational studies released in March, 2011, compared rosiglitazone to pioglitazone, finding support for greater cardiovascular safety for pioglitazone. The meta-analysis involved 810 000 patients taking rosiglitazone or pioglitazone. The study suggests 170 excess myocardial infarctions, 649 excess cases of heart failure, and 431 excess deaths for every 100 000 patients who receive rosiglitazone rather than pioglitazone. This was confirmed by another meta-analysis involving 945 286 patients in 8 retrospective cohort studies, most in the US.\n\nIn 2012, the U.S. Justice Department announced GlaxoSmithKline had agreed to plead guilty and pay a $3 billion fine, in part for withholding the results of two studies of the cardiovascular safety of Avandia between 2001 and 2007.\n\nThere was no difference in all cause and vascular death in a meta-analysis of 4 trials against controls. Two meta-analyses of cohort studies found excess deaths against pioglitazone.\n\nAn retrospective observational study performed using Medicare data found that patients treated with rosiglitazone had a 27% higher risk of stroke compared to those treated with pioglitazone.\n\nGlaxoSmithKline reported a greater incidence of fractures of the upper arms, hands and feet in female diabetics given rosiglitazone compared with those given metformin or glyburide. \nThe information was based on data from the ADOPT trial The same increase has been found with pioglitazone (Actos), another thiazolidinedione.\n\nA meta-analysis of 10 RCTs, involving 13,715 patients and including both rosiglitazone- and pioglitazone-treated patients, showed an overall 45% increased risk of fracture with thiazolidone use compared with placebo or active comparator. It doubled the risk of fractures among women with type 2 diabetes, without a significant increase in risk of fractures among men with type 2 diabetes.\n\nThe risk of hypoglycaemia is reduced with thiazolidinediones when compared with sulfonylureas; the risk is similar to the risk with metformin (high strength of evidence).\n\nBoth thiazolidinediones cause a similar degree of weight gain to that caused by sulfonylureas (moderate strength of evidence).\n\nBoth rosiglitazone and pioglitazone have been suspected of causing macular edema, which damages the retina of the eye and causes partial blindness. Blindness is also a possible effect of diabetes, which rosiglitazone is intended to treat. One report documented several occurrences and recommended discontinuation at the first sign of vision problems. A retrospective cohort study showed an association between the use of thiazolidinediones and the incidence of diabetic macular edema (DME). Both use was associated with a 2,3 higher risk at 1 year and at 10 year follow-up, rising to 3 if associated with insulin.\n\nModerate to severe acute hepatitis has occurred in several adults who had been taking the drug at the recommended dose for two to four weeks. Plasma rosiglitazone concentrations may be increased in people with existing liver problems.\n\nBoth rosiglitazone and pioglitazone are contraindicated in people with NYHA Class III and IV heart failure. They are not recommended for use inheart failure.\n\nIn Europe rosiglitazone was contraindicated for heart failure or history of heart failure with regard to all NYHA stages, for combined use with insulin and for acute coronary syndrome. The European Medicines Agency recommended on 23 September 2010 that Avandia be suspended from the European market.\n\nRosiglitazone is a member of the thiazolidinedione class of drugs. Thiazolidinediones act as insulin sensitizers. They reduce glucose, fatty acid, and insulin blood concentrations. They work by binding to the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs). PPARs are transcription factors that reside in the nucleus and become activated by ligands such as thiazolidinediones. Thiazolidinediones enter the cell, bind to the nuclear receptors, and alter the expression of genes. The several PPARs include PPARα, PPARβ/δ, and PPARγ. Thiazolidinediones bind to PPARγ.\n\nPPARs are expressed in fat cells, cells of the liver, muscle, heart, and inner wall (endothelium) and smooth muscle of blood vessels. PPARγ is expressed mainly in fat tissue, where it regulates genes involved in fat cell (adipocyte) differentiation, fatty acid uptake and storage, and glucose uptake. It is also found in pancreatic beta cells, vascular endothelium, and macrophages Rosiglitazone is a selective ligand of PPARγ and has no PPARα-binding action. Other drugs bind to PPARα.\n\nRosiglitazone also appears to have an anti-inflammatory effect in addition to its effect on insulin resistance. Nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB), a signaling molecule, stimulates the inflammatory pathways. NF-κB inhibitor (IκB) downregulates the inflammatory pathways. When patients take rosiglitazone, NF-κB levels fall and IκB levels increase.\n\nUS sales of the drug were of $2.2 billion in 2006. Sales in 2Q 2007 down 22% compared to 2006. 4Q 2007 sales down to $252 million.\n\nThough sales have gone down since 2007 due to safety concerns, Avandia sales for 2009 totalled $1.2 billion worldwide.\n\nAccording to analysts from UBS, 13,000 suits had been filed by March 2010. Included among those suing: Santa Clara County, California, which claims to have spent $2 million on rosiglitazone between 1999 and 2007 at its public hospital and is asking for \"triple damages\".\nIn May 2010, GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) reached settlement agreements for some of the cases against the company, agreeing to pay $60 million to resolve 700 suits. In July 2010, GSK reached settlement agreements to close another 10,000 of the lawsuits against it, agreeing to pay about $460 million to settle these suits. \nIn 2012, the U.S. Justice Department announced GlaxoSmithKline had agreed to plead guilty and pay a $3 billion fine, in part for withholding the results of two studies of the cardiovascular safety of Avandia between 2001 and 2007. The settlement stems from claims made by four employees of GlaxoSmithKline, including a former senior marketing development manager for the company and a regional vice president, who tipped off the government about a range of improper practices from the late 1990s to the mid-2000s.\n\nGlaxoSmithKline was being investigated by the FDA and the US Congress regarding Avandia.\n\nSenators Democrat Max Baucus and Republican Charles Grassley filed a report urging GSK to withdraw Avandia in 2008 due to the side effects. The report noted the drug caused 500 avoidable heart attacks a month, and Glaxo officials sought to intimidate doctors who criticized the drug. It also said GSK continued to sell and promote the drug despite knowing the increased risk of heart attacks and stroke.\n\nThe Senate Finance Committee, in a panel investigation, revealed emails from GSK company officials that suggest the company downplayed scientific findings about safety risks dating back to 2000. It was also alleged by the committee that the company initiated a \"ghostwriting campaign\", whereby GSK sought outside companies to write positive articles about Avandia to submit to medical journals. GSK defended itself by presenting data that its own tests found Avandia to be safe, although an FDA staff report showed the conclusions were flawed.\n\nOn July 14, 2010, after two days of extensive deliberations, the FDA panel investigating Avandia came to a mixed vote. Twelve members of the panel voted to take the drug off the market, 17 recommended to leave it on but with a more revised warning label, and three voted to keep it on the market with the current warning label. The panel has come to some controversy, however; on July 20, 2010, one of the panelists was discovered to have been a paid speaker for GlaxoSmithKline, arousing questions of a conflict of interest. This panel member was one of the three who voted to keep Avandia on the market with no additional warning labels.\n\nIn 2011 the FDA has decided on revising its prescribing information and medication guides for all rosilitazone containing medicines. The US label for rosiglitazone (Avandia, GlaxoSmithKline) and all rosiglitazone-containing medications (Avandamet and Avandaryl) now include the additional safety information and restrictions. The revised labels restrict use to patients already taking a rosiglitazone-containing medicine or to new patients who are unable to achieve adequate glycemic control on other diabetes medications and to those, who in consultation with their healthcare provider, have decided not to take Actos (pioglitazone) or other pioglitazone-containing medicines for medical reasons.\n\nIn June 2013 an FDA Advisory Committee reviewed all available data, including a re-adjudicated RECORD trial, found no evidence of increased cardiovascular risk with Avandia, and voted to remove the restrictions on Avandia marketing in the United States. In November 2013, the US FDA removed these marketing restrictions on the product. Under the FDA’s instruction, Avandia’s maker, GlaxoSmithKline, had funded the Duke Clinical Research Institute to re-analyze the raw data from the study. At the 2010 panel, three panelists voted that the existing warnings were good enough; two were back in 2013. Seven voted to make those warnings more onerous, and five of them returned. But of the 10 who voted to restrict Avandia’s use, only four returned. And of the 12 who voted in 2010 to withdraw Avandia from the market, only three came back.\n\nIn 2000 a study to address the concerns regarding cardiovascular safety was requested by the EMA, and the makers agreed to perform post-marketing a long-term cardiovascular morbidity/mortality study in patients on rosiglitazone in combination with a sulfonylurea or metformin: the RECORD study. The results as published in 2009 showed non-inferiority with regard to cardiovascular events and cardiovascular death when the treatment with rosiglitazone was compared with metformin or a sulfonylurea. For myocardial infarction, there was a non-statistically significant increase in risk. In their assessment, the European regulators acknowledged weaknesses of the study, such as an unexpectedly low rate of cardiovascular events and the open-label design, which may lead to reporting bias. They found that the results were inconclusive. The European Medicines Agency recommended on 23 September 2010 that Avandia be suspended from the European market.\n\nAccording to a probe by the \"British Medical Journal\" in September 2010, the United Kingdom's Commission on Human Medicines recommended to the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) back in July 2010, to withdraw Avandia sale because its \"risks outweigh its benefits\". Additionally, the probe revealed that in 2000, members of the European panel in charge of reviewing Avandia prior to its approval had concerns about the long-term risks of the drug.\n\nRosiglitazone was withdrawn from the New Zealand market April 2011 because Medsafe concluded the suspected cardiovascular risks of the medicine for patients with type 2 diabetes outweigh its benefits.\n\nA notice issued by the Medicines Control Council of South Africa on July 5, 2011 stated that it had resolved on July 3, 2011 to withdraw all rosiglitazone-containing medicines from the South African market due to safety risks. It disallowed all new prescriptions of Avandia.\n\nFollowing the reports in 2007 that Avandia can significantly increase the risk of heart attacks, the drug has been controversial. A 2010 article in \"Time\" uses the Avandia case as evidence of a broken FDA regulatory system that \"may prove criminal as well as fatal\". It details the disclosure failures, adding, \"Congressional reports revealed that GSK sat on early evidence of the heart risks of its drug, and that the FDA knew of the dangers months before it informed the public.\" It reports, \"the FDA is investigating whether GSK broke the law by failing to fully inform the agency of Avandia's heart risks\", according to deputy FDA commissioner Dr. Joshua Sharfstein. GSK threatened academics who reported adverse research results, and received multiple warning letters from the FDA for deceptive marketing and failure to report clinical data. The maker of the drug, GlaxoSmithKline, has dealt with serious backlash against the company for the drug's controversy. Sales on the drug dropped significantly after the story first broke in 2007, dropping from $2.5 billion in 2006 to less than $408 million in 2009 in the US.\nIn response to the rise in risk of heart attacks, the Indian government ordered GSK to suspend its research study, called TIDE, in 2010. The FDA also halted the TIDE study in the United States.\n\nThree doctors' groups, the Endocrine Society, the American Diabetes Association and the American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists, urged patients to continue to take the drug as it would be much worse to stop all treatment, despite any associated risk, but that patients could consult their doctors and begin a switch to a different drug if they or their doctors find concern. The American Heart Association said in a statement in June 2010: \" ...the reports deserves serious consideration, and patients with diabetes who are 65 years of age or older and being treated with rosiglitazone should discuss the findings with their prescribing physician...\". \n\"For patients with diabetes, the most serious consequences are heart disease and stroke, and the risk of suffering from them is significantly increased when diabetes is present. As in most situations, patients should not change or stop medications without consulting their healthcare provider.\"\n\nRosiglitazone was thought to be able to benefit patients with Alzheimer's disease who do not express the ApoE4 allele, but the phase III trial designed to test this showed that rosiglitazone was ineffective in all patients, including ApoE4-negative patients.\n\nRosiglitazone may also treat mild to moderate ulcerative colitis, due to its anti-inflammatory properties as a PPAR ligand.\n\n"}
{"id": "8844846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8844846", "title": "SKAppleton", "text": "SKAppleton\n\nSKAppleton is the largest annual ska concert in the Midwestern United States. It is held in early May each year in Appleton, Wisconsin, and features ska bands from around the region. The concert has included such bands as Mustard Plug, The Toasters, Umbrella Bed, 1,2,3 Walrus!, The Invaders, Something To Do, Quazimodo and the Hunch, Hired Geeks, Deal's Gone Bad, and Bomb The Music Industry.\n\nThe festival is also over a decade old, dating back to at least 1993. It is organized by the bands Something to Do and Car Full of Midgets.\n\nSKAppleton 2011 took place on June 5th at Tanner's in Kimberly, Wisconsin, and featured Something To Do, Car Full of Midgets, Shortstop From Tokyo, Crazy 88, Superluck and more. Mustard Plug headlined the festival. \n\nThis also proved to be Car Full of Midgets last Skappleton, and their second to last show. They played their farewell show a few months later at Paperfest in Kimberly. \n\nIn 2012, due to financial issues, Skappleton was moved to Milwaukee after 19 years in Appleton and was sponsored by Horny Goat.\n\n"}
{"id": "46810658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46810658", "title": "SkyFire (spacecraft)", "text": "SkyFire (spacecraft)\n\nSkyFire is a planned nanosatellite spacecraft that will fly by the Moon and collect surface spectroscopy and thermography. It is scheduled to fly on the Space Launch System, Exploration Mission 1 (EM-1) scheduled to launch in 2020.\n\nIts purpose is that of a Geosynchronous Earth Orbit (GEO) technology demonstration using a low-cost 6U CubeSat spacecraft. SkyFire will perform a lunar flyby, collecting spectroscopy and thermography for surface characterization, remote sensing, and site selection. The spacecraft includes two deployable solar arrays and will have a total mass of about .\n\nSkyFire was selected in April 2015 by NASA's NextSTEP program (Next Space Technologies for Exploration Partnerships) and awarded a contract to Lockheed Martin Space systems worth $1.4 million for further development.\n\nSkyFire will fly along other 12 CubeSats as a secondary payload mission on the first flight of the Space Launch System, Exploration Mission 1 (EM-1) scheduled to launch in 2020.\n\nSkyFire will also demonstrate a low thrust electric propulsion rocket engine technology called electrospray propulsion to lower the spacecraft's orbit for additional science and technology mission objectives.\n\n"}
{"id": "6091091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6091091", "title": "Sweet Harmony Traveling Revue", "text": "Sweet Harmony Traveling Revue\n\nThe Sweet Harmony Traveling Revue was a three-week concert tour of country and folk musicians Emmylou Harris, Patty Griffin, Buddy Miller, Gillian Welch, and David Rawlings, which took place in August 2004. The group toured primarily in the American South, but also played in New York City (Central Park), Boston, Massachusetts (Fleet Pavilion), and Shelburne, Vermont (Shelburne Farm).\n"}
{"id": "53642997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53642997", "title": "The Unnatural and Accidental Women", "text": "The Unnatural and Accidental Women\n\nThe Unnatural and Accidental Women is a play by Metis playwright Marie Clements about the disappearance of multiple Indigenous women from the Downtown Eastside of Vancouver whose deaths of extremely high blood-alcohol levels were all caused by one man, Gilbert Paul Jordan.\n\nIn an attempt to reclaim the lives and importance of the victims, which was largely ignored by press coverage of the Jordan case, Clements' play is a surrealist exploration that jumps around in time to show the women in the final days before their deaths. Through the figure of the daughter of one of the victims, who is searching for answers to her mother's disappearance, the women are brought back to life and talk about their hopes, desires, and challenges as residents of \"Skid Row\" in Vancouver.\n\n\"The Unnatural and Accidental Women\" premiered on November 2, 2000, and ran until November 25 at the Firehall Arts Centre in Vancouver.\n\nProduced by Native Earth Performing Arts at Buddies in Bad Times Theatre from November 18 to December 5, 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "10340960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10340960", "title": "Timeline of the nuclear program of Iran", "text": "Timeline of the nuclear program of Iran\n\nThis is the timeline of the nuclear program of Iran.\n\n1957: The United States and Iran sign a civil nuclear co-operation agreement as part of the U.S. Atoms for Peace program.\n\nAugust 9, 1963: Iran signs the Partial nuclear test ban treaty (PTBT) and ratifies it on December 23, 1963.\n\n1967: The Tehran Nuclear Research Centre is built and run by the Atomic Energy Organization of Iran (AEOI).\n\nSeptember 1967: The United States supplies 5.545 kg of enriched uranium, of which 5.165 kg contain fissile isotopes for fuel in a research reactor. The United States also supplies 112 g of plutonium, of which 104 g are fissile isotopes, for use as start-up sources for research reactor.\n\nJuly 1968: Iran signs the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and ratifies it. It goes into effect on March 5, 1970.\n\n1970s: Under the rule of Mohammad Reza Shah Pahlavi, plans are made to construct up to 20 nuclear power stations across the country with U.S. support and backing. Numerous contracts are signed with various Western firms, and the German firm Kraftwerk Union (a subsidiary of Siemens AG) begins construction on the Bushehr power plant in 1974.\n\n1974: the Atomic Energy Act of Iran was promulgated. The Act covers the activities for which the Atomic Energy Organization of Iran was established at that period. These activities included using atomic energy and radiation in industry, agriculture and service industries, setting up atomic power stations and desalination factories, producing source materials needed in atomic industries. This creates the scientific and technical infrastructure required for carrying out the said projects, as well as co-ordinating and supervising all matters pertaining to atomic energy in the country.\n\n1974: The Shah lent $1 billion to the French Atomic Energy Commission to help build the Eurodif uranium processing company in Europe. In exchange, Iran received rights to 10% of the enriched uranium product, a right Iran never exercised. After a bitter legal dispute, the loan was repaid in 1991. Following the passage of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1737 in 2006, UN financial sanctions required France to freeze dividend payments to the Atomic Energy Organization of Iran.\n\n1975: Massachusetts Institute of Technology signs a contract with the Atomic Energy Organization of Iran to provide training for Iranian nuclear engineers.\n\n1975: Iran buys a 15% interest in the Rössing uranium mine of Namibia. However, due to international pressure, it is never allowed to collect any uranium from this outside country.\n\n1979: Iran's Islamic revolution puts a freeze on the existing nuclear program and the Bushehr contract with Siemens AG is terminated as the German firm leaves.\n\n1982: Iranian officials announced that they planned to build a reactor powered by their own uranium at the Isfahan Nuclear Technology Centre.\n\n1983: International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors inspect Iranian nuclear facilities, and report on a proposed co-operation agreement to help Iran manufacture enriched uranium fuel as part of Iran's \"ambitious program in the field of nuclear power reactor technology and fuel cycle technology.\" The assistance program is later terminated under U.S. pressure.\n\n1984: Iranian radio announced that negotiations with Niger on the purchase of uranium were nearing conclusion.\n\n1985: Iranian radio programs openly discuss the significance of the discovery of uranium deposits in Iran with the director of Iran’s Atomic Energy Organisation. also in this year Iran, Syria and Libya say that they should all develop nuclear weapons to counter the Israeli nuclear threat.\n\n1989: the Radiation Protection Act of Iran was ratified in public session of April 9, 1989 by the Parliament and was approved by the Council of Law-Guardians on April 19, 1989.\n\n1990: Iran begins negotiations with the Soviet Union regarding the re-construction of the Bushehr power plant.\n\n1992: Iran signs an agreement with China for the building of two 950-megawatt reactors in Darkhovin (Western Iran). To date, construction has not yet begun.\n\n1993: China provides Iran with an HT-6B Tokamak fusion reactor that is installed at the Plasma Physics Research Centre of Azad University.\n\nJanuary 1995: Iran signs an $800 million contract with the Russian Ministry of Atomic Energy (MinAtom) to complete a Light water reactor in Bushehr under IAEA safeguards.\n\n1996: China and Iran inform the IAEA of plans to construct a nuclear enrichment facility in Iran, but China withdraws from the contract under U.S. pressure. Iran advises the IAEA that it plans to pursue the construction anyway.\n\nAugust 2002: A spokesman for the MEK terrorist group holds a press conference to \"expose\" two nuclear facilities in Natanz and Arak that they claim to have discovered. However, the sites were already known to U.S. intelligence. Furthermore, under the terms of Iran's then-existing safeguards agreement with the IAEA, Iran was under no obligation to disclose the facilities while they were still under construction and not yet within the 180-day time limit specified by the safeguards agreement.\n\nDecember 2002: The United States accuses Iran of attempting to make nuclear weapons.\n\nSpring 2003: Iran makes a comprehensive proposal of negotiations with the United States that offers \"full transparency for security that there are no Iranian endeavors to develop or possess WMD\", joint decisive action against terrorists, coordination on a stable Iraq, coordination on nuclear matters, stop of any material support to Palestinian opposition groups (Hamas,\nJihad etc.) resisting Israeli occupation, and a normalization of relationships. The offer is spurned by V.P. Cheney and the Bush administration, which instead criticizes the Swiss ambassador who forwarded the offer.\n\nJune 16, 2003: Mohamed ElBaradei, Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency, declares that \"Iran failed to report certain nuclear materials and activities\" and requests \"co-operative actions\" from the country. The International Atomic Energy Agency does not at this time decide to declare Iran in non-compliance with its safeguards agreement under the Non-Proliferation Treaty.\n\nOctober 21, 2003: As a confidence-building measure, Iran and the EU-3 agree to negotiations under the terms of the Paris Agreement, pursuant to which Iran agrees to temporarily suspend enrichment and permit more stringent set of nuclear inspections in accordance with the Additional Protocol, and the EU-3 explicitly recognizes Iran's right to civilian nuclear programs in accordance with the Non-Proliferation Treaty. The EU-3 submits a demand in August 2005 that Iran abandon enrichment nonetheless.\n\nOctober 31, 2003: After negotiations with Iran and the US on language in the IAEA document, the IAEA declares that Iran has submitted a \"comprehensive\" declaration of its nuclear program.\n\nNovember 11, 2003: The IAEA reports that Iran had many breaches and failures to comply with its safeguards agreement, including a \"policy of concealment\" from the IAEA, but also states that there is \"no evidence\" that Iran is attempting to build an atomic bomb.\n\nNovember 13, 2003: The Bush administration claims that the IAEA conclusion of \"no evidence\" is \"impossible to believe.\"\n\nDecember 18, 2003: As agreed in the Paris Agreement, Iran voluntarily signs and implements the Additional Protocol to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty Though the Protocol was not binding on Iran until ratified, Iran voluntarily agrees to permit expanded and more intensive IAEA inspections pursuant to the Protocol, which fail to turn up a nuclear weapons program in Iran. Iran ends the voluntary implementation of Additional Protocol after two years of inspections, as a protest to continued EU-3 demands that Iran abandon all enrichment.\n\nJune 2004: Kamal Kharrazi, Iran's foreign minister, responding to demands that Iran halt its nuclear program, says: \"We won't accept any new obligations. Iran has a high technical capability and has to be recognised by the international community as a member of the nuclear club. This is an irreversible path.\" \n\nJune 14, 2004: Mohamed ElBaradei, Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency, accuses Iran of \"less than satisfactory\" co-operation during the IAEA investigation of its nuclear program. ElBaradei demands \"accelerated and proactive cooperation\" from Iran which exceed the terms of Iran's legal obligations.\n\nJuly 27, 2004: Iran removes seals placed upon uranium centrifuges by the International Atomic Energy Agency and resumes construction of the centrifuges at Natanz.\n\nOn June 29, 2004, IAEA Director General Mohammad ElBaradei announced that the Bushehr reactor was \"not of international concern\" since it was a bilateral Russian-Iranian project intended to produce nuclear energy.\n\nJuly 31, 2004: Iran states that it has resumed building nuclear centrifuges to enrich uranium, reversing a voluntary October 2003 pledge to Britain, France, and Germany to suspend all uranium enrichment-related activities. The United States contends that the purpose is to produce weapons-grade uranium.\n\nAugust 10, 2004: Several long-standing charges and questions regarding weapons-grade uranium samples found in Iran are clarified by the IAEA. Some samples match Pakistani and Russian sources which had contaminated imported Iranian equipment from those countries. The sources of the remaining samples remain unaccounted for.\n\nAugust 24, 2004: Iranian Foreign Minister Kamal Kharrazi declares in Wellington, New Zealand, that Iran will retaliate with force against Israel or any nation that attempts a pre-emptive strike on its nuclear program. Earlier in the week, Israel's Chief of Staff, General Moshe Ya'alon, told an Israeli newspaper that \"Iran is striving for nuclear capability and I suggest that in this matter [Israel] not rely on others.\"\n\nSeptember 6, 2004: The latest IAEA report finds that \"unresolved issues surrounding Iran's atomic program are being clarified or resolved outright\".\n\nSeptember 18, 2004: The IAEA unanimously adopts a resolution calling on Iran to suspend all activities related to uranium enrichment.\n\nSeptember 21, 2004: Iran announces that it will continue its nuclear program converting 37 tonnes of yellowcake uranium for processing in centrifuges.\n\nOctober 18, 2004: Iran states that it is willing to negotiate with the U.K., Germany, and France regarding a suspension of its uranium enrichment activities, but that it will never renounce its right to enrich uranium.\n\nOctober 24, 2004: The European Union makes a proposal to provide civilian nuclear technology to Iran in exchange for Iran terminating its uranium enrichment program permanently. Iran rejects this outright, saying it will not renounce its right to enrichment technologies. A decision to refer the matter from the International Atomic Energy Agency to the United Nations Security Council is expected on November 25, 2004.\n\nNovember 15, 2004: Talks between Iran and three European Union members, the United Kingdom, France, and Germany, result in a compromise. Iran agrees to temporarily suspend its active uranium enrichment program for the duration of a second round of talks, during which attempts will be made at arriving at a permanent, mutually-beneficial solution.\n\nNovember 15, 2004: A confidential UN report is leaked. The report states that all nuclear materials within Iran have been accounted for and there is no evidence of any military nuclear program. Nevertheless, it still cannot discount the possibility of such a program because it does not have perfect knowledge.\n\nNovember 22, 2004: Iran declares that it will voluntarily suspend its uranium enrichment program to enter negotiations with the EU. Iran will review its decision in three months. The EU seeks to have the suspension made permanent and is willing to provide economic and political incentives.\n\nNovember 24, 2004: Iran seeks to obtain permission from the European Union, in accordance with its recent agreement with the EU, to allow it to continue working with 24 centrifuges for research purposes.\n\nNovember 28, 2004: Iran withdraws its demand that some of its technology be exempted from a freeze on nuclear enrichment activities.\n\nJan 17, 2005: Iran offers a proposal to the EU. It includes:\nAn Iranian commitment not to pursue weapons of mass destruction;\ncooperation on combating terrorism, and on regional security, including for Iraq and Afghanistan; and\ncooperation on strategic trade controls. The proposal was not accepted.\n\nMar 23, 2005: Iran offers a proposal to the EU including: Iran’s adoption of the IAEA Additional Protocol and continuous on-site inspections at key facilities; as well as limiting the expansion of Iran’s enrichment program, and a policy declaration of no reprocessing. The proposal was not accepted.\n\nJune 2005: U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said IAEA head Mohamed ElBaradei should either \"toughen his stance on Iran\" or fail to be chosen for a third term as the agency's head. Following a one on one meeting between Rice and ElBaradei on June 9, the United States withdrew its opposition and ElBaradei was re-elected to his position on June 13, 2005.\n\nAugust 5, 2005: The EU-3 submit a proposal to Iran pursuant to the Paris Agreement which requires Iran to permanently cease enrichment. The proposal is rejected by Iran as a violation of the Paris Agreement and Iran's Non-Proliferation Treaty rights.\n\nBetween August 8 and August 10, 2005: Iran resumed the conversion of uranium at the Isfahan facility, under IAEA safeguards, but did not engage in enrichment of uranium.\n\nAugust 9, 2005: The Iranian Head of State, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, issued a fatwa forbidding the production, stockpiling and use of nuclear weapons. The full text of the fatwa was released in an official statement at the meeting of the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna.\n\nAugust 11, 2005: The 35-member governing board of the IAEA adopted a resolution calling upon Iran to suspend uranium conversion, and instructing ElBaradei to submit a report on Iran's nuclear program by September 3, 2005.\n\nAugust 15, 2005: Iran's new president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, installed his new government. Iranian presidents do not have exclusive control over Iran's nuclear program, which falls mainly under the purview of Iran's Supreme Leader. Ali Larijani replaced Hassan Rowhani as secretary of the Supreme National Security Council, Iran's top policy-making body, with nuclear policy in his purview.\n\nSeptember 15, 2005: Ahmadinejad stated at a United Nations high-level summit that Iran has the right to develop a civil nuclear-power program within the terms of the 1970 treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. He offered a compromise solution in which foreign companies would be permitted to invest and participate in Iran's nuclear program, which he said would ensure that it could not be secretly diverted to make nuclear weapons. The majority of the U.S. delegation left during his speech, but the U.S./UN mission denied there was a walkout.\n\nSeptember 24, 2005: The IAEA Board of Governors finds that the failures and breaches reported in November 2003 constitute non-compliance with Iran's safeguards agreement.\n\nOctober 10, 2005: Iranian Oil Ministry Deputy for International Affairs Hadi Nejad-Hosseinian said that Iran could run out of oil reserves in nine decades.\n\nNovember 5, 2005: The Iranian government approved a plan that allows foreign investors to participate in the work at the Natanz uranium enrichment plant. The cabinet also authorised the AEOI to take necessary measures to attract foreign and domestic investment in the uranium enrichment process.\n\nNovember 19, 2005: The IAEA released a report saying that Iran blocked nuclear inspectors from the United Nations from conducting a second visit to a site known as Parchin military complex, where Iran was not legally required to allow inspections at all. The first inspections had failed to turn up any evidence of a nuclear program. IAEA Director-General Mohamed ElBaradei said in the report, \"Iran's full transparency is indispensable and overdue.\" Separately, Iran confirmed that it had resumed the conversion of new quantities of uranium pursuant to its rights under the NPT, despite an IAEA resolution to stop such work.\n\nJanuary 2006: Iran provides the European negotiating side with a six-point proposal, which includes an offer to again suspend uranium enrichment for a period of two years, pending the outcome of continued negotiations. The offer is dismissed by the Europeans, and not reported in the Western press.\nThis offer of compromise follows several other offers from Iran, all of which were summarily dismissed by the US.\n\nJanuary 31, 2006: The IAEA reports that \"Iran has continued to facilitate access under its Safeguards Agreement as requested by the Agency ... including by providing in a timely manner the requisite declarations and access to locations\" and lists outstanding issues.\n\nJanuary 2006: \"The New York Times\" reporter James Risen published \"State of War\", in which he alleged a CIA operation code-named \"Operation Merlin\" backfired and may have helped Iran in its nuclear program, in an attempt to delay it feeding them false information.\n\nFebruary 4, 2006: The IAEA votes 27-3 to report Iran to the United Nations Security Council. After the vote, Iran announced its intention to end voluntary co-operation with the IAEA beyond basic Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty requirements, and to resume enrichment of uranium.\n\nMarch 2006: The U.S. National Security Strategy decried Iran, stating that \"Iran has violated its Non-Proliferation Treaty safeguards obligations and refuses to provide objective guarantees that its nuclear program is solely for peaceful purposes.\" The term \"objective guarantees\" is understood to mean permanent abandonment of enrichment.\n\nMarch 15, 2006: Mahmoud Ahmadinejad reaffirms Iran's commitment to developing a domestic nuclear power industry.\n\nMarch 27, 2006: In a \"Foreign Policy\" article entitled \"Fool Me Twice\", Joseph Cirincione, director for non-proliferation at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, claimed that \"some senior officials have already made up their minds: They want to hit Iran.\" and that there \"may be a co-ordinated campaign to prepare for a military strike on Iran.\" Joseph Cirincione also warns \"that a military strike would be disastrous for the United States. It would rally the Iranian public around an otherwise unpopular regime, inflame anti-American anger around the Muslim world, and jeopardise the already fragile U.S. position in Iraq. And it would accelerate, not delay, the Iranian nuclear program. Hard-liners in Tehran would be proven right in their claim that the only thing that can deter the United States is a nuclear bomb. Iranian leaders could respond with a crash nuclear program that could produce a bomb in a few years.\"\nApril 11, 2006: Ahmadinejad announced that Iran had enriched uranium to reactor-grade using 164 centrifuges. He said, \"I am officially announcing that Iran has joined the group of those countries which have nuclear technology. This is the result of the Iranian nation's resistance. Based on international regulations, we will continue our path until we achieve production of industrial-scale enrichment\". He reiterated that the enrichment was performed for purely civil power purposes and not for weapons purposes.\n\nApril 28, 2006: The International Atomic Energy Agency hands a report titled \"Implementation of the NPT Safeguards Agreement in the Islamic Republic of Iran\" to the UN Security Council. The IAEA says that Iran has stepped up its uranium enrichment programs during the 30-day period covered by the report.\n\nJune 1, 2006: The UN Security Council agrees to a set of proposals designed to reach a compromise with Iran.\n\nJuly 31, 2006:United Nations Security Council Resolution 1696 gives until August 31, 2006 for Iran to suspend all uranium enrichment and related activities or face the prospect of sanctions. The draft passed by a vote of 14-1 (Qatar, which represents Arab states on the council, opposing). The same day, Iran's U.N. Ambassador Javad Zarif qualified the resolution as \"arbitrary\" and illegal because the NTP protocol explicitly guarantees under international law Iran’s right to pursue nuclear activities for peaceful purposes. In response to today’s vote at the UN, Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said that his country will revise his position vis-à-vis the economic/incentive package offered previously by the G-6 (5 permanent Security council members plus Germany.)\n\nSeptember 16, 2006: (Havana, Cuba) All of the 118 Non-Aligned Movement member countries declare their support for Iran's nuclear program for civilian purposes in their final written statement . That is a clear majority of the 192 countries comprising the entire United Nations.\n\nDecember 23, 2006: United Nations Security Council Resolution 1737 was unanimously passed by the United Nations Security Council. The resolution, sponsored by France, Germany and the United Kingdom, imposed sanctions against Iran for failing to stop its uranium enrichment program following resolution 1696. It banned the supply of nuclear-related technology and materials and froze the assets of key individuals and companies related to the enrichment program. The resolution came after the rejection of UN economic incentives for Iran to halt their nuclear enrichment program. The sanctions will be lifted if Iran suspends the \"suspect activities\" within 60 days to the satisfaction of the International Atomic Energy Agency.\n\nJanuary 15, 2007: Ardeshir Hosseinpour, an Iranian junior scientist involved in The Uranium Conversion Facility at Isfahan, dies, reportedly due to \"gassing\". Several other scientists may also be killed or injured, and treated in nearby hospitals.\n\nJanuary 21, 2007: The death of Ardeshir Hosseinpour is finally reported by the Al-Quds daily and the Iranian Student's News Agency (in Arabic & Persian).\n\nFebruary 2, 2007: The U.S. private intelligence company Stratfor releases a report saying that Ardeshir Hosseinpour was killed by the Mossad through radioactive poisoning.\n\nFebruary 4, 2007: Reva Bhalla of Stratfor confirms the details of Stratfor's report to \"The Sunday Times\". Despite the previous reports, the \"semi-official\" Fars News Agency reports that an unnamed informed source in Tehran told them that Ardeshir Hosseinpour was not involved in the nuclear facility at Isfahan, and that he \"suffocated by fumes from a faulty gas fire in sleep.\"\n\nMarch 6, 2007: Gholam Reza Aghazadeh, the head of Atomic Energy Organization of Iran declared that Iran has started construction of a domestically built nuclear power plant with capacity of 360 MW in Darkhovin, in southwestern Iran.\n\nMarch 24, 2007: United Nations Security Council Resolution 1747 is adopted unanimously by the United Nations Security Council. In the resolution, the Council resolved to tighten the sanctions imposed on Iran in connection with that nation's nuclear program. It also resolved to impose a ban on arms sales and to step up the freeze on assets already in place.\n\nApril 9, 2007: President Ahmadinejad has announced Iran can now produce nuclear fuel on an industrial scale. Some officials said 3,000 uranium gas enrichment centrifuges were running at the Natanz plant in central Iran.\n\nJune 7, 2007: *Head of the International Atomic Energy Agency, Mohammad ElBaradei was quoted by the BBC as warning against the views of \"new crazies who say 'let's go and bomb Iran'\".\n\nJune 30, 2007: U.S. Congressional Representatives Mark S. Kirk and Robert E. Andrews proposed a bill to sanction against any company or individual that provides Iran with refined petroleum products. The plan is to pressure Iran over its nuclear program from December 31, 2007.\n\nDecember 3, 2007: The U.S. Intelligence Community released a National Intelligence Estimate concluding that Iran \"halted its nuclear weapons program\" in 2003, but \"is keeping open the option to develop nuclear weapons.\" \n\nDecember 11, 2007: British spy chiefs have grave doubts that Iran has mothballed its nuclear weapons program, as a US intelligence report claimed last week, and believe the CIA has been hoodwinked by Tehran.\n\nDecember 16, 2007: Iran's president said on Sunday the publication of a U.S. intelligence report saying Iran had halted a nuclear weapons program in 2003 amounted to a \"declaration of surrender\" by Washington in its row with Tehran.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25914704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25914704", "title": "Travel Extra", "text": "Travel Extra\n\nTravel Extra is a monthly newspaper dedicated to the Travel industry in Ireland. It features consumer and industry travel, aviation, cruise and ferry news and worldwide destination reviews.\n\nThe newspaper was founded in 1995 by Gerry O'Hare, former travel correspondent of \"The Irish Press\", which had closed suddenly in May 1995, and Tony Barry, former travel editor of the \"Evening Herald\", with the assistance of Anne Cadwallader and John Butterly. Since 2002 it has been owned by the Business Exhibitions Group and edited by Eoghan Corry, who had formerly been travel editor of \"The Irish Press\" and \"Evening News\".\n\nEach of the ten issues annually is themed\n\n\n\"Travel Extra\" also organise an annual awards cememony for the Irish Travel Writer of the Year, with the aim of raising the standard of travel writing across the print and broadcast media in Ireland. The ceremony is sponsored by the Spanish Tourist Board and the individual prizes sponsored by Cassidy Travel, Clickandgo.com, Fáille Ireland, Falcon Holidays, Lowcostbeds, Sunway, Maltese Tourist Board, Topflight, Tourism Northern Ireland, The Travel Corporation and Turkish Airlines Winners of the overall Irish Travel Writer of the Year include Cleo Murphy (2002), Pól Ó Conghaile (2003 and 2004), Kathryn Thomas (2005), Muriel Bolger (2006), Philip Nolan (2007), Pól Ó Conghaile (2008), Mark Evans (2009), Philip Nolan (2010), Isabel Conway (2011), Susan Morrell (2012).Pól Ó Conghaile (2013 and 2014), Isabel Conway (2015), Yvonne Gordon (2016)\nThree writers have been inducted into the Travel Extra Travel Writing Hall of Fame, Paddy Dignam, Tony Barry and John Healy.\n\nContributors to \"Travel Extra\" have included Carmel Higgins, Eanna Brophy, Anne Cadwallader, Marie Carberry, Lisa Chalfa, Charlie Collins, Geraldine Grennan, Sharon Hall, Stephen Houston, Paul Kilduff, Marisa Mackle, Cauvery Madhavan, Sean Mannion, Conor McMahon, Síofra Milne-Corry, Ida Milne, Catherine Murphy, Cleo Murphy, Ailbhe Ó Corráin, Roxanne Parker and Síofra Tobin-Larkin.\n\nGuest writers have included \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4679872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4679872", "title": "Urs festival, Ajmer", "text": "Urs festival, Ajmer\n\nThe Urs festival is an annual festival held at Ajmer, a city in the Indian state of Rajasthan, which commemorates the death anniversary of the Sufi saint Moinuddin Chishti, (founder of the Chishtiya Sufi order in India). It is held over six days and features night-long dhikr/zikr qawwali singing. The anniversary is celebrated in the seventh month of the Islamic lunar calendar. Thousands of pilgrims visit the shrine from all over India and abroad.\n\nThe sixth day of the Urs is regarded as the most special and auspicious. It is called \"Chhati Sharif\". It is celebrated on the 6th Rajab between 10:00 A.M. and 1:30 p.m. inside the Mazaar Sharif. \"Shijra\" is read by duty bound \"Khadims\" of Moinuddin Chishti, and then there is \"Fariyad\" (prayers).\n\nJust before the \"Qu'l\" (conclusion of Chhati Sharif), \"Badhaawa\" (a poem of praise) is sung at the main entrance of the shrine by Qawwals.\n\nBadhaawa is a recitation accompanied only by clapping; no musical instrument is played. It was composed by Syed Behlol Chishty, an ancestor of the present day Khadim community. After its recitation, the ceremony of the Qu'l comes to an end, and Fatiha is recited. The end of the ceremony is marked by firing a cannon at 1:30 p.m.\n"}
{"id": "33111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33111", "title": "World War I casualties", "text": "World War I casualties\n\nThe total number of military and civilian casualties in World War I was about 40 million: estimates range from 15 to 19 million deaths and about 23 million wounded military personnel, ranking it among the deadliest conflicts in human history.\n\nThe total number of deaths includes from 9 to 11 million military personnel. The civilian death toll was about 8 million, including about 6 million due to war-related famine and disease. The Triple Entente (also known as the Allies) lost about 6 million military personnel while the Central Powers lost about 4 million. At least 2 million died from diseases and 6 million went missing, presumed dead. This article lists the casualties of the belligerent powers based on official published sources.\n\nAbout two-thirds of military deaths in World War I were in battle, unlike the conflicts that took place in the 19th century when the majority of deaths were due to disease. Nevertheless, disease, including the 1918 flu pandemic and deaths while held as prisoners of war, still caused about one third of total military deaths for all belligerents.\n\nCasualty statistics for World War I vary to a great extent; estimates of total deaths range from 9 million to over 15 million. Military casualties reported in official sources list deaths due to all causes, including an estimated 7 to 8 million combat related deaths (killed or died of wounds) and another two to three million military deaths caused by accidents, disease and deaths while prisoners of war. Official government reports listing casualty statistics were published by the United States and Great Britain. These secondary sources published during the 1920s, are the source of the statistics in reference works listing casualties in World War I. This article summarizes the casualty statistics published in the official government reports of the United States and Great Britain as well as France, Italy, Belgium, Germany, Austria and Russia. More recently the research of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission (CWGC) has revised the military casualty statistics of the UK and its allies; they include in their listing of military war dead personnel outside of combat theaters and civilians recruited from Africa, the Middle East and China who provided logistical and service support in combat theaters. The casualties of these support personnel recruited outside of Europe were previously not included with British war dead, however the casualties of the Labour Corps recruited from the British Isles were included in the rolls of British war dead published in 1921. The methodology used by each nation to record and classify casualties was not uniform, a general caveat regarding casualty figures is that they cannot be considered comparable in all cases.\n\nFirst World War civilian deaths are \"hazardous to estimate\" according to Michael Clodfelter who maintains that \"the generally accepted figure of noncombatant deaths is 6.5 million.\" The figures listed below include about 6 million excess civilian deaths due to war related privations, that are often omitted from other compilations of World War I casualties. The war brought about malnutrition and disease caused by the U-boat Campaign and the Blockade of Germany which disrupted trade resulting in food shortages. The civilian deaths in the Ottoman Empire include the Armenian Genocide, Assyrian Genocide, and Greek Genocide. Civilian deaths due to the Spanish flu have been excluded from these figures, whenever possible. The figures do not include deaths during the Russian Civil War and the Turkish War of Independence.\n\nThe source of population data is: Haythornthwaite, Philip J., \"The World War One Source Book\" pp. 382–383\n\nThe war involved multi-ethnic empires such as Great Britain, France, Germany, Russia, Austria-Hungary and Turkey. Many ethnic groups in these territories were conscripted for military service. The casualties listed by modern borders are also included in the above table of figures for the countries that existed in 1914. The casualty figures by 1924 post war borders are rough estimates by Russian historian Vadim Erlikman in a 2004 handbook of human losses in the 20th century, the sources of his figures were published in the Soviet era and in post-Soviet Russia. According to the 1914–1918 Online Encyclopedia \"In addition to losses suffered by African military personnel and the laborers supporting their operations, very large, but unknown numbers of African civilians perished during the war.\" They made an estimate of civilian losses in Africa of 750,000 based on the study by the Vadim Erlikman. They noted that Erlikman's figures are based on the work of the Russian demographer Boris Urlanis, they noted that these estimates were \"imprecise\" and \"could be used to provide a frame of reference for further inquiry\". The \"Oxford History of World War One\" notes that \"In east and central Africa the harshness of the war resulted in acute shortages of food with famine in some areas, a weakening of populations, and epidemic diseases which killed hundreds of thousands of people and also cattle.\"\nThe following estimates of Austrian deaths, within contemporary borders, were made by a Russian historian in a 2004 handbook of human losses in the 20th century. Total dead 175,000: including military losses 120,000 with the Austro-Hungarian forces and POW deaths in captivity of 30,000. Civilian dead due to famine and disease were 25,000.\nThe following estimates of Belarusian deaths, within contemporary borders, were made by a Russian historian in a 2004 handbook of human losses in the 20th century. Total dead 130,000: including military losses 70,000 with the Russian forces. Civilian dead were 60,000.\nThe following estimates of Ukrainian deaths, within contemporary borders, were made by a Russian historian in a 2004 handbook of human losses in the 20th century. Total dead 590,000: including military losses 450,000,(Erlikman did not break out military losses between Austro-Hungarian and Russian armed forces). Civilian dead were 140,000.\nThe Belgian Congo was part of the Kingdom of Belgium during the war. A Russian historian Vadim Erlikman in a 2004 handbook of human losses in the 20th century based on sources published in the Soviet Union and Russia estimated a total of 155,000 deaths in the Belgian Congo during the war.\nCzechoslovakia was part of Austro-Hungary during the war. The estimates of Czechoslovak deaths within 1991 borders were made by a Russian historian in a 2004 handbook of human losses in the 20th century. Total dead 185,000: including military losses 110,000 with the Austro-Hungarian forces and POW deaths in captivity of 45,000. Civilian dead due to famine and disease were 30,000. The Czechoslovak Legions fought with the armies of the Allies during the war.\nEstonia was part of the Russian Empire during the war and about 100,000 Estonians served in the Russian Army. Of them about 10,000 were killed.\nFrom 1809 Finland was an autonomous Grand Duchy in the Russian Empire until the end of 1917. In 1924 the Finnish government in a reply to a questionnaire from the International Labour Office, an agency of the League of Nations, reported 26,517 were dead and missing in World War I.\n\nThe following estimates of deaths, within contemporary borders, during World War I were made by a Russian historian Vadim Erlikman in a 2004 handbook of human losses in the 20th century. Erlikman's estimates are based on sources published in the Soviet Union and Russia.\n\nThe following estimates of deaths, within contemporary borders, during World War I were made by a Russian historian Vadim Erlikman in a 2004 handbook of human losses in the 20th century. Erlikman's estimates are based on sources published in the Soviet Union and Russia.\n\nThe following estimates of Hungarian deaths, within contemporary borders, during World War I were made by a Russian historian in a 2004 handbook of human losses in the 20th century. Total dead 385,000: including military losses 270,000 with the Austro-Hungarian forces and POW deaths in captivity of 70,000. Civilian dead due to famine and disease were 45,000.\nIreland was a part of the UK during World War I. Five-sixths of the island left to form the Irish Free State, now the Republic of Ireland, in 1922. A total of 206,000 Irishmen served in the British forces during the war. The number of Irish deaths in the British Army recorded by the registrar general was 27,405. A significant number of these casualties were from what, in 1920, became Northern Ireland. While 49,400 soldiers died serving in Irish divisions (the 10th, 16th and 36th), although not all of the men serving in these divisions were natives of Ireland and many Irish who died in non-Irish regiments are not listed. For example, 29% of the casualties in the 16th Division were not natives of Ireland. Neither does it include Irish emigrants in Britain who enlisted there and are not categorised as Irish. Australia lists 4,731 of its first World War soldiers as having been born in Ireland and more than 19,000 Irish-born soldiers served in the Canadian Corps. According to research done by John Horne of Trinity College Dublin, there are at least 30,986 soldiers who were born in Ireland that died; however, that's considered a \"conservative\" estimate and is very likely to raise.\nThe losses of Portuguese Mozambique were estimated by a Russian historian Vadim Erlikman in a 2004 handbook of human losses in the 20th century. Erlikman's estimates are based on sources published in the Soviet Union and Russia. 52,000\nPoland was territory of Germany, Austria-Hungary and partially annexed by Russia, from 1795 to 1918. By late 1915, Germany had complete control over modern-day Poland. A 2005 Polish study estimated 3,376,800 Poles were conscripted into the armed forces of these countries during World War I, an additional 300,000 were conscripted for forced labor by the Germans. The Russians and Austrians forcibly resettled 1.6 to 1.8 million persons from the war zone in Poland. According to Michael Clodfelter, Polish war dead were 1,080,000, whilst 200,000 Polish civilians were killed in the fighting on the Eastern Front; 870,000 men served in the German, Austrian and Russian armies. Another estimate made by a Russian historian in a 2004 handbook of human losses in the 20th century, put total Polish war dead at 640,000, including military losses of 270,000 Poles conscripted, civilian losses of 120,000 due to military operations and 250,000 caused by famine and disease. The ethnic Polish Blue Army served with the French Army. The ethnic Polish Legions fought as part of the Austro-Hungarian Army on the Eastern Front.\nThe territory of Transylvania was part of Austria-Hungary during World War I. The following estimates of Romanian deaths, within contemporary borders, during World War I were made by a Russian historian in a 2004 handbook of human losses in the 20th century. Total dead: 748,000, including military losses of 220,000 with the Romanian forces, 150,000 with the Austro-Hungarian forces and POW deaths in captivity of 48,000. Civilian dead were as follows due to famine and disease: 200,000, killed in military operations 120,000 and 10,000 dead in Austrian prisons.\n\nBritain recruited Indian, Chinese, native South African, Egyptian and other overseas labour to provide logistical support in the combat theatres. Included with British casualties in East Africa are the deaths of 44,911 recruited labourers. The CWGC reports that nearly 2,000 workers from the Chinese Labour Corps are buried with British war dead in France.\n\nThe following estimates of British Empire colonial military deaths, within contemporary borders, during World War I were made by a Russian historian Vadim Erlikman in a 2004 handbook of human losses in the 20th century. Erlikman's estimates are based on sources published in the Soviet Union and Russia.\n\nThe following estimates are for Yugoslavia within the 1991 borders.\n\nSlovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Vojvodina (Now part of Serbia) were part of Austria-Hungary during World War I. Serbia, which included Macedonia, and Montenegro was an independent nation. The Yugoslav historian Vladimir Dedijer put the total losses of the Yugoslav lands at 1.9 million, of which 43% were from Serbia. The following estimates of Yugoslav deaths, within 1991 borders, during World War I were made by a Russian historian in a 2004 handbook of human losses in the 20th century. Total dead: 996,000 including military losses, 260,000 with the Serbian forces, 80,000 with the Austro-Hungarian forces, 13,000 with Montenegrin forces and POW deaths in captivity of 93,000. Civilian dead were as follows due to famine and disease: 400,000, killed in military operations: 120,000 and 30,000 dead in Austrian prisons or executed.\nDuring World War I, the Nepalese army was expanded and six new regiments, totaling more than 20,000 troops—all volunteers—were sent to India, most of them to the North-West Frontier Province, to release British and Indian troops for service overseas. Simultaneously, the Nepalese government agreed to maintain recruitment at a level that would sustain the existing British Gurkha units and allow the establishment of additional ones. The battalions were increased to thirty-three with the addition of 55,000 new recruits and Gurkha units were placed at the disposal of the British high command for service on all fronts. Many volunteers were assigned to non-combat units, such as the Army Bearer Corps and the labour battalions but they also were in combat in France, Turkey, Palestine and Mesopotamia. The Rana prime ministers urged Nepalese males to fight in the war. Of the more than 200,000 Nepalese who served in the British army, there were some 20,000 Gurkha casualties included above with the British Indian Army.\n\n East and Central Africa\nAustralia\n\n\nCanada\n\nFrance\n\nGreece\n\nIndia (British)\n\n\nItaly\n\n\n\n\n\n Romania\n\n\n\n United Kingdom\n\n\nUnited States\n Austria-Hungary\n\n German Empire\n\n\n\n\nNorway\n\nSweden\n\n\nThe source of population data is:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41150308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41150308", "title": "Zolitūde shopping centre roof collapse", "text": "Zolitūde shopping centre roof collapse\n\nOn 21 November 2013 the roof of the Zolitūde shopping centre in the Zolitūde neighbourhood of Riga, Latvia, collapsed at 17:41 local time resulting in the deaths of 54 people, including three rescue workers, and injuries to another 41 people. An unknown number of people were able to leave the store on their own after the initial collapse. It was the worst disaster in Latvia since 1950, when the steamer \"Mayakovsky\" sank in Riga, killing 147 people.\n\nThe building, which contained a Maxima supermarket and other businesses, was completed on 3 November 2011. Architectural design was by Zane Kalinka and Andris Kalinka from the local architectural firm KUBS. It was developed by Homburg Valda and built by the Re&Re company. When the building was finished, it won the Latvian Building of the Year award. Several months before its opening, a fire broke out in the market in which nobody was injured. At the time of the collapse, construction by Re&Re was taking place. The area of the shopping centre was , and the building cost around €1.4 million. The shopping centre was located in a part of the building owned by SIA Tineo, but it was originally owned by The Homburg Group, which still owns the adjacent apartment building. Tineo is an offshore company owned by the Maxima group, a retail chain with operations mostly in the Baltic states, which owns the \"Maxima XX\" supermarket in the building. The company initially claimed it was a tenant of the building. The building also contained a bank, a beauty salon, a currency exchange, a newsagent's and a pet shop.\nThere were plans for a layer of topsoil thick on the roof; small recreational spots with benches, connected by cobblestone-paved paths, were planned for the resident of an apartment house that was part of the same complex. Before the collapse, construction of the green roof was in progress, as was construction of underground car parking in the basement, intended for residents of the building.\n\nEyewitnesses said that at around 16:21 a fire alarm was set off and there were announcements made that the store should be evacuated. Security personnel verified this to be related to welding construction in the basement and switched off the alarm. It was later reported that the owner of the company which had installed the alarm said that it was designed to detect fire emergencies. He said it is unlikely that the alarm was set off by dust from the roof starting to collapse, as it was set off near water pipes in the basement. The store's security verified that there was no fire and therefore did not carry out an evacuation, but rather treated it as a false alarm and called a technician to turn it off. The building collapsed shortly after the technician arrived and he was not able to verify why the alarm had gone off. A board member of \"Maxima Latvija\" said that security had followed protocol, which was not to evacuate if there was no visible danger. According to some reports, the smaller shops in the retail centre, unlike Maxima, were evacuated and closed. Many customers, however, stayed in the store, encouraged by the calm demeanor of Maxima's employees. Some employees of the smaller shops also started returning to their workplaces after being told by security that it was a false alarm. It has also been reported by witnesses that at around 17:00 the alarm was turned off.\n\nThe roof caved in at 17:41 local time. Because the collapse occurred during peak shopping hours, it was suspected that at least a hundred people may have been in the store during the collapse. Eyewitnesses said the roof collapsed over the checkout counters, where many people were waiting to pay, and over the dairy, alcoholic beverage and household chemicals sections. This was confirmed by police who released a map based on CCTV footage just before the collapse. It was later reported that the collapse started over counters 6, 7 and 8. There were more than 50 employees working in the various stores in the building and an uncertain number of customers that might have been in the building, many of whom were able to escape before rescuers arrived. Most of the store lost electrical power due to damage caused by the collapse, which resulted in the main door locking and trapping several people inside the store, people had to break the glass to escape. The roof fell into the building, and also onto several cars parked outside the store.\n\nThe firefighters, ambulances and police arrived at the scene within minutes. After the initial collapse, firefighters divided the building into four working areas. Although it had initially seemed that the remaining roof construction posed no further danger, at 19:04 another part of the roof collapsed over one of the previously designated work areas, trapping several firefighters, injuring twelve and killing three of them. By that time 20 people – most of those injured in the first collapse – had been rescued. The injured were transferred to the Pauls Stradins Clinical University Hospital, the Riga East Clinical university hospital, the Riga Second hospital, and the Traumatology and Orthopedic hospital. One child was transferred to the Clinical University Hospital for children.\n\nBoth before and after the second collapse, only firefighters were allowed to enter the building, and anyone inside was pulled out and brought to the ambulances parked just outside the store. After the second collapse, it was reported that only five firefighters were allowed to enter the building at a time, and that the rest were forced to wait outside because of the danger of further collapse. Each firefighter was allowed to spend only half an hour working. Bulldozers were used to clear the rubble. Mobile cranes were deployed at 21:27 to lift concrete slabs.\n\nAccording to a Latvian army tweet, 110 soldiers were on site on 21 November. Several tents were installed for the use of firefighters and ambulance workers by the military. Latvia was offered aid by several countries, however it was turned down as State and fire rescue service believed they already had the required manpower, equipment and experience for the rescue operation.\n\nAt least one silent period was used to listen for signs of life among the rubble; some cell phones were heard ringing. The use of thermal scanners and Search and rescue dogs was also tried, however this proved unsuccessful as concrete rubble was too thick to detect warmth and dogs were distracted by the strong scent of household chemicals and alcohol that had leaked from broken packing.\n\nAnother fireman was reported to have been injured during clearing of the rubble in the early hours of 23 November.\n\nAnother collapse occurred at 17:52 on 23 November. None of the rescuers were harmed in this subsequent collapse. As the third collapse compromised the structural integrity of the roof, rescue efforts were stopped at around 19:00, A representative of the paramedics said that, given the severity of injuries the bodies of the latest victims had, they had no hope anyone else might still be alive.\n\nThe rescue was restarted the following afternoon. There were no more victims found in the rubble and rescue work was finished on 25 November.\n\nThe fatalities have been identified as 51 citizens of Latvia, 2 citizens of Russia and 1 citizen of Armenia.\n\nAfter the disaster, the Mayor of Riga Nils Ušakovs gave an order to inspect all building projects carried out by Re&Re.\n\nThe developer of the apartment building put additional construction on hold. The apartment building itself was not damaged in the incident.\n\nMaxima agreed to pay compensation to the victims and families of the dead.\n\nThe inquiry into the collapse began just minutes after it occurred. The police investigated three theories: first, that there was an error in structural design, and authorities overseeing planning had been negligent; second, that the cause is related to initial building procedures; third, that it was caused by the construction of the green roof.\n\nIn a related case on 27 February 2014 a man was fined for signature forgery on documents related to construction works in 2011. The police announced this finding in March, but did not disclose any further information. Latvian Television ran a report in April alleging that the person fined was owner of a now liquidated company MONCE – a subcontractor hired to install the metal constructions of the building by the manufacturer of the constructions Vikom Industry. Instead of hiring a certified building engineer to oversee the installation, the company had forged the documents using the name of an engineer, whom they previously had offered a job and paid him a salary of 5.95 lats from January to April 2011, which he actually never received.\n\nThe investigation of the cause of collapse was hindered by the collapsed building still being unsafe to enter. The remaining constructions were reinforced by March 2014. From April 2014, investigators were finally able to enter the building, where they recovered evidence buried by the third collapse of the roof and carried out investigation experiments – a controlled collapse of the remaining section of the roof and controlled fires, to test what loads the roof could carry and if the building's structures could have been compromised in the fire which occurred during its construction. The preliminary findings from the controlled collapse, which took place from 14 April to 17 April showed prolonged deformation of the metal support structures, which started well before the target weight of the roof was reached and ended with the constructions eventually breaking, suggesting that the roof was built improperly and the actual collapse was not caused by a sudden change, but by overloading structures for a prolonged period of time and possibly metal fatigue. Two controlled fires were set on 27 May. The police did not disclose preliminary results of this experiment and said that they aim to complete investigation in late fall. On 10 June 2014 it was announced that a separate criminal inquiry has been launched to verify findings of State Labour Inspectorate, which reported work safety violations in Maxima. The police concluded investigation on the site on 28 July 2014.\n\nIn January 2015 the first suspects were named – construction engineer Ivars Sergets, design expert Andris Gulbis and architect Andris Kalinka. In addition the assets of HND Grupa (a company owned by Sergets) and Kubs (owned by Kalinka and his sister) were frozen. It is unclear what the architect is suspected for as both the investigators and his representatives refused to comment. Sergets is suspected of making an error in the designs of the building's roof constructions. Gulbis is suspected of negligence as he was supposed to inspect and approve the design, but failed to notice the error. Prosecutor general Ēriks Kalnmeiers cautioned that the investigation is still ongoing and there will be more suspects. He said that the way the building was designed meant it was bound to collapse, however, the investigation had uncovered other factors that contributed to the collapse occurring at a particular time and therefore resulting in deaths, as well as numerous unrelated violations, which speak of a general tendency to disregard regulations, therefore everyone who had been neglectful contributed to the accident and should be held responsible.\n\nAccording to Re & Re's preliminary report, the cause was likely a design error. The report is a result of three independent civil engineers' examination of the project documentation. The rooftop garden was included in the original design, but the building was still \"designed with insufficient load carrying capacity, three times less than required\". The report states that the main reasons for the collapse are faulty estimation of the maximum load to be carried by the roof, and the design of the connections in the structural steel supporting the roof.\n\nAccording to Ivars Sergets, the owner of the HND Grupa which was responsible for the construction of the building, the collapse may have been caused by overload, created by materials being loaded onto weaker points of the roof. He rejected the possibility that the disaster had been caused by the design of the garden, since the store had been operating for two winters and the stress created by the weight of snow had been up to twice as great as the stress caused by the garden at the time of the collapse. He pointed out that too many of the building materials were stored on the roof. Later on, however, he admitted that trusses made of two pieces bolted together were used, while the original design called for a single truss. This was a result of issues with transporting longer trusses to the building site.\n\nLilita Ozola, an engineer teaching at the Latvian University of Agriculture, suggested that for changing the trusses the entire design plan should have been revised and reapproved by authorities. With the two-piece trusses installed, the joint between them would bear most of the roof's weight. She pointed out that there is a video recording of the shopping centre's roof collapsing in which it is obvious that it failed at the exact position of the joints. She also criticised construction work taking place on the roof when there were people in the building.\n\nToomas Kaljas, who claims to be a structural engineer working for a Finnish company, has published research based on photographs from the site, suggesting the connections between the horizontal bars that held the roof were inadequately designed. The garden on the roof played a minimal role. The load on the bolts that were holding the bars was uneven and there were too few of them. The calculations of forces applied to bolts were wrong. A better design would have resulted in components bending and cracking over time, instead of the whole building suddenly collapsing like dominoes without warning. Kaljas tested some nuts which were built to meet DIN 934 standard and which, according to him, are available in any hardware store. He found that these are not strong enough. A solution would have been to either get stronger nuts, or place two of them on the end of the same bolt. According to Toomas, the building designer should have issued a standard for the required nuts or, if not, then the builders should have asked for it. He thinks all public buildings that use these bolts should get additional nuts.\n\nAccording to a press representative of Kubs, the architect bureau that designed the building, the possibly faulty metal joint components were supplied by Vikom Industry. The management at Vikom Industry had said that they were unable to provide single-piece components and offered components that would be assembled out of two halves, but which would be just as strong as the ones ordered. Therefore, according to Kubs, Vikom Industry is solely responsible for the component and bolt force and strength calculations. Vladislavs Podgurskis, a representative of Vikom Industry, said in response that all metal components were made and assembled strictly according to the building design and that it must be a design error.\n\nVikom Industry said the bolts for joining the trusses had been supplied by the Eurobolts company. On 25 November Vikom Industry requested a manufacturer's certificate from Eurobolts for a certain batch of bolts. The owner and CEO of Eurobolts, Olga Romanova, said that the company has no information on what the bolts they sell are used for, however, the bolts in the batch Vikom Industry was interested in were not strong enough for joining trusses for the roof and that Vikom Industry had in fact never bought bolts that would be strong enough for that purpose. She added that judging from photographs of the trusses on the scene of the incident even smaller bolts were used. An anonymous fireman told TV3 News that the bolts he had seen on scene had not been broken, rather pulled out from fastenings, indicating the bolts were not designed for bearing the weight of the roof.\n\nThe vice director of the Latvian Fire Safety and Civil Defence College, Vilis Students, who participated in the rescue work, said that the concrete components seemed unexpectedly fragile. Translated quote: \"I am no specialist, but we could break the roof components with hammers and pliers. During exercises with concrete objects, we usually had to use a jackhammer.\"\n\nAccording to Maxima staff, the building had been dangerously unstable for about a year. The construction workers had told them that the foundation was cracked and needed reinforcement. At one point the storage room and store workers' locker room was completely flooded. There had also been extra support columns under the ceiling of the storage room, but those had been removed later. The fire alarm sounded frequently. The staff believe that the reason for the alarm was that it was obsolete and could not distinguish smoke from dust. The workers did not want to testify about this in front of a camera because they feared for their jobs.\n\nOn 23 November, Latvian President Andris Bērziņš stated that the collapse was a \"murder of defenseless people\" and that the \"perpetrators should be arrested\", and that the inquiry needed independent experts from other countries who are not associated with Latvian builders in any possible way. He also said that the entire political system needs to be changed as it allows individuals to escape responsibility. The BBC News Riga correspondent reported that the president wanted a criminal investigation \"led by independent investigators from abroad – implying that powerful business interests in Latvia are too closely entwined with politics to ensure a fair and honest investigation.\"\n\nLatvian Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis resigned on 27 November. He said that the country needed strong government with support in parliament at the moment of crisis and that he was thus taking responsibility for the incident. He also said he had considered this in the days after the tragedy and had made a final decision during a meeting with the president, but denied the president had asked him to step down. Opinion polls indicate that most people want mayor of Riga Nils Ušakovs to also step down. As political commentator Aivars Ozoliņš points out, since the Riga city council controls the local building authority responsible for the quality of buildings in Riga it was Ušakovs, not Dombrovskis, who should have taken political responsibility for the incident. Soon after the collapse several experts cited abolishing state building inspection among the reasons why control over building processes has lessened. This was done as a result of budget cuts during the global economic crisis as it was thought that municipal building authorities perform the same tasks. This was done in 2009 by the government of Valdis Dombrovskis. Ušakovs has cited this as the reason why the government of Dombrovskis was responsible; however he himself was a member of the Saeima when this decision was made and supported it in parliament.\n\nThe incident also caused some tension between Latvia and Lithuania after the top management of the Lithuanian-owned chain refused to take any responsibility for the incident. In particular, the CEO of Maxima Latvija, Gintaras Jasinskas, when asked if he had considered stepping down like Dombrovskis, caused outrage by saying \"Why? Those who feel guilty should step down. I can look people in the eye\". This was condemned by several Latvian politicians and the Latvian Ministry of Foreign Affairs called the Lithuanian ambassador to express official condemnation. Jasinskas was sacked and Lithuania expressed regret over his actions.\n\nOn 11 November 2014 members of the 12th convocation of Saeima, at the request of 36 deputies, voted in favour of establishing the Zolitūde tragedy parliamentary investigatory committee. The committee was appointed for the period of 12 months to investigate the actions taken by the state of Latvia in assessing the causes of the tragedy as well as measures taken by the government to prevent the recurrence of similar tragedies and mitigate the consequences of the tragedy.\n\nThe committee devoted most of its attention to issues in the construction sector of the economy, including state and municipal supervision of the construction sector (especially the dissolution of the State Construction Inspection Office and the creation of the National Construction Control Agency), quality of construction engineering education and the certification system, public procurement in construction sector, supervision of the market of construction materials and other questions. Addressing issues related to civil defence and social assistance, the committee in its sittings examined the following topics: competence of the employees of the security company ; cooperation between rescue services and municipalities in emergency situations, coordination of emergency response and mitigation of accident impact, resources of the responsible services; involvement of non-government organisations in emergency situations, in organizing social support; emergency social care package offered by the state and municipalities, and other topics.\n\nThe final report of the committee was adopted on the committee meeting on 27 October 2015 and has been published in the official journal “Latvijas Vēstnesis” in Latvian and English. In the final report the committee named seven persons as morally and politically responsible for the tragedy:\n\nA protest movement against the parties involved sprung up after the incident. Maxima stores were boycotted due in part to statements by its management after the shopping centre's roof collapsed, and also due to reports of exploitation of workers and poor product quality. Several employees, including those that worked in the collapsed store, told media that they received insufficient safety instructions, fire escape doors were blocked, they were not allowed to leave work without permission even to visit the toilet and would have their pay reduced if they failed to comply. The stores would also keep only a few checkout counters open in order to save money, causing long lines to form, requiring employees to work long hours, while paying the minimum wage. Maxima was also criticised for apparently intimidating workers to keep them from reporting discrepancies to authorities, talking to media or joining a trade union. The company was also accused of lying in the wake of the tragedy for initially denying owning the building and for saying that their safety instructions, which required evacuation only when it had been verified there was obvious danger, had been approved by the State Fire and Rescue Service There also have been protests against Maxima in Lithuania.\n\nThe Latvian president stated that the Saturday, Sunday and Monday immediately following the disaster would be days of mourning and sent condolences to Armenia in response to the death of one of its citizens.\n\nThe Mayor of Riga Nils Ušakovs said that the Maxima building would be demolished and have a memorial built in its place.\nSeveral Latvian websites, including the Latvian \"Wikipedia\", changed their logo designs to include black and images of candles, or put up banners expressing condolences. A black ribbon was also superimposed over the logo of Latvijas Televīzija during their broadcasts, and was worn by anchormen and anchorwomen. Latvijas Televīzija and other television channels and news website Delfi decided to suspend all commercials from broadcast for the following three days.\n\nMaxima, the owner of the store, ordered all its stores in the Baltic States to observe a period of mourning for three days during which Christmas decorations would not be lit and music would not be played. It also stopped all its advertising. Many Latvians were upset that Maxima commercials were still being broadcast on Thursday evening and Friday morning despite the tragedy.\n\nHeeding the call by local hospitals for blood donors, prospective donors waited in a long line at the State Blood Donor Centre on the Friday morning and, after about an hour, the centre thanked donors on Twitter for the overwhelming response and that it had met its collection goals.\n\nA charity drive to help the injured and families of victims was started, which ran for about a month collecting 948263.46 lats.\n\nMany sports and cultural events, including the \"Spēlmaņu nakts\" annual acting award ceremony, set to take place in the days following the tragedy, were cancelled. The Latvian Minister of Culture, Dace Melbārde, called for cultural organisations, including art and music schools, to consider carefully what events would be appropriate in the circumstances.\n\nIn almost all Latvian embassies, people were allowed to write their names in condolence books. The Latvian Lutheran and Russian Orthodox church organisations urged people to pray for the victims of the tragedy.\n\nRepresentatives of Maxima Latvia expressed condolences to the families of the deceased. After an emergency meeting, the board of Maxima promised that inspections would be carried out on all Maxima stores.\n\nEstonia, Lithuania and Russia offered assistance to rescue people trapped in the rubble, which Latvia declined. Lithuania and Estonia declared a day of mourning on 24 November.\n\nPresident of the European Commission José Manuel Barroso, Armenian President Serzh Sargsyan, Estonian President Toomas Hendrik Ilves, Finnish President Sauli Niinistö, Apostolic Nuncio to the Baltic countries Luigi Bonaci and Pope Francis, the President, Prime minister and Seimas of Lithuania, Russian President Vladimir Putin, Swedish Foreign Minister Carl Bildt, Turkish President Abdullah Gül, German President Joachim Gauck sent their condolences.\n\n\n"}
