{"id": "7249149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7249149", "title": "Abissa", "text": "Abissa\n\nAbissa is a cultural concept embracing the music, dance and spiritual life of the Nzema people in the town of Grand-Bassam, Côte d'Ivoire, West Africa. The best-known expression of Abissa is a festival celebrated in the last week of October. It is a time of forgiveness and rebirth marked by a week-long celebration.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "13933705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13933705", "title": "Angelus Novus", "text": "Angelus Novus\n\nAngelus Novus (New Angel) is a 1920 monoprint by the Swiss-German artist Paul Klee, using the oil transfer method he invented. It is now in the collection of the Israel Museum in Jerusalem.\n\nIn the ninth thesis of his 1940 essay “Theses on the Philosophy of History”, the German critic and philosopher Walter Benjamin, who purchased the print in 1921, interprets it this way:\n\nA Klee painting named \"Angelus Novus\" shows an angel looking as though he is about to move away from something he is fixedly contemplating. His eyes are staring, his mouth is open, his wings are spread. This is how one pictures the angel of history. His face is turned toward the past. Where we perceive a chain of events, he sees one single catastrophe which keeps piling wreckage upon wreckage and hurls it in front of his feet. The angel would like to stay, awaken the dead, and make whole what has been smashed. But a storm is blowing from Paradise; it has got caught in his wings with such violence that the angel can no longer close them. The storm irresistibly propels him into the future to which his back is turned, while the pile of debris before him grows skyward. This storm is what we call progress.\n\nOtto Karl Werckmeister notes that Benjamin's reading of Klee's New Angel image has led to it becoming \"an icon of the left.\"\n\nThe name and concept of the angel has inspired works by other artists, filmmakers, writers and musicians, including John Akomfrah, Ariella Azoulay, Carolyn Forché, and Rabih Alameddine.\n\nIn September 1940 Walter Benjamin committed suicide during an attempt to flee the Nazi regime. After World War II Walter Benjamin’s lifelong friend, Gershom Scholem (1897–1982), the distinguished scholar of Jewish mysticism, inherited the drawing. According to Scholem, Benjamin felt a mystical identification with the \"Angelus Novus\" and incorporated it in his theory of the “angel of history,” a melancholy view of historical process as an unceasing cycle of despair.\n\nIn 2015, in conjunction with her solo exhibition at the Tel Aviv Museum of Art, American artist R. H. Quaytman discovered that the monoprint had been adhered to an 1838 copper-plate engraving by Friedrich Muller after a Lucas Cranach portrait of Martin Luther.\n"}
{"id": "154560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=154560", "title": "Antioch University", "text": "Antioch University\n\nAntioch University is a private non-profit university system in the United States with five campuses located in four states, as well as an online campus and the Graduate School of Leadership and Change. All campuses of the university are regionally accredited by the Higher Learning Commission. Campuses are located in Los Angeles, California; Santa Barbara, California; Keene, New Hampshire; Yellow Springs, Ohio; and Seattle, Washington. Antioch University uses the system of narrative evaluation as a substitute to the conventional grading system of A-F letter grades. Additionally, Antioch University houses two institution-wide programs, the PhD in Leadership and Change and Antioch Online. While it originated from the historic college, Antioch University should not be confused with Antioch College in Yellow Springs, Ohio, which gained its independence from the University in 2009, and has since had no affiliation with the University.\n\nAntioch University serves more than 4,000 adult students around the world and across the country, online and from its five campuses in four states. The Los Angeles campus offers an MFA in creative writing; the Santa Barbara campus offers an MA in education with an emphasis in social justice; the Midwest campus offers a program in conflict analysis; the Seattle campus offers integrative drama and art therapy programs; and the online campus offers a BA in Human Services Administration as well as a BA in Liberal Studies with various concentrations.\n\nAntioch University grew out of Antioch College. Antioch College was founded in 1852 as the result of American educator Horace Mann's dream to establish a college comparable to Harvard but with some notable differences. Antioch College was to be completely nonsectarian and co-educational, and with a curriculum that would include the traditional treatment of the classics, but would emphasize science and the scientific method, history, and modern literature. Students would not compete for grades but would be encouraged to pursue issues of interest to them, read what they considered worthwhile and present papers on topics of their own choosing. Horace Mann became the first president in 1853.\n\nAntioch College began a period of rapid expansion in 1964 with the acquisition of the Putney School of Education in Vermont. That campus has evolved and moved several times to become Antioch University New England now situated in Keene, NH. By 1972, another 23 centers had been opened, and the College By-Laws were revised to define Antioch as a \"network\", not a college. Even as centers began to close, new centers continued to open; 38 centers would be opened by the end of 1979, including the ABA-accredited Antioch School of Law located in Washington, D.C. In 1977, the Antioch College Board of Trustees voted to change its name to Antioch University, and in 1978, Antioch University Corporation replaced Antioch College Corporation as owner of all institutional assets, tangible and intangible.\n\nIn 1986, the University decided to close 32 of its units around the country, including the School of Law. The law school now operates as the University of the District of Columbia David A. Clarke School of Law. By 1989, the University consolidated to 6 campuses including 1) its original campus, Antioch College in Yellow Springs, Ohio; 2) Antioch University New England in Keene New Hampshire; 3) Antioch University Los Angeles; 4) Antioch University Santa Barbara; 5) Antioch University Seattle; and 6) Antioch University McGregor, an adult, graduate degree program in Yellow Springs, Ohio, now known as Antioch University Midwest.\n\nIn 2008, citing financial exigency, Antioch University closed the Antioch College campus in Yellow Springs. Antioch College alumni came together to found the Antioch College Continuation Corporation and purchased the College name and campus back from the University. The newly independent Antioch College reopened in 2011 and purchased its remaining assets back from the University in 2012. Since then, Antioch University and Antioch College have operated as wholly separate, non-affiliated institutions, although the University continues to retain the transcripts of all College alumni who entered prior to the 2008 closure.\n\nFrom its inception, racial and gender equality, independent study and independent thinking were integral parts of Antioch College. Six students were accepted for the first quarter: four men and two women who came to share the same college classrooms for the first time in the U.S. The notion of gender equality extended also to the faculty. Antioch College was the first U.S. college to designate a woman as full professor, and the original faculty included seven men and two women. Then, in 1863, the college instituted the policy that no applicant was to be rejected on the basis of race.\n\nIn the early 1850s, Rebecca Pennell offered a course on teaching methods which was the first of its kind, while John Burns Weston, class of 1857, established a long-standing precedent by being both student and faculty simultaneously. He taught Greek language and literature for 20 years and remained a lifelong student.\n\nWhile Antioch College never diverged from the philosophy of Horace Mann, the final form of an Antioch education traced its roots from the election of Arthur Morgan as President of the college in 1920. Morgan, like Mann, believed in the development of the individual as a whole. Having seen the difficulty encountered by ivory-tower academicians attempting to participate in the business world, he resolved to change the cloistered educational experience by providing students with work experience in their field. He wrote “The Plan for the New Antioch” which was his vision for the future of the school. This was the beginning of Antioch's unique program of work and study, what Morgan termed, “industrial education.”\n\nMorgan initiated the practice of student government. He also changed the nature of the admissions procedure. Rather than relying on entrance examinations, Morgan opted for more personal information on prospective students. In addition, senior exams were graded \"honors\" or \"pass\", and students who failed could retake the exam. Morgan remained at Antioch until 1933, when President Roosevelt requested that he assume directorship of the Tennessee Valley Authority Project.\n\nIn 1964, Antioch College took over the Putney School of Education in Vermont (now Antioch University New England in Keene, New Hampshire). During the next decade, other adult learning programs were instituted: among them, Antioch Seattle; Antioch Southern California with campuses in Los Angeles and Santa Barbara; and the Antioch Education Abroad Program (with centers in London, Germany and other locations).\n\nIn 1978, Antioch College became a university system. From 1978 to 1994 the President of Antioch College also served as the Chancellor of Antioch University. In 2002, Antioch University's Ph.D. in Leadership and Change Program was founded. The program is designed to educate professionals from a wide range of fields to understand and lead organizational change. The program's low-residency model offers students interdisciplinary study with a practitioner focus that teaches and encourages applied research.\n\nIn 2009 Antioch College became entirely independent of Antioch University.\n\nFounded in 1964, Antioch University New England is located in Keene, New Hampshire, a small city with a strong tradition of civic, cultural, and environmental activism, in the heart of the state's Monadnock Region. It is Antioch University's largest branch, with over 1,200 graduate-level students. Master's degrees are awarded in areas of Clinical Mental Health Counseling (with specializations in Addictions Counseling & Dance/Movement Therapy), Marriage and Family Therapy, Environmental Studies, Organization & Management (\"Green MBA\"), and Education. Doctoral degrees are awarded in the areas of Clinical Psychology (Psy.D), Marriage and Family Therapy (Ph. D), and Environmental Studies (Ph. D). Antioch-New England is one of only three schools in the United States to offer Waldorf teacher training and has gained critical acclaim for its annually published environmental literary journal \"Whole Terrain\".\n\nEstablished in 1972 and with more than 8,000 alumni, Antioch University Los Angeles serves the diverse communities of the greater Los Angeles area. The core values of social justice, service to community, and lifelong learning comprise the heart of the BA degree completion program and master's degree programs in organizational management, education and teacher credentialing, psychology, and creative writing. Partnerships with community organizations provide students with unique experiential learning opportunities. The low-residency MFA in creative writing was named among the top five programs in the nation by \"The Atlantic\", and the graduate clinical psychology specialization in LGBT studies is the first of its kind. The MA in urban sustainability was developed in response to the growing awareness of the interconnections among environmental, economic, and social issues. The interdisciplinary program prepares well-trained, well-informed scholars, community leaders, and activists to advocate for sustainable urban policy and social change in the face of the growing global environmental crisis. The current student body consists of approximately 1000 learners, and supports a collection of faculty who are arguably in the top echelon of their fields. The school also offers a B.A. in Liberal Studies as well as Masters of Arts in Psychology, Organizational Management, and Urban Sustainability.\n\nFounded in 1988, Antioch University Midwest (AUM) is located in Yellow Springs, Ohio. Antioch University Midwest offers bachelor's degrees in Humanities, Management, Human Development, Liberal Arts, Health and Wellness, and Human Service Administration through an academically intensive cohort model of on-campus classes offered in the evenings and on Saturdays. They also offer two online Certificates in Education, as well as an MBA with concentrations in healthcare leadership and change management. The MA in Individualized Liberal and Professional Studies provides a self-designed major where students work with Antioch University faculty as well as specialized academic professionals who agree to mentor the student through their studies. Many of the graduate programs are available with limited residency in an online format. Antioch University Midwest was previously known as Antioch University McGregor and was founded in 1988 as the School of Adult and Experiential Learning at Antioch College.\n\nFounded in 1977, Antioch University Santa Barbara enrolls approximately 270 adult students from Santa Barbara and surrounding counties, as well as assorted students from other regions of the United States and some foreign countries. The campus offers a BA in liberal studies with seven possible concentrations, MA in clinical psychology with two possible concentrations, a PsyD in clinical psychology, an MA in education and teaching credential program, and an MBA program, and a Women and Leadership Certificate program.\n\nAntioch University Seattle (AUS), founded in 1975 in Seattle, Washington, offers master's degrees, a BA completion program, and a Doctor of Clinical Psychology (PsyD). Between 800 and 1000 students attend AUS, with an average age of 35. The School of Applied Psychology, Counseling and Family Therapy is the largest and longest running program with close to 3,000 graduates since 1976. The School offers master's degrees in mental health counseling, integrative studies, child, couple and family therapy, art therapy and drama therapy in addition to the PsyD program. The Center for Programs in Education offers teacher preparation at the graduate level, plus a master's in education for experienced educators. The Center for Creative Change features a low-residency, interdisciplinary approach to learning and offers master's degrees in environment and community, management and leadership, organizational development, and whole systems design. The BA in Liberal Studies program attracts students who like an individualized approach to completing their undergraduate degree. Students can receive credit for life experience and may pursue subjects of particular interest to them.\n\nA low-residency, cross-sector PhD dedicated to engaging working professionals in the interdisciplinary study, research and practice of leading positive change in workplaces, schools, organizations, and communities, across the country and world.\n\nAntioch University Online is a 100% online learning environment offering bachelor's completion degrees and graduate programs.\n\nIn June 2007, the Antioch University Board of Trustees announced that they would suspend operations of Antioch College the following year and that they intended to re-open the college in four years. It was their belief that four years would give the university the necessary time to develop and execute a plan for re-building Antioch College in a manner that would both honor its legacy and secure its future.\n\nThere was considerable controversy among members of the Antioch College alumni group and the administration, suggesting that the university should not close the college. During this time – 2007-2009 – two different organizations (the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools [NCA] and the American Association of University Professors [AAUP]) conducted audits and investigations into the university's actions, with a response from the university.\n\nSubsequently, a group of Antioch College alumni, headed by the Antioch College Alumni Board, expressed interest in purchasing the college from the university and re-opening the college as an independent institution. The alumni group formed the Antioch College Continuation Corporation as the vehicle for negotiating and owning the college. After two years of negotiations, the parties agreed to terms and, on September 4, 2009, the parties conducted a signing ceremony that ratified their agreement. Mark Roosevelt, a well-known senior education administrator, previously the superintendent of Pittsburgh Public Schools, was appointed President. A reopened and separate Antioch College welcomed its first class of students in the fall of 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "8873469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8873469", "title": "Ariana Nozeman", "text": "Ariana Nozeman\n\nAriana Nozeman (alt: A(d)riana Noseman/Nooseman): born Ariana van den Bergh (1626/1628 in Middelburg – December 7, 1661 in Amsterdam), was the first actress in The Netherlands. She made her debut on stage in 1655 at the Amsterdam Schouwburg (Amsterdam Theater) in a play by Jan Jacobsz. Schipper which accidentally bore her name ‘Onvergelijkelijke Ariana’ (‘Incomparable Ariana’).\n\nThe daughter of actor and playwright Adriaan van den Bergh, Ariana was born in Middelburg probably between 1626 and 1628. Her father had a travelling theatre company and translated and adapted several English dramas for the Dutch stage. Among them Thomas Kyd's “the Spanish Tragedy”-renamed Don Jeronimo (1621) in Dutch. Ariana could possibly not write.\n\nShe may have learnt the craft at a very early age. It was quite common for women and children in travelling theatre companies to appear on stage as these groups often consisted of actors’ families. Later on, she possibly joined the troupe of Jan Baptist van Fornenbergh. This company took the tradition of Dutch theatre to distant corners of Europe touring the north of Germany and Scandinavia, performing at fairs as well as royal courts such as the one of Swedish Queen Christina (1653). While in Hamburg, the actress married her colleague, the actor Gillis Nozeman in the Reformed Church of nearby Altona, a free haven for dissenters and marginalized. Ariana and Gillis became known as the first actors’couple in Dutch theatre history.\n\nOn June 30, 1655, the name of Ariana Nozeman was recorded for the first time in the Amsterdam theatre archives. The actress was paid 76,50 Dutch florins for 17 performances, which was higher than most of her male counterparts.. Ariana was even paid more than her husband because she brought her own opulent costumes to the scene. Unlike Italy and France where women had already made their appearances on the public stage, women’s parts in the Dutch Republic were still generally being played by men in the first half of the 17th century. The resignation of six actors at the Amsterdam Schouwburg (Theatre) may have led to Ariana Nozeman’s debut.\n\nAriana Nozeman mostly played serious roles. She was the first actress who ever performed Badeloch in the historical play \"Gijsbrecht van Aemstel\" by Joost van den Vondel, one of Holland’s most famous poets of the 17th century. Ariana was rarely seen in farces or comical acts and she also sang. She is credited as the first ballet dancer in The Netherlands. She was often seen on stage together with her husband Gillis Nozeman either as a couple or as antagonists. Their daughter Maria Nozeman (born 1652) followed in her mother’s footsteps; she entered the stage at the age of six years. The Nozemans supplemented their theatre incomes by running an inn called The Camel on one of the Amsterdam canals.\n\nBy putting herself on public show, Ariana Nozeman would surely not have had the approval of the stern Dutch Reformed Church. Simon Schama in \"\" says: “In 1655 the first actress appeared in the Amsterdam theater, strengthening the clergy’s view that it was the sink of the vilest iniquity. But Adriana Nozeman went on to make an illustrious career there nonetheless”. Holland, in spite of its Calvinist character, was a secular society and Amsterdam, the capital of the mighty Dutch Republic, known for its free and tolerant climate. Banned philosophers such as Locke and Descartes got their works published here. Pornography was printed here as well.\n\nThe stage curtain dropped for Ariana Nozeman when she was not even 35 years old. She died on December 7, 1661. Three months earlier, she had lost her only 7-year-old son Mathijs. Maybe she died of heartbreak or maybe she fell victim to the plague. She was buried in the Oude Kerk (Old Church), now in the heart of Amsterdam’s famous red light district. Her death meant a great loss for the Amsterdam Schouwburg. They contracted immediately four new actresses to replace her.\n\nThree hundred years after her stage debut, in 1955, the first woman on the Dutch stage was commemorated. The city council of Amsterdam honoured her memory with a street named Ariana Nozemanstraat in the western part of the city.\n\n"}
{"id": "2212333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2212333", "title": "Bisque (food)", "text": "Bisque (food)\n\nBisque is a smooth, creamy, highly seasoned soup of French origin, classically based on a strained broth (coulis) of crustaceans. It can be made from lobster, langoustine, crab, shrimp, or crayfish.\n\nIt is thought the name is derived from \"Biscay\", as in Bay of Biscay, but the crustaceans are certainly \"bis cuites\" \"twice cooked\" (by analogy to a biscuit) for they are first sautéed lightly in their shells, then simmered in wine and aromatic ingredients, before being strained, followed by the addition of cream.\n\nBisque is a method of extracting flavor from imperfect crustaceans not good enough to send to market. In an authentic bisque, the shells are ground to a fine paste and added to thicken the soup. Julia Child even remarked, \"Do not wash anything off until the soup is done because you will be using the same utensils repeatedly and you don't want any marvelous tidbits of flavor losing themselves down the drain.\" Bisques are thickened with rice, which can either be strained out, leaving behind the starch, or pureed during the final stages.\n\nSeafood bisque is traditionally served in a low two-handled cup on a saucer or in a mug.\n\nBisque is also commonly used to refer to cream-based soups that do not contain seafood, in which the sometimes pre-cooked ingredients are pureed or processed in a food processor or a food mill. Common varieties include squash, tomato, mushroom, and red pepper.\n\n"}
{"id": "816219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=816219", "title": "Bronisław Geremek", "text": "Bronisław Geremek\n\nProfessor Bronisław Geremek (born Benjamin Lewertow; 6 March 1932 – 13 July 2008) was a Polish social historian and politician.\n\nGeremek was born in Warsaw on 6 March 1932. His father Boruch Lewertow, a fur merchant, was murdered in Auschwitz. His mother, Sharca, and he were smuggled out of the Warsaw Ghetto in 1943 and were sheltered by Stefan Geremek. Geremek later married Bronisław's mother and Bronisław was further raised in a Roman Catholic tradition. In his adult life he considered himself neither a Jew nor a Catholic. His grandfather was a maggid, his brother Jerry, living in New York is a Jew and his sons living in Poland are Roman Catholics.\n\nIn 1954 Bronisław Geremek graduated from the Faculty of History at the Warsaw University, and in 1956–1958 he completed postgraduate studies at the École pratique des hautes études in Paris. He completed his PhD in 1960 and in 1972 he was granted a postdoctoral degree at the Polish Academy of Sciences (PAN). In 1989 he was appointed associate professor.\n\nThe chief domain of Geremek's scholarly work was research on the history of culture and medieval society. His scholarly achievements included numerous articles and lectures, as well as ten books, which have been translated into ten languages. His doctoral thesis (1960) concerned the labour market in medieval Paris, including prostitution. His postdoctoral thesis (1972) concerned underworld groups in medieval Paris.\n\nAlmost the whole of Geremek's scholarly career was connected with the Institute of History of the Polish Academy of Sciences, where he worked from 1955 to 1985. However, from 1960 to 1965 he was a lecturer at the Sorbonne in Paris and the manager of the Polish Culture Centre of that university. Geremek was given honorary degrees by the University of Bologna, Utrecht University, the Sorbonne, Columbia University and Jagiellonian University in Kraków. In 1992 he was designated visiting professor at the Collège de France. He was a member of Academia Europea, the PEN Club, the Société Européenne de Culture, fellow of Collegium Invisibile and numerous other societies and associations.\n\nHe was a longtime professor and Chairholder of the Chair of European Civilisation at the College of Europe until his death.\n\nIn 1950 Geremek joined the Polish United Workers' Party (PZPR). He was the second secretary of the Basic Party Organisation (POP) of the PZPR at Warsaw University. In 1968, however, he withdrew from the party in protest against the Warsaw Pact's invasion of Czechoslovakia.\n\nIn the 1970s Geremek was considered one of the leading figures in the Polish democratic opposition. In 1978 he co-founded the Society for Educational Courses, for which he gave lectures. While on a Fellowship at the Wilson Center in Washington DC, he met General Edward Rowny who introduced him to Lane Kirkland and Ronald Reagan. In August 1980 he joined the Gdańsk workers' protest movement and became one of the advisers of the Independent Self-Governing Trade Union Solidarność (Polish for \"Solidarity\") – NSZZ. In 1981 he chaired the Program Commission of the First National Convention of Solidarity. After martial law was declared in December 1981 he was interned until December 1982, when he once again became an adviser to the then-illegal Solidarity, working closely with Lech Wałęsa. In 1983 he was arrested by the Polish authorities.\n\nBetween 1987 and 1989 Geremek was the leader of the Commission for Political Reforms of the Civic Committee, which prepared proposals for peaceful democratic transformation in Poland. In 1989 he played a crucial role during the debates between Solidarity and the authorities that led to free parliamentary elections and the establishment of the ‘Contract Sejm’.\n\nGeremek then became one of the founders of The Democratic Union (later merged into The Freedom Union) and was the leader of the Democratic Union's parliamentary group from 1990 to 1997. After the elections in 1991 President Lech Wałęsa asked him to form a new government, but Geremek failed to do so and Jan Olszewski was appointed Prime Minister instead.\n\nFrom 1989 to 2001 Geremek was a member of the lower house of the Polish parliament, the Sejm, and chairman of the Political Council of the Freedom Union. He chaired the Sejm's Committee on Foreign Affairs from 1989 to 1997, its Constitutional Committee from 1989 to 1991 and its European Law Committee from 2000 to 2001.\n\nAfter a coalition government was formed in October 1997 by the Solidarity Electoral Action (AWS) and the Freedom Union Geremek served as Minister of Foreign Affairs under Prime Minister Jerzy Buzek until 2000. In 1998 Poland chaired OSCE, and Bronisław Geremek served as Chairperson-in-Office. In March 1999 he signed the treaty under which Poland joined NATO.\n\nIn the election to the European Parliament in June 2004 Geremek was elected as a candidate of the Freedom Union, winning the largest number of votes in Warsaw. In the European Parliament he was a member of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe.\n\nProf Geremek was a great believer in the idea of Europe, though he felt that there is a need to create a clear European identity and the need for people to believe in the benefits that Europe can bring to them- not just as nations, but also as individuals.\n\nIn April 2007 Geremek refused to declare that he had never collaborated with the Communist secret service, which he was being asked to do under a new vetting law. In May 2007 the Constitutional Tribunal of the Republic of Poland) rejected most of the new vetting law, including the clause that would have made it mandatory for nearly 700,000 Poles to sign declarations certifying that they had never collaborated with the secret services under the old regime.\n\nFrom 2006 to 2008, he was president of the Jean Monnet Foundation for Europe.\n\nGeremek was a supporter of the Campaign for the Establishment of a United Nations Parliamentary Assembly.\n\n\nGeremek died on 13 July 2008, in a car accident on National Road no. 2 at Lubień near Nowy Tomyśl when the car he was driving hit an oncoming van on the opposite lane, probably due to Geremek falling asleep behind the wheel. He was granted a state funeral, held in Warsaw in the Cathedral of St John. His funeral was attended, among others, by president Lech Kaczyński, prime minister Donald Tusk, and three former presidents Ryszard Kaczorowski, Lech Wałęsa and Aleksander Kwaśniewski.\n\nIn January 2009, the European Parliament named the main courtyard of the \"Louise Weiss\", its principal building, after Bronisław Geremek.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11067172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11067172", "title": "Cefalù Cathedral", "text": "Cefalù Cathedral\n\nThe Cathedral of Cefalù () is a Roman Catholic basilica in Cefalù, Sicily. It is one of nine structures included in the UNESCO World Heritage Site known as Arab-Norman Palermo and the Cathedral Churches of Cefalù and Monreale.\n\nThe cathedral was erected in 1131 in the Norman architectural style, the island of Sicily having been conquered by the Normans in 1091. According to tradition, the building was erected after a vow made to the Holy Saviour by the King of Sicily, Roger II, after he escaped from a storm to land on the city's beach. The building has a fortress-like character and, seen from a distance, it dominates the skyline of the surrounding medieval town. It made a powerful statement of the Norman presence.\n\nThe cathedral was built in a long-populated area, as attested by the presence of a Roman road and a Paleo-Christian mosaic. Construction began in 1131, the apse mosaics were begun in 1145, and the sarcophagi that Roger II provided for his tomb and that of his wife were put in place the same year.\nAfter 1172 the church suffered a period of decline. In 1215 Frederick II of Hohenstaufen moved the two sarcophagi to the Cathedral of Palermo. Construction of the cathedral was resumed soon after, the façade being completed in 1240. The Cathedral was consecrated in 1267 by Rodolphe de Chevriêres, Bishop of Albano.\n\nIn 1472 a portico, by Ambrogio da Como, was added between the two towers of the facade.\n\nThe cathedral is preceded by a large terraced parvis, which was originally a cemetery. According to tradition, it was created with earth brought from Jerusalem, which was believed to have qualities that caused the rapid mummification of corpses.\n\nThe façade is characterized by two large Norman towers with mullioned windows, each surmounted by a small spire added in the 15th century. Each spire is different: one has a square plan surrounded by flame-shaped merlons, the latter symbolizing the Papal authority and the mitre; the other has an octagonal plan and Ghibelline merlons, symbolizing the Royal and temporal power.\n\nThe 15th-century portico has three arches, the two outer being pointed, supported by four columns and vaulting ribs. Under the portico is the \"Porta Regum\" (Kings' Door), with a finely decorated marble portal flanked by wall paintings.\n\nThe interior of the cathedral is on the Latin cross plan, divided into a nave and two aisles by arcades of antique columns: fourteen in pink granite and two in cipolin. The bases and capitals are from the 2nd century AD. Two large capitals supporting the triumphal arch of the nave were probably made by an Apulian workshop in the mid-12th century.\n\nThe roof of the nave was lowered, as can be seen from the exterior of the building. The transept is higher than both the nave and aisles. While parts of the building are barrel-vaulted and parts have an open timber roof, the presbytery has a ribbed vault of stone.\n\nBeyond the crossing, the church is unusual in combining a style that is essentially Romanesque in its massive simple forms with the pointed (or ogival) arch. This feature is also seen in Monreale Cathedral. It is a forerunner of the Gothic style which was to develop in the region of Paris within a few years.\n\nThe church has three apses, an arrangement also seen in Sicily at Monreale Cathedral. The two lower side apses have the upper tiers of the exterior decorated by blind arcading of small crossed arches and sculpted corbels, also seen used extensively at Monreale. The corbels date from 1215-1223 and portray masks, heads of animals, and human figures in contorted positions. The corbels of the central apse are more recent. The central apse originally had three large ocular windows, which were later closed to give space for the mosaic, and a larger central window of ogival shape. Two other pairs of circular windows are located at the transept's ends.\n\nThe cathedral has a cloister that can be entered from within the church. The arcade has pointed arches, each of which rests on slender, paired columns. The form is not different from that of Spanish and some French cloisters; the composite capitals of the coupled columns are Norman and other more generically Romanesque in their motifs. This cloister is the model for the successive Norman cloisters of Sicily, in particular that of the Monreale.\n\nIt was probably planned that the entire church be decorated in mosaic, but this was completed only in the presbyterium area. Mosaic still covers the apse and about half of the side walls. Roger II brought masters in the technique of mosaic from Constantinople. They adapted their traditional Byzantine decorative art to an architectural structure that was of northern European origin.\n\nThe dominant figure of the decorative scheme is the bust of Christ Pantokrator, portrayed on the semi-dome of the apse with a hand raised in Benediction. In his left hand he carries the Gospel of John, in which can be read, in Greek and Latin: \"I am the light of the world, who follows me will not wander in the darkness but will have the light of life\" (John, ).\n\nIn the upper tier of the apsidal wall is depicted the Blessed Virgin Mary, her hands raised in prophecy, flanked by four archangels. In the second and third tiers, on either side of the central window, are figures of apostles and evangelists, placed according to a planned theological programme.\n\nThe mosaic decoration extends into the presbyterium, with the side walls showing figures of prophets and saints. On the right wall, adjacent to the royal throne, are royal figures, while on the left side, adjacent the bishop's throne, are priestly figures. Each figure is accompanied by an inscription, in Greek or Latin, describing the character portrayed. The decoration of the cross-vaulted ceiling depicts four cherubim and four seraphim.\n\nThe chief figures, that of Christ Pantokrator and the Virgin Mary, are clothed in blue, given luminosity by a background of gold tiles. The work is of the highest order, displaying elegance in the draping of the figures' robes and in the sensitivity of their faces and gestures. It is considered the finest Byzantine mosaic in Italy and comparable to other fine Late Byzantine work from Constantinople.\n\nThe Byzantine mosaic decoration was completed before 1170. The lower part and the side walls of the presbyterium were not completed until the 17th century. They covered preceding paintings of which scarce traces remain today.\n\nOf the original painted decoration, a figure of Urban V from the late 14th century, on a column on the left aisle; and a \"Madonna enthroned\" from the 15th century, in the left arm of the transept, remain.\n\nThe basilica houses several funerary monuments, including a late Antique sarcophagus, a medieval one, and the notable sepulchre of the Bishop Castelli of the 18th century.\n\nThe 12th-century baptismal font, carved from a single block of stone, is decorated with four small sculpted lions. The church also houses a canvas of the Madonna from Antonello Gagini's workshop (16th century) and a painted wooden cross by Guglielmo da Pesaro (1468). The organ is a large two-manual instrument with detached console and plain pipework, sitting above a panelled wooden case.\n\nThe nave's ceiling has a painted decoration with busts, fanciful animals and other motifs, probably the work of Arabic craftsmen.\n\nStarting in 1985, the Palermo artist Michele Canzoneri was commissioned and has installed 72 modern, abstract, stained-glass windows based on episodes from the Old and New Testaments. These have aroused some controversy for their style.\n\nExcavations in the cathedral area have brought to light parts of a 6th-century polychrome mosaic. They depict a dove drinking, parts of two other birds, two small trees, and a lily-shaped flower, enclosed in a frame with ogival and lozenge motifs.\n\nThis mosaic belonged probably to a pre-existing Byzantine basilica. This area of Cefalù was frequented at least up to the 8th century, when it was an episcopal see.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51184037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51184037", "title": "Channel Zero (TV series)", "text": "Channel Zero (TV series)\n\nChannel Zero is an American horror anthology television series created by Nick Antosca, who serves as writer, showrunner, and executive producer. The series was greenlit for two 6-episode, self-contained seasons, slated to air in the fall of 2016 and the fall of 2017 on Syfy. The storylines for the series are based on popular creepypastas. On February 9, 2017, Syfy renewed the series for a third and fourth season.\n\nThe first announced installment, based on Kris Straub's \"Candle Cove\", stars Paul Schneider and Fiona Shaw and was directed by Craig William Macneill. The series premiered on October 11, 2016. \"Channel Zero\"'s second season is based on Brian Russell's \"The No-End House\" and directed by Steven Piet. The season premiered on September 20, 2017. \"Channel Zero\"'s third season \"Butchers Block\" is based on Kerry Hammond's \"Search and Rescue Woods\" and was directed by Arkasha Stevenson. The season premiered on February 7, 2018. \"Channel Zero\"'s fourth season \"The Dream Door\" is based on Charlotte Bywater's \"Hidden Door\" and directed by E. L. Katz. The season premiered for six consecutive days beginning October 26, 2018 at 11/10c with the finale airing on Halloween.\n\nA child psychologist returns to his hometown to determine if his brother's disappearance is somehow connected to a series of similar incidents and a bizarre children's television series that aired at the same time.\n\nA young woman and her group of friends visit a bizarre house of horrors only to find themselves questioning whether it is a tourist attraction or something more sinister.\n\nA woman moves to a city haunted by a series of bizarre disappearances and, after suspecting that they may be connected to a baffling rumor, works with her sister to discover what is preying on the city's residents.\n\nNewlyweds Jillian and Tom have each brought secrets into their marriage. When they discover a bizarre door in their basement, those secrets start to threaten their relationship—and their lives.\n\n\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n\nIn season 2, \"Bathysphere\" by Cat Power plays at the end of the first episode. \"Concrete Walls\" from Fever Ray's eponymous album plays during the end of the third episode and \"Between the Bars\" from Madeleine Peyroux's \"Careless Love\" plays at the start of the sixth episode.\n\nIn season 3, portions of \"Koyaanisqatsi\" by Philip Glass play during the fifth and sixth episodes. Some of the Kyrie from György Ligeti's Requiem is also heard during the sixth episode.\n\nIn 2015, Syfy announced that they had greenlit \"Channel Zero\" for twelve episodes, which would air as two six episode seasons. The first season would center upon the popular creepypasta \"Candle Cove\". The second season would focus on a new story, based on the creepypasta \"The No-End House\". Universal Cable Production would serve as the production company for the series, with Max Landis and Nick Antosca both serving as the series' executive producers.\n\nCraig William Macneill was chosen to direct the first season of \"Channel Zero\" in February 2016. Paul Schneider and Fiona Shaw were confirmed as starring in \"Channel Zero\"'s first season in June 2016. Schneider is set to portray Mike Painter, a child psychologist whose twin brother went missing years before and whose mother, portrayed by Shaw, is reluctant to indulge his desire to investigate. Natalie Brown and Shaun Benson were also named as starring in the series. Filming began in Selkirk, Manitoba, Canada during May 2016 and wrapped on July 28, after 46 days of shooting.\n\nFilming for Season 2 was set to start September 13, 2016 in Oakbank, Manitoba. An advance screening of the first episode premiered at San Diego Comic-Con. Creator Nick Antosca revealed on Twitter that season 2 would premiere on September 20, 2017.\n\nFilming for Season 3 took place from July to August 30, 2017 in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada.\n\nFilming for Season 4 began in early May 2018 and wrapped that July.\n\nShowcase broadcasts each season in Canada after Syfy has finished airing it within the United States.\n\nThe first season of \"Channel Zero\" received generally favorable reviews from critics, with a Metacritic rating of 75 out of 100 based on 5 reviews. On Rotten Tomatoes, it has a 89% approval rating based on 18 reviews, with an average rating of 6.83/10. The site's critics' consensus reads: \"Creepy, unsettling, and refreshingly unique, \"Channel Zero: Candle Cove\" draws on easily relatable childhood fears while peeling back layers of spine-tingling mystery.\"\n\nThe second season received highly favorable reviews from critics. On Rotten Tomatoes, it has a 100% approval rating based on 12 reviews, with an average rating of 8.4/10. The site's critics' consensus reads: \"\"No End House\"'s central mystery is stronger and scarier than Channel Zero's first, solidifying its status as one of TV's scariest horror offerings.\"\n\nThe third season received highly positive reviews. On Rotten Tomatoes, it has a 100% approval rating based on 8 reviews, with an average rating of 8.5/10.\n\n"}
{"id": "19998814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19998814", "title": "Csodamalom", "text": "Csodamalom\n\nCsodamalom Bábszínház (Magic Mill Puppet Theatre) of Miskolc, Hungary was formed by puppeteer Tibor Korzsény in 1986 as an amateur company.\nThe name \"Csodamalom\" (Magic Mill) preserves the name of Fábián Mill, which was the former building of the company since then they had moved to 11, Kossuth Street. The theatre functioned as semi-official since 1988 and as official from 1992. Above the 50 play repertoire there are two or three premiers a year, usually a dramatizing classical folk tales. Uniquely in Hungary, they play musical puppet shows, including the puppet-pantomimes staged for adults, such as \"Pictures at an Exhibition\" by Mussorgsky, \"Bolero\" by Ravel and \"Carmina Burana\" by Orff.\n\nDuring the last fifty years several attempts had been made to form a permanent puppet theatre in the city of Miskolc, which has outstanding theatrical traditions. In 1947 László Bod, later the director of Budapest State Puppet Theatre, tried to establish the genre in Miskolc.\n\nIn the middle 1980s, in the building known as Fábián Mill, initially two groups started their work. The first to perform here was the amateur puppetry led by János Czikora until 1989. Beside this group was the Csodamalom Puppet Theatre established in 1986 by Tibor Korzsény, who was a member of the State Puppet Theatre before, and artist of the Tokaj Varieté.\n\nThe first performance was on 26 September 1986 under the management of Tibor Korzsényi. It was an adaptation of a tale by the Grimm Brothers entitled \"Hansel and Gretel\".\nThe artists, including Anna Molnár, Valéria Egerszegi, Aszterisz Pacadisz were members of the Tokaj Varieté, except Ildikó Gyürek.\n\nFollowing this, Tibor Korzsényi gathered together young people who were interested in the genre. The group enlarged and changed throughout the years. In September, 1990 the higher education of puppeteers was launched with twelve students, under the professional supervision of the State Puppet Theatre.\nThe first shows' puppets were designed by Vera Bródy, and made in the workshop of the State Puppet Theatre by Emőke Szabó applied artist. Scenery were made in the workshop of the National Theatre of MIskolc under the direction of Attila Veres. Accompanying music was composed by composers of Miskolc, music teacher János Zoller and organist László Csabai.\n\nThe group soon grew out of its original location. In 1988 the theatre company, then being the amateur puppetry of the City Cultural Centre, received a group operational permit from the National Philharmony, then from 1992 the company was granted the license to work as professional theatre, and was relocated to the building of the former Studio Theatre in Kossuth Street, where they established their own workshop.\n\nIn the beginning they carried on the traditions of the State Puppet Theatre playing mainly classic puppet shows for young children.\n\nIn recent years the group's professional activities are characterized by variety of techniques and genres. Amongst others the group put up plays based on Roma genesis legends, but their series featuring traditional European fai puppet-show stories, or the stories of Czechoslovakian cartoons formerly being very popular in Hungary have eventually built up a unique repertoire.\n\nBeside hand or glovepuppets they apply several techniques in creating puppets. They make Wayang puppets, and amongst the flat-puppets cut out from paper and installed onto posts, marionettes were used for example in the play, Háry János. Puppets in the King Mátyás tales are moved with a Sicilian marionette technique, while objects transformed into real actors in \"Rosszcsont Peti\" (Naughty Peter).\n\nDirectors:\n\nPuppeteers:\n\nWorkshop:\n"}
{"id": "37857931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37857931", "title": "Diamond Grill", "text": "Diamond Grill\n\nDiamond Grill is a 1996 semi-fictional biography by Canadian novelist and poet Fred Wah. The book was first published in 1996 by NeWest Press, based in Edmonton, Alberta. \"Diamond Grill\" is told through both prose and poetry and utilizes a first person narrative.\n\nThe book won the Howard O’Hagan prize for short fiction and has been described by Wah as a way to explore his \"hyphenated identity\". The book has also been credited with helping to popularize the term \"biotext\", a term coined by George Bowering.\n\nThe book describes Wah's experiences of the Diamond Grill, his father's restaurant in Nelson, British Columbia, and of the impact of growing up as a child of mixed heritage in the 1950s. \"Diamond Grill\" also discusses other locations, such as different restaurants, China, and a hospital where his father was once held.\n\n\"Diamond Grill\" explores several different themes, with racial identity being one of the most predominant. The usage of imagery to explore the book's various themes has often been commented on by various academics, with the appearance of the Diamond Grill's swinging doors in the beginning and ending of the novel being described as a way of accentuating the difference between the \"Occident and Orient\". In one of \"Diamond Grill's\" chapters, Wah talks about how some people had difficulty associating Wah with his last name, as he is only 1/8th Chinese and looks predominantly Caucasian. Elaine Chang argues in her book \"Reel Asian: Asian Canada on screen\" that people do not react to an \"almost-white\" person with an Italian name in the same way that they would if that individual possessed a Chinese one, and that this reaction causes some to think \"maybe you're not Canadian\".\n\nThe idea of food as it relates to culture has also been commented upon, with Vera Regan stating that Wah uses food as a way to connect his commentary to \"tie him to his family, his culture, and his identity\".\n\nOf the book's title, Pauline Butling described that being in the \"Diamond Grill\" meant to be in \"[a] precious and yet contradictory space of interrogation, to be either 'colourless or tinted'\".\n\nCritical reception for the book has been positive, with \"Canadian Literature\" praising \"Diamond Grill's\" complexity. The Quill & Quire called the book \"beguiling\" and wrote that it gave them \"much to think about on the subject of identity, particularly how we and our society collude, often destructively, in its construction\".\n"}
{"id": "1163938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1163938", "title": "Emblem of Israel", "text": "Emblem of Israel\n\nThe Emblem of the State of Israel (; ) shows a menorah surrounded by an olive branch on each side, and the writing \"\" (Hebrew for \"Israel\") below it. Most commonly light blue and white, the coat of arms does appear in different colour combinations depending on the use (see below).\n\nThe State of Israel adopted the symbol after a design competition held in 1948. The design is based on the winning entry submitted by Gabriel and Maxim Shamir's proposal, with elements taken from other submissions, including entries from Oteh Walisch, W. Struski, Itamar David, Yerachmiel Schechter, and Willie Wind, whose entry won the first design competition.\n\nThe image used on the emblem is based on a depiction of the menorah on the Arch of Titus. The menorah was used in the ancient Temple in Jerusalem and has been a symbol of Judaism since ancient times. It symbolizes universal enlightenment, based on what is written in Isaiah 60: \"Nations will come to your light, and kings to the brightness of your dawn\".\n\nThe emblem may also be based on the vision of the biblical prophet Zechariah, chapter 4, where he describes seeing a menorah flanked by two olive trees, one on each side.\nThe olive branches symbolize peace. The symbol is used on coinage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22526518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22526518", "title": "Eskimo–Uralic languages", "text": "Eskimo–Uralic languages\n\nThe Eskimo–Uralic hypothesis posits that the Uralic and Eskimo–Aleut language families belong to a common language family of which they are the two branches. Although substantial arguments for the hypothesis have been made, it is not generally accepted by linguists. The best-known advocate of the Eskimo–Uralic hypothesis is Knut Bergsland. The hypothesis dates back to the pioneering Danish linguist Rasmus Rask in 1818, upon noticing similarities between Greenlandic Eskimo and Finnish.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31560336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31560336", "title": "Ethnocultural empathy", "text": "Ethnocultural empathy\n\nEthnocultural empathy refers to the understanding of feelings of individuals that are ethnically and/or culturally different from oneself. This concept casts doubts on global empathy, which assumes that empathy is \"feeling in oneself the feelings of others\" and is not specifically targeting any one group (e.g. age, gender, and ethnicity) or context. Ethnocultural empathy, on the other hand, assumes that empathy toward others probably increases if the other is similar to oneself in terms of ethnicity, gender, age, or cultural background.\n\nTraditionally, empathy is roughly defined as an intellectual ability of taking the role or perspective of another person and/or an emotional response to another person with the same emotional display. As a part of personal traits, empathy has been established as relatively stable and consistent within a certain time period. However, increasing research found that people usually hold different levels of empathy toward different individuals based on perceived psychological similarity. Two primary factors influencing the psychological similarity are ethnics and culture. Particularly, people usually feel more empathetic towards individuals who are in the same ethnic/cultural groups as they are than those who are not.\n\nQuintana defined ethnic perspective taking as a cognitive–developmental ability that could be reached as an individual proceeds through developmental life stages. This development contains five stages of ethnic perspective-taking ability, including (1) physicalistic and observable perspective, (2) literal perspective, (3) non-literal and social perspective, (4) group perspective and (5) multicultural perspective of ethnicity. First, children begin to establish their ethnic identity by distinguishing themselves from other ethnic groups based on physical features. Once children understand the physical differences with other groups, they then are able to become aware of the perspectives, attitudes, experiences shared by other ethnic groups, and finally develop the ability to take the perspective of other ethnic groups.\n\nRidley and Lingle have defined cultural empathy as a \"learned ability\" which is composed of three subordinate processes: cognitive, affective, and communicative. Cognitive process can be understood as a cultural perspective-taking and cultural self–other differentiation. Affective process includes vicarious affect and the expressive concern. Communicative process includes probing for insight and conveying accurate understanding.\n\nBased on the ethnic perspective of perception and culture difference of empathy, Wang and her colleague posed the concept \"ethnocultural empathy\". Although this is a new concept, many previous research had addressed similar or related constructs although never formally terms it. Thus, concepts such as cultural empathy, empathetic multicultural awareness, ethnic perspective taking are usually used interchangeably with \"ethnocultural empathy\".\n\nTo date, the Scale of Ethnocultural Empathy (SEE) is the only formally published measurement of ethnocultural empathy. SEE is composed of three instrumental aspects: intellectual empathy, empathic emotions, and the communication of those two.\n\nIntellectual empathy is the ability to understand a racially or ethnically different person's thinking and/or feeling. It is also the ability to perceive the world as the other person does; that is, racial or ethnic perspective taking.\n\nThe empathic emotions component of ethnocultural empathy is attention to the feeling of a person or persons from another ethnocultural group to the degree that one is able to feel the other's emotional condition from the point of view of that person's racial or ethnic culture. In addition, it refers to a person's emotional response to the emotional display of a person or persons from another ethnocultural group.\n\nThe communicative empathy component is the expression of ethnocultural empathic thoughts (intellectual empathy) and feelings (empathic emotions) toward members of racial and ethnic groups different from one's own. This component can be expressed through words or actions.\n\nEthnocultural empathy is usually applied in cross-culture and/or cross-ethnics analysis. The levels of ethnocultural empathy were reported to vary by demographic features and societal factors. Previous research indicated that women were more likely to report higher level of ethnocultural empathy than men, Non-White individuals were found to have significantly higher levels of general and specific ethnocultural empathy than their White counterparts. Racism was negatively associated with ethnocultural empathy.\n\nPeople with different levels of ethnocultural empathy were also reported to respond distinctively to individuals who are similar with themselves and those who are not. For example, people with higher level of enthnocultural empathy had been found to work more successfully with individuals from other cultures.\n\nEnthnocultural empathy not only functioned in of enthocultural empathy were reported to be predictive of positive attitude towards minority groups, such as rape victims, domestic violence victims, female leaders, etc.\n\nEnthnocultural cultural empathy has been used in many other research areas such as racialism, feminism, multiculturalism, ethnic identity, etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "33985166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33985166", "title": "Europe Today (play)", "text": "Europe Today (play)\n\nEurope Today is a theatre show produced in cooperation between East West Theatre Company and Slovene National Theatre. The show is based on an essay written by Miroslav Krleza and directed by Haris Pasovic. Production also included Miki Manojlovic, an actor; Edward Clug, a contemporary dancer and choreographer; as well as the industrial, neoclassical band Laibach. The dramaturgy of the production was done by Dubravka Vrgoc, director of Zagreb Youth Theatre. The artists, who reside in Slovenia, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, rehearsed in Maribor's Slovene National Theatre during February 2011. The show opened February 16 and it provoked great regional and international interest.\n\nThe poster image for \"Europe Today\" depicts an SA-style trooper, but instead of the swastika, his armband and the flag he carries show the 12 stars of the EU. The image is partly playful, a homage to the Neue Slowenische Kunst art movement whose most prominent exponents, the band Laibach, are collaborators in this Serbian-Bosnian-Croatian-Slovenian-Romanian-created work, which in 2011 played in Maribor, Slovenia and Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina. \nThe show is a 75-minute collage of words and images: Serbian actor Miki Manojlović recites Krleža’s words, Romanian-born dancer and choreographer Edward Clug represents its arguments in movement while Laibach performs a number of radically reimagined European national anthems. \n"}
{"id": "38558185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38558185", "title": "Everyday Aesthetics", "text": "Everyday Aesthetics\n\nEveryday Aesthetics is a recent subfield of philosophical aesthetics focusing on everyday events, settings and activities in which the faculty of sensibility is saliently at stake. Alexander Baumgarten established Aesthetics as a discipline and defined it as \"scientia cognitionis sensitivae\", the science of sensory knowledge, in his foundational work \"Aesthetica\" (1750). This field has been dedicated since then to the clarification of fine arts, beauty and taste only marginally referring to the aesthetics in design, crafts, urban environments and social practice until the emergence of everyday aesthetics during the ‘90s. As other subfields like environmental aesthetics or the aesthetics of nature, everyday aesthetics also attempts to countervail aesthetics' almost exclusive focus on the philosophy of art.\n\nAesthetic inquiry on everyday life owes much of its approach to John Dewey’s (1934) pragmatist aesthetics, even if he was interested in grounding mainly artistic experience. Dewey pointed at a variety of circumstances in which sensibility is present emphasizing the importance of feeling, energy, and rhythm in every creature’s intercourse with its environment. He thus stressed not only the artistic but the everyday doings and undergoings that involve alertness and intensity of experience. Dewey explored aesthetics from the subjects' experience rather than from objects' status as artworks and museum collections. This turn would allow overcoming object-centric approaches to aesthetics that hindered any consideration of the aesthetic beyond artistic and beautiful things justifiable by intrinsic qualities categorized as aesthetic.\n\nThe neglect of aesthetic theory to consider the role of sensibility in everyday life was first pointed out by Katya Mandoki who in 1994 coined the word Prosaics (drawing a distinction from Aristotle’s Poetics focused on art) to denote a sub-discipline that would specifically inquire the aesthetics involved in daily activities emphasizing the styles and forms of expression in face-to-face and context determined interactions. Prosaics or the theory of everyday aesthetics analyzes in this and subsequent texts the social conventions on what is considered acceptable or not by implicit standards of taste in each institutional setting (school, family, religion, politics, artworld, medical practice, sports). Six books and several articles i.e. \"Everyday Aesthetics; Prosaics, social identities and the play of culture\" (2007) consistently analyze the wide spectrum of the non-artistic within personal and collective experience. The role of the aesthetic is examined through symbolic interaction, identity negotiation and dramaturgical performance to produce specific sensitive effects and impact upon sensibility. As a multi-sensorial phenomenon, prosaics pays attention to the whole range of sensorial display for affecting participants' sensibility (body language, the visual, setting and props, intonation and styles of language) and not only sight and hearing as has been customary in aesthetics.\n\nAn approach to everyday aesthetics involves both the positive and negative, the enriching and the toxic effects operating on sensibility. Joseph H. Kupfer brought to the attention of aesthetic inquiry the importance of focusing on the effects of violence and ultraviolence in modern society. Kupfer makes explicit the aesthetic ground of violence in society and emphasizes destruction as an aesthetic process producing vivid sensations. He highlighted also the need of incorporating aesthetics to education not only by means of teaching art but aesthetically, i.e. in the manner itself of educating through the rhythm, organization of subject matter, and method of presentation to engage students with the content of study. Mandoki points at the negative use of aesthetics for manipulating emotions in the political sphere and refers to Nazi propaganda as a case in point that exemplifies the deliberate use of aesthetics for exerting violence. The utilization of aesthetics for political agendas, specifically in the legitimation of the nation-state is dealt by this author. Arnold Berleant has stressed the negative aspect of everyday aesthetics pointing at the importance of the aesthetic impact of terrorism as well as the use of aesthetics in the political sphere. Berleant brings up other extreme situations that provoke perceptual injury or damage as contemporary urban overcrowding and visual over stimulation, space pollution, claustrophobic and oppressive conditions. For Berleant, aesthetics implies active, intense aesthetic engagement and is thus involved in both positive and negative effects of everyday contemporary urban settings. For Berleant aesthetics of the environment has been a sustained object of research for more than two decades. Since 1970, he has insisted on the importance of aesthetics as a field of experience and active engagement in which our quality of life depends.\n\nYi-Fu Tuan proposed that we should apply the traditional aesthetic categories of beauty, contemplation, disinterestedness, and distancing in valuing daily life through different non artistic objects and locations. Already in 1974 he insisted on the need of paying due attention to the environment as object of aesthetic appreciation. Along this line Crispin Sartwell also proposed in 1995 applying aesthetics to life itself. Yuriko Saito, an environmentalist aesthetician specializing in Japanese aesthetics, argues for paying attention to weather as worthy of aesthetic appreciation and for making moral and aesthetic judgments on everyday artifacts, landscapes, lawns, and neighborhood eyesores that are conflicting with the harmony of the environment. Saito advocates a self-critical artification of everyday life and warns about the risks of artificating business. Paulina Rautio has performed qualitative analysis by interviews and epistolary exchange with women in regards to their experience of beauty through non artistic items and their contexts such as hanging laundry in Lapland where the opportunity of drying clothes under the sun is rare. There is a common interest in this approach for understanding aesthetics as a theory of art and beauty following traditional categories and at the same time attempting to go beyond conventional borders of art by artificating the non art and extending its scope to everyday objects, environments and to living itself. That is the case of Horacio Pérez-Henao who tries to interpret literature under the scope of everyday aesthetics by pointing out how fictional characters experience aesthetics into their daily lives .\n\nEvery work of art has, since the Renaissance, tried to expand themes worthy of artistic expression and concepts of artistic value to include new subject matters, techniques and styles in painting and sculpture, new harmonies, consonances or dissonances in music, new attitudes, gestures, and different genres and requirements of quality. However the initiative of applying the concept of art literally to non artistic activities within a theoretical framework related to everyday aesthetics came from philosophers like David Best, Wolfgang Welsch and Lev Kreft proposing to consider sports as an art form. Feminist aestheticians are also advocating for the inclusion of other senses beyond the two traditional sight and hearing, as in taste (Carolyn Korsmeyer) and smell (Emily Brady), that can render aesthetic experiences in daily life.\nCarolyn Korsmeyer, M. Quinet and Glenn Kuehn argue for including food among aesthetically relevant objects and experiences.\n\nAnother line emerging from analytic aesthetics and the American Society of Aesthetics has been lately discussing the expansion of aesthetics’ category repertoire to include other qualities (cuteness, prettiness, messiness, neatness, cuddleness loveliness, organized, disorganized) as well as other types of ordinary experiences (i.e. scratching an itch, playing with a pencil).\n\nBourdieu, Pierre \"Distinction: A Social Critique of the Judgment of Taste\" (London: Routledge Kegan Paul 1984).\n\nDe Certeau, Michel \"The Practice of Everyday Life\" (Berkeley: University of California 1998).\n\nDickie, George \"The Myth of the Aesthetic Attitude” Philip Alperson (ed). \"The Philosophy of the Visual Arts\" (New York/Oxford: Oxford University Press 1992).\n\nDufrenne, Mikel \"In the Presence of the Sensuous\" Roberts, Mark.S. Gallagher, Dennis. (eds). (New Jersey: Humanities Press International 1987).\n\nGoffman, Erving \"Interaction Rituals\" (New York: Doubleday 1967).\nKolnai, Aurel \"On Disgust\" Korsmeyer, Carolyn and Barry Smith ( eds). (Open Court Press, 2004).\n\nNaukkarinen, Ossi \"Aesthetics of the Unavoidable; Aesthetic Variations in Human Appearance\". (Lahti: International Institute of Applied Aesthetics 1998).\n\nParret, Herman \"Le sublime du quotidien\" (Paris : Hadès 1988).\n\nVercelloni, Luca \"The Invention of Taste. A Cultural Account of Desire, Delight and Disgust in Fashion, Food and Art\" (London: Bloomsbury, 2016) \n"}
{"id": "56186561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56186561", "title": "Gandharvanpattu", "text": "Gandharvanpattu\n\nGandharvanpattu is a ritual artform in North Kerala. This ritual is mainly performed by Vannan. There is five theyyams called Rudhirakkali, Varavakkali, Devathe, Mekkkaruvaal, Gandharvan in gandharvanpattu. This ritual is performed for the blessing of bhootam. The ritual is performed in the style of kalam pattu in Kavu. In past times this artform is performed on the houses where pregnant women live to eliminate different kinds of badha(ghost). Pulluvaveena and Pulluvakkudam are also used in Gandharvan Pattu.\n\nIn 2017 this artform is performed again in stage.\n\nThis art is also known as Kenthran Pattu\n"}
{"id": "51101525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51101525", "title": "Hind-Pak Bordernama", "text": "Hind-Pak Bordernama\n\nHind-Pak Bordernama (2015) is a Punjabi novel written by Nirmal Singh Nimma Langha. This is an autobiographical work based on Nimma's own love story.\n\nIn 1981 Langha, an Indian Sikh, was studying for an M.A. degree in Punjabi literature at Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar in India. There he got influenced by Naxalite movement and started to write songs and poems. At that time, he fell in love with Naseema, a Muslim girl from Punjab, Pakistan. To meet the girl, Langha crossed the India-Pakistan border several times, in the 1980s, without any visa or authorization. According to Langha, Naseema too crossed the border once and visited Punjab, India and Delhi. After two and a half years, Langha was arrested by a Pakistani security agency. Naseema fought very hard and even arranged to have Langha released. In 1986, Langha met Naseema for the last time. In 1988, barbed wires were installed on the India-Pakistan border. After that they never met again.\n\nLangha told his story to Punjabi writer Gurbachan Singh Bhullar and Bhullar suggested to pen it down. Following this suggestion, Langha started writing this novel in 1995, but no publisher was ready to publish it because the novel contained details of illegal immigration. In 2015, the novel was published by Chak Staran Prakashan. The book launching event took place on 10 October 2015 at 'Punjabi Bhawan' in Ludhiana.\n"}
{"id": "42091517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42091517", "title": "Historical monuments in Pristina", "text": "Historical monuments in Pristina\n\nHistorical monuments in Pristina are made up of 21 monuments out of a total of 426 protected monuments all over Kosovo.\nA large number of these monuments date back to the Byzantine and Ottoman periods.\nSince 1945, the Yugoslav authorities followed the idea of constructing a modern Pristina by relying in the urban development motto “destroy the old, build the new” and this resulted with major changes in the structure of the buildings, their function and their surrounding\nenvironment. However, numerous types of monuments have been preserved, including four mosques, a restored orthodox church, an Ottoman bath, a public fountain, a clock tower, several traditional houses as well as European-influenced architecture buildings such as the Museum of Kosovo. These symbolize the historical and cultural character of Pristina as it was developed throughout centuries in the spirit of conquering empires (Roman, Byzantine, Ottoman and Austro-Hungarian).\n\nThe city of Pristina has always been an area in flux with people coming and going. It has been inhabited for nearly 10.000 years. The early Neolithic findings dating from the 8th century BC were discovered in the areas surrounding Pristina such as: Matiqan, Gracanica and Ulpiana.\nIn the Roman period, Pristina was part of the province of Dardania and nearby Ulpiana which was considered one of the most important Roman cities in the whole Balkans, became a Roman municipium in the 2nd century AD.\nThe city was damaged by an earthquake in AD 518 and it was again rebuilt by the Byzantine Emperor Justinian I who renamed it Iustiniana Secunda. By the arrival of Slavs in the 6th century, the city fell again in reconstruction.\nDuring the 14th and the 15th century, Pristina was classified as an important mining and trading center on the Balkan market due to its position near the rich mining town of Novo Brdo. Pristina was famous for its trade fairs and items, such as goatskin and goat hair, as well as gunpowder produced by artisans from Pristina in 1485.\nThe first mosque in Pristina was built in the late 14th century, while under the Serbian rule.\nPristina was considered to be an important town in Medieval Serbia by having been a royal estate of Stefan Milutin, Stefan Uroš III, Stefan Dušan, Stefan Uroš V and Vuk Branković. In the early Ottoman era, Islam was spread increasingly throughout the population. In those years Pristina was part of the Vushtrri sancak and its 2.000 families enjoyed the peace and the stability of this era. During the 17th century, citizens of Pristina led by the Albanian priest Pjeter Bogdani vowed loyalty to the Austrian army and its troops. Following the defeat of the Austrian Army in 1960, Pristina’s inhabitants were left under the mercy of the Ottoman troops, who took revenge of the latter ones for collaborating with the Austrians.\nA communist decision to make Pristina the capital of Kosovo happened in 1947 during a period of a rapid development and structural despair. A famous slogan spread during this period was “destroy the old, build the new”.\n\nThe Sultan Mehmet Fatih Mosque, also known as the Imperial Mosque (), is located in the old quarter of Pristina opposite the clock tower.\n\nIt was built in 1460–1461 during the reign of the Ottoman Sultan Mehmet II, also known as al-Fatih or the Conqueror and was named in his honor. Its interior features ornamental decorations and detailed floral designs, as well as a 15-meter dome, which was quite impressive for a 15th-century construction. It was recognized region-wide as the largest construction of this nature. In 1689, the mosque was temporarily converted into a Jesuit church dedicated to Francis Xavier by the Austrian occupants during the Austrian-Turkish wars.\nThe Imperial Mosque was restored during the rule of Sultan Mehmet IV in 1682–1683, whereas the present-day minaret is a reconstruction of the original, which was damaged during the earthquake that struck Pristina in 1955.\nThe mosque presently suffers from damage that has been caused over time; moisture is the biggest threat, harming the walls and stones of the construction.\n\nThe Jashar Pasha Mosque, located in the historic centre of the city of Pristina, is a remarkable\nand notable part of Ottoman cultural heritage in this part of the Balkans.\nIt was named after Jashar Mehmet Pasha, a wealthy citizen of Pristina and mayor of Skopje in 1842. Inscriptions found inside the mosque led to the conclusion that it was built in 1834. Jashar Pasha Mosque is a typical architectural monument for old cities with Ottoman heritage. It symbolizes a sacral building of ‘Kosovar style’ with an acknowledgement of oriental influence. Its aim was to speed up the acceptance of Islam among the citizens of Pristina. It is composed of a hall for prayers, hayat and a minaret. The mosque is disguised by a cupola supported by four pendentives.\nThe original portico was torn down to give way to an expansion of the neighboring street. Currently, the building is in danger of being damaged as a result of humidity coming from the cracks in its walls. The particular characteristics of this monument and the attributes of the historical area where it is situated constitute the main components for the development of cultural tourism.\n\nThe Carshi Mosque, also known as the Bazaar Mosque and the Taş Mosque (literally, the Stone Mosque)\n\n(), is the oldest building in Pristina and it marks the beginning of the old town.\nThe basement of this mosque was laid out in 1389 during the rule of the Ottoman Sultan Bayezid I and its construction was continued during the reign of Sultan Murad II in the 15th century.\nThe Carshi Mosque was built to celebrate the Ottoman victory of 1389 in the Battle of Kosovo. Over the years, the mosque has undergone through several restorations. However, its stone-topped minaret has survived for over six centuries (hence, it is often referred to as the Taş Mosque, or the Stone Mosque).\n\nPirinaz Mosque was built in the second half of the 16th century and was founded by Piri Nazir who served as Vezir under two Ottoman Sultans. The Pirinaz Mosque is made of the same stone as Mbretit (Fatih) Mosque but its construction began 100 years later. This mosque represents an important cultural value, which is further increased by the belief that Prince Lazar’s remains were buried on the location of today’s Pirinaz Mosque with the permission of Sultan Bayezid, son and successor of Murat, who died in the battle of Kosovo in 1389. Later on, Lazar’s remains were moved to Ravanici Monastery in Serbia. Furthermore, the local legend has it that “Stone of Lazar” located in the garden of Pirinaz Mosque was used to behead Prince Lazar. However, the real circumstances encompassing Lazar’s death, remain unknown.\n\nThe Saint Nicholas Church is the only remaining operative Serbian Orthodox Church in Pristina. It is housed in a 19th-century building, which was damaged during the 2004 unrest in Kosovo and was restored thereafter with European Union funding. It used to showcase 18th century wooden icons, created by painters based in Debar, Macedonia, several 18th century frescos and an iconostasis of 1840 from Belgrade, Serbia, which were all irreversibly damaged during the 2004 unrest.\nThe Saint Nicholas Church once again began to hold liturgies in 2010 in a ceremony attended by a few hundred Serbian Orthodox believers.\nIt now features a revamped exterior, restored roof, new marble tiles and new icons.\n\nThe Great Hammam dates back to the 15th century. It used to be part of the complex of the Sultan Murat Fatih Mosque and according to the legend, the construction workers who were hired to build Fatih Mosque were ordered by Sultan Mehmet II to take daily baths in the hammam. It had two symmetrical baths, one for women and the other one for men. The hammam is composed of 15 domes with small holes which are used to let the light penetrate in. A fire that occurred in 1994, resulted with an illegal opening of three shops which blocked the old entrance. Unfortunately, a hammam that once used to be a prestigious social venue for men and women, for many years looked abandoned with only few remaining walls full of rubbish, overgrown trees and wastewaters flowing inside of the building. However, the complex underwent through a restoration process.\n\nShadërvan is a marble fountain located between the Carshi Mosque and the Museum of Kosovo and is a typical component of Ottoman architecture. The fountain is the only one remaining in the city from over fifty that once existed. In addition to providing a source of drinkable water, Shadërvan has been traditionally used for ritual ablution.\n\nThe Kosovo Museum was once the seat of the vilayet of Kosovo, while now is housed in an Austro-Hungarian architecture yellow building. It was built by the Austrian occupants for the Turkish Army in 1898.\n\nSet in the old quarter of Pristina, the Ethnological Museum “Emin Gjiku” is a typical example of the Ottoman influence in the city and is included in the cultural heritage of the city. The complex features several buildings which now showcase exhibitions of various cultural artifacts. The complex once belonged to Emin Gjinolli (Turkish \"Emin Kücük\"); literally, ‘little Emin’ - who was a member of one of the most recognized families of Pristina in the 20th century. It has been protected by law since 1957, while it was only turned into an ethnological museum in 2006 after undergoing through a restoration process. The Ethnological Museum “Emin Gjiku” is composed of a traditional guest house, an arts studio, a family home and a permanent ethnological exhibition. The latter one showcases clothing items and artifacts related to birth, wedding and funeral ceremonies.\n\nKosovo Institute for the Preservation of Cultural Monuments, also known as Kocadishi House is an Ottoman merchant’s home that features a veranda on the first floor and high walls for business and family purposes, which belonged to the Kocadishi family in 1954.\nThe family migrated to Turkey as a result of a special treaty between Yugoslavia and Turkey in 1953. The house, which has survived and is close to the city’s old clock tower, is now being used by the Kosovo Institute for the Protection of Monuments.\n\nThe exact year of the establishment of the \"Hivzi Sylejmani\" library is not confirmed; it is believed to have begun its work in February 1945. At the time of the inauguration, approximately 1,300 books were available in the Serbian and Albanian language.\nThe library has been in its present location only since 1947, whereas the building itself was built in 1930. The building is also notable because of the fact that Miladin Popović, the former leader of Kosovo's Regional Committee who was murdered in 1945, was accommodated in this house.\n\"Hivzi Sylejmani\" library was officially and legally established in April 1963 by the Municipal Assembly of Pristina.\nIts name changed several times: at some point, it was referred to as the “People's Library”; then, as the \"Public Library Miladin Popović\"; later as the \"City Library\" and so on.\nDuring the 1990s, this library faced many difficulties, especially political ones during the time when Dragolub Petrović acted as the head of the Library.\nBefore 1992, there were approximately 130,611 available books, whilst in 1999 the number decreased to 62,274, of which 38,153 were in Serbian, 19,726 in Albanian, 3,274 in Turkish and 1,121 in other foreign languages. After the end of the Kosovo War, the Library started to recover which also resulted with the opening of its chain all over Kosovo.\n\nThe Hynyler House symbolizes a typical Ottoman konak. It is a private house, which has been under the list of the protected monuments since 1967 and the family living there have been trying to take their house off this list.\n\nThe Clock Tower was built in the 19th century\nThe original tower was burned in fire and its bricks were used for reconstruction. The authentic bell was brought from Moldova and had the inscription “This bell was produced in 1764 for Jon Moldova Rumenin” However, the circumstances of how the bell was brought to Pristina are not clearly known; its theft in 2001 is even more unclear The same year, French KFOR troops assisted in installing a new clock by changing the old clock mechanism with an electric one.\n\nThe Jewish cemetery, which dates back to the 19th century, is a burial site in the outskirts of Pristina consisting of 57 tombstones. The city was once home to a Jewish community numbering over 1,500 people, who settled in the Balkans during the late 15th century from Spain after escaping the Reconquista. Up until 2011, the cemetery was in a devastating condition due to neglect; it was then restored by a team of international and Kosovan university students, but it was afterwards vandalized by unknown subjects. This attack was condemned by several local and international institutions.\n\nTjerrtorja was a neolithic settlement which was identified accidentally in the 1950s somewhere around the outskirts of Pristina. The neolithic site was named after the discovery place, where a factory was started to be built known as the cotton and textile production plant Tjerrtorja.\nThe area was believed to have had an abundant collection of terracotta figurines, human shaped statues and baked clay anthropomorphic artifacts. One of the most impressive terracotta figurines which has been discovered after some continuous excavation within this area was called “The Goddess on Throne”.\n\nThe Mausoleum of Sultan Murat I, also known as \"Bajraktari Türbe\", is a religious object built in honour of Sultan Murat I, who was killed in the Battle of Kosovo in 1389. The building constructed in 1850, does not actually contain the remains of Sultan Murat since they have been moved to the imperial museum in Bursa, Turkey.\nIt is currently in a bad state since it was heavily damaged during the Kosovo War. In addition to a garden, there is little to see inside of the building; an important feature of the garden is a 700‑year‑old mulberry tree which survived from the war. A small group of people from Pristina who follow the Sadije Dervish order, of which Sultan Murat’s standard- bearer is believed to have been a member, try to look after and to keep the building protected from the further decay.\n\nThe building of the former “Hotel Union” was built in 1927 under the supervision of the Austrian architect, Andrija Kremer. It combined elements of neo-Renaissance, neo-baroque and Art Nouveau and was one of the few buildings in Pristina with European-architecture influence. During the first few decades of its existence, it was named “Hotel Skënderbeu” after the 15th century Albanian resistance leader, Skanderbeg and this was witnessed by his ingrained icons on the building. After World War II, the building was nationalized by the government and was renamed as “Hotel Union”. The discussions for the future of the building sparked in 2008 when the Municipality of Pristina announced its intentions of flattening the building of the former “Hotel Union”, under the pretense that it did not possess any noteworthy architectural value and that it should make way for the new boulevard “Ibrahim Rugova” that was to be built. This was confirmed by some experts who assessed that about 80% of the historical values had been irreversibly damaged. This was met with objections by groups who advocated for its restoration to its original state. Also, the Institute for the Protection of Monuments of Kosovo voiced its recommendation for the immediate restoration on a publication.\nThe condition of the building was further worsened when it was set on fire in 2009. A homeless man was shortly after arrested under the suspicion of committing this crime. The confusion appeared to be finally solved in 2010, when the Council of Kosovo for Cultural Heritage announced its agreement with the Italian fashion retailer The United Colors of Benetton to restore the building to a near-original state. After the restoration works were completed in 2013, The United Colors of Benetton inaugurated a 2,000 square meters store in the premises of the renovated building of former “Hotel Union”.\n\nThe Old Hammam belongs to those cultural monuments that have been collapsed throughout times but are still remembered as objects with tremendous impacts in a country’s historical culture. According to some sources, the hammam was built in the 15th century around the same time as the Great Hammam. Currently, there is nothing left from it and even its ruins that were discovered closed to today’s government building, have been covered rapidly by former town planners.\n\nThe old bazaar belongs to the old unsustainable structures which were demolished during war conflicts. The bazaar, which was ravaged in 1953, was situated in the heart of the old city of Pristina. It had more than 300 shops as well as other objects such as: the mosque, the main Christian church, the old Ottoman hammam, a synagogue and a huge number of houses belonging to the old Ottoman architecture.\n\nSeveral of the historical monuments in Pristina have undergone through an irregular restoration process, whose aim was to preserve the cultural and historical heritage of the city. Among these, the Sultan Mehmet Fatih Mosque, the Carshi Mosque, the Saint Nicholas Church, the clock tower, the Jewish cemetery all underwent through separate processes of renovation and revitalization throughout their years of existence. The restoration was conducted throughout different periods and by different institutions or individuals. In this regard, the Sultan Mehmet Fatih Mosque was restored by Sultan Mehmet IV in the late 17th century, the Saint Nicholas Church with financial means of the European Union and the Jewish cemetery by university students. In addition, the renovation of the Carshi Mosque was conducted by the Municipality of Pristina and its investment reached figures as high as half a million euros.\n\nThe process of the restoration of the Great Hammam initially began in 2007 and was initiated by the Municipality of Pristina and the Cultural Heritage without Borders office in Kosovo.\nThe total investment made in the restoration process is estimated to have been in the region of 700 thousand euros and this was divided into three phases. These consisted of investigation and assessment, structural restoration and attempts for re-functioning. The Great Hammam was inaugurated in October 2013, despite the fact that restoration was still undergoing at that time. There were attempts to open a museum showcasing neolithic artifacts from Pristina and the region and an arts gallery inside the hammam. However, the restoration process was met with controversy by some officials and governmental institutions of Kosovo. In this sense, the Ministry of Culture of Kosovo put a halt to the renovation process in February 2013 due to their questioning of the construction material used.\nThe works were restarted in May 2013 after a commission recommended that the material be replaced with a mixture that was closer to the authentic one. Moreover, officials of the Kosovo Council for Cultural Heritage criticized the restoration by noting that the renovations during the period of 2009–2013 had damaged the monument. Gjejlane Hoxha, the executive director of this institution stated that the monument was in an improper situation and that its integrity and authenticity were threatened by the aftermaths of the uncontrolled activities of the restoration process and its conversion into a museum of Pristina. Moreover, she stated that if no specific action was to be undertaken to improve the image of this object, she would direct her concern to the Prosecution of Kosovo. She channeled her concern to the Ministry of Culture, Youth and Sports of Kosovo through a written statement, in which she expressed her unsettlement for the conservation process.\nFurthermore, the entire restoration process was delayed several times; the entire process took over six years to be completed.\n\nThe boundaries of the old town of Pristina were judicially regulated by the Detailed Urban Plan in 1978 by the Institute of Urban Planning of the Municipality of Pristina. This covered an area of 8,2 ha and according to it, this was the only area in the city which consisted of culturally significant buildings and landmarks. However, the area suffered from illegal constructions that sprang up after the period of the conflict in Kosovo and in order to address this issue, the authorities for urban planning of Pristina approved a strategic plan in 2004. Relying on the Law for Spatial Planning (no. 2003/4) and the Regulation on the Self-Governance of Kosovo Municipalities (no. 2000/45), in 2006 the Municipal Assembly of Pristina initiated a regulatory plan which defined boundaries that comprised an area of 26 ha. This was amended in 2009 by further adding new zones which came up to 42 ha. Moreover, the regulatory plan is expected to be further expanded and improved, as witnessed on the 2012 strategic plan of the Municipality of Pristina.\n\nOn the other hand, individual monuments have been protected by law with various decisions and regulations, which were mostly approved in the 1950s and 1960s. The following table indicates the year of the adaptation of judicial means to preserve some of the historical monuments of Pristina:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1789850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1789850", "title": "Internationalism (linguistics)", "text": "Internationalism (linguistics)\n\nIn linguistics, an internationalism or international word is a loanword that occurs in several languages (that is, translingually) with the same or at least similar meaning and etymology. These words exist in \"several different languages as a result of simultaneous or successive borrowings from the ultimate source\" (I.V.Arnold). Pronunciation and orthography are similar so that the word is understandable between the different languages.\n\nIt is debated how many languages are required so that a word is an internationalism. Furthermore, the languages required can also depend on the specific target language at stake. For example, according to Ghil'ad Zuckermann, the most important languages that should include the same lexical item in order for it to qualify as an internationalism in Hebrew are Yiddish, Polish, Russian, French, German and English.\n\nThe term is uncommon in English, although English has contributed a considerable number of words to world languages, e.g. the sport terms: \"football, baseball, cricket, and golf\".\n\nEuropean internationalisms originate primarily from Latin or Greek, but from other languages as well. However, due to English being the main lingua franca of the Western world, an increasing number of internationalisms originate from English. Many non-European words have also become international.\n\nInternationalisms often spread together with the innovations they designate. Accordingly, there are semantic fields dominated by specific languages, e.g. the computing vocabulary which is mainly English with internationalisms such as \"computer\", \"disk\", and \"spam\". New inventions, political institutions, foodstuffs, leisure activities, science, and technological advances have all generated new lexemes and continue to do so: \"bionics, cybernetics, gene, coffee, chocolate, etc\"..\n\nSome internationalisms are spread by speakers of one language living in geographical regions where other languages are spoken. For example, some internationalisms coming from the English in India are \"bungalow\", \"jute\", \"khaki\", \"mango\", \"pyjamas\", and \"sari\".\n\nDue to their widespread use, internationalisms are often loaned into international auxiliary languages. Many constructed IALs borrow vocabulary that is already known by learners, so that they are as easy as possible to learn.\n\nInternationalisms that occur in many languages are usually eligible to be included in Interlingua. Early internationalisms, such as those from French and German, tend to be part of Interlingua's basic vocabulary. Later internationalisms, often from English, tend to be Interlingua loanwords. Among Asian languages, Arabic most often provides basic vocabulary, while Japanese contributes recent loanwords.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1758227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1758227", "title": "It Happened at the World's Fair", "text": "It Happened at the World's Fair\n\nIt Happened at the World's Fair is a 1963 American musical film starring Elvis Presley as a cropdusting pilot. It was filmed in Seattle, Washington, site of the \"Century 21 Exposition\", the 1962 World's Fair. The governor of Washington at the time, Albert Rosellini, suggested the setting to Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer executives. The film made $2.25 million at the box office.\n\nPilot Mike Edwards finds himself in a dilemma, his partner and friend Danny, gambles away the money Mike had set aside to pay their debts. Since they lost their money and a $1,200 debt, the local sheriff takes possession of their plane, Bessie, a Boeing-Stearman Model 75 cropduster. If they cannot come up with the money in twelve days, Bessie will be auctioned off to the highest bidder.\n\nMike and Danny become reluctant hitchhikers, looking for a lift to anywhere. They are picked up by apple farmer Walter Ling and his niece Sue-Lin. They end up in Seattle, Washington, location of the 1962 World's Fair. When the uncle is called away on business, Danny persuades Mike to take Sue-Lin to tour the local World's Fair. It is during a visit to the doctor at the fair that Mike falls for Diane Warren, an attractive but stubborn nurse who resists Mike's advances. He gives a quarter to a boy (a very young Kurt Russell) who kicks him in the shin, so that he can be treated by her. Diane's supervisor then convinces her to give Mike a ride back to his apartment, convinced his leg is injured. Mike and Diane dine at the top of the fair's Space Needle. However, he also courts Dorothy Johnson. \n\nComplications then arise. Walter inexplicably fails to come back the next day to get Sue-Lin, leaving her with Mike. Sue-Lin feigns illness so that nurse Diane will come to their apartment and examine her and see Mike again. When Diane discovers that Mike has no kinship to Sue-Lin, she wants to inform the Welfare Board so that Sue-Lin can be removed from Mike and Danny's apartment. There is a mysterious nightfall plane delivery for Mike's and Danny's friend Vince, who is smuggling valuable furs. The film ends with Mike and Diane in love.\n\n\nThe Seattle Center, including the Seattle Center Monorail and the Space Needle, serve as backdrops for several scenes in the film. Security officers pursue Presley and the girl through the fountains at what is now the Pacific Science Center. The hitchhiking scene with Elvis and Gary Lockwood was filmed near Camarillo, California, as were some of the flying scenes. The entire hitchhiking scene to the point where they are both picked up by Kam Tong and Vicky Tiu Cayetano in the truck is easily recognizable as 5th Street near Pleasant Valley Road on the South side of Camarillo. While \"The Elvis Encyclopedia\" believes that the Wilburton Trestle was shown in the movie, further evidence points to a different location. It is actually a trestle over the White River between Enumclaw and Buckley, now demolished. The view in the movie was taken at the intersection of Mud Mountain Road and Highway 410, looking southeasterly. Mount Rainier is visible in the background, which isn't seen at that angle from the Wilburton Trestle. The Wilburton Trestle is actually bigger than the White River Trestle, at six sections high. The trestle pictured in the movie is only four sections high at the road crossing.\n\nEugene Archer of \"The New York Times\" wrote, \"Elvis Presley's budding dramatic talents have been neatly nipped in the Seattle story, which emerges as a dismal parody of the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer musicals of old. Burdened with a dozen tuneless songs and a plot requiring him to play guardian to a mercilessly cute Chinese waif, the crooner merely swivels ingenuously through a morass of clichés.\" \"Variety\" wrote that \"this is apt to be tedious going for all but the most confirmed of Presley's young admirers. The 10-count-'em-10 tunes he sings may be cause for rejoicing among his more ardent followers but, stacked up proportionately against the skinny story in between, it seems at least three too many ... so many warbling interruptions upset the tempo of the yarn and prevent plot and picture from gathering momentum.\" John L. Scott of the \"Los Angeles Times\" wrote that \"it must be said that unless you're a Presley fan, the 10 songs he offers while plinking a guitar or ukulele can grow tedious, while the frivolous backgrounding story is turned on and off between tunes.\" \n\nThe film was released to DVD by Warner Home Video on August 7, 2007 as a Region 1 Widescreen DVD.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41775918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41775918", "title": "Kamëntsá", "text": "Kamëntsá\n\nThe Kamëntsá are an indigenous people of Colombia. They primarily live in the Sibundoy Valley of the Putumayo Department in the south of Colombia.\n\nThe Kamëntsá also are known as the Camsá, Camëntsëá, Coche, Kamemtxa, Kamsa, Kamse, Sibundoy, and Sibundoy-Gaché people.\n\nThe Camsá language is a language isolate, although linguists have tried to connect it to the Chibchan language family in the past. The language is written in the Latin script. \n\nThey are known for their carved wooden masks that are worn during ceremonies and festivals. They farm maize, beans, potatoes, and peas, and use a number of different entheogens, including ayahuasca (yagé), \"Brugmansia\" species, \"Iochroma fuchsioides\" and \"Desfontainia\" in their rituals. Kamëntsá shamans are noted for the number and variety of \"Brugmansia\" cultivars which they have propagated in their gardens of entheogenic plants, and which bear leaves in a wide variety of curiously misshapen forms. One of these cultivars - 'Culebra' ('snake' in Spanish) proved so aberrant that it was, for a time, actually removed from \"Brugmansia\" and accorded monotypic genus status as Methysticodendron (Greek : 'intoxicating tree'), the full Linnaean binomial of the plant becoming \"Methysticodendron amesianum\" before it was subsumed once more in \"Brugmansia\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16433959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16433959", "title": "Korunk", "text": "Korunk\n\nKorunk (meaning \"Our Age\" in English) is a Hungarian language monthly cultural-literary-scientific magazine published in Cluj-Napoca, Romania. \n\n\"Korunk\" was founded by Laszlo Dienes in Cluj-Napoca in 1926. The magazine ceased publication in 1940, and began publication in 1957. In 1929 Gabor Gaal became its editor-in-chief. Ernö Gáll is the long-term editor-in-chief of the magazine who served in the post between 1957 and 1984.\n\nThe magazine has a Marxist political stance and progressive literary approach. It is published on a monthly basis.\n\n"}
{"id": "11026266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11026266", "title": "Litigation public relations", "text": "Litigation public relations\n\nLitigation public relations is the management of the communication process during the course of any legal dispute or adjudicatory processing so as to affect the outcome or its impact on the client’s overall reputation (Haggerty, 2003).\n\nPlaintiffs and prosecutors have long used mass media to get their side of the story out to the public, but the formal practice of litigation PR, a sub-specialty of crisis communication, first emerged in the early 1980s with Alan Hilburg, a pioneer in litigation communications representation of U.S. Tobacco in the Marsee case. Since then, the need for litigation PR has grown tremendously as media coverage of court cases and the law has increased. Most parties to a lawsuit have important interests that expand beyond legal concerns. Negative publicity about a litigant can cause damage to an individuals reputation that a courtroom win years later may not salvage. Thus, parties to cases, whether civil or criminal, can not ignore the impact of negative publicity on public opinion (Reber, Gower, & Robinson, 2006).\n\nLitigation PR is the management of the communication process prior to and during the course of any legal dispute or adjudicatory processing so as to affect the outcome or its impact on the client’s overall reputation (Haggerty, 2003).\n\nBasic Concepts of Litigation Public Relations—\n\nThe First Concept—Litigation PR is to influence the outcome of the court case by encouraging early or favorable settlement or by pressuring the prosecution into bringing lesser or no charges (Haggerty, 2003).\n\nThe Second Concept—Litigation PR is to protect the client’s reputation before and during the trial. In this regard, litigation PR is akin to reputation management. Reputation management is about managing public perception of an organization or individual. It is about attitude toward the individual and not knowledge itself. An essential aspect of reputation management is influencing attitude about the individual and corporation, which can encourage positive activation to the benefit of the organization (Haywood, 2002).\n\nLitigation PR on the part of defendants is needed, especially in high-profile cases because the media have an inherent bias in favor of plaintiffs and prosecutors. When allegations are made public, the media tend to cast the lawsuit in terms of victim versus villain. News stories frequently lead with the plaintiff or prosecutors’ allegations. If the defendant’s responses are included at all, they appear well into the story. Thus, the defendant is forced on the defensive from the outset. In such situation, “working with the media to create more balanced, accurate, and less sensational coverage of a lawsuit is necessary element in defending high profile defendants\" (Hantler, Schwartz, & Goldberg, 2004, p. 8).\n\n\nTo achieve those objectives, the first step is to establish credibility with the media as an information source. The next step is to control the flow of information to the media so that the right message gets out. The third step is to develop a message that supports the client’s position and get that message out to the media and the public (Fitzpatrick, 1996, Haggerty, 2003, Reber, Gower, & Robinson, 2006).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "295235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=295235", "title": "Lowrider", "text": "Lowrider\n\nA lowrider (sometimes low rider) is a class or style of customized vehicle. Distinct from a regular lowered vehicle, these customized vehicles are generally individually painted with intricate, colorful designs, rolling on wire-spoke wheels with whitewall tires. Lowrider rims range from 13\"-20\". They are also fitted with hydraulic or air bag systems that allow the vehicle to be raised or lowered at the owner's command. Given these specific characteristics, while a lowrider is always a lowered car, a lowered car is not always a lowrider. The term is used to describe a class of vehicle, not simply the height from ground to chassis.\n\nThe term \"lowrider\" can also refer to the driver of the car.\n\nIt began in Los Angeles, California in the mid-to-late 1940s and during the post-war prosperity of the 1950s. Initially, some Mexican-American barrio youths lowered blocks, cut spring coils, z’ed the frames and dropped spindles. The aim of the lowriders is to cruise as slowly as possible, \"Low and Slow\" being their motto. By redesigning these cars in ways that go against their intended purposes and in painting their cars so that they reflect and hold meanings from Mexican culture, lowriders create cultural and political statements that go against the more prevalent Anglo culture. The design of the cars encouraged a \"bi-focal perspective-they are made to be watched but only after adjustments have been made to provide ironic and playful commentary on prevailing standard of automobile design.\" However, this resulted in a backlash: the enactment of Section 24008 of the California Vehicle Code in January 1, 1958, which made it illegal to operate any car modified so that any part was lower than the bottoms of its wheel rims.\nIn 1959, a customizer named Ron Aguirre developed a way of bypassing the law with the use of hydraulic Pesco pumps and valves that allowed him to change ride height at the flick of a switch. The following year saw the emergence of the Chevrolet Impala, which featured an X-shaped frame that was perfectly suited for lowering and modification with hydraulics. Between 1960 and 1975, customizers adapted and refined GM X-frames, hydraulics, and airbrushing techniques to create the modern lowrider style.\n\nIn the 1990s, lowriders became strongly associated with West Coast Hip hop and G-Funk culture. Dr. Dre, Snoop Dogg, Warren G, South Central Cartel, Eazy-E and Above the Law among others featured lowriders prominently in their music videos.\n\nToday, the lowriding scene is diverse with many different participating cultures, vehicle makes, and visual styles. At first, lowriders were only seen in places like LA, especially back in the 1970s on Whittier Boulevard when lowriding came to its peak. Whittier was a wide commercial street that cut through the barrio of the city in Los Angeles, California. On Saturday nights, young Mexican Americans went cruising along Whittier in their lowriders. Lowriders nowadays have gotten fairly popular: lowriders can be seen all over the country from coast to coast, but recently they have been spreading to other places around the world. Lowriding culture has also spread to Japan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "180030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=180030", "title": "Melting pot", "text": "Melting pot\n\nThe melting pot is a monocultural metaphor for a heterogeneous society becoming more homogeneous, the different elements \"melting together\" into a harmonious whole with a common culture or vice versa, for a homogeneous society becoming more heterogeneous through the influx of foreign elements with different cultural background with a potential creation of disharmony with the previous culture. Historically, it is often used to describe the assimilation of immigrants to the United States. The melting-together metaphor was in use by the 1780s. The exact term \"melting pot\" came into general usage in the United States after it was used as a metaphor describing a fusion of nationalities, cultures and ethnicities in the 1908 play of the same name.\n\nThe desirability of assimilation and the melting pot model has been reconsidered by proponents of multiculturalism, who have suggested alternative metaphors to describe the current American society, such as a \"mosaic\", \"salad bowl\", or \"kaleidoscope\", in which different cultures mix, but remain distinct in some aspects.\n\nIn the 18th and 19th centuries, the metaphor of a \"crucible\" or \"smelting pot\" was used to describe the fusion of different nationalities, ethnicities and cultures. It was used together with concepts of the United States as an ideal republic and a \"city upon a hill\" or new promised land. It was a metaphor for the idealized process of immigration and colonization by which different nationalities, cultures and \"races\" (a term that could encompass nationality, ethnicity and race proper) were to blend into a new, virtuous community, and it was connected to utopian visions of the emergence of an American \"new man\". While \"melting\" was in common use the exact term \"melting pot\" came into general usage in 1908, after the premiere of the play \"The Melting Pot\" by Israel Zangwill.\n\nThe first use in American literature of the concept of immigrants \"melting\" into the receiving culture are found in the writings of J. Hector St. John de Crevecoeur. In his \"Letters from an American Farmer\" (1782) Crevecoeur writes, in response to his own question, \"What then is the American, this new man?\" that the American is one who \"leaving behind him all his ancient prejudices and manners, receives new ones from the new mode of life he has embraced, the government he obeys, and the new rank he holds. He becomes an American by being received in the broad lap of our great Alma Mater. Here individuals of all nations are \"melted\" into a new race of men, whose labors and posterity will one day cause great changes in the world.\"\n\nIn 1845, Ralph Waldo Emerson, alluding to the development of European civilization out of the medieval Dark Ages, wrote in his private journal of America as the Utopian product of a culturally and racially mixed \"smelting pot\", but only in 1912 were his remarks first published. In his writing, Emerson explicitly welcomed the racial intermixing of whites and non-whites, a highly controversial view during his lifetime.\n\nA magazine article in 1876 used the metaphor explicitly:\n\nIn 1893, historian Frederick Jackson Turner also used the metaphor of immigrants melting into one American culture. In his essay \"The Significance of the Frontier in American History\", he referred to the \"composite nationality\" of the American people, arguing that the frontier had functioned as a \"crucible\" where \"the immigrants were Americanized, liberated and fused into a mixed race, English in neither nationality nor characteristics\".\n\nIn his 1905 travel narrative \"The American Scene\", Henry James discusses cultural intermixing in New York City as a \"fusion, as of elements in solution in a vast hot pot\".\n\nThe exact term \"melting pot\" came into general usage in the United States after it was used as a metaphor describing a fusion of nationalities, cultures and ethnicities in the 1908 play of the same name, first performed in Washington, D.C., where the immigrant protagonist declared: \n\nIn \"The Melting Pot\" (1908), Israel Zangwill combined a romantic denouement with an utopian celebration of complete cultural intermixing. The play was an adaptation of William Shakespeare's \"Romeo and Juliet\", set in New York City. The play's immigrant protagonist David Quixano, a Russian Jew, falls in love with Vera, a fellow Russian immigrant who is Christian. Vera is an idealistic settlement house worker and David is a composer struggling to create an \"American symphony\" to celebrate his adopted homeland. Together they manage to overcome the old world animosities that threaten to separate them. But then David discovers that Vera is the daughter of the Tsarist officer who directed the pogrom that forced him to flee Russia. Horrified, he breaks up with her, betraying his belief in the possibility of transcending religious and ethnic animosities. However, unlike Shakespeare's tragedy, there is a happy ending. At the end of the play the lovers are reconciled.\n\nReunited with Vera and watching the setting sun gilding the Statue of Liberty, David Quixano has a prophetic vision: \"It is the Fires of God round His Crucible. There she lies, the great Melting-Pot—Listen! Can't you hear the roaring and the bubbling? There gapes her mouth, the harbor where a thousand mammoth feeders come from the ends of the world to pour in their human freight\". David foresees how the American melting pot will make the nation's immigrants transcend their old animosities and differences and will fuse them into one people: \"Here shall they all unite to build the Republic of Man and the Kingdom of God. Ah, Vera, what is the glory of Rome and Jerusalem where all nations and races come to worship and look back, compared with the glory of America, where all\nraces and nations come to labour and look forward!\"\n\nZangwill thus combined the metaphor of the \"crucible\" or \"melting pot\" with a celebration of the United States as an ideal republic and a new promised land. The prophetic words of his Jewish protagonist against the backdrop of the Statue of Liberty allude to Emma Lazarus's famous poem \"The New Colossus\" (1883), which celebrated the statue as a symbol of American democracy and its identity as an immigrant nation.\n\nZangwill concludes his play by wishing, \"Peace, peace, to all ye unborn millions, fated to fill this giant continent—the God of our children give you Peace.\" Expressing his hope that through this forging process the \"unborn millions\" who would become America's future citizens would become a unified nation at peace with itself despite its ethnic and religious diversity.\n\nIn terms of immigrants to the United States, the \"melting pot\" process has been equated with Americanization, that is, cultural assimilation and acculturation. The \"melting pot\" metaphor implies both a melting of cultures and intermarriage of ethnicities, yet cultural assimilation or acculturation can also occur without intermarriage. Thus African-Americans are fully culturally integrated into American culture and institutions. Yet more than a century after the abolition of slavery, intermarriage between African-Americans and other ethnicities is much less common than between different white ethnicities, or between white and Asian ethnicities. Intermarriage between whites and non-whites, and especially African-Americans, was a taboo in the United States for a long time, and was illegal in many US states (see anti-miscegenation laws) until 1967.\n\nThe melting pot theory of ethnic relations, which sees American identity as centered upon the acculturation or assimilation and the intermarriage of white immigrant groups, has been analyzed by the emerging academic field of whiteness studies. This discipline examines the \"social construction of whiteness\" and highlights the changing ways in which whiteness has been normative to American national identity from the 17th to the 20th century.\n\nIn the late 19th and early 20th centuries, European immigration to the United States became increasingly diverse and increased substantially in numbers. Beginning in the 1890s, large numbers of Southern and Eastern European immigrant groups such as the Italians, Jews, and Poles arrived. Many returned to Europe but those who remained merged into the cultural melting pot, adopting American lifestyles. By contrast, Chinese arrivals met intense hostility and new laws in the 1880s tried to exclude them, but many arrived illegally. Hostility forced them into \"Chinatowns\" or ethnic enclaves in the larger cities, where they lived a culture apart and seldom assimilated. The acquisition of Hawaii in 1898, with full citizenship for the residents of all races, greatly increased the Asian American population.\n\nIn the early 20th century, the meaning of the recently popularized concept of the melting pot was subject to ongoing debate which centered on the issue of immigration. The debate surrounding the concept of the melting pot centered on how immigration impacted American society and on how immigrants should be approached. The melting pot was equated with either the acculturation or the total assimilation of European immigrants, and the debate centered on the differences between these two ways of approaching immigration: \"Was the idea to melt down the immigrants and then pour the resulting, formless liquid into the preexisting cultural and social molds modeled on Anglo-Protestants like Henry Ford and Woodrow Wilson, or was the idea instead that everyone, \"Mayflower\" descendants and Sicilians, Ashkenazi and Slovaks, would act chemically upon each other so that all would be changed, and a new compound would emerge?\"\n\nNativists wanted to severely restrict access to the melting pot. They felt that far too many \"undesirables,\" or in their view, culturally inferior immigrants from Southern and Eastern Europe had already arrived. The compromises that were reached in a series of immigration laws in the 1920s established the principle that the number of new arrivals should be small, and, apart from family reunification, the inflow of new immigrants should match the ethnic profile of the nation as it existed at that time. National quotas were established that discouraged immigration from Poland, Italy and Russia, and encouraged immigration from Britain, Ireland and Germany.\n\nIntermarriage between Euro-American men and Native American women has been common since colonial days. In the 21st century some 7.5 million Americans claim Native American ancestry. In the 1920s the nation welcomed celebrities of Native American background, especially Will Rogers and Jim Thorpe, as well as Vice President Charles Curtis, who had been brought up on a reservation and identified with his Indian heritage.\n\nThe mixing of whites and blacks, resulting in multiracial children, for which the term \"miscegenation\" was coined in 1863, was a taboo, and most whites opposed marriages between whites and blacks. In many states, marriage between whites and non-whites was even prohibited by state law through anti-miscegenation laws. As a result, two kinds of \"mixture talk\" developed:\n\nBy the early 21st century, many white Americans celebrated the impact of African-American culture, especially in sports and music. Marriages between white Americans and African-Americans were still problematic in both communities. Israel Zangwill saw this coming in the early 20th century: \"However scrupulously and justifiably America avoids intermarriage with the negro, the comic spirit cannot fail to note spiritual miscegenation which, while clothing, commercializing, and Christianizing the ex-African, has given 'rag-time' and the sex-dances that go with it, first to white America and then to the whole white world.\"\n\nWhite Americans long regarded some elements of African-American culture quintessentially \"American\", while at the same time treating African Americans as second-class citizens. White appropriation, stereotyping and mimicking of black culture played an important role in the construction of an urban popular culture in which European immigrants could express themselves as Americans, through such traditions as blackface, minstrel shows and later in jazz and in early Hollywood cinema, notably in \"The Jazz Singer\" (1927).\n\nAnalyzing the \"racial masquerade\" that was involved in creation of a white \"melting pot\" culture through the stereotyping and imitation of black and other non-white cultures in the early 20th century, historian Michael Rogin has commented: \"Repudiating 1920s nativism, these films [Rogin discusses \"The Jazz Singer\", \"Old San Francisco\" (1927), \"Whoopee!\" (1930), \"King of Jazz\" (1930) celebrate the melting pot. Unlike other racially stigmatized groups, white immigrants can put on and take off their mask of difference. But the freedom promised immigrants to make themselves over points to the vacancy, the violence, the deception, and the melancholy at the core of American self-fashioning\".\n\nSince World War II, the idea of the melting pot has become more racially inclusive in the United States, gradually extending also to acceptance of marriage between whites and non-whites.\n\nThis trend towards greater acceptance of ethnic and racial minorities was evident in popular culture in the combat films of World War II, starting with \"Bataan\" (1943). This film celebrated solidarity and cooperation between Americans of all races and ethnicities through the depiction of a multiracial American unit. At the time blacks and Japanese in the armed forces were still segregated, while Chinese and Indians were in integrated units.\n\nHistorian Richard Slotkin sees \"Bataan\" and the combat genre that sprang from it as the source of the \"melting pot platoon\", a cinematic and cultural convention symbolizing in the 1940s \"an American community that did not yet exist\", and thus presenting an implicit protest against racial segregation. However, Slotkin points out that ethnic and racial harmony within this platoon is predicated upon racist hatred for the Japanese enemy: \"the emotion which enables the platoon to transcend racial prejudice is itself a virulent expression of racial hatred...The final heat which blends the ingredients of the melting pot is rage against an enemy which is fully dehumanized as a race of 'dirty monkeys.'\" He sees this racist rage as an expression of \"the unresolved tension between racialism and civic egalitarianism in American life\".\n\nIn Hawaii, as Rohrer (2008) argues, there are two dominant discourses of racial politics, both focused on \"haole\" (white people or whiteness in Hawaii) in the islands. The first is the discourse of racial harmony representing Hawaii as an idyllic racial paradise with no conflict or inequality. There is also a competing discourse of discrimination against nonlocals, which contends that \"haoles\" and nonlocal people of color are disrespected and treated unfairly in Hawaii. As negative referents for each other, these discourses work to reinforce one another and are historically linked. Rohrer proposes that the question of racial politics be reframed toward consideration of the processes of racialization themselves—toward a new way of thinking about racial politics in Hawaii that breaks free of the not racist/racist dyad.\n\nThroughout the history of the modern Olympic Games, the theme of the United States as a melting pot has been employed to explain American athletic success, becoming an important aspect of national self-image. The diversity of American athletes in the Olympic Games in the early 20th century was an important avenue for the country to redefine a national culture amid a massive influx of immigrants, as well as American Indians (represented by Jim Thorpe in 1912) and blacks (represented by Jesse Owens in 1936). In the 1968 Summer Olympics in Mexico City, two black American athletes with gold and bronze medals saluted the U.S. national anthem with a \"Black Power\" salute that symbolized rejection of assimilation.\n\nThe international aspect of the games allowed the United States to define its pluralistic self-image against the monolithic traditions of other nations. American athletes served as cultural ambassadors of American exceptionalism, promoting the melting pot ideology and the image of America as a progressive nation based on middle-class culture. Journalists and other American analysts of the Olympics framed their comments with patriotic nationalism, stressing that the success of U.S. athletes, especially in the high-profile track-and-field events, stemmed not from simple athletic prowess but from the superiority of the civilization that spawned them.\n\nFollowing the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the 2002 Winter Games in Salt Lake City strongly revived the melting pot image, returning to a bedrock form of American nationalism and patriotism. The reemergence of Olympic melting pot discourse was driven especially by the unprecedented success of African Americans, Mexican Americans, Asian Americans, and Native Americans in events traditionally associated with Europeans and white North Americans such as speed skating and the bobsled. The 2002 Winter Olympics was also a showcase of American religious freedom and cultural tolerance of the history of Utah's large majority population of Mormons, as well representation of Muslim Americans and other religious groups in the U.S. Olympic team.\n\nThe concept of multiculturalism was preceded by the concept of cultural pluralism, which was first developed in the 1910s and 1920s, and became widely popular during the 1940s. The concept of cultural pluralism first emerged in the 1910s and 1920s among intellectual circles out of the debates in the United States over how to approach issues of immigration and national identity.\n\nThe First World War heightened tensions between Anglo-American and German-Americans. The war and the Russian Revolution, which caused a \"Red Scare\" in the US, which also fanned feelings of xenophobia. During and immediately after the First World War, the concept of the melting pot was equated by Nativists with complete cultural assimilation towards an Anglo-American norm (\"Anglo-conformity\") on the part of immigrants, and immigrants who opposed such assimilation were accused of disloyalty to the United States.\n\nThe newly popularized concept of the melting pot was frequently equated with \"Americanization\", meaning cultural assimilation, by many \"old stock\" Americans. In Henry Ford's Ford English School (established in 1914), the graduation ceremony for immigrant employees involved symbolically stepping off an immigrant ship and passing through \"the melting pot\", entering at one end in costumes designating their nationality and emerging at the other end in identical suits and waving American flags.\n\nOpposition to the absorption of million of immigrants from Southern and Eastern Europe was especially strong among such popular writers Madison Grant and Lothrop Stoddard, who believed in the \"racial\" superiority of Americans of Northern European descent as member of the \"Nordic race\", and therefore demanded immigration restrictions to stop a \"degeneration\" of America's white racial \"stock\". They believed that complete cultural assimilation of the immigrants from Southern and Eastern Europe was not a solution to the problem of immigration because intermarriage with these immigrants would endanger the racial purity of Anglo-America. The controversy over immigration faded away after immigration restrictions were put in place with the enactment of the Johnson-Reed Act in 1924.\n\nIn response to the pressure exerted on immigrants to culturally assimilate and also as a reaction against the denigration of the culture of non-Anglo white immigrants by Nativists, intellectuals on the left such as Horace Kallen, in \"Democracy Versus the Melting-Pot\" (1915), and Randolph Bourne, in \"Trans-National America\" (1916), laid the foundations for the concept of cultural pluralism. This term was coined by Kallen. Randolph Bourne, who objected to Kallen's emphasis on the inherent value of ethnic and cultural difference, envisioned a \"trans-national\" and cosmopolitan America. The concept of cultural pluralism was popularized in the 1940s by John Dewey.\n\nIn the United States, where the term melting pot is still commonly used, the ideas of cultural pluralism and multiculturalism have, in some circles, taken precedence over the idea of assimilation. Alternate models where immigrants retain their native cultures such as the \"salad bowl\" or the \"symphony\" are more often used by sociologists to describe how cultures and ethnicities mix in the United States. Nonetheless, the term assimilation is still used to describe the ways in which immigrants and their descendants adapt, such as by increasingly using the national language of the host society as their first language.\n\nSince the 1960s, much research in Sociology and History has disregarded the melting pot theory for describing interethnic relations in the United States and other counties. The theory of multiculturalism offers alternative analogies for ethnic interaction including \"salad bowl theory\", or, as it is known in Canada, the \"cultural mosaic\". In the 1990s, political correctness in the United States emphasized that each ethnic and national group has the right to maintain and preserve its cultural distinction and integrity, and that one does not need to assimilate or abandon one's heritage in order to blend in or merge into the majority Anglo-American society.\n\nNevertheless, some prominent scholars, such as Samuel P. Huntington in \"Who Are We? The Challenges to America's National Identity\", have expressed the view that the most accurate explanation for modern-day United States culture and inter-ethnic relations can be found somewhere in a fusion of some of the concepts and ideas contained in the melting pot, assimilation, and Anglo-conformity models. Under this theory, it is asserted that the United States has one of the most homogeneous cultures of any nation in the world. This line of thought holds that this American national culture derived most of its traits and characteristics from early colonial settlers from Britain, Ireland, and Germany. When more recent immigrants from Southern and Eastern Europe brought their various cultures to America at the beginning of the 20th century, they changed the American cultural landscape just very slightly, and, for the most part, assimilated into America's pre-existing culture which had its origins in Northwestern Europe.\n\nThe decision of whether to support a melting-pot or multicultural approach has developed into an issue of much debate within some countries. For example, the French and British governments and populace are currently debating whether Islamic cultural practices and dress conflict with their attempts to form culturally unified countries.\n\nMexico has seen a variety of cultural influences over the years, and in its history has adopted a mixed assimilationist/multiculturalist policy. Mexico, beginning with the conquest of the Aztecs, had entered a new global empire based on trade and immigration. In the 16th and 17th centuries, waves of Spanish, and to a lesser extent, African and Filipino culture became embedded into the fabric of Mexican culture. It is important to note, however, that from a Mexican standpoint, the immigrants and their culture were no longer considered foreign, but Mexican in their entirety. The food, art, and even heritage were assimilated into a Mexican identity. Upon the independence of Mexico, Mexico began receiving immigrants from Central Europe, Eastern Europe and the Middle East, again, bringing many cultural influences but being quickly labeled as Mexican, unlike in the United States, where other culture is considered foreign. This assimilation is very evident, even in Mexican society today: for example, banda, a style of music originating in northern Mexico, is simply a Mexican take on Central European music brought by immigrants in the 18th century. Mexico's thriving beer industry was also the result of German brewers finding refuge in Mexico. Many famous Mexicans are actually of Arab descent; Salma Hayek and Carlos Slim. The coastal states of Guerrero and Veracruz are inhabited by citizens of African descent. Mexico's national policy is based on the concept of mestizaje, a word meaning \"to mix\". The immigrants are socially under pressure to adopt a Mexican nationality and become part of the broader culture (speaking Spanish, respect the Catholic heritage, help the society), while contributing useful cultural traits foreign to Mexican society.\n\nAs with other areas of new settlement such as Canada, Australia, the United States, Brazil, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, the United Arab Emirates, and Singapore, Argentina is considered a country of immigrants. When it is considered that Argentina was second only to the United States (27 million of immigrants) in the number of immigrants received, even ahead of such other areas of newer settlement like Australia, Brazil, Canada, New Zealand, and United Kingdom; and that the country was scarcely populated following its independence, the impact of the immigration to Argentina becomes evident.\n\nMost Argentines are descended from colonial-era settlers and of the 19th- and 20th-century immigrants from Europe. An estimated 8% of the population is Mestizo, and a further 4% of Argentines are of Arab (in Argentina the Arab ethnicity is considered among the White people, just like in the US Census) or Asian heritage. In the last national census, based on self-identification, 600,000 Argentines (2% of the population) declared to be Amerindians Although various genetic tests show that in average, Argentines have 20 to 30% indigenous ancestry, which leads many who are culturally European, to identify as white, even though they are genetically mestizo. Most of the 6 million European immigrants arriving between 1850 and 1950, regardless of origin, settled in several regions of the country. Due to this large-scale European immigration, Argentina's population more than doubled, although half ended up returning to Europe or settling in the United States.\n\nThe majority of these European immigrants came from Spain and Italy mostly, but to a lesser extent, Germany, France, and Russia. Small communities also descend from Switzerland, Wales, Scotland, Poland, Yugoslavia, Czechoslovakia, the Austro-Hungarian Empire, the Ottoman Empire, Ukraine, Denmark, Sweden, Finland, Norway, Belgium, Luxemburg, the Netherlands, Portugal, Romania, Bulgaria, Armenia, Greece, Lithuania, Estonia, Latvia and several other regions.\n\nItalian population in Argentina arrived mainly from the northern Italian regions varying between Piedmont, Veneto and Lombardy, later from Campania and Calabria;\nMany Argentines have the gentilic of an Italian city, place, street or occupation of the immigrant as last name, many of them were not necessarily born Italians, but once they did the roles of immigration from Italy the name usually changed. Spanish immigrants were mainly Galicians and Basques.\n\nMillions of immigrants also came from France (notably Béarn and the Northern Basque Country), Germany, Switzerland, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Ireland, Greece, Portugal, Finland, Russia and the United Kingdom. The Welsh settlement in Patagonia, known as \"Y Wladfa\", began in 1865; mainly along the coast of Chubut Province. In addition to the main colony in Chubut, a smaller colony was set up in Santa Fe and another group settled at Coronel Suárez, southern Buenos Aires Province. Of the 50,000 Patagonians of Welsh descent, about 5,000 are Welsh speakers. The community is centered on the cities of Gaiman, Trelew and Trevelin.\n\nBrazil has long been a melting pot for a wide range of cultures. From colonial times Portuguese Brazilians have favoured assimilation and tolerance for other peoples, and intermarriage was more acceptable in Brazil than in most other European colonies. However, Brazilian society has never been completely free of ethnic strife and exploitation, and some groups have chosen to remain separate from mainstream social life. Brazilians of mainly European descent (Portuguese, Italian, French, German, Austrian, Spanish, Polish, Ukrainian, Russian, Lithuanian, Hungarian, etc.) account for more than half the population, although people of mixed ethnic backgrounds form an increasingly larger segment; roughly two-fifths of the total are mulattoes (\"mulattos\"; people of mixed African and European ancestry) and mestizos (\"mestiços\", or \"caboclos\"; people of mixed European and Indian ancestry). Portuguese are the main European ethnic group in Brazil, and most Brazilians can trace their ancestry to an ethnic Portuguese or a mixed-race Portuguese. Among European descendants, Brazil has the largest Italian diaspora, the second largest German diaspora, as well as other European groups. The country is also home to the largest Japanese diaspora outside Japan, the largest Arab community outside the Arab World and one of the top 10 Jewish populations.\n\nColombia is a melting pot of races and ethnicities. The population is descended from three racial groups—Native Americans, blacks, and whites—that have mingled throughout the nearly 500 years of the country's history. No official figures were available, since the Colombian government dropped any references to race in the census after 1918, but according to rough estimates in the late 1980s, mestizos (white and Native American mix) constituted approximately 50% of the population, whites (predominantly Spanish origin, Italian, German, French, etc.) made a 25%, mulattoes (black-white mix) 14% and zambos (black and Native American mix) 4%, blacks (pure or predominantly of African origin) 3% percent, and Native Americans 1%.\n\nCosta Rican people is a very syncretic melting pot, because this country has been constituted in percentage since the 16th century by immigrants from all the European countries—mostly Spaniards and Italians with a lot of Germans, British, Swedes, Swiss, French and Croats—also as black people from Africa and Jamaica, Americans, Chinese, Lebanese and Latin Americans who have mestized over time with the large native populations creating the national average modern ethnic composition.\n\nNowadays a great part of the Costa Rican habitants are considered white (84%), with minoritaries groups of mulato (7%), indigenous (2%), Chinese (2%) and black (1%). Also, over 9% of the total population is foreign-born (specially from Nicaragua).\n\nSouth Asia has a long history of inter-ethnic marriage dating back to ancient history. Various groups of people have been intermarrying for millennia in South Asia, including speakers of Dravidian, Indo-Aryan, Austroasiatic, and Tibeto-Burman languages. On account of such diverse influences, South Asia in a nut-shell appears to be a cradle of human civilization. Despite invasions in its recent history it has succeeded in organically assimilating incoming influences, blunting their wills for imperialistic hegemony and maintaining its strong roots and culture. These invasions however brought their own racial mixing between diverse populations and South Asia is considered an exemplary \"melting pot\" (and not a \"salad bowl\") by many geneticists for exactly this reason. However, South Asian society has never been completely free of ethnic strife and exploitation, and some groups have chosen to remain separate from mainstream social life. The divisiveness of the caste system in India has permeated to every facet of the society. Ethnic conflicts in Pakistan between Baloch, Pashtun, Punjabis, and Sindhis, are other impediments to the melting pot thesis.\n\nAfghanistan seems to be in the process of becoming a melting pot, as customs specific to particular ethnic groups are becoming summarily perceived as national traits of Afghanistan. The term \"Afghan\" was originally used to refer to the Pashtuns in the Middle Ages, and the intention behind the creation of the Afghan state was originally to be a Pashtun state, but later this policy changed, leading to the inclusion of non-Pashtuns in the state as Afghans. Today in Afghanistan, the development of a cultural melting pot is occurring, where different Afghanistan ethnic groups are mixing together to build a new Afghan ethnicity composed of preceding ethnicities in Afghanistan today, ultimately replacing the old Pashtun identity which stood for Afghan. With the churning growth of Persian, many ethnic groups, including de-tribalized Pashtuns, are adopting Dari Persian as their new native tongue. Many ethnic groups in Afghanistan tolerate each other, while the Hazara–Pashtun conflict was notable, and often claimed as a Shia-Sunni conflict instead of an ethnic conflict, as this conflict was carried out by the Taliban. The Taliban, which are mostly ethnically Pashtun, have spurred Anti-Pashtunism across non-Pashtun Afghans. Pashtun–Tajik rivalries have lingered about, but are much more mild. Reasons for this antipathy are criticism of Tajiks (for either their non-tribal culture or cultural rivalry in Afghanistan) by Pashtuns and criticism of Taliban (mostly composed of Pashtuns) by Tajiks. There have been rivalries between Pashtuns and Uzbeks as well, which is likely very similar to the Kyrgyzstan Crisis, which Pashtuns would likely take place as Kyrgyz (for having a similar nomadic culture), rivaling with Tajiks and Uzbeks (of sedentary culture), despite all being Sunni Muslims.\n\nIn the early years of the state of Israel, the term \"melting pot\" (כור היתוך), also known as \"Ingathering of the Exiles\" (קיבוץ גלויות), was not a description of a process, but an official governmental doctrine of assimilating the Jewish immigrants that originally came from varying cultures (see Jewish ethnic divisions). This was performed on several levels, such as educating the younger generation (with the parents not having the final say) and (to mention an anecdotal one) encouraging and sometimes forcing the new citizens to adopt a Hebrew name.\n\nActivists such as the Iraq-born Ella Shohat that an elite which developed in the early 20th century, out of the earlier-arrived Zionist Pioneers of the Second and Third Aliyas (immigration waves)—and who gained a dominant position in the Yishuv (pre-state community) since the 1930s—had formulated a new Hebrew culture, based on the values of Socialist Zionism, and imposed it on all later arrivals, at the cost of suppressing and erasing these later immigrants' original culture.\n\nProponents of the Melting Pot policy asserted that it applied to all newcomers to Israel equally; specifically, that Eastern European Jews were pressured to discard their Yiddish-based culture as ruthlessly as Mizrahi Jews were pressured to give up the culture which they developed during centuries of life in Arab and Muslim countries. Critics respond, however, that a cultural change effected by a struggle within the Ashkenazi-East European community, with younger people voluntarily discarding their ancestral culture and formulating a new one, is not parallel to the subsequent exporting and imposing of this new culture on others, who had no part in formulating it. Also, it was asserted that extirpating the Yiddish culture had been in itself an act of oppression only compounding what was done to the Mizrahi immigrants.\n\nToday the reaction to this doctrine is ambivalent; some say that it was a necessary measure in the founding years, while others claim that it amounted to cultural oppression. Others argue that the melting pot policy did not achieve its declared target: for example, the persons born in Israel are more similar from an economic point of view to their parents than to the rest of the population. The policy is generally not practised today though as there is less need for that—the mass immigration waves at Israel's founding have declined. Nevertheless, one fifth of current Israel's Jewish population have immigrated from former Soviet Union in the last two decades. The Jewish population includes other minorities such as Haredi Jews; Furthermore, 20% of Israel's population is Arab. These factors as well as others contribute to the rise of pluralism as a common principle in the last years.\n\nAlready the Kievan Rus was a multi ethnic state where different ethnicities merged, including Slavs, Finns, Turks and Balts.\nLater the expansion of the Grand Duchy of Moscow and later of the Russian Empire throughout 15th to 20th centuries created a unique melting pot. Though the majority of Russians had Slavic-speaking ancestry, different ethnicities were assimilated into the Russian melting pot through the period of expansion. Assimilation was a way for ethnic minorities to advance their standing within the Russian society and state—as individuals or groups. It required adoption of Russian as a day-to-day language and Orthodox Christianity as religion of choice. The Roman Catholics (as in Poland and Lithuania) generally resisted assimilation. Throughout the centuries of eastward expansion of Russia Finno-Ugric and Turkic peoples were assimilated and included into the emerging Russian nation. This includes Mordvin, Udmurt, Mari, Tatar, Chuvash, Bashkir, and others. Surnames of many of Russia's nobility (including Suvorov, Kutuzov, Yusupov, etc.) suggest their Turkic origin. Groups of later, 18th- and 19th-century migrants to Russia, from Europe (Germans, French, Italians, Poles, Serbs, Bulgarians, Greeks, Jews, etc.) or the Caucasus (Georgians, Armenians, Ossetians, Chechens, Azeris and Turks among them) also assimilated within several generations after settling among Russians in the expanding Russian Empire.\n\nThe Soviet people () was an ideological epithet for the population of the Soviet Union. The Soviet government promoted the doctrine of assimilating all peoples living in USSR into one \"Soviet people\", accordingly to Marxist principle of fraternity of peoples.\n\nThe effort lasted for the entire history of the Soviet Union, but did not succeed, as evidenced by developments in most national cultures in the territory after the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991.\n\nThe term has been used to describe a number of countries in Southeast Asia. Given the region's location and importance to trade routes between China and the Western world, certain countries in the region have become ethnically diverse. In Vietnam, a relevant phenomenon is \"tam giáo đồng nguyên\", meaning the co-existence and co-influence of three major religious teaching schools (Confucianism, Buddhism and Taoism), which shows a process defined as \"cultural addivity\".\n\nIn the pre-Spanish era the Philippines was the trading nexus of various cultures and eventually became the melting pot of different nations. This primarily consisted of the Chinese, Indian and Arab traders. This is also includes neighboring southeast Asian cultures. The cultures and races mixed with indigenous tribes, mainly of Austronesian descent (i.e. the Indonesians, Malays and Brunei) and the Negritos. The result was a mix of cultures and ideals. This melting pot of culture continued with the arrival of Europeans, mixing their western culture with the nation. The Spanish Empire colonized the Philippines for more than three centuries, and during the early 20th century, was conquered and annexed by the United States and occupied by the Empire of Japan during World War II. In modern times, the Philippines has been the place of many retired Americans, Japanese expatriates and Korean students. And continues to uphold its status as a melting pot state today.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "742889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=742889", "title": "Method &amp; Red", "text": "Method &amp; Red\n\nMethod & Red, sometimes written Meth and Red, is an American television sitcom that ran on Fox from June 16 to August 25, 2004. It starred hip hop recording artists Method Man & Redman, portraying fictionalized versions of themselves who move to a predominantly white upper-class suburb in New Jersey.\n\nFox cancelled the show with 4 of the 13 episodes remaining unaired after heated meetings with Method Man & Redman, who were not pleased with the show. The duo publicly criticized Fox several times after this.\n\nMethod Man was disappointed about the series for having a laugh track and Fox doing a bad job on editing. He had wanted it to be in the vein of \"Arrested Development,\" of which he is a fan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4118312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4118312", "title": "Mission: Impossible – Operation Surma", "text": "Mission: Impossible – Operation Surma\n\nMission: Impossible – Operation Surma is an action-adventure video game developed by Paradigm Entertainment and published by Atari, Inc. for Game Boy Advance, Xbox, PlayStation 2, and GameCube.\n\nIMF operative Ethan Hunt is on a scuba diving mission to explore a shipwreck off the coast of the Black Sea. Once he finishes observing, he encounters two other IMF agents, one of them who shoots a harpoon at the ship to give Ethan his next mission. As explained, Ethan will have to escort Mikail Marcou, a former advisor of Yugaria's current dictator, Simon Algo, and acquire a mini disk from Algo that contains vital information on Algo's operations.\n\nEthan arrives at the Yugarian Ministry of Information, and despite a few misteps at the expense of Jasmine Curry, a new member of the IMF team, the mission runs smoothly and Ethan makes contact with Marcou. Marcou, however, tells him when he gets to England on safe grounds, the disk will belong to IMF. The plan goes south, as Marcou is shot and killed by Vasyl Berkut, the head of the Yugarian Secret Service. Ethan takes possession of the disk and pursues Berkut. Berkut escapes, but Luther Stickell and Billy Baird come to extract Ethan at the last minute and evades capture.\n\nMaking his way to Los Muertos Laboratories, Ethan disguises himself as a security guard to gain access to the lower levels of the facility, though it was short lived. He enters the computer core, but was forced to hide when Jong Ho Li, a contractor and ally to Algo, and Sofia Ivanescu, a software engineer, comes to download info onto the core. Once they left, Ethan hacks the core, and Luther reveals Los Muertos' plan to use three strains of neurodioxin. He requests Ethan and new IMF agent George Spelvin (disguising himself as a scientist) to abort the mission, but Ethan refuses and goes to destroy the biological weapons, in which he is successful in doing so. But this results in an alarm going off, and in return, Jong Ho accuses Sofia of being a spy. He places bombs throughout the facility to cover his tracks when it is destroyed, but Ethan disarms them. Outside, Sofia sabotages a helicopter, leaving Jong Ho and his men to Ethan's disposal. Engaging in a shootout, Ethan kills Jong Ho and follows Sofia to Yugaria.\n\nSneaking back in Yugaria's Ministry of Information, Ethan learns of ICEWORM, a deadly computer virus capable of breaking through any type of security system. Unable to get ICEWORM's codes through the computer, Berkut orders his men to apprehend Sofia to obtain the codes, inadvertently revealing to an overhearing Ethan that Sofia's father, Nicholas Ivanescu (long thought dead) is still alive, but in league with Algo. Using the electronic wasp and a sniper pistol, Ethan protects Sofia from Berkut's men, but as he tries to explains himself to her, she mistakens him for being Berkut's loyal and runs off. However, she almost fell to her death, and Ethan saves her. Ethan vows to not let anything happen to Sofia, and she accepts his offer.\n\nEthan, Sofia, Jasmine, and Spelvin travel to Sansara (a notorious prison off the North African coast) to destroy the remains of the biological weapons that were relocated from Los Muertos. Jasmine and Spelvin meet with Berkut and enters the \"Rat Trap\", with Ethan following the three. Meanwhile, Sofia talks with Algo about the use of ICEWORM, with Sofia tells the reason of using the virus as a means to gain revenge for her father's apparent death at the hands of Yugaria's previous corrupt government. Ethan finds Algo's chief bioscientist in solitary confinement, who is revealed to be Nicholas. He agrees to help Ethan destroy the neurodioxin, and the latter takes Sofia to the data center so she can help him advance to the lab. Knocking out Berkut with the wasp, Ethan impersonates him and disables the neurodioxin. Meeting with Nicholas, Ethan witnesses Algo kill Spelvin, injure Jasmine, and take Sofia hostage through his microcamera. He plants explosives in the lab, and tells Nicholas to escape. Ethan covers Jasmine as she makes her escape. Unable to find Sofia nor Algo, Ethan escapes thanks to Billy coming back for Ethan.\n\nLearning that Algo's using a plane as form of headquarters, Ethan skydives and activates a jetpack to make his way to the plane. On board, Algo betrays and kills Berkut by using an experimental rocket launcher. Moments later, Ethan boards the plane and plants explosives on each wing of the plane. Ethan finds Sofia in the cabin, but Algo surprises him. As he prepares to kill her, Sofia kicks him out of the plane, but not before he grabs her and she falls. Ethan pursues the two, grabbing a parachute from one of Algo's men in the process. He rescues Sofia, and sees that Algo has landed in the SURMA Building, a company he runs as a front for his terrorist activities.\n\nEthan and Sofia land on the SURMA Building, where Algo meets them. As Sofia runs to find a safe place, Ethan hunts down Algo throughout the rooftop. The two meet for a final confrontation, where Algo uses an experimental invisibility device to his advantage. Despite this, Ethan disrupts the technology and Algo is subsequently killed.\n\nWeeks after the incident, Ethan and Sofia are on a private cruise miles off the coast of Aruba. As Sofia says her dealings with technology are over, she and Ethan kiss, and the two go on a scuba diving adventure.\n\nTom Cruise, who plays Ethan Hunt in the , does not lend his likeness or voice to the character in the game. Veteran voice actor Steve Blum replaces him. Ving Rhames and John Polson reprise their roles of Luther Stickell and Billy Baird from \"\".\n\n\nThe game received \"mixed or average reviews\" on all platforms except the Game Boy Advance version, which received \"generally unfavorable reviews\", according to video game review aggregator Metacritic. In Japan, \"Famitsu\" gave the GameCube and PlayStation 2 versions a score of all four sevens for a total of 28 out of 40.\n\n"}
{"id": "54746829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54746829", "title": "NEWPALMYRA", "text": "NEWPALMYRA\n\nIn 2012, Khartabil was arrested, and the original project and open source files were lost. Barry Threw took over as director of the project, renamed #NEWPALMYRA, and a community of developers, modelers, and archaeologists began collaborating to model, restore, and later recreate from scratch those historical structures captured on film and camera.\n\nIn 2015, ISIL captured Palmyra and began destroying some of its famous historical sites. In late 2015, the Institute for Digital Archaeology began contributing to the New Palmyra Project, sending archaeologists with cheap 3D cameras to capture any further structures that ISIL might decide to destroy.\n\n\nOne of the best known structures in Palmyra was the monumental Arch of Triumph (قوس النصر). Constructed during the reign of Emperor Septimius Severus (193 to 211), it was sometimes mistakenly referred to as Hadrian’s arch. It was restored in the 1930s, and then destroyed completely during the Syrian Civil War in 2015.\n\nPalmyra's main streets were not at right angles, and this arch was famously built at a 30-degree turn in the colonnade between the tetrapylon (التترابيل) and the Temple of Bel (معبد بل), with two richly carved façades angled away from one another.\n\n\nA square platform, each corner containing a group of four columns. This was erected during the renovations of Diocletian at the end of the 3rd century. Each column had a pedestal in its center that originally supported a statue. The original columns were brought from Egypt and carved out of pink granite. Only one was undamaged in 1963 when the whole was restored with concrete. Destroyed again by ISIL on January 20, 2017.\n\nThis ancient temple was dedicated to the Mesopotamian god Bel in 32 AD. Bel was worshipped at Palmyra along with the moon god Aglibol and the sun god Yarhibol. The ruins of the temple were among the best preserved at Palmyra. they were destroyed by ISIL in August, 2015.\n\nThe Roman Theatre at Palmyra (المسرح الروماني بتدمر) dates to the time of Severus. Its remains were restored in the 20th century, and it served for a time as a venue for the annual Palmyra festival. It was destroyed by ISIL in May 2015.\n\nThe Temple of Baal Shamin dates to the 2nd century BC, and dedicated to the Canaanite sky deity. Its altar was built in 115 AD, and the temple was rebuilt in 131 AD. In the 5th century AD, it was converted to a church. In 2015 it was destroyed by ISIL.\n\n\nThis was the first statue modeled by #rsssd (Re-Sculpting Syrian Statues Digitally). In 2015 it was destroyed by ISIL.\n\nA 12-ton lifesize replica of part of the Arch of Triumph was carved into stone, from these models, and installed in London's Trafalgar Square in 2016.\n\nA number of small artefacts were reconstructed and displayed at the 2016 Venice Architecture Biennale.\n\nA 10-foot model of part of the Tetrapylon, printed in a single piece, was unveiled at the April 2017 Creative Commons Summit.\n\nThe project began to hold public events, partner with design groups and 3D printing shops, and receive press coverage starting in 2015.\n\n\"Reviving Palmyra\", a book on the history, destruction, and reconstruction of Palmyra, was published in 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "39509933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39509933", "title": "National Arts Council of Tanzania", "text": "National Arts Council of Tanzania\n\nThe National Arts Council of Tanzania (NACT) is an official parastatal organization established under the National Arts Council Act No. 23 of 1984. It is a government agency for the revival, promotion and development of the arts in Tanzania. \n\n"}
{"id": "3002191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3002191", "title": "Network of practice", "text": "Network of practice\n\nNetwork of practice (often abbreviated as NoP) is a concept originated by John Seely Brown and Paul Duguid. This concept, related to the work on communities of practice by Jean Lave and Etienne Wenger, refers to the overall set of various types of informal, emergent social networks that facilitate information exchange between individuals with practice-related goals. In other words, networks of practice range from communities of practice where learning occurs to electronic networks of practice (often referred to as virtual or electronic communities).\n\nTo further define the concept, first the term network implies a set of individuals who are connected through social relationships, whether they be strong or weak. Terms such as community tend to denote a stronger form of relationship, but networks refer to all networks of social relationships, be they weak or strong. Second, the term practice represents the substrate that connects individuals in their networks. The principal ideas are that practice implies the actions of individuals and groups when conducting their work, e.g., the practice of software engineers, journalists, educators, etc., and that practice involves interaction among individuals.\n\nWhat distinguishes a network of practice from other networks is that the primary reason for the emergence of relationships within a network of practice is that individuals interact through information exchange in order to perform their work, asking for and sharing knowledge with each other. A network of practice can be distinguished from other networks that emerge due to other factors, such as interests in common hobbies or discussing sports while taking the same bus to work, etc. Finally, practice need not necessarily be restricted to include those within one occupation or functional discipline. Rather it may include individuals from a variety of occupations; thus, the term, practice, is more appropriate than others such as occupation.\n\nAs indicated above, networks of practice incorporate a range of informal, emergent networks, from communities of practice to electronic networks of practice. In line with Lave & Wenger's original work (1991), Brown & Duguid propose that communities of practice are a localized and specialized subset of networks of practice, typically consisting of strong ties linking individuals engaged in a shared practice who typically interact in face-to-face situations. At the opposite end of the spectrum are electronic networks of practice, which are often referred to as virtual or electronic communities and consisting of weak ties. In electronic networks of practice, individuals may never get to know one another or meet face-to-face, and they generally coordinate through means such as blogs, electronic mailing lists, or bulletin boards.\n\nIn contrast to the use of formal controls to support knowledge exchange often used in formal work groups, such as contractual obligation, organizational hierarchies, monetary incentives, or mandated rules, networks of practice promote knowledge flows along lines of practice through informal social networks. Therefore, one way to distinguish between networks of practice and work groups created through formal organizational mandate is by the nature of the \"control mechanisms\".\n\nA second group of distinguishing properties refers to their \"composition\". Networks of practice and formal work groups vary in terms of their \"size\" since networks of practice may range from a few select individuals to very large, open electronic networks consisting of thousands of participants while groups are generally smaller. They also vary in terms of \"who can participate\". Work groups and virtual teams typically consist of members who are formally designated and assigned. In contrast, networks of practice consist of volunteers without formal restrictions placed on membership.\n\nFinally, networks of practice and formal work groups vary in terms of \"expectations about participation\". In formal work groups and virtual teams, participation is jointly determined and members are expected to achieve a specific work goal. Participation in communities of practice is jointly determined, such that individuals generally approach specific others for help. In electronic networks of practice, participation is individually determined; knowledge seekers have no control over who responds to their questions or the quality of the responses. In turn, knowledge contributors have no assurances that seekers will understand the answer provided or be willing to reciprocate the favor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19636090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19636090", "title": "Orme's law", "text": "Orme's law\n\nOrme's law is a rule of thumb to assist modelers when they design an electric power system for their radio-controlled model. Orme's law simply recommends the use of one NiMH rechargeable battery cell for every of wing area for sport planes. One cell for every of wing area for trainers. When using LiPo cells with higher voltage, the number of cells is cut in half, since a LiPo cell has double the voltage.\n\nThis rule is the work of Matthew Orme, who used to manage the sales of Aveox’s line of motors to the hobby market, and later developed a small high performance line of brushless motors at RazorMotors. Matt wanted to come up with a simpler way to recommend systems to the many people who ask him for advice powering their models. Brushless motors are very versatile and it can be hard for newcomers to decide which system they should use.\n\nThe main purpose was to demonstrate to the modeler that the electric motor was not the source of power like an internal combustion engine. With an IC engine, a particular sized engine will have a particular power output. Typically a model airplane manufacturer will recommend a 2-cycle glow plug motor by its size (typically .40-.60 cubic inch for the average sized plane) Since electric motors operate over a much wider range, there was no good way to recommend an electric motor for a plane. \n\nOrme's law makes it clear that the battery pack is the power source, and it determines the available power, not the electric motor. Once the power requirements of any particular airplane model have been determined, an electric motor can be chosen to match the power source. i.e., a 10 cell NiMh battery pack produces approximately 1 volt per cell under load. At 30 amps, that translates to .4 HP.\n\nMatt Orme’s rule makes system selection easy. Orme’s law assumes that the hobbyist will be using 1700 to 2000 mAH cells and will prop for 4 minutes of flight, or 30 amps. 2000 mAH = 2 amp hours or 120 amp minutes, hence the 4-minute flight time (120 amp-minutes /30 amps) at full throttle, with increasing flight times at reduced throttle settings.\n\nApplying the rule using a hobbyist's Citabria Pro electric conversion, which has of wing area, it needs exactly 16 cells according to Orme's law. Before Orme's law, much more work was needed to design the power for the system.\n"}
{"id": "17067709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17067709", "title": "Pittura infamante", "text": "Pittura infamante\n\nPittura infamante (; Italian for \"defaming portrait\"; plural \"pitture infamanti\") is a genre of defamatory painting and relief, common in Renaissance Italy in city-states in the north and center of the Italian Peninsula during the Trecento, Quattrocento, and Cinquecento. Popular subjects of \"pittura infamante\" include traitors, thieves, and those guilty of bankruptcy or public fraud, often in cases where no legal remedy was available. Commissioned by governments of city-states and displayed in public centers, \"pittura infamante\" were both a form of \"municipal justice\" (or \"forensic art\") and a medium for internal political struggles.\n<br>\nAccording to Samuel Edgerton, the genre began to decline precisely when it came to be regarded as a form of art rather than effigy; the power of the genre derived from a feudal-based code of honor, where shame was one of the most significant social punishments. As such, \"pittura infamante\" has its roots in the doctrines of \"fama\" and \"infamia\" in ancient Roman law.\n\n\"Pitture infamanti\" could appear in any public place, but some places were more frequently adorned with them; for example, the first floor exterior of the Bargello periodically contained numerous, life-size, \"pittura infamante\" frescoes. Florentine law required the \"Podestà]\" have such caricatures painted, and accompanied by verbal identification those held in contempt of court for financial offenses (bad debt, bankruptcy, fraud, forgery, etc.). \"Pitture infamanti\" were far more common in Republican Florence than in autocratic city states, whose rulers often deemed them to be sources of \"disrepute.\"\n\nCommon themes of \"pittura infamante\"—which were meant to be humiliating—include depicting the subject as wearing a mitre or hanging upside down, being in the presence of unclean animals such as pigs or donkeys or those deemed evil like snakes; \"pittura infamante\" would also contain captions listing the offenses of the subject. \"Pittura infamante\" could originate as more favorable depictions, only to be transformed after the subject had fallen out of favor.\n\n\"Pittura infamante\" always depicted men and never women, and generally depicted upper class men (who would have the most to lose from character assassination). The act of hanging itself was also significant, as affluent criminals would generally be afforded the privilege of beheading rather than hanging; hanging was also shameful in religious contexts (e.g. Judas). The topos of \"mundus inversus\" (\"world upside down\") is often associated with comedy and humiliation.\n\nFamous artists who painted \"pitture infamanti\" frescoes include Andrea del Castagno, Sandro Botticelli, and Andrea del Sarto. There are no surviving examples of \"pitture infamanti\" frescoes, but contemporary sources suggest that they were brightly colored. Detailed descriptions of \"pitture infamanti\" in primary sources are rare. A very few preparatory drawings, however, are extant, and The Hanged Man from Tarot cards is thought to resemble the archetypal \"pittura infamante\" theme, as Tarot decks were first produced in northern Italy in the 1440s.\n\nDocumentary evidence for \"pittura infamante\" outside Italy is rarer but existent. For example, records support the use of \"very unpleasant pictures\" painted on cloths during the Hundred Years' War and the reign of Louis XI in France, and—later—in England and north Germany.\n\n\"Pitture infamanti\" were the counterpoint of another contemporary form of secular, full-length portrait: \"uomini famosi\" (\"famous men\") or \"uomini illustri\" (\"illustrious men\"), which depicted figures from the Old Testament or Antiquity in a positive context, generally on the interior of private or civic buildings as moral exemplars.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7975163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7975163", "title": "Pituri", "text": "Pituri\n\nPituri is a mixture of leaves and wood ash traditionally chewed as a stimulant (or, after extended use, a depressant) by Aboriginal Australians widely across the continent. Leaves are gathered from any of several species of native tobacco (\"Nicotiana\") or from at least one distinct population of the species \"Duboisia hopwoodii\". Various species of \"Acacia\", \"Grevillea\" and \"Eucalyptus\" are burned to produce the ash. The term \"pituri\" may also refer to the plants from which the leaves are gathered or from which the ash is made. Some authors use the term to refer only to the plant \"Duboisia hopwoodii\" and its leaves and any chewing mixture containing its leaves.\n\nThe earliest record of Aboriginal chewing is found in Joseph Banks's 1770 journal:\nEdmund Kennedy, in his 1847 record of a journey beyond the Barcoo River, described a leaf, tasting strong and hot with the aroma and flavour of tobacco, being chewed by the Aboriginal people. Burke and Wills, on their ill-fated 1861 journey through inland Australia, were given food by local Aboriginal people and also \"stuff they call bedgery or pedgery\" to chew, which Wills found highly intoxicating even in small amounts. A report from Western Australia described the smoke from burning pituri leaves being used as an anaesthetic during surgical operations.\n\nOther nineteenth century reports said chewing pituri made old men wise, induced valour in warfare and allowed Aboriginal people to walk hundreds of kilometres without food or water; and a 1901 report claimed they \"will usually give anything they possess for it\". These reports generated significant curiosity within the local scientific community about the identity of the source plant and the identity of pituri's active chemical constituent.\n\nIn 1872, Joseph Bancroft, a Brisbane physician, received pituri leaves from south-west Queensland, and performed the first pharmacological investigation. He reported that extract of pituri is toxic to frogs, rats, cats and dogs, with a very small dose diluted in water and injected under the skin causing death after respiratory arrest in some cases.\n\nBancroft received more specimens in 1877, collected on an expedition to north-west Queensland by the explorer William Hodgkinson and identified by Ferdinand von Mueller as the broken leaves and twigs of the shrub \"Duboisia hopwoodii\". Hodgkinson was taken aback by Bancroft's assessment of pituri's toxicity, and said it was as benign as tobacco: Bancroft took Hodgkinson's samples to Britain and France where English researchers concluded the plant \"is more closely allied to tobacco\" and a Parisian chemist identified the active constituent as nicotine. This surprised Bancroft who had compared his extract from the first batch of pituri to nicotine and found the former to be much more toxic than the latter, a finding confirmed in 1880 in experiments performed by Liversidge in Sydney on some new \"Duboisia hopwoodii\" specimens, and supported by an 1882 report that described Aboriginal hunters in central Australia steeping the leaves of \"Duboisia hopwoodii\" in waterholes to stupefy prey that drink the water, and other reports describing cattle, sheep and camels which ate it dying. Yet, when Liversidge sent more samples from yet another batch to England for analysis in 1890 the researchers replied, \"there was no obvious difference between its action and that of nicotin[e].\" \n\nResearch into the identity of pituri's active constituent and its toxicity continued to yield contradictory results over the following decades.\n\nFerdinand von Mueller had identified Bancroft's 1877 batch of pituri as the crushed leaves and twigs of the shrub, \"Duboisia hopwoodii\", and writers subsequently referred to \"Duboisia hopwoodii\" as the raw material of pituri. For instance, in his report on the 1891 Elder expedition into northwest South Australia and the Gibson, Great Sandy and Great Victoria deserts of Western Australia, Richard Helms noted, \"Whilst these tribes have discovered the stimulating properties of \"Nicotiana suaveolens\" [a variety of native tobacco], they do not seem to know the more powerful narcotic of 'pituri', \"Duboisia hopwoodii\", which also occurs in many places throughout the same regions.\"\n\nThen, in 1933 Johnston and Cleland reported that the plant Europeans usually associate with pituri, \"Duboisia hopwoodii\", is not used for chewing across most of central Australia – a variety of native tobacco is; and two years later Hicks and Le Messurier found in a 300-mile radius around the south-west, north-west and north of Alice Springs people \"chewed, under the name of 'pituri' the leaves of at least two varieties of \"Nicotiana\" ... they wished to indicate that [\"Duboisia hopwoodii\"] was 'pituri', but only used when real pituri, i.e. \"Nicotiana\", was unobtainable.\"\n\nSo, it was now clear that pituri is not one substance and the term relates to the chewing of the leaves of various plants including \"Duboisia hopwoodii\" and more than one species of the native tobacco genus \"Nicotiana\".\n\nIt has long been known that the active constituent in Australia's various \"Nicotiana\" species is nicotine. Twentieth century chemical analysis found that both nicotine and nornicotine, a drug four times as toxic as nicotine, are usually present in \"Duboisia hopwoodii\", and the concentrations of these chemicals can vary widely. In one study, specimens of \"duboisia hopwoodii\" from Western Australia and western Queensland were found to contain mainly nicotine while the active constituent of South Australian and central Australian \"Duboisia hopwoodii\" was predominantly the more toxic nornicotine. It has been proposed that these variations may be due to differences in rainfall, harvest season and soil salinity and acidity.\n\nSo Bancroft's and Liversidge's experimental animals may have been injected with extracts of \"Duboisia hopwoodii\" high in the toxic nornicotine, while the specimens they sent to Europe for assessment (collected from different locations at different times) contained the more benign nicotine and little or no nornicotine. The reports of animal poisonings probably relate to the consumption of \"Duboisia hopwoodii\" high in nornicotine.\n\nIn central Australia, various species of wild \"Nicotiana\", not \"Duboisia hopwoodii\", are used. \"Nicotiana gossei\" and a subspecies of \"Nicotiana rosulata\" called \"Ingulba\" are preferred. In a small area west of the Mulligan River in south-western Queensland, a distinct population of \"Duboisia hopwoodii\", low in nornicotine, has been traditionally used and traded widely.\n\nFresh or dried leaves are broken up, mixed with ash and chewed to form a \"quid\" (a roll about the size and shape of a cigarette). The ash is thought to raise the pH of the mixture and facilitate the release of nicotine from the plant and its absorption through the mouth wall. Various types of wood are burned for ash including species of \"Acacia\", \"Grevillea\" and \"Eucalyptus\". \"Acacia salicina\", whose ash is very high in the alkali calcium sulphate, is one of the preferred species.\n\nThe quid is chewed from time to time and held behind the lower lip or cheek for long periods, where the thin skin, richly endowed with blood vessels, readily absorbs the nicotine. It may be shared with others, passing from person to person until returned to its owner. It may be carried pressed behind the ear, under a breast or beneath a head- or arm-band – possibly acting as a nicotine patch. A fresh quid may be prepared and held in the mouth while sleeping, so that for some chewers nicotine absorption is constant.\n\nAt first, nicotine acts as a stimulant, boosting the production or availability of chemicals such as acetylcholine, norepinephrine, dopamine, beta-endorphin and serotonin in the brain and other parts of the body. After sustained use, though, the body's ability to maintain heightened levels of these chemicals is temporarily exhausted and nicotine begins to act as a depressant and in high doses may induce stupor or trance.\n\nIn traditional Aboriginal Australia there was an extensive network of trade routes across the continent and pituri was bartered for such goods as boomerangs, spears, shields and ochre.\n\n\"Pituri\" is one of several names used to refer to native plant matter held in the mouth for the extraction of nicotine. In central Australian dialects the consonants p and b are interchangeable, as are t and d, and early European writers employed a wide variety of spellings. Joseph Bancroft, Australia's founding pharmacologist and the first to test its pharmacological properties, seems to have been the first to use the spelling \"pituri\".\n\nThe term is used by Aboriginal Australians to refer not only to the leaf or the mixture of ash and leaf that is chewed but also to the shrubs and trees that are the sources of the ash and leaf.\n\n"}
{"id": "13688961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13688961", "title": "Revivalist artist", "text": "Revivalist artist\n\nA revivalist artist or revivalist band is a musical group, singer, or musician dedicated to reviving interest in a musical genre from an earlier era.\n\nSuch performers are usually dedicated enthusiasts of a particular musical genre – often a style that is no longer in vogue – and act as evangelists to spread awareness and appreciation of that music to new audiences. Most such acts do this by live performances at a variety of venues.\n\nUnlike tribute acts who are usually dedicated to recreating material associated with just one primary artist (such as Elvis Presley or The Beatles) as a nostalgic entertainment, revivalist artists tend to draw on material from a wide range of artists and writers from the chosen musical genre.\n\nUnlike cover bands who are primarily populist entertainers playing cover versions of popular hit songs to satisfy audience enjoyment of familiar music, revivalist artists usually see themselves as performers with a musical mission to revive a cherished genre. They often draw from a much broader repertoire of music than just the obvious hit songs of an era. Sometimes the mission includes drawing the audience's attention to forgotten or overlooked songs from the genre as well as the better-known hits.\n\nMost revivalist artists focus on performing material only from the original era that they are reviving. They replenish their repertoire by digging deeper in the catalogue of music from their chosen genre. Some artists eventually aspire to write new material in a similar style and become known for their own compositions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "893037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=893037", "title": "Road rage", "text": "Road rage\n\nRoad rage is aggressive or angry behavior exhibited by a driver of a road vehicle, which includes rude and offensive gestures, verbal insults, physical threats or dangerous driving methods targeted toward another driver or a pedestrian in an effort to intimidate or release frustration. Road rage can lead to altercations, assaults and collisions that result in serious physical injuries or even death. It can be referred to as an extreme case of aggressive driving.\n\nThe term originated in the United States in 1987–1988 from anchors at KTLA, a television station in Los Angeles, California, when a rash of freeway shootings occurred on the Interstate 405, 110, and 10 freeways in Los Angeles. These shooting sprees even spawned a response from the AAA Motor Club to its members on how to respond to drivers with road rage or aggressive maneuvers and gestures.\n\nAccording to a study by the AAA Foundation for Traffic Safety that examined police records nationally, there are more than 1,200 incidents of road rage on average reported per year in the United States, a number of which have ended with serious injuries or even fatalities. These rates rose yearly throughout the six years of the study. A number of studies have found that individuals with road rage were predominantly young (33 years old on average) and 96.6% male. In Germany, a gun-wielding truck driver was accused of firing at more than 762 vehicles and arrested in 2013, an exceptional case of road rage. According to authorities, the autobahn sniper was motivated by \"annoyance and frustration with traffic.\"\n\nIn some jurisdictions, there can be a legal difference between \"road rage\" and \"aggressive driving.\" In the U.S., only a few states have enacted special aggressive driving laws, where road rage cases are normally prosecuted as assault and battery (with or without a vehicle), or \"vehicular homicide.\" \n\nThe legal definition of road rage encompasses a group of behaviors expressed while driving, or stemming from traffic-related incidents. The U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration defines road rage as when \"The operation of a motor vehicle in a manner that endangers or is likely to endanger persons or property.\" This definition makes the distinction that aggressive driving is a traffic violation and road rage is a criminal offense.\n\nA stressed driver’s behavior depends on that driver’s coping abilities. Generally, drivers who scored high on aggression tests used direct confrontation strategies when faced with stress while driving. Strategies include long horn honks, swerving, tailgating and attempting to fight the other driver. Many drivers who experience road rage have admitted that they believe they commit more traffic violations. Driving presents many stresses any time a person is behind the wheel because of high speeds and other drivers making different decisions. As stress increases, the likelihood of a person having road rage increases dramatically, and if a person has road rage, their stress levels increase. Typically, younger males are most susceptible to road rage.\n\nAccording to one study, people who customize their cars with stickers and other adornments are more prone to road rage. The number of territory markers predicted road rage better than vehicle value or condition. Furthermore, only the number of bumper stickers, and not their content, predicted road rage.\nRoad rage is not an official mental disorder recognized in the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" (\"DSM\"), although according to an article published by the Associated Press in June 2006, the behaviors typically associated with road rage can be the result of a disorder known as intermittent explosive disorder that is recognized in the DSM. This conclusion was drawn from surveys of some 9,200 adults in the United States between 2001 and 2003 and was funded by the National Institute of Mental Health.\n\nRoad rage is a relatively serious act: It may be seen as an endangerment of public safety. It is, however, not always possible to judge intent by external observation, so \"road ragers\" who are stopped by police may be charged with other offences such as careless or reckless driving, or may be fined. Road ragers may be considered as criminals.\n\nIn New South Wales, Australia, road rage is considered an extremely serious act. Any person who chases another motorist or shows intimidating and/or bullying towards another road user can be charged with \"predatory driving\", a serious offence that can leave the culprit in jail for up to 5 years. Offenders can also be fined A$100,000 and disqualified from driving, whether or not he or she intended to harm the victim physically. If the predatory driving results in a physical assault or harm, and/or the victim's car was intentionally damaged, penalties can be much more severe.\n\nAdditionally, most common-law countries prohibit common assault, which could apply to road rage where the personal safety of the victim is seen to be threatened. The common law regards assault as both a criminal and civil matter, leading to both public criminal penalties and private civil liabilities.\n\nRoad rage, insults and rude gestures in traffic can lead to fines and even prison sentences to drivers who shout insults or make offensive gestures while driving.\n\nIn New Zealand, Road Rage in itself is not an offence, but Drivers are usually charged with other offences committed during an act of road rage (usually assault or unlawful possession of an offensive weapon). Drivers have a legal duty to take reasonable care to avoid endangerment of human life when operating a vehicle (s 156 Crimes Act 1961); failure to discharge this duty, such as an act of aggressive driving, can give rise to liability in criminal nuisance (s 146 Crimes Act 1961). Ramming a vehicle constitutes intentional or reckless damage to property, a criminal offence, with a maximum penalty of 7 years imprisonment (s 269 Crimes Act 1961). New Zealand courts currently have no powers to disqualify drivers who physically assault another road user.\n\nRoad rage is a criminal offence in Singapore. When found guilty, the offender may be jailed for up to two years and/or fined up to $5,000 for causing damage.\n\nIn the UK, road rage can result in criminal penalties for assault or more serious offences against the person. The Public Order Act 1986 can also apply to road rage. Sections 4A and 5 of the 1986 Act prohibit public acts likely to cause harassment, alarm or distress. Section 4 also prohibits threatening, abusive or insulting words or behaviour with intent to cause a victim to believe that violence will be used against himself or another.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, such as the Commonwealth of Virginia, it is easier to prosecute road rage as reckless driving instead of aggressive driving simply because the burden of proof does not require \"intent\" to successfully convict.\n\nIt is likely that those causing serious injury or death during \"road rage\" incidents will suffer more serious penalties than those applicable to similar outcomes from simple negligence. In April 2007, a Colorado driver was convicted of first-degree murder for causing the deaths of two motorists in November 2005. He will serve a mandatory sentence of two consecutive life terms.\n\nFourteen U.S. states have passed laws against aggressive driving. Only one state, California, has turned \"road rage\" into a legal term of art by giving it a particular meaning. In Virginia, aggressive driving is punished as a lesser crime (Class 2 misdemeanor) than reckless driving (Class 1 misdemeanor).\n\nA 2007 study of the largest U.S. metropolitan areas concluded that the cities with the least courteous drivers (most road rage) are Miami, Phoenix, New York, Los Angeles, and Boston. The cities with the most courteous drivers (least road rage) are Minneapolis, Nashville, St. Louis, Seattle, and Atlanta. In 2009, New York, Dallas/Fort Worth, Detroit, Atlanta and Minneapolis/St. Paul were rated the top five \"Road Rage Capitals\" of the United States.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44193225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44193225", "title": "Rogue literature", "text": "Rogue literature\n\nRogue literature is a literary genre that tells stories from the world of thieves and other criminals that was popular in England in the 16th and 17th centuries. The stories were mostly in a confessional form and full of vivid descriptions. Rogue literature is an important source in understanding the everyday life of the ordinary people and their language, and the language of thieves and beggars. This genre can be related to the stories of Robin Hood and jest book literature, as well as early examples of the first voice in fiction and autobiography.\n\nThe principal authors of such stories were Thomas Harman, Robert Copland, Robert Greene and Thomas Dekker.\n"}
{"id": "29191843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29191843", "title": "Round Ireland with a Fridge", "text": "Round Ireland with a Fridge\n\nRound Ireland with a Fridge is a film released in September 2010 by Fridge D'Or Productions. Based on Tony Hawks' book of the same name, it was written by and stars Tony.\n\nIt is directed by Ed Bye and also stars Ed Byrne, Josie Lawrence, Sean Hughes and Sara Crowe.\n\nThe movie tells the story of a disillusioned television personality whose career has stalled and who is looking for answers but doesn't know the questions. When his best friend taunts him for losing his sense of adventure Tony accepts a drunken £100 bet and sets off with his fridge as an unconventional travelling companion.\n\nThe film recreates Tony's actual 1997 journey hitchhiking around Ireland as he re-evaluated his life and career, found romance, met a wide range of bizarre characters, made many new friends and discovered that people are perfectly prepared to treat a small white domestic appliance as though it was a fully fledged person with a personality in its own right.\n\nDuring the course of the film the fridge is taken surfing, christened, blessed by nuns, accompanied by a bagpiper, taken to a bachelor festival and becomes the hero of a national radio station as Tony and all those he encountered become aware of the power and philosophy of the fridge.\n\n\nThe film was shot in London, West Wales, the Surrey Hills and Ireland in 2009. The producers were Tony Hawks, Simon Sharkey and Greg Macmanus, the cinematographer was John Sorapure and the film editor was Mark Wybourn.\n\nThe film premiered at the Cambridge Film Festival and was released on DVD on 8 November 2010.\n\nTony and the fridge were presented with a certificate by the Guinness World of Records that formally recognised their endeavour's world record status for the furthest distance hitchhiked with a fridge.\n\nThe film's soundtrack includes songs by Nik Kershaw, Chesney Hawkes, Andy Warrington, Tony Hawks and Brian Kennedy\n\n"}
{"id": "22095212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22095212", "title": "Ruapekapeka", "text": "Ruapekapeka\n\nRuapekapeka is a pā southeast of Kawakawa in the Northland Region of New Zealand. It is one of the largest and most complex pā in New Zealand, that was designed specifically to counter the cannons of the British forces. The earthworks can still be seen. \n\nRuapekapeka was the site of the last battle in the Flagstaff War, between Colonial forces and the Ngāpuhi led by Hone Heke and Te Ruki Kawiti, which was the first major armed conflict between the Colonial government and the Māori.\n\nThis war pā was named ruapekapeka (bats' nests) because the pihareinga, or dugouts with narrow circular entrances at top, which gave access to shelters that protected the warriors from cannon fire. These ruas or caves looked like a calabash buried underground, the narrow end uppermost and could accommodate 15 to 20 warriors.\n\nTe Ruki Kawiti and his allies, including Mataroria and Motiti, designed Ruapekapeka Pā as a further development of what is now called the \"gunfighter pā\" design that was used at the Battle of Ohaeawai. It was constructed during 1845, in a good defensive position, in an area of no strategic value, well away from non-combatants, as a challenge to British rule. Ruapekapeka Pā improved on the plan of the pā at Ohaeawai, the site of a battle in the Flagstaff War.\n\nThe outer walls of the pā had trenches (parepare) in front of and behind palisades that were high, built using puriri logs. Since the introduction of muskets the Māori had learnt to cover the outside of the palisades with layers of flax (Phormium tenax) leaves, making them effectively bulletproof as the velocity of musket balls was dissipated by the flax leaves. On some of the sides of the pā there were three rows of palisades and on other side there were two rows of palisades. There were passages between the front and back trenches (parepare), so that warriors could move forward to fire and return to shelter to reload. On the high ground an observation tower was erected. At the rear of the pā a well, some deep, was dug into a sandstone formation to provide a water-supply during the expected siege of the pā.\n\nWhen the new British Governor, Sir George Grey, failed to end the Flagstaff War by negotiation, he assembled a British force of 1,168 men in the Bay of Islands to deal with Hone Heke and Te Ruki Kawiti. In early December 1845 the Colonial forces, commanded by Lieutenant Colonel Despard, moved by water towards Ruapekapeka and began a two-week advance over to bring artillery up to the pā.\n\nThe ordnance used in the battle were three naval 32-pounders, one 18-pounder, two 12-pounder howitzers, one 6-pounder brass gun, four mortars, and two rocket-tubes (Congreve rockets). It took two weeks to bring the heavy guns into range of the pā, they started the cannon bombardment on 27 December 1845. The directing officers were Lieutenant Bland (HMS \"Racehorse\") and Lieutenant Leeds (HEICS \"Elphinstone\"); Lieutenant Egerton (HMS \"North Star\") was in charge of firing the rocket-tubes. Bombardment and an incomplete siege commenced on 27 December 1845 (the British lacking the manpower to completely surround the pā). Several weeks of siege punctuated by skirmishing followed.The guns were fired with accuracy throughout the siege causing considerable damage to the palisades, although those inside the pā were safe in the underground shelters.\n\nThe colonial forces consisted of the 58th Regiment (led by Lieut.-Colonel Wynward), the 99th Regiment (led by Captain Reed) and 42 volunteers from Auckland (led by Captain Atkyns). Tāmati Wāka Nene, Eruera Maihi Patuone, Tawhai, Repa, and Nopera Pana-kareao led around 450 warriors in support of the colonial forces. The soldiers were supported by the Royal Marines (under Captain Langford) and sailors from HMS \"Castor\", HMS \"Racehorse\", \"HMS North Star\", \"HMS Calliope\", and the 18-gun sloop HEICS \"Elphinstone\" of the Honourable East India Company.\n\nThe Māori had a deck-cannon (designed for use on a ship) and a field gun. A marine-gunner scored a direct hit on the deck-cannon after three shots, rendering it useless. In any event the Māori had limited supplies of gunpowder so that the possession of these guns did not assist the Māori in the defence of Ruapekapeka. The Māori were armed with double-barrel muzzle-loading muskets (\"Tupara\"), flintlock muskets (\"Ngutuparera\", so called because the hammer holding the flint looked like a duck's beak) as well as some pistols.\n\nSeveral weeks of siege punctuated by skirmishing followed, until early on the morning of Sunday 11 January 1846 a British foraging party noted the defenders were unusually quiet. The small group of British troops pushed over the palisade and entered the pā, finding it almost empty. They were reinforced, while Māori tried to re-enter the pā from the back. After a four-hour gun fight the remaining Māori withdrew, abandoning the pā. Lieutenant Colonel Despard claimed the outcome as a \"brilliant success\". The Royal Marines and sailors from \"HMS Hazard\", \"HMS North Star\" and \"HMS Calliope\" saw action in the battle. The \"Official Despatches\" on 17 January 1846 stated that casualties in the British forces were 3 soldiers killed and 11 wounded; 2 marines killed and 10 wounded; and 9 seamen killed and 12 wounded. However other published sources give different casualty figures: Reverend Richard Davis noted in his diary of 14 January 1846, that 12 were killed and 30 wounded; Māori casualties are unknown, (Heke and Kawiti later said they had lost around 60 dead during the whole of the campaign).\n\nThe reason why the defenders appeared to have abandoned but then re-entered the pā is the subject of continuing debate. It was later suggested that most of the Māori had been at church (many of them were devout Christians). Knowing that their opponents, the British, were also Christians they had not expected an attack on a Sunday. Reverend Richard Davis noted in his diary of 14 January 1846:\n\nHowever, later commentators have cast doubt on this explanation of the events of Sunday 11 January, as fighting had continued on a Sunday at the Battle of Ohaeawai in July 1845. Yet other later commentators suggested that Heke deliberately abandoned the pā to lay a trap in the surrounding bush, as this would provide cover and give Heke a considerable advantage. In this scenario, Heke's ambush succeeded only partially, as Kawiti's men, fearing their chief had fallen, returned towards the pā and the British forces engaged in battle with the Māori rebels immediately behind the pā.\n\nIt was Māori custom that the place of a battle where blood was spilt became tapu so that the Ngāpuhi left Ruapekapeka Pā. After the battle Kawiti and his warriors, carrying their dead, travelled some north-west to Waiomio, the ancestral home of Ngāti Hine.\n\nAfter the battle of Ruapekapeka Kawiti expressed the will to continue to fight, however Kawiti and Heke made it known that they would end the rebellion if the Colonial forces would leave the Ngāpuhi land.\n\nTāmati Wāka Nene acted as an intermediary in the negotiations with Governor Grey. At this time Governor Grey faced new threats of rebellion in the south and would have had logistical difficulties in a lengthy campaign against Heke and Kawiti; although Governor Grey may have underestimated the difficulties the essentially part-time Māori force would experience in continuing to fight against the Colonial forces. Governor Grey accepted Tāmati Wāka Nene's argument that clemency was the best way to ensure peace in the North. Heke and Kawiti were pardoned and no land was confiscated.\n\n"}
{"id": "6427769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6427769", "title": "Répertoire International des Sources Musicales", "text": "Répertoire International des Sources Musicales\n\nThe Répertoire International des Sources Musicales (RISM, English \"International Inventory of Musical Sources\", German \"Internationales Quellenlexikon der Musik\") is an international non-profit organization, founded in Paris in 1952, with the aim of comprehensively documenting extant sources of music all over the world. It is the largest organization of its kind and the only entity operating globally to document written musical sources. Shortly after its founding, A.H. King called RISM, \"one of the boldest pieces of long-term planning ever undertaken for the source material of any subject in the humanistic field.\"\n\nThe musical sources recorded are manuscripts or printed music, writings about music and libretti. They are stored in libraries, archives, monasteries, schools, and private collections. RISM establishes \"what\" exists and \"where\" it is kept. RISM is recognized among experts as the key place for documenting music sources all over the world.\n\nThe work of RISM in compiling a comprehensive index fulfills a twofold purpose: for one, music documents are protected from loss, and for another, they are made available to scholars and performing musicians.\n\nOne or several RISM working groups in more than 35 countries take part in the project. Around 100 individuals from those working groups catalogue the musical sources preserved in their countries. They pass their results on to the RISM Zentralredaktion (Central Editorial Office) in Frankfurt am Main, where the entries are edited and published.\n\nRISM working groups are currently active in the following countries and cities:\n\nThe RISM Zentralredaktion and the working groups in Germany are projects funded by the Academy of Sciences and Literature in Mainz. The other working groups receive independent funding in their own countries.\n\nRISM publications are divided into the following series:\nIn addition to these, working groups conduct projects to document libretti surviving in their respective countries.\n\nRISM Series A/I \"Individual Prints before 1800\" documents printed music of works by a single composer published between 1500 and 1800. Collected prints (anthologies of works by various composers) are published in RISM series B.\n\nEach individual entry contains the following information:\n\nSeries A/I is available through the RISM online catalog, after having appeared in print and as a CD-ROM. Apart from the stated intention of opening the way to the primary source for researchers and performers, this sort of catalogue provides attractive possibilities for other areas of interest and inquiry as well. For example, one can gain insight into many different topics while researching the reception of a piece. One way could be to find out how the music of a composer was regarded after his death; to find this out, it would be important to know how many and which of his works were reissued.\n\nOver 78,000 printed editions by 7,616 composers (arranged alphabetically) from 2,178 libraries were documented in the nine volumes of the series (published 1971–1981). Four supplementary volumes appeared between 1986 and 1999, and in 2003, an index volume followed listing publishers, printers, engravers and places of publication. All volumes of RISM series A/I were published by Bärenreiter in Kassel. The CD-ROM was published by Bärenreiter-Verlag at the end of 2012, and the CD-ROM data were incorporated into the online catalog in 2015.\n\nRISM series A/II \"Music Manuscripts after 1600\" lists only handwritten music. They are described in detail according to a uniform scheme containing more than 100 fields. There are currently more than 917,000 entries on pieces by around 27,000 composers available (as of November 2015, and the number is constantly increasing). The total number of music manuscripts extant worldwide is many times that large.\n\nThe entries are currently from more than 900 libraries in 37 countries: Australia, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Sweden, Switzerland, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Korea, Spain, Uruguay, Ukraine, the United Kingdom, the United States, and Venezuela. This makes RISM’s database by far the most extensive accessible set of records in the field.\n\nThe RISM database has been available free of charge online since June 2010. Access to this online catalog is through the Internet via the RISM online catalog or the RISM website. The catalogue was made possible through cooperation between RISM, the Bavarian State Library (Bayerische Staatsbibliothek), and the Berlin State Library (Staatsbibliothek zu Berlin). The CD-ROM version of the accumulated database produced and published by K. G. Saur in Munich was discontinued in 2008. The subscription database hosted by EBSCO (formerly by NISC) is still available.\n\nThe catalogue entries describe each piece in detail. Included are, among other things, information about the composer (including dates of birth and death), title, performing forces, as well as references to musicological literature. The manuscripts themselves are described in detail with respect to copyist, place and time of origin, librettist, previous owners, and dedicatees. In addition, many works can also be identified by means of a music incipit, that is, the opening notes or measures from important movements or sections of a piece.\n\nA variety of search boxes enables browsing and discovery through any of these fields. Specific questions can be answered by combining specific indexes. For example, it is possible to immediately access all the information stored by RISM about masses by Joseph Haydn. \nA search by means of a musical incipit is a valuable research tool when trying to identify an anonymous piece or a fragment of a piece. To make use of this tool, the researcher keys in the first few notes of the work.\n\nThe database provides information not only about the dissemination of works by composers who are still well known today, but also a wealth of knowledge about those many creative musicians who were highly regarded in their day, but are currently either little known, or even forgotten. This makes the database invaluable for music historians, and also makes it possible for performing musicians to “excavate” and rediscover many things.\n\nRISM series B comprises a systematic series which documents a self-contained group of sources. The volumes in series B are published by G. Henle of Munich. In addition, the portion of B/I covering the years 1500-1550 is available in the online catalog. Series B includes (an English translation of the title appears in parentheses where necessary):\n\n\nEntitled \"Directory of Music Research Libraries\", RISM series C lists in five volumes all the music libraries, archives, and private collections which house historical musical materials. This index of music libraries is produced in cooperation with the Publication Committee of the International Association of Music Libraries (IAML). The special volume \"RISM-Bibliothekssigel. Gesamtverzeichnis\" (RISM Library Sigla: Complete Index), which appeared in 1999, has been available in a regularly updated version on the RISM website since 2006, and in a searchable online database since 2011.\n\nRISM uses a series of abbreviations to identify different libraries and conservatories where manuscripts are located. For example, \"I-MOe\" means \"Italy-Biblioteca Estense Universitaria, Modena.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26932", "title": "Sagittarius (constellation)", "text": "Sagittarius (constellation)\n\nSagittarius is one of the constellations of the zodiac. It is one of the 48 constellations listed by the 2nd-century astronomer Ptolemy and remains one of the 88 modern constellations. Its name is Latin for the archer, and its symbol is (Unicode U+2650 ♐), a stylized arrow. Sagittarius is commonly represented as a centaur pulling-back a bow. It lies between Scorpius and Ophiuchus to the west and Capricornus and Microscopium to the east.\n\nThe center of the Milky Way lies in the westernmost part of Sagittarius (see Sagittarius A).\n\nAs seen from the northern hemisphere, the constellation's brighter stars form an easily recognizable asterism known as 'the Teapot'. The stars δ Sgr (Kaus Media), ε Sgr (Kaus Australis), ζ Sgr (Ascella), and φ Sgr form the body of the pot; λ Sgr (Kaus Borealis) is the point of the lid; γ Sgr (Alnasl) is the tip of the spout; and σ Sgr (Nunki) and τ Sgr the handle. These same stars originally formed the bow and arrow of Sagittarius.\n\nMarking the bottom of the teapot's \"handle\" (or the shoulder area of the archer), are the bright star (2.59 magnitude) Zeta Sagittarii (ζ Sgr), named Ascella, and the fainter Tau Sagittarii (τ Sgr).\n\nTo complete the teapot metaphor, under good conditions, a particularly dense area of the Milky Way can be seen rising in a north-westerly arc above the spout, like a puff of steam rising from a boiling kettle.\n\nThe constellation as a whole is often depicted as having the rough appearance of a stick-figure archer drawing its bow, with the fainter stars providing the outline of the horse's body. Sagittarius famously points its arrow at the heart of Scorpius, represented by the reddish star Antares, as the two constellations race around the sky. Following the direct line formed by Delta Sagittarii (δ Sgr) and Gamma2 Sagittarii (γ Sgr) leads nearly directly to Antares. Fittingly, Gamma2 Sagittarii is Alnasl, the Arabic word for \"arrowhead\", and Delta Sagittarii is called Kaus Media, the \"center of the bow,\" from which the arrow protrudes. Kaus Media bisects Lambda Sagittarii (λ Sgr) and Epsilon Sagittarii (ε Sgr), whose names Kaus Borealis and Kaus Australis refer to the northern and southern portions of the bow, respectively.\n\nα Sgr (Rukbat, meaning \"the archer's knee\") despite having the \"alpha\" designation, is not the brightest star of the constellation, having a magnitude of only 3.96 (not shown on the main map as it is located below the map's southeastern corner, north is up). Instead, the brightest star is Epsilon Sagittarii (ε Sgr) (\"Kaus Australis,\" or \"southern part of the bow\"), at magnitude 1.85.\n\nSigma Sagittarii (σ Sgr) (\"Nunki\") is the constellation's second-brightest star at magnitude 2.08. Nunki is a B2V star approximately 260 light years away. \"Nunki\" is a Babylonian name of uncertain origin, but thought to represent the sacred Babylonian city of Eridu on the Euphrates, which would make Nunki the oldest star name currently in use.\n\nZeta Sagittarii (ζ Sgr) (\"Ascella\"), with apparent magnitude 2.61 of A2 spectra, is actually a double star whose two components have magnitudes 3.3 and 3.5.\n\nDelta Sagittarii (δ Sgr) (\"Kaus Meridionalis\"), is a K2 spectra star with magnitude 2.71 and only 85 light years from Earth.\n\nEta Sagittarii (η Sgr) is a double star with component magnitudes of 3.18 and 10, while Pi Sagittarii (π Sgr) (\"Albaldah\") is actually a triple system whose components have magnitudes 3.7, 3.8, and 6.0.\n\nThe Bayer designation Beta Sagittarii (Beta Sgr, β Sagittarii, β Sgr) is shared by two star systems, β¹ Sagittarii, with apparent magnitude 3.96, and β² Sagittarii, magnitude 7.4. The two stars are separated by 0.36° in the sky and are 378 light years from earth. Beta Sagittarii, located at a position associated with the forelegs of the centaur, has the traditional name Arkab, meaning \"achilles tendon.\"\n\nNova Sagittarii 2015 No. 2 was discovered on 15 March 2015, by of Chatsworth Island, NSW, Australia. It lies near the center of the constellation. It reached a peak magnitude of 4.3 before steadily fading.\n\nThe Milky Way is at its densest near Sagittarius, as this is where the galactic center lies. As a result, Sagittarius contains many star clusters and nebulae.\n\nSagittarius contains several well-known nebulae, including the Lagoon Nebula (Messier 8), near λ Sagittarii; the Omega Nebula (Messier 17), near the border with Scutum; and the Trifid Nebula (Messier 20), a large nebula containing some very young, hot stars.\n\n\nIn addition, several other nebulae have been located within Sagittarius and are of interest to astronomy.\n\n\nIn 1999 a violent outburst at V4641 Sgr was thought to have revealed the location of the closest known black hole to Earth, but later investigation increased its estimated distance by a factor of 15. The complex radio source Sagittarius A is also in Sagittarius, near its western boundary with Ophiuchus. Astronomers believe that one of its components, known as Sagittarius A*, is associated with a supermassive black hole at the center of the galaxy, with a mass of 2.6 million solar masses. The Sagittarius Dwarf Elliptical Galaxy is located just outside the Milky Way.\n\nBaade's Window is an area with very little obscuring dust that shows objects closer to the Milky Way's center that would normally be visible. NGC 6522, magnitude 8.6, and NGC 6528, magnitude 9.5, are both globular clusters visible through Baade's Window. 20,000 and 24,000 light-years from Earth, with Shapley classes of VI and V respectively, both are moderately concentrated at their cores. NGC 6528 is closer to the galactic core at an approximate distance of 2,000 light-years.\n\n2MASS-GC02, also known as Hurt 2, is a globular cluster at a distance of about 16 thousand light-years from Earth. It was discovered in 2000 by Joselino Vasquez, and confirmed by a team of astronomers under the leadership of R. J. Hurt at 2MASS.\n\nThe space probe New Horizons is moving on a trajectory out of the Solar System as of 2016 that places the probe in front of Sagittarius as seen from the Earth. New Horizons will exhaust its radioisotope thermoelectric generator long before it reaches any other stars.\n\nThe Wow! signal was a strong narrowband radio signal that appeared to have come from the direction of Sagittarius.\n\nThe Babylonians identified Sagittarius as the god Nergal, a strange centaur-like creature firing an arrow from a bow. It is generally depicted with wings, with two heads, one panther head and one human head, as well as a scorpion's stinger raised above its more conventional horse's tail. The Sumerian name Pabilsag is composed of two elements – Pabil, meaning 'elder paternal kinsman' and Sag, meaning 'chief, head'. The name may thus be translated as the 'Forefather' or 'Chief Ancestor'. The figure is reminiscent of modern depictions of Sagittarius.\n\nIn Greek mythology, Sagittarius is usually identified as a centaur: half human, half horse. However, perhaps due to the Greeks' adoption of the Sumerian constellation, some confusion surrounds the identity of the archer. Some identify Sagittarius as the centaur Chiron, the son of Philyra and Cronus, who was said to have changed himself into a horse to escape his jealous wife, Rhea, and tutor to Jason. As there are two centaurs in the sky, some identify Chiron with the other constellation, known as Centaurus. Or, as an alternative tradition holds, that Chiron devised the constellations Sagittarius and Centaurus to help guide the Argonauts in their quest for the Golden Fleece.\n\nA competing mythological tradition, as espoused by Eratosthenes, identified the Archer not as a centaur but as the satyr Crotus, son of Pan, who Greeks credited with the invention of archery. According to myth, Crotus often went hunting on horseback and lived among the Muses, who requested that Zeus place him in the sky, where he is seen demonstrating archery.\n\nThe arrow of this constellation points towards the star Antares, the \"heart of the scorpion\", and Sagittarius stands poised to attack should Scorpius ever attack the nearby Hercules, or to avenge Scorpius's slaying of Orion.\n\n, the Sun appears in the constellation Sagittarius from 18 December to 18 January. In tropical astrology, the Sun is considered to be in the sign Sagittarius from 22 November to 21 December, and in sidereal astrology, from 16 December to 14 January.\n\n"}
{"id": "8017127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8017127", "title": "Small Learning Community", "text": "Small Learning Community\n\nA Small Learning Community (SLC), also referred to as a School-Within-A-School, is a school organizational model that is an increasingly common form of learning environment in American secondary schools to subdivide large school populations into smaller, autonomous groups of students and teachers. SLCs can also be physical learning spaces.\n\nThe primary purpose of restructuring secondary schools into SLCs is to create a more personalized learning environment to better meet the needs of students. Each community will often share the same teachers and student members from grade to grade. Teachers in these units usually have common planning time to allow them to develop interdisciplinary projects and keep up with the progress of their shared students.\n\nSLCs can take several forms.\n\n\nCore courses include:\n\n\n\n\nElectives include:\n\n\nOther courses:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55058386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55058386", "title": "Solar viewer", "text": "Solar viewer\n\nSolar viewer (also known as solar viewing glasses or solar eclipse glasses) is special eyewear designed for direct viewing of the Sun. Standard sunglasses are unable to filter out eye damaging radiation. Solar viewers are required for safe viewing of solar events such as eclipses. The recommended optical density of this eyewear is 5.\n\nAccording to the American Astronomical Society (AAS) products meeting the ISO 12312-2 standard avoids risk damage, and issued a list of reputable vendors of eclipse glasses. The organization warned against products claiming ISO certification, or even citing the exact standard number, but not tested by an accredited laboratory, or those bearing incomplete certification information. Another problem was counterfeits of reputable vendors' products, some even claiming the company's name (such as with American Paper Optics which published information detailing the differences between its glasses and counterfeits).\n\nEyewear made prior to 2015, may have a 3 year use limit before they can no longer effectively filter out UV radiation. Starting in 2015, products made with ISO 12312-2 can be used indefinitely as long as they have not been damaged by scratch or tear.\n\nIn the months leading to the solar eclipse of August 21, 2017, counterfeits of light-filtering glasses for solar eclipses began proliferating, leading to public health issues. Effective eclipse glasses filter visible, ultraviolet, \"and\" infrared light. The eye's retina lacks pain receptors, and thus damage could occur without one's awareness.\n\nThe AAS said determining whether an eclipse viewer was safe required a spectrophotometer and lab equipment, but often the user should see nothing through the filter except for the Sun, sunlight reflecting off of shiny metal, or intense light sources such as an LED flashlight.\n\nAndrew Lund, the owner of a vendor of eclipse glasses, noted that not all counterfeit glasses were necessarily unsafe. He stated to \"Quartz\" that the counterfeits he tested blocked the majority of harmful light, concluding that \"the IP is getting ripped off, but the good news is there are no long-term harmful effects.\"\n\nOn July 27, 2017, Amazon required all eclipse viewing products sold on its website have a submission of origin and safety information, and proof of an accredited ISO certification. In mid-August 2017, Amazon recalled and pulled listings for eclipse viewing glasses that \"may not comply with industry standards\", and gave refunds to customers who had purchased them.\n\n"}
{"id": "10241777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10241777", "title": "Technology policy", "text": "Technology policy\n\nThere are several approaches to defining the substance and scope of technology policy.\n\nAccording to the American scientist and policy advisor Lewis M. Branscomb, technology policy concerns the \"public means for nurturing those capabilities and optimizing their applications in the service of national goals and interests\". Branscomb defines technology in this context as \"the aggregation of capabilities, facilities, skills, knowledge, and organization required to successfully create a useful service or product\".\n\nOther scholars differentiate between technology policy and science policy, suggesting that the former is about \"the support, enhancement and development of technology\", while the latter focuses on \"the development of science and the training of scientists\". Rigas Arvanitis, at the Institut de Recherche pour le développement (IRD) in France, suggests that \"science and technology policy covers all the public sector measures designed for the creation, funding, support and mobilisation of scientific and technological resources\".\n\nTechnology policy is a form of 'active industrial policy', and effectively argues, based on the empirical facts of technological development as observed across various societies, industries and time periods, that markets rarely decide industrial fortunes in and of their own and state-intervention or support is required to overcome standard cases of market-failure (which may include, for example, under-funding of Research & Development in highly competitive markets).\n\nTechnology policy may be more broadly defined. Michael G. Pollitt offers a multidisciplinary approach with social science and humanities perspective on \"Good\" policy.\n\nTechnological determinism presumes that a society's technology drives the development of its social structure and cultural values. The term is believed to have been coined by Thorstein Veblen (1857–1929), an American sociologist and economist. The most radical technological determinist in the United States in the 20th century was most likely Clarence Ayres who was a follower of Thorstein Veblen and John Dewey. William Ogburn was also known for his radical technological determinism.\n\nViewed through the lens of Science policy, public policy can directly affect the funding of capital equipment, intellectual infrastructure for industrial research, by providing tax incentives, direct funding or indirect support to those organizations who fund, and conduct, research. Vannevar Bush, director of the office of scientific research and development for the U.S. government in July 1945, wrote \"Science is a proper concern of government\" Vannevar Bush directed the forerunner of the National Science Foundation, and his writings directly inspired researchers to invent the hyperlink and the computer mouse. The DARPA initiative to support computing was the impetus for the Internet Protocol stack. In the same way that scientific consortiums like CERN for high-energy physics have a commitment to public knowledge, access to this public knowledge in physics led directly to CERN's sponsorship of development of the World Wide Web and standard Internet access for all.\n\nThe first major elaboration of a technological determinist view of socioeconomic development came from the German philosopher and economist Karl Marx, whose theoretical framework was grounded in the perspective that changes in technology, and specifically productive technology, are the primary influence on human social relations and organizational structure, and that social relations and cultural practices ultimately revolve around the technological and economic base of a given society. Marx's position has become embedded in contemporary society, where the idea that fast-changing technologies alter human lives is all-pervasive. \nAlthough many authors attribute a technologically determined view of human history to Marx's insights, not all Marxists are technological determinists, and some authors question the extent to which Marx himself was a determinist. Furthermore, there are multiple forms of technological determinism. On the subject of technology as a means to liberation or enslavement, a question arising from a technological determinist perspective, David E. Cooper wrote in the Royal Institute of Philosophy Supplement 38:7-18 (1995), \"people myopically impressed by the world as an object of beauty or worship die out. Those who are myopically impressed by it as a source of energy do not: they even prosper.\" \n\nTechnology policy takes an 'evolutionary approach' to technical change, and hereby relates to evolutionary growth theory, developed by Luigi Pasinetti, J.S. Metcalfe, Pier Paolo Saviotti, and Koen Frenken and others, building on the early work of David Ricardo. J.S. Metcalfe noted in 1995 that \"much of the traditional economic theory of technology policy is concerned with so-called 'market failures' which prevent the attainment of Pareto equilibria by violating one or other of die conditions for perfect competition\".\n\nIn contrast to the evolutionary paradigm, classic political science teaches technology as a static 'black box'. Similarly Neoclassical economics treats technology as a residual, or exogenous factor, to explain otherwise inexplicable growth (for example, shocks in supply that boost production, affecting the equilibrium price level in an economy). In the United States, the creation of the U.S. Office of Science and Technology Policy responded to the need policy approaches wherein not all technologies were treated as identical based on their social or economic variables. Technology policy is distinct from science studies but both have been influenced by Thomas Samuel Kuhn. Research in the technology policy domain recognizes the importance of, amongst others, Vannevar Bush, Moses Abramovitz, William J. Abernathy and James M. Utterback.\n\nTechnology policy approaches Science as the pursuit of verifiable or falsifiable hypotheses, while science studies has a post-modern view whereby science is not thought to get at an objective reality. Technology policy is rarely post-modern. Its goal is the improvement of policy and organizations based on an evolutionary view, and understanding, of the underlying scientific and technological constraints involved in economic development, but also their potential. For example, some clean coal technologies via carbon sequestration and the allocation of electromagnetic spectrum by auction are ideas that emerged from technology policy schools. The Dominant design paradigm, developed by William J. Abernathy and James M. Utterback, is an idea with significant implications for innovation, market structure and competitive dynamics both within and between nations that emerged from empirical research in Technology management, a domain of Technology Policy.\n\n\nThe study of technology policy, Technology management or engineering and policy is taught at multiple universities.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6917388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6917388", "title": "The Incorporated Knight", "text": "The Incorporated Knight\n\nThe Incorporated Knight is a fix-up fantasy novel by American writers L. Sprague de Camp and Catherine Crook de Camp, the first book in their sequence of two Neo-Napolitanian novels. Chapters 1-5 first appeared as L. Sprague de Camp's short stories \"Two Yards of Dragon\", \"The Coronet\", \"Spider Love\" and \"Eudoric's Unicorn\" in \"Flashing Swords!\", \"The Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction\" and \"The Year's Best Fantasy Stories\" in 1976-1977. The complete novel was first published in hardcover by Phantasia Press in August 1987, and in paperback by Baen Books in September 1988, with a trade paperback edition, also from Baen, following in 1991. An E-book edition was published by Gollancz's SF Gateway imprint on September 29, 2011 as part of a general release of de Camp's works in electronic form.\n\nSquire Eudoric Damberson of Zurgau in the kingdom of Locania wishes to wed Lusina, the daughter of his former tutor, the magician Doctor Baldonius. The price is attaining the status of knight and supplying the magician with a portion of dragon hide for use in his magic. Dragons are locally scarce, so Eudoric and his trusty servant Jillo set out for Pathenia in the east to slay one. But once the two do manage to bring one down (by accident) they face legal complications for violating the local game laws. Returning, Eudoric finds his promised bride has run off with a minstrel, and his feudal lord Baron Emmerhard disinclined to knight him for his heroic exploit; he consoles himself by pursuing a scheme to establish a stagecoach line like those in Pathenia. (This material first appeared as the short story \"Two Yards of Dragon\").\n\nA subsequent rescue of Emmerhard from a magic spell finally secures him the knighthood, but he remains unlucky in love, as the baron's daughter Gerzilda also shuns his hand. (This material first appeared as the short story \"The Coronet\").\n\nNext Eudoric pursues Maragda, daughter of Rainmar, a local robber baron who has been raiding his coach line. Rainmar tasks him with slaying the giant spider Fraka, and once again matters go awry. While Eudoric's knightly reputation and stage line prosper, his marriage prospects remain nil. (This material first appeared as the short story \"Spider Love\").\n\nThe pattern is repeated when he is commissioned to capture a unicorn for his ultimate overlord Emperor Thorar IX of the New Napolitanian Empire, intended as a gift for the visiting Grand Cham Gzik of Pantorozia. The emperor's daughter Petrilla, smitten with Gzik, weds the Cham instead. (This material first appeared as the short story \"Eudoric's Unicorn\").\n\nSeeking to extend his stage line into Letitia, capital of the kingdom of Franconia that borders the empire to the west, his reputation for getting things done leads to him being deputed to rescue King Clothar's sister Yolanda, held captive in the rude neighboring realm of Armoria. There he is forced to save her from a sea monster and then wed her, after which he flees back to Franconia with his new bride. He finds her a less than congenial mate — Yolanda is both a control freak and an enchantress. Fighting with each other and dangers along the way, they encounter the restless ghost of a king cursed to endure eternal boredom in his tomb, an orthodox ogre who kills and eats those of the wrong faith, and the soldiers of the hostile duchy of Dorelia.\n\nNor are Eudoric's difficulties left behind on their return to Letitia. Mewed up as a prisoner in all but name in his princess bride's mansion by her supernatural servants, he soon discovers she is a female Bluebeard who regularly collects husbands and petrifies them as she tires of them. By calling on the aid of Dr. Tsudai, a Serican sorcerer whose life he had saved during his earlier stay in Letitia, Eudoric is ultimately successful in freeing his three predecessor-husbands from statuehood and escaping their lethal spouse.\n\nSafe back in Locania, where his nuptials are not recognized, Eudoric receives a message from Yolanda pleading for him to return, as he is the only one of her husbands whose loss she regrets. He prudently ignores her letter, choosing instead to resume his courtship of his original intended, Lusina — she is also back, having grown disillusioned with her unreliable lover. Meanwhile, he and Dr. Baldonius hatch plans to incorporate his coach line as a limited liability company after the fashion of the hongs of Serica.\n\n\"The Incorporated Knight\" and its sequel \"The Pixilated Peeress\" are both set in the medieval era of an alternate world sharing the geography of our own, but in which a \"Napolitanian\" (Neapolitan) empire filled the role of Rome and no universal religion like Christianity ever arose, leaving its nations split among competing pagan sects. The New Napolitanian Empire of which Eudoric is a subject roughly corresponds to our world's Holy Roman Empire, or Germany, while Franconia and Armoria, the lands he visits to the west, are the equivalents of France and Brittany, respectively. The geography of more eastern regions such as Pathenia and Pantorozia are borrowed in part from the fanciful regions portrayed in \"Mandeville's Travels\"; the time-period corresponds to the historical 14th century. In keeping with the character of de Camp's fantasy world as a cognate of our own, its place names tend to echo those of the real world. Examples include Franconia, equating to France but derived from the historic German region of the same name; Armoria, based on Armorica, an ancient name for Brittany; Serica, an ancient name for China or Xinjiang; Sogrambrium, the capital of the New Napolitanian Empire, derived from the Sicrambri or Sugambri, an ancient Germanic tribe located on the east bank of the Rhine near the present border of Germany and the Netherlands; and Letitia, the capital of Franconia, a variation on Lutetia, the ancient name of Paris.\n\nReviews were favorable. \"Publishers Weekly\", noting that \"[t]he hallmark of Sprague de Camp's classic fantasy has been a wry humor as he asked commonsensical questions of the genre's imaginative but impractical motifs,\" called this book, \"the adventures of ... a knight whose only goals are a wife and a decent living,\" \"[m]inor de Camp but still most enjoyable,\" Jackie Cassada, writing for \"Library Journal\", praised its \"doughty and resourceful hero and ... generous dollop of the de Camps' boisterous humor.\" Roland Green, in \"The Booklist\", called the book \"a pleasant fantasy romp,\" noting that while it was \"likely to be released in paperback in due time,\" its \"high quality definitely makes [it] worth considering in hardcover.\"\n\nThe main plot device of bickering male and female protagonists not destined for a happy ending together is featured in several late de Camp novels, notably \"The Prisoner of Zhamanak\" (1982), \"The Bones of Zora\" (1983), and \"The Pixilated Peeress\" (1991).\n"}
{"id": "47706518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47706518", "title": "The Ship for Southeast Asian and Japanese Youth Program", "text": "The Ship for Southeast Asian and Japanese Youth Program\n\nThe Ship for Southeast Asian and Japanese Youth Program (東南アジア青年の船 \"Tōnan-ajia-seinen-no-fune\"), commonly referred to as The Ship for Southeast Asian Youth Program and SSEAYP , , is an annual youth exchange program organised by the Cabinet Office of Japan and governments of Southeast Asian countries for the purpose of promoting friendship and mutual understanding among the youths of eleven Southeast Asian countries and Japan, to broaden their perspective on the world, and furthermore, to strengthen their spirit of international cooperation and practical skills for international collaboration. Since its inception in 1974, the program has organised 41 international voyages attended by youth delegations sent by governments of respective members.\n\nFour cruiseships have been deployed by the CaO for the journeys.\n\nThe Purpose of SSEAYP is to promoting friendship and mutual understanding among the youths of the ten Southeast Asian countries and Japan, to broaden their perspective on the world, and furthermore, to strengthen their spirit of international cooperation and practical skills for international collaboration.\n\nSSEAYP is an annual programme sponsored by the Japanese Cabinet Office and supported by the member-countries of ASEAN And an ASEAN observer Timor Leste. The programme brings together more than 300 youth from ASEAN countries Japan, providing them with the unique opportunity to live together on board the ship \"Nippon Maru\" for over 40 days.\n\nSSEAYP started in January 1974 based on Joint Statements issued between Japan and the five ASEAN countries, namely, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore and Thailand. Brunei Darussalam joined in 1985. Vietnam participated in the programme in 1996 while the Lao People's Democratic Republic and Myanmar participated in 1998, Cambodia in 2000.\n\nThe official working language for the program is English.\n\n"}
{"id": "4828168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4828168", "title": "Tiki", "text": "Tiki\n\n<nowiki></nowiki>\n\nIn Māori mythology, Tiki is the first man created by either Tūmatauenga or Tāne. He found the first woman, Marikoriko, in a pond; she seduced him and he became the father of Hine-kau-ataata. By extension, a tiki is a large or small wooden or stone carving in humanoid form, although this is a somewhat archaic usage in the Māori language. Carvings similar to tikis and coming to represent deified ancestors are found in most Polynesian cultures. They often serve to mark the boundaries of sacred or significant sites.\n\nIn traditions from the West Coast of the South Island of New Zealand, the first human is a woman created by Tāne, god of forests and of birds. Usually her name is Hine-ahu-one. In other legends, Tāne makes the first man Tiki, then makes a wife for him. In some West Coast versions, Tiki himself, as a son of Rangi and Papa, creates the first human by mixing his own blood with clay, and Tāne then makes the first woman. Sometimes Tūmatauenga, the war god, creates Tiki. In another story the first woman is Mārikoriko. Tiki marries her and their daughter is Hine-kau-ataata. In some traditions, Tiki is the penis of Tāne (Orbell 1998:178, Tregear 1891:510-511). In fact, Tiki is strongly associated with the origin of the reproductive act.\n\nIn one story of Tiki among the many variants, Tiki was lonely and craved company. One day, seeing his reflection in a pool, he thought he had found a companion, and dove into the pool to seize it. The image shattered and Tiki was disappointed. He fell asleep and when he awoke he saw the reflection again. He covered the pool with earth and it gave birth to a woman. Tiki lived with her in serenity, until one day the woman was excited by an eel. Her excitement passed to Tiki and the first reproductive act resulted (Reed 1963:52).\n\nJohn White names several Tiki or perhaps manifestations of Tiki in Māori tradition:\n\nThe word appears as \"tiki\" in New Zealand Māori, Cook Islands Māori, Tuamotuan, and Marquesan; as \"tii\" in Tahitian, and as \"kii\" in Hawaiian. The word has not been recorded from the languages of Western Polynesia or in the Rapa Nui language.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19962175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19962175", "title": "Timbral listening", "text": "Timbral listening\n\nTimbral listening is the process of actively listening to the timbral characteristics of sound.\n\nIn timbral listening, 'pitch is subordinate to timbre'. Instead, the specific quality of a musical tone is determined by considering 'the presence, distribution and relative amplitude of overtones.'\n\nWhen using this listening technique/ method of perception / interpretation there is 'a relation between timbre and spectral content which is analogous to that between pitch and frequency in that one is the prevalent cultural construct of the other'\n\nThe most common form of timbral listening is listening to speech. This is demonstrated by listening to, for example, the vowels /a/ and /i/ spoken at the same pitch and intensity. The difference between the two sounds is entirely one of spectrum, or as the term is used in this article, timbre.\n\nIt has been suggested that \"timbral listening is an ideal sonic mirror of the natural world\". It is often (but not always) used in association with musics that are based in mimicry of sounds in the natural environment. Valentina Suzukei suggests that 'it was the nomadic way of life and its focus on the timbral qualities of natural sounds that created this kind of musicality'. This is especially prevalent in Canada where composers such as Hildegard Westerkamp apply the thinking of R. Murray Schafer's World Soundscape Project to their compositions.\n\nAs timbre has 'no domain-specific adjectives' it 'must be described in metaphor or by analogy to other senses', This method also has limitations.\n\nThe composition of timbre-centered music in the nomadic communities of Tuva involves mimicry of sounds heard in the environment. Timbral listening is a fundamental component of listening to, understanding and being able to correctly perform this music using vocal techniques such as throat singing \"khoomei\" and harmonic producing instruments such as the jaw harp, bzaanchy, shoor, qyl qiyak, qyl-gobyz, ku-rai and igil.\n\nThis music employs a fundamental drone and overtone harmonics. It consists of \"a whispered text, accompanied by the \"inanga\", a trough zither of eight strings. To listen correctly (using timbral listening), one must consider \"the effect of the combined timbres of the noisy whisper and the inanga\" as a whole sound.\n\nMore recently, computers and synthesizers are being used by contemporary composers to produce timbral-centered music. Contemporary composers state timbral listening as the correct technique to adopt in listening to and analysing their timbre (as opposed to pitch) based compositions. 'Pure timbres' are explored using methods such as granular synthesis in works such as \"Dragon of the Nebula\" by Mara Helmuth.\n\nThe music produced by the Shakuhachi end blown flute such as honkyoku, contains timbral variations that are of equal importance to pitch variations. These timbral variations are indicated in Shakuhachi musical notation.\n\nThe technique of timbral listening is used by sound engineers to evaluate timbre difference.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "188307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=188307", "title": "United Service Organizations", "text": "United Service Organizations\n\nThe United Service Organizations Inc. (USO) is a nonprofit organization that provides live entertainment, such as comedians and musicians, and other programs to members of the United States Armed Forces and their families. Since 1941, it has worked in partnership with the Department of War, and later with the Department of Defense (DoD), relying heavily on private contributions and on funds, goods, and services from various corporate and individual donors. Although it is congressionally-chartered, it is not a government agency.\n\nDuring World War II, the USO became the GI's \"home away from home\" and began a tradition of entertaining the troops that continues today. Involvement in the USO was one of the many ways in which the nation had come together to support the war effort, with nearly 1.5 million people having volunteered their services in some way. After it was disbanded in 1947, it was revived in 1950 for the Korean War, after which it also provided peacetime services. During the Vietnam War, USOs were sometimes located in combat zones.\n\nThe organization became particularly famous for its live performances, called camp shows, through which the entertainment industry helped boost the morale of its servicemen and women. Hollywood in general was eager to show its patriotism, and many famous celebrities joined the ranks of USO entertainers. They entertained in military bases at home and overseas, sometimes placing their own lives in danger, by traveling or performing under hazardous conditions.\n\nThe USO has over 200 locations around the world in 14 countries (including the U.S.) and 27 states. During a gala marking the USO's 75th anniversary in 2016, retired Army Gen. George W. Casey Jr., the current chairman of the USO Board of Governors, estimated that the USO has served more than 35 million Americans over its history.\n\nThe USO was founded in 1941 by Mary Ingraham in response to a request from President Franklin D. Roosevelt to provide morale and recreation services to U.S. uniformed military personnel. Roosevelt was elected as its honorary chairman. This request brought together six civilian organizations: the Salvation Army, Young Men’s Christian Association (YMCA), Young Women’s Christian Association (YWCA), National Catholic Community Service, National Travelers Aid Association and the National Jewish Welfare Board. They were brought together under one umbrella to support U.S. troops. Roosevelt said he wanted \"these private organizations to handle the on-leave recreation of the men in the armed forces.\" According to historian Emily Yellin, \"The government was to build the buildings and the USO was to raise private funds to carry out its main mission: boosting the morale of the military.\"\n\nThe first national campaign chairman was Thomas Dewey, who raised $16 million in the first year. The second chairman was future senator Prescott Bush. The USO was incorporated in New York on February 4, with the first facility erected in DeRidder, Louisiana,1941. More USO centers and clubs opened around the world as a “Home Away from Home” for GIs. The USO club was a place to go for dances and social events, for movies and music, for a quiet place to talk or write a letter home, or for a free cup of coffee and an egg.\n\nThe USO also brought Hollywood celebrities and volunteer entertainers to perform for the troops. According to movie historian Steven Cohan, \"most of all ... in taking home on the road, it equated the nation with showbiz. USO camp shows were designed in their export to remind soldiers of home.\" They did this, he noted, by \"nurturing in troops a sense of patriotic identification with America through popular entertainment.\" An article in \"Look\" magazine at the time, stated, \"For the little time the show lasts, the men are taken straight to the familiar Main Street that is the goal of every fighting American far away from home.\" Maxene Andrews wrote, \"The entertainment brought home to the boys. \"Their\" home.\" Actor George Raft stated at the beginning of the war, \"Now it's going to be up to us to send to the men here and abroad real, living entertainment, the songs, the dances, and the laughs they had back home.\"\n\nUSO promotional literature stated its goals:\n\nAfter being formed in 1941, in response to World War II, \"centers were established quickly... in churches, barns, railroad cars, museums, castles, beach clubs, and log cabins.\" Most centers offered recreational activities, such as holding dances and showing movies. And there were the well-known free coffee and doughnuts. Some USO centers provided a haven for spending a quiet moment alone or writing a letter home, while others offered spiritual guidance and made childcare available for military wives.\n\nBut the organization became mostly known for its live performances called \"Camp Shows\", through which the entertainment industry helped boost the morale of its servicemen and women. USO Camp Shows, Inc. began in October 1941, and by that fall and winter 186 military theaters existed in the United States. Overseas shows began in November 1941 with a tour of the Caribbean. Within five months 36 overseas units had been sent within the Americas, the United Kingdom, and Australia, and during 1942 1,000 performed as part of 70 units. Average performers were paid $100 a week; top stars were paid $10 a day because their wealth let them contribute more of their talents.\n\nThese overseas shows were produced by the American Theatre Wing, which also provided food and entertainment for the armed services in their Stage Door Canteens. Funds from the sale of film rights for a story about the New York Canteen went toward providing USO tours of shows for overseas troops.\n\nFollowing the Invasion of Normandy on June 6, 1944, Edward G. Robinson was the first movie star to travel to Normandy to entertain the troops. He had already been active back home selling war bonds, and donated $100,000 to the USO. During his show, he said, \"This is the most privileged moment of my life, the opportunity to be here with you.\" The following month, Camp Shows began in Normandy. \n\nUntil fall 1944 overseas units contained five performers or fewer; \"The Barretts of Wimpole Street\", using local theaters in France and Italy, was the first to use an entire theater company, including scenery. At its high point in 1944, the USO had more than 3,000 clubs, and curtains were rising on USO shows 700 times a day. The USO's fundraising efforts were controversial. An MGM film, \"Mr. Gardenia Jones\", created to assist the USO in its fundraising campaign, was nearly withdrawn from theaters due to objections by the War Department, mainly because of scenes showing soldiers jumping with joy at the opportunity to shower in canteens and rest in overstuffed and comfortable USO chairs. The Army, noted the \"New York Times\", \"feels this is not good for morale as it implies that there are no showers or other comforts for soldiers in military camps.\" The film starred Ronald Reagan, then a captain in the Army Air Force.\n\nFundraising was also aided by non-USO entertainment groups. Soldier Shows, which troops – often experienced actors and musicians – organized and held their own performances, were common. The army formed a Special Services unit that organized such shows and supervised the USO, and the experience from the Soldier Shows led to Irving Berlin's Broadway show \"This Is the Army\". Performers and writers from throughout the army were recruited for the production; they remained soldiers and continued drills. Berlin, who had written and produced the similar \"Yip, Yip, Yaphank\" during World War I, took the entire 165-person cast on tour in Europe in 1942, raising nearly $10 million for the Army Emergency Relief Fund. The following year the show was made into a film by the same title, again starring Ronald Reagan. One of the highlights of the film was its introduction of Berlin's song, \"God Bless America,\" considered one of the nation's most patriotic songs. The \"This Is The Army\" stage production toured worldwide until it closed in October 1945 in Honolulu.\n\nWar correspondent Quentin Reynolds, wrote in an article for \"Billboard magazine\" in 1943, that \"Entertainment, all phases of it – radio, pictures and live – should be treated as essential. You don't know what entertainment means to the guys who do the fighting until you've been up there with the men yourself. [...] You can quote me as saying that we should use entertainment as an essential industry so long as it's for the boys in service. Anybody who has been there would insist on it. [...] Hell, you should have seen how happy the G.I.'s were when they heard the ballplayers were coming over. And John Steinbeck, just back from a chore as war correspondent, [...] also applauded show business as part of the war effort and its importance as a morale builder.\"\nAccording to historian Paul Holsinger, between 1941 and 1945, the USO did 293,738 performances in 208,178 separate visits. Estimates were that more than 161 million servicemen and women, in the U.S. and abroad, were entertained. The USO also did shows in military hospitals, eventually entertaining more than 3 million wounded soldiers and sailors in 192 different hospitals. There were 702 different USO troupes that toured the world, some spending up to six months per tour. In 1943, a United States Liberty ship named the SS \"U.S.O.\" was launched. She was scrapped in 1967.\n\nTwenty-eight performers died in the course of their tours, from plane crashes, illness, or diseases contracted while on tour. In one such instance in 1943, a plane carrying a USO troupe crashed outside Lisbon, killing singer and actress Tamara Drasin, and severely injuring Broadway singer Jane Froman. Froman returned to Europe on crutches in 1945 to again entertain the troops. She later married the co-pilot who saved her life in that crash, and her story was made into the 1952 film \"With a Song in My Heart\", with Froman providing the actual singing voice. Others, such as Al Jolson, the first entertainer to go overseas in World War II, contracted malaria, resulting in the loss of his lung, cutting short his tour.\n\nOne author wrote that by the end of the war \"the USO amounted to the biggest enterprise American show business has ever tackled. The audience was millions of American fighting men, the theatre's location: the world, the producer: USO camp shows\" Performances continued after the end of the war in 1945. 60 new units went to Europe after V-E Day, and 91 new units went to the Pacific after V-J Day. The USO dissolved in December 1947, after having spent $240 million in contributions on Camp Shows, canteens, and other services. Special Services productions grew in number as replacement.\n\nIn 1991, 20th Century Fox produced the film, \"For the Boys\", which told the story of two USO performers, and starred Bette Midler and James Caan. It covered a 50-year timespan, from the USO's inception in 1941 through Operation Desert Storm, in 1991. Another movie was planned in 1950 but never made. Just 10 days after Al Jolson returned from entertaining troops in Korea, he agreed with RKO producers to star in a new movie, \"Stars and Stripes for Ever,\" about a USO troupe in the South Pacific during World War II. Unfortunately, he died a week later as a result of physical exhaustion from his tour.\n\nFrom 1941 to 1947, the USO presented more than 400,000 performances, featuring entertainers such as: Abbott and Costello, Larry Adler, Brian Aherne, Louise Allbritton, Morey Amsterdam, Marian Anderson, The Andrews Sisters, Armida, Jean Arthur, Fred Astaire, Gene Autry, Lauren Bacall, Fay Bainter, Lucille Ball, Desi Arnaz, Tallulah Bankhead, Lynn Bari, Count Basie, Peg Leg Bates, Constance Bennett, Jack Benny, Edgar Bergen, Ingrid Bergman, Milton Berle, Eubie Blake, Ben Black, Ben Blue, Ray Bolger, Humphrey Bogart, Mary Brian, Hillary Brooke, Phyllis Brooks, Joe E. Brown, Willie Bryant, George Burns and Gracie Allen, Charles Butterworth, James Cagney, Joseph Calleia, Cab Calloway, Judy Canova, Eddie Cantor, Charley Chaney, June Clyde, Jerry Colonna, Gary Cooper, Katharine Cornell, Bing Crosby, Bebe Daniels, Linda Darnell, Bette Davis, Joan Davis, Dennis Day, Olivia De Havilland, Joe DeRita, Marlene Dietrich, Doraine and Ellis, Morton Downey, Ellen Drew, Irene Dunne, Deanna Durbin, Jimmy Durante, Ann Dvorak, Nelson Eddy, Duke Ellington, Skinnay Ennis, Maurice Evans, Jinx Falkenburg, Glenda Farrell, Joey Faye, Leslie Fenton, Gracie Fields, Shep Fields, W.C. Fields, Joan Fontaine, Harrison Ford, The Four Evans, Kay Francis, Jane Froman, Reginald Gardiner, Ed Gardner, Judy Garland, Billy Gilbert, Betty Grable, Cary Grant, John Garfield, William Gargan, Greer Garson, Paulette Goddard, Benny Goodman, Jack Haley, Adelaide Hall, Moss Hart, Susan Hayward, Rita Hayworth, Jascha Heifetz, Hildegarde, Celeste Holm, Bob Hope, Lena Horne, Marsha Hunt, Alberta Hunter, Betty Hutton, Allen Jenkins, George Jessel, Al Jolson, Boris Karloff, Danny Kaye, Gene Kelly, Guy Kibbee, Andre Kostelanetz, Gene Krupa, Kay Kyser, Veronica Lake, Hedy Lamarr, Dorothy Lamour, Carole Landis, Frances Langford, Laurel and Hardy, Gertrude Lawrence, Anna Lee, Gypsy Rose Lee, Vivien Leigh, Joan Leslie, Joe E. Lewis, Beatrice Lillie, Carole Lombard, Edmund Lowe, Paul Lukas, Alfred Lunt and Lynne Fontanne, Ida Lupino, Jeanette MacDonald, Tex McCrary, Joel McCrea, Hattie McDaniel, Dorothy McGuire, Frank McHugh, Frederic March, Olga \"Gypsy\" Markoff, Marion Martin, Mitzi Mayfair, Mike Mazurki, the Marx Brothers, Adolphe Menjou, Una Merkel, Ray Milland, Glenn Miller, Maria Montez, Constance Moore, Garry Moore, Tim Moore, Chester Morris, Zero Mostel, George Murphy, Mildred Natwick, Merle Oberon, Pat O'Brien, Minerva Pious, Lily Pons, George Raft, Luise Rainer, Gregory Ratoff, Martha Raye, Ossy Renardy, Paul Robeson, Edward G. Robinson, The Rockettes, Ginger Rogers, Tony Romano, Mickey Rooney, Rosalind Russell, Ann Rutherford, Ann Savage, Randolph Scott, Jack Sharkey, Artie Shaw, Ann Sheridan, Dinah Shore, Phil Silvers, Frank Sinatra, Ray Sinatra, Noble Sissle, Kate Smith, Ann Sothern, Jo Stafford, Barbara Stanwyck, Tamara Swan, Bill Stern, Isaac Stern, James Stewart, Fred Stone, Gloria Stuart, Ed Sullivan, Akim Tamiroff, Danny Thomas, Three Bon Bunnies, Gene Tierney, Martha Tilton, Arthur Tracy, Spencer Tracy, Arthur Treacher, Sophie Tucker, Lana Turner, Helen Twelvetrees, Vera Vague, Gus Van, Fats Waller, Ethel Waters, John Wayne, Senor Wences, Mae West, Arleen Whelan, Chill Wills, Paul Winchell, Anna May Wong, Keenan Wynn and Vera Zorina.\n\nAccording to Emily Yellin, many of the key foot soldiers in the USO's mission were women who were \"charged with providing friendly diversion for U.S. troops who were mostly men in their teens and twenties.\" USO centers throughout the world recruited female volunteers to serve doughnuts, dance, and just talk with the troops. USO historian Julia Carson writes that this \"nostalgic hour,\" designed to cheer and comfort soldiers, involved \"listening to music – American style\" and \"looking at pretty girls, like no other pretty girls in the world – American girls.\"\n\nAfrican-American women scrambled to rally the community around the soldiers and create programs for them. By 1946, hostesses had served more than two thousand soldiers a day while also providing facilities for the wounded and convalescent who were on leave. They went to black businesses and fraternal organizations in order to find sponsorship for their USO group, and later expanded to fulfill the needs of soldiers during the Korean War. Moreover, they worked to merge black and white USOs into one desegregated unit. As black historian Megan Shockley noted, \"Their work for the desegregation of USOs had begun during World War II, and it finally paid off.\"\n\nWomen were also key entertainers who performed at shows. Stars such as Marlene Dietrich, Judy Garland, Betty Grable and Rita Hayworth had traveled over a million miles. Yellin notes that on one tour, Hayworth visited six camps, gave thousands of autographs, and \"came back from Texas with a full-fledged nervous breakdown from over-enthusiasm!\" Opera singer Lily Pons, after she had performed a \"serious\" opera song to troops in Burma, \"an applause erupted that stunned even the most seasoned performers.\" She later wrote in a letter, \"Every woman back home wears a halo now, and those who represent her had better keep theirs on, too.\"\n\nAuthor Joeie Dee pointed out that \"for women entertainers, traveling with the USO made it possible to be patriots and adventurers as well as professionals.\" She adds, however, that the G.I.s in the USO audiences \"tended to see these women in a different light – as reminders of and even substitutes for their girls back home, as a reward for fighting the war, as embodiments of what they were fighting for.\" Edward Skvarna remembers 1943, when he met Donna Reed at a USO canteen and asked her to dance. \"I had never danced with a celebrity before, so I felt delighted, privileged even, to meet her... But I really felt she was like a girl from back home.\" Jay Fultz, author of a biography of Reed, states that soldiers \"often wrote to her as if to a sister or the girl next door, confiding moments of homesickness, loneliness, privation and anxiety.\"\n\nOne female entertainer wrote about conditions while performing:\nSinger-actress-dancer Ann Miller described performing for badly wounded soldiers. She did forty-eight shows for \"broken soldiers,\" who were mostly lying on stretchers in the lobbies of hotels, watching as she entertained them. Yellin writes, \"During her last show she collapsed and had to be taken home on an Army airplane.\" Afterwards, Miller described the experience:\n\nIn November and December 1968 Jennie and Terrie Frankel (the Doublemint Twins) performed in Vietnam with the USO – Hollywood Overseas Committee and were shepherded around Vietnam by escort officers (USO Performers were given GS15 ratings, equivalent to Colonel, to help maintain their safety) to entertain troops in the field, where larger USO shows could not perform.\n\nIn 1947, the USO was disbanded, due partly to lack of funds. In 1951, when the United States entered the Korean War, Secretary of Defense George Marshall and Secretary of the Navy Francis P. Matthews requested that the USO be reactivated \"to provide support for the men and women of the armed forces with help of the American people.\" According to war historian Paul Edwards, Between 1952 and 1953, not a day went by without the USO providing services somewhere in Korea. At home or overseas, in 1952 it was serving 3.5 million in the armed forces using much the same methods of operation as it did in World War II.\n\nMany stars, both well-known and new, came to perform, including Bob Hope, Errol Flynn, Debbie Reynolds, Donald O'Connor, Piper Laurie, Jane Russell, Paul Douglas, Terry Moore, Marilyn Monroe, Danny Kaye, Rory Calhoun, Mickey Rooney, Jayne Mansfield, Al Jolson and many others. Hispanic-American soldiers were entertained by artists such as Pérez Prado's Show featuring Evita Muñoz as his invited mambo dancer. Jolson was the first to volunteer, but due to lack of USO funds traveled to Korea at his own expense (he was also the first to entertain troops during World War II).\nVeterans have recalled many of the USOs events, sometimes in vivid detail:\n\nAuthor Linda Granfield in describing the show, writes, \"For two hours, the men could forget they were soldiers at war. After the show, they returned to the fighting in the hills. Some in that audience never made it back.\" By the end of the war, over 113,000 American USO volunteers were working at 294 centers at home and abroad. And 126 units had given 5,422 performances to servicemen in Korea and the wounded in Japan.\n\nThe USO was in Vietnam before the first combat troops arrived, with the first USO club opened in Saigon in April 1963. The 23 centers in Vietnam and Thailand served as many as a million service members a month, and the USO presented more than 5,000 performances during the Vietnam War featuring stars such as John Wayne, Ann-Margret, Sammy Davis Jr., Raymond Burr, Phyllis Diller, Martha Raye, Joey Heatherton, Wayne Newton, Jayne Mansfield, Redd Foxx, Rosey Grier, Anita Bryant, Nancy Sinatra, Jimmy Boyd, Lola Falana, George Peppard and Bob Hope. Philip Ahn, the first actor of Korean descent to become a Hollywood star, became the first Asian American USO performer to entertain troops in Vietnam.\n\nIn addition, the USO operated centers at major U.S. airports to provide a lounge and place to sleep for American servicemen between their flights. Vietnam historian James Westheider noted that the USO \"tried to bring a little America to Vietnam.\" Volunteer American civilians, who did 18-month tours, staffed the clubs. According to Westheider, \"The young women wore miniskirts – no slacks were allowed.\" Each club had a snack bar, gift shops, a barbershop, photo developing, overseas phone lines, and hot showers.\n\nWhen providing entertainment, the USO did its best to attract known stars from back home to help relieve the stresses of war. Senator John Kerry recalled how important this kind of diversion would become. He remembered a \"Bob Hope Follies\" USO show, which included actress Ann-Margret, Miss America, football star Rosey Grier, and others. According to Kerry biographer Douglas Brinkley, \"When the Swift finally made it back to the My Tho River, the crew confronted the heartbreaking sight of a huge Navy landing craft ferrying the troops back. The USO show was over.\" Kerry later wrote, \"The visions of Ann Margret and Miss America and all the other titillating personalities who would have made us feel so at home hung around us for a while until we saw three Chinook helicopters take off from the field and presumed that our dreams had gone with them.\"\n\nBut for GIs who saw the show, it was worth it: \"We turned to watch Ann perform, and for about two minutes of American beauty, the war was forgotten. Everyone fully understood just what was really worth fighting for. . . . The show was fantastic, but the escape the Bob Hope tour provided us in expectation for days before, and after, helped us keep in touch with what we were there for – God, Country, apple pie ... and Ann-Margret!\"\n\nThe visits by the stars meant a lot to the men and women in Vietnam. \"It was not just the entertainment; it meant that they were not forgotten that far away from home,\" writes Westheider. He adds that the tours made a \"deep impression\" on the stars as well. Singer and actress Connie Stevens remembered her 1969 tour with Bob Hope, when she decided to go despite the fact she had two children both under the age of two. Today, she claims that \"veterans were still stopping her and thanking her for visiting Vietnam over 30 years later.\"\n\nSimilarly, Ann-Margret during a book signing was approached by a veteran who asked her to sign a photo he took of her performing in Vietnam. Although the book's publishing representative for the signing event would not allow her to sign anything other than her book, the veteran's wife recalls:\n\nIn November–December 1968 the Sig Sakowitz troop from Chicago performed over 36 shows in South Vietnam with the USO in: Pleiku, Dalat, Danang, Cam Ran Bay, Phu Bai, Phu Loy, Hue, Natrang, Tan Son Nhut Airbase, Saigon and places in the boonies known only to military intelligence and the lonely soldiers yearning for a taste of home. The troop consisted of Doublemint Twins Terrie and Jennie Frankel, Gaslight Club singer Sara Sue, Comedian Tony Diamond and personality Sig Sakowitz. Shows were also performed with comedian Joey Bishop of the Rat Pack.\n\nGeorge Peppard, successful star of stage, TV and motion pictures, arrived in Vietnam for a USO HANDSHAKE TOUR in 1970 to visit the military in the hospitals and out in the “boonies.” ...He showed a keen interest in the men’s mission while they were hungry for news of life back in the “World.” ... Polaroid pictures were taken by Mr. Peppard’s escort officer, autographed, and given to the men.\nIn 1983, a bloody civil war was raging in Lebanon. In an effort to stop the violence in the region a Multinational Force of peacekeepers composed largely of U.S., Italian and French armed service members was created and sent to the region to attempt a restoration of order. As part of the multinational force the United States mobilized an expeditionary force composed of members of the United States Marine Corps and elements of the United States Sixth Fleet which operated out of the Mediterranean Sea.\n\nCarrying on a tradition he had begun in World War II of spending Christmas with U.S. forces overseas, Bob Hope and his troupe of entertainers gave a show on board the USS \"New Jersey\" (BB-62) on December 24, 1983. Four hundred Marines stationed in Beirut attended the show.\n\nAmerican troops have been deployed in Italy since the end of World War II. In 1988, a car bomb targeted the USO club in Naples, which killed five people including a U.S. Navy officer.\n\nTo support troops participating in Operation Desert Shield, USO centers opened in Saudi Arabia. Entertainers performing for the troops included Jay Leno, Steve Martin, Delta Burke, Ann Jillian, Gerald McRaney, Marie Osmond, the Pointer Sisters, country singer Gina James, and Bob Hope on his final USO tour.\n\nTo support troops participating in Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom, USO centers opened in Afghanistan, Iraq, Kuwait and Qatar. USO centers number more than 160 around the world. In those years, the USO opened centers at Fort Campbell, Kentucky; Fort Riley, Kansas; Fort Bliss, Texas; Fort Carson, Colorado; and Afghanistan. The USO provides a variety of programs and services, including orientation programs, family events, free Internet and e-mail access, free drinks and snacks, free phone calls home and recreation services. One of the newer programs, called \"USO in a Box,\" delivers program materials ranging from DVD players and videos to musical instruments to remote forward operating bases in Afghanistan.\n\nU.S. military personnel and their families visit USO centers more than eight million times each year.\nBruce Willis visited Baghdad, Camp Kir Kush and Camp Caldwell, Iraq around December 2003. Mr. Willis visited military bases in Iraq during his visit in Iraq.\n\nFrom June 8 to 11, 2009, TV personality Stephen Colbert traveled to Iraq to film his show \"The Colbert Report\" for four days in a USO sponsored event.\n\nOther entertainers who have traveled to the Middle East to perform include Al Franken (who made six USO tours in Kosovo, Iraq and Afghanistan before being elected a United States Senator from Minnesota), Robin Williams, Craig Ferguson, Gary Sinise, Zac Brown, Five Finger Death Punch, Artie Lange, Gary Dell'Abate, Nick DiPaolo, Jim Florentine, Dave Attell, Avenged Sevenfold, Jessica Simpson, Carrie Underwood, Drowning Pool, Toby Keith (with special guest Gina James), Montgomery Gentry, Kellie Pickler, Mayra Veronica, Carlos Mencia, O.A.R., Trace Adkins, Kathleen Madigan, Louis C.K., Dane Cook, Lewis Black, Third Day, Colin Quinn, Kathy Griffin and Neil McCoy.\n\nThe USO has provided services for the annual \"Tribute to the Troops\" special of World Wrestling Entertainment. They have aired WWE RAW from Afghanistan and Iraq every Christmas in the United States in a pre-taped show from the combat zone.\n\nOn July 16, 2012, Hollywood actor Charlie Sheen announced that he would donate at least $1 million to the USO. This would be among the largest single monetary donations ever given to the organization.\n\nIn 1997, the U.S. Congress honored Bob Hope by declaring him the \"first and only honorary veteran of the U.S. armed forces.\" According to Hope biographer William Faith, his reputation has become ingrained in the \"American consciousness\" because he had flown millions of miles to entertain G.I.s during both wartime and peace. His contribution to the USO began in 1941 and ended with Operation Desert Shield in 1991, spending 48 Christmases overseas with American service personnel. He was always treated as \"an asset to the U.S. Government with his willingness to entertain whenever they needed him.\" After WWII was declared over, the USO had sent out an \"impassioned bulletin\" asking entertainers not to abandon the GIs now that the war was over. Hope was among the first to say yes. The Military Order of the Purple Heart notes that \"his contributions to the USO are well known: they are legend.\"\n\nAs a result of his non-stop entertainment to both the civilian population and the military, he received numerous other honors over the years: a C-17 Air Force plane was named \"The Spirit of Bob Hope\"; a naval vessel was named the \"USNS Bob Hope\"; and streets, schools, hospitals, and a golf tournament were also named in his honor. A Senate resolution declared him \"a part of American folklore.\" The \"Guinness Book of Records\" called him the most honored entertainer ever. And during his 1993 televised birthday celebration, when he turned 90, General Colin Powell saluted Hope \"for his tireless USO trouping\", which was followed by onstage tributes from all branches of the armed forces. General William Westmoreland spoke about his loyalty to the GI throughout the gritty Vietnam years. And bandleader Les Brown, who was with him during many of his tours, mentioned that his band \"had seen more of Hope's ass in the last forty years than any of Hope's immediate family.\"\n\nWar correspondent Quentin Reynolds wrote in 1943, \"He and his troupe would do 300 miles in a jeep, and give four shows... One of the generals said Hope was a first rate military target since he was worth a division; that that's about 15,000 men. Presumably the Nazis appreciated Hope's value, since they thrice bombed towns while the comic was there.\"\n\nDuring the Vietnam War years he gave a number of high-rating television specials and sensed that the media had given him a broad endorsement for continuing on his GI mercy missions. Soon after his Christmas show in Saigon in 1967, he learned that the Vietcong had planned a terrorist attack at his hotel against him and his entire troupe, missing him by ten minutes. He was later \"mystified,\" writes Faith, \"and ... increasingly intolerant of the pockets of dissent. Draft-card burnings on college campuses angered him...\" \"Can you imagine,\" Hope wrote in a magazine article, \"... that people in America are burning their draft cards to show their opposition and that some of them are actually rooting for your defeat?\" In the spring of 1973, Hope began writing his fifth book, \"The Last Christmas Show\", which was dedicated to \"the men and women of the armed forces and to those who also served by worrying and waiting.\" He signed over his royalties to the USO.\n\nHis final Christmas show was during Operation Desert Shield in 1990. The show was not easy, notes Faith. \"There were so many restrictions. Hope's jokes were monitored by the State Department to avoid offending the Saudis... and the media was restricted from covering the shows... Because in Saudi Arabia national custom prescribes that women must be veiled in public, Ann Jillian, Marie Osmond, and the Pointer Sisters were left off Hope's Christmas Eve show.\"\n\nIn 2009, Stephen Colbert performing his last episode of weeklong taping in Iraq for his \"The Colbert Report\" show, carried a golf club on stage and dedicated it to Bob Hope's service for the USO.\n\nThe USO has a paid staff of approximately 300. Additionally, more than 44,000 USO volunteers provide an estimated 371,417 hours of service annually. As reported by the USO, the unpaid volunteer to paid employee ratio overseas is 20 to 1. Within the United States, the number is \"significantly higher.\"\n\nThe following information is based on USO's audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011:\n\nBilly Joel's song, \"Allentown\" (1982), includes the lines: \"Well our fathers fought the Second World War/\nSpent their weekends on the Jersey Shore/\nMet our mothers in the USO/\nAsked them to dance/\nDanced with them slow.\"\n\nFrom the 1979 film \"Apocalypse Now\": \"Charlie didn't get much USO. He was dug in too deep or moving too fast. His idea of great R&R was cold rice and a little rat meat. He had only two ways home: death, or victory.\"\n\nThe music video for the My Chemical Romance song, \"The Ghost of You\" is set at a USO dance. \n\nThe climax of the 1999 \"South Park\" movie, \"\", is set at a USO show.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52301253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52301253", "title": "Washington Redskins name opinion polls", "text": "Washington Redskins name opinion polls\n\nControversy over the name of the Washington Redskins has led to the use of public opinion polling to establish whether the term \"redskin\" is insulting to Native Americans, and whether it should be changed. Poll results show that a majority of the general population and a large majority of Native Americans are not offended by the name, and have criticized some scholars and Native American leaders as being erroneous, misleading, and indicative of white privilege.\n\nLouis Gray, president of the Tulsa Indian Coalition Against Racism and a member of the Osage Nation, said in 2013, \"You wouldn't [take a poll] with any other race. You wouldn't have African-Americans vote to decide whether or not any sort of racial epithet would be offensive.\"\n\nWhile varying somewhat, national opinion polls consistently indicate that a majority of the general public do not advocate a name change.\n\nThe September 2014 national poll found that 68 percent think the name is not disrespectful of Native Americans, 19 percent say it shows \"some\" disrespect, and 9 percent say it is \"a lot\" disrespectful. This is in contrast to polls of DC, Maryland, and Virginia fans; a small majority of whom said that the word \"redskin\" is offensive to Native Americans in at least some contexts by 59 percent, 56 percent, and 53 percent.\n\nPolls seeking to provide evidence of the opinion of Native Americans suffer from many limitations. First is the small size of the population, less than one percent of the total population of the United States. It takes months of sampling in order to gather a statistically significant sample. The most significant difficulty has been the problem of using self-identification as the only means of identifying Native Americans.\n\nWhile not specific to the Redskins, a survey conducted in 2002 by The Harris Poll for \"Sports Illustrated\" (SI) found that 81 percent of Native Americans who live outside traditional Indian reservations and 53 percent of Indians on reservations did not find the names or images used by sports team to be discriminatory. The authors of the article concluded that \"Although most Native American activists and tribal leaders consider Indian team names and mascots offensive, neither Native Americans in general nor a cross section of U.S. sports fans agree\". According to the article, \"There is a near total disconnect between Indian activists and the Native American population on this issue.\" Soon after the SI article, a group of five social scientists experienced in researching the mascot issue published a journal article arguing against the validity of this survey and its conclusions. They state, \"The confidence with which the magazine asserts that a 'disconnect' between Native American activists and Native Americans exists on this issue belies the serious errors in logic and accuracy made in the simplistic labeling of Native Americans who oppose mascots as 'activists.'\"\n\nThe survey most frequently cited by opponents of change as definitive of Native American opinion was performed in 2004 as part of the National Annenberg Election Survey. Among other questions regarding election year issues, respondents who identified themselves as being Native American were asked: \"The professional football team in Washington calls itself the Washington Redskins. As a Native American, do you find that name offensive or doesn't it bother you?\" In response, ninety percent replied that the name did not bother them, while nine percent said that it was offensive, and one percent would not answer. The methods used in this survey and the conclusions that can be drawn from it have been criticized by social scientists, Native American scholars and legal experts for years. In August, 2015, a memo written by senior researchers at the organization responsible for collecting the data for the survey made clear that it should not be taken as an accurate reflection of Native American attitudes at the time.\n\nAn alternative method to standard opinion polls was used by the Center for Indigenous Peoples Studies at California State University, San Bernardino. A survey was conducted of 400 individuals, with 98 individuals positively identified as Native Americans, finding that 67% agreed with the statement that \"Redskins\" is racial or racist. The response from non-natives was almost the opposite, with 68% responding that the name is not racist.\n\nIn May 2016, \"The Washington Post\" (WaPo) released a poll of self-identified Native Americans that produced the same results as the 2004 Annenberg poll, that 90% of the 504 respondents were \"not bothered\" by the team's name.\n\nNew questions included:\n\nDue to variations between the characteristics of the sample and the population of Native Americans based upon Census data from 2010, the reported results were based upon statistical weighting of the raw data. The respondents were older (274 of the 504 being over 50), more highly educated (at least some college), and more likely to live in the Northeast and North Central regions, compared to Native Americans in the Census. Criticism of the wording of the question \"As a Native American, do you find that name offensive or doesn't it bother you?\" as being confusing was addressed by asking the question again to 43 respondents to check that the same answer was given, which it was by 41 of the 43. However, the problem critics have with the question is that it is unclear what is being asked given that \"do you find the name offensive\" is distinct from \"or doesn't it bother you\", the later also being awkwardly worded. Reports of the results by the media, such as the Associated Press, say Native Americans are \"not offended\" rather than \"not bothered\".\n\nAdrienne Keene, Ed.D responded that the poll uses faulty data and methods, such as the continuing problem of self-identification, and the reporting of the results misses the point regarding objections to the name established by social science research and the authentic voices of Native Americans as being about real harms, not individual feelings. NCAI Executive Director Jacqueline Pata stated, \"The survey doesn't recognize the psychological impacts these racist names and imagery have on American Indian and Alaska Natives. It is not respectful to who we are as Native people. This poll still doesn't make it right.\"\n\nThe Native American Journalists Association (NAJA) issued a statement calling the publication of the poll, and the reporting of its significance, as not only inaccurate and misleading but unethical. \"The reporters and editors behind this story must have known that it would be used as justification for the continued use of these harmful, racist mascots. They were either willfully malicious or dangerously naïve in the process and reporting used in this story, and neither is acceptable from any journalistic institution.\"\n\nWhile not addressing the NAJA criticism, the WaPo editorial board continues to maintain its prior position that the name is a slur and that they will avoid its use as much as possible. However, one WaPo editor and advocate for change, Robert McCartney, has decided to drop any further protest in light of the poll results.\n\nA \"Los Angeles Times\" editorial cites the evidence that the name is offensive to many, which the poll does not change given its questionable representation of Native American opinion.\n\n"}
{"id": "29071145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29071145", "title": "World news", "text": "World news\n\nWorld news or international news or even foreign coverage is the news media jargon for news from abroad, about a country or a global subject. For journalism, it is a branch that deals with news either sent by foreign correspondents or news agencies, or – more recently – information that is gathered or researched through distance communication technologies, such as telephone, satellite TV or the internet.\n\nAlthough in most of the English-speaking world this field is not usually regarded as a specific specialization for journalists, it is so in nearly all the world. Particularly in the United States, there is a blurred distinction between world news and \"national\" news when they include directly the national government or national institutions, such as wars in which the US are involved or summits of multilateral organizations in which the US are a member.\n\nAt the birth of modern journalism, most news were foreign, as registered by the courants of the 17th century in West and Central Europe, such as the \"Daily Courant\" (England), the \"Nieuwe Tijudinger\" (Antwerp), the \"Relation\" (Strasbourg), the \"Avisa Relation oder Zeitung\" (Wolfenbüttel) and the \"Courante Uyt Italien, Duytsland & C.\" (Amsterdam). Since these papers were aimed at bankers and merchants, they brought mostly news from other markets, which usually meant other nations. In any case, it is worthy to remark that nation-states were still incipient in 17th-century Europe.\n\nFrom the 19th century on, with newspapers already established in Europe, the United States and a few other countries, innovations in telecommunications such as the telegraph made news from abroad easier to be spread. The first news agencies were then founded, like AFP (France), Reuters (UK), Wolff (currently DPA, Germany) and the AP (US).\n\nWar journalism is one of the best known subfields of world news (although war coverage can be national for the media of belligerent countries themselves).\n\nThere are essentially two types of reporters who do foreign reporting: the foreign correspondent (full-time reporter employed by a news source) and the special envoy (sent abroad to cover a specific subject, temporarily stationed in a location).\n\nThe correspondent is a reporter based in a foreign city (often the capital of a country) covering a region, a country or sometimes even an entire continent. He or she regularly files stories to the news editor. He/she gathers materials for these stories from local officials, members of the community, and the local media, as well as from events he/she directly witnesses. Correspondents typically stay in touch with the local community and maintain contacts with other journalists and correspondents in order to identify strategic sources in the government, among diplomats, members of the military and other organizations on the ground who may provide important information.\n\nThe number of foreign correspondents has dropped significantly over the past 20 years or more. Often, a media company is either uninterested or unable to afford to support a single correspondent, such as in many developing countries. In some places, they cannot obtain visas due to political constraints, or otherwise dangerous conditions prohibit a media company from stationing a reporter there. In recent years, the drop in foreign correspondents has been due to cutbacks within media companies (often, but not always, a result of economics alone). Among English language newspapers, only eight daily newspapers have full-time correspondents in more than ten foreign stations, four from the US, three from the UK and one from India: \n\n35 – \"Wall Street Journal\" (US): Baghdad, Bangkok, Beijing, Beirut, Berlin, Brussels, Buenos Aires, Dubai, Frankfurt, Hong Kong, Istanbul, Jakarta, Jerusalem, Johannesburg, Kabul, Kuala Lumpur, Lagos, London, Manila, Mexico City, Moscow, Mumbai, New Delhi, Paris, Prague, Rio de Janeiro, Rome, São Paulo, Seoul, Shanghai, Singapore, Taipei, Tokyo, Toronto, Zurich\n\n24 – \"New York Times\" (US): Baghdad, Beijing, Beirut, Berlin, Cairo, Caracas, Dakar, Hong Kong, Islamabad, Jakarta, Jerusalem, Johannesburg, Kabul, London, Mexico City, Moscow, Mumbai, Nairobi, New Delhi, Paris, Rome, São Paulo, Shanghai, Tokyo\n\n19 – \"Financial Times\" (UK): Beijing, Berlin, Bombay, Brussels, Dubai, Frankfurt, Hong Kong, Jakarta, Jerusalem, Moscow, Mumbai, New Delhi, New York, Paris, Taipei, Tokyo, Shanghai, Sydney, Washington\n\n17 – \"Washington Post\" (US): Baghdad, Beijing, Berlin, Bogotá, Cairo, Islamabad, Jerusalem, Kabul, London, Mexico City, Moscow, Nairobi, New Delhi, Paris, Shanghai, Tehran, Tokyo\n\n15 – \"The Guardian\" (UK): Accra, Bangkok, Beijing, Berlin, Brussels, Kabul, Islamabad, Jerusalem, Los Angeles, Madrid, New York, Paris, Rome, Tehran, Tokyo\n\n13 – \"The Daily Telegraph\" (UK): Beijing, Brussels, Jerusalem, Kabul, Los Angeles, Moscow, Nairobi, New Delhi, New York, Paris, Shanghai, Sydney, Washington\n\n13 – \"Los Angeles Times\" (US): Baghdad, Beijing, Beirut, Cairo, Islamabad, Jerusalem, Johannesburg, Kabul, London, Mexico City, Moscow, New Delhi, Seoul\n\n12 – \"The Hindu\" (India): Addis Ababa, Beijing, Colombo, Dhaka, Dubai, Islamabad, Kathmandu, London, Moscow, Paris, Singapore, Washington \n\nWhen reporters working abroad have no permanent labor contract with media outlets, they are called stringers. Since they have no salary, stringers usually produce material for several different companies at once.\n\nA news agency is an organization of journalists established to supply news reports to news organizations: newspapers, magazines, and radio and television broadcasters. Such an agency may also be referred to as a wire service, newswire or news service. The bulk of major news agency services contains foreign news.\n\nThe major news agencies generally prepare hard news stories and feature articles that can be used by other news organizations with little or no modification, and then sell them to other news organizations. They provide these articles in bulk electronically through wire services (originally they used telegraphy; today they frequently use the Internet). Corporations, individuals, analysts and intelligence agencies may also subscribe.\n\n\n"}
