{"id": "54309069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54309069", "title": "1634 Valletta explosion", "text": "1634 Valletta explosion\n\nOn 12 September 1634, a Hospitaller gunpowder factory in Valletta, Malta accidentally blew up, killing 22 people and causing severe damage to a number of buildings. The factory had been built sometime in the late 16th or early 17th centuries, replacing an earlier one in Fort St. Angelo in Birgu. It was located in the lower part of Valletta, close to the Slaves' Prison.\n\nThe explosion damaged the nearby Jesuit church and college. The church's façade was rebuilt in around 1647 by the architect Francesco Buonamici, while the damaged parts of the college were also rebuilt after the explosion.\n\nThe gunpowder factory was not rebuilt. In around 1667, a new factory was constructed in Floriana, far away from any residential areas. This factory was incorporated into the Ospizio complex in the early 18th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "54353844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54353844", "title": "2010 Kiev Victory Day Parade", "text": "2010 Kiev Victory Day Parade\n\nThe 2010 Kiev Victory Day Parade was held on May 9, 2010 in Kiev, honoring the 65th anniversary of the Soviet Union's victory in the Great Patriotic War. (In 2015, the Ukrainian parliament replaced the term \"Great Patriotic War\" with \"Second World War\" as part of a set of decommunization laws.) Military vehicles, and soldiers in Soviet Army uniforms, marched on Khreschatyk Street. Inspecting the parade was the Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces General of the Army Ivan Svyda. The commander of the Ukrainian Ground Forces, Colonel General Gennady Vorobyov, Commandedg the Parade. The President of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovych delivered a jubilee address. 2,500 members of the Ukrainian Armed Forces troops from Russia and Belarus took part in the parade. 17 military orchestras took part in the parade under the command of the Chief of the Military Music Department of the General Staff of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, Major General Volodymyr Derkach.\n"}
{"id": "43914167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43914167", "title": "2014 Birbhum gang rape case", "text": "2014 Birbhum gang rape case\n\n2014 Birbhum gang rape case involves a gang rape which took place on 21 January 2014 in Birbhum district of West Bengal. When a 20-year-old tribal girl of Subolpur village was gang-raped by a group of people, as a punishment ordered by \"Salishi Sabha\", a village kangaroo court, for having affair with a boy of a different community.\n\nOn 19 September 2014, a district court found all 13 persons accused guilty and sentenced them to 20 years imprisonment, the minimum sentence under the section (376(D) of IPC.\n\nThe incident took place on 21 January 2014 at Subolpur (Subhalpur) village within Labhpur police station area in the tribal-dominated Birbhum district. Previously, on 20 January, \"summoned\" by the \"salishi sabha\", the victim and her boyfriend were caught, and detained through the day and night, they allegedly tied to a tree and also assaulted. Next, they were ordered by the kangaroo court to pay a Rs 50,000 fine. When the girl was unable to pay the fine, the gang rape was ordered.\n\nThe \"Salishi Sabha\", a kangaroo court was organised by the Gram Sabha, a village-level self-government institution, under the leadership of an elected Gram Panchayat leader. Sunil Soren, head of the \"salishi sabha\" also was involved in the rape.\n\nAfter the incident received international news coverage, especially as it came three days after, Madhyamgram rape and murder case made headlines, where a 16-year-old girl employee of a fitness centre was gang-raped twice in a moving vehicle in Kolkata, in October 2013. Thereafter her family were hounded out of their home and then she was set ablaze at their new residence.\n\nSoon, the Birbhum Superintendent of police C. Sudhakar was removed after the incident. The state governor, M. K. Narayanan called for a ban on such courts should be put down by all state governments.\n\nGovernment of West Bengal banned kangaroo courts, especially among the tribal-dominated areas. Though there were some demonstrations by tribal leaders who claimed they were part of their tradition and such moves would constitute interference in the community's ways of dispensing judgment. On 24 January 2014, the Supreme Court of India directed the District Judge of Birbhum to submit a report. Then, on 28 March, setting a judicial precedent, the Supreme Court in \"suo motu\" notice directed the West Bengal government to take \"concrete actions\" in the case.\n\nWhile the girl was admitted at the local hospital in Suri, Birbhum for medical examination and treatment, her family lodged a complaint with Labhpur police station on 22 January. Subsequently an FIR was registered, the police arrested 13 persons, including Balai Mardi (the oldest accused, age 58), Sunil Kisku allies Sunil Soren (35, the head of sabha), Chana Mardi (25), Madan Mardi (29), Suresh Mardi (22), Kartik Mardi (age 20), Jetha Tudu (21), Lalu Murmu (26), Balu Tudu (57), Ram Soren (20), Jotha Mardi (50), Babon Mardi (the youngest accused, age 19) and Debraj Mondal. One of the suspects was absconding, but was subsequently nabbed. However, when the police first raided the village to make arrest, a section of villagers opposed and additional personnel were called in.\n\nAs the public response grew, a four-member forensic team from Kolkata visited the village and the spot and collected samples for forensic test, and took statement from the villagers about the incident.\n\nOn 18 April 2014, investigating officer Partha Ghosh, filed a 416-page chargesheet in the case at before at Bolpur court naming the 13 accused. Thereafter in July, they were charged under sections 364(A) (kidnapping for ransom), 342 (wrongful confinement), 376(D) (gang rape), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of IPC, at Bolpur Court additional district and sessions judge, Siddhartha Roy Choudhury.\n\nOn 19 September 2014, additional district and sessions judge Siddhartha Roy Choudhury in his judgement found the accused guilty under 342 (wrongful confinement), 376(D) (gang rape) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of IPC and sentenced them to 20 years imprisonment.\n\n"}
{"id": "46232570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46232570", "title": "2015 Tanzania road accident", "text": "2015 Tanzania road accident\n\nThe 2015 Tanzania road accident occurred on 11 March 2015 when a bus and two lorries collided in Tanzania. At least 41 people died and another 23 were wounded. The accident took place in Iringa Region.\n\n"}
{"id": "37577893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37577893", "title": "2017 Asian Youth Games", "text": "2017 Asian Youth Games\n\nThe 2017 Asian Youth Games were to be an international multi-sport event. Initially planned to be hosted by the city of Hambantota, Sri Lanka, a new host for the 2017 AYG were to be decided at a future Olympic Council of Asia general assembly after Sri Lanka lost its hosting rights. It has now been decided to postpone until 2021 in Surabaya, Indonesia.\n\nHambantota decided on bidding for the games after losing the vote to stage the 2018 Commonwealth Games which were eventually awarded to the Gold Coast in Australia. On 15 June 2012 the president of the Olympic Council of Asia Ahmed Al-Fahad Al-Ahmed Al-Sabah announced that Hambantota had been chosen as the host of the games. Indonesia, Qatar, Thailand, the United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan also bid to stage the games but were ultimately unsuccessful.\n\nSri Lanka was stripped of its hosting rights by OCA due to political interference of its government with its national Olympic committee. Indonesia was offered by OCA to take over as hosts and the games were suggested test event for the 2018 Asian Games. Sri Lanka's replacement was set to be decided at an OCA general assembly scheduled in September 2015, but it has now been decided to postpone the event for 4 years as no replacement host city was found.\n"}
{"id": "7595441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7595441", "title": "A Brighter Summer Day", "text": "A Brighter Summer Day\n\nA Brighter Summer Day is a 1991 Taiwanese drama film directed by Edward Yang and is considered by most to be a masterpiece of contemporary cinema. The film is an extraordinarily large project for a Chinese-language film, not only for its duration of almost four hours, but also for its involvement of more than 100 amateur actors in different roles. The English title is derived from the lyrics of Elvis Presley's \"Are You Lonesome Tonight?\". The film was selected as the Taiwanese entry for the Best Foreign Language Film at the 64th Academy Awards but was not nominated.\n\nThe film addresses a great array of human-centred themes such as the eager search for guidance during adolescence, the angst resulting from social detachment, the everyday hardships of parenthood, the pursuit of a satisfying individual and collective identity together with the ennui and frustration prompted by failing to do so, the volatility of young love and friendships, the self-aggrandising tendencies commonplace in teenage-made myths, and, especially, the fatal and irreversible consequences of an aimless life and a bewildering upbringing. Edward Yang also tackles highly sensitive political issues like the rise of Western culture to the detriment of Taiwan's traditions, the wide-spreading of unrest and violence stirred by socio-political uneasiness, the strained coexistence among social classes trying to deal with an uncertain future, the consequent yearn of migrating towards an expectedly-better country, and the proliferation of self-ruled quasi-political organisations (in this case, youth gangs) as a way to substitute an unconvincing State.\n\nThe film takes place over the course of four years in Taiwan, and is about a student in junior high, Xiao Si'r. Xiao Si'r is the fourth child of a large family living in Taipei. The family lives modestly off of the father's government job, and it is clear that Si'r's mother and father are uncomfortable in Taiwan. The film opens in 1959, as Si'r's father fruitlessly pleads with a school administrator to keep Si'r in day school, as opposed to the night school, which is populated with delinquents. The morning after, Si'r and his father listen to the radio, which is broadcasting a list of students accepted into various schools in Taipei.\n\nThe film then advances to 1960, where Si'r, along with his best friend, Cat, is spying on the filming of a period drama in a movie studio. Caught by a guard in the rafters, they steal his flashlight and flee the studio, returning to their school. Si'r, noticing movement in a darkened classroom, turns on the flashlight and startles a pair of lovers, whose identities remain unclear. Si'r and Cat are blamed for smashing a window with a baseball bat that night, but defend themselves from accusations. Baseball bats are banned at the school as a result. The film then proceeds to introduce Si'r's classmates at his night school and peers, most notably two gangs of students, the Little Park Boys, the children of civil servants, and the 217s, the children of military officers. These two gangs are fierce rivals, often attacking one another. Si'r is not a member of either gang, although he is closer to the Little Park Boys than the 217's. The Little Park Boys are led by Honey, who is currently hiding from police. Sly leads the gang in his absence. Si'r tells the teachers he believes Sly was the boy he saw kissing a girl in the classroom; Sly and his girlfriend Jade get into trouble and a rivalry erupts between the two boys as a result. After Sly copies Si'r's test, both boys receive demerits. Si'r's father tells him not to take his principal's words to heart as he is not interested in the true aim of education - moral and intellectual betterment, but nonetheless warns his son to stay out of trouble.\n\nAlso introduced is Ming, a girl at Si'r's school who was the girlfriend of Honey. Her single mother works as a maid and suffers chronic asthma. Si'r and Ming meet and become friends, and Si'r develops a crush on her, who claims to be eagerly awaiting Honey. The director of the movie spots Ming with Si'r at the set and offers her a role in the film. She sits a screen test but does not pursue it further after a group of Little Park Boys see her with Si'r and intimidate him. At the same time, Sly proposes a truce between them and the 217s, and arranges for a concert of Western pop music to be held with members from both gangs. Cat, a budding singer, phonetically transcribes the lyrics of Elvis Presley's \"Are You Lonesome Tonight?,\" with the help of Si'r's eldest sister, who speaks English, and attempts to record a cover.\n\nPreparations for the concert appear to be going well until Honey, wearing the stolen uniform of a sailor as a disguise, unexpectedly resurfaces and berates Sly for setting up the concert, however he finds that the Little Park Boys no longer seem to respect him and show more loyalty to Sly. The night before the concert, Honey meets with Si'r, who he has taken a liking to, introduces him to the older gang of criminals he now belongs to, and explains the reasons for his disappearance. He had killed one of the 217s - supposedly over Ming - and fled to avoid arrest. Honey also \"bequeaths\" Ming to Si'r, believing Si'r to be stable.\n\nThe following night, the concert is performed. Honey appears outside of the concert hall, demanding to be let in for free and insulting the leaders of the gangs. He briefly attacks several gang members before being subdued by Shandong, the leader of the 217s, who agrees to talk to Honey. While walking along a road and discussing the concert, Shandong pushes Honey into the street where he is hit by a car. While the next morning's news reports call Honey's death an accident, it is clear to all of the gangs that Honey was murdered. Ming is initially devastated by Honey's death, but soon recovers, and begins to show interest in Si'r. Soon, a typhoon hits Taipei, and the Little Park Boys massacre the 217's in the midst of the storm. Si'r finds them butchered. On that same night, Si'r's father is arrested by the secret police. He is forced to leave his home without understanding why he has been arrested. Sly and the surviving Little Park Boys go into hiding. Si'r's friend Ma, the son of a rich general, invites him on a double-date with Jade (who he is courting) and her friend; Si'r goes but is uninterested in the girl.\n\nThe focus of the film briefly shifts to Si'r's father. He has been arrested because of his former (non-political) associations with Communists in mainland China. He is initially subject to sleep deprivation and then other forms of exhaustion, though he cannot remember critical details about these figures or his friendships with them. After several days, the officials in charge of Si'r's father decide that he poses no threat and order his release. He is relieved to be home, although he is fired as a result of the arrest.\n\nSi'r, meanwhile, has begun a relationship with Ming, and seems to be improving academically. However, she reveals to him that she flirts with other boys, including an adult doctor who treats her mother, and this disturbs Si'r. Ming visits the doctor who reveals he is now engaged; Ming dislikes his fiancée but he does not take her views seriously, believing her to be naive. Si'r and Ming are play fighting with weapons at Ma's house when Ming accidentally fires a bullet at Si'r, leaving him stunned in shock. The next day Si'r is sent to see the school doctor (the same one flirting with Ming). The school nurse berates Si'r for chasing girls, causing Si'r to swear at her. He is once again sent to the principal's office and receives another demerit. As Si'r's father and the administrator argue over Si'r's qualities as a student, Si'r grabs a baseball bat (the school had earlier decreed that it would confiscate all baseball bats on school grounds) and shatters a lightbulb. This act gets him expelled from school, and, along with his father's arrest, earns him the distrust of his fellow students.\n\nSi'r studies to re-take the entrance exams for his school, and aims to become reinstated in the day school, something that brings pride to his father, but upsets Ming, who will see him less as a result. Sly emerges from hiding and apologises to Si'r. Ming's mother is fired by her old employer but goes to work for Ma's parents. The two grow closer and flirt, which upsets Si'r. He begins dating Jade, but it does not work out. She bitterly reveals to him that the girl he saw kissing Sly was Ming, not her. He returns home only to see his father beating his older brother, who took the blame for losing his mother's watch, which was actually Si'r's fault. That night, his sister asks him to convert to Christianity, but he tells her he cannot believe for all the suffering and injustice in the world.\n\nThe next day, Si'r is meant to visit the local church with his sister, but instead goes to Ma's and threatens him. Cat attempts to keep the peace to no avail. Si'r visits the film studio and berates the director for his interest in Ming's acting abilities. He then steals Cat's knife and waits outside the school for Ma. Instead, he sees Ming, and berates her for her promiscuity, saying that only he and Honey had the ability to change her. She rejects this, saying that she is unchangeable just like the world is unchangeable, and says he does not understand her and is like the rest of the boys. He stabs her in a fit of rage and misery, and immediately after fails to recognize what he has just done, pleading with her to stand up as she bleeds to death.\n\nSi'r is arrested and held at the police station. Ma is brought in for questioning and cries to himself, having lost his only friend. Si'r becomes hysterical and begins screaming for Ming. Ming's mother attempts suicide but survives. The next day, journalists arrive at her house and question the doctor. After they ask if he was having an affair with Ming, he angrily kicks them out.\n\nSi'r is sentenced to death, but the media controversy around the case provokes the sentence to be changed to 15 years imprisonment. Two years into his sentence, Cat delivers him a tape in which he explains he sent his recording to Elvis, who wrote back and sent him a ring. The prison wardens tell Cat they will deliver the tape, but instead throw it away.\n\nThe final scene is set in Si'r's house, now almost devoid of furniture. Si'r's mother is hanging up clothes to dry when she unexpectedly finds Si'r's school uniform. As she sobs into it, the radio starts to broadcast another list of distinguished students.\n\n\nSet in early 1960s, in Taipei, the film is based on a real incident that the director remembers from his school days when he was 13. The original Chinese title, , translates literally as \"The Homicide Incident of the Youth on Guling Street\", referring to the 14-year-old son of a civil servant who murders his girlfriend, who was also involved with a teenaged gang leader, for unclear reasons. The gang leader and girlfriend are involved in the conflict between gangs of children of formerly-mainland families and those of Taiwanese families. The film places the murder incident in the context of the political environment in Taiwan at that time. The film's political background is introduced in intertitles thus:\nChang Kuo-Chu, and his son Chang Chen (in his debut) are both cast in this film playing father and son.\n\nThe film received much critical acclaim and was awarded several wins in Golden Horse Film Festival, Asia Pacific Film Festival, Kinema Junpo Awards and Tokyo International Film Festival. Three different versions of the film were edited: the original 237 minute version, a three-hour version and a shorter 127 minute version.\n\n\"A Brighter Summer Day\" is ranked number 127 in the prestigious list \"They Shoot Pictures, Don't They?\". Additionally, according to \"They Shoot Pictures, Don't They?\", \"A Brighter Summer Day\" is the most acclaimed film of 1991.\n\nAccording to film critic Godfrey Cheshire, the film has \"two faces, just as it has two titles\" due to the sudden change of plots the film experiences halfway its running time. \"A Brighter Summer Day\" notoriously shifts from a fraught, violent story about teenage gangs to a more introspective and family-oriented movie where the main character passively witness how his father is accused of espionage, his brother is in huge debt and his mother suffers in silence. Cheshire explains this transition of \"faces\" as it follows:\nIn 2009, the World Cinema Foundation issued a restoration of \"A Brighter Summer Day\", using the original 35mm camera and sound negatives provided by the Edward Yang Estate.\n\nOn December 17, 2015, The Criterion Collection announced the official North American DVD and Blu-ray release of a new 4K digital restoration of the film in its original running time. This release marks the first time \"A Brighter Summer Day\" is released on home video in the United States, after more than two decades of obscurity due to difficulty in finding an official copy of the film. The release includes a new English subtitle translation, an audio commentary featuring critic Tony Rayns, an interview with actor Chang Chen; \"Our Time, Our Story\", a 117-minute documentary from 2002 about the New Taiwan Cinema movement, featuring interviews with Yang and film-makers Hou Hsiao-hsien and Tsai Ming-liang, among others; a videotaped performance of director Edward Yang’s 1992 play \"Likely Consequence\"; an essay by critic Godfrey Cheshire, and a 1991 director’s statement by Yang.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40689028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40689028", "title": "Abyad wa Aswad", "text": "Abyad wa Aswad\n\nAbyad wa Aswad (\"Black and White\" in English) is an Arabic independent weekly political culture magazine published in Damascus, Syria. The magazine is privately owned.\n\n\"Abyad wa Aswad\" was established in early 2001. Publication license was granted in 2002, being the first independent political weekly in Syria. The first issue appeared on 22 July 2002. The magazine, headquartered in Damascus, is a privately owned publication. Bilal Turkmani, former defense minister Hasan Turkmani's son, is the owner of \"Abyad wa Aswad\". \n\nThe magazine adopts a critical attitude towards the activities of the Syrian government and contains reform-oriented articles. For instance, the magazine criticized the Syrian foreign ministry in 2003 for not attending the special session of the UN Security Council during which UN Security Council resolution 1483 that was about ending the sanctions against Iraq had been voted. It further argued that both the foreign ministry and other governmental bodies had no dynamism and flexibility.\n"}
{"id": "3563273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3563273", "title": "Alan Conway", "text": "Alan Conway\n\nAlan Conway (1934 – 5 December 1998) was an English conman, best known for impersonating film director Stanley Kubrick. Conway and his wife were travel agents with offices in Harrow, Muswell Hill and London.\n\nAlan Conway was born Eddie Alan Jablowsky in Whitechapel London in 1934. At the age of 13 he was sent to a borstal for theft. Around this time, he began frequently changing his name and inventing personal histories. Among other stories, he told people he was a Polish Jew who had been imprisoned in a Nazi concentration camp.\n\nDuring the 1980s, Conway (who was homosexual) left his wife for a male lover who later died of AIDS. Conway's business soon collapsed and he descended into alcoholism.\n\nConway's impersonations of director Stanley Kubrick occurred during the early 1990s, by which time Kubrick had been withdrawn from public view for about 15 years. Kubrick had also worn a beard since the late 1960s and Conway was clean-shaven, allowing his impersonation to appear more legitimate. He convinced several figures in the entertainment industry that he was the famed director, promising them both roles in films and exclusive interviews. On occasion, he conned others into paying for meals, claiming his studio would reimburse them.\n\nFrank Rich, a theatre critic for \"The New York Times\", was taken in by Conway's act in Joe Allen's restaurant when he invited Conway and his friends to join him at his table. Rich was so convinced by Conway's act that he later said that he thought Stanley Kubrick was homosexual after meeting Conway. Rich and his journalist friends were excited at the prospect of an exclusive interview with \"Stanley Kubrick\", only later discovering that he was, in fact, an impostor after contacting executives at Warner Brothers who were aware of the scam but had been unable to identify the imposter. \n\nKubrick's lawyer was apprised of the scam and, when he informed Kubrick of the impostor, Kubrick was said to be fascinated by the idea. Kubrick's wife, Christiane, was less impressed with it. As she later reflected: \"It was an absolute nightmare. This strange doppelgänger who was pretending to be Stanley. Can you imagine the horror?\"\n\nConway was tracked down in part through the efforts of Kubrick's personal assistant Anthony Frewin, who went on to write the screenplay for the 2006 film \"Colour Me Kubrick\" based on these incidents, with John Malkovich starring as Conway.\n\nConway died in December 1998 of a heart attack three months before Kubrick's death, also from a heart attack, in March 1999.\n\n"}
{"id": "3474648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3474648", "title": "AllAdvantage", "text": "AllAdvantage\n\nAllAdvantage was an Internet advertising company that positioned itself as the world’s first \"infomediary\" by paying its users/members a portion of the advertising revenue generated by their online viewing habits. It became most well known for its slogan \"Get Paid to Surf the Web,\" a phrase that has since become synonymous with a wide array of online ad revenue sharing systems (see, e.g., paid to surf).\n\nAllAdvantage was launched on March 31, 1999, by Jim Jorgensen, Johannes Pohle, Carl Anderson, and Oliver Brock. During its nearly 2 years of operation, it raised nearly $200 Million in venture capital and grew to more than 10 million members in its first 18 months of operation. The company's practice of compensating existing members for referring new members led it to become one of the most heavily promoted websites of its time. That popularity was reflected in the ranking of AllAdvantage.com among the top 20 of many website traffic indices during most of the company's existence, including Nielsen/NetRatings. That method of promotion also led the company to be heavily criticized for its early inability to prevent its members from spamming for referrals in order to collect additional income. It eventually overcame many of those problems and company executives were deeply involved in anti-spam legislative proposals, including the first anti-spam bill to pass the US House of Representatives.\n\nAllAdvantage ultimately fell victim to the sharp decline in advertising spending as the dot-com bubble burst and the U.S. economy entered a recessionary period in mid-2000. AllAdvantage planned an initial public offering of stock in early 2000, underwritten by investment banker Frank Quattrone of the firm Credit Suisse First Boston. As the IPO market continued to sour through mid-2000, the offering plans were cancelled. The company continued to seek new sources of revenue and expanded its offerings to include sweepstakes. The company finally halted consumer-facing operations in February 2001. By the time it closed its doors, the company had paid out over $160 million to its members.\n\nAllAdvantage contributed several enduring concepts to the online marketplace. For example, AllAdvantage was one of the first implementations of the infomediary concept to reach a mass market. The concept of the infomediary was first suggested by McKinsey consultants and professors John Hagel, III, and Marc Singer in their book \"NetWorth\". (Hagel and Singer eventually became informal advisers to the company.)\n\nThe company's Viewbar software was one of the earliest desktop user tracking and ad targeting technologies. The Viewbar displayed advertisements in a narrow application window that could be docked to the top or bottom of the user's screen, targeting those advertisements to the content being viewed by the user as they browsed websites. The same technologies, minus the permission of users or monetary compensation, became the basis of the adware and spyware industries.\n\nThe company also appointed the world's first corporate Chief Privacy Officer, creating the role as a senior level executive responsible for protecting the privacy and security of user data and managing a variety of risks and threats to the integrity of the service. The company appointed privacy lawyer Ray Everett-Church to the newly created position in August 1999, sparking a trend that quickly spread among major corporations, both offline and online. By 2001, the non-profit research organization Privacy and American Business reported that a significant number of Fortune 500 firms had appointed senior executives with the title or role of Chief Privacy Officer. By 2008, the International Association of Privacy Professionals boasted that it had more than 5000 privacy officers or other privacy executives as members.\n\nAllAdvantage is perhaps most remembered for its successful adaptation of the \"viral marketing\" concept, a term first coined by the venture capital firm Draper Fisher Jurvetson. In viral marketing, members of the service promote it to their friends and acquaintances, which AllAdvantage enhanced by adding a compensation component, rewarding users for the number of members they successfully referred. In a May 2000 article for \"Red Herring\" magazine, Steve Jurvetson cited AllAdvantage as a prime example of viral marketing success.\n\nIn a recent article, a former AllAdvantage executive also noted that, although the company didn't survive, the behavioral marketing approach pioneered by the company remains an important component of many businesses in the online marketing and advertising space.\n\nMany early AllAdvantage users attempted to utilize spamming techniques to artificially build up their referral numbers. In the first months following the company's launch, email service providers and anti-spam services identified emails referencing AllAdvantage as spam, resulting in widespread blocking. Shortly after hiring an anti-spam expert as the company's Chief Privacy Officer, the company implemented significant changes in its affiliate promotion and referral policies, including a system to enable quicker reporting and termination of spamming accounts. By 2000, the reported volumes of AllAdvantage-related spam had reduced significantly.\n\nAllAdvantage was also the target of other fraudulent activities, such as attempts to simulate surfing in order to accrue credit. These techniques were based upon the manner in which the AllAdvantage \"Viewbar\" tracked the time that users actively spent browsing the web, through the detection of which applications were \"in focus\" as well as keyboard and mouse movements. In an attempt to defraud the company, several client-side applications were created that attempted to simulate surfing-related interactivity, including \"MyAdvantage\" and \"AllMouse.\" Initially, such applications were successful at simulating a user's 20 hours of surfing, however those applications were limited in their negative impact on the company for several reasons: their usage was limited to relatively few \"hacker hobbyists\"; fraudulent users received no direct compensation beyond the established minimum surfing time while the company received advertising revenues based on average surfing times of the entire user base. The AllAdvantage software was frequently updated with detection algorithms derived from analysis of many of the simulators and was able to flag \"suspect\" surfing accounts for withholding of any payments while giving users the appearance of still accumulating their fraudulent hours.\n\nOn 20 November 2006, it was reported that several AllAdvantage founders were reincarnating the business as a new (now defunct) company, AGLOCO (which stands for \"A Global Community\").\n\n"}
{"id": "234687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234687", "title": "Battle of Mycale", "text": "Battle of Mycale\n\nThe Battle of Mycale (; \"Machē tēs Mykalēs\") was one of the two major battles that ended the second Persian invasion of Greece during the Greco-Persian Wars. It took place on or about August 27, 479 BC on the slopes of Mount Mycale, on the coast of Ionia, opposite the island of Samos. The battle was fought between an alliance of the Greek city-states, including Sparta, Athens and Corinth, and the Persian Empire of Xerxes I.\n\nThe previous year, the Persian invasion force, led by Xerxes himself, had scored victories at the battles of Thermopylae and Artemisium, and conquered Thessaly, Boeotia and Attica; however, at the ensuing Battle of Salamis, the allied Greek navies had won an unlikely victory, and therefore prevented the conquest of the Peloponnese. Xerxes then retreated, leaving his general Mardonius with a substantial army to finish off the Greeks the following year.\n\nIn the summer of 479 BC, the Greeks assembled a huge army (by contemporary standards), and marched to confront Mardonius at the Battle of Plataea. At the same time, the allied fleet sailed to Samos, where the demoralised remnants of the Persian navy were based. The Persians, seeking to avoid a battle, beached their fleet below the slopes of Mycale, and, with the support of a Persian army group, built a palisaded camp. The Greek commander Leotychides decided to attack the Persians anyway, landing the fleet's complement of marines to do so.\n\nAlthough the Persian forces put up stout resistance, the heavily armoured Greek hoplites again proved themselves superior in combat, and eventually routed the Persian troops, who fled to their camp. The Ionian Greek contingents in the Persian army defected, and the camp was assailed and a large number of Persians slaughtered. The Persian ships were then captured and burned. The complete destruction of the Persian navy, along with the destruction of Mardonius's army at Plataea (allegedly on the same day as the Battle of Mycale), decisively ended the invasion of Greece. After Plataea and Mycale, the allied Greeks would take the offensive against the Persians, marking a new phase of the Greco-Persian Wars. Although Mycale was in every sense a decisive victory, it does not seem to have been attributed the same significance (even at the time) as, for example the Athenian victory at the Battle of Marathon or even the Greek defeat at Thermopylae.\n\nThe main source for the Greco-Persian Wars is the Greek historian Herodotus. Herodotus, who has been called the 'Father of History', was born in 484 BC in Halicarnassus, Asia Minor (then under Persian overlordship). He wrote his 'Enquiries' (Greek—\"Historia\"; English—\"(The) Histories\") around 440–430 BC, trying to trace the origins of the Greco-Persian Wars, which would still have been relatively recent history (the wars finally ending in 450 BC). Herodotus's approach was entirely novel, and at least in Western society, he does seem to have invented 'history' as we know it. As Holland has it: \"For the first time, a chronicler set himself to trace the origins of a conflict not to a past so remote so as to be utterly fabulous, nor to the whims and wishes of some god, nor to a people's claim to manifest destiny, but rather explanations he could verify personally.\"\n\nSome subsequent ancient historians, despite following in his footsteps, criticised Herodotus, starting with Thucydides. Nevertheless, Thucydides chose to begin his history where Herodotus left off (at the Siege of Sestos), and therefore evidently felt that Herodotus's history was accurate enough not to need re-writing or correcting. Plutarch criticised Herodotus in his essay \"On The Malignity of Herodotus\", describing Herodotus as \"Philobarbaros\" (barbarian-lover), for not being pro-Greek enough, which suggests that Herodotus might actually have done a reasonable job of being even-handed. A negative view of Herodotus was passed on to Renaissance Europe, though he remained well read. However, since the 19th century his reputation has been dramatically rehabilitated by archaeological finds which have repeatedly confirmed his version of events. The prevailing modern view is that Herodotus generally did a remarkable job in his \"Historia\", but that some of his specific details (particularly troop numbers and dates) should be viewed with skepticism. Nevertheless, there are still some historians who believe Herodotus made up much of his story.\n\nThe Sicilian historian Diodorus Siculus, writing in the 1st century BC in his \"Bibliotheca Historica\", also provides an account of the Battle of Mykale, derived directly from the earlier Greek historian Ephorus. This account is fairly consistent with Herodotus's. Archaeological evidence, such as the Serpent Column, also supports some of Herodotus's specific claims.\n\nThe Greek city-states of Athens and Eretria had supported the unsuccessful Ionian Revolt against the Persian Empire of Darius I in 499-494 BC. The Persian Empire was still relatively young, and prone to revolts amongst its subject peoples. Moreover, Darius was a usurper, and had spent considerable time extinguishing revolts against his rule. The Ionian revolt threatened the integrity of his empire, and Darius thus vowed to punish those involved (especially those not already part of the empire). Darius also saw the opportunity to expand his empire into the fractious world of Ancient Greece. A preliminary expedition under Mardonius, in 492 BC, to secure the land approaches to Greece ended with the re-conquest of Thrace and forced Macedon to become a client kingdom of Persia. An amphibious task force was then sent out under Datis and Artaphernes in 490 BC, successfully sacking Naxos and Eretria, before moving to attack Athens. However, at the ensuing Battle of Marathon, the Athenians won a remarkable victory, which resulted in the withdrawal of the Persian army to Asia.\n\nDarius therefore began raising a huge new army with which he meant to completely subjugate Greece. However, he died before the invasion could begin. The throne of Persia passed to his son Xerxes I, who quickly resumed the preparations for the invasion of Greece, including building two pontoon bridges across the Hellespont. In 481 BC, Xerxes sent ambassadors around Greece asking for earth and water as a gesture of their submission, but making the very deliberate omission of Athens and Sparta (both of whom were at open war with Persia). Support thus began to coalesce around these two leading states. A congress of city states met at Corinth in late autumn of 481 BC, and a confederate alliance of Greek city-states was formed (hereafter referred to as 'the Allies'). This was remarkable for the disjointed Greek world, especially since many of the city-states in attendance were still technically at war with each other.\n\nThe Allies initially adopted a strategy of blocking the land and sea approaches to southern Greece. Thus, in August 480 BC, after hearing of Xerxes's approach, a small Allied army led by the Spartan king Leonidas I blocked the Pass of Thermopylae, whilst an Athenian-dominated navy sailed to the Straits of Artemisium. Famously, the vastly outnumbered Greek army held Thermopylae against the Persians army for six days in total, before being outflanked by a mountain path. Although much of the Greek army retreated, the rearguard, formed of the Spartan and Thespian contingents, was surrounded and annihilated. The simultaneous Battle of Artemisium, consisting of a series of naval encounters, was up to that point a stalemate; however, when news of Thermopylae reached them, they also retreated, since holding the straits of Artemisium was now a moot point.\n\nFollowing Thermopylae, the Persian army had proceeded to burn and sack the Boeotian cities which had not surrendered, Plataea and Thespiae, before taking possession of the now-evacuated city of Athens. The allied army, meanwhile, prepared to defend the Isthmus of Corinth. Xerxes wished for a final crushing defeat of the Allies to finish the conquest of Greece in that campaigning season; conversely the allies sought a decisive victory over the Persian navy that would guarantee the security of the Peloponnese. The ensuing naval Battle of Salamis ended in a decisive victory for the Allies, marking a turning point in the conflict.\n\nFollowing the defeat of his navy at the Salamis, Xerxes retreated to Asia with, according to Herodotus at least, the majority of the army. Herodotus suggests that this was because he feared the Greeks would sail to the Hellespont and destroy the pontoon bridges, thereby trapping his army in Europe. He thus left Mardonius, with handpicked troops, to complete the conquest of Greece the following year. Mardonius evacuated Attica, and wintered in Thessaly; the Athenians then reoccupied their destroyed city. Over the winter, there seems to have been some tension among the Allies. In particular, the Athenians, who were not protected by the Isthmus, but whose fleet were the key to the security of the Peloponnese, felt hard done by, and demanded an allied army march north the following year. When the Allies failed to commit to this, the Athenian fleet refused to join the Allied navy in spring. The navy, now under the command of the Spartan king Leotychides, thus skulked off Delos, whilst the remnants of the Persian fleet skulked off Samos, both sides unwilling to risk battle. Similarly, Mardonius remained in Thessaly, knowing an attack on the Isthmus was pointless, whilst the Allies refused to send an army outside the Peloponnese.\n\nMardonius moved to break the stalemate by trying to win over the Athenians and their fleet through the mediation of Alexander I of Macedon, offering peace, self-government and territorial expansion. The Athenians made sure that a Spartan delegation was also on hand to hear the offer, and rejected it: \"The degree to which we are put in the shadow by the Medes' strength is hardly something you need to bring to our attention. We are already well aware of it. But even so, such is our love of liberty, that we will never surrender.\" Upon this refusal, the Persians marched south again. Athens was again evacuated and left to the Persians. Mardonius now repeated his offer of peace to the Athenian refugees on Salamis. Athens, along with Megara and Plataea, sent emissaries to Sparta demanding assistance, and threatening to accept the Persian terms if not. According to Herodotus, the Spartans, who were at that time celebrating the festival of Hyacinthus, delayed making a decision until they were persuaded by a guest, Chileos of Tegea, who pointed out the danger to all of Greece if the Athenians surrendered. When the Athenian emissaries delivered an ultimatum to the Spartans the next day, they were amazed to hear that a task force was in fact already \"en route\"; the Spartan army was marching to meet the Persians.\n\nIn response, the Athenian navy under Xanthippus joined with the Allied fleet off Delos. They were then approached by a delegation from Samos, who suggested that the Ionian cities would revolt if the Allied fleet successfully engaged the Persian fleet. They furthermore pointed out the poor morale and reduced seaworthiness of the Persian fleet. Leotychides decided to attempt this, and sailed for Samos.\n\nWhen the Persians heard that the Allied fleet was approaching, they set sail from Samos towards the Ionian mainland. According to Herodotus, this was because they had decided in council that they could not beat the Allies in a naval battle. They sent the Phoenician ships away (Herodotus does not explain why), and then sailed to the shore near Mount Mycale. Xerxes had left an army there, under the command of Tigranes, to guard Ionia. The Persians beached their ships, built a palisade around them, and prepared to guard the makeshift fort.\n\nFinding the Persian fleet gone from Samos, the Allies were thrown into uncertainty. Eventually they resolved that they would sail to the mainland, and equipped themselves for a naval battle. However, when the Allies approached Mycale, the Persians did not attempt to engage them, and remained guarding their camp. Leotychides therefore sailed as close to the camp as possible, and had a herald make an appeal to the Ionians: \"Men of Ionia, you who hear us, understand what I say, for by no means will the Persians understand anything I charge you with when we join battle; first of all it is right for each man to remember his freedom and next the battle-cry \"Hebe\": and let him who hears me tell him who has not heard it.\" Herodotus suggests that the purpose of this message was twofold; firstly to encourage the Ionians, unbeknownst to the Persians, to fight for the Allies (or at least not to fight against them); or, if the message became known to the Persians, to make the Persians mistrust the Ionians.\n\nFollowing this appeal, the Allies also beached their ships, and began to prepare to assault the camp. The Persians, guessing that their Samian contingent would support the allies, took away their armour. Furthermore, they sent the Milesians to guard the passes over Mycale, suspecting that the Milesians might also defect. Thus rid of two potential internal threats, the Persians left their camp, and prepared for battle. It is probable that the relatively small number of marines that the Allies had disembarked for the battle made them overconfident, encouraging the Persians to leave the safety of their camp.\n\nHerodotus reports that as the Allies approached the Persian camp, rumour spread amongst them of an Allied victory at Plataea; Diodorus also claims that Leotychides informed the Allies of victory at Plataea before the battle began. Their morale boosted by this omen, they set forth to win their own victory. Various explanations have been attempted to explain this occurrence, and also the alleged fact that Plataea and Mycale took place on the same day. Green suggests that following the victory at Plataea, the Allied commander Pausanias took control of the Persian beacon system that Xerxes had used to communicate with Asia, and used it to send tidings of Plataea to the Allied fleet. This would explain the rumour of victory and near simultaneous attack, but is only one possible theory.\n\nThe number of Persian ships and men involved with the battle is, as so often in the Greco-Persian Wars, somewhat problematic. It is clear that the Persian fleet did not dare conduct operations against the Greeks, and thus must have been approximately equal to, or smaller than the Greek fleet. Herodotus gives the size of the Persian fleet at 300 ships; the Greeks had 378 at Salamis, but must have suffered significant losses, and so they probably also had around 300 in total (though not necessarily all these ships formed part of the allied fleet for 479 BC). The Phoenician ships were dismissed from the Persian fleet before the battle, which reduced its strength further.\n\nDiodorus tells us that to guard the camp and the ships the Persians gathered 100,000 men in total,\nwhile Herodotus suggests that there were 60,000 men in the army under the command of Tigranes. Squaring these two accounts, might suggest that there were c. 40,000 men with the fleet. Given that the Persian fleet appears to have been undermanned in the aftermath of Salamis, 200-300 ships would indeed give this number of naval personnel (using Herodotus's standard complement of 200 men per ship). However, this total of 100,000 is probably too high; to accommodate 100,000 men and 200+ ships, the Persian camp would have to have been enormous. Estimates made of Mardonius's huge camp at Plataea, which was planned and built with plenty of time, suggest it might have accommodated 70,000-120,000 men; it is improbable that such a large camp could have been built at Mycale in the time-frame that Herodotus suggests. It is therefore possible that the 60,000 quoted by Herodotus is actually the total number of Persians present at Mycale; the Persians certainly outnumbered the Allies, emerging from the palisade in confidence after seeing the smaller number of the Allied troops.\n\nNumbers of ships and men for the Allies are also somewhat problematic. Herodotus claims that Leotychides had 110 triremes under his command. However, the previous year, the allies had fielded 271 triremes at the Battle of Artemisium, and then 378 at the Battle of Salamis. We are also told that the Allies had \"command of the sea\" after Salamis, which implies that they could at least equal the Persian fleet. Diodorus, on the other hand, tells us the allies had 250 ships, which is more consistent with their force levels of the previous year. These two numbers can be reconciled by assuming that Leotychides had 110 triremes under his command \"before\" being joined by Xanthippus and the Athenian ships, after the Allied army had marched out from the Peloponnesus. This is the approach taken by Holland, and gives a naval force which might well match the remnants of the Persian fleet.\n\nAlthough the Athenians had sent 8,000 hoplites to Plataea, they would still have had ample manpower to man a large fleet of triremes, especially since rowers tended to be of the lower classes (the \"thetes\") who could not afford the equipment to fight as hoplites. The standard complement of a trireme was 200 men, including 14 marines. In the second Persian invasion of Greece, each Persian ship had carried thirty extra marines, and this was probably also true in the first invasion when the whole invasion force was apparently carried in triremes. Furthermore, the Chian ships at the Battle of Lade also carried 40 marines each. This suggests that a trireme could probably carry a maximum of 40–45 soldiers—triremes seem to have been easily destabilised by extra weight. Combining these numbers yields a range of 22,000–58,000 men for the Allies, with 3,300–11,250 more heavily armoured marines. Estimates of around 40,000 men are given in some sources, which is approximately the median of the possible range, and seems as likely a number as any. However, since only the marines were expected to fight hand to hand, the rowers in the Allied fleet were probably not equipped to fight in a land battle; it is likely therefore that it was only the marines who contested the battle.\n\nFrom a strategic point of view, battle was not necessary for either side; the main strategic theatre was mainland Greece itself. Although destroying the enemy navy would result in a clear strategic advantage for both sides, attempting this risked the loss of their own navy. The actions of the two sides thus reflect more upon their morale and confidence than on any strategic considerations. The Persians, seeing little to gain in battle, demoralised and riven with dissent, thus sought to avoid a naval battle. Conversely, the Allies, who had initially been as nervous of a battle as the Persians, sought to press home their morale advantage once they were informed of the state of the Persian fleet.\n\nTactically, the Persian fleet should have held the advantage at sea, since the Athenian part of the Greek fleet was, despite their efforts at Artemisium and Salamis, still raw in seamanship. However, whether because of their low morale, or because they were in fact outnumbered, the Persians sought instead the tactical advantage of joining up with the army under Tigranes, and fortifying a position. However, when the Greeks chose to fight on land, the Persians then threw away the advantage of their fortifications by emerging to fight the Greeks in the open field. Furthermore, as Marathon and Thermopylae had shown, large numbers conferred little advantage against the more heavily armoured hoplites; thus, as the battle began, it was the Greeks who had the tactical upper hand.\n\nThe Allies seem to have formed into two wings; on the right were the Athenians, Corinthians, Sicyonians and Troezenians, and on the left were the Spartans with other contingents. The right wing marched across level ground straight towards the Persian camp, whilst the left wing attempted to outflank the Persians by passing through more broken ground. The right wing thus began fighting with the Persians while the left wing was still approaching. Herodotus reports that the Persians fought well at first, but that the Athenians and the contingents with them wished to win the victory before the Spartans arrived, and thus attacked ever more zealously.\n\nAlthough the Persians stood their ground for a while, they eventually broke and fled to the palisade. The soldiers of the right wing followed them into the camp, at which point many of the Persian army fled from the camp, except the ethnic Persian troops, who grouped together and fought the Allied soldiers who entered the camp. Finally, the left wing arrived, outflanking the camp and falling on the rear of the remaining Persian forces, thereby completing the rout.\n\nHerodotus tells us that, on seeing the outcome of the battle hung in the balance, the disarmed Samians had joined in on the side of the allies, doing what they could. This inspired the other Ionian contingents to turn on the Persians as well. At which stage in the battle this happened is not clear; the Samians were presumably not in the main battle line (being disarmed), so it may have been after the Persians retreated to the camp. Meanwhile, the Milesians who were guarding the passes of Mycale also turned on the Persians. At first they misdirected the fleeing Persian contingents so that they ended up back amongst the Allied troops; then, perhaps seeing the outcome of the battle was certain, they began killing the fleeing Persians.\n\nHerodotus does not mention specific figures for casualties, merely saying that losses were heavy on both sides. The Sicyonians in particular suffered, also losing their general Perilaus. On the Persian side, the admiral Mardontes and the general Tigranes were both killed, though Artayntes escaped. Herodotus says that a few Persians troops escaped the battle and made their way to Sardis. Diodorus claims that there were 40,000 Persian casualties, and also suggests that the survivors made their way to Sardis.\n\nWhen the Spartans arrived, the Persian camp was looted and their beached ships destroyed. Returning to Samos they then discussed their next moves. Leotychides proposed that they evacuate the cities of the Ionian Greeks and bring the population to the Greek mainland, since it would be difficult to defend Ionia against further Persian attacks. Xanthippus however vehemently objected to this, since the Ionian cities were originally Greek colonies. The Ionian Greeks later joined the Athenians in the \"Delian League\" against Persia.\n\nWith the twin victories of Plataea and Mycale, the second Persian invasion of Greece was over. Moreover, the threat of a future invasion was abated; although the Greeks remained worried that Xerxes would try again, over time it became apparent that the Persian desire to conquer Greece was much diminished.\n\nAfter the victory at Mycale, the Allied fleet sailed to the Hellespont to break down the pontoon bridges, but found that this was already done. The Peloponnesians sailed home, but the Athenians remained to attack the Chersonesos, still held by the Persians. The Persians in the region, and their allies, made for Sestos, the strongest town in the region, and the Athenians laid siege to them there. After a protracted siege, Sestos fell to the Athenians, marking the beginning of a new phase in the Greco-Persian Wars, the Greek counterattack. Herodotus ended his \"Histories\" after the Siege of Sestos. Over the next 30 years, the Greeks, primarily the Athenian-dominated Delian League, would expel (or help expel) the Persians from Macedon, Thrace, the Aegean islands and Ionia. Peace with Persia finally came in 449 BC with the Peace of Callias, finally ending the half-century of warfare.\n\nMycale and Plataea have great significance in ancient history as the battles which decisively ended the second Persian invasion of Greece, thereby swinging the balance of the Greco-Persian Wars in favour of the Greeks. The Battle of Salamis saved Greece from immediate conquest, but it was Mycale and Plataea which effectively ended that threat. However, neither of these battles is as well known as Thermopylae, Salamis or Marathon. The reason for this discrepancy is not entirely clear; it might however be a result of the circumstances in which the battle was fought. The fame of Thermopylae certainly lies in the doomed heroism of the Greeks in the face of overwhelming numbers; Marathon and Salamis perhaps because they were both fought against the odds, and in dire strategic situations. Conversely, the Battles of Plataea and Mycale were both fought from a relative position of Greek strength, and against lesser odds; perhaps the Greeks were even expecting to win and had certainly seen the opportunity to deal the final blow.\n\nMilitarily, the major lesson of both Mycale and Plataea (since both were fought on land) was the repeated confirmation of the superiority of the hoplite over the more lightly armed Persian infantry, as had first been demonstrated at Marathon. Taking on this lesson, after the Greco-Persian Wars the Persian empire started recruiting and relying on Greek mercenaries. This was amply illustrated later on by the Ten Thousand and Xenophon.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9482610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9482610", "title": "Bill Stepien", "text": "Bill Stepien\n\nBill Stepien (born 1978) is the current White House political director. Stepien managed both of Chris Christie's gubernatorial campaigns and served as his Deputy Chief of Staff before being fired in 2014 after Christie said he \"lost confidence\" in Stepien's judgment. \n\nAfter Donald Trump secured the Republican nomination, he joined the presidential campaign in August 2016 and was later named the White House political director during the Trump presidential transition.\n\nStepien began his political career working on Anthony Bucco's 1997 State Senate campaign, and on Bob Franks' 2000 U.S. Senate race. He worked for Public Opinion Strategies and DuHaime Communications before managing Bill Baroni's 2003 bid for New Jersey State Assembly—the only Republican to oust a Democratic incumbent that year, and one of PolitickerNJ.com's Best Campaigns of the Year.\n\nStepien served as Political Director of the 2004 Bush/Cheney campaign in New Hampshire, and as Director of the Republican National Committee's 72-Hour Campaign in 2005 and 2006. In 2008, he was a Regional Campaign Manager for Senator John S. McCain's presidential campaign before serving as National Field Director, a role in which he also served for New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani's presidential campaign in 2007-08. He also served in the same role for Presidential hopeful Donald Trump in the 2016 Presidential Campaign.\n\nStepien served as campaign manager in Chris Christie's successful campaign for Governor of New Jersey in 2009. Christie's first major announcement after winning the election was the naming of four top staffers, including Stepien as a Deputy Chief of Staff for Legislative and Intergovernmental Affairs. In April 2013, Stepien resigned from that position to become the manager of Christie's re-election campaign. His replacement as Deputy Chief of Staff for Legislative and Intergovernmental Affairs was Bridget Anne Kelly.\n\nAfter he was re-elected Governor, Christie announced that he wanted Stepien to take over the chairmanship of the New Jersey Republican Party from Sam Raia. On January 7, 2014, Christie said, \"I’ve asked Bill Stepien to be our new State Party Chairman because no one better understands how to grow our party, communicate our message and, most importantly, win elections... Bill Stepien is the best Republican operative in the country, and New Jersey Republicans will be fortunate to have him leading our Party.\" However, just two days later, on January 9, Christie announced that he had \"lost my confidence in Bill's judgment,\" and he asked Stepien to withdraw his name from consideration for the state Republican chairman.\n\nThe turnaround was a result of Stepien's work on Christie's re-election campaign, where he became embroiled in the criminal closure of access lanes to the George Washington Bridge. Investigators eventually discovered that Stepien was in a romantic relationship with Bridget Kelly, his replacement as Christie's deputy chief of staff. Their relationship lasted until August 2013, just as the plan to close the lanes was being implemented. Though their personal relationship was over, Stepien was kept abreast of the lane closures and the intended fallout. It was the emails between Stepien and those involved in the lane closures that sealed his fate. Christie said, \"I was disturbed by the tone and behavior and attitude of callous indifference that was displayed in the emails by my former campaign manager, Bill Stepien.\"\n\nTwo months after losing Christie's confidence, Stepien made a \"soft landing\" at the data and phone bank giant FLS Connect, which hired him to work on sales and strategy. Stepien then received a subpoena to submit documents to the New Jersey Legislature panel investigating in the lane closures. In a 19-page letter sent to Reid Schar, special counsel to the joint Senate and Assembly committee, Stepien's lawyer cited Stepien’s Fifth Amendment privilege against compelled self-incrimination, noting that in addition to the legislative probe, a federal criminal inquiry into the lane closures was also underway.\n\nJudge Jacobson of the New Jersey Superior Court ruled that Stepien was not required to comply with the legislative subpoenas to produce documents since they were written too broadly, and he was also protected under the Fifth Amendment. In May his lawyer also contended that a report produced on behalf of the Governor's Office misrepresented his client.\n\nIn the trial in September 2016 about the lanes closures, federal prosecution witness David Wildstein said that Stepien was aware of the lane closures as they were happening.\n\nStepien's firm, Nassau Strategies LLC, is based out of a residential home on Knob Hill Road in Hackettstown, New Jersey. The firm benefited from Christie's chairmanship of the Republican Governors Association, as did many other New Jersey-based consulting firms. In December 2013, the RGA paid Stepien's firm $15,000, just a month before Christie cut ties with Stepien. On December 8, 2014, GOPAC made a retainer payment of $6,000 to Nassau Strategies for political strategy consulting.\n\nIn August 2016 Stepien was hired to work for the Donald Trump presidential campaign, 2016. During the presidential transition late in the year Stepien was expected to be named the White House political director for the upcoming Trump Administration.\n\n"}
{"id": "57111097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57111097", "title": "Blancpain GT World Challenge Asia", "text": "Blancpain GT World Challenge Asia\n"}
{"id": "44404723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44404723", "title": "Chichijima incident", "text": "Chichijima incident\n\nThe Chichijima incident (also known as the Ogasawara incident) occurred in late 1944, when Japanese soldiers killed and consumed five American airmen on Chichi Jima, in the Bonin Islands.\n\nNine airmen escaped from their planes after being shot down during bombing raids on Chichi Jima, a tiny island south of Tokyo, in September 1944. Eight were captured. The ninth, the only one to evade capture, was future US President George H. W. Bush, then a 20-year-old pilot.\n\nAfter the war, it was discovered that the captured airmen had been beaten and tortured before being executed. The airmen were beheaded on the orders of Lt Gen. Yoshio Tachibana (立花芳夫, \"Tachibana Yoshio\"). American authorities claimed that Japanese officers then ate parts of the bodies of four of the men.\n\nTachibana, alongside 11 other Japanese personnel, was tried in August 1946 in relation to the execution of U.S. Navy airmen, and the cannibalism of at least one of them, during August 1944. Because military and international law did not specifically deal with cannibalism, they were tried for murder and \"prevention of honorable burial\". \n\nThis case was investigated in 1947 in a war crimes trial, and of 30 Japanese soldiers prosecuted, five (Maj. Matoba, Gen. Tachibana, Adm. Mori, Capt. Yoshii, and Dr. Teraki) were found guilty. Tachibana was sentenced to death, and hanged.\n\nIn the best-selling book \"\", American author James Bradley details several instances of cannibalism of World War II Allied prisoners by their Japanese captors. Bradley claims that this included not only ritual cannibalization of the livers of freshly killed prisoners, but also the cannibalization-for-sustenance of living prisoners over the course of several days, amputating limbs only as needed to keep the meat fresh.\n\n"}
{"id": "48220202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48220202", "title": "China in the ABU Radio Song Festival", "text": "China in the ABU Radio Song Festival\n\nChina will participate in the ABU Radio Song Festival for the first time in 2016. The Chinese broadcaster, China National Radio, will be the organiser of the Chinese entry for the country's debut in the contest.\n\nChina National Radio will be debuting in the ABU Radio Song Festival in 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41975693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41975693", "title": "Coldren Opera House", "text": "Coldren Opera House\n\nThe Coldren Opera House is a former theater that operated in Iowa City, Iowa from 1877 until its closure in 1912.\n\nThe original opening of Englert Theatre with its legitimate stage and orchestra pit, plus a huge retractable screen for motion picture presentations, coupled with a new University of Iowa auditorium in Macbride Hall, which had been opened during 1908, spelled doom for another notable Iowa City institution, the Coldren Opera House (initially called the Grand Opera House) at 105 College Street.\n\nAlthough calling itself an opera house, little opera was ever performed there. Rather, the name avoided less respectable terms, such as \"theater\" or \"drama house.\" From its opening during 1877 until its 1912 closing, the Coldren had served hundreds of the prominent traveling road shows and events of its era, including a lecture by Oscar Wilde in 1882, as well as a variety of university functions from presidential inaugurations to graduation ceremonies.\n\nThe Coldren interior, considered spectacular in its time, had featured an array of chandelier and sconce lighting fixtures using coal gas produced locally beginning during 1857. Its stage lighting was state-of-the-art during the late 19th century. After the Coldren purchase and remodeling of 1897, it seated 845 on three levels within two floors of the structure.\n"}
{"id": "8278917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8278917", "title": "Computational and Systems Neuroscience", "text": "Computational and Systems Neuroscience\n\nComputational and Systems Neuroscience (COSYNE or CoSyNe) is an annual scientific conference for the exchange of experimental and theoretical/computational approaches to problems in systems neuroscience. It is an important meeting for computational neuroscientists where many levels of approaches are discussed. It is a single track-meeting with oral and poster sessions and attracts about 800-900 participants from a variety of disciplines, including neuroscience, computer science and machine learning. Until 2018, the 3-day long main meeting was held in Salt Lake City, followed by two days of workshops at Snowbird, Utah. In 2018, COSYNE moved to Denver (3 days) and Breckenridge (2 days). \n\nCOSYNE grew out of the Neural Information and Coding (NIC) meetings founded by Anthony Zador in 1996. The first COSYNE was organized in 2004 by Michael Shadlen, Alexander Pouget, Carlos Brody and Anthony Zador. The current Executive Committee consists of Alexander Pouget, Zachary Mainen, Stephanie Palmer and Anthony Zador.\n\n"}
{"id": "58247763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58247763", "title": "Concerns and controversies at the 2018 Asian Games", "text": "Concerns and controversies at the 2018 Asian Games\n\nA number of concerns and controversies surfaced before and during the 2018 Asian Games in Jakarta and Palembang, Indonesia.\n\nJakarta, consistently ranked as having one of the world's worst traffic congestion problems, is building a subway. However, it will not be ready until 2019, so organizers have proposed closing schools during the event to curb traffic from millions of commuting pupils. Authorities also proposed to set aside toll roads and bus lanes for special official and athlete use during the Games. Jakarta has also instated an odd-even licence plate system to limit congestion.\n\nAir pollution also becomes a concern on both cities. Jakarta has long struggled to boost air quality, regularly rated as unsafe by the World Health Organization (WHO) as Jakarta's average score on the Air Quality Index (AQI) had exceeded 100 during early July 2018, once reaching the \"unhealthy\" range at 171 on 11 AM, Tuesday, 17 July 2018. Palembang also had been constantly under risk of haze caused by peatland fire during dry season which coincides with the Games. Authorities are looking into the possibility of cloud seeding to combat the fire hotspots by triggering rainfall in dry areas with flares of salt shot into suitable clouds. Authorities covered a polluted, foul-smelling river near the Asian Games athletes' village in Jakarta with black nylon mesh over fears it will be an eyesore at the showpiece event.\n\nSecurity is another concern, with the Games taking place just a few months after a series of terror attacks, which killed dozens of people and provoked fear over Islamist militants. Some 100,000 security staff including bomb squad and sniper teams will be deployed in Jakarta, Palembang, and West Java, where the majority of events are hosted. Local police said they have been taking part in a pre-Asian Games crackdown on terror suspects and petty street criminals.\n\nThe Olympic Council of Malaysia (OCM) also raised concerns over Malaysian men's U-16 national football team security issues due to the recent provocations by Indonesian fans at venues and on social media. Although, it was initially triggered by the Instagram's post of one Malaysian when they were competing the 2018 AFF U-16 Youth Championship at East Java.\n\nOn 21 July 2018, less than one month from the Games, women football venue of Gelora Sriwijaya Stadium in Palembang had been partially damaged in a riot during local football league. At least 335 seats had been destroyed by the mob.\n\nOfficials had held Asian Games' men football tournament drawing three times due to protest from UAE and Palestine which were incidentally not included in the first drawing. Later, Iraq withdrew from tournament which forced officials to rebalance the groups by determining which of Palestine or UAE would be moved to Group C to replace Iraq.\n\nPrior to the start of the golf tournament of the Asian Games, several national golf associations complained to the Court of Arbitration for Sport that Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Macau and Uzbekistan had possibly entered professional golfers, but the CAS ruled that none of the players were professional as the golf tournament was reserved only for the amateur players.\n\nThe Indonesian Asian Games Organizing Committee (INASGOC) banned athletes competing in the Games from consuming alcohol and outside food in their accommodation in the host cities of Jakarta and Palembang. On 28 August 2018, officials said they had confiscated many bottles and cans of beer that athletes and officials had tried to bring in from outside the athletes' villages.\n\nSince the sales of closing ceremony ticket, Indonesian anti-corruption commission, KPK has alleged to receive 14 free tickets with 13 of them had not been used. The gratification allegations started when the state enterprises of Indonesia (BUMN) bought several tickets, KPK has warned some officials in BUMN to report back of the buying. Jusuf Kalla, Vice President of Indonesia, had declared that \"it did not include in gratification because it is less than Rp 10 millions [threshold of official gratification in Indonesia]\". Even more, KPK had not known whether it was included in gratifications or not.\n\nDuring the medal ceremony of men's 200 metre freestyle swimming on 19 August 2018, the flags of the three medalists crashed to the ground due to a technical malfunction. Sun Yang, the Chinese swimmer and the gold medalist of the event, immediately got off the podium, walked to some officials and demanded the medal ceremony to be conducted once again. The flags were re-attached to the broken hoist but couldn't be raised, and the Chinese anthem was played for a second time.\n\nOn 25 August 2018, Hiroto Inoue won the Asian Games men's marathon in a controversial sprint finish, with Bahrain later lodging a complaint to race officials, accusing the Japanese runner of barging second-place finisher Elhassan Elabbassi. Meanwhile, on the same day, a cat ran into the track of the Gelora Bung Karno Main Stadium during the interval of women's 100m qualification competition.\n\nCoach Yeng Guiao of the Philippine men's National Basketball team raised doubts on why a Hong Kong referee officiated the match up between China and the Philippines. Despite having its own organized sports body, Hong Kong is special administrative region of the of China. He questioned the number of China's free throw attempts to the Philippines', 39 foul shots to 15. The Chinese team was assessed to only 16 fouls compared to the Philippines, 25.\n\nIn women's 57 kg, Filipino boxer Nesthy Petecio lost a controversial bout against Chinese rival Yin Junhua to the surprise of most of the crowd at the Jakarta International Expo Hall C. Japanese and Turkmen judges ruled in favor of the Filipino while Bulgarian and South Korean judges ruled in favor of the Chinese. The French judge scored a 28-28, but later handed the fight to the Chinese to break the deadlock. Petecio shed tears of anger and stared at the judges. Philippine chef de mission Richard Gomez said it's a case of “bad call, bad decision and bad scoring” while Association of Boxing Alliances in the Philippines (ABAP) executive director Ed Picson blasted the result of the bout and appeals to officials “that the judges responsible for this travesty not be assigned to officiate in the coming Philippines fights as judges or referees.”\n\nLuis Milla, the head coach of Indonesian men's national football team called the referee Shaun Evans from Australia 'unfit' after he gave two controversial penalties during a game between Indonesia and the United Arab Emirates. Milla was disappointed because the referee was biased during the whole game. \"The referee doesn't have any competence to officiate at the Asian Games. He [Shaun Evans] is not on that level. He's the [opponent’s] 12th player and I am sad that our players' struggle had to end like this,\" the Spanish coach said. The Indonesian goalkeeper, Andritany Ardhiyasa, added at the press conference, \"Today is a sad day for us because we were robbed by [the referee]. The second penalty should not have been awarded\".\n\nOn 26 August 2018, in the Semifinal of Men's tanding 85 kg to 90 kg, Muhammad Robial Sobri, a Malaysian athlete, deliberately kicked his Singaporean opponent, Sheik Alauddin Sheik Ferdous, after the Singaporean had fell to the ground.\n\nOn 27 August 2018, another Malaysian pencak silat athlete, Mohd Al-Jufferi Jamari accused the judges of bias. Even he was walked out off the final match, the furious three-time world champion left a damage in the changing room's partition at venue after the match, something for which the Malaysian delegation had apologized. Indonesia had won 14 out of 16 gold medals on offer, while several countries including Singapore and Iran had complain about the judging in this event, claiming that judges are favouring local atheltes.\n\nOn the other hand, the Indonesian Asian Games Organizing Committee (INASGOC) chairman Erick Thohir, had rejected accusations of cheating, claiming that the game \"is open, with people can see it on television and it is clear\". Erick also insisted that they have \"monitor closely all judges, who are chosen by the Asian governing body\". He added that, \"We see the domination of certain countries in sports such as judo, karate and taekwondo. The funny thing is when Indonesia achieves such success, why do people complain?\".\n\nOn August 24, Turkmenistani wrestler, Rustem Nazarov became the first athlete to fail a doping test. Nazarov had competed in the men's 57 kilograms freestyle event on August 19 and was beaten 12-8 in his first match by India's Sandeep Tomar.\n\nOn September 2, Mongolian reigning world champion Orkhon Purevdorj was stripped of the gold medal she claimed in the women's 62 kilogram event. Purevdorj tested positive for anabolic steroid Stanazolol and received lengthy ban on sporting events.\n"}
{"id": "43274224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43274224", "title": "Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act", "text": "Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act\n\nThe Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act (CISA [113th Congress], [114th Congress]) is a United States federal law designed to \"improve cybersecurity in the United States through enhanced sharing of information about cybersecurity threats, and for other purposes\". The law allows the sharing of Internet traffic information between the U.S. government and technology and manufacturing companies. The bill was introduced in the U.S. Senate on July 10, 2014, and passed in the Senate October 27, 2015. Opponents question CISA's value, believing it will move responsibility from private businesses to the government, thereby increasing vulnerability of personal private information, as well as dispersing personal private information across seven government agencies, including the NSA and local police.\n\nThe text of the bill was incorporated by amendment into a consolidated spending bill in the U.S. House on December 15, 2015, which was signed into law by President Barack Obama on December 18, 2015.\n\nThe Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act was introduced on July 10, 2014 during the 113th Congress, and was able to pass the Senate Intelligence Committee by a vote of 12-3. The bill did not reach a full senate vote before the end of the congressional session.\n\nThe bill was reintroduced for the 114th Congress on March 12, 2015, and the bill passed the Senate Intelligence Committee by a vote of 14-1. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, (R-Ky) attempted to attach the bill as an amendment to the annual National Defense Authorization Act, but was blocked 56-40, not reaching the necessary 60 votes to include the amendment. Mitch McConnell hoped to bring the bill to senate-wide vote during the week of August 3–7, but was unable to take up the bill before the summer recess. The Senate tentatively agreed to limit debate to 21 particular amendments and a manager's amendment, but did not set time limits on debate. In October 2015, the US Senate took the bill back up following legislation concerning sanctuary cities.\n\nThe main provisions of the bill make it easier for companies to share personal information with the government, especially in cases of cyber security threats. Without requiring such information sharing, the bill creates a system for federal agencies to receive threat information from private companies.\n\nWith respect to privacy, the bill includes provisions for preventing the act of sharing data known to be both personally identifiable and irrelevant to cyber security. Any personal information which does not get removed during the sharing procedure can be used in a variety of ways. These shared cyber threat indicators can be used to prosecute cyber crimes, but may also be used as evidence for crimes involving physical force.\n\nThe CISA has received some support from advocacy groups, including the United States Chamber of Commerce, the National Cable & Telecommunications Association, and the Financial Services Roundtable.\n\nA number of business groups have also opposed the bill, including the Computer & Communications Industry Association, as well as individual companies such as Twitter, Yelp, Apple, and Reddit.\n\nBSA (The Software Alliance) appeared initially supportive of CISA, sending a letter on July 21, 2015 urging the senate to bring the bill up for debate. On September 14, 2015, the BSA published a letter of support for amongst other things cyber threat information sharing legislation addressed to Congress, signed by board members Adobe, Apple Inc., Altium, Autodesk, CA Technologies, DataStax, IBM, Microsoft, Minitab, Oracle, Salesforce.com, Siemens, and Symantec. This prompted the digital rights advocacy group Fight for the Future to organize a protest against CISA. Following this opposition campaign, BSA stated that its letter expressed support for cyber threat sharing legislation in general, but did not endorse CISA, or any pending cyber threat sharing bill in particular. BSA later stated that it is opposed to CISA in its current form. The Computer & Communications Industry Association, another major trade group including members such as Google, Amazon.com, Cloudflare, Netflix, Facebook, Red Hat, and Yahoo!, also announced its opposition to the bill.\n\nProponents of CISA include the bill's main cosponsors, senators Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and Richard Burr (R-NC).\n\nSome senators have announced opposition to CISA, including Ron Wyden (D-OR), Rand Paul (R-KY), and Bernie Sanders (I-VT).\n\nSenator Ron Wyden (D-OR) has objected to the bill based on a classified legal opinion from the Justice Department written during the early George W Bush Administration. The Obama administration states that it does not rely on the legal justification laid out in the memo. Wyden has made repeated requests to the US Attorney General to declassify the memo, dating at least as far back as when a 2010 Office of Inspector General report cited the memo as a legal justification for the FBI's warrantless wire-tapping program.\n\nOn August 4, 2015, White House spokesman Eric Schultz endorsed the legislation, calling for the senate to \"take up this bill as soon as possible and pass it\".\n\nThe United States Department of Homeland Security initially supported the bill, with Jeh Johnson, the secretary of the DHS, calling for the bill to move forward on September 15. However, in an August 3 letter to senator Al Franken (D-MN), the deputy secretary of the DHS, Alejandro Mayorkas, expressed a desire to have all connections be brokered by the DHS, given the Department's charter to protect the executive branch networks. In the letter, the DHS found issue with the direct sharing of information with all government agencies, advocating instead that the DHS be the sole recipient of cyberthreat information, allowing it to scrub out private information. In addition, the Department of Homeland Security has published a Privacy Impact Assessment detailing its internal review of the proposed system for handling incoming indicators from Industry.\n\nPrivacy advocates were aghast in October when the Senate passed the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act by a vote of 74 to 21, leaving intact portions of the law they say make it more amenable to surveillance than actual security while quietly stripping out several of its remaining privacy protections.\nCISA has been criticized by advocates of Internet privacy and civil liberties, such as the Electronic Frontier Foundation and the American Civil Liberties Union. It has been compared to the criticized Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act proposals of 2012 and 2013, which passed the United States House of Representatives, but did not pass the Senate.\n\nUnited Kingdom government policy: cyber security\n\nThe Scottish Government Information Sharing\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52339431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52339431", "title": "Drive DMACK Fiesta Trophy", "text": "Drive DMACK Fiesta Trophy\n\nThe Drive DMACK Fiesta Trophy (also known as the Drive DMACK Cup in 2014) was a complementary series to the FIA World Rally Championship (WRC) held since 2014 till 2016 WRC seasons. Drivers used the same cars produced by M-Sport - Ford Fiesta R2 and the same tyres provided by DMACK. The winner was entered in WRC-2 for DMACK World Rally Team the following season. It was created when Citroën won bid for official JWRC cars and M-Sport wanted to find use for trophy Fiestas.\n\n"}
{"id": "4243387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4243387", "title": "Environmental issues in Paraguay", "text": "Environmental issues in Paraguay\n\nEnvironmental issues in Paraguay include deforestation. \n\nBetween 1990 and 2000, Paraguay had an average deforestation rate of 1%. The rate increased between 2000 and 2005 to 1.92%. Paraguay also has a growing pollution problem. Many of the country’s rivers suffer from toxic dumping. Tanneries are particularly harmful, releasing mercury and chromium into rivers and streams. Runoff from toxic chemicals used by farmers also seeps into Paraguay’s waters. In the Chaco, the salination of already arid land makes farming even more difficult. Furthermore, poachers have almost free rein in Paraguay, and continue to foster the illegal trade in armadillo, deer and crocodile skins.\n"}
{"id": "57860657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57860657", "title": "Freedom and Constitution Day", "text": "Freedom and Constitution Day\n\nFreedom and Constitution Day () was a former public holiday in Turkey celebrated on 27 May between 1963 and 1981 in commemoration of the 27 May 1960 military coup and the new constitution.\n\nBy the 1960 military coup on 27 May, the 11th Parliament was abolished. On 9 July 1961, a referandum was held for a new constitution, and on 15 October 1961 Turkey returned to democratic political system. On 4 April 1963, a public holiday was enacted to commemorate the new constitution. The holyday was on the 27 May. The public holiday was abolished on 17 March 1981 following the 12 September 1980 military coup.\n"}
{"id": "10436204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10436204", "title": "Fuckart &amp; Pimp", "text": "Fuckart &amp; Pimp\n\nFuckart & Pimp was a media hoax conceived by Alex Chappel and David C West in April 1998 which subjected London's Decima gallery to worldwide media attention and became a British front page newspaper sensation, as well as featuring on national television. The show was originally presented as a real event and managed to dupe many national newspapers in the UK before being revealed as a hoax.\n\nThe show \"Fuckart & Pimp\" was conceived by Alex Chappel and freelance reporter David C. West. An initial press release was sent out in April 1998 to all the newspapers and media describing the concept show, to open on 17 April: \"Fuckart and Pimp\" featured a Canadian artist named Angela Marshall. The gallery (the Pimp) prostitutes the artist (the Whore), and the buyer (the Punter) has to consummate the sale of a painting by performing a sexual act with Angela. It was billed as \"a stark comment on the world of contemporary art\", and the show would \"enable both the punter and Angela to fully understand the workings of the curator-artist relationship\". photographs were encouraged, \"A small picture will cost £25 and require oral sex; a medium-size picture is full sex, at £50 and for a large painting at £75, 'anything kinky'\".\n\nThat same day, from 9 p.m. onwards, the Decima gallery became besieged by press reporters. Everyone from the tabloids to ITN arrived, and as they were all expecting to see an art show, one was staged. Angela Marshall arrived to the glare of lenses, \"squeezed into a nine year old's leopard print leotard (she aspires to be 'in her twenties') and sporting a red rhinestone dog collar, hat, gloves, torn black stockings, topped by a blond wig and dark sunglasses\", as \"The Scotsman\" reported.\n\nThe crowds stayed away, \"possibly deterred by the ranks of camera crews and reporters gathered outside the gallery\", as \"The Guardian\" speculated. The reason for them not materialising, however, was the fact that none ever existed to begin with; thus, to curb the media hunger, a punter was invented in the form of \"someone calling himself Mark Childs and claiming to be a buyer\".\n\nAs \"The Scotsman\" put it, \"Under a dim red light bulb, a man and two women - the second being the artist's Scottish 'assistant' Jessica Konopka - thrashed about on a dirty mattress in a pathetic pantomime copulation\". On \"London Tonight\", Mark Childs could be seen leaving the gallery with lipstick-smeared face, carrying a digitally blurred painting. The reason why the painting was digitally blurred is because it bore the lipstick scrawled slogan 'Media Cunts'.\n\nA counter sabotage that fuelled much of the coverage was Southwark council's letter presented in full view of the cameras, 'warning that the property appeared to be being used for sexual entertainment, and that the show's curator may have committed an offence. If the exhibition continued, the gallery would be risking prosecution. This was on the evidence of the eyewitness reports of the undercover council officer who paid five pounds to watch the act through a spy hole, and was reported by The Scotsman as saying 'she's still wearing the G-string but he's got all his kit off and they're definitely at it.'\n\n'Nick', as he was called in the article, publicly issued a warning for obscenity. Despite the insistence that the warning would not hinder the show continuing over the weekend, the pinnacle of the event had been reached and it did not continue.\n\nThe following day, 18 April, nearly every paper reported on the event, some skeptical as to its authenticity; it was only The Daily Telegraph that actually caught on with the headline 'Hoaxers play to the gallery with sex and art show,' with a sub heading 'Tom Leonard reports on the elaborate and bizarre activities of two publicity-seekers'.\n'Faking it in the name of art' gave a brief synopsis of the previous lengthier stories with the small inclusion of a quote: 'yesterday show organiser David West admitted, \"It was a hoax...a charade.\"' The nationwide press were reluctant to follow up the original story with the truth, and potentially suffer embarrassment, thus, outside of the UK many were ignorant of the fact that it was a hoax.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54417227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54417227", "title": "Hill Fire", "text": "Hill Fire\n\nThe Hill Fire was a wildfire in 2017, east of Santa Margarita near Highway 58 in San Luis Obispo County, California. The fire burned an estimated 1,598 acres and destroyed four homes.\n\nThe fire started near Park Hill Road and La Entrada about 3:30 p.m. Monday, June 26, and expanded to 1,200 acres throughout the course of the day. Evacuations were ordered for over 100 residents in the area of Huer Huero Road to Highway 58, including Black Mountain Resort, Blue and Blue Ridge roads. The fire destroyed three structures also reportedly destroying actor Johnny Galecki’s ranch home. The fire was contained on June 30. \n\n"}
{"id": "211289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=211289", "title": "Hyde Park, London", "text": "Hyde Park, London\n\nHyde Park is a Grade I-listed major park in Central London. It is the largest of four Royal Parks that form a chain from the entrance of Kensington Palace through Kensington Gardens and Hyde Park, via Hyde Park Corner and Green Park past the main entrance to Buckingham Palace. The park is divided by the Serpentine and the Long Water lakes.\n\nThe park was established by Henry VIII in 1536 when he took the land from Westminster Abbey and used it as a hunting ground. It opened to the public in 1637 and quickly became popular, particularly for May Day parades. Major improvements occurred in the early 18th century under the direction of Queen Caroline. Several duels took place in Hyde Park during this time, often involving members of the nobility. The Great Exhibition of 1851 was held in the park, for which The Crystal Palace, designed by Joseph Paxton, was erected.\n\nFree speech and demonstrations have been a key feature of Hyde Park since the 19th century. Speaker's Corner has been established as a point of free speech and debate since 1872, while the Chartists, the Reform League, the suffragettes, and the Stop the War Coalition have all held protests there. In the late 20th century, the park became known for holding large-scale free rock music concerts, featuring groups such as Pink Floyd, The Rolling Stones and Queen. Commercial concerts have continued into the 21st century, such as Live 8 in 2005.\n\nHyde Park is the largest Royal Park in London. It is bounded on the north by Bayswater Road, to the east by Park Lane, and to the south by Knightsbridge. Further north is Paddington, further east is Mayfair and further south is Belgravia. To the southeast, outside the park, is Hyde Park Corner, beyond which is Green Park, St. James's Park and Buckingham Palace Gardens. The park has been Grade I listed on the Register of Historic Parks and Gardens since 1987.\n\nTo the west, Hyde Park merges with Kensington Gardens. The dividing line runs approximately between Alexandra Gate to Victoria Gate via West Carriage Drive and the Serpentine Bridge. The Serpentine is to the south of the park area. Kensington Gardens has been separate from Hyde Park since 1728, when Queen Caroline divided them. Hyde Park covers 142 hectares (350 acres), and Kensington Gardens covers 111 hectares (275 acres), giving a total area of 253 hectares (625 acres). During daylight, the two parks merge seamlessly into each other, but Kensington Gardens closes at dusk, and Hyde Park remains open throughout the year from 5 a.m. until midnight.\n\nThe park's name comes from the Manor of Hyde, which was the northeast sub-division of the manor of Eia (the other two sub-divisions were Ebury and Neyte) and appears as such in the Domesday Book. The name is believed to be of Saxon origin, and means a unit of land, the hide, that was appropriate for the support of a single family and dependents. Through the Middle Ages, it was property of Westminster Abbey, and the woods in the manor were used both for firewood and shelter for game.\n\nHyde Park was created for hunting by Henry Vlll in 1536 after he acquired the manor of Hyde from the Abbey. It was enclosed as a deer park and remained a private hunting ground until James I permitted limited access to gentlefolk, appointing a ranger to take charge. Charles I created the Ring (north of the present Serpentine boathouses), and in 1637 he opened the park to the general public. It quickly became a popular gathering place, particularly for May Day celebrations. At the start of the English Civil War in 1642, a series of fortifications were built along the east side of the park, including forts at what is now Marble Arch, Mount Street and Hyde Park Corner. The latter included a strongpoint where visitors to London could be checked and vetted.\n\nIn 1652, during the Interregnum, Parliament ordered the then park to be sold for \"ready money\". It realised £17,000 with an additional £765 6s 2d for the resident deer. During the Great Plague of London in 1665, Hyde Park was used as a military camp. Following the Restoration of the Monarchy in 1660, Charles II retook ownership of Hyde Park and enclosed it in a brick wall. He restocked deer in what is now Buck Hill in Kensington Gardens. The May Day parade continued to be a popular event; Samuel Pepys took part in the park's celebrations in 1663 while attempting to gain the King's favour.\n\nIn 1689, William III moved his residence to Kensington Palace on the far side of Hyde Park and had a drive laid out across its southern edge which was known as the King's Private Road. The drive is still in existence as a wide straight gravelled carriage track leading west from Hyde Park Corner across the southern boundary of Hyde Park towards Kensington Palace and now known as Rotten Row, possibly a corruption of \"rotteran\" (to muster), \"Ratten Row\" (roundabout way), \"Route du roi\", or \"rotten\" (the soft material with which the road is covered). It is believed to be the first road in London to be lit at night, which was done to deter highwaymen. In 1749, Horace Walpole was robbed while travelling through the park from Holland House. The row was used by the wealthy for horseback rides in the early 19th century.\n\nHyde Park was a popular duelling spot during the 18th century, with 172 taking place, leading to 63 fatalities. The Hamilton–Mohun Duel took place there in 1712 when Charles Mohun, 4th Baron Mohun fought James Hamilton, 4th Duke of Hamilton. Baron Mohun was killed instantly, while the Duke died shortly afterwards. John Wilkes fought Samuel Martin in 1772, as did Richard Brinsley Sheridan with Captain Thomas Mathews over the latter's libellous comments about Sheridan's fiancee Elizabeth Ann Linley. Edward Thurlow, 1st Baron Thurlow fought Andrew Stuart in a Hyde Park duel in 1770. Military executions were common in Hyde Park at this time; John Rocque's Map of London, 1746 marks a point inside the park, close to the Tyburn gallows, as \"where soldiers are shot.\"\nThe first coherent landscaping in Hyde Park began in 1726. It was undertaken by Charles Bridgeman for King George I, but following the king's death the following year, it continued with approval of his daughter-in-law, Queen Caroline. Work was undertaken under the supervision of Charles Withers, the Surveyor-General of Woods and Forests. The principal effect of the work was to sub-divide Hyde Park and create Kensington Gardens. The Serpentine was formed by damming the River Westbourne, which runs through the park from Kilburn towards the Thames. It is divided from the Long Water by a bridge designed by George Rennie in 1826.\n\nThe work was completed in 1733. The 2nd Viscount Weymouth was made Ranger of Hyde Park in 1739 and shortly after began digging the Serpentine lakes at Longleat. A powder magazine was built north of the Serpentine in 1805.\n\nHyde Park hosted a Great Fair in the summer of 1814 to celebrate the Allied sovereigns' visit to England, and exhibited various stalls and shows. The Battle of Trafalgar was re-enacted on the Serpentine, with a band playing the National Anthem while the French fleet sank into the lake. The coronation of King George IV in 1821 was celebrated with a fair in the park, including an air balloon and firework displays.\n\nOne of the most important events to take place in Hyde Park was the Great Exhibition of 1851. The Crystal Palace was constructed on the south side of the park. The public did not want the building to remain after the closure of the exhibition, and its architect, Joseph Paxton, raised funds and purchased it. He had it moved to Sydenham Hill in South London. Another significant event was the first Victoria Cross investiture, on 26 June 1857, when 62 men were decorated by Queen Victoria in the presence of Prince Albert and other members of the Royal Family, including their future son-in-law Crown Prince Frederick of Prussia, later Emperor Frederick III.\n\nThe Hyde Park Lido sits on the south bank of the Serpentine. It opened in 1930 to provide improved support for bathing and sunbathing in the park, which had been requested by the naturist group, the Sunlight League. The Lido and accompanying Pavilion was designed by the Commissioner of Works, George Lansbury, and was half funded by a £5,000 (now £) donation from Major Colin Cooper (1892-1938). It still sees regular use in the summer into the 21st century.\n\nHyde Park has been a major venue for several Royal jubilees and celebrations. For the Golden Jubilee of Queen Victoria in 1887, a party was organised on 22 June where around 26,000 school children were given a free meal as a gift. The Queen and the Prince of Wales made an unexpected appearance at the event. Victoria remained fond of Hyde Park in the final years of her life and often drove there twice a day. As part of the Queen's Silver Jubilee in 1977, a Jubilee Exhibition was set up in Hyde Park, with the Queen and Prince Philip visiting on 30 June. In 2012, a major festival took place in the park as part of the Queen's Diamond Jubilee celebrations. On 6 February, the King's Troop, Royal Horse Artillery fired a 41-gun Royal Salute at Hyde Park Corner.\nOn 20 July 1982, in the Hyde Park and Regents Park bombings, two devices linked to the Provisional Irish Republican Army caused the death of eight members of the Household Cavalry and the Royal Green Jackets and seven horses. A memorial was constructed to the left of the Albert Gate to commemorate the soldiers and horses killed in the blast.\n\nSince 2007, Hyde Park has played host to the annual Winter Wonderland event, which features numerous Christmas-themed markets, along with various rides and attractions, alongside bars and restaurants. It has become one of the largest Christmas events in Europe, having attracted over 14 million visitors as of 2016, and has expanded to include the largest ice rink in London, live entertainment and circuses.\n\nOn 18 September 2010, Hyde Park was the setting for a prayer vigil with Pope Benedict XVI as part of his visit to the United Kingdom, attended by around 80,000 people. A large crowd assembled along the Mall to see the Pope arrive for his address. An attempt to assassinate the Pope had been foiled after five street cleaners were spotted within a mile of Hyde Park, and arrested along with sixth suspect.\n\nDuring the late 18th century, plans were made to replace the old toll gate at Hyde Park Corner with a grander entrance, following the gentrification of the area surrounding it. The first design was put forward by Robert Adam in 1778 as a grand archway, followed by John Soane's 1796 proposal to build a new palace adjacent to the corner in Green Park.\n\nFollowing the construction of Buckingham Palace, the improvement plans were revisited. The grand entrance to the park at Hyde Park Corner was designed by Decimus Burton, and was constructed in the 1820s. Burton laid out the paths and driveways and designed a series of lodges, the Screen/Gate at Hyde Park Corner (also known as the Grand Entrance or the Apsley Gate) in 1825 and the Wellington Arch, which opened in 1828. The Screen and the Arch originally formed a single composition, designed to provide a monumental transition between Hyde Park and Green Park, although the arch was moved in 1883. It originally had a statue of the Duke of Wellington on top; it was moved to Aldershot in 1883 when the arch was re-sited.\nAn early description reports:\n\"It consists of a screen of handsome fluted Ionic columns, with three carriage entrance archways, two foot entrances, a lodge, etc. The extent of the whole frontage is about . The central entrance has a bold projection: the entablature is supported by four columns; and the volutes of the capitals of the outside column on each side of the gateway are formed in an angular direction, so as to exhibit two complete faces to view. The two side gateways, in their elevations, present two insulated Ionic columns, flanked by antae. All these entrances are finished by a blocking, the sides of the central one being decorated with a beautiful frieze, representing a naval and military triumphal procession. This frieze was designed by Mr. Henning, junior, the son of Mr. Henning who was well known for his models of the Elgin Marbles. The gates were manufactured by Messrs. Bramah. They are of iron, bronzed, and fixed or hung to the piers by rings of gun-metal. The design consists of a beautiful arrangement of the Greek honeysuckle ornament; the parts being well defined, and the raffles of the leaves brought out in a most extraordinary manner.\"\n\nThe Wellington Arch was extensively restored by English Heritage between 1999–2001. It is now open to the public, who can see a view of the parks from its platforms above the porticoes.\n\nPopular areas within Hyde Park include Speakers' Corner (located in the northeast corner near Marble Arch), close to the former site of the Tyburn gallows, and Rotten Row, which is the northern boundary of the site of the Crystal Palace.\n\nFlowers were first planted in Hyde Park in 1860 by William Andrews Nesfield. The next year, the Italian Water Garden was constructed at Victoria Gate, including fountains and a summer house. Queen Anne's Alcove was designed by Sir Christopher Wren and was moved to the park from its original location in Kensington Gardens.\n\nDuring the late 20th century, over 9,000 elm trees in Hyde Park were killed by Dutch elm disease. This included many trees along the great avenues planted by Queen Caroline, which were ultimately replaced by limes and maples. The park now holds of greenhouses which hold the bedding plants for the Royal Parks. A scheme is available to adopt trees in the park, which helps fund their upkeep and maintenance. A botanical curiosity is the weeping beech, which is known as \"the upside-down tree\". A rose garden, designed by Colvin & Moggridge Landscape Architects, was added in 1994.\n\nThere are a number of assorted statues and memorials around Hyde Park. The Cavalry Memorial was built in 1924 at Stanhope Gate. It moved to the Serpentine Road when Park Lane was widened to traffic in 1961. South of the Serpentine is the Diana, Princess of Wales memorial, an oval stone ring fountain opened on 6 July 2004. To the east of the Serpentine, just beyond the dam, is London's Holocaust Memorial. The 7 July Memorial in the park commemorates the victims of 7 July 2005 London bombings.\n\nThe Standing Stone is a monolith at the centre of the Dell, to the east of Hyde Park. Made of Cornish stone, it was originally part of a drinking fountain, though an urban legend was established, claiming it was brought from Stonehenge by Charles I.\n\nAn assortment of unusual sculptures are scattered around the park, including: \"Still Water\", a massive horse head lapping up water; \"Jelly Baby Family\", a family of giant Jelly Babies standing on top of a large black cube; and \"Vroom Vroom\", which resembles a giant human hand pushing a toy car along the ground. The sculptor Jacob Epstein constructed several works in Hyde Park. His memorial to the author William Henry Hudson, featuring his character \"Rima\" caused public outrage when it was unveiled in 1925.\n\nThere has been a fountain at Grosvenor Gate since 1863, designed by Alexander Munro. There is another fountain opposite Mount Street on the park's eastern edge.\n\nHyde Park's Speakers' Corner has acquired an international reputation for demonstrations and other protests due to its tolerance of free speech. In 1855, a protest at the park was organised to demonstrate against Robert Grosvenor's attempt to ban Sunday trading, including a restriction on pub opening times. Karl Marx observed approximately 200,000 protesters attended the demonstration, which involved jeering and taunting at upper-class horse carriages. A further protest occurred a week later, but this time the police attacked the crowd.\n\nIn 1867 the policing of the park was entrusted to the Metropolitan Police, the only royal park so managed, due to the potential for trouble at Speakers' Corner. A Metropolitan Police station ('AH') is situated in the middle of the park. The 1872 Parks Regulation Act created positions of \"park keeper\" and also provided that \"Every police constable belonging to the police force of the district in which any park, garden, or possession to which this Act applies is situate shall have the powers, privileges, and immunities of a park-keeper within such park, garden, or possession.\"\nSpeaker's Corner became increasingly popular in the late 19th century. Visitors brought along placards, stepladders and soap boxes in order to stand out from others, while heckling of speakers was popular. Donald Soper, Baron Soper was a regular visitor throughout the 20th century, until just before his death in 1998. The rise of the Internet, particularly blogs, has diminished the importance of Speaker's Corner as a political platform, and it is increasingly seen as simply a tourist attraction.\n\nAs well as Speaker's Corner, several important mass demonstrations have occurred in Hyde Park. On 26 July 1886, the Reform League staged a march from their headquarters towards the park, campaigning for increased suffrage and representation. Though the police had closed the park, the crowd managed to break down the perimeter railings and get inside, leading to the event being dubbed \"The Hyde Park Railings Affair\". After the protests turned violent, three squadrons of Horse Guards and numerous Foot Guards were sent out from Marble Arch to combat the situation. On 21 June 1908, as part of \"Women's Sunday\", a reported 750,000 people marched from the Embankment to Hyde Park protesting for votes for women. The first protest against the planned 2003 invasion of Iraq took place in Hyde Park on 28 September 2002, with 150,000–350,000 in attendance. A further series of demonstrations happened around the world, culminating in the 15 February 2003, anti-war protests, part of a global demonstration against the Iraq War. Over a million protesters are reported to have attended the Hyde Park event alone.\n\nThe bandstand in Hyde Park was originally built in Kensington Gardens in 1869, moving to its current location in 1886. It became a popular place for concerts in the 1890s, featuring up to three every week. Military and brass bands continued to play into the 20th century.\nThe music management company Blackhill Enterprises held the first rock concert in Hyde Park on 29 June 1968, attended by 15,000 people. On the bill were Pink Floyd, Roy Harper and Jethro Tull, while John Peel later said it was \"the nicest concert I’ve ever been to\". Subsequently, Hyde Park has featured some of the most significant concerts in rock. The supergroup Blind Faith (featuring Eric Clapton and Steve Winwood) played their debut gig in Hyde Park on 7 June 1969. The Rolling Stones headlined a concert (later released as The Stones in the Park) on 5 July that year, two days after the death of founding member Brian Jones, and is now remembered as one of the most famous gigs of the 1960s. Pink Floyd returned to Hyde Park on 18 July 1970, playing new material from \"Atom Heart Mother\". All of the early gigs from 1968–71 were free events, contrasting sharply with the later commercial endeavours.\n\nQueen played a free concert organised by Richard Branson in the park on 18 September 1976, partway through recording the album \"A Day at the Races\". The band drew an audience of 150,000 – 200,000, which remains the largest crowd for a Hyde Park concert. The group were not allowed to play an encore, and police threatened to arrest frontman Freddie Mercury if he attempted to do so.\n\nThe British Live 8 concert took place in Hyde Park on 2 July 2005, as a concert organised by Bob Geldof and Midge Ure to raise awareness of increased debts and poverty in the third world. Acts included U2, Coldplay, Elton John, R.E.M., Madonna, The Who and Paul McCartney, and the most anticipated set was the reformation of the classic 1970s line-up of Pink Floyd (including David Gilmour and Roger Waters) for the first time since 1981. The gig was the Floyd's final live performance.\n\nActs from each of the four nations in the UK played a gig in the park as part of the opening ceremony for the 2012 Summer Olympics. The headliners were Duran Duran, representing England, alongside the Stereophonics for Wales, Paolo Nutini for Scotland and Snow Patrol for Northern Ireland. Since 2011, Radio 2 Live in Hyde Park has taken place each September.\n\nLocal residents have become critical of Hyde Park as a concert venue, due to the sound levels, and have campaigned for a maximum sound level of 73 decibels. In July 2012, Bruce Springsteen and Paul McCartney found their microphones switched off after Springsteen had played a three-hour set during the Park's Hard Rock Calling festival, and overshot the 10:30pm curfew time.\n\nHyde Park contains several sporting facilities, including several football pitches and a Tennis centre. There are numerous cycle paths, and horse riding is popular.\n\nIn 1998 British artist Marion Coutts recreated Hyde Park, along with Battersea and Regent's Park, as a set of asymmetrical ping-pong tables for her interactive installation \"Fresh Air\".\n\nFor the 2012 Summer Olympics, the park hosted the triathlon, which brothers Alistair Brownlee and Jonathan Brownlee took the Gold and Bronze medals for Team GB, and the 10 km open water swimming events. The park has also hosted the ITU World Triathlon Grand Final.\n\nThere are five London Underground stations located on or near the edges of Hyde Park and Kensington Gardens (which is contiguous with Hyde Park). In clockwise order starting from the south-east, they are:\n\nBayswater tube station, on the Circle and District lines, is also close to Queensway station and the north-west corner of the park. High Street Kensington tube station, on the Circle and District is very close to Kensington Palace located on the Southwest corner of Kensington Gardens. Paddington station, served by Bakerloo, Circle and District, and Hammersmith & City lines, is close to Lancaster Gate station and a short walk away from Hyde Park.\n\nSeveral main roads run around the perimeter of Hyde Park. Park Lane is part of the London Inner Ring Road and the London Congestion Charge zone boundary. The A4, a major road through West London, runs along the southeastern edge of the park, while the A5, a major road to Milton Keynes and the Midlands runs northwest from Marble Arch.\n\nTransport within the park for people lacking mobility and disabled visitors is provided free of charge by Liberty Drives, located at Triangle Carpark.\n\nNotes\n\nCitations\n\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "31376607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31376607", "title": "Iraqi–Kurdish conflict", "text": "Iraqi–Kurdish conflict\n\nThe Iraqi–Kurdish conflict consists of a series of wars and rebellions by the Kurds against the central authority of Iraq during the 20th century, which began shortly after the defeat of the Ottoman Empire in World War I and lasting until the U.S. invasion of Iraq in 2003. Some put the marking point of the conflict beginning to the attempt by Mahmud Barzanji to establish an independent Kingdom of Kurdistan, while others relate to the conflict as only the post-1961 insurrection by the Barzanis. The conflict lasted until the US invasion of Iraq in 2003, though tensions between the Kurdish autonomy and the central Iraqi government have continued.\n\nThe first chapter of the Iraqi–Kurdish dispute followed the end of World War I and the arrival of British forces. Mahmud Barzanji began secession attempts in 1919 and in 1922 proclaimed the short-lived Kingdom of Kurdistan. Though Mahmud's insurrections were defeated, another Kurdish sheikh, Ahmed Barzani, began to actively oppose the central rule of the Mandatory Iraq during the 1920s. The first of the major Barzani revolts took place in 1931, after Barzani, one of the most prominent Kurdish leaders in Northern Iraq, succeeded in defeating a number of other Kurdish tribes. He ultimately failed and took refuge in Turkey. The next serious Kurdish secession attempt was made by Ahmed Barzani's younger brother Mustafa Barzani in 1943, but that revolt failed as well, resulting in the exiling of Mustafa to Iran, where he participated in an attempt to form the Kurdish Republic of Mahabad.\n\nIn 1958, Mustafa Barzani and his fighters returned to Iraq from exile, and an attempt was made to negotiate Kurdish autonomy in the north with the new Iraqi administration of Gen. Qasim. The negotiations ultimately failed and the First Iraqi–Kurdish War erupted on 11 September 1961, lasting until 1970 and inflicting 75,000–105,000 casualties. Despite the attempts to resolve the conflict by providing Kurds with a recognized autonomy in north Iraq (Iraqi Kurdistan), the negotiations failed in 1974, resulting in resumed hostilities known as the Second Iraqi–Kurdish War, which resulted in the collapse of the Kurdish militias and the reconquest of northern Iraq by Iraqi government troops. As a result, Mustafa Barzani and most of the KDP leadership fled to Iran, while PUK gained power in the vacuum, leading an insurgency campaign against the central Iraqi government. Since 1976 PUK and KDP relations quickly deteriorated, reaching the climax in April 1978, when PUK troops suffered a major defeat by KDP, which had the support of Iranian and Iraqi air forces. During this period, the Ba'athist authorities took the opportunity to perform large-scale displacement and colonization projects in North Iraq, aiming to shift demographics and thus distabilize Kurdish power bases.\n\nThe conflict re-emerged as part of the Iran–Iraq War, with the Kurdish parties collaborating against Saddam Husein and KDP also gaining military support by the Islamic Republic of Iran. By 1986 Iraqi leadership grew tired of the strengthening and non-loyal Kurdish entity in north Iraq and began a genocidal campaign, known as Al-Anfal, to oust the Kurdish fighters and take revenge on the Kurdish population—an act often described as the \"Kurdish genocide\", with an estimated 50,000–200,000 casualties. In the aftermath of the Persian Gulf War, a series of uprisings shattered Iraq, but only the Kurds succeeded in achieving a status of unrecognized autonomy within one of the Iraqi no-fly zones, established by the US-led coalition. In the mid-1990s the conflict between the KDP and PUK erupted once again, resulting in a bloody civil war, which ended in 1997. Despite mutual recognition after the 2003 Iraq war which ousted Ba'ath rule, relations between Iraqi Kurdistan and the Iraqi central government grew strained between 2011–12 due to power-sharing issues and the export of oil.\n\nMahmud Barzanji revolts were a series of armed uprisings against the British forces in the newly conquered Mesopotamia and later the British Mandate in Iraq. Following his first insurrection in May 1919, Sheykh Mahmud was imprisoned and eventually exiled to India for a one-year period. When he returned he was once again appointed a governor, but shortly afterwards revolted again and declared himself the ruler of the Kingdom of Kurdistan. The Kingdom of Kurdistan lasted from September 1922 – 1924. With British forces greatly exceeding his in ammunition and training, Barzani was finally subdued and the region reverted to central British Iraqi rule in 1924. Sheykh Mahmud retreated into the mountains, and eventually reached terms with the independent Kingdom of Iraq in 1932, over his return from the underground. Shaykh Mahmud revolts are considered the first chapter of the modern Iraqi–Kurdish conflict.\n\nAhmed Barzani revolt refers to the first of the major Barzani revolts, taking place in 1931 after Ahmed Barzani, one of the most prominent Kurdish leaders in Southern Kurdistan, succeeded in unifying a number of other Kurdish tribes. The Barzan forces were eventually overpowered by the Iraqi Army with British support, forcing the leaders of Barzan to go underground.\n\nAhmed Barzani was later forced to flee to Turkey, where he was held in detention and then sent to exile in the south of Iraq. Although initially a tribal dispute, the involvement of the Iraqi government inadvertently led to the growth of Shaykh Ahmad and Mulla Mustafa Barzani as prominent Kurdish leaders. Throughout these early conflicts, the Barzanis consistently displayed their leadership and military prowess, providing steady opposition against the fledgling Iraqi military. It is speculated that exile in the major cities exposed the Barzanis to the ideas of urban Kurdish nationalism.\n\nThe 1943–1945 Kurdish revolt in Iraq was a Kurdish nationalistic insurrection in the Kingdom of Iraq, during World War II. The revolt was led by Mustafa Barzani and later joined by his older brother Ahmed Barzani, the leader of the previous Kurdish revolt in the Kingdom of Iraq. The revolt, initiating in 1943, was eventually put down by Iraqi military assault in late 1945, combined with the defection of a number of Kurdish tribes. As a result, the Barzanis retreated with much of their forces into Iranian Kurdistan, joining the local Kurdish elements in establishing the Republic of Mahabad.\n\nAfter the military coup by Abdul Karim Qasim in 1958, Mustafa Barzani was invited by new Iraqi President Qasim to return from exile, and was greeted with a \"hero's welcome\", as a former dessident to the now abolished Iraqi monarchy. As part of the deal arranged between Qasim and Barzani, Qasim promised to give the Kurds regional autonomy in return for Barzani's support for his policies. Meanwhile, during 1959–60, Barzani became the head of the Kurdistan Democratic Party (KDP), which was granted legal status in 1960.\n\nFirst Iraqi–Kurdish War or Barazani Rebellion was a major event of the Iraqi–Kurdish conflict, lasting from 1961–1970. The struggle was led by Mustafa Barzani in an attempt to establish an independent Kurdish state in north Iraq. Throughout the 1960s the uprising escalated into a long war, which failed to resolve despite internal power changes in Iraq. The war ended with a stalemate by 1970, resulting in between 75,000 to 105,000 casualties. A series of Iraqi–Kurdish negotiations followed the war in an attempt to resolve the conflict.\n\nA Kurdish Autonomy agreement was reached in March 1970 by the Iraqi government and the Kurds, in the aftermath of the First Iraqi–Kurdish War, for the creation of an Autonomous Region, consisting of the three Kurdish governorates and other adjacent districts that have been determined by census to have a Kurdish majority. The plan also gave Kurds representation in government bodies, to be implemented in four years. For its time it was the most serious attempt to resolve the long-running conflict.\n\nSecond Iraqi–Kurdish War was an offensive, led by Iraqi forces against rebel KDP troops of Mustafa Barzani during 1974–75. The war came in the aftermath of the First Iraqi–Kurdish War (1961–70), as the 1970 peace plan for Kurdish autonomy had failed to be implemented by 1974. Unlike the previous guerilla campaign, waged by Barzani, the 1974 war was an attempt for symmetric warfare against the Iraqi Army, which eventually led to the quick collapse of the Kurds, lacking advanced and heavy weaponry. The war ended with the exile of the Iraqi KDP and between 7,000–20,000 deaths on both sides.\n\nThe PUK insurgency was a low-level militant campaign by the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan (PUK) against the state of Iraq, after the defeat of the Kurdistan Democratic Party (KDP) in the Second Iraqi–Kurdish War, which forced the KDP organization to declare a ceasefire and move into exile. Due to lack of foreign support, however, the guerrillas were only able to operate in the highest regions of Iraqi Kurdistan's mountains. The PUK also faced the KDP, the KDPI, led by Abdul Rahman Ghassemlou, and Iran supporting the Iraqis at various occasions. The insurgency dimmed with the 1979 Kurdish rebellion in Iran.\n\nBa'athist Arabization campaigns in North Iraq were forced displacement and cultural Arabization of minorities (Kurds, Yezidis, Assyrians, Shabaks, Armenians, Turkmen, Mandeans), in line with settler colonialist policies, led by the Ba'athist government of Iraq from 1960s to early 2000s, in order to shift the demographics of North Iraq towards Arab domination. The Baath party under Saddam Hussein engaged into active expulsion of minorities from the mid-1970s onwards. The campaigns took place during the Iraqi–Kurdish conflict, being largely motivated by the Kurdish-Arab ethnic and political conflict.\n\nThe policies are sometimes referred as \"internal colonialism\", described by Dr. Francis Kofi Abiew as a \"Colonial 'Arabization'\" program, including large-scale Kurdish deportations and forced Arab settlement in the region.\n\nBetween 1980 and 1988, the conflict intensified as the Iran–Iraq War commenced. One of the groups targeted in particular by Iraqi authorities were the Feyli Kurds, a community of Shi'ite Kurds settled in the southern area of the Zagros Mountains near Iraq's border with Iran. Saddam Hussein considered the group as 'Iranians' and began a campaign to drive the settlers out of the area as a part of his 'Arabization' policy in 1980., Saddam Hussein was severely critical of the Kurdistan Democratic Party (KDP) as they aligned forces with Iran in the conflict. In 1983, to avenge this liaison, he ordered the Army to abduct as many as 8,000 men and boys from Erbil province, where the clan of Barzani Kurds was based. Massoud Barzani, the leader of the clan and the KDP, himself lost 37 members of his family to the Iraqi troops. They were reported to having been sent to Nugra Salman prison in the southern deserts of Iraq, where they were tortured. Subsequently, the remains of 512 Barzani men were discovered in a mass grave. On March 16, 1988, Iraqi troops began shelling the Kurdish town of Halabja, in retaliation for an attack on Iraqi positions carried out by Iranian Revolutionary Guards and the aligned Peshmerga fighters. Subsequently, the town was attacked with a mix of chemical substances such as VX (nerve agent), sarin and mustard gas (see Halabja chemical attack). Over 5,000 people are believed to have been killed in the attack, which was considered to be a part of the Al-Anfal Campaign, directed against Kurds by the government under the command of Ali Hassan al-Majid, head of the Northern Bureau of the Ba'ath Party.\n\nOn 2 August 1990, Saddam launched a military invasion onto neighboring Kuwait, reportedly due to its vast oil reserves, which would have helped him pay off the debts he owed to other countries during the Iran–Iraq War (see Gulf War). Within 24 hours, the Emir of Kuwait had fled. However, subsequently, an international coalition force consisting of American, British, Saudi and other troops liberated the country in 1991 and Iraqi troops were forced out of Kuwait (see Operation Desert Storm). Subsequently, one month after the Gulf War in February 1991, United States President George H. W. Bush called on the Iraqi people to stage an uprising against Saddam Hussein. This was followed by a series of rebellions in many parts of the country, such as the south by Shi'ite groups such as SCIRI and the Islamic Da'awa Party. Meanwhile, the Kurds in the north staged their own uprising for autonomy, under the leadership of Massoud Barzani, leader of the Kurdistan Democratic Party, and Jalal Talabani, leader of the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan. The Peshmerga were trained into hardened guerrillas, who managed to infiltrate the Jash, a Saddam-orientated Kurdish militia (see Jash (term) and National Defense Battalions (Iraq)). The rebels soon managed to capture the town of Ranya, Sulaimaniya and ultimately the oil center of Kirkuk. Saddam retaliated swiftly, battering Kirkuk with artillery and targeting hospitals in particular. Geographically the towns captured by the Kurdish rebels were difficult to defend as they sat on plains below mountains. The rebels were forced to retreat in the mountains, where reportedly the Iraqi helicopters threw flour of them (which was believed to be a grim legacy of the reputed powdery chemical weapons which were used by the Iraqi administration during the Al-Anfal Campaign).\n\nThe Iraqi Kurdish Civil War was a military conflict, which took place between rival Kurdish factions in Iraqi Kurdistan in the mid-1990s, most notably the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan vs. the Kurdistan Democratic Party. Over the course of the conflict, Kurdish factions from Iran and Turkey, as well as Iranian, Iraqi and Turkish forces were drawn into the fighting, with additional involvement from the American forces. Between 3,000 and 5,000 fighters and civilians were killed throughout more than 3 years of warfare.\n\nArriving in July 2002 to Iraqi Kurdistan, the CIA seldom worked with the peshmerga, despite their claim to be on a counterterrorism mission against Ansar al-Islam. To the disappointment of PUK peshmerga intent on destroying Ansar al-Islam, the true mission of the CIA was to acquire intelligence about the Iraqi government and military. CIA-peshmerga operations eventually went beyond the scope of intelligence gathering however, as PUK peshmerga were used to destroy key rail lines and buildings prior to the U.S. attack in March 2003. Following Turkey's decision to deny any official use of its territory, the Coalition was forced to modify the planned simultaneous attack from north and south. Special Operations forces from the CIA and US Army managed to build and lead the Kurdish Peshmerga into an effective force and assault for the North.\n\nOn March 20, 2003 at approximately 02:30 UTC or about 90 minutes after the lapse of the 48-hour deadline, at 05:33 local time, explosions were heard in Baghdad, signing the beginning of the U.S. led invasion. Beginning on 21 March 2003, U.S. forces launched Tomahawk missiles at selected Ansar al-Islam positions throughout the Sargat Valley. In preparation for the ground assault, nicknamed Operation Viking Hammer, American Lt. Col. Tovo divided his forces into six mixed peshmerga-Special Forces units. The peshmerga in two of these teams refused to contribute to the assault for various reasons including having lost too many personnel in previous fighting. The peshmerga who did fight were once again armed with AK-47s, rocket-propelled grenades, and other assorted weapons.\n\nDespite their well-armed adversaries, during the operation only 24 peshmerga were killed in the fighting, compared to an enemy body count of over 300.\n\nTensions between Iraqi Kurdistan and the central Iraqi government mounted through 2011–2012 on the issues of power sharing, oil production and territorial control. On April 2012, the president of Iraq’s semi-autonomous northern Kurdish region demanded that officials agree to their demands or face consequences of a secession from Baghdad by September 2012.\n\nOn September 2012, Iraqi government ordered the Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG) to transfer its powers over Peshmerga to the central government and the relations strained further by the formation of a new command center (Tigris Operation Command) for Iraqi forces to operate in a disputed area over which both Baghdad and the Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG) claim jurisdiction.\n\nOn 16 November 2012, a military clash between the Iraqi forces and the Peshmerga resulted in one person killed. CNN reported that 2 people were killed (one of them an Iraqi soldier) and 10 wounded in clashes at the Tuz Khurmato town.\n\nOn the night of November 19, it was reported that clashes between security forces of the central Iraqi government and the KRG forces in Tigrit left 12 Iraqi soldiers and one civilian dead, according to Doğan news agency. The clash erupted when Iraqi soldiers attempted to enter northern Iraq; peshmargas tried to prevent the Iraqi soldiers from entering the area upon Barzani’s instructions. There was no confirmation of the event.\n\nOn November 25, it was reported that Iraqi Kurdistan sent reinforcements to a disputed area, where its troops are \"involved in a standoff with the Iraqi army\", despite calls on both sides for dialogue to calm the situation.\n\nOn December 11, Iraqi Kurdistan President Massoud Barzani, dressed in a military uniform, visited Kurdish-controlled areas of Kirkuk, a city long seen as a flashpoint for Arab-Kurdish tensions after the US military withdrawal in December 2011. Following Massoud Barzani's visit of Kurdish troops stationed in the disputed area near Kirkuk, Iraqi Prime Minister Maliki's party – The State of Law – issued a statement that \"the visit of the President of Kurdistan Region Massoud Barzani and his son wearing a military helmet to inspect the battlefronts in Kirkuk province is a 'declaration of war' on all Iraqis not only Maliki, and even on President Jalal Talabani\".\n\nIn 2014, Iraqi army units fled large parts of northern Iraq in the face of attacks by the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant. Peshmerga forces took control of Kirkuk and other Kurdish-populated areas outside the official territory of the KRG. Officials in Baghdad were angered by the sale of tankers worth of oil transported through the Kurdish pipeline.\n\nAfter holding an independence referendum on 15th October 2017, Iraqi authorities have warned the KRG to void and cancel the result of the referendum, but the Kurdistan authority does not follow the request, then after intense preparation between Iraq, Iarn, and Turkey, the Iraqi army conqured the area which is called a disputed territory.\n\n[a]. Iraqi–Kurdish conflict (combined casualty figure 163,800–345,100):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27689160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27689160", "title": "Kaamulan", "text": "Kaamulan\n\nKaamulan Festival is an ethnic cultural festival held annually in Malaybalay City, Bukidnon in the Philippines from the second half of February to March 10, the anniversary date of the foundation of Bukidnon as a province in 1917. It is held to celebrate the culture and tradition of the seven ethnic tribal groups—\"Bukidnon, Higaonon, Talaandig, Manobo, Matigsalug, Tigwahanon and Umayamnon\"—that originally inhabit the province. It is the only authentic ethnic festival in the Philippines.\n\nKaamulan comes from the \"Binukid\" word \"“amul”\" meaning to gather. Kaamulan is gathering for a purpose—a datuship ritual, a wedding ceremony, a thanksgiving festival during harvest time, a peace pact, or all of these together.\n\nKaamulan started as a festival on May 15, 1974, during the fiesta celebration of the then municipality of Malaybalay. A town official thought of inviting some indigenous people to town and made them perform a few dance steps at Plaza Rizal to enliven the fiesta celebration. The celebration however proved very popular and together with national coverage the Kaamulan festival has become the regional festival of Northern Mindanao, as declared by the Regional Development Council of Region 10 on September 16, 1977. Kaamulan was formerly held in the first week of September but in 1996, it was transferred to the present date to synchronize it with the foundation celebration of the province until in 2014 it was moved to the month of August in light of the 100th Founding Anniversary of Bukidnon. The festival was cited for having a great potential to be included in the UNESCO Intangible Cultural Heritage Lists.\n\n\nThe typical Indigenous People of this Province are broadly identified into two ethnical origins namely: the Bukidnon and the Manobo. The Bukideño have distinct physical characteristics whom may be describe as with slight build bodies, slanting eyelets, relatively high noses with lips that ranges from medium and brown to light skin color. They speak \"binukid\", which is distinctive with up and down tone unlike other dialects. While the Manobo is a Negrito mixture and resembles to have small bodies, dark skin, curly hair with broad to flat noses. Socially, the so-called Bukidnon live in the relative flatlands of the Bukidnon plateau and have already adopted Christian ways and utilized modern technology while the Manobos live in the mountains and do not want to mingle with the Christians and other people. It is believed that Bukidnon have a more advanced stage of development and who have developed their own culture and traditions.\n\nThe Bukidnon tribes were classified as lowlands and socially acculturated Christians adopting modern technology through educational enhancement. These are the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "54808534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54808534", "title": "List of solar eclipses visible from Australia", "text": "List of solar eclipses visible from Australia\n\nSolar eclipses visible from Australia are relatively common. A solar eclipse occurs when the Moon passes between Earth and the Sun, thereby totally or partially obscuring Earth's view of the Sun. The shadows of solar eclipses often cross the Australian continent due to its large area of over 7.6 million square kilometers. However a view of totality from the continent is rare, with totality occurring over the Australian continent only five times during the 20th century AD, although it is predicted to occur more frequently, eleven times, during the 21st century AD.\n\nTable of previous and next eclipses visible from all states and the Northern Territory; dates sourced from Time and Date AS.\nTotal solar eclipses visible on the Australian continent, 1800–2100.\nAnnular solar eclipses visible on the Australian continent, 1800–2100.\nSolar eclipses visible partially on the Australian continent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18085495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18085495", "title": "Massacre Day", "text": "Massacre Day\n\nMassacre Day was a holiday in Boston, Massachusetts, from 1771 to 1783. It was held on March 5, the anniversary of the 1770 Boston Massacre.\n\nEach year a featured speaker would deliver an oration to commemorate the massacre. The speech would subsequently be printed. James Lovell delivered the first speech in 1771. Dr. Joseph Warren delivered the Massacre Day oration in 1772 and 1775. Benjamin Church was the featured speaker in 1773, followed the next year by John Hancock. In emotional language, the early speeches reminded listeners of the killings of civilians in Boston by British soldiers while touching upon themes such as the dangers of standing armies in times of peace and opposition to the policies of the British Parliament that the speakers believed violated colonial rights.\n\nThe final observance of Massacre Day was in 1783. With the end of the American Revolutionary War and the securing of American independence, the Boston Board of Selectmen thought it was appropriate to replace the holiday with Independence Day, held on July 4 in honor of the Declaration of Independence. The final oration was delivered by the Rev. Dr. Thomas Welch and focused on the dangers of armies being garrisoned in cities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32179861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32179861", "title": "Mighty Sounds", "text": "Mighty Sounds\n\nMighty Sounds is a ska and punk rock festival in the Czech Republic. The festival first took place in 2005, in the village of Olší near Opařany, remaining at that location for its first five years, before moving to a disused airport in Tábor in 2010. In 2007 the festival attracted around 10,000 people, and in 2010 its attendance exceeded 12,000 people, making it one of the biggest festivals of its kind in Europe. \n\nThe festival is held over three days. Originally the festival featured one large stage and a second smaller one, plus a Theatre tent. Another smaller tent known as the \"Sado maso stage\" featured techno and drum'n'bass DJs. After heavy rain in 2009 festival site and a nearby campsite for visitors was damaged by mud, and the owner of the site did not renew the contract for next event. Mighty Sounds moved to an unused grass-covered airfield in Tábor for the 2010 event. The festival subsequently featured two large stages, called the Jan Hus and Jan Zizka stages. Other stages include: a Theater tent, where less-known bands perform; the Radio 1 stage, which features electronic music DJs; and the Rudeboy Rhythm stage, which features DJs playing older ska, reggae, rocksteady and punk music. The festival also features a u-ramp for skateboarders and BMX riders, workshops, and special events, alongside normal festival amenities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44595248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44595248", "title": "Mobile Motion Film Festival", "text": "Mobile Motion Film Festival\n\nThe Mobile Motion Film Festival is a new film festival in Switzerland. The festival was founded in 2014 by Andrea Holle and Simon Horrocks, with money raised via kickstarter.com. To be selected for the festival films must have been shot using smartphones or other mobile devices and must be no longer than 10 minutes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13967943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13967943", "title": "Montol Festival", "text": "Montol Festival\n\nThe Montol Festival is an annual festival in Penzance, Cornwall, UK, held on the 21st of December each year since 2007. The festival is a revival or reinterpretation of many of the traditional Cornish midwinter customs & Christmas traditions formerly practiced in and around the Penzance area and common to much of Cornwall at one point. Montol is held on the traditional date of the feast of St Thomas the Apostle, usually the 21st of December, which always coincides with the winter solstice.\n\nEdward Lhuyd, in his 1700 MSS of vocabulary in the Cornish language, states that \"Montol\" means 'winter solstice'. However, he later translates the word as 'balance' (in Latin, \"Trutina\" – 'a set of scales').\n\nAt the very core of the festival are several of the revived customs of the West Cornwall area including, predominantly, Guise dancing, the masked celebrations common to Cornwall in the 19th century, the Cornish candle dance (Dons Cantol) in revived Cornish and the performance of traditional Guisers plays such as \"St George and the Turkish Knight\" or \"Buffy and the Bucca\". Cornish Christmas carols also feature during the festivities. The \"Chalking of the Mock\", a Cornish Yule Log custom usually found in pubs or homes on Christmas Eve, is part of the climax of the celebrations, usually happening at 10pm near the dock area of the town.\n\nThe historical basis for many of the customs described above is taken from the texts of notable Cornish antiquarians and contemporary research into the subject. A. K. Hamilton Jenkin in his book \"Cornish Homes and Customs\" describes the Guise dance processions and performances of 1831 as \"like an Italian carnival\" and further noted that \"everyone including the rich and the great came masked and disguised on to the streets\". However, he does not give a reference for this quote.\n\nA detailed description of the Penzance Guise dancers is given by William Bottrell in his book \"Traditions and Hearthside Stories of West Cornwall\" (1870–80): \n\nThe main event of the festival is Montol Eve, on the 21st of December every year. During the evening large Guiser processions can be seen through the town, carrying lanterns, wearing masks and traditional costumes. Early in the evening a Lord of Misrule is chosen from among the masked revellers. The Lord of Misrule leads the main processions and has certain honorary functions, although there is no historical basis for this part of the event prior to 2007; there are no historical references to a Lord of Misrule in Penzance or Cornwall. A number of other \"Mock leader\" customs can also be seen during the evening, including the \"Master of the Corn-Market\" followed by the Corn-Market revellers. These groups take their inspiration from descriptions of the similarly named groups early in the 19th century.\n\nLater on the appearance of the \"Montol Oss\" occurs in several locations throughout the town, culminating in the ceremony of the chalking of the Mock. The Mock is the Cornish Yule Log; a member of the public is chosen to mark the Mock with a stick man. In tradition, this represents either the Christ Child or Old Father Time marking the death of the year, or the celebration of the birth of Christ, \"the light of the world\". Some suggest that this very old Cornish imagery may have some connection to the sacrificial nature of the Roman Saturnalia; the likelihood of this is open to question. A great deal of Cornish dance and music is performed during the evening, often in an improvised and impromptu manner. The symbols of the festival are the spear and square of St Thomas, and the \"Sun Resplendent\", a traditional image used by Guise dancers.\n\nDuring the festival there are a series of workshops dedicated to the making of lanterns and costumes which are used in a large public parade on 21 December in Penzance Town Centre, followed by the lighting of the midwinter fire (the location of which depends on the year in question).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15099488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15099488", "title": "Murder of Pai Hsiao-yen", "text": "Murder of Pai Hsiao-yen\n\nPai Hsiao-yen (; 23 June 1980 – 20 April 1997) was the only daughter of popular Taiwanese TV host and actress Pai Bing-bing and Japanese author Ikki Kajiwara.\n\nPai Hsiao-yen disappeared after leaving for her school, Hsing Wu High School, on the morning of April 14, 1997. Her family received a ransom request of along with a severed piece of her little finger and a photograph of a bound girl.\n\nPress in Taiwan first reported the incident on April 23, 1997, which contradicted the accepted practice of reporting the kidnapping after its resolution. Some of the pre-planned ransom drops were aborted when kidnappers spotted police and media tailing Pai Bing-bing. However, after the abductors negotiated with the police for 11 days and changed the locations of payment more than 20 times, the police finally decoded the communication methods used by the abductors. In the subsequent police raid, one suspect was arrested while two others escaped after an intense gun fight with the police.\n\nPai Hsiao-yen's mutilated body, weighted down with dumbbells, was found in a drainage ditch on April 28, 1997. Investigators said that she had been dead for ten days before her body's discovery. Ransom negotiations had continued after the likely time of Pai's death; an impersonator placed a telephone call to give Pai Bing-bing the impression that her daughter was alive. Tim Healy and Laurie Underwood of \"Asiaweek\" said that Pai was \"apparently tortured\" before her death. The photograph of her naked dead body was leaked to the mass media, including the \"China Times\", which printed it.\n\nTwelve accessories were arrested, but three of the main criminals, (), Lin Chun-sheng (), and Kao Tien-min () escaped. A fourth person, Chang Chih-hui (, Chen's brother-in-law) was suspected of involvement, but his sentence was eventually overturned due to insufficient evidence. An island-wide manhunt began and the police were ordered to shoot the suspects without warning if they showed any sign of resistance.\n\nWhile being pursued, the trio abducted Taipei County councilor Tsai Ming-tang in June 1997 and a businessman surnamed Chen in August 1997. On August 19, the trio was spotted by two foot patrol police officers on Wuchang Street (五常街) in Taipei's Zhongshan District. A brief exchange of fire ensued and Lin turned the gun on himself after he was shot six times; one of the officers was killed and the other one was wounded. Lin died around 11:55 AM. Reinforcement was immediately rushed to the neighborhood, and more than 800 officers conducted a thorough search, which turned up nothing.\n\nOn October 23, Kao and Chen shot and killed a plastic surgeon, his wife, and a nurse after forcing them to perform plastic surgery on them. Kao and Chen eluded a massive police search in early November 1997. A few days later, Kao was spotted by the police and shot himself when police attempted to arrest him on November 17.\n\nThe last criminal, Chen Chin-hsing, broke into the residence of Colonel Edward McGill Alexander, South African military attaché to Taipei, and took the family hostage on November 18, but eventually surrendered to the police after negotiation initiated by politician Frank Hsieh. After being granted media access, Chen confessed to the April kidnapping and other crimes. Chen was executed on October 6, 1999, after being convicted in December 1998 for kidnappings, murders, and multiple counts of sexual assaults.\n\nDemonstrators marched on and , demanding Premier Lien Chan's resignation, partially over the rise in violent crime as evidenced by the then-unsolved murders of Pai, Peng Wan-ru and Liu Pang-yu. Eight media organizations, including the \"China Times\", which ran the photograph of Pai's body, were condemned during the first protest.\n\nPresident Lee Teng-hui offered an apology on , stating Lien would be relieved of his duty as premier and the Cabinet would be reshuffled. Ma Ying-jeou, who was serving as Minister without Portfolio, resigned following the first protest. Lin Fong-cheng, who was serving as Minister of the Interior, also resigned his post following the first protest. Lien Chan resigned his post as Premier on , as did the director-general of the National Police Agency, Yao Kao-chiao. Lien had repeatedly offered to resign from his other office as Vice President in the wake of the protests; eventually he retained this office until the term ended.\n\n"}
{"id": "2508060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2508060", "title": "One World Film Festival", "text": "One World Film Festival\n\nOne World (Czech: \"Jeden Svět\") is the biggest human rights film festival in the world, held annually in Prague and other cities of the Czech Republic, with a selection later shown in Brussels and other countries.\n\nEstablished in 1999 by Igor Blaževič and the Czech NGO People in Need, the One World Festival presents over 100 documentary films during nine days in Spring from around the world. It is a founding member of the Human Rights Film Network, which brings together 33 festivals around the world.\n\nIn 2006, the festival received a Special Mention from UNESCO for its contribution to human rights and peace education. Three years later, in 2009, One World published a handbook entitled Setting Up a Human Rights Film Festival, which offers practical advice as well as case studies of prominent human rights events.\n\nIn 2011, the One World Festival was in its 13th year and took place from 8 – 17 March, presenting 104 documentaries from more than 40 countries around the world. The festival seeks to promote the best quality documentary films on social and political issues. Furthermore, it has been held in 33 other towns and cities throughout the Czech Republic. A selection of One World films was also presented in Brussels. One World was held under the auspices of Václav Havel, the Minister of Foreign Affairs Karel Schwarzenberg, the Minister of Culture Jiří Besser, and the Mayor of Prague Bohuslav Svoboda.\n\nDuring the festival, People in Need grants the annual Homo Homini Award to individuals in recognition of a dedication to promote human rights, democracy and nonviolent solutions to political conflicts. The 2011 award went to the underground network of Syrian doctors, Doctors Coordinate of Damascus, for their work in aiding victims of violence in Syria.\n\n\"Winners of the Homo Homini Award\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "30456462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30456462", "title": "Punjabi festivals", "text": "Punjabi festivals\n\nPunjabi festivals are various festive celebrations observed by Punjabis in Pakistan, India and the diaspora Punjabi community found worldwide. The Punjabis are a diverse group of people from different religious background that affects the festivals they observe. According to a 2007 estimate, the total population of Punjabi Muslims is about 90 million (~75% of all Punjabis), with 97% of Punjabis who live in Pakistan following Islam, in contrast to the remaining 30 million Punjabi Sikhs and Punjabi Hindus who predominantly live in India.\n\nThe Punjabi Muslims typically observe the Islamic festivals, do not observe Hindu or Sikh religious festivals, and in Pakistan the official holidays recognize only the Islamic festivals. The Punjabi Sikhs and Hindus typically do not observe these, and instead observe historic festivals such as Lohri, Basant and Baisakhi as seasonal festivals. The Sikh and Hindu festivals are regional official holidays in India, as are major Islamic festivals. Other seasonal Punjabi festivals in India include Teejon (Teeyan) and Maghi.\n\nThe Punjabi Muslim festivals are set according to the lunar Islamic calendar (Hijri), and the date falls earlier by 10 to 13 days from year to year. The Hindu and Sikh Punjabi seasonal festivals are set on specific dates of the luni-solar Bikrami calendar or Punjabi calendar and the date of the festival also typically varies in the Gregorian calendar but stays within the same two Gregorian months.\n\nSome Punjabi Muslims participate in the traditional, seasonal festivals of the Punjab region: Baisakhi, Basant and to a minor scale Lohri, but this is controversial. Islamic clerics and some politicians have attempted to ban this participation because of the religious basis of the Punjabi festivals, and they being declared haram (forbidden in Islam).\n\nPunjabi Buddhists are a minority in Punjab, India. In the Punjab province of Pakistan, the Buddhist population is negligible. \n\nPunjabi Buddhists celebrate festivals such as Buddha Jayanti.\n\n Christians are a minority in Pakistan, constituting about 2.3% of its population in contrast to 97.2% Muslims. In Indian state of Punjab, Christians form about 1.1% of its total population, while the predominant majority of the population being Sikh and Hindus. Punjabi Christians celebrate Christmas to mark the birth of Jesus. In Punjab, Pakistan, people stay up late singing Punjabi Christmas carol services. People attend churches in places such as Gurdaspur, Amritsar, Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur districts in Punjab, India that have a higher Christian population, to be part of Christmas celebrations. Christians also celebrate Easter by engaging in processions.\n\nHoli is the spring Hindu festival of colours which is celebrated by throwing colours on each other. The festival is celebrated on the first day of the Punjabi lunar month of Chet and marks the Spring season. The festival is primarily celebrated by Hindus. But Sikhs also participate in the festival which is seasonal in its significance and secular in its celebration.\n\nIn the Indian state of Punjab, Holi is preceded by Holika Dahan the night before. On the day of Holi, people engage in throwing colours on each other.\n\nDuring Holi in Punjab, walls and courtyards of rural houses are enhanced with drawings and paintings similar to rangoli in South India, \"mandana\" in Rajasthan, and rural arts in other parts of India. This art is known as \"chowk-poorana\" or \"chowkpurana\" in Punjab and is given shape by the peasant women of the state. In courtyards, this art is drawn on cloth. The art includes drawing tree motifs, flowers, ferns, creepers, plants, peacocks, palanquins, geometric patterns along with vertical, horizontal and oblique lines. These arts add to the festive atmosphere.\nLohri is a popular winter time Punjabi folk festival, celebrated primarily by Sikhs and Hindus from the Punjab region of Indian subcontinent. According to Chauhan (1995), all Punjabis, including Muslims and Christians celebrate Lohri in Punjab, India. Lohri is celebrated on the last day of the month of poh (January).\n\nMany people believe the festival commemorates the passing of the winter solstice. Lohri is observed the night before Makar Sankranti, also known as Maghi, and according to the solar part of the lunisolar Bikrami calendar and typically falls about the same date every year (January 13).\n\nLohri is an official gazetted holiday in the state of Punjab (India), but it is not a holiday in Punjab (Pakistan). It is, however, observed by Sikhs and some Punjabi Muslims and Christians in Pakistan as well.\n\nMaghi is a Sikh festival and one of their largest annual gatherings near Gurudwaras. The same festival is called Makar Sankranti by Hindus, who gather near Hindu temples. The \"Magha Mela\", according to Diana L. Eck – a professor at Harvard University specializing in Indology, is mentioned in the Hindu epic, the \"Mahabharata\", thus placing this festival to be around 2,000 years old. Many go to sacred rivers or lakes and bathe with thanksgiving to the sun.\n\nPeople visit the Gurdwara or the Mandir. The festival marks the increase in daylight. Maghi is celebrated by people eating kheer such as Rauh di kheer which is an old dish where rice is cooked in sugarcane juice. The dish is prepared in the evening before Maghi and is kept to cool. It is served cold next morning on Maghi with red-chilly mixed curd. In some parts of Punjab, India, it is also traditional to eat kichdi mixed with lentils, consume raw sugarcane and jaggery, Fairs are held at many places on Maghi. Sports festivals are also held in the region.\nBasant Festival is an ancient Hindu spring festival dedicated to god Kama as well as goddess Saraswati. Its link with the Hindu god of love and its traditions have led some scholars to call it \"a Hindu form of Valentine's Day\". The festival is also observed by Punjabi Sikhs. The traditional colour of the day is yellow and the dish of the day is saffron rice. People fly kites.\n\nIn North India, and in the Punjab province of Pakistan, Basant is celebrated as a spring festival of kites. The festival marks the commencement of the spring season. In the Punjab region (including the Punjab province of Pakistan), Basant Panchami has been a long established tradition of flying kites and holding fairs.\n\nPunjabi Muslims have treated parts of the festival as a cultural event. In Pakistan however kite flying has been banned starting in 2007 with officials stating that it uses dangerous, life-threatening substances on the strings. The festival ban was confirmed by the Pakistan Punjab state chief minister Shehbaz Sharif in 2017. According to some analysts, \"the festival was banned due to pressure from hardline religious and extremist groups like the Hafiz Saeed-led Jamaat-ud Dawah, which claimed the festival had “Hindu origins” and was “un-Islamic”.\n\nVaisakhi is a religious festival of Sikhs and Hindus. Vaisakhi is also a harvest festival for people of the Punjab region. In the Punjab, Vaisakhi marks the ripening of the rabi harvest. Vaisakhi also marks the new year for Punjabi Sikhs and Hindus. Punjabi Muslims observe the new year according to the Islamic calendar. \n\nThe harvest festival is celebrated by Punjabi Sikhs and Hindus. \n\nAccording to Aziz-ud-din Ahmed, Lahore used to have Baisakhi Mela after the harvesting of the wheat crop in April. However, adds Ahmed, the city started losing its cultural vibrancy in 1970s after Zia-ul-Haq came to power, and in recent years \"the Pakistan Muslim League (N) government in Punjab banned kite flying through an official edict more under the pressure of those who want a puritanical version of Islam to be practiced in the name of religion than anything else\". Unlike the Indian state of Punjab that recognizes the Vaisakhi Sikh festival as an official holiday, the festival is not an official holiday in Punjab or Sindh provinces of Pakistan where Islamic holidays are officially recognized instead. However, On 8 April 2016, Punjabi Parchar at Alhamra (Lahore) organised a show called Visakhi mela, where the speakers pledged to \"continue our struggle to keep the Punjabi culture alive\" in Pakistan through events such as Visakhi Mela. Elsewhere Besakhi fairs or melas are held in various places including Eminabad and Dera Ghazi Khan.\n\nTeeyan welcomes the monsoon season and the festival officially starts of the day of Teej and last for 13 days. The seasonal festival involves women and girls dancing Gidha and visiting family. The festival is observed in Punjab, India. \n\nThe festival is celebrated during the monsoon season from the third day of the lunar month of Sawan on the bright half, up to the full moon of sawan, by women. Married women go to their maternal house to participate in the festivities. In the past, it was traditional for women to spend the whole month of Sawan with their parents.\n\nTeej is historically a Hindu festival, dedicated to Goddess Parvati and her union with Lord Shiva, one observed in northern, western, central and Himalayan regions of the Indian subcontinent.\n\nOther festivals observed by Punjabi Hindus and Sikhs include Diwali, Dussehra, Rama Navami, Bandi Chhor Divas and Gurpurabs. Raksha Bandhan in the Punjab is known as 'Rakhri' and is celebrated as a brothers and sisters day.\n\nThe following religious festivals are observed by Punjabi Muslims.\n\nEid ul-Adha is also known as Eid-ul-Azha. The festival is celebrated on the tenth day of the last Islamic month of Zilhij. Eid-ul-Azha occurs about two months after Eid-ul-Fitr. Eid-ul-Azha is celebrated to commemorate the occasion when the prophet Abraham was ready to sacrifice his son, Ismail, on God's command. Abraham was awarded by God by replacing Ismail with a goat. Muslims make pilgrimage (hajj) to Mecca during this time.\n\nAnimal sacrifice is a tradition offered by Muslims on this day. Special markets are set up to deal with the increase in demand of animals. Cattle markets are set up in places such as Multan, (Punjab, Pakistan) and goat markets in Ludhiana, (Punjab, India). The children celebrate Eid ul-Adha and Eid ul-Fitr with great pump and show and receive gifts and Eidi (money) from parents and others.\n\nEid al-Fitr takes place on the first day of the tenth month of the Islamic lunar calendar and celebrates the end of Ramadan. Ramadan is the time of fasting that continues throughout the ninth month. On this day, after a month of fasting, Muslims express their joy and happiness by offering a congregational prayer in the mosques. Special celebration meals are served. The festival is celebrated in Punjab, Pakistan. It is also celebrated in Malerkotla (Punjab, India) which has a sizable Muslim population where Sikhs and Hindus also participate in the observance.\n\nEid-e-Milad-un- Nabi is an Islamic festival which is celebrated in honour of the birth-day of Prophet Muhammad. The festival is observed in the third month of the Islamic lunar calendar called Rabi'al-Awal. Various processions take place in Lahore to celebrate the festival. According to Nestorovic (2016), hundreds of thousands of people gather at Minare-Pakistan, Lahore, between the intervening night of 11th and 12th Rabi' al-awwal of the Islamic calendar Eid Milad Dun Nabi. The festival was declared a national holiday in Pakistan in 1949. \n\nPeople from various places in Punjab, Pakistan including Bahawalpur, Faisalabad, Multan and Sargodha participate in processions and engage in decorating Mosques, streets and houses with green flags and lights. According to Khalid, children, teenagers and young adults decorate their Pahari (mountain) of all sorts of toys, including cars, stereos, and numerous other commodities. Within various places of Lahore, there are numerous stalls. Before the festival became a celebratory day, people used to celebrate the day quietly. However, the first procession to mark the day was led from Delhi gate in Lahore in 1935. This tradition then became popular elsewhere. Processions are also taken out in Bathinda (Punjab, India).\n\nRemembrance of Muharram is a set of rituals associated with Shia, which takes place in Muharram, the first month of the Islamic calendar. Many of the events associated with the ritual take place in congregation halls known as \"Hussainia\". The event marks the anniversary of the Battle of Karbala when Imam Hussein ibn Ali, the grandson of Muhammad, was killed by the forces of the second Umayyad caliph Yazid I at Karbala. Family members, accompanying Hussein ibn Ali, were killed or subjected to humiliation. The commemoration of the event during yearly mourning season, from first of Muharram to twentieth of Safar with Ashura comprising the focal date, serves to define Shia communal identity.\n\nIn Pakistani Punjab, Muharram is celebrated twice, once according to the Muslim year and again on the 10th of harh. \n\nTraditionally, a white horse representing Ali's white Mule Duldul, is usually lead in the Muharram procession, as in Jhang, Punjab, Pakistan. Zuljanah, Tazia and Alam processions are observed in many places in Punjab, Pakistan including Sialkot, Gujranwala, Bahawalnagar, Sargodha, Bahawalpur. and Lahore.\n\nZuljanah processions are held which involves taking a replica of a horse. The Zuljanah has two wings and the processions were introduced from Iran to Lahore during the 19th century.\n\nShia Muslims take out a Tazia procession on the day of Ashura. \nSuch processions take place in Lahore where mourners take to the streets to commemorate the sacrifices of Imam Hussain and his family in Karbala. Various stalls are set up offering milk, water and tea along the route of the processions. Some distribute juice packets, dry fruit, sweetmeats and food among mourners. Tazia processions can also be seen in Malerkotla and Delhi.\n\nAlam processions take place in Punjab, Pakistan too. Alam is an elaborate, heavy battle standard, carried by a standard bearer, alam-dar, ahead of the procession. It represents Imam Hussain’s standard and is revered as a sacred object.\n\nVarious local fairs and festivals are associated with particular shrines, temples and gurdwaras.\nMela Chiraghan (Festival of Lights) is a three-day annual festival to mark the urs (death anniversary) of the Punjabi Sufi poet and saint Shah Hussain (1538-1599) who lived in Lahore in the 16th century. It takes place at the shrine of Shah Hussain in Baghbanpura, on the outskirts of Lahore, Pakistan, adjacent to the Shalimar Gardens.\n\nRath Yatra Nabha, Ratha Jatra or Chariot Festival is a Hindu festival associated with the god Jagannath held at Mandir Thakur Shri Saty Narayan Ji in the Nabha City, state of Punjab, India. This annual festival is celebrated in the month of August or September. The festival is connected to Jagannath's visit to Nabha city.\nA fair is held at Anandpur Sahib (Punjab, India) during the lunar month of Chet to celebrate the Sikh festival of Hola Mohalla. The fair is held on a very large scale every year on the day following Holi. Thousands of devotees come from all parts of the country to pay their homage to Guru Gobind Singh.\n"}
{"id": "21994540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21994540", "title": "Real Women Have Curves (play)", "text": "Real Women Have Curves (play)\n\nReal Women Have Curves is a stage play by Josefina López and is set in a tiny sewing factory in East Los Angeles in September 1987. It is marked by the issues of gender politics and the Latina immigrant experience. The story is told from the point of view of Ana, the youngest employee at the factory. Ambitious and bright, Ana yearns to go to college, but does not have the money. The action follows the course of a week at the factory, as the women talk about their lives, loves and deepest desires while attempting to meet impossible production deadlines.\n\nIn the playwright's notes, López writes about how she grew up in Los Angeles herself. With the threat of \"La Migra\" looming over her childhood, she once saw a meter maid in a corner store and immediately attempted to \"act white\" out of fear that the official looking person could deport her. After the 1987 Simpson-Rodino Amnesty Act, López was able to become a legal resident. She reflects on the undocumented people she knew who were afraid to register themselves for fear that the act was a trick. \"They, like me, couldn't believe that after hiding and being persecuted for so long they were finally going to have the freedom to live and work in this country.\" She recounts that before she went to college she worked in a garment factory; those experiences inspired \"Real Women Have Curves\".\n\nIn 2002, the play was adapted into a film of the same name, directed by Patricia Cardoso and starring America Ferrera as Ana.\n\n"}
{"id": "4332911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4332911", "title": "RiverRun International Film Festival", "text": "RiverRun International Film Festival\n\nThe RiverRun International Film Festival is a regional film festival held annually each spring in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. The festival is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization and presents a variety of feature-length and short films from all genres, and also presents special events, regional premieres of significant films, celebrity tributes, family events and classic retrospectives as well as panel discussions and parties.\n\nFounded in 1998 by Gennaro and Beth D'Onofrio, the RiverRun International Film Festival got its name from the French Broad River near Brevard, North Carolina, where the festival was originally held. In 2003, Dale Pollock, a former film producer and then-Dean of the School of Filmmaking at the University of North Carolina School of the Arts, moved RiverRun to Winston-Salem, where it resides today as an independent arts organization dedicated to showcasing the best new films from independent, international and student filmmakers.\n\nFestival Dates/Locations:\n"}
{"id": "47488866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47488866", "title": "Sango Festival", "text": "Sango Festival\n\nSango Festival is an annual festival held among the Yoruba people in honour of Sango, a thunder and fire deity who was a warrior and the third king of the Oyo Empire after succeeding Ajaka his elder brother. Renamed in 2013 to World Sango Festival by the government of Oyo State, the festival is usually held in August at the palace of the Alaafin of Oyo and also observed in over forty countries around the world.\n\nThe Sango Festival celebrations can be traced back to 1,000 years ago following the departure of Sango, a popular Yoruba \"Òrìşà\" who is widely regarded as the founding father of present-day Oyo State.\n\nSango was a notable strong ruler and magician who became king of the Oyo Empire after succeeding his elder brother who was perceived to be a \"weak ruler\". Believed to bring prosperity to the people of the Oyo Empire during his reign, Sango's death has been linked to different mythical stories. It is believed that Sango committed suicide by hanging himself in order to avoid humiliation from one of his powerful chiefs who ordered Sango to vacate his throne or face war.\n\nSince its renaming in 2013, the event which is usually held in August and runs for a week attracts over 20,000 spectators around the world including Brazil, Cuba, Trinidad and Tobago and the Caribbean. The event which is recognized by UNESCO, is organized to facilitate the home-coming of the Yorubas in the diaspora and also celebrate Sango who is regarded as the greatest hero in the history of the Yoruba race.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20362408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20362408", "title": "Semustine", "text": "Semustine\n\nSemustine is a drug used in chemotherapy.\nIt is structurally similar to lomustine, being distinguished from it only by an additional methyl group. It has been taken off the drug market for investigation of its cancerous effects, rated as IARC Group 1 carcinogen or a known carcinogen.\n"}
{"id": "262880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=262880", "title": "Stanley Clifford Weyman", "text": "Stanley Clifford Weyman\n\nStanley Clifford Weyman (November 25, 1890 – August 27, 1960), was an American multiple impostor who impersonated public officials, including the United States Secretary of State and various military officers.\n\nWeyman was born as Stanley Jacob Weinberg on November 25, 1890 in Brooklyn, New York. His parents could not afford college tuition. He worked mainly in nondescript jobs but on occasion ventured to become somebody in the higher social ladder.\n\nIn 1910, Weyman's first imposture was as US consul representative to Morocco who dined in the finest restaurants of New York City. He was eventually arrested for fraud.\n\nNext Weyman took a role of both a military attaché from Serbia and a US Navy lieutenant so the identities could use each other as a reference. He was soon caught.\n\nWeyman was released the second time in 1915. He then became Lt Commander Ethan Allen Weinberg, consul general for Romania. He inspected the \"USS Wyoming\" and invited everyone to a dinner in the Astor Hotel. The advance publicity alerted the Bureau of Investigation and federal agents arrested him at the party. He was heard to complain that they should have waited until dessert. He got a year in jail.\n\nIn 1917 he took the mantle of Royal St. Cyr, a lieutenant in the Army Air Corps. He was arrested when he was on an inspection tour in the Brooklyn armory because a suspicious military tailor had alerted the police.\n\nWeyman was paroled in 1920. Shortly afterwards he forged credentials to become a company doctor in Lima, Peru. There he threw lavish parties until his credit ran out and he was arrested.\n\nIn 1921 he noticed Princess Fatima of Afghanistan who was visiting the US and was trying to get an official recognition. The US State Department mainly ignored her. Weyman visited her as a State Department Naval Liaison Officer, apologized for the oversight and promised to arrange an appointment with the president. He managed to convince the princess to give him $10,000 for \"presents\" to State Department officials. He used the money for a private railway carriage to Washington DC and an opulent hotel room in the Willard Hotel for the princess and his entourage.\n\nWeyman proceeded to visit the State Department, dropped names of prominent senators and succeeded in getting the appointment, first with Secretary of State Charles Evans Hughes, and on July 26, 1921 president Warren G. Harding received Princess Fatima. Weyman's minor mistakes in the protocol aroused some suspicion, but when the press released his picture alongside the other dignitaries, the jig was up. He was indicted for impersonating a naval officer and sentenced to two years in jail.\n\nIn one case the \"Evening Graphic\" newspaper called for Weyman to get an interview with the visiting Queen Marie of Romania. He gained admittance as the Secretary of State and the paper got its interview.\n\nIn 1926 Weyman appeared at Rudolph Valentino's funeral and attached himself to his grieving lover Pola Negri as a personal physician. He issued regular press releases on her condition and established a faith-healing clinic in Valentino's house. Pola Negri did not condemn him after he was exposed.\n\nDuring World War II Weyman was sentenced for seven years in prison for offering advice to draft dodgers—he told them to feign various medical conditions.\n\nIn 1948 Weyman made up credentials to become a journalist for the United Nations at Lake Success. He got acquainted with the delegates Warren Austin and Andrei Gromyko. His comeuppance came when the Thai delegation invited him to become their press officer with full diplomatic accreditation. Weyman contacted the State Department and asked whether it would affect his US citizenship. They already knew him all too well and exposed him.\n\nIn 1954 Weyman tried to get a $5000 home improvement loan for a house that did not exist. He failed to convince the judge that he was insane.\n\nIn August 1960, Weyman was fatally shot when he tried to stop a robbery in a New York hotel where he was working as a night porter. The investigating detective said \"I've known about the man's past record for years. He did a lot of things in the course of his life, but what he did this time was brave.\"\n\n\"\"One man's life is a boring thing. I lived many lives. I'm never bored.\" \"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55835433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55835433", "title": "Tamara Pamyatnykh", "text": "Tamara Pamyatnykh\n\nTamara Pamyatnykh (1919-2012) was a fighter pilot for the Soviet Air Forces during the Second World War. Following an action while on patrol on 19 March 1943, she was awarded the Order of the Red Banner.\n\nPamyatnykh began flying gliders at 16, and soon qualified for a private pilot's license and instructor's certificate at the flight school in Ulyanovsk. When the Second World War began, she signed up for the Soviet forces. When Marina Raskova was asked to recruit female pilots in 1941, Pamyatnykh was sufficiently well-known as a pilot that she was specifically approached.\n\nShe underwent further flight training in Engels, Saratov Oblast in October 1941, and was subsequently assigned to the 586th Fighter Squadron alongside other female aces such as Lydia Litvyak, and worked as a duo with Galina Burdina. As a junior lieutenant, Pamyatnykh was on patrol with Raisa Surnachevskaya over a railway junction on 19 March 1943. Faced with an attack by 42 Junkers bombers, the two pilots attacked with the sun behind them. Each shot down two bombers each, with Pamyatnykh continuing to fight until she ran out of ammunition. She decided to take out a third bomber by ramming it, but as she got close, one of her wings was shot off and she spun out of control. She bailed out and parachuted to the ground. The nearby locals were shocked when they rushed to help and discovered that she was a woman. She was taken back to base, where Pamyatnykh learnt that the German attack had been prevented as the rest of the force had turned back. For her heroism, Pamyatnykh was awarded the Order of the Red Banner and given a gold watch by King George VI of the United Kingdom.\n\nDuring another mission she was downed by friendly fire. In 1944, she married a squadron commander named Nikolai from the same regiment. They both survived the war, although he spent some time in a Nazi concentration camp. Following the end of the war, they had three children. Pamyatnykh later went on to become the chairman of the women's war veterans' commission.\n"}
{"id": "26745726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26745726", "title": "Tata Vasco (opera)", "text": "Tata Vasco (opera)\n\nTata Vasco is an opera in five scenes composed by Miguel Bernal Jiménez to a Spanish libretto with nationalistic and devoutly Roman Catholic themes by the Mexican priest and poet, Manuel Muñoz. It premiered in Pátzcuaro, Mexico on 15 February 1941. The opera is based on the life of Vasco de Quiroga, the first Bishop of Michoacán and known to the Indians of the region as 'Tata Vasco'. Considered one of Bernal Jiménez's most emblematic scores, the music incorporates native melodies, dances, and instruments as well as elements of Gregorian chant.\n\nDescribed as a \"drama sinfónico\" (symphonic drama), \"Tata Vasco\" was the first and only opera by Bernal Jiménez and composed when he was 30 years old. It was to be part of the celebrations for the 400th anniversary of Vasco de Quiroga's arrival in Pátzcuaro and was set to a libretto in rhyming verse by Manuel Muñoz Mendoza, a Catholic priest, poet, and writer who lived in Morelia, the composer's native city. The world premiere was originally planned for 1940 at the Palacio de Bellas Artes in Mexico City but was postponed due to fears that it would \"provoke religious controversy\". Instead, it premiered on 15 February 1941 in a performance conducted by the composer in the ruins of the Franciscan monastery chapel in Pátzcuaro.\n\nThe opera had its Mexico City premiere at the Teatro Arbeu on 15 March 1941 and in September of that year was performed to great enthusiasm in Morelia. It was performed in 1943 at the Teatro Degollado in Guadalajara and in 1948 had its Spanish premiere, when at the invitation of General Franco, a reduced oratorio version was performed in Madrid. Part of Spain's commemorations for the 400th anniversary of the death of Hernán Cortés, the Madrid performance met with considerable success. On 29 September 1949, eight years after its premiere, \"Tata Vasco\" was finally staged at the Palacio de Bellas Artes where it was given a run of two performances, both conducted by the composer. The opera was revived there in 1975, 1992 (in concert version), and in 2006 to mark the 50th anniversary of the composer's death.\n\n\"Tata Vasco\" was given two performances by the National Opera Company of Mexico at the Teatro de la Ciudad de Mexico in February 2010, the year which marks not only the bicentenary of the Mexican War of Independence and the centenary of the Mexican Revolution but also the 100th anniversary of the composer's birth.\n\nThe opera is scored for: 2 flutes, 1 piccolo, 2 oboes, 1 cor anglais, 2 clarinets, 1 bass clarinet, 2 bassoons, 4 French horns, 3 trumpets, 3 trombones, tuba, harp, piano, celesta, cymbals, drum, timbales, bombo (type of bass drum), pandero (type of frame drum), gong, glockenspiel, bells, maracas, vibraphone, teponaztli, and strings.\n\n\nThe cast also includes a mixed chorus, children, and dancers\n\nScene 1. At night in a forest where the Purépecha kings are buried, the warriors, led by the sorcerer Petámuti, are dancing around a bonfire. They have sworn revenge for the death of their king who was burnt at the stake by the Spanish conquistador, Nuño de Guzmán. Princess Coyuva, the king's daughter, arrives bearing his ashes. Her betrothed, Prince Ticátame, expresses his hatred for the Spanish and determination to avenge her father's death. Coyuva, who has become a Christian, tells him to forgive his enemies and to follow the teachings of 'Tata Vasco', Don Vasco de Quiroga, a priest and the Spanish judge (\"Oidor\") for the territory. When Ticátame is persuaded by Coyuva's words, Petámuti tries to kill him and in the ensuing struggle with the prince is killed. In a fury, Petámuti curses the young lovers.\n\nScene 2. In the sacristy of the Franciscan church in Tzintzuntzan, Indian children play while waiting for their lesson. A jovial friar arrives and after the lesson tells the children a story and asks them to sing like minstrels. When their song is finished, the children depart and Tata Vasco enters to receive a delegation from the Indians in Tzintzuntzan, led by Cuninjángari, the city's governor and a relative of the dead king. Don Vasco assures them of his desire to help them and urges them to give up nomadic life and polygamy and convert to Christianity. Ticátame and Coyuva then arrive for an audience and ask Vasco (who has been made Bishop of Michoacán) to marry them in a Christian ceremony.\nScene 3. At dawn in the courtyard of the Franciscan church, Indians can be heard singing as they work in the fields. They then come to the courtyard bringing gifts. Vasco and his entourage arrive for the wedding of Ticátame and Coyuva. Before entering the church, he speaks to the couple about the sacrament of marriage and they promise to be faithful to each other. The doors of the church swing open and a choir is heard singing. As the wedding party are about to enter the church, the sorcer Petámuti arrives, dagger in hand, to murder Ticátame and Coyuva. Petámuti accidentally falls on the church steps and is mortally wounded by his own weapon. Hearing his cries, Cuninjángari calls to Don Vasco to minister to the dying man. After Vasco speaks to him, Petámuti asks to be baptised before he dies. A group of Indians then carry off his body while songs of praise (\"ablados\") heard in the distance.\n\nScene 4. On a hill overlooking Lake Pátzcuaro, there is a fiesta to celebrate Ticátame and Coyuva's wedding. Don Vasco arrives and watches four dances performed by the Indians and listens to a song and toast to the couple in their native language. Before leaving, he addresses the Indians and invites them to come to Pátzcuaro where they can learn new trades to better their lives. Don Vasco departs and the scene closes with another dance in which all present take part.\n\nScene 5. In the audience room of the Bishop's palace in Pátzcuaro, Don Vasco is looking over plans for the new cathedral and seminary. A group of Indians arrive to present the first fruits of the industries he has taught them. A colourful parade ensues in which gourd cups, pottery, fishing nets, guitars, blouses and shawls are displayed to Don Vasco. Deeply touched, he tells the Indians that he will dedicate his life to their welfare and shows them an image of the Virgin of Good Health, who he says will protect them and their children.\n\n"}
{"id": "57203404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57203404", "title": "The Castle of Muskogee", "text": "The Castle of Muskogee\n\nThe Oklahoma Renaissance Festival is a multipurpose fairground in Oklahoma located in Muskogee, about 135 miles east of Oklahoma City and 55 miles southeast of Tulsa. The castle runs The Oklahoma Renaissance Festival from late April to Memorial City weekend over 6 weeks. It also hosts a Halloween Festival from late September to Halloween, Castle Christmas from Thanksgiving to New Year's Eve and Boares Head Feast in mid November. The place was build from a warehouse and the surrounding field.\n\nDuring the renaissance festival period, the site features 15 stages over 30 acres plus 40 acres of parking. It is set in 1569 during the reign of Elizabeth I. Its main feature is Castleton Village, a 13-acre area where the majority of merchants reside. The Halloween festival resides in Castleton Village and hosts 11 attractions. It also hosts the Castle Zombie Run held annually in September. The Boares Head Feast occurs in November and provides a four-course meal as well as entertainment. Castle Christmas takes place in the castle grounds and provides a light display with over 2,000 lights. The area also sells fireworks during the Fourth of July and New Year's Eve holiday seasons.\n\n"}
{"id": "53281559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53281559", "title": "The Right Honourable Gentleman", "text": "The Right Honourable Gentleman\n\nThe Right Honourable Gentleman is a 1962 play by Michael Dyne, first staged in 1964.\n\n\"The Right Honourable Gentleman\" is a dramatization of the rather complicated real-life Crawford Scandal of Victorian England. Sir Charles Dilke, an important Liberal member of Parliament, is seen as a possible successor to Gladstone as Prime Minister. The circumstances leading to his destruction, his private affairs as contrasted with those of the Empire, form the crux of the play.\n\nThe play introduce Dilke in his finest hour, an obvious choice for the new cabinet. But a certain Mr. Crawford sues his wife for divorce, naming Sir Charles as an involved party, based on his wife's confession that she had been having an affair with Sir Charles for some time. Mrs. Crawford provides dates and facts and is quite credible, while Sir Charles offers avowals of complete innocence, not just publicly but solemnly sworn to in private to his fiancee.\n\nAnd in fact Mrs. Crawford is lying, and instead is madly in love and carrying on with a certain Captain Foster, which may have been a reason for inventing her charges against the unfortunate Sir Charles. But Sir Charles \"had\" been conducting a long-term affair with Mrs. Crawford's mother, which, when it comes out, destroys his reputation and career.\n\n\"The Right Honourable Gentleman\", produced by Emile Littler, premiered in London's West End on May 28, 1964, and ran for three years. Players included Anthony Quayle, Corin Redgrave, Anna Massey, and Terence Bayler, and Glen Byam Shaw directed.\n\n\"The Right Honourable Gentleman\" opened on Broadway on October 19, 1965 at the Billy Rose Theatre. There were no out-of-town tryouts, instead 12 preview performances at the Billy Rose. Charles Gray played the title role, Sir Charles Dilke. Other players were Coral Brown, Sarah Badel as Mrs. Crawford, William Roerick as Joseph Chamberlain, and Marie Wallace. Frith Banbury directed.\n\nThe \"New York Journal-American\" described the production as \"a British import in their best tradition\", while the \"New York Herald Tribune\" said \"it is deft at keeping you riveted to its tricky game of truth or consequences\". The \"New York Morning Telegraph\" said \"now we have [a play] of meat and substance, of stature and importance\" and praised the \"superior cast\". Jack O'Brian wrote that \"\"The Right Honourable Gentleman\" is a fine, fine play... sheer entertainment in its shock-treatment of a theme written brilliantly, plotted beautifully, acted soundly, and produced properly\". Otis Guernsey Jr. wrote that it was \"a good job expertly done, but perhaps just a bit creaky in its theatrical joints as it played out its mannered exposé\".\n\n\"The Right Honourable Gentleman\" was only a modest hit on Broadway, and the 1966 New York City transit strike toward the end of its run harmed business. The play closed on January 29, 1966 after 118 performances. At the 20th Tony Awards in 1966, \"The Right Honourable Gentleman\" was nominated for best play and best costume design.\n\nRevivals have included a 1967 production at the Huntington Hartford Theatre (now the Ricardo Montalbán Theatre) in Los Angeles, and a production during the 1968–1969 season at the Citadel Theatre in Edmonton.\n"}
{"id": "716048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=716048", "title": "Thorotrast", "text": "Thorotrast\n\nThorotrast is a suspension containing particles of the radioactive compound thorium dioxide, ThO, that was used as a radiocontrast agent in medical radiography in the 1930s and 1940s. Use in some countries, such as the U.S., continued into the 1950s.\n\nThorium compounds produce excellent images because of thorium's high opacity to X-rays (it has a high cross section for absorption). However, thorium is retained in the body, and it is radioactive, emitting harmful alpha radiation as it decays. Because the suspension offered high image quality and had virtually no immediate side-effects compared to the alternatives available at the time, Thorotrast became widely used after its introduction in 1931. António Egas Moniz contributed to its development. About 2 to 10 million patients worldwide have been treated with Thorotrast. However, today it has shown an increase risk in certain cancers such as cholangiocarcinomas and angiosarcomas of the liver.\n\nEven at the time of introduction, there was concern about the safety of Thorotrast. Following injection, the drug is distributed to the liver, spleen, lymph nodes, and bone, where it is absorbed. After this initial absorption, redistribution takes place at a very slow pace. Specifically, the biological half-life is estimated to be 22 years. This means that the organs of patients who have been given Thorotrast will be exposed to internal alpha radiation for the rest of their lives. The significance of this long-term exposure was not fully understood at the time of Thorotrast's introduction in 1931.\n\nDue to the release of alpha particles, Thorotrast was found to be extremely carcinogenic. There is a high over-incidence of various cancers in patients who have been treated with Thorotrast. The cancers occur some years (usually 20-30) after injection of Thorotrast. The risk of developing liver cancer (or bile duct cancer) in former Thorotrast patients has been measured to be well above 100 times the risk of the rest of the population. The risk of leukemia appears to be 20 times higher in Thorotrast patients. Thorotrast exposure has also been associated with the development of angiosarcoma. German patients exposed to Thorotrast had their median life-expectancy shortened by 14 years in comparison to a similar non-exposed control group.\n\nThorium is no longer used in X-ray contrast agents. Today, iodinated hydrophilic (water-soluble) molecules are universally used as injected contrast agents in X-ray procedures.\n\nThe Danish director Nils Malmros's movie, \"Facing the Truth\" (original Danish title \"At Kende Sandheden\") from 2002, portrays the dilemma that faced Malmros's father, Richard Malmros, when treating his patients in the 1940s. Richard Malmros was deeply concerned about the persistence of Thorotrast in the body but was forced to use Thorotrast, because the only available alternative (per-abrodil) had serious immediate side-effects, suffered from image quality problems and was difficult to obtain during the Second World War. The use of Thorotrast in Denmark ended in 1947 when safer alternatives became available.\n\nThorotrast has also been used in research to stain neural tissue samples for examination by historadiography.\n"}
{"id": "1371397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1371397", "title": "Turbot War", "text": "Turbot War\n\nThe Turbot War (known in Spain as Guerra del Fletán) was an international fishing dispute between Canada (supported by the United Kingdom and Ireland) and Spain (supported by the European Union and Iceland) in which Canada stopped a Spanish fishing trawler from Galicia in international waters and arrested its crew. Canada claimed that European Union factory ships were illegally overfishing Greenland halibut, also known as Greenland turbot, on the Grand Banks, just outside Canada's declared exclusive economic zone (EEZ).\n\nTerritorial seas have changed over time, having begun with a \"cannon shot\" territorial sea, followed by the long-standing extension to a standard. The economic control of the waters surrounding nations to a exclusive economic zones (EEZ) were agreed at the conference on the Third United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea in 1982, and became recognised internationally on November 14, 1994. As a self-governing colony and dominion, Newfoundland's foreign policy, just as Canada's, was established by the British government until the Statute of Westminster 1931. However, in 1934, Newfoundland's government voted to be put under the administration of a commission appointed by London; this situation remained until 1949 when the dominion entered Canadian Confederation.\n\nFollowing Confederation, Canada recognized many of the foreign policy agreements Newfoundland had entered under this commission. During the 1950s to the 1970s, the domestic and foreign fishing fleets became increasingly industrialized, with massive factory freezer trawlers fishing out of Newfoundland ports – foreign fleets were based in Newfoundland and could fish 12 nautical miles offshore, while domestic fleets could fish in both the territorial sea and the offshore.\n\nBy the 1970s the overfishing by industrial vessels in the waters of the other provinces of eastern Canada was evident, although each subsequent federal government continued to ignore this problem, and even contributed to it by using the issuance of fishing licenses for more inshore and offshore domestic vessels. Between 1973 and 1982 the United Nations and its member states negotiated the Third Convention of the Law of the Sea – one component of which was the concept of nations being allowed to declare an EEZ. Although not adopted into international law until 1982, the possibility of declaring an EEZ became a \"de facto\" reality in 1977 with the conclusion of those sections of the Third Conference negotiations relating to maritime boundary and economic control.\n\nMany nations worldwide declared 200-nautical-mile EEZs, including Canada and the United States. The EEZ boundaries became a foreign policy issue where overlapping claims existed, as was the case between Canada and the United States in the Gulf of Maine, Dixon Entrance, Strait of Juan de Fuca and Beaufort Sea, as well as between Canada and France in the case of St. Pierre and Miquelon.\n\nBut on the whole, for fishermen in eastern Canada, it meant they could fish unhindered out to the limit without fear of competing with the foreign fleets. During the late 1970s and early 1980s, Canada's domestic offshore fleet grew as fishermen and fish processing companies rushed to take advantage. It was also during this time when it was noticed that the foreign fleets now pushed out to 200 nautical miles offshore and excluded from the rich Canadian waters, were increasing their harvest on the small areas of the Grand Banks that were outside the area of the EEZ.\n\nBy the late 1980s the smaller catches of Northern cod were being reported throughout the Atlantic coast of Canada as the federal government and citizens of coastal regions in the area began to face the reality that the domestic and foreign overfishing had taken its toll. In the end stocks of cod in and around Canada's EEZ were severely depleted. Reluctant to act at a time of declining political popularity, the federal government was finally forced to take drastic action in 1992 when a total moratorium was declared indefinitely for the Northern Cod.\n\nThe immediate impact was felt most in Newfoundland, followed by the Atlantic coast of Nova Scotia. The nascent Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organization, organized after the 1977 EEZ declarations to coordinate conservation efforts in Canada, the United States, and member nations in Europe (both western and eastern bloc countries), also declared a ban, however it was implemented too late to be effective – cod which 5–10 years before was being caught in record numbers, had vanished almost overnight to the point where it was considered for endangered species protection.\n\nThe economic impact in coastal Newfoundland was unprecedented. To lessen the impact that its policies of permitting overfishing had exacted upon rural Newfoundlanders, the federal government swiftly created a relief program called \"The Atlantic Groundfish Strategy\" (TAGS) to provide short- to medium-term financial support, and employment retraining for the longer term.\n\nDespite TAGS, Newfoundland and coastal Nova Scotia were bleeding severely as communities began to experience an out-migration on a scale not seen in Canada since the prairie dust bowls of the 1930s. The anger at federal political figures was palpable and with the wholesale rejection of short-term Prime Minister Kim Campbell, incoming prime minister Jean Chrétien's Liberals were going to face the ongoing wrath of voters whose entire livelihoods had been decimated as a result of decades of federal neglect and mismanagement, and whose communities, property values, net worth, and way of life were declining rapidly.\nIn the years since the cod moratorium, federal fisheries policy makers and scientists had scrambled to attempt to find a replacement species that could at least reinject economic stimulus into the affected regions. The ground fishery, while a fraction of what it had been during the cod years, did have some bright spots – one of which was the Greenland halibut commonly known in Canada as turbot. The turbot had decreased in demand due to a common dislike for the taste in the European Union.\n\nCanada was not alone in recognizing the growing value of the turbot, and foreign fishing fleets operating off the 200-nautical-mile EEZ were beginning to pursue the species in increasing numbers. By 1994, Canada and NAFO had tracked about 50 violations of boats crossing the 200-nautical-mile EEZ limit to fish illegally within Canadian waters, as well as recording use of illegal gear and overfishing outside Canadian waters.\n\nThe new federal Minister of Fisheries and Oceans, Brian Tobin, directed the Department of Fisheries and Oceans (DFO), along with the Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade (DFAIT) to begin a very aggressive dialogue with the European Union over the presence of its fishing fleet and its practices, particularly the use of illegal trawl nets just outside the Canadian EEZ while fishing for turbot. Tobin's critics in Canada noted that he was likely using his department as a political prop to shore up support during a time of increased social unrest in the region, yet in the winter of 1995, Tobin directed DFO to establish a legal argument which could be made for the seizure of a foreign vessel in international waters using the premise of conservation.\n\nMinister Tobin and the federal cabinet then told the DFO to demonstrate Canadian resolve on the issue by \"making an example\" of a European Union fishing vessel. On 9 March 1995, an offshore patrol aircraft detected the Spanish stern trawler \"Estai\" in international waters outside Canada's 200-nautical-mile EEZ. Armed DFO fisheries patrol vessels, Cape Roger, Leonard J. Cowley and Canadian Coast Guard Ship Sir Wilfred Grenfell, intercepted and pursued \"Estai\", which cut its weighted trawl net and fled after an initial boarding attempt, resulting in a several hours' chase which ended after the Canadian Fisheries Patrol vessel \"Cape Roger\" fired a .50 calibre (12.7 mm) machine gun across the bow of \"Estai\". The Canadian Coast Guard ship used high-pressure fire-fighting water cannon to deter other Spanish fishing vessels from disrupting the operation. Finally, armed DFO Fishery Officers and Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) officers boarded \"Estai\" in international waters on the Grand Banks.\n\n\"Estai\" was escorted to St. John's, arriving with great fanfare across the province and region — and the country. Canada's federal court processed the case and the charges against the crew while Spain and the European Union protested vehemently, threatening boycotts against Canada and wishing to have the case heard at the International Court of Justice.\n\nTobin and his department ignored the controversy and instead had the oversized trawl net which \"Estai\" had cut free salvaged. The DFO contracted a Fishery Products International ground fish trawler to drag for \"Estai\"s trawl. On the first attempt it retrieved the \"Estai\"s net which had been cut. It was found that \"Estai\" was using a liner with a mesh size smaller than permitted by the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organisation (NAFO). The net was shipped to New York City where Tobin called an international press conference on board a rented barge in the East River outside the United Nations headquarters. There, the net from \"Estai\" was displayed, hanging from an enormous crane, and Tobin used the occasion to shame the Spanish and EU governments, pointing out the small size of the holes in the net which are illegal in Canada. Spain never denied that the net was from \"Estai\" but continued to protest Canada's use of \"extra-territorial force\". The Spanish government asked the International Court of Justice in The Hague, Netherlands, for leave to hear a case claiming that Canada had no right to detain \"Estai\". However, the court later refused the case. Later, Canada released the crew of \"Estai\". On the same day that Tobin was in New York, the United Kingdom blocked an EU proposal to impose sanctions on Canada.\n\nTobin claimed that Canada would not enter negotiations as long as illegal fishing continued, and demanded the withdrawal of all fishing vessels in the area as a precondition. On March 15, the owners of \"Estai\" posted $500,000 bond for the vessel, and it was returned to Spain. Subsequently, the rest of the fishing fleet also left the area, and preliminary talks were scheduled for the upcoming G7 conference. These talks failed, as the Spanish refused to change their position, and Spanish fishing vessels subsequently returned to Grand Banks. Spain also implemented a visa mandate for all Canadians visiting, or planning to visit Spain. This resulted in several Canadians being deported from Spain who had been legally in Spain up until the moment the visa mandate was adopted. The visa mandate was later overturned by the EU in 1996. The Spanish Navy deployed the \"Atalaya\" to protect its country's fishing vessels. The Spanish Navy also prepared a surface task group with frigates and tankers, but Spain eventually decided against sending it. Negotiations ceased on March 25, and the following day, Canadian ships cut the nets of the Spanish trawler \"Pescamero Uno\". The Spanish Navy responded by deploying a second patrol boat. Canadian warships and patrol planes in the vicinity were authorized by Canadian Prime Minister Jean Chrétien to fire on Spanish vessels that exposed their guns. Direct negotiations between the EU and Canada eventually restarted, and a deal was reached on April 5. Spain, however, rejected it, demanding better terms. After Canada threatened to forcibly remove Spanish fishing vessels, the EU pressured Spain into finally reaching a settlement on April 15. Canada reimbursed the $500,000 that had been paid for \"Estai\"s release, repealed the CFPR provision that allowed the arrest of Spanish vessels, and a reduction of Canada's own Turbot allocation. A new international regime to observe EU and Canadian fishing vessels was also created.\n\nThe dispute raised Brian Tobin's political profile, helping to preserve his political career in Newfoundland at a time when federal politicians were being increasingly vilified. It also led to his decision in 1996 to pursue to the leadership of the Liberal Party of Newfoundland following the resignation of premier Clyde Wells, as well as a widely discussed future possibility for leadership of the Liberal Party of Canada.\n\nAlthough Spain was getting political support from the EU (including naval support from Germany among others), the United Kingdom and Ireland supported Canada. The then prime-minister John Major risked his status within the EU community by actively speaking out against Spain. Because of this, some British fishing boats took to flying Canadian flags to show their support. This brought the conflict to European waters when a Cornish fishing boat, \"Newlyn\", then flying the Canadian flag, was arrested by a French ship that believed it to be Canadian. This dragged Britain from its position of passive backing into full support of the Canadians. Overnight, Canadian flags began to fly from all manner of British and Irish vessels.\n\nThe rest of the EU rallied behind France and Spain, but hesitated to make any mobilizations against the British, Irish, or Canadians.\n\nUpon hearing the news of the conflict, Iceland spoke up and took the side of the EU against Britain in light of their similar clash with the British, known as the Cod Wars. As with the EU, no military mobilization took place. Iceland tried to put political pressure on the United Kingdom and Ireland. The British and the Irish pointedly ignored these actions and continued their unquestioned support of Brian Tobin and the Canadians.\n\nIn the end \"Newlyn\" was returned to the British without further incident.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35483266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35483266", "title": "Turkmen incursions into Georgia", "text": "Turkmen incursions into Georgia\n\nAfter the devastating invasions by Timur and subsequent enfeeblement of the Kingdom of Georgia, it soon faced a new threat. Timur's death in 1405 marked the beginning of the end of his Empire, unified only by fear and blood of the subjected peoples. Turkomans, particularly the Kara Koyunlu clan, were among the first to rebel against Shah Rukh who ruled most of the Persia and Mawerannahr. Qara Yusuf, ruler of the Kara Koyunlu, defeated Shah Rukh, captured Baghdad, and repulsed Timurids from western Persia. After they established themselves as the new leading power in the middle east. They took advantage of the temporary weakness of Georgians and launched attacks against them, apparently in which, George VII of Georgia was killed. Constantine I of Georgia, fearing further encroachment, allied himself with the Shirvanshah Ibrahim I to counter Turkoman advance and engaged them in the Battle of Chalagan, in which he was defeated and taken captive. In captivity Constantine behaved very proudly, which infuriated Qara Yusuf to such an extent, that he ordered his, his half-brother David's and 300 Georgian nobles' execution.\n\nAlexander I of Georgia who sought to strengthen and restore his declining Kingdom, faced constant invasions by the tribal Turkomans. They sacked Akhaltsikhe, city of the vital regional importance in 1416, in response of suggested oppression of Muslims. Alexander re-conquered Lorri from the Turkomans in 1431, which was of great importance in securing of the Georgian borders. Around 1434/5, Alexander encouraged the Armenian prince Beshken II Orbelian to attack the Kara Koyunlu clansmen in Siunia and, for his victory, granted him Lorri under terms of vassalage. In 1440, Alexander refused to pay tribute to Jahan Shah of the Kara Koyunlu. In March, Jahan Shah surged into Georgia with 20,000 troops, destroyed the city of Samshvilde and sacked the capital city Tbilisi. He massacred thousands of Christians, put heavy indemnity on Georgia, and returned to Tabriz. He also mounted a second military expedition against Georgia in 1444. His forces met those of Alexander’s successor, King Vakhtang IV at Akhaltsikhe, but the fighting was inconclusive and Jahan Shah returned to Tabriz once more.\n\nAs a result of foreign and internal struggles unified Kingdom of Georgia stopped to exist after 1466 and was subdivided into several political units. Kara Koyunlu tribal confederation was destroyed by Aq Qoyunlu, their kin tribesmen who formed another confederation, which was similar in many ways to its predecessor. Aq Qoyunlu Turkomans naturally took advantage of the Georgian fragmentation. Georgia was at least twice attacked by Uzun Hasan, the prince of the Aq Qoyunlu in 1466, 1472 and possibly 1476-7. Bagrat VI of Georgia, temporary ruler of most of Georgia at the time, had to make peace with the invaders, abandoning Tbilisi to the enemy. It was only after Uzun Hasan’s death (1478) when the Georgians were able to recover their capital. In the winter of 1488, the Ak Koyunlu Turkomans led by Halil Bey attacked Georgia’s capital Tbilisi, and took the city after a long-lasted siege in February 1489. Alexander II of Imereti, another pretender to the throne, took advantage of the Aq Qoyunlu Turkoman invasion of Kartli, and seized control of Imereti. Occupation of the capital did not last long and Constantine II of Georgia was able to repel them, but it was still costly to Georgians. Ismail I, founder of the Safavid dynasty, formed an alliance with the Georgians in 1502 and decisively defeated Aq Qoyunlu in the same year, destroying their state and marking the end of their invasions.\n"}
{"id": "51887637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51887637", "title": "UK Independence Party leadership election, November 2016", "text": "UK Independence Party leadership election, November 2016\n\nThe November 2016 UK Independence Party leadership election took place following the announcement on 4 October 2016 by Diane James, the leader-elect of the UK Independence Party, that she would not accept the leadership of the party, despite winning the leadership election 18 days earlier. Nigel Farage, whom James was to succeed after the previous leadership election following his resignation, was selected the next day to serve as interim leader.\n\nOn 28 November 2016, former deputy leader Paul Nuttall was announced as the new leader of the UK Independence Party with 63% of the vote.\n\nThe party was seen as having two major factions. On one side were those who backed Nigel Farage; in the previous leadership contest these had favoured Steven Woolfe, and then, when he was not nominated, Diane James. On the other were those who wanted a more collegiate party, including figures like Suzanne Evans, the party's only MP Douglas Carswell and its former director of communications Patrick O'Flynn; this group had supported Lisa Duffy in the previous election.\n\nWoolfe was seen by many as the favourite in the election. He admitted he had considered defecting to the Conservative Party following the previous leadership election; an argument concerning this with his MEP colleagues at a meeting in the European Parliament resulted in an altercation with Mike Hookem, after which Woolfe collapsed and had to be hospitalised. He claimed Hookem had punched him, an accusation denied by Hookem. A few days later, on 17 October 2016, Woolfe withdrew his candidacy and quit UKIP, describing the party as ungovernable without Farage as leader.\n\nThe party's National Executive Committee was expected to meet on 10 October 2016 to set a date and rules for the leadership election, but later rescheduled the meeting to 17 October. While party chairman Paul Oakden initially mooted that the election could be delayed until 2017, the NEC opened nominations on 17 October, to close at midday on 31 October. Hustings were expected in early November, and ballots were to be sent out on 11 November. The result was to be announced on 28 November.\n\nOn 7 October, Woolfe and Raheem Kassam announced their intent to run for the leadership. Woolfe was seen as favourite to succeed Diane James, following his failure to submit his nomination in time for the previous leadership election. Woolfe's campaign message was that UKIP had to \"stand up for the ignored working class and secure a radically different political landscape in Britain\". On 6 October, Woolfe had been hospitalised following an altercation with fellow MEP Mike Hookem at the European Parliament. On 17 October, Woolfe withdrew from the contest and left UKIP, claiming the party was in a \"death spiral\". Party chairman Paul Oakden stated this was \"regrettable\", and former party leader Nigel Farage said it was \"unfortunate\".\n\nKassam, who given Woolfe's withdrawal was expected to be the first ethnic minority candidate for the UKIP leadership, stated that he was the person to end \"corruption\" at the top of the party and heal the party divides. He sought to address cultural and social divisions across the country by eliminating Islamism in schools, prisons, and neighbourhoods. He was criticised by \"The Huffington Post\" for his past comments on social media; for example, when he told people with whom he had disagreed on Twitter to \"fuck off\". Moreover, the language used to describe the transgender community caused disputes both internally and externally. He openly referred to himself as \"Islamophobe of the Year\" in 2014, and advertised 'Brits for Trump' shirts that he said he had made in response to requests. Promoting himself as a \"straight-talking\" candidate, some of his tweets and social presence had been strongly condemned, including a derogatory comment following Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon's miscarriage in 2014. Rival candidate Suzanne Evans criticised him as \"far right\", whilst Nigel Farage responded, calling her \"poisonous\". As the self-described \"Farage-ist\" candidate, his ideas on the party's future included introducing the position of party CEO so the party can be \"run like an organisation\". Kassam's key message had been to prevent UKIP moving to the \"squishy centre ground\".\n\nOn 12 October, the leader of UKIP in the London Assembly, Peter Whittle, announced his candidacy, promising, if elected, to ensure Brexit is delivered. He further pledged that if UKIP under his leadership were to form a government, a priority would be ensuring national pride across the UK. Whittle proposed schools fly the Union Jack, a statement that angered some groups.\n\nJohn Rees-Evans, a former British Army soldier, declared his candidacy on 17 October. He pledged to ensure that the UK left the EU, and said the government ought to be reduced in size and function. He stated his belief that the current \"political class\" in Westminster was detached from citizens, and pledged to make politics more transparent and open if elected UKIP leader. Rees-Evans caused controversy in 2014 when he claimed that a \"gay donkey tried to rape my horse\". He later clarified his comments as \"playful banter with a mischievous activist\" and apologised.\n\nA few days later, on 18 October, fellow AM David Kurten announced his intention to stand. His policies include protecting the green belt, banning Sharia law, scrapping HS2, Crossrail 2 and a third runway at Heathrow, introducing proportional representation for general elections in the UK, and making the House of Lords a fully elected, smaller second chamber.\n\nTwo significant UKIP politicians, Paul Nuttall (former deputy leader) and Suzanne Evans (former deputy chair of UKIP and director of policy for the party, before being expelled following the 2015 general election) entered the contest on 23 October. Nuttall described himself as the \"unity candidate\" for the party, able to \"bring the factions together.\" Nuttall's message was that UKIP could become the patriotic face of the working class, something shared by Kassam and Whittle. He said that UKIP could fill the \"political gap vacated by what’s left of the Labour party\" under Jeremy Corbyn, who had \"abandon[ed] his principles\" over the EU, and promised to hold the government accountable over immigration. His key campaign message was to unify the party and to make the party the true \"voice of the common man and woman\".\n\nEvans’ message was party \"detoxification\". She is a member of the party faction that favours more centrist conservative views; her priorities for leadership included ensuring that the 1972 European Communities Act is repealed by the UK government, ensuring that UKIP led the electoral reform process, and bolstering the current Conservative government's stance on law and order. Evans caused some disruption with her pledge to end the \"Trump-styled rhetoric\" in the party. This was seen by some, including former party leader Nigel Farage, as an indirect swipe at Raheem Kassam's campaign (whose logo was ‘Make UKIP Great Again’ similar to the ‘Make America Great Again’ of Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign). Evans has previously stated that she wished to see the UK's defence budget increased, foreign aid budget and energy bills reduced and corporate tax avoiders held accountable for their actions.\n\nEvans appeared on ITV's \"The Agenda\" on 26 October, where she was criticised by fellow panellist Jeremy Paxman over whether she had \"compassion\" regarding child refugees in Calais. She replied \"of course I have compassion, but this system is being abused here, it's quite obvious\" in reference to some refugees, who have claimed to be children but who are believed by some to be grown adults.\n\nTwo candidates formally withdrew from the contest: Andrew Beadle on 13 October and Bill Etheridge (who had come third in the previous leadership election) on 26 October. Both argued that Paul Nuttall would be the most suitable candidate for leader, able to unify the party and help it move onto more “fertile ground.” On 30 October, David Kurten withdrew from the race; praising his fellow candidates, he stated that he would be \"happy to work with any of the remaining candidates... on ensuring Brexit is delivered.\"\n\nA 25 October survey of 91 UKIP councillors for \"The Times\" found 42% supported Nuttall and 22% Evans. Others receiving support were Raheem Kassam (9%), Douglas Carswell and Lisa Duffy (5% each), Patrick O'Flynn (4%), Bill Etheridge (2%) and Peter Whittle (1%). 8% said none of the above.\n\nKassam withdrew from the contest, endorsing Peter Whittle, on 31 October.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMEPs\n\nOther people\n\n\n\n\nSome of the polls below include people who will not be candidates. Polls show both free choices among all candidates and constrained choices among particular pairs of candidates.\n\nPaul Nuttall was elected Leader with 62.6% of the vote.\n\n32,757 ballot papers were issued and 15,370 members voted in the contest, a turnout of 47%. This was a drop in turnout from the September leadership election, which saw 17,842 members cast a ballot, a turnout of approximately 54%.\n\n"}
{"id": "6207196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6207196", "title": "Vancouver International Burlesque Festival", "text": "Vancouver International Burlesque Festival\n\nThe Vancouver International Burlesque Festival is an annual four-day festival that takes place every spring in Vancouver, BC. The festival features burlesque performers, comedians and musicians. The 2017 festival showcases will be held at the Vancouver Playhouse (theatre venue) on March 31 & April 1, with Tit Talks at The Post at 750 on March 30, and The Diamonds in the Buff Industry awards on March 29. The 2018 festival dates will be April 4 - 7.\n\nThe first festival took place in February 2006 and was founded by two local troupes; The Screaming Chicken Theatrical Society and Sweet Soul Burlesque. Performances were held at the Red Room, the Chinese Cultural Center and the Burr Theatre. Festival production was returned to the community, leading to the founding of the Vancouver International Burlesque Festival Association (VIBFA).\n\nSuccess of the first festival led to an expanded second year featuring two stages and workshops. The new event platform included cross-collaboration opportunities and workshops, and produced events such as movie nights, discussion panels and fashion shows focusing on the art of neo-burlesque. The 2008 Festival ran for ten days, and attracted over 100 singers, dancers, comedians, musicians, filmmakers, and costume designers from around the world.\n\nThe VIBFA is a not-for-profit elected board whose primary goal is to produce a festival that focuses on the Vancouver burlesque scene and the world of burlesque on an international level.\n\n\nPast venues include the Rio Theatre and the Vogue Theatre. The 2016 festival will take place at the Vancouver Playhouse.\n\nPast notable performers include Jo Boobs (New York City, New York) and Burlesque Hall of Fame inductee Judith Stein.\n\n"}
{"id": "24504865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24504865", "title": "Walk the Line Festival", "text": "Walk the Line Festival\n\nThe Walk the Line Festival was a music and poetry festival which took place at various venues in Cheltenham, southern England.\n\nThe first Walk the Line festival took place on Friday 30 and Saturday 31 October 2009.\n\n\n\n\n"}
