{"id": "40354704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40354704", "title": "Adriano B. Lucatelli", "text": "Adriano B. Lucatelli\n\nAdriano B. Lucatelli (born 23 February 1966) is a Swiss entrepreneur in the financial services industry.\n\nAdriano Lucatelli was born on 23 February 1966 in Uster near Zurich, Switzerland. His father’s family originated from Apulia in Southern Italy, and worked primarily in agriculture and the textile industry. His mother’s family comes from Central Switzerland. His great-grandfather was the entrepreneur and pioneer in electricity Zeno Durrer, and his great uncle was Ludwig von Moos, a member of the Swiss federal government (the Swiss Federal Council).\n\nLucatelli studied international affairs and economics at the University of Nevada, Reno (BA) and at the London School of Economics (MSc). In 1995 he obtained a PhD from the University of Zurich with a dissertation on global financial market regulation. Parallel to his career he has also completed an MBA program at the University of Rochester (N.Y.), and an advanced management program at the Wharton School.\n\nHe is a co-founder and CEO of Descartes Finance AG, a Swiss robo-advisor, and Chairman of Additiv AG, a Swiss banking and insurance software provider. In 2017, the Swiss business magazine “Bilanz” chose him among the top 100 Swiss bankers.\n\nFrom 2012 to 2018, he lectured at the University of Zurich on the political economy of international finance.\n\nHe started his career in 1994 at Credit Suisse, where he held various managerial positions in Zurich and London. From 2002 to 2009 Lucatelli was managing director and member of the management committee at UBS Switzerland in Lugano and Zurich. He then co-founded Swiss financial services group Reuss Private Group, and between 2009 and 2013 headed securities dealer and investment firm Reuss Private AG as its CEO.\n\nIn the course of his career Lucatelli has published various articles in newspapers and journals, and has authored the books Finance and World Order (1997), Off-Target Corporate Governance (2013), and The Fine Art of Efficient Investing (2015). In 2018, he co-authored with Lucienne C. Vaudan “Eine kurze Reise durch die Finanzmärkte.”\n\nHe also writes guest commentaries for publication in the German online magazine stern.de, the Swiss finance portal finews.ch, the Swiss business portal moneycab.com and the ETF-platform 10x10.ch. In terms of Klout score, Lucatelli has been one of the five most influential Swiss economists on social media from 2015 to 2018.\n\nLucatelli is a well-known financial expert. Before the dotcom crash in July 2000 he warned that the majority of the new internet firms would disappear, and in August 2011, at the peak of the euro crisis, he recommended that investors progressively get back into equities and steer clear of overpriced gold. He repeated his buy recommendation in March 2014, setting a target of 3,000 index points for the S&P 500 Index by mid-2019.\n\nAdded to this Lucatelli, in collaboration with Ernst Fehr, was the first to calculate the Market-Adjusted Performance Indicator (MAPI) for listed Swiss companies. The indicator shows that good management systematically creates value for shareholders, reflected in the fact that shares of these companies outperform the broad Swiss Performance Index (SPI), in some cases by a considerable margin. \n\nLucatelli is also one of the first critics of Bitcoin. He warned early about the uncontrolled speculation with the cryptocurrency.\n\nIn 2011 he earned the Distinguished Alumni Award from the College of Liberal Arts at the University of Nevada. The same year he was nominated by Ernst & Young Switzerland for the Entrepreneur of the Year award.\n\nOutside work, since 2009 Lucatelli has served as chairman of the readers’ commission of the Neue Zürcher Zeitung newspaper, and he funds two scholarships giving financial support to students at the University of Nevada.\n\nLucatelli is a life member of the Cantonal Art Museum in Lugano, an honorary member of Pi Sigma Alpha (the National Political Science Honor Society), and a member of the Athenaeum Club in London.\n\n\"If finance can't improve the lives of people, we have no use for it.\"\n\n\"Visions also have to be solidly financed.\"\n\n\"What is wrong economically can't be right politically.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=852", "title": "Alexander Graham Bell", "text": "Alexander Graham Bell\n\nAlexander Graham Bell (March 3, 1847 – August 2, 1922) was a Scottish-born scientist, inventor, engineer, and innovator who is credited with inventing and patenting the first practical telephone. He also founded the American Telephone and Telegraph Company (AT&T) in 1885.\n\nBell's father, grandfather, and brother had all been associated with work on elocution and speech and both his mother and wife were deaf, profoundly influencing Bell's life's work. His research on hearing and speech further led him to experiment with hearing devices which eventually culminated in Bell being awarded the first U.S. patent for the telephone in 1876. Bell considered his invention an intrusion on his real work as a scientist and refused to have a telephone in his study.\n\nMany other inventions marked Bell's later life, including groundbreaking work in optical telecommunications, hydrofoils, and aeronautics. Although Bell was not one of the 33 founders of the National Geographic Society, he had a strong influence on the magazine while serving as the second president from January 7, 1898, until 1903.\n\nAlexander Bell was born in Edinburgh, Scotland, on March 3, 1847. The family home was at 16 South Charlotte Street, and has a stone inscription marking it as Alexander Graham Bell's birthplace. He had two brothers: Melville James Bell (1845–70) and Edward Charles Bell (1848–67), both of whom would die of tuberculosis. His father was Professor Alexander Melville Bell, a phonetician, and his mother was Eliza Grace (née Symonds). Born as just \"Alexander Bell\", at age 10, he made a plea to his father to have a middle name like his two brothers. For his 11th birthday, his father acquiesced and allowed him to adopt the name \"Graham\", chosen out of respect for Alexander Graham, a Canadian being treated by his father who had become a family friend. To close relatives and friends he remained \"Aleck\".\n\nAs a child, young Bell displayed a natural curiosity about his world, resulting in gathering botanical specimens as well as experimenting even at an early age. His best friend was Ben Herdman, a neighbour whose family operated a flour mill, the scene of many forays. Young Bell asked what needed to be done at the mill. He was told wheat had to be dehusked through a laborious process and at the age of 12, Bell built a homemade device that combined rotating paddles with sets of nail brushes, creating a simple dehusking machine that was put into operation and used steadily for a number of years. In return, Ben's father John Herdman gave both boys the run of a small workshop in which to \"invent\".\n\nFrom his early years, Bell showed a sensitive nature and a talent for art, poetry, and music that was encouraged by his mother. With no formal training, he mastered the piano and became the family's pianist. Despite being normally quiet and introspective, he revelled in mimicry and \"voice tricks\" akin to ventriloquism that continually entertained family guests during their occasional visits. Bell was also deeply affected by his mother's gradual deafness (she began to lose her hearing when he was 12), and learned a manual finger language so he could sit at her side and tap out silently the conversations swirling around the family parlour. He also developed a technique of speaking in clear, modulated tones directly into his mother's forehead wherein she would hear him with reasonable clarity. Bell's preoccupation with his mother's deafness led him to study acoustics.\n\nHis family was long associated with the teaching of elocution: his grandfather, Alexander Bell, in London, his uncle in Dublin, and his father, in Edinburgh, were all elocutionists. His father published a variety of works on the subject, several of which are still well known, especially his \"The Standard Elocutionist\" (1860), which appeared in Edinburgh in 1868. \"The Standard Elocutionist\" appeared in 168 British editions and sold over a quarter of a million copies in the United States alone. In this treatise, his father explains his methods of how to instruct deaf-mutes (as they were then known) to articulate words and read other people's lip movements to decipher meaning. Bell's father taught him and his brothers not only to write Visible Speech but to identify any symbol and its accompanying sound. Bell became so proficient that he became a part of his father's public demonstrations and astounded audiences with his abilities. He could decipher Visible Speech representing virtually every language, including Latin, Scottish Gaelic, and even Sanskrit, accurately reciting written tracts without any prior knowledge of their pronunciation.\n\nAs a young child, Bell, like his brothers, received his early schooling at home from his father. At an early age, he was enrolled at the Royal High School, Edinburgh, Scotland, which he left at the age of 15, having completed only the first four forms. His school record was undistinguished, marked by absenteeism and lacklustre grades. His main interest remained in the sciences, especially biology while he treated other school subjects with indifference, to the dismay of his demanding father. Upon leaving school, Bell travelled to London to live with his grandfather, Alexander Bell. During the year he spent with his grandfather, a love of learning was born, with long hours spent in serious discussion and study. The elder Bell took great efforts to have his young pupil learn to speak clearly and with conviction, the attributes that his pupil would need to become a teacher himself. At the age of 16, Bell secured a position as a \"pupil-teacher\" of elocution and music, in Weston House Academy at Elgin, Moray, Scotland. Although he was enrolled as a student in Latin and Greek, he instructed classes himself in return for board and £10 per session. The following year, he attended the University of Edinburgh; joining his older brother Melville who had enrolled there the previous year. In 1868, not long before he departed for Canada with his family, Bell completed his matriculation exams and was accepted for admission to University College London.\n\nHis father encouraged Bell's interest in speech and, in 1863, took his sons to see a unique automaton developed by Sir Charles Wheatstone based on the earlier work of Baron Wolfgang von Kempelen. The rudimentary \"mechanical man\" simulated a human voice. Bell was fascinated by the machine and after he obtained a copy of von Kempelen's book, published in German, and had laboriously translated it, he and his older brother Melville built their own automaton head. Their father, highly interested in their project, offered to pay for any supplies and spurred the boys on with the enticement of a \"big prize\" if they were successful. While his brother constructed the throat and larynx, Bell tackled the more difficult task of recreating a realistic skull. His efforts resulted in a remarkably lifelike head that could \"speak\", albeit only a few words. The boys would carefully adjust the \"lips\" and when a bellows forced air through the windpipe, a very recognizable \"Mama\" ensued, to the delight of neighbours who came to see the Bell invention.\n\nIntrigued by the results of the automaton, Bell continued to experiment with a live subject, the family's Skye Terrier, \"Trouve\". After he taught it to growl continuously, Bell would reach into its mouth and manipulate the dog's lips and vocal cords to produce a crude-sounding \"Ow ah oo ga ma ma\". With little convincing, visitors believed his dog could articulate \"How are you, grandma?\" Indicative of his playful nature, his experiments convinced onlookers that they saw a \"talking dog\". These initial forays into experimentation with sound led Bell to undertake his first serious work on the transmission of sound, using tuning forks to explore resonance.\n\nAt age 19, Bell wrote a report on his work and sent it to philologist Alexander Ellis, a colleague of his father (who would later be portrayed as Professor Henry Higgins in \"Pygmalion\"). Ellis immediately wrote back indicating that the experiments were similar to existing work in Germany, and also lent Bell a copy of Hermann von Helmholtz's work, \"The Sensations of Tone as a Physiological Basis for the Theory of Music\".\n\nDismayed to find that groundbreaking work had already been undertaken by Helmholtz who had conveyed vowel sounds by means of a similar tuning fork \"contraption\", Bell pored over the German scientist's book. Working from his own erroneous mistranslation of a French edition, Bell fortuitously then made a deduction that would be the underpinning of all his future work on transmitting sound, reporting: \"Without knowing much about the subject, it seemed to me that if vowel sounds could be produced by electrical means, so could consonants, so could articulate speech.\" He also later remarked: \"I thought that Helmholtz had done it ... and that my failure was due only to my ignorance of electricity. It was a valuable blunder ... If I had been able to read German in those days, I might never have commenced my experiments!\"\n\nIn 1865, when the Bell family moved to London, Bell returned to Weston House as an assistant master and, in his spare hours, continued experiments on sound using a minimum of laboratory equipment. Bell concentrated on experimenting with electricity to convey sound and later installed a telegraph wire from his room in Somerset College to that of a friend. Throughout late 1867, his health faltered mainly through exhaustion. His younger brother, Edward \"Ted,\" was similarly bed-ridden, suffering from tuberculosis. While Bell recovered (by then referring to himself in correspondence as \"A. G. Bell\") and served the next year as an instructor at Somerset College, Bath, England, his brother's condition deteriorated. Edward would never recover. Upon his brother's death, Bell returned home in 1867. His older brother Melville had married and moved out. With aspirations to obtain a degree at University College London, Bell considered his next years as preparation for the degree examinations, devoting his spare time at his family's residence to studying.\n\nHelping his father in Visible Speech demonstrations and lectures brought Bell to Susanna E. Hull's private school for the deaf in South Kensington, London. His first two pupils were deaf-mute girls who made remarkable progress under his tutelage. While his older brother seemed to achieve success on many fronts including opening his own elocution school, applying for a patent on an invention, and starting a family, Bell continued as a teacher. However, in May 1870, Melville died from complications due to tuberculosis, causing a family crisis. His father had also suffered a debilitating illness earlier in life and had been restored to health by a convalescence in Newfoundland. Bell's parents embarked upon a long-planned move when they realized that their remaining son was also sickly. Acting decisively, Alexander Melville Bell asked Bell to arrange for the sale of all the family property, conclude all of his brother's affairs (Bell took over his last student, curing a pronounced lisp), and join his father and mother in setting out for the \"New World\". Reluctantly, Bell also had to conclude a relationship with Marie Eccleston, who, as he had surmised, was not prepared to leave England with him.\n\nIn 1870, aged 23, Bell, together with Bell's brother's widow, Caroline Margaret Ottaway, and his parents travelled on the SS \"Nestorian\" to Canada. After landing at Quebec City, the Bells transferred to another steamer to Montreal and then boarded a train to Paris, Ontario, to stay with the Reverend Thomas Henderson, a family friend. After a brief stay with the Hendersons, the Bell family purchased a farm of at Tutelo Heights (now called Tutela Heights), near Brantford, Ontario. The property consisted of an orchard, large farmhouse, stable, pigsty, hen-house, and a carriage house, which bordered the Grand River.\n\nAt the homestead, Bell set up his own workshop in the converted carriage house near to what he called his \"dreaming place\", a large hollow nestled in trees at the back of the property above the river. Despite his frail condition upon arriving in Canada, Bell found the climate and environs to his liking, and rapidly improved. He continued his interest in the study of the human voice and when he discovered the Six Nations Reserve across the river at Onondaga, he learned the Mohawk language and translated its unwritten vocabulary into Visible Speech symbols. For his work, Bell was awarded the title of Honorary Chief and participated in a ceremony where he donned a Mohawk headdress and danced traditional dances.\n\nAfter setting up his workshop, Bell continued experiments based on Helmholtz's work with electricity and sound. He also modified a melodeon (a type of pump organ) so that it could transmit its music electrically over a distance. Once the family was settled in, both Bell and his father made plans to establish a teaching practice and in 1871, he accompanied his father to Montreal, where Melville was offered a position to teach his System of Visible Speech.\n\nBell's father was invited by Sarah Fuller, principal of the Boston School for Deaf Mutes (which continues today as the public Horace Mann School for the Deaf), in Boston, Massachusetts, United States, to introduce the Visible Speech System by providing training for Fuller's instructors, but he declined the post in favour of his son. Travelling to Boston in April 1871, Bell proved successful in training the school's instructors. He was subsequently asked to repeat the programme at the American Asylum for Deaf-mutes in Hartford, Connecticut, and the Clarke School for the Deaf in Northampton, Massachusetts.\n\nReturning home to Brantford after six months abroad, Bell continued his experiments with his \"harmonic telegraph\". The basic concept behind his device was that messages could be sent through a single wire if each message was transmitted at a different pitch, but work on both the transmitter and receiver was needed.\n\nUnsure of his future, he first contemplated returning to London to complete his studies, but decided to return to Boston as a teacher. His father helped him set up his private practice by contacting Gardiner Greene Hubbard, the president of the Clarke School for the Deaf for a recommendation. Teaching his father's system, in October 1872, Alexander Bell opened his \"School of Vocal Physiology and Mechanics of Speech\" in Boston, which attracted a large number of deaf pupils, with his first class numbering 30 students. While he was working as a private tutor, one of his pupils was Helen Keller, who came to him as a young child unable to see, hear, or speak. She was later to say that Bell dedicated his life to the penetration of that \"inhuman silence which separates and estranges\". In 1893, Keller performed the sod-breaking ceremony for the construction of Bell's new Volta Bureau, dedicated to \"the increase and diffusion of knowledge relating to the deaf\".\n\nSeveral influential people of the time, including Bell, viewed deafness as something that should be eradicated, and also believed that with resources and effort, they could teach the deaf to speak and avoid the use of sign language, thus enabling their integration within the wider society from which many were often being excluded. Owing to his efforts to suppress the teaching of sign language, Bell is often viewed negatively by those embracing Deaf culture.\n\nIn the following year, Bell became professor of Vocal Physiology and Elocution at the Boston University School of Oratory. During this period, he alternated between Boston and Brantford, spending summers in his Canadian home. At Boston University, Bell was \"swept up\" by the excitement engendered by the many scientists and inventors residing in the city. He continued his research in sound and endeavored to find a way to transmit musical notes and articulate speech, but although absorbed by his experiments, he found it difficult to devote enough time to experimentation. While days and evenings were occupied by his teaching and private classes, Bell began to stay awake late into the night, running experiment after experiment in rented facilities at his boarding house. Keeping \"night owl\" hours, he worried that his work would be discovered and took great pains to lock up his notebooks and laboratory equipment. Bell had a specially made table where he could place his notes and equipment inside a locking cover. Worse still, his health deteriorated as he suffered severe headaches. Returning to Boston in fall 1873, Bell made a fateful decision to concentrate on his experiments in sound.\n\nDeciding to give up his lucrative private Boston practice, Bell retained only two students, six-year-old \"Georgie\" Sanders, deaf from birth, and 15-year-old Mabel Hubbard. Each pupil would play an important role in the next developments. George's father, Thomas Sanders, a wealthy businessman, offered Bell a place to stay in nearby Salem with Georgie's grandmother, complete with a room to \"experiment\". Although the offer was made by George's mother and followed the year-long arrangement in 1872 where her son and his nurse had moved to quarters next to Bell's boarding house, it was clear that Mr. Sanders was backing the proposal. The arrangement was for teacher and student to continue their work together, with free room and board thrown in. Mabel was a bright, attractive girl who was ten years Bell's junior but became the object of his affection. Having lost her hearing after a near-fatal bout of scarlet fever close to her fifth birthday, she had learned to read lips but her father, Gardiner Greene Hubbard, Bell's benefactor and personal friend, wanted her to work directly with her teacher.\n\nBy 1874, Bell's initial work on the harmonic telegraph had entered a formative stage, with progress made both at his new Boston \"laboratory\" (a rented facility) and at his family home in Canada a big success. While working that summer in Brantford, Bell experimented with a \"phonautograph\", a pen-like machine that could draw shapes of sound waves on smoked glass by tracing their vibrations. Bell thought it might be possible to generate undulating electrical currents that corresponded to sound waves. Bell also thought that multiple metal reeds tuned to different frequencies like a harp would be able to convert the undulating currents back into sound. But he had no working model to demonstrate the feasibility of these ideas.\n\nIn 1874, telegraph message traffic was rapidly expanding and in the words of Western Union President William Orton, had become \"the nervous system of commerce\". Antonio Meucci sent a telephone model and technical details to the Western Union telegraph company but failed to win a meeting with executives. When he asked for his materials to be returned, in 1874, he was told they had been lost. Two years later Bell, who shared a laboratory with Meucci, filed a patent for a telephone, became a celebrity and made a lucrative deal with Western Union. Meucci sued and was nearing victory - the supreme court agreed to hear the case and fraud charges were initiated against Bell - when the Florentine died in 1889. The legal action died with him. Orton had contracted with inventors Thomas Edison and Elisha Gray to find a way to send multiple telegraph messages on each telegraph line to avoid the great cost of constructing new lines. When Bell mentioned to Gardiner Hubbard and Thomas Sanders that he was working on a method of sending multiple tones on a telegraph wire using a multi-reed device, the two wealthy patrons began to financially support Bell's experiments. Patent matters would be handled by Hubbard's patent attorney, Anthony Pollok.\n\nIn March 1875, Bell and Pollok visited the scientist Joseph Henry, who was then director of the Smithsonian Institution, and asked Henry's advice on the electrical multi-reed apparatus that Bell hoped would transmit the human voice by telegraph. Henry replied that Bell had \"the germ of a great invention\". When Bell said that he did not have the necessary knowledge, Henry replied, \"Get it!\" That declaration greatly encouraged Bell to keep trying, even though he did not have the equipment needed to continue his experiments, nor the ability to create a working model of his ideas. However, a chance meeting in 1874 between Bell and Thomas A. Watson, an experienced electrical designer and mechanic at the electrical machine shop of Charles Williams, changed all that.\n\nWith financial support from Sanders and Hubbard, Bell hired Thomas Watson as his assistant, and the two of them experimented with acoustic telegraphy. On June 2, 1875, Watson accidentally plucked one of the reeds and Bell, at the receiving end of the wire, heard the overtones of the reed; overtones that would be necessary for transmitting speech. That demonstrated to Bell that only one reed or armature was necessary, not multiple reeds. This led to the \"gallows\" sound-powered telephone, which could transmit indistinct, voice-like sounds, but not clear speech.\n\nIn 1875, Bell developed an acoustic telegraph and drew up a patent application for it. Since he had agreed to share U.S. profits with his investors Gardiner Hubbard and Thomas Sanders, Bell requested that an associate in Ontario, George Brown, attempt to patent it in Britain, instructing his lawyers to apply for a patent in the U.S. only after they received word from Britain (Britain would issue patents only for discoveries not previously patented elsewhere).\n\nMeanwhile, Elisha Gray was also experimenting with acoustic telegraphy and thought of a way to transmit speech using a water transmitter. On February 14, 1876, Gray filed a caveat with the U.S. Patent Office for a telephone design that used a water transmitter. That same morning, Bell's lawyer filed Bell's application with the patent office. There is considerable debate about who arrived first and Gray later challenged the primacy of Bell's patent. Bell was in Boston on February 14 and did not arrive in Washington until February 26.\n\nBell's patent 174,465, was issued to Bell on March 7, 1876, by the U.S. Patent Office. Bell's patent covered \"the method of, and apparatus for, transmitting vocal or other sounds telegraphically ... by causing electrical undulations, similar in form to the vibrations of the air accompanying the said vocal or other sound\" Bell returned to Boston the same day and the next day resumed work, drawing in his notebook a diagram similar to that in Gray's patent caveat.\n\nOn March 10, 1876, three days after his patent was issued, Bell succeeded in getting his telephone to work, using a liquid transmitter similar to Gray's design. Vibration of the diaphragm caused a needle to vibrate in the water, varying the electrical resistance in the circuit. When Bell spoke the sentence \"Mr. Watson—Come here—I want to see you\" into the liquid transmitter, Watson, listening at the receiving end in an adjoining room, heard the words clearly.\n\nAlthough Bell was, and still is, accused of stealing the telephone from Gray, Bell used Gray's water transmitter design only after Bell's patent had been granted, and only as a proof of concept scientific experiment, to prove to his own satisfaction that intelligible \"articulate speech\" (Bell's words) could be electrically transmitted. After March 1876, Bell focused on improving the electromagnetic telephone and never used Gray's liquid transmitter in public demonstrations or commercial use.\n\nThe question of priority for the variable resistance feature of the telephone was raised by the examiner before he approved Bell's patent application. He told Bell that his claim for the variable resistance feature was also described in Gray's caveat. Bell pointed to a variable resistance device in Bell's previous application in which Bell described a cup of mercury, not water. Bell had filed the mercury application at the patent office a year earlier on February 25, 1875, long before Elisha Gray described the water device. In addition, Gray abandoned his caveat, and because he did not contest Bell's priority, the examiner approved Bell's patent on March 3, 1876. Gray had reinvented the variable resistance telephone, but Bell was the first to write down the idea and the first to test it in a telephone.\n\nThe patent examiner, Zenas Fisk Wilber, later stated in an affidavit that he was an alcoholic who was much in debt to Bell's lawyer, Marcellus Bailey, with whom he had served in the Civil War. He claimed he showed Gray's patent caveat to Bailey. Wilber also claimed (after Bell arrived in Washington D.C. from Boston) that he showed Gray's caveat to Bell and that Bell paid him $100. Bell claimed they discussed the patent only in general terms, although in a letter to Gray, Bell admitted that he learned some of the technical details. Bell denied in an affidavit that he ever gave Wilber any money.\n\nContinuing his experiments in Brantford, Bell brought home a working model of his telephone. On August 3, 1876, from the telegraph office in Mount Pleasant five miles (eight km) away from Brantford, Bell sent a tentative telegram indicating that he was ready. With curious onlookers packed into the office as witnesses, faint voices were heard replying. The following night, he amazed guests as well as his family when a message was received at the Bell home from Brantford, four miles (six km) distant, along an improvised wire strung up along telegraph lines and fences, and laid through a tunnel. This time, guests at the household distinctly heard people in Brantford reading and singing. These experiments clearly proved that the telephone could work over long distances.\n\nBell and his partners, Hubbard and Sanders, offered to sell the patent outright to Western Union for $100,000. The president of Western Union balked, countering that the telephone was nothing but a toy. Two years later, he told colleagues that if he could get the patent for $25 million he would consider it a bargain. By then, the Bell company no longer wanted to sell the patent. Bell's investors would become millionaires while he fared well from residuals and at one point had assets of nearly one million dollars.\n\nBell began a series of public demonstrations and lectures to introduce the new invention to the scientific community as well as the general public. A short time later, his demonstration of an early telephone prototype at the 1876 Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia brought the telephone to international attention. Influential visitors to the exhibition included Emperor Pedro II of Brazil. Later, Bell had the opportunity to demonstrate the invention personally to Sir William Thomson (later, Lord Kelvin), a renowned Scottish scientist, as well as to Queen Victoria, who had requested a private audience at Osborne House, her Isle of Wight home. She called the demonstration \"most extraordinary\". The enthusiasm surrounding Bell's public displays laid the groundwork for universal acceptance of the revolutionary device.\n\nThe Bell Telephone Company was created in 1877, and by 1886, more than 150,000 people in the U.S. owned telephones. Bell Company engineers made numerous other improvements to the telephone, which emerged as one of the most successful products ever. In 1879, the Bell company acquired Edison's patents for the carbon microphone from Western Union. This made the telephone practical for longer distances, and it was no longer necessary to shout to be heard at the receiving telephone.\n\nEmperor Pedro II of Brazil was the first person to buy stock in Bell's company, the Bell Telephone Company. One of the first telephones in a private residence was installed in his palace in Petrópolis, his summer retreat forty miles from Rio de Janeiro.\n\nIn January 1915, Bell made the first ceremonial transcontinental telephone call. Calling from the AT&T head office at 15 Dey Street in New York City, Bell was heard by Thomas Watson at 333 Grant Avenue in San Francisco. The \"New York Times\" reported:\n\nAs is sometimes common in scientific discoveries, simultaneous developments can occur, as evidenced by a number of inventors who were at work on the telephone. Over a period of 18 years, the Bell Telephone Company faced 587 court challenges to its patents, including five that went to the U.S. Supreme Court, but none was successful in establishing priority over the original Bell patent and the Bell Telephone Company never lost a case that had proceeded to a final trial stage. Bell's laboratory notes and family letters were the key to establishing a long lineage to his experiments. The Bell company lawyers successfully fought off myriad lawsuits generated initially around the challenges by Elisha Gray and Amos Dolbear. In personal correspondence to Bell, both Gray and Dolbear had acknowledged his prior work, which considerably weakened their later claims.\n\nOn January 13, 1887, the U.S. Government moved to annul the patent issued to Bell on the grounds of fraud and misrepresentation. After a series of decisions and reversals, the Bell company won a decision in the Supreme Court, though a couple of the original claims from the lower court cases were left undecided. By the time that the trial wound its way through nine years of legal battles, the U.S. prosecuting attorney had died and the two Bell patents (No. 174,465 dated March 7, 1876, and No. 186,787 dated January 30, 1877) were no longer in effect, although the presiding judges agreed to continue the proceedings due to the case's importance as a precedent. With a change in administration and charges of conflict of interest (on both sides) arising from the original trial, the US Attorney General dropped the lawsuit on November 30, 1897, leaving several issues undecided on the merits.\n\nDuring a deposition filed for the 1887 trial, Italian inventor Antonio Meucci also claimed to have created the first working model of a telephone in Italy in 1834. In 1886, in the first of three cases in which he was involved, Meucci took the stand as a witness in the hopes of establishing his invention's priority. Meucci's testimony in this case was disputed due to a lack of material evidence for his inventions, as his working models were purportedly lost at the laboratory of American District Telegraph (ADT) of New York, which was later incorporated as a subsidiary of Western Union in 1901. Meucci's work, like many other inventors of the period, was based on earlier acoustic principles and despite evidence of earlier experiments, the final case involving Meucci was eventually dropped upon Meucci's death. However, due to the efforts of Congressman Vito Fossella, the U.S. House of Representatives on June 11, 2002, stated that Meucci's \"work in the invention of the telephone should be acknowledged\". This did not put an end to the still-contentious issue. Some modern scholars do not agree with the claims that Bell's work on the telephone was influenced by Meucci's inventions.\n\nThe value of the Bell patent was acknowledged throughout the world, and patent applications were made in most major countries, but when Bell delayed the German patent application, the electrical firm of Siemens & Halske (S&H) set up a rival manufacturer of Bell telephones under their own patent. The Siemens company produced near-identical copies of the Bell telephone without having to pay royalties. The establishment of the International Bell Telephone Company in Brussels, Belgium in 1880, as well as a series of agreements in other countries eventually consolidated a global telephone operation. The strain put on Bell by his constant appearances in court, necessitated by the legal battles, eventually resulted in his resignation from the company.\n\nOn July 11, 1877, a few days after the Bell Telephone Company was established, Bell married Mabel Hubbard (1857–1923) at the Hubbard estate in Cambridge, Massachusetts. His wedding present to his bride was to turn over 1,487 of his 1,497 shares in the newly formed Bell Telephone Company. Shortly thereafter, the newlyweds embarked on a year-long honeymoon in Europe. During that excursion, Bell took a handmade model of his telephone with him, making it a \"working holiday\". The courtship had begun years earlier; however, Bell waited until he was more financially secure before marrying. Although the telephone appeared to be an \"instant\" success, it was not initially a profitable venture and Bell's main sources of income were from lectures until after 1897. One unusual request exacted by his fiancée was that he use \"Alec\" rather than the family's earlier familiar name of \"Aleck\". From 1876, he would sign his name \"Alec Bell\". They had four children:\nThe Bell family home was in Cambridge, Massachusetts, until 1880 when Bell's father-in-law bought a house in Washington, D.C.; in 1882 he bought a home in the same city for Bell's family, so they could be with him while he attended to the numerous court cases involving patent disputes.\n\nBell was a British subject throughout his early life in Scotland and later in Canada until 1882 when he became a naturalized citizen of the United States. In 1915, he characterized his status as: \"I am not one of those hyphenated Americans who claim allegiance to two countries.\" Despite this declaration, Bell has been proudly claimed as a \"native son\" by all three countries he resided in: the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom.\n\nBy 1885, a new summer retreat was contemplated. That summer, the Bells had a vacation on Cape Breton Island in Nova Scotia, spending time at the small village of Baddeck. Returning in 1886, Bell started building an estate on a point across from Baddeck, overlooking Bras d'Or Lake. By 1889, a large house, christened \"The Lodge\" was completed and two years later, a larger complex of buildings, including a new laboratory, were begun that the Bells would name Beinn Bhreagh (Gaelic: \"beautiful mountain\") after Bell's ancestral Scottish highlands. Bell also built the Bell Boatyard on the estate, employing up to 40 people building experimental craft as well as wartime lifeboats and workboats for the Royal Canadian Navy and pleasure craft for the Bell family. He was an enthusiastic boater, and Bell and his family sailed or rowed a long series of vessels on Bras d'Or Lake, ordering additional vessels from the H.W. Embree and Sons boatyard in Port Hawkesbury, Nova Scotia. In his final, and some of his most productive years, Bell split his residency between Washington, D.C., where he and his family initially resided for most of the year, and Beinn Bhreagh, where they spent increasing amounts of time.\n\nUntil the end of his life, Bell and his family would alternate between the two homes, but \"Beinn Bhreagh\" would, over the next 30 years, become more than a summer home as Bell became so absorbed in his experiments that his annual stays lengthened. Both Mabel and Bell became immersed in the Baddeck community and were accepted by the villagers as \"their own\". The Bells were still in residence at \"Beinn Bhreagh\" when the Halifax Explosion occurred on December 6, 1917. Mabel and Bell mobilized the community to help victims in Halifax.\n\nAlthough Alexander Graham Bell is most often associated with the invention of the telephone, his interests were extremely varied. According to one of his biographers, Charlotte Gray, Bell's work ranged \"unfettered across the scientific landscape\" and he often went to bed voraciously reading the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", scouring it for new areas of interest. The range of Bell's inventive genius is represented only in part by the 18 patents granted in his name alone and the 12 he shared with his collaborators. These included 14 for the telephone and telegraph, four for the photophone, one for the phonograph, five for aerial vehicles, four for \"hydroairplanes\", and two for selenium cells. Bell's inventions spanned a wide range of interests and included a metal jacket to assist in breathing, the audiometer to detect minor hearing problems, a device to locate icebergs, investigations on how to separate salt from seawater, and work on finding alternative fuels.\n\nBell worked extensively in medical research and invented techniques for teaching speech to the deaf. During his Volta Laboratory period, Bell and his associates considered impressing a magnetic field on a record as a means of reproducing sound. Although the trio briefly experimented with the concept, they could not develop a workable prototype. They abandoned the idea, never realizing they had glimpsed a basic principle which would one day find its application in the tape recorder, the hard disc and floppy disc drive, and other magnetic media.\n\nBell's own home used a primitive form of air conditioning, in which fans blew currents of air across great blocks of ice. He also anticipated modern concerns with fuel shortages and industrial pollution. Methane gas, he reasoned, could be produced from the waste of farms and factories. At his Canadian estate in Nova Scotia, he experimented with composting toilets and devices to capture water from the atmosphere. In a magazine interview published shortly before his death, he reflected on the possibility of using solar panels to heat houses.\n\nBell and his assistant Charles Sumner Tainter jointly invented a wireless telephone, named a photophone, which allowed for the transmission of both sounds and normal human conversations on a beam of light. Both men later became full associates in the Volta Laboratory Association.\n\nOn June 21, 1880, Bell's assistant transmitted a wireless voice telephone message a considerable distance, from the roof of the Franklin School in Washington, D.C., to Bell at the window of his laboratory, some away, 19 years before the first voice radio transmissions.\n\nBell believed the photophone's principles were his life's \"greatest achievement\", telling a reporter shortly before his death that the photophone was \"the greatest invention [I have] ever made, greater than the telephone\". The photophone was a precursor to the fiber-optic communication systems which achieved popular worldwide usage in the 1980s. Its master patent was issued in December 1880, many decades before the photophone's principles came into popular use.\n\nBell is also credited with developing one of the early versions of a metal detector in 1881. The device was quickly put together in an attempt to find the bullet in the body of U.S. President James Garfield. According to some accounts, the metal detector worked flawlessly in tests but did not find the assassin's bullet partly because the metal bed frame on which the President was lying disturbed the instrument, resulting in static. The president's surgeons, who were skeptical of the device, ignored Bell's requests to move the president to a bed not fitted with metal springs. Alternatively, although Bell had detected a slight sound on his first test, the bullet may have been lodged too deeply to be detected by the crude apparatus.\n\nBell's own detailed account, presented to the American Association for the Advancement of Science in 1882, differs in several particulars from most of the many and varied versions now in circulation, by concluding that extraneous metal was not to blame for failure to locate the bullet. Perplexed by the peculiar results he had obtained during an examination of Garfield, Bell \"proceeded to the Executive Mansion the next morning ... to ascertain from the surgeons whether they were perfectly sure that all metal had been removed from the neighborhood of the bed. It was then recollected that underneath the horse-hair mattress on which the President lay was another mattress composed of steel wires. Upon obtaining a duplicate, the mattress was found to consist of a sort of net of woven steel wires, with large meshes. The extent of the [area that produced a response from the detector] having been so small, as compared with the area of the bed, it seemed reasonable to conclude that the steel mattress had produced no detrimental effect.\" In a footnote, Bell adds, \"The death of President Garfield and the subsequent \"post-mortem\" examination, however, proved that the bullet was at too great a distance from the surface to have affected our apparatus.\"\n\nThe March 1906 \"Scientific American\" article by American pioneer William E. Meacham explained the basic principle of hydrofoils and hydroplanes. Bell considered the invention of the hydroplane as a very significant achievement. Based on information gained from that article, he began to sketch concepts of what is now called a hydrofoil boat. Bell and assistant Frederick W. \"Casey\" Baldwin began hydrofoil experimentation in the summer of 1908 as a possible aid to airplane takeoff from water. Baldwin studied the work of the Italian inventor Enrico Forlanini and began testing models. This led him and Bell to the development of practical hydrofoil watercraft.\n\nDuring his world tour of 1910–11, Bell and Baldwin met with Forlanini in France. They had rides in the Forlanini hydrofoil boat over Lake Maggiore. Baldwin described it as being as smooth as flying. On returning to Baddeck, a number of initial concepts were built as experimental models, including the \"Dhonnas Beag\" (Scottish Gaelic for \"little devil\"), the first self-propelled Bell-Baldwin hydrofoil. The experimental boats were essentially proof-of-concept prototypes that culminated in the more substantial HD-4, powered by Renault engines. A top speed of was achieved, with the hydrofoil exhibiting rapid acceleration, good stability, and steering, along with the ability to take waves without difficulty. In 1913, Dr. Bell hired Walter Pinaud, a Sydney yacht designer and builder as well as the proprietor of Pinaud's Yacht Yard in Westmount, Nova Scotia to work on the pontoons of the HD-4. Pinaud soon took over the boatyard at Bell Laboratories on Beinn Bhreagh, Bell's estate near Baddeck, Nova Scotia. Pinaud's experience in boat-building enabled him to make useful design changes to the HD-4. After the First World War, work began again on the HD-4. Bell's report to the U.S. Navy permitted him to obtain two engines in July 1919. On September 9, 1919, the HD-4 set a world marine speed record of , a record which stood for ten years.\n\nIn 1891, Bell had begun experiments to develop motor-powered heavier-than-air aircraft. The AEA was first formed as Bell shared the vision to fly with his wife, who advised him to seek \"young\" help as Bell was at the age of 60.\n\nIn 1898, Bell experimented with tetrahedral box kites and wings constructed of multiple compound tetrahedral kites covered in maroon silk. The tetrahedral wings were named \"Cygnet\" I, II, and III, and were flown both unmanned and manned (\"Cygnet I\" crashed during a flight carrying Selfridge) in the period from 1907–1912. Some of Bell's kites are on display at the Alexander Graham Bell National Historic Site.\n\nBell was a supporter of aerospace engineering research through the Aerial Experiment Association (AEA), officially formed at Baddeck, Nova Scotia, in October 1907 at the suggestion of his wife Mabel and with her financial support after the sale of some of her real estate. The AEA was headed by Bell and the founding members were four young men: American Glenn H. Curtiss, a motorcycle manufacturer at the time and who held the title \"world's fastest man\", having ridden his self-constructed motor bicycle around in the shortest time, and who was later awarded the Scientific American Trophy for the first official one-kilometre flight in the Western hemisphere, and who later became a world-renowned airplane manufacturer; Lieutenant Thomas Selfridge, an official observer from the U.S. Federal government and one of the few people in the army who believed that aviation was the future; Frederick W. Baldwin, the first Canadian and first British subject to pilot a public flight in Hammondsport, New York; and J. A .D. McCurdy–Baldwin and McCurdy being new engineering graduates from the University of Toronto.\n\nThe AEA's work progressed to heavier-than-air machines, applying their knowledge of kites to gliders. Moving to Hammondsport, the group then designed and built the \"Red Wing\", framed in bamboo and covered in red silk and powered by a small air-cooled engine. On March 12, 1908, over Keuka Lake, the biplane lifted off on the first public flight in North America. The innovations that were incorporated into this design included a cockpit enclosure and tail rudder (later variations on the original design would add ailerons as a means of control). One of the AEA's inventions, a practical wingtip form of the aileron, was to become a standard component on all aircraft. The \"White Wing\" and \"June Bug\" were to follow and by the end of 1908, over 150 flights without mishap had been accomplished. However, the AEA had depleted its initial reserves and only a $15,000 grant from Mrs. Bell allowed it to continue with experiments. Lt. Selfridge had also become the first person killed in a powered heavier-than-air flight in a crash of the Wright Flyer at Fort Myer, Virginia, on September 17, 1908.\n\nTheir final aircraft design, the \"Silver Dart\", embodied all of the advancements found in the earlier machines. On February 23, 1909, Bell was present as the \"Silver Dart\" flown by J. A. D. McCurdy from the frozen ice of Bras d'Or made the first aircraft flight in Canada. Bell had worried that the flight was too dangerous and had arranged for a doctor to be on hand. With the successful flight, the AEA disbanded and the \"Silver Dart\" would revert to Baldwin and McCurdy, who began the Canadian Aerodrome Company and would later demonstrate the aircraft to the Canadian Army.\n\nBell was connected with the eugenics movement in the United States. In his lecture \"Memoir upon the formation of a deaf variety of the human race\" presented to the National Academy of Sciences on November 13, 1883, he noted that congenitally deaf parents were more likely to produce deaf children and tentatively suggested that couples where both parties were deaf should not marry. However, it was his hobby of livestock breeding which led to his appointment to biologist David Starr Jordan's Committee on Eugenics, under the auspices of the American Breeders' Association. The committee unequivocally extended the principle to humans. From 1912 until 1918, he was the chairman of the board of scientific advisers to the Eugenics Record Office associated with Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory in New York, and regularly attended meetings. In 1921, he was the honorary president of the Second International Congress of Eugenics held under the auspices of the American Museum of Natural History in New York. Organizations such as these advocated passing laws (with success in some states) that established the compulsory sterilization of people deemed to be, as Bell called them, a \"defective variety of the human race\". By the late 1930s, about half the states in the U.S. had eugenics laws, and California's compulsory sterilization law was used as a model for that of Nazi Germany.\n\nHonors and tributes flowed to Bell in increasing numbers as his invention became ubiquitous and his personal fame grew. Bell received numerous honorary degrees from colleges and universities to the point that the requests almost became burdensome. During his life, he also received dozens of major awards, medals, and other tributes. These included statuary monuments to both him and the new form of communication his telephone created, including the Bell Telephone Memorial erected in his honor in \"Alexander Graham Bell Gardens\" in Brantford, Ontario, in 1917.\n\nA large number of Bell's writings, personal correspondence, notebooks, papers, and other documents reside in both the United States Library of Congress Manuscript Division (as the \"Alexander Graham Bell Family Papers\"), and at the Alexander Graham Bell Institute, Cape Breton University, Nova Scotia; major portions of which are available for online viewing.\n\nA number of historic sites and other marks commemorate Bell in North America and Europe, including the first telephone companies in the United States and Canada. Among the major sites are:\n\nIn 1880, Bell received the Volta Prize with a purse of 50,000 French francs (approximately US$ in today's dollars) for the invention of the telephone from the French government. Among the luminaries who judged were Victor Hugo and Alexandre Dumas, \"fils\". The Volta Prize was conceived by Napoleon III in 1852, and named in honor of Alessandro Volta, with Bell becoming the second recipient of the grand prize in its history. Since Bell was becoming increasingly affluent, he used his prize money to create endowment funds (the 'Volta Fund') and institutions in and around the United States capital of Washington, D.C.. These included the prestigious\" 'Volta Laboratory Association' \"(1880), also known as the\" Volta Laboratory \"and as the\" 'Alexander Graham Bell Laboratory', \"and which eventually led to the Volta Bureau (1887) as a center for studies on deafness which is still in operation in Georgetown, Washington, D.C. The Volta Laboratory became an experimental facility devoted to scientific discovery, and the very next year it improved Edison's phonograph by substituting wax for tinfoil as the recording medium and incising the recording rather than indenting it, key upgrades that Edison himself later adopted. The laboratory was also the site where he and his associate invented his \"proudest achievement\", \"the photophone\", the \"optical telephone\" which presaged fibre optical telecommunications while the Volta Bureau would later evolve into the Alexander Graham Bell Association for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing (the AG Bell), a leading center for the research and pedagogy of deafness.\n\nIn partnership with Gardiner Greene Hubbard, Bell helped establish the publication \"Science\" during the early 1880s. In 1898, Bell was elected as the second president of the National Geographic Society, serving until 1903, and was primarily responsible for the extensive use of illustrations, including photography, in the magazine. He also served for many years as a Regent of the Smithsonian Institution (1898–1922). The French government conferred on him the decoration of the Légion d'honneur (Legion of Honor); the Royal Society of Arts in London awarded him the Albert Medal in 1902; the University of Würzburg, Bavaria, granted him a PhD, and he was awarded the Franklin Institute's Elliott Cresson Medal in 1912. He was one of the founders of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers in 1884 and served as its president from 1891–92. Bell was later awarded the AIEE's Edison Medal in 1914 \"For meritorious achievement in the invention of the telephone\".\n\nThe \"bel\" (B) and the smaller \"decibel\" (dB) are units of measurement of power level invented by Bell Labs and named after him. Since 1976, the IEEE's Alexander Graham Bell Medal has been awarded to honor outstanding contributions in the field of telecommunications.\nIn 1936, the US Patent Office declared Bell first on its list of the country's greatest inventors, leading to the US Post Office issuing a commemorative stamp honoring Bell in 1940 as part of its 'Famous Americans Series'. The First Day of Issue ceremony was held on October 28 in Boston, Massachusetts, the city where Bell spent considerable time on research and working with the deaf. The Bell stamp became very popular and sold out in little time. The stamp became, and remains to this day, the most valuable one of the series.\n\nThe 150th anniversary of Bell's birth in 1997 was marked by a special issue of commemorative £1 banknotes from the Royal Bank of Scotland. The illustrations on the reverse of the note include Bell's face in profile, his signature, and objects from Bell's life and career: users of the telephone over the ages; an audio wave signal; a diagram of a telephone receiver; geometric shapes from engineering structures; representations of sign language and the phonetic alphabet; the geese which helped him to understand flight; and the sheep which he studied to understand genetics. Additionally, the Government of Canada honored Bell in 1997 with a C$100 gold coin, in tribute also to the 150th anniversary of his birth, and with a silver dollar coin in 2009 in honor of the 100th anniversary of flight in Canada. That first flight was made by an airplane designed under Dr. Bell's tutelage, named the Silver Dart. Bell's image, and also those of his many inventions have graced paper money, coinage, and postal stamps in numerous countries worldwide for many dozens of years.\n\nAlexander Graham Bell was ranked 57th among the 100 Greatest Britons (2002) in an official BBC nationwide poll, and among the Top Ten Greatest Canadians (2004), and the 100 Greatest Americans (2005). In 2006, Bell was also named as one of the 10 greatest Scottish scientists in history after having been listed in the National Library of Scotland's 'Scottish Science Hall of Fame'. Bell's name is still widely known and used as part of the names of dozens of educational institutes, corporate namesakes, street and place names around the world.\n\nAlexander Graham Bell, who could not complete the university program of his youth, received at least a dozen honorary degrees from academic institutions, including eight honorary LL.D.s (Doctorate of Laws), two Ph.D.s, a D.Sc., and an M.D.:\n\n\n\nBell died of complications arising from diabetes on August 2, 1922, at his private estate in Cape Breton, Nova Scotia, at age 75. Bell had also been afflicted with pernicious anemia. His last view of the land he had inhabited was by moonlight on his mountain estate at 2:00 a.m. While tending to him after his long illness, Mabel, his wife, whispered, \"Don't leave me.\" By way of reply, Bell signed \"no...\", lost consciousness, and died shortly after.\n\nOn learning of Bell's death, the Canadian Prime Minister, Mackenzie King, cabled Mrs. Bell, saying:\nMy colleagues in the Government join with me in expressing to you our sense of the world's loss in the death of your distinguished husband. It will ever be a source of pride to our country that the great invention, with which his name is immortally associated, is a part of its history. On the behalf of the citizens of Canada, may I extend to you an expression of our combined gratitude and sympathy.\n\nBell's coffin was constructed of Beinn Bhreagh pine by his laboratory staff, lined with the same red silk fabric used in his tetrahedral kite experiments. To help celebrate his life, his wife asked guests not to wear black (the traditional funeral color) while attending his service, during which soloist Jean MacDonald sang a verse of Robert Louis Stevenson's \"Requiem\":\n\nUpon the conclusion of Bell's funeral, \"every phone on the continent of North America was silenced in honor of the man who had given to mankind the means for direct communication at a distance\".\n\nDr. Alexander Graham Bell was buried atop Beinn Bhreagh mountain, on his estate where he had resided increasingly for the last 35 years of his life, overlooking Bras d'Or Lake. He was survived by his wife Mabel, his two daughters, Elsie May and Marian, and nine of his grandchildren.\n\n\n\n\"U.S. patent images in TIFF format\"\n\n"}
{"id": "35912816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35912816", "title": "Anacarsis Lanús", "text": "Anacarsis Lanús\n\nAnacarsis Lanús (Concepción del Uruguay, Entre Ríos, Nov 14, 1820 – Oct 14, 1888) was an Argentine entrepreneur of French and Greek origin.\n\nHe had a formidable role during the years of the secessionist State of Buenos Aires movement. He was also Deputy Head of Police in the city of Buenos Aires.\n\nLater, during the War of Triple Alliance, he turned one of the richest men in his country as a purveyor to the Triple Alliance armies, and also during the Conquest of the Desert.\n\n"}
{"id": "12408643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12408643", "title": "Blank endorsement", "text": "Blank endorsement\n\nBlank endorsement of a financial instrument, such as a cheque, is only a signature, not indicating the payee. The effect of this is that it is payable only to the bearer – legally, it transforms an order instrument (\"pay to the \"order of\" (the payee)\") into a bearer instrument (\"pay to the bearer\"). It is one of the types of endorsement of a negotiable instrument.\n\nIt is \"an endorsement consisting of nothing but a signature and allowing any party in possession of the endorsed item to execute a claim.\"\n\nA blank endorsement is a commonly known and accepted term in the legal and business worlds.\n\nThis is also called an \"endorsement in blank\" or \"blank endorsement\". \n\nThe prevalent spelling in American English is \"en\"dorsement; the minority convention, \"in\"dorsement, is found in older American documents, although the revised Uniform Commercial Code Article on negotiable instruments retains the older spelling.\n"}
{"id": "28083964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28083964", "title": "British Interactive Media Association", "text": "British Interactive Media Association\n\nThe British Interactive Media Association (BIMA) is a not-for-profit industry body representing the digital industry in the United Kingdom.\n\nFormed in 1985, BIMA is a membership organisation primarily made up of digital agencies. It has offices in England, Scotland and Wales, as well as regional representatives across the UK, and a membership extending to several thousand individual digital professionals.\n\nThe organisation is run by an elected Executive Committee of 13 Members who are voted in at the AGM.\n\nBIMA's purpose is to represent the interactive media and digital content sector in the UK. Its core objectives are to promote the British digital industry, share knowledge and best practice, recognise excellence and support the next generation of digital professionals. Nationally, BIMA acts as a liaison with academia and the government, acting as a united voice for its members and aiming to drive commercial growth in the sector. Globally it champions the UK's digital industry to foster an internationally competitive industry.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "612856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=612856", "title": "Brownell-Talbot School", "text": "Brownell-Talbot School\n\nBrownell Talbot School is an independent, co-educational, college preparatory day school located in Omaha, Nebraska, United States. It serves students from preschool through grade 12.\n\nIn the mid-19th century, Omaha joined progressive cities that were establishing schools for girls' education. The Episcopal Church founded Brownell Hall, an all-girls secondary boarding school three miles north of Omaha in Saratoga. It officially opened on September 17, 1863. Located at present-day 400 North Happy Hollow, this private religious school was named after an Episcopal bishop of Connecticut, and was first located in the Saratoga Springs Hotel, a defunct resort. Students came to the school from Nebraska City, Bellevue, Florence, Fontanelle, Decatur and Omaha. The school moved to 16th and Jones in 1867, and in 1883 to 10th Street in downtown Omaha. In 1923 it moved to a central Omaha location. It became co-educational in 1963, ending 100 years of boarding girls. In 1968, the school became independent, breaking official ties with the Episcopal Church. Today it is the oldest school in continuous operation in Nebraska.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16365014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16365014", "title": "Bush–Davis–Walker family political line", "text": "Bush–Davis–Walker family political line\n\nThe Bush-Davis-Walker family is a political family from the United States that includes former Presidents George H. W. Bush and George W. Bush. The family's political involvement spans period from 18th to the 21st centuries.\n\n"}
{"id": "2254416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2254416", "title": "Business record", "text": "Business record\n\nA business record is a document (hard copy or digital) that records a business dealing. Business records include meeting minutes, memoranda, employment contracts, and .\n\nIt must be retrievable at a later date so that the business dealings can be accurately reviewed as required. Since business is dependent upon confidence and trust, not only must the record be accurate and easily retrieved, the processes surrounding its creation and retrieval must be perceived by customers and the business community to consistently deliver a full and accurate record with no gaps or additions.\n\nMost business records have specified retention periods based on legal requirements and / or internal company policies. This is important because in many countries (including the United States) many documents \"may\" be required by law to be disclosed to government regulatory agencies or to the general public. Likewise, they \"may\" be discoverable if the business is sued. Under the business records exception in the Federal Rules of Evidence, certain types of business records, particularly those made and kept with regularity, may be considered admissible in court despite containing hearsay.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55286326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55286326", "title": "CEDEP", "text": "CEDEP\n\nCEDEP, also known as The European Centre for Executive Development (in French, Le Centre Européen d'Education Permanente), is an international, not-for-profit organization co-located on the INSEAD campus in Fontainebleau, France, about 50 km from Paris. Founded in 1972, it operates as an executive club and corporate university for a diverse set of 20 global companies including L’Oréal, Aviva, Renault, Bekaert, Valeo, AXA, GDF Suez, and TATA Steel. CEDEP offers two types of programs: Open Enrollment, available to managers from all member companies, and Company Specific programs. Most programs are delivered on CEDEP's purpose-built, residential campus, but in recent years CEDEP has been delivering programs off-campus, notably in China, Brazil, and Canada.\n\nCEDEP was created over 40 years ago by a group of European companies as an executive education club, and was among the first corporate-founded membership institutions in Europe dedicated to executive education. In its early days, CEDEP was essentially a sister organization to INSEAD, which at the time focused on MBA education. Faculty teaching at CEDEP in its early years were drawn almost exclusively from INSEAD's more experienced faculty, notably Henri-Claude de Bettignies, Robin Hogarth, Claude Rameau, and Lee Remmers.\n\nThe initial impetus was led by L'Oréal's head of Human Resources, Guy Landon, and François Dalle, its CEO. They were joined by and Jean-Leon Donnadieu (BSN, which later merged with Gervais-Danone), (Pricel and Rhone Progil, which would become part of the Rhone-Poulenc group), (Bekaert), and René Dunant (Sandoz). The three main objectives for the founders were to: (1) expose managers to a mix of nationalities and industry contexts; (2) provide participants with a contrast between the theories and practice of management; and (3) create a force for change within their companies by establishing a critical mass of managers who had shared a key educational experience.\n\nThe CEDEP campus was opened in 1971 by the then French Finance Minister, Valery Giscard d'Estaing, who was to become France's President just three years later. Designed by a contemporary French architect, Bernard de la Tour d'Auvergne, who also helped design the original buildings on the INSEAD campus, the buildings combine brick and glass to reflect the colors of the surrounding Fontainebleau Forest. The buildings were extended in 2000 with additional wings that conserve the architectural style of the original buildings. The campus grounds also feature large sculptures by a number of celebrated European sculptors, including , who designed the original campus, and Francesco Marino di Teana. The campus interior houses a notable collection of contemporary wall carpets by the likes of Sonia Delaunay (co-founder of the Orphism movement), and Natalia Dumitresco.\n\nCEDEP's evolution was greatly influenced by two long-serving Directors. In 1971 Salvatore Teresi, an INSEAD Marketing professor who was also one of CEDEP's founders, became its first Director General. Over the following 20 years he oversaw an expansion in membership to 23 companies that resulted in more than 6,000 participants attending CEDEP's programs.\n\nClaude Michaud, Teresi's Deputy Director (and also an INSEAD professor), took over in 1991 and led CEDEP for the next 16 years. Under his leadership CEDEP extended its membership to 20 members, including companies from outside Europe, most notably Tata Steel. It was also under Michaud's tenure that CEDEP started offering off-campus programs, in Hong Kong, Singapore, and India. Under the tenure of Michaud's successor, Han van Dissel, CEDEP extended its overseas activities, offering off-campus programs in China, Brazil, Canada and South Korea.\n\nIn 1979, an INSEAD decision-science professor, Robin M Hogarth, who also taught at CEDEP, undertook an in-depth study of CEDEP's General Management Program in order to assess whether executive education improved managerial decision-making. This project resulted in a book, \"Evaluating Management Education,\" published by John Wiley & Sons in 1979 ( ).\n\n\nCEDEP currently has 21 members, which have been with CEDEP for an average of 15 years (a third for over 25 years). Membership is not exclusive and there is no membership fee, simply a commitment to enroll a minimum number of participants on CEDEP programmes. Admission to the consortium requires approval by existing members.\n\nCEDEP directly employs 26 people in program design, support, and member relationship roles. Leadership is provided by a Director, who reports to the CEDEP Board, which is appointed by member companies. The current Director is Thomas Hinterseer.\n\n\nMembership relations are largely maintained through CEDEP's Fellows Program. Each member is assigned a CEDEP Fellow, who is typically a regular CEDEP faculty participant. Fellows typically serve as program directors for their Company, work with the Dean of Programmes to develop courses, and assist the Director General in recruiting new members.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34319444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34319444", "title": "Camden Central Business District", "text": "Camden Central Business District\n\nThe Camden Central Business District (or Downtown Camden) is the downtown section of Camden, New Jersey. According to the 2000 U.S. Census, the district has a population of 1,734.\n"}
{"id": "4923825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4923825", "title": "Caterpillar Construction Tycoon", "text": "Caterpillar Construction Tycoon\n\nCaterpillar Construction Tycoon is a business simulation game in which the player manages multiple construction sites. It was developed by Gabriel Entertainment, and published by Activision Value on September 15, 2005 for the PC. The object of this game, as in all tycoon computer games, is to become a tycoon, and in this case, a Construction Tycoon.\n\nIn this game, players must successfully manage different construction facilities around the world. In order to keep it running smoothly, they must draft Caterpillar Construction vehicles in addition to managing their employees time schedules and salaries.\n"}
{"id": "36303467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36303467", "title": "Chris Cheong", "text": "Chris Cheong\n\nChristopher Cheong Kit Kei (張杰棋 born 18 November 1992 in Penang), better known by the stage name Chris Cheong is an international mentalist and illusionist. He was previously credited to be one of Malaysia's youngest professional mentalist and magician. He is public voted as one of Malaysia's top 1 magician.\n\nCheong has made multiple appearances internationally, performing in Thailand, Indonesia, Singapore and Brunei. His first public appearance in the television scene at Radio Televisyen Malaysia as guest and later signed as their TV host on the series Kids on 2 and Lava Kids.\n\nRaised in Kuala Lumpur, the capital of Malaysia, Cheong attended American public school before pursuing a degree in psychology from HELP University. Cheong first became interested in magic at the age of 8 when he was attracted by his birthday present,magic set from Toys \"R\" Us. From then, he began working on his magic skills, and at the age of 13, he started performing in events.\n\nAt age 15, Cheong made his first public appearance in Radio Televisyen Malaysia. A year later, he is signed as their magic segment TV host for TV series Kids on 2 and Lava Kids.\n\nCheong also appeared on other local media channel such as \"Bella\", a Ntv7 programme and being interviewed by Deborah Priya Henry, \"Miss Universe Malaysia 2011\".\n\nIn December 2012, Cheong made his first international artist collaboration with Sungha Jung, a South Korean acoustic finger-style guitarist who has risen to fame on YouTube.\n\nIn January 2014, in conjunction of Spring Fest, the annual social & cultural festival of Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur held during the month of January in the spring semester, Cheong was invited as one of the international guest artist to perform.\nIn September 2015, Chris was invited as a guest performer representing Malaysia for Techniche, the annual Techno-Management festival of Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati, India.\n\nIn February 2016, Chris was invited to be the opening act of Quark, BITS Pilani Goa, one of the biggest festivals of its kind in India.\n\nIn March 2017, Chris Cheong performed at Pragyan, The largest student run (ISO Certified) Techno-Management fest of NIT Trichy.\n\nIn May 2017, Chris Cheong performed on board MV Glory Sea (Previously known as MV Celestyal Odyssey.\n\nIn 2017, Chris Cheong produces 8 live shows everyday in NagaWorld by NagaCorp Ltd.\n\nIn year 2012, Cheong became the brand ambassador of Fullhouse Lifestyle Store and Cafe.\n\nIn Year 2013, Cheong launches a collaboration production with local sponsors for an online street magic series, title Mind & Magic.\n\nApart from his performing career, Cheong owns a side business which uses the art of magic and education as single package, better known as Magic-A-Learning Course.\n\n"}
{"id": "1899519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1899519", "title": "Competition and Consumer Act 2010", "text": "Competition and Consumer Act 2010\n\nThe Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (CCA) is an Act of the Parliament of Australia. Prior to 1 January 2011, it was known as the Trade Practices Act 1974 (TPA). The Act is the legislative vehicle for competition law in Australia, and seeks to promote competition, fair trading as well as providing protection for consumers. It is administered by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) and also gives some rights for private action. Schedule 2 of the CCA sets out the Australian Consumer Law (ACL). The Australian Federal Court has the jurisdiction to determine private and public complaints made in regard to contraventions of the Act.\n\nThe Competition and Consumer Act (CCA) is an act of the Parliament of Australia and so its application is limited by section 51 of the Australian Constitution, which sets out the division of powers between the federal and state parliaments. As a result, most of the CCA is drafted to apply only to corporations, thus relying on Section 51(xx). Some parts of the CCA have a broader operation, relying for instance on the telecommunications power (Section 51(v)) or the territories power.\n\nThe Australian Consumer Law (ACL) is applied as state law through the Fair Trading Acts in each Australian State and Territory, to extend the application of the ACL to individuals. The Act exempts the Commonwealth, State and Territory governments from some provisions of the Act. The immunity from the Act does not generally derive to third parties who deal with the government: see \"Australian Competition and Consumer Commission v Baxter Healthcare\". The article: 'Consumer Protection Law in Australia' (LexisNexis 2011) by Ven. Alex Bruce ('Tenpa') was the first Australian text to critically analyze the most extensive changes to consumer protection law embodied within the Competition and Consumer Act 2010.\n\nThe CCA establishes four organisations with a role in administering the Act:\n\nPart IIIA of the CCA deals with third party access to services of facilities of national significance. For example, it covers access to electricity grids or natural gas pipelines. The aim of this part of the act is to encourage competition in upstream or downstream markets.\n\nThis part of the Act allows services to be 'declared' and for parties to negotiate terms and conditions of access. The National Competition Council and the ACCC are both involved in registering agreement and assessing what is fair (to owners, to public, to users). As an alternative to declaring a service, it may be subject to undertakings registered with the ACCC.\n\nThe restrictive trade practices, or antitrust, provisions in the CCA are aimed at deterring practices by firms which are anti-competitive in that they restrict free competition. This part of the act is enforced by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC). The ACCC can litigate in the Federal Court of Australia, and seek pecuniary penalties of up to $10 million from corporations and $500,000 from individuals. Private actions for compensation may also be available.\n\nThese provisions prohibit:\n\nA priority of ACCC enforcement action in recent years has been cartels. The ACCC has in place an immunity policy, which grants immunity from prosecution to the first party in a cartel to provide information to the ACCC allowing it to prosecute. This policy recognizes the difficulty in gaining information/evidence about price-fixing behaviours.\n\nPart IVB allows the Australian government to prescribe Industry Codes, and breach of these codes is a breach of the Act. The ACCC administers ongoing compliance with these codes. There are currently three codes made under this part:\n\nA unique feature of the Competition and Consumer Act, which does not exist in similar legislation overseas, is that the ACCC may grant exemptions. The ACCC may grant immunity based on assessment of the public benefits and anti-competitive detriments of the conduct, through the 'notification' or 'authorisation' process. Such exemptions do not apply to resale price maintenance or misuse of market power. The ACCC maintains a public register of authorisations and notifications.\n\nIn 2006 the Act was amended to include a new Division 3 to Part VIIA providing a process for formal clearance and authorisation of mergers.\n\nPart VIIA enables the ACCC to examine the prices of selected goods and services in the Australian economy.\n\nThe ACCC's functions under this part are:\n\nAustralia is a free market economy; consequently, the Act does not establish the ACCC as a price-fixing body. An example of the use of this section is that, under a direction from the Minister, the ACCC monitors the price of petrol. However, the ACCC cannot set the price of petrol, which has led to complaints that the ACCC is a \"toothless watchdog\".\n\nPart IX allows the Australian Competition Tribunal, established in Part III of the Act, to review certain decisions of the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission.\n\nPart X provides immunities for liner shipping from the competition provisions of the Act contained in Part IV. Upon registration of agreements with the registrar of liner shipping, shipping operators may discuss and fix prices, pool revenues and losses, coordinate schedules and engange in other conduct that would otherwise breach Part IV provisions.\n\nThe Act also regulates aspects of the Telecommunications market. In Australia the previously government-owned Telstra, now privatised, has traditionally dominated the telecommunications sector. Telstra owns the copper network infrastructure.\n\nThe market was partially deregulated in 1992 with the introduction of Optus as a competitor. In 1997 deregulation continued when new entities were permitted to enter the market (see Communications in Australia). However, a feature of the Australian telecommunications market is that it is neither feasible nor efficient to have multiple networks, for example, of fibre-optic cables or of copper cables. For this reason, sections XIB and XIC of the Act exist to ensure that competitors (downstream users) have access to Telstra's networks.\n\nPart XIB of the Act allows the ACCC to issue a Competition Notice to a carrier (telecommunications corporation) if it has reason to believe the corporation has engaged in \"anti-competitive conduct\". \"Anti-competitive conduct\" refers to the restrictive trade practices in Part IV of the Act (Sections 45, 45B, 46, 47 or 48), or when a carrier with a substantial degree of power in a telecommunications market has taken advantage of the power with the effect, or likely effect, of substantially lessening competition.\n\nIf the conduct continues after the issue of the Competition Notice, the ACCC can seek an injunction and financial penalty through the Federal Court. Competition Notices also allow third parties to take legal action.\n\nPart XIC is a telecommunications-specific access regime. The object of Part XIC is to promote the long-term interests of end-users of telecommunications carriage services and services that facilitate the supply of such carriage services: s152AB. The extent to which something promotes the long-term interests of end-users is assessed by having regard to three, and only three, objectives, namely:\n\n\nUnder Part XIC, the ACCC can 'declare' particular telecommunications carriage services if it is in the long-term interests of end-users: s152AL. Suppliers of declared services must comply with standard access obligations: s152AR.\n\nPersons can obtain access to declared services on terms and conditions set either:\n\nThe Australian Consumer Law (ACL) is based on the proposition that low consumer power or lack of information is a market failure which needs to be addressed by interference in the market.\n\nThese parts deal with:\n\nMisleading or deceptive conduct (s 18 of the ACL, formerly s 52 of the TPA) is one of the most important consumer parts of the act. It allows both individuals and the ACCC to take action against corporations who engage in conduct that is misleading or deceptive, or likely to mislead or deceive.\n\nMisleading or deceptive conduct carried out by companies can also be prosecuted by the state (under Chapter 4 of the ACL).\n\nThe inclusion of unconscionable conduct in the Australian Consumer Law is a codification and extension of the equitable principle of 'unconscionability' which was later clarified as a cause-of-action. The High Court of Australia held that an act was unconscionable if a party to a transaction is under a 'special disability', the other party is or ought be aware of that disability, and that other party acts in a way that makes it unfair or unconscionable to accept the offer of the weaker party.\n\nSection 20 codifies the common law by referring to the \"unwritten law\" (i.e. the common law). However, the inclusion of section 20 allows for remedies under the Law.\n\nSection 21 bans unconscionability in consumer transactions. Section 22 gives factors that indicate unconscionability. This clarifies the application of unconscionability and circumstances where a consumer is at a \"special disability\".\n\nThe Australian Consumer Law also prohibits a range of other unfair practices including bait advertising (advertising a product that is not reasonably available), pyramid schemes (Division 3 of Part 3-1 of the ACL, formerly Division 1AAA of Part IV of the TPA), and certain misrepresentations (e.g. a misrepresentation as to price).\n\nThe Australian Consumer Law implies into contracts with consumers certain guarantees (these were formerly known as warranties). Similar conditions are implied by the State Sale of Goods Acts, but these acts have slightly different jurisdictional limits (e.g. 'consumer' and 'goods') and the legislative phrases may have been interpreted slightly differently.\n\nUnder the Trade Practices Act implied conditions and warranties are mandatory: they cannot be excluded by a contractual intent to the contrary. The implied conditions are as to title (s 53 of the ACL, formerly s 69 of the TPA), quiet possession, freedom from encumbrances, fitness for purpose (s 55 of the ACL, formerly s 71 of the TPA), supply by description or sample (s 56, s 57) and that the goods are of acceptable quality (s 54 of the ACL, formerly s 66 of the TPA, which used the term \"merchantable quality\"). As a caveat, where the consumer guarantees are not that of title, undisturbed possession or undisclosed securities, they only apply if the goods or services in question are supplied in trade or commerce.\n\nThe most important of these to a consumer is likely to be acceptable quality. If goods fail to reach a basic level of quality (considering the price of the goods) – that is they are defective, break, or do not do what they should do – then the ACL has been breached.\n\nThe Review of the Competition Provisions of the Trade Practices Act (Dawson Report) was released in January 2003 and received 212 submissions. The scope of the report was quite broad, with recommendations regarding mergers and acquisitions, exclusionary provisions, third line forcing, joint ventures, penalties and remedies, and the functions and powers of the ACCC. As a result, some amendments have been made to the Act.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18684758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18684758", "title": "Congregation Beth Israel West Side Jewish Center", "text": "Congregation Beth Israel West Side Jewish Center\n\nCongregation Beth Israel West Side Jewish Center is an Orthodox congregation located at 347 West 34th Street, Manhattan, New York, in the Garment District, near Penn Station. Established in 1890, it constructed its current building in 1924–1925. Rabbis have included Joseph Schick, Norman Lamm, and Solomon Kahane. , the rabbi was Jason Herman.\n\nCongregation Beth Israel West Side Jewish Center was established in 1890 by Orthodox German Jews and Jews from Austria-Hungary. In its early years the congregation worshiped at 252 West 35th Street, a building later purchased by St. Paul Baptist Church.\n\nIn 1905, the congregation constructed a new synagogue building at 252 West 35th Street, designed by architect John H. Knubel. Its sanctuary sat 600. In 1924, it broke ground for its current three-story building at 347 West 34th Street. Designed by Gronenberg & Leuchtag, it was completed in 1925.\n\nDr. Joseph Schick became rabbi in 1926. Born in Ónod in Austria-Hungary in 1892, he served as a chaplain in the Austro-Hungarian army during World War I, and was the rabbi of Budapest's Beth Israel synagogue of 1918 to 1922, then emigrated to the United States. His books \"The Kaddish: Its Power for Good\" and \"Joseph's Harvest\" were published in 1928 and 1932 respectively. He served until his death in 1938, at age 49.\n\nSchick was succeeded in 1939 by Harry M. Katzen and then William Novack, and then in 1940 by Leo Ginsburg.\n\nIn 1952, Norman Lamm, later president of Yeshiva University for over 25 years, was appointed to the role. He would serve until 1958, before moving to the (unrelated) Upper West Side Jewish Center. \n\nSolomon (Shlomo) Kahane, ordained in 1954 at Yeshiva University, was subsequently rabbi of the congregation for 38 years; he died in April, 2004. He was a first cousin of Rabbi Meir Kahane, the founder of the Jewish Defense League and the Israeli political party \"Kach\". The Jewish Defense League's first meeting was held at the West Side Jewish Center on June 18, 1968.\n\nKahane was succeeded by Dr. Richard Weiss. A licensed physician, Weiss subsequently became rabbi of Young Israel of Hillcrest in Queens.\n\nThe synagogue was in the news in 2007. The congregation rents the entire side of its building for advertisements, and that year it was covered with a huge billboard for the film \"\". The image did not offend any members, according to then-rabbi Jason Herman, and the congregation found the additional income generated by the billboard helpful for maintaining the building.\n\n, the rabbi was Jason Herman. A former investment banker, Herman received his rabbinic ordination at Yeshivat Chovevei Torah. He was also Executive Director of the International Rabbinic Fellowship and a fellow at Rabbis Without Borders. Known for his activism, he was one of 22 Jewish leaders arrested at the United Nations in 2007 after a protest demanding the removal of Iran from the body. In 2008, he was one of a group of liberal Orthodox rabbis who boycotted kosher meat from Agriprocessors over concerns that the company's practices were unethical.\n\n"}
{"id": "30619545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30619545", "title": "Douglas Flint", "text": "Douglas Flint\n\nSir Douglas Jardine Flint, CBE is a British banking businessman and former Group Chairman of HSBC Holdings. He served from 2010 to 2017, having previously been Group Finance Director since 1995.\n\nFlint graduated with a bachelor's degree with honours in Accounting from the University of Glasgow. He also completed the PMD course at Harvard Business School in 1983. Flint is a member of a number of professional bodies such as the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland, the British Association of Corporate Treasurers professional body and most recently, Institute of International Finance, where he now serves as Chairman of the Board. He is also a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.\n\nFlint started his career in Peat Marwick Mitchell & Co. (now KPMG), and was appointed a partner of the firm in 1988. He has an in depth knowledge of banking, treasury and securities trading operations, financial reporting of multinationals. He became Group Finance Director of HSBC in 1995. He was the Chairman of the Financial Reporting Council's review of the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control from 2004 to 2005 and was a member of The Accounting Standards Board and the Standards Advisory Council of the International Accounting Standards Committee Foundation from 2001 to 2004.\n\nIn June 2006, in recognition to his services to the finance industry, he was appointed a CBE (Commander of the Order of the British Empire).\n\nFlint became chairman of HSBC Holdings PLC, Europe's biggest bank, at the end of 2010. \n\n"}
{"id": "8684951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8684951", "title": "Downtown Paterson", "text": "Downtown Paterson\n\nDowntown Paterson is the main commercial district of Paterson, Passaic County, New Jersey, United States. The area is the oldest part of the city, along the banks of the Passaic River and its Great Falls. It is roughly bounded by Interstate 80, Garret Mountain Reservation, Route 19, Oliver Street, and Spruce Street on the south; the Passaic River, West Broadway, Cliff Street, North 3rd Street, Haledon Avenue, and the borough of Prospect Park on the west; and the Passaic River also to the north. \n\nAfter a devastating fire in 1902, the city rebuilt the downtown with massive Beaux-Arts-style buildings, many of which remain to this day. and are contributing properties to the Downtown Commercial Historic District. These buildings are usually four to seven stories tall. Downtown Paterson is home to City Hall and the Passaic County Court House, two of the city's architectural landmarks. City Hall was designed by the New York firm Carrere and Hastings in 1894 and is modeled after the Hôtel de Ville (city hall) in Lyon, France, capital of the silk industry in Europe. Downtown abounds with buildings designed by Fred Wesley Wentworth, some in collaboration with his draftsman and later partner Frederick J. Vreeland, who worked in the city from the turn of the century to the 1930s. The Cathedral of St. John the Baptist survived the fire. As the county seat Paterson is home to the Passaic County Court House complex, Passaic County Community College, and several federal and state offices. Center City Mall is a shopping mall at 301 Main Street opened in 2009, and is home to the acclaimed Hamilton & Ward Steakhouse. The massive Masjid Jalalabad mosque, which can accommodate 1,500 worshippers, is located on Van Houten Street. Paterson Broadway Bus Terminal is a major regional bus terminal. Downtown has a diverse ethnic makeup with large Dominican, Puerto Rican, Peruvian, and Mexican populations. Little Lima is the largest Peruvian American enclave in the United States.\n\nMany places that are on the National Register of Historic Places listings in Passaic County, New Jersey are located in Paterson, and several are located Downtown, including the Paterson Downtown Commercial Historic District, roughly bounded by Patterson, Ward and Gross streets, and Hamilton Avenue; Paterson City Hall at 155 Market Street (), added to the National Register of Historic Places on February 12, 1999; and Public School Number Two at Mill and Passaic streets. (). The Great Falls Historic District overlaps Downtown to the west.\n\nThe central business district of Paterson is the area closest to the Passaic River on the west side of the city. The areas along Market Street and Main Street are some of the busiest and largest commercial districts in Paterson. Downtown was once a shopping mecca for northern New Jersey. As with many other older urban cores in the United States, it suffered as shoppers and retailers moved to the suburban shopping malls of the region. For a large part, Downtown retailers are \"mom and pop\" retailers who employee local residents. In 1997, a special improvement district (SID) created by Merchants and Businesses of Downtown Paterson, comprising over 300 stakeholders, updated storefronts and beautified city streets with signage and lighting. Downtown SID employees supplement the municipal cleaning, informational, and safety services of the city by maintaining a \"Clean and Safe\" staff. The association participates in many city activities with sponsorships such as the Great Falls Festival and the annual 4th of July fireworks show, one of Northern New Jersey's largest. Additionally, the SID implements several events throughout the year in Downtown Paterson. Downtown Paterson was an Urban Enterprise Zone (UEZ), which means that participating stores sell merchandise at 3.5% sales tax, instead of the normal 7% sales tax. The UEZ also invested greatly in Downtown Paterson and the entire stretch of Main Street, with a beautification project. New street furniture such as benches, garbage cans, newspaper kiosks, bus shelters, clocks, bike racks have been installed.\n\nDublin, considered the first neighborhood of Paterson, was built up around the mills near Great Falls. The area, which is responsible for the early growth of Paterson, has a rich history and has had a diverse and changing ethnic makeup. Originally settled by Irish immigrants, the neighborhood has seen waves of English, Italians and more recently Hispanic immigrants. The Dublin area today incorporates parts of Old Great Falls Historic District and the area on Market Street, which has a large Peruvian and Argentine population today.\n\nWrigley Park is the northern section of downtown, north of Broadway and to the east of the Passaic River. Wrigley Park is a predominantly African-American community and is mostly residential. The area is considered to be one of the more dangerous sections of Paterson along with areas of the Northside, although the crime rate has declined gradually in recent years.\n\nNorthside is a mostly residential neighborhood on the north bank of the Passaic River. The neighborhood stretches back to Paterson's borders with Haledon and Prospect Park. The neighborhoods on this side of the river are up a steep hill that gives many of the houses and streets in the Northside great views of Manhattan.\n\nTrain service began with the Paterson and Hudson River Railroad in 1833. Erie Railroad ran service on its Newark Branch and Main Line.The Paterson rail station is located in Downtown. Paterson is served by New Jersey Transit on the Main Line and limited service on the Port Jervis Line.\n\nThe Broadway Bus Terminal is the point of origin for numerous New Jersey Transit Bus Operations' local and Manhattan-bound bus lines.\n\nInterstate 80 passes south of Downtown. New Jersey Route 19, known as the Paterson Peripheral, connects Interstate 80 and the Garden State Parkway to Downtown where it becomes Ward Street.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "183749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=183749", "title": "Duty", "text": "Duty\n\nA duty (from \"due\" meaning \"that which is owing\"; , past participle of \"devoir\"; , whence \"debt\") is a commitment or expectation to perform some action in general or if certain circumstances arise. A duty may arise from a system of ethics or morality, especially in an honor culture. Many duties are based created by law, sometimes including a codified punishment or liability for non-performance. Performing one's duty may require some sacrifice of self-interest.\n\nCicero, an early Roman philosopher who discusses duty in his work “On Duty\", suggests that duties can come from four different sources:\n\nThe specific duties imposed by law or culture vary considerably, depending on jurisdiction, religion, and social norms.\n\nDuty is also often perceived as something owed to one’s country (patriotism), or to one's homeland or community. Civic duties could include:\n\n\nSpecific obligations arise in the services performed by a minister of a church, by a soldier, or by any employee or servant.\n\nExamples:\n\nExamples of legal duties include:\n\nIn most cultures, children are expected to take on duties in relation to their families. This may take the form of behaving in such a way that upholds the family’s honor in the eyes of the community, entering into arranged marriages that benefit the family’s status, or caring for ailing relatives. This family-oriented sense of duty is a particularly central aspect to the teachings of Confucius, and is known as xiao, or filial piety. As such, the duties of filial piety have played an enormous role in the lives of people in eastern Asia for centuries. For example, the painting \"Lady Feng and the Bear\", from ancient China, depicts the heroic act of a consort of the emperor placing herself between her husband and a rampaging bear. This is meant to be taken as an example of admirable filial behavior. Filial piety is considered so important that in some cases, it outweighs other cardinal virtues: In a more modern example, \"concerns with filial piety of the same general sort that motivate women to engage in factory work in Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia, and elsewhere in Asia are commonly cited by Thai prostitutes as one of their primary rationales for working in the skin trade\". The importance of filial piety can be expressed in this quote from \"The Analects of Confucius\": \"Yu Tzu said, 'It is rare for a man whose character is such that he is good as a son and obedient as a young man to have the inclination to transgress against his superiors; it is unheard of for one who has no such inclination to be inclined to start a rebellion. The gentleman devotes his efforts to the roots, for once the roots are established, the Way will grow there from. Being good as a son and obedient as a young man is, perhaps, the root of a man's character'\".\n\nDuty varies between different cultures and continents. Duty in Asia and Latin America is commonly more heavily weighted than in Western culture. According to a study done on attitudes toward family obligation:\nThe deeply rooted tradition of duty among both Asian and Latin American cultures contributes to much of the strong sense of duty that exists in comparison to western cultures. Michael Peletz discusses the concept of duty in his book \"Gender, Sexuality, and Body Politics in Modern Asia\":\nAn arranged marriage is an example of an expected duty in Asia and the Middle East. In an arranged marriage relating to duty, it is expected that the wife will move in with the husband’s family and household to raise their children. Patrilocal residence is usual; rarely does the man move in with the woman, or is the married couple allowed to start their own household and life somewhere else. They need to provide for the entire family in labor and care for the farms and family. Older generations rely heavily on the help from their children's and grandchildren's families. This form of duty is in response to keeping the lineage of a family intact and obliging to the needs of elders.\n\nFriedrich Nietzsche is among the fiercest critics of the concept of duty. \"What destroys a man more quickly\", he asks, \"than to work, think, and feel without inner necessity, without any deep personal desire, without pleasure—as a mere automaton of “duty”?\" (\"The Antichrist\", § 11)\n\nNietzsche claims that the task of all higher education is \"to turn men into machines\". The way to turn men into machines is to teach them to tolerate boredom. This is accomplished, Nietzsche says, by means of the concept of duty. (\"Twilight of the Idols\", “Skirmishes of an untimely man” § 9.29)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5544757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5544757", "title": "Dylan's Candy Bar", "text": "Dylan's Candy Bar\n\nDylan's Candy Bar is a chain of boutique candy shops and candy supplier currently located in New York City; East Hampton, New York; Los Angeles, Chicago and Miami Beach, as well as in wholesale venues around the globe. It is owned by Dylan Lauren, daughter of fashion designer Ralph Lauren.\n\nLauren was inspired to create the store, which is asserted to be the \"largest unique candy store in the world\", by the Roald Dahl story of \"Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory\". Lauren said that her goal was to \"merge fashion, art and pop candy culture\". It stocks 7,000 candies from around the world. Dylan's Candy Bar has also partnered with Holt Renfrew in Vancouver, British Columbia in a co-branding effort. The flagship store has supposedly become something of a \"required stop\" for those visiting New York, and celebrities such as Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen, Katie Holmes and her daughter, Suri Cruise, Janet Jackson, and Madonna reportedly make a point to visit the store.\n\nThe New York City store, located on 60th Street and 3rd Avenue, is the flagship store. It has become a location for several television shows and movies based in New York.\n\nFounder Dylan Lauren was featured on the cover of the May 2011 \"Forbes\" magazine for inheriting her father's entrepreneurial genes. In October 2011 Dylan's Candy Bar celebrated its 10th anniversary.\n\nDylan’s Candy Bar was featured in \"Hitch\", a 2005 romantic comedy starring Will Smith, Eva Mendes, and Kevin James. In the opening scene when Hitch, played by Will Smith, explains basic principles on how to get the girl, one of the characters becomes attracted to a saleswoman at Dylan’s Candy Bar, but fails to grab her attention at the store.\n\nIn the movie \"Arthur\", Arthur (Russell Brand) gets a job at the store to prove to his mother he can be an adult on his own. After being hired by the manager (John Hodgman), he holds three positions; cashier, stock, and sales floor. He buys his way into a gummy bear costume from Scott Adsit’s character. This job ends in Arthur falling down the stairs and being fired from the short-lived job.\n\nSeason 2, Episode 15:, \"Gone with the Will\", Vanessa (Jessica Szohr) and Dan (Penn Badgley) shop for a thoughtful anniversary gift for Nate in Dylan’s Candy Bar while Dan tries revealing to Vanessa that his father and his girlfriend Serena’s (Blake Lively) mother may have a love child. They were rudely interrupted by preteen Gossip Girl followers trying to pin an affair on Dan and make for an escape out of the store.\nSeason 3, Episode 7: \"How to Succeed in Bassness\" Rufus Humphrey (Matthew Settle) is prepared for trick-or-treaters with his Dylan’s Candy Bar bag at his wife’s Lily (Kelly Rutherford) Upper East Side apartment.\n\nSeason 10, Episode 2:, \"Candy Couture\", Designers compete in an unconventional challenge where designs are constructed of only products purchased from Dylan's Candy Bar. Each designer was given $250 to purchase products, but all products were 50% off, allowing designers to purchase $500 worth of product from the store.\n\nSeason 2, Episode 2:, \"Candy, Crash and Crisis\", the New York candy store orders a cake adorned with its products.\n\nIt was also in its spinoff show, \"Next Great Baker\" where the season 4 contestants had to make a candy themed cake.\n\nSeason 7, Episode 2:, \"\", Dylan has Robert Irvine prepare a party for 250 guests in just 8 hours with candy from the store in every dish. In addition, she has him make a cake that utilizes candy from the store but is made out of Rice Krispies Treats.\n\n"}
{"id": "19576979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19576979", "title": "Earl Brian", "text": "Earl Brian\n\nEarl Winfrey Brian, Jr. (born 1942) is an American businessman who served as Director of California's Department of Health Care Services, and then as Secretary of California's Agency for Health and Welfare under Governor Ronald Reagan. Following an unsuccessful run for the U. S. Senate in 1974, Brian headed several technology based firms during the 1970s and 80s. In 1991 however, Infotechnology, the venture capital firm he headed, filed for bankruptcy. Brian was later charged with conspiring to cover up the firm's financial difficulties and sentenced to four years in prison.\n\nBrian graduated from medical school at Duke University and served in the Army Medical Corps in Vietnam. \n\nAfter leaving the service in 1970, he was appointed first as Director of California's Department of Health Care Services (DHCS), then Secretary of Health and Welfare. During his term as secretary, Brian succeeded in implementing a requirement for a $2 co-payment from Medi-Cal recipients for each doctor’s visit,\nbut failed in an attempt to curtail medical benefits available under Medi-Cal when the state lost a suit brought by the California Medical Association.\nIn 1974 Brian resigned his cabinet post and ran for the U.S. Senate seat held by Senator Alan Cranston (D–CA), but lost the Republican primary.\n\nBrian then turned to business and in 1980 established his own company, Biotech Capital, a venture capital firm that invested in companies developing medical technology. Biotech later shifted its focus to news and information services, acquiring interest in the Financial News Network (FNN) and changing the name Biotech in 1987 to Infotechnology.. In 1988, the company acquired United Press International, one of the two major American news wire services at the time.\n\nInfotechnology encountered financial difficulties and filed for bankruptcy in 1991, as did FNN and UPI. In 1995, Brian was charged with conspiracy and fraud for inflating the value of FNN and UPI in an attempt to secure loans to shore up the companies. He was convicted of the conspiracy charges in 1996 and sentenced to four years in prison.\n"}
{"id": "24231801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24231801", "title": "George Zochonis", "text": "George Zochonis\n\nGeorge Basil Zochonis (1852–1929) was a Greek businessman, who was the founder of PZ Cussons, one of the United Kingdom's largest personal health care and consumer goods manufacturing businesses.\n\nBrought up in Greece, George Zochnis initially joined the trading house of \"Fisher & Randall\" in Freetown in Sierra Leone. In 1879, together with George Paterson, he founded Paterson Zochonis and built it into a large trading house. It imported West African goods (palm products, nuts etc.) into the United Kingdom and then exported them to Europe. It also exported British goods (textiles etc.) to West Africa.\n\nHe died in 1929. After his death control of the business passed to Constantine Zochonis, his nephew, and then more recently, to John Zochonis (Constantine's son).\n"}
{"id": "38925836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38925836", "title": "Gülkız Ürbül", "text": "Gülkız Ürbül\n\nGülkız Ürbül (1901–1990) was a Turkish woman who became the first female muhtar (village chief) in Turkey in 1933. She later on changed her name to Gül Esin Aydın.\n\nUp to 1930, women had no political rights in Turkey. Beginning in 1930, they gained suffrage in local elections by Act no. 1580, dated 3 April 1930. Three years later, by Act no. 2349, dated 26 October 1933, the eligibility for the post of muhtar was also included in suffrage.\n\nTwo weeks later, Ürbül was elected the muhtar in Demircidere village of the Çine district in Aydın Province, marking the first time a woman was elected a political office in Turkey. (The village of Demircidere was later declared a district named Karpuzlu.)\n\nIn the 1930s, Gülkız Ürbül was one of the few literate village women in Turkey. During the First World War and Turkish War of Independence, she had lost her husband and five of her six brothers. In the election campaign, she ran against seven male candidates and won the muhtar election. During her short term, she initiated the construction of a road between her village and Çine and founded a cooperative to build a village room. She also banned gambling.\n\nAfter the election, Mehmet Ali Bey, the governor of Çine, said that the district was proud to be the pioneer in having the first female muhtar in Turkey. Recep Peker, the secretary-general of the Republican People's Party (and later prime minister from 1946 to 1947), sent a telegram and congratulated Ürbül on becoming the first Turkish female muhtar and political officeholder.\n\nÜrbül spent the last 20 years of her life in the Nazilli district of Aydın Province, where she died on the 18 December, 1990. In 2011, the municipality of Aydın erected a bust of Gülkız.\n\n"}
{"id": "1537122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1537122", "title": "Hold-up problem", "text": "Hold-up problem\n\nIn economics, the hold-up problem (or commitment problem) is central to the theory of incomplete contracts and shows the difficulty in writing complete contracts. A hold-up problem arises when two factors are present:\nThe hold-up problem is a situation where two parties may be able to work most efficiently by cooperating but refrain from doing so because of concerns that they may give the other party increased bargaining power, and thereby reduce their own profits. When party A has made a prior commitment to a relationship with party B, the latter can 'hold up' the former for the value of that commitment. The hold-up problem leads to severe economic cost and might also lead to underinvestment.\n\nIt is often argued that the possibility of a hold-up can lead to underinvestment in relation-specific investment and thus inefficiency. Underinvestment occurs because investors cannot guarantee themselves a sufficient share of the return through ex post bargaining. Consequently, predictions of the outcome are very sensitive to assumptions made about the bargaining process. The bargaining process can be seen as a game with multiple equilibria. Underinvestment may occur only when the agent fails to coordinate on an efficient equilibrium.\n\nIn a scenario where two risk-neutral parties S (supplier) and B (Buyer) can make profit by working together, it is efficient to work together as long as the buyers' valuation exceeds the sellers' costs (Schmitz, 2001). When the two parties could agree on a binding contract covering the whole period of the investment and anticipating all possible outcomes and providing protection for both parties in every situation that may arise at the time the investment is made, the parties would have enough confidence to make the investment, and both parties could enjoy high profits. Then, it can be assumed that there are no wealth constraints and there is no private information. According to the Coase theorem, voluntary bargaining results in trade whenever it is efficient. However, making such a contract is not often possible for these four reasons:\n\nThe initial contract can cover only short-term situations; eventually, renegotiation is needed, which provides an opportunity for e.g. S to hold up B. As S knows that the investment is a significant cost to B and tries to use this as leverage to negotiate an increase in its prices. In that case, S has more bargaining power, compared to B, and tries to use it to its own advantage. The source of power lies in the investment of B. For B it is hard to find out whether or not the raise in prices is reasonable. In an extreme case, S could demand 100 percent of the profits if the only alternative to B is to lose the entire initial investment. Even if the outcome would be Pareto efficient, B might not accept the agreement. If the renegotiations turn out to be unsuccessful both parties are worse off: B has made an investment that goes to waste, and S lost a customer.\n\nInefficiency is caused by the hold-up problem when B is reluctant to make the investment ex ante from the fear that S uses its extra bargaining power to its own advantage. In that case the supplier is 'holding up' the buyer.\n\nA historic example concerns the US car industry, but the example is sharply disputed by Coase (2000). Fisher Body had an exclusive contract with General Motors (GM) to supply car body parts and so Fisher Body was the only company to deliver the components according to GM's specifications. In 1920, a sharp increase in demand occurred that was above expectations. It is claimed that Fisher Body used the unforeseen situation to hold up GM by increasing the price for the additional parts produced. It has been said that the hold up led to GM acquiring Fisher Body in 1926.\n\nDuring transition out of South African apartheid, many white elites feared that democratization would result in tyranny of the majority. Now that fair elections were held, many wealthy whites feared that the longtime poor blacks (or their elected representatives) would expropriate wealth from the white minority. For this reason there was white resistance against democratic and fair elections. To ensure a peaceful transition (and to uphold the credibility of the elections), the African National Congress needed to make a commitment to protect the incomes and wealth of the white elites. This commitment allowed whites to respect the results of a democratic election which would put the majority blacks in power. That credible commitment from the ANC made the new democractic regime sufficiently attractive to whites in South Africa, otherwise they would not have agreed to transition out of autocracy.\n\nRogerson (1992) showed the existence of a first-best contractual solution to the hold-up problem in even extremely complex environments involving x agents with arbitrarily complex transaction decisions and utility functions. He shows that three important environmental assumptions must be made:\nFurthermore, the solution also requires 'powerful' contracts to be written.\nAccording to Rogerson (1992) the hold-up problem does not necessarily create inefficiencies; when it does, one of the above requirements is not satisfied. The requirements are necessary to come to an absolutely best solution.\n\nIf there are direct externalities and renegotiation cannot be prevented, even under symmetric information, underinvestment cannot be avoided. If there are direct externalities, the seller's investment is a hidden action and the buyer has private information about its valuation, the absolutely best solution may not be attained even when the parties have full commitment power. In the absence of direct externalities, simple contracts may solve the hold-up problem even when each party has private information about its valuation. Maskin and Tirole (1999) argue that complex contracts can solve the hold-up problem when there are ex ante indescribable contingencies, and Hart and Moore (1999) argue that the solution does not work when renegotiation cannot be ruled out. Taken together, whether or not suitable contracts can solve the hold-up problem is disputed in contract theory. In an experimental study, Hoppe and Schmitz (2011) found that option contracts may alleviate the hold-up problem even when renegotiation is possible, which may be explained by Hart and Moore's (2008) idea that contracts may serve as reference points.\n\nResearch of Nöldeke and Schmidt (1995) argued that the underinvestment problem due to the hold-up problem is eliminated if parties are able to write a simple option contract. Such a contract gives the seller the right but not the obligation to deliver a fixed quantity of the good and also makes the contractual payment of the buyer dependent on the delivery decision of the seller. Thus, this contract does not depend on renegotiation or complicated mechanisms, but its crucial feature is that one of the parties can unilaterally decide whether the trade takes place. However, such a contract is unachievable unless it is possible to enforce the payments conditional on the delivery decision of the seller. That means that the court must be able to verify delivery of the good to the buyer by the seller. The possibility was ruled out in earlier research where it was assumed that when trade fails, it is not possible for the court to distinguish whether the buyer did not accept the delivery or the seller refused to supply.\n\nThe organization and governance structure of a firm might be seen as a mechanism for dealing with a hold-up problem. A solution to the hold-up problem is vertical integration such as a merger in which all parts of the body being produced internally rather than outside. Vertical integration shifts the ownership of the organizational asset of the firm and therewith creates more flexibility and avoids potential of a hold-up. In that way, the (transaction) costs associated with contractually induced hold-ups are saved and also the costs associated with the number of contracts written and executed. Hold-up problems are created from the existence of firm-specific investments.but also from the set of long-term contracts that are used in the presence of the certain investments. Whether a vertical integration is adopted as a solution to the hold-up problem depends on the magnitude of the specific investment and the ability to write long-term contracts, flexible enough to avoid a potential hold-up. However, the ability to write flexible long-term contracts strongly depends upon the underlying market uncertainty and the reputation of the company. Therefore, those factors will also influence the likelihood of vertical integration. The extent to which vertical integration can alleviate the hold-up problem also depends on the information structure. While traditional incomplete contracting models of vertical integration such as Grossman and Hart (1986) assume symmetric information, Schmitz (2006) has extended the incomplete contracting framework to allow for asymmetric information.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "536807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536807", "title": "Indenture", "text": "Indenture\n\nAn indenture is a legal contract that reflects or covers a debt or purchase obligation. It specifically refers to two types of practices: in historical usage, an indentured servant status, and in modern usage, it is an instrument used for commercial debt or real estate transaction.\n\nAn indenture is a legal contract between two parties, particularly for indentured labour or a term of apprenticeship but also for certain land transactions. The term comes from the medieval English \"indenture of retainer\" — a legal contract written in duplicate on the same sheet, with the copies separated by cutting along a jagged (toothed, hence the term \"in\"dent\"ure\") line so that the teeth of the two parts could later be refitted to confirm authenticity (Chirograph). Each party to the deed would then retain a part. When the agreement was made before a court of law a \"tripartite\" indenture was made, with the third piece kept at the court. The term is used for any kind of deed executed by more than one party, in contrast to a deed poll which is made by one individual. In the case of bonds, the indenture shows the pledge, promises, representations and covenants of the issuing party.\n\nAlthough other evidence indicates that the method has been in use from around the year 1000, the earliest surviving examples in England are from the thirteenth century. These are agreements for military service, proving that a paid, contract army was then in existence. Exchequer records of Henry V's French campaign of 1415 (the Agincourt campaign), including the indentures of all the captains of the army agreeing to provide specified numbers of men and at what cost, may still be read. An indenture was commonly used as a form of sealed contract or agreement for land and buildings. An example of such a use can be found in the National Archives, where an indenture, from about 1401, recording the transfer of the manor of Pinley, Warwickshire, is held. \n\nIn the early history of the United States, many European immigrants served a period of indentured labour in order to pay the cost of their transportation. This practice was common during the 17th and 18th centuries, where over half of immigrants worked off an average of three years' servitude.\n\nBond indenture (also trust indenture or deed of trust) is a legal document issued to lenders and describes key terms such as the interest rate, maturity date, convertibility, pledge, promises, representations, covenants, and other terms of the bond offering. When the offering memorandum is prepared in advance of marketing a bond, the indenture will typically be summarised in the \"description of notes\" section.\n\nIn the United States, public debt offerings in excess of $10 million require the use of an indenture of trust under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939. The rationale for this is that it is necessary to establish a collective action mechanism under which creditors can collect in a fair, orderly manner if default takes place (like that which occurs during bankruptcy). No trust relationship exists between the bondholder and the issuing corporation. These two are in a regular contractual, arm's length, non-fiduciary, non-equity relationship. Rather, the trustee in a \"trust indenture\" is a third party, usually a specialist company, who is appointed by the issuer to handle and safeguard the interests of the numerous public bondholders, in events ranging from the usual distribution of coupons and principal payments to dealing with the issuer's default, if any occurs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17379207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17379207", "title": "Innovation economics", "text": "Innovation economics\n\nInnovation economics is a growing economic theory that emphasizes entrepreneurship and innovation. Ir is based on two fundamental tenets -- the central goal of economic policy should be to spur higher productivity through greater innovation, and that markets relying on input resources and price signals alone will not always be as effective in spurring higher productivity and economic growth.\n\nThis is in contrast to the two other conventional economic doctrines, neoclassical economics and Keynesian economics.\n\nJoseph Schumpeter was one of the first and most important scholars who extensively tackled the question of innovation in Economics. In contrast to his contemporary John Maynard Keynes, Schumpeter contended that evolving institutions, entrepreneurs, and technological change were at the heart of economic growth, not independent forces that are largely unaffected by policy. He argued that \"capitalism can only be understood as an evolutionary process of continuous innovation and 'creative destruction'\".\n\nBut it is only within the last 15 years that a theory and narrative of economic growth focused on innovation that was grounded in Schumpeter’s ideas has emerged. Innovation economics attempted to answer the fundamental problem in the puzzle of total factor productivity growth. Continual growth of output could no longer be explained only in increase of inputs used in the production process as understood in industrialization. Hence, innovation economics focused on a theory of economic creativity that would impact the theory of the firm and organization decision-making. Hovering between heterodox economics that emphasized the fragility of conventional assumptions and orthodox economics that ignored the fragility of such assumptions, innovation economics aims for joint didactics between the two. As such, it enlarges the Schumpeterian analyses of new technological system by incorporating new ideas of information and communication technology in the global economy.\n\nInnovation economics emerges on the wage of other schools of thoughts in economics, including new institutional economics, new growth theory, endogenous growth theory, evolutionary economics, neo-Schumpeterian economics—provides an economic framework that explains and helps support growth in today’s knowledge economy.\n\nLeading theorists of innovation economics include both formal economists, as well as management theorists, technology policy experts, and others. These include Paul Romer, Elhanan Helpman, Bronwyn Hall, W. Brian Arthur, Robert Axtell, Richard R. Nelson, Richard Lipsey, Michael Porter, Keun Lee, Christopher Freeman.\n\nInnovation economists believe that what primarily drives economic growth in today’s knowledge-based economy is not capital accumulation, as claimed by neoclassicalism asserts, but innovative capacity spurred by appropriable knowledge and technological externalities. \nEconomic growth in innovation economics is the end-product of:\n\nIn 1970, economist Milton Friedman said in the \"New York Times\" that a business’s sole purpose is to generate profits for their shareholders and companies that pursued other missions would be less competitive, resulting in fewer benefits to owners, employees, and society. Yet data over the past several decades shows that while profits matter, good firms supply far more, particularly in bringing innovation to the market. This fosters economic growth, employment gains, and other society-wide benefits. Business school professor David Ahlstrom asserts: “the main goal of business is to develop new and innovative goods and services that generate economic growth while delivering benefits to society.”\n\nIn contrast to neoclassical economics, innovation economics offer differing perspectives on main focus, reasons for economic growth, and the assumptions of context between economic actors:\nDespite the differences in economic thought, both perspectives are based on the same core premise: the foundation of all economic growth is the optimization of the utilization of factors and the measure of success is how well the factor utilization is optimized. Whatever the factors, it nonetheless leads to the same situation of special endowments, varying relative prices, and production processes. So, while the two differ in theoretical concepts, innovation economics can find fertile ground in mainstream economics, rather than remain in diametric contention.\n\nEmpirical evidence worldwide points to a positive link between technological innovation and economic performance. The drive of biotech firms in Germany was due to the R&D subsidies to joint projects, network partners, and close cognitive distance of collaborative partners within a cluster. For instance:\n\nConcisely, evidence shows that innovation contributes to steady economic growth and rise in per capita income.\n\nHowever, some empirical studies investigating the innovation-performance-link lead to rather mixed results and indicate that the relationship is more subtle and complex than commonly assumed. In particular, the relationship between innovativeness and performance seems to differ in intensity and significance across empirical contexts, environmental circumstances, and conceptual dimensions.\n\nAll of the above has taken place in an era of data constraint, as identified by Zvi Griliches in the 1990s. Because the primary domain of innovation is commerce the key data resides there; continually out of campus reach in reports hidden within factories, corporate offices and technical centers. This recusal still stymies progress today. Recent attempts at data transference have led, not least, to the ‘positive link’ (above) being upgraded to exact algebra between R&D productivity and GDP allowing prediction from one to the other. This is pending further disclosure from commercial sources but several pertinent documents are already available.\n\nWhile innovation is important, it is not a happenstance occurrence as a natural harbor or natural resources are, but a deliberate, concerted effort of markets, institutions, policymakers, and effective use of geographic space. In global economic restructuring, location has become a key element in establishing competitive advantage as regions focus on their unique assets to spur innovation (i.e., information technology in Silicon Valley, CA; digital media in Seoul, South Korea). Even more, thriving metropolitan economies that carry multiple clusters (i.e., Tokyo, Chicago, London) essentially fuel national economies through their pools of human capital, innovation, quality places, and infrastructure. Cities become “innovative spaces” and “cradles of creativity” as drivers of innovation. They become essential to the system of innovation through the supply side: ready, available, abundant capital and labor; good infrastructure for productive activities, and diversified production structures that spawn synergies and hence innovation. In addition they grow due to the demand side: diverse population of varying occupations, ideas, skills; high and differentiated level of consumer demand; and constant recreation of urban order especially infrastructure of streets, water systems, energy, and transportation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25960822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25960822", "title": "Lee Family Digital Archive", "text": "Lee Family Digital Archive\n\nThe Lee Family Digital Archive is a scholarly effort to collect, edit, and disseminate the papers of the Lee family of Virginia. The Lees of Virginia included Richard Lee I, the immigrant founder of the family, who came to Virginia from England around 1640, and his descendants. Some of the most famous Lees are Thomas Lee, the President of Virginia; Richard Henry Lee and Francis Lightfoot Lee, signers of the Declaration of Independence; Arthur Lee, the Penman of the Revolution; Light-Horse Harry Lee, the cavalry hero of the Continental army, three-time governor of Virginia, and the father of Robert E. Lee; Thomas Sim Lee, Revolutionary governor of Maryland; Richard Bland Lee, U.S. Senator; Charles Lee, U.S. Supreme Court justice; Richard Bland Lee II, a noted explorer; Robert E. Lee, the Confederate general who is by far the most famous of the family; William Henry Fitzhugh (Rooney) Lee, the son of Robert E. Lee and a U.S. Congressman from Virginia; and Fitzhugh Lee, Governor of Virginia and Civil War cavalry general. President Zachary Taylor was a Lee descendant, on his mother's side.\n\nA comprehensive search for Lee Family papers, which are widely scattered, is ongoing.\n\nSince October 2014, the Lee Family Digital Archive has been hosted by Stratford Hall, which was built by Thomas Lee and where Robert E. Lee was born. Dr. Colin Woodward, a historian of the Civil War era and the U.S. South, is the Editor of the Lee Family Digital Archive. Previously, the archive was hosted by Washington and Lee University in Lexington, Virginia, and directed by Frank E. Grizzard, Jr., a historian, author, and editor. The LFDA also contains the full text of many relevant secondary sources to the Lees and a section on George Washington.\n\n"}
{"id": "56586761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56586761", "title": "Leïla Mezian Benjelloun", "text": "Leïla Mezian Benjelloun\n\nLeïla Mezian Benjelloun is a Moroccan physician and businesswoman, and the wife of billionaire Othman Benjelloun.\n\nShe is the daughter of Moroccan general Mohamed Meziane. She was born in Valencia, and grew up in Spain. She is a graduate of the University of Madrid's medical school.\n\nShe is president of the BMCE Bank Foundation.\n\nIn October 2017, she laid the foundation stone of the new 1200 m² Museum of Arts and Traditions of Morocco (MATM) that she is building at the junction of Moulay Youssef Boulevard and Roudani Boulevard in Casablanca. The building will be 26 meters high and is budgeted to cost MAD 79 million. The architect is Tarik Oualalou. Completion is expected in 2018.\n\nShe is president of the Alaouite Organization for the Protection of the Blind and the Moroccan Red Cross, vice president of the Association of Medical Doctors in Morocco, and president of the Benjelloun-Mezian Foundation.\n\nShe is married to Othman Benjelloun since 1960, and they have two children, Dounia, a film producer, and Kamal, an anthropologist and environmentalist.\n"}
{"id": "16931178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16931178", "title": "Managerial risk accounting", "text": "Managerial risk accounting\n\nManagerial Risk Accounting is concerned with the generation, dissemination and use of risk related accounting information to managers within organisations to enable them to judge and shape the risk situation of the organisation according to the objectives of the organisation.\n\nAs a part of the management accounting system and function, managerial risk accounting has the following two main purposes:\n\n\nThese purposes are achieved by providing respectively relevant information to improve the ability and willingness of the employees to achieve the organisations’s goals and objectives. For the purpose of decision facilitation, decision makers should be provided with an accounting representation of the state-act-outcome set of the decision. Especially, it is necessary to provide statements concerning the likelihood or probability of states and outcomes. For the purpose of stewardship, it is necessary to provide information on the risks taken and their relation to the risk bearing capability of organisation as well as their relationship to the return generated.\n\nExisting accounting systems are primarily \"monovalent\". That is, a single accounting value is attributed to a specific object or purpose. In contrast, risk and uncertainty are formally characterised by a whole range of possible values connected to an object.\n\n\nSpecial risk accounting techniques do exist but are in practice mostly restricted to financial instruments as accounting objects and financial institutions as accounting subjects. They include:\n\n\nIn summary, it can be concluded that the representation of risk and uncertainty in accounting systems is limited in scope and technique as well as dispersed over different systems. As of now, no specialised comprehensive accounting system for the purpose of representing risk organisation wide in comparable terms has evolved. Such a system should allow for the representation of risk in accounting terms connected to the goals of the organisation such as liquidity and profitability on different organisational levels such as the organisation as a whole, business units and projects. Central to this is the configuration of adequate risk measures to capture the risk situation and measures for the capability of the organisation to bear risks (e. g. risk capital). These measures should also take into account behavioural and cognitive aspects of judgement and decision making under risk and uncertainty.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13630741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13630741", "title": "Massimo Cellino", "text": "Massimo Cellino\n\nMassimo Cellino (; born 28 July 1956) is an Italian entrepreneur and football club owner. Through his family trust Eleonora Sport Ltd he was the owner and chairman of the English club Leeds United. He currently owns Brescia Calcio.\n\nCellino was the chairman of the Italian association football club Cagliari Calcio. He has served as vice-president for Serie A in the Lega Calcio.\n\nDuring his years as owner of Cagliari Calcio, Cellino was instrumental in the building of their sports centre in Assemini, near Cagliari, named after his father Ercole.\n\nDiego López was sacked by Cellino as Cagliari manager on 6 April 2014, this being the 36th manager change he went through in 22 years of his tenure at Cagliari Calcio. Cellino earned the nickname \"Il mangia-allenatori\", \"The Manager Eater\".\n\nCellino intended to sell Cagliari Calcio, and has said that an agreed sale failed due to the wish of the prospective buyers for him to stay and run the club. He finally sold the club to the Italian entrepreneur Tommaso Giulini on June 2014 after 22 years of ownership.\n\nIn January 2014, speculation grew that Leeds would be subject to takeover by Cellino. A delegation representing Cellino was seen at Elland Road, Leeds' stadium, and the Thorp Arch training ground several times, and on 28 January it was reported that Cellino had asked for his associate and former Middlesbrough defender Gianluca Festa to sit in the dugout for Leeds' 1–1 draw with Ipswich. Cellino had previously tried to buy West Ham United in 2010.\n\nOn 31 January it was reported that Brian McDermott had been sacked as manager of the club, with Gianluca Festa speculated in the media as his most likely replacement. The following day reports emerged suggesting Gulf Finance House (GFH) club directors were attempting to reinstate McDermott as manager, saying the Cellino family (the club's prospective new owners) had no authority to dismiss him. On 1 February, McDermott's Elland Road assistant Nigel Gibbs was named as caretaker manager for the club's home derby against Huddersfield Town. Following the game, the club released an official statement stating McDermott had not been dismissed and remained first team manager.\n\nAfter weeks of speculation the club announced, on 7 February 2014, that they had exchanged contracts with Cellino's family consortium Eleonora Sport Ltd. The deal would see the Cellino family acquire 75% ownership of the club, subject to approval from the Football League. The Football League rejected the proposal on 24 March 2014, stating that Cellino failed the owner's test.\n\nCellino exercised his right to appeal the Football Leagues's decision. His appeal was heard on 31 March 2014 by an independent QC and, on 5 April 2014, the decision was overturned as Cellino's recent conviction did not involve conduct that would 'reasonably be considered to be dishonest' based on information available to him at the time. GFH retained a 10 per cent stake in the club, with minority shareholders holding 25 per cent.\n\nCellino later said that had he known that the takeover would not proceed smoothly he would not have bought the club and described the Football League as \"...really tricky, they made trouble at a time when I couldn't walk away and I submitted myself to a trial, a humiliation...I don't want to be here if the Football League don’t want me but who are they anyway?...They are acting for what's right, the principles, the ideals. Me, I sort out the f*cking problems at Leeds. I prefer to play by the rules, not to cheat.\" Cellino has been disparaging of GFH's management of Leeds, saying that \"...You can see what’s been happening here – it's been done by people who knew they weren't staying. And now I have to clean up the sh*t...GFH made big mistakes but not on purpose. That's why I don’t go against them for the moment. But the men who were here in GFH's name did a really, really bad job. That's not GFH fault. They trust people they shouldn't.\" Cellino described the fans of Leeds as \"...tired of eating sh*t and shutting their mouths. They accept me with enthusiasm and that gives me a lot of responsibility. I'm the richest man in the world with these fans and I can challenge anyone, everyone.\"\n\nCellino later questioned manager Brian McDermott's decision to take a holiday, proclaiming that Leeds \"have no manager\", and asked \"Who's managing this club?' Brian, where's Brian?\". It was also revealed that the retain and release list of players would be handled by Cellino and Benito Carbone and not McDermott. Leeds later confirmed Carbone's position at the club in a statement, confirming that he would 'be involved with all football matters, including both the first team and the academy'.\n\nOn 30 May, Leeds reached a mutual agreement with manager Brian McDermott to end his spell at the club. With Cellino wanting to hire a head coach rather than a manager. On 16 June, McDermott was succeeded as Leeds manager by Dave Hockaday who took up the role in a head coach capacity. On 11 July 2014, Leeds under-18s manager Richard Naylor was made redundant as was Leeds under-16s coach Leigh Bromby. On 3 August 2014, after joining the club in April 2014 sporting consultant Benito Carbone left his job after his relationship with Cellino deteriorated.\n\nAfter a 4–1 defeat to Watford on 23 August, Cellino had made up his mind to sack head coach Hockaday; however he had a change of heart, deciding to blame himself for the club's poor start to the season. Five days later, he changed his mind again and sacked Hockaday. Assistant Junior Lewis was sacked at the same time, with the duo having been at the club for only 70 days.\n\nCellino aimed to repurchase Leeds' Elland Road stadium in 2014, and expects the club to be in the Premier League, the top tier of English football, by the end of the 2015–16 season. In September 2014, Cellino appointed Darko Milanič as the new head coach of Leeds on a two-year deal replacing Hockaday, though Milanič was dismissed 32 days later after not winning one of his six games while in charge. In November 2014 Neil Redfearn was confirmed as the new head coach of Leeds, on an initial 12-month contract with the option of a further 12 months, the contract also had a clause that would see Redfearn return to the academy if he was to leave his role as head coach.\n\nOn 1 December 2014, Cellino was disqualified by the Football League and asked to resign from the club. The Football League took the decision after obtaining documents from an Italian court, where he was found guilty of tax evasion. On 19 January 2015, Cellino's appeal against the Football League's disqualification was rejected, with the appeal committee ruling that his ban would stand.\n\nHowever, Cellino, and the club, were facing another charge which related to the length of time it took Cellino to present The Football League with the court documents in the first place. This was settled in March 2015, and resulted in Cellino having his ban extended until 8 May 2015, the day after the 2014–15 season ended, to which Cellino responded by saying that he would return to his president role at the club once the ban expired.\n\nOn the 2nd April, During Cellino's ban away from the club, Cellino's sporting director Nicola Salerno mysteriously suspended Steve Thompson, Leeds assistant manager who was credited with lifting Leeds from a place above relegation to 10th in the Football Championship. Leeds had won 6 out of the previous 10 matches. On 9 April 2015, Leeds United's suspended owner, Cellino, informed the press that he believed Salerno had resigned.\n\nCellino, with the approval of the Football League returned to the club, rejoining the board as club chairman and president on 2 May 2015.\n\nOn 14 May 2015, Cellino carried out a press conference unveiling Adam Pearson as the club's Executive Director to work directly alongside Cellino. The press conference included Cellino leaving halfway through for a cigarette break only to return, and for the press conference to run for over an hour, with Cellino refusing to reveal the future of Head Coach Neil Redfearn. Cellino revealed that he would also sell the club if he felt he was not ready to take the club to the premier league by 2016/17 season.\n\nHowever, on 16 May, with speculation mounting further about Neil Redfearn's future as Leeds United Head Coach, Cellino in an interview with The Mirror proclaimed Redfearn to be 'weak' and 'a baby'.\n\nOn 20 May 2015, Uwe Rösler was appointed as the Head Coach of Championship side Leeds United on a two-year deal.\n\nOn 24 June 2015, it was announced that after Cellino's long time friend Nicola Salerno had helped the club sign Sol Bamba from Palermo that Salerno and the club had agreed a mutual termination of Salerno's contract, with the club stating \"Leeds United would like to thank Nicola for his efforts over the past year and he will always be welcomed back to Elland Road in the future\".\n\nOn 22 September 2015, Cellino criticized Leeds player Sam Byram, Cellino revealed he was 'deeply offended' and 'hurt' that Byram had not signed a new contract at Leeds United. Yorkshire Evening Post reported that the contract offer from Cellino to Byram was actually a reduction on his existing wage.\n\nOn 16 October, Cellino advised as a protest to The Football League, about kick off changes for televised games that he would limit Leeds away fan ticket allocated to the bare minimum football league requirement of 2k. The decision was met with anger from Leeds United fans, who advised the reduced allocation was not the way forward for the clubs fans. On 20 October, Cellino performed a u-turn on his decision to limit Leeds fans ticket allocation at away games, after heavy criticism from the clubs fans.\n\nOn 19 October, Uwe Rösler was sacked after two wins from just 12 games in charge, following a 2–1 home defeat to Brighton & Hove Albion which left Leeds in 18th place in the Championship. On the same day, he was replaced him as Leeds Head Coach with former Rotherham Manager Steve Evans.\n\nAlso on the 19 October, it was announced by the Football League that Cellino had been disqualified as Leeds United owner for a year, the second time he has been banned by the football League, for an issue regarding Italian Tax Legislation thus failing the Football League's Owners & Directors Test.\n\nOn 30 October, Cellino revealed he would sell Leeds United to Leeds United Fans Group 'Leeds Fans United', announcing \"100% I will sell to the fans, if they want to buy it and look after the club. The fans are the only asset the club has.\"\n\nOn 2 November, Cellino revealed that he would no longer attend Leeds United matches due to vocal criticism after he attended the clubs 2-0 loss against Blackburn Rovers.\n\nOn 4 November, Cellino announced a dramatic u-turn of his decision to sell the club to Leeds Fans United, and accused the potential buyers of 'fairytales'. With LFU announcing a statement \"Leeds Fans Utd has just been informed by the lawyers of Massimo Cellino that he no longer wishes to sell to Leeds fans.\"\n\nOn 13 November, The Football League announced that Cellino's disqualification ban had been deferred due to Cellino appealing the ban, they announced that should Cellino's appeal fail after the hearing, that the deferral would not change the length of the ban.\n\nOn 29 December, Cellino banned Sky Sports cameras from entering Elland Road to live broadcast Leeds' game against Derby. However, due to possible sanctions the club could face, the broadcasting team were 'reluctantly' allowed in.\n\nWith speculation if Evans would be retained as head coach for the 2016–17 season, on 18 April 2016, Cellino's interview with the \"Daily Telegraph\" cast doubt of head coach Steve Evans long term prospects, Cellino advised he felt Evans 'talks too much' and that Evans had to learn to 'shut his mouth'.\n\nOn 9 May 2016, Cellino was acquitted 'on appeal' for his tax evasion conviction, after failing to pay VAT on a Range Rover imported from the USA into Italy.\n\nDespite being acquitted of tax evasion and the resulting removal of the Football League disqualification, on 13 May 2016, Cellino revealed in an exclusive interview with \"The Times\" that he had regretted buying the club, and that he would now sell the club if he received the right offer.\n\nOn 23 May 2016, it was revealed that MK Dons manager Karl Robinson had turned down the opportunity from Cellino to become Leeds United head coach, further casting doubt on current head coach Steve Evans' future at the club. On 27 May, after being turned down by Robinson, Cellino then approached Bristol Rovers manager Darrell Clarke to replace Evans, however he was again rebuffed with Clarke preferring to sign a new deal at Bristol.\n\nOn 31 May 2016, Steve Evans and his assistant Paul Raynor were both sacked by Cellino, becoming the sixth manager to be sacked by Cellino in two years. On Evans' sacking Cellino revealed in a club statement that he felt the club 'needed a different approach in order to achieve targets for the new season'.\n\nIn June 2016, ex-Leeds United-women's forward and former Education & Welfare officer Lucy Ward won a high-profile legal battle against her dismissal from the club in 2015.\n\nOn 2 June 2016, Garry Monk was appointed the new head coach of Leeds United on a one-year rolling contract, replacing Evans.\n\nOn 8 September 2016, Cellino's Eleonora Sport Ltd became Leeds United's 100% share owners, after buying the 15% shares of minority owner Gulf Finance House (GFH Capital), thus becoming Leeds United's sole majority shareholder.\n\nOn 4 January 2017, Andrea Radrizzani purchased a 50 percent stake from Cellino for Leeds United.\n\nOn 23 May 2017, Andrea Radrizzani announced the 100% buyout of Leeds United, buying the remaining 50% shares from previous co-owner Massimo Cellino, with Radrizzani taking full ownership of the club. Cellino issued a statement on the club website thanking the fans and said 'if you can survive working with me, you can survive anything'.\n\nAfter leaving Leeds, Cellino returned to Italy and purchased Serie B Side Brescia. On 3 June 2017, Manager Roberto Boscaglia was appointed by Brescia as their head coach for the 2017–18 Serie B season. However, Cellino replaced him with Pasquale Marino on 12 October 2017, only a few weeks after the club's takeover by Cellino. On 16 January 2018, Cellino then re-hired Roberto Boscaglia as Head Coach, following Marino's firing. He was however sacked once again on 29 April, leaving Brescia in thirteenth place in the Serie B table. On 29 April 2018, Cellino appointed his 4th Manager of the 2017/18 season, by appointing Ivo Pulga as the new Head Coach after the dismissal of Roberto Boscaglia.\n\nCellino was arrested in February 2013 with the mayor of Quartu Sant'Elena, Mauro Contini, and the public works commissioner Stefano Lilliu, for attempted embezzlement and fraudulent misrepresentation following an investigation into the construction of the Stadio Is Arenas. Cellino was held in custody for over two weeks, in a case which remains unresolved. Cellino's arrest warrant called him a man of \"marked criminal tendencies ... capable of using every kind of deception to achieve his ends\". Cellino has two prior criminal convictions, for deceiving the Italian Ministry of Agriculture out of £7.5m in 1996 and for false accounting at Cagliari in 2001.\n\nCellino has a deep suspicion of the number 17, which is considered unlucky in Italian culture. At Cagliari's stadium Cellino had the number 17 removed from seats and replaced with 16b. Cellino also has a dislike for the colour purple, which is also considered unlucky in Italy, see Italian superstitions. On 15 May 2014, Leeds United retired the number 17 shirt due to superstitious reasons for Cellino. Up until June 2014, the last occupant of the shirt had been Michael Brown.\n\nHe plays guitar in the cover band Maurillos. On 3 May 2014, at Leeds United's annual end of season awards, Cellino joined the band The Pigeon Detectives on lead guitar for a cover version of Jimi Hendrix's song \"Hey Joe\".\n\nCellino has properties in Leeds and Miami, Florida. Cellino has a wife, Frances, and three children: two sons, Ercole and Edoardo who were directors at Leeds United, and a daughter Eleonora.\n"}
{"id": "1016906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1016906", "title": "Master of Management", "text": "Master of Management\n\nThe Master of Management (MM, MBM,MIM, MMgt) is a post-graduate master’s degree awarded to students who normally complete a one- to two-year program of graduate level coursework in business management at an accredited academic institution. As the program is designed for students interested in entering leadership roles, the degree attracts applicants from diverse academic disciplines. The MM program structure is similar to that of the Master of Business Administration, Master of Arts in Management, and Master of Science in Management degrees.\n\nThe MM structure varies from program to program, but typically adheres to the rigor of Management science. The mode delivery of the program can be full-time, part-time, distance-learning, accelerated, or executive. \n\nThe MM program for younger professionals with limited professional experience often resembles an MBA program. It typically prepares students to handle management issues in all areas of business with the option to concentrate or specialize in one area. Most programs begin with a set of required courses and then offer more specialized courses two thirds of the way through the program. Topics in the MM program often include those listed aside, while concentrations may focus on accounting, finance, business administration, international business/global management, marketing management, supply chain management, human resources, nonprofit management, and entrepreneurship. \n\nThe MM program for senior professionals with managerial experience (typically 10+ years) often resembles an Executive MBA (EMBA) program. It typically prepares students to handle the tasks associated with interdisciplinary business-related subjects such as ethical decision making, business law, global business values, workplace security, corporate crime, and employee motivation. These programs focuses on helping entry and mid level managers improve their management practice with cultural competence that enable them to function across England, Canada, India, China and Brazil.\n\nBusiness school admission committees normally evaluate applicants based on bachelor degree and GPA score (and graduate GPA if applicable), detailed resume, letters of recommendation, essays, and personal interviews. Based on these indicators, the committee decides if the applicant is suitable for the academic profile of the program, can demonstrate considerable leadership potential, and contribute positively to the student body of the school as a whole.\n\n"}
{"id": "32553662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32553662", "title": "Matthew Barnett (bookmaker)", "text": "Matthew Barnett (bookmaker)\n\nMatthew Frank Barnett (6 June 1859 – 28 January 1935), also known as Mat Barnett, was a bookmaker and philanthropist from Christchurch, New Zealand. In his retirement, he became well known in lawn bowls. He donated the statue of James Cook in Victoria Square to the city. His family dwelling, Wharetiki House, was a prominent landmark on Colombo Street in the Christchurch Central City until its demolition in July 2011, following a demolition order by the Canterbury Earthquake Recovery Authority.\n\nBarnett was born in Avoca, Victoria, Australia, in 1859. He came from a large family and had ten siblings. His parents were William Barnett, a merchant, and Rachel Barnett (née Mitchell). The family moved to Dunedin, New Zealand when Matthew was six as his father was attracted by the goldfields. He left school aged 13 or 14 and had a very brief employment as a photographer's apprentice, but did not like that profession. Instead, he was apprenticed to newspapers, first the \"Otago Guardian\" and later the \"Otago Daily Times\". He worked in that profession for about five years. For the next four years, he worked in farming in Otago and South Canterbury. When he came to Oamaru, he became the proprietor of the 'Star and Garter Billiard Rooms', where he had his first exposure to betting on horse races. He returned to Dunedin for some time.\n\nFrom there, Barnett's family returned to Melbourne for another two years. He worked as a swagman in Australia and then had employment as a tram driver in Melbourne for several months. In Melbourne, he married Mary Bridget Barnett (née Whelan) on 18 July 1888.\n\nMary's father James Whelan (1836–1908) immigrated to Castlemaine, Victoria from Ireland as a teenager. He married in 1858, but his wife died only ten months later. In 1862/63, James Whelan spent nine months on Otago goldfields during the Central Otago Gold Rush. He returned to Castlemaine and married Margaret Roughan in June 1863. They knew each other from Kilkishen, County Clare, Ireland and met in Melbourne by chance. Soon after, James returned to Otago, with Margaret following him later that year. Their first child, Mary, was born in Gabriel's Gully in ca 1864. The family moved to nearby Wetherstons and when the goldfields were exhausted (when Mary was twelve years old), the family moved to Dunedin.\n\nMary travelled to Melbourne to visit relatives of her parents. In that city, she married Matthew Frank Barnett.\n\nThe Barnetts had six children; five girls and one boy: \n\nSome time after their wedding, the couple moved to Otago to farm. Barnett's brother Thomas (Tom) had a business relationship with Peter Grant and they were placing racing bets together. Matthew Barnett joined them and for half a year, they worked together. After a substantial win, they dissolved their relationship and went on their own ways.\n\nBetting and bookmaking in the 1890s need to be seen in the then climate of moral and social change in New Zealand. Women's suffrage, temperance and anti-betting were strong movements, and gaming houses were banned, which included betting shops. Bookmakers responded to the situation by giving themselves titles like 'commission agents' and 'turf accountants'. Parliament was strongly lobbied by the pro-betting faction and consequently left decisions to the local level. Beginning with the Canterbury Trotting Club in 1897, racecourses responded by banning bookmakers from their properties. Those not adhering to the ban were being arrested and fined. Christchurch City Council passed a by-law in 1899 and banned bookmaking in public. Legislation was finally passed in 1908, banning gaming in public places and making it illegal for racing clubs to accept bets by telephone. An amendment to the Gaming Act in 1910 banned bookmaking altogether.\n\nIt was in this climate that Matthew Barnett formed a partnership 'Barnett and Grant'. It came about because Peter Grant had been banned from a racecourse for refusing to leave. Barnett, who had earlier been banned from the same course for life, but who had managed to get that decision overturned, offered to Grant to bet on a joint account. A win of £100 resulted and although the two never formalised their partnership, their further wins in this first year ran into the thousands. Luck left them, and after the second year they had lost all their earnings again. Luck was with them again, and some time after Grant's wedding in February 1896, they had sufficient capital to add a branch in Christchurch to their existing betting shop in Dunedin. Initially, the Dunedin business had to financially support the Christchurch branch, but under Barnett's business leadership in Christchurch, the situation changed and Christchurch supported the Dunedin branch. The Christchurch premises were in the central city at 174 Hereford Street, and from 1905 on the opposite side of the road at 163 Hereford Street.\n\nBarnett and Grant were banned from racecourses, e.g. in Palmerston in 1892 and in Dunedin in 1894. They had frequent encounters with law enforcement, and they were arrested numerous times. Their Dunedin branch was searched by Police and Barnett, Grant and two employees arrested in September 1897. Between 1901 and 1904, they were arrested three times, including in January 1902, their Christchurch office was raided by Police, with the case going to court the following month. The case went to a jury trial, but all the witnesses refused to give evidence, as they would have incriminated themselves by doing so, as it was illegal to visit a gaming house. Without any witness statements, the jury delivered a not guilty verdict. For a 1906 raid of the Christchurch office, the Police had previously sent an undercover agent to the office to place a bet in order to have some evidence for a court case.\n\nIn 1909, Barnett was convicted of having published horse betting details in his publication \"Daylight\" that violated the Gaming Act 1908. He appealed the conviction and it was overturned by Justice Sim as being erroneous in point of law. With the passing of the 1910 amendment to the Gaming Act, Barnett decided to officially retire as a bookmaker, but it is likely that he continued to work underground.\n\nBarnett's weekly sport magazine \"Daylight\" was taken over by \"The Press\".\n\nBarnett's younger brother had been apprenticed as a draper. In 1903, he established a drapery store Arthur Barnett in Dunedin. Matthew Barnett guaranteed a £900 loan to get the business going. It developed into the leading drapery store in Otago. Matthew Barnett retained a business interest and became chair of the board. At his death, his son Olly took that role, and he in turn passed the chairmanship to his son Gary. The Arthur Barnett department store developed into a national chain. At its peak in the 1980s, it had 19 stores and 1,200 employees.\n\nIn 1901, Barnett bought a large section in the Christchurch central city, fronting onto Salisbury and Colombo Streets. A large family home, which he named Wharetiki, was built by 1904. The address was 854 Colombo Street, and his friend and business partner Peter Grant had a house built nearby at 901 Colombo Street two years later. Wharetiki was a large and representative dwelling, displaying the wealth of its owner. It had several servants and Mary Barnett's unmarried younger sister Maria (known as Polly) was in charge of them.\n\nMary's father suffered a brain injury in 1888 and spent the remaining 20 years of his life at Seacliff Mental Hospital. When he died in 1908, his wife Margaret and the children who were still at home moved to a different house in Dunedin, but later on she and her second youngest child, Bill, moved to Christchurch to live at Wharetiki. Margaret Whelan made many spontaneous trips back to Dunedin when she got nostalgic and would stay there for a few weeks at a time, but she would otherwise live at Wharetiki for the rest of her life.\n\nMary Barnett fell ill in 1930 and was confined to a wheel chair. The back stairs of Wharetiki House were replaced with a lift at that stage, so that she could move around the house.\n\nAfter Matthew Barnett's death, the remaining family members put the house up for auction in May 1935. It existed until 2011, when it was demolished after suffering significant damage in the February 2011 Christchurch earthquake. Wharetiki House was registered by the New Zealand Historic Places Trust as a Category II heritage building.\n\nOn journeys from Christchurch to Dunedin, Barnett would throw half-crowns to the swagmen working on the roads, as he would remember the hard times that he had when he worked on the roads in Victoria.\n\nIn 1928, Barnett funded an architectural competition for a statue commemorating the three journeys of James Cook to New Zealand. William Trethewey (1892–1956) won this competition and was chosen as the sculptor; this was his biggest commission in his career so far. A 12-ton block of Carrara marble was imported for this work. Barnett also funded the sculpture itself, which was unveiled on 10 August 1932 in Victoria Square by the Governor-General, Lord Bledisloe. This commission brought Trethewey much publicity, including coverage on Movietone News. The Cook Statue is registered as a Category II heritage item by Heritage New Zealand.\n\nIn his retirement, Barnett had started to play lawn bowls, and he became well known both as a player and administrator. In bowling circles, he was known as Mat Barnett. The Canterbury Bowling Club was only 100 m down the road on Salisbury Street. Since the early 1900s, Canterbury and Wellington had an annual competition. In 1924, Barnett commissioned a tiki as a trophy for this tournament and he personally supervised the carving. The mahogany carving was presented at the Canterbury Bowling Club in February 1925. The first annual competition with the Barnett Tiki was held a few days later in Wellington and was won by Christchurch. Whilst it was decided that the winning team should hold the Tiki until the next competition, the trophy was left in Wellington after the first competition in 1925.\n\nMargaret Whelan died on 24 February 1926 at Wharetiki, aged 89. She was buried at Bromley Cemetery in block number 27. Mary Barnett died on 1 March 1931 at Wharetiki, aged 66. She was buried at Bromley Cemetery in block number 24 in plot 1 two days later. Matthew Barnett died on 28 January 1935, aged 75, also at Wharetiki. He was buried next to his wife the following day. There are white marble chippings scattered on their grave, which are remnants from the production of the Cook Statue.\n\nThrough his will, Matthew Barnett left £35,000 to his brother Arthur as a guarantee for his business.\n"}
{"id": "46713145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46713145", "title": "Matías Campiani", "text": "Matías Campiani\n\nMatías Campiani is an American-educated Argentine businessman. He is a former partner of Leadgate, a private equity firm. He is also the former CEO of PLUNA, the national airline of Uruguay.\n\nCampiani was imprisoned in Uruguay without charges from December 2013 to May 2015.\n\nGustavo Herrero, executive director of the Harvard Business School Latin American Research Center, told \"The New York Times\" that local politics were to blame for the imprisonment of Campiani and his private equity partners, stating they were “ideal scapegoats.” A \"Mercero Press\" report covering the Pluna imprisonment stated that there was a “political” side to Leadgate. According to this article, when Pluna Leadgate was launched in 2007, Agriculture Minister and future president José Mujica allegedly said: “I don’t like the looks of these cocky Argentines from Buenos Aires.”\n\nIn May 2015, the Supreme Court of Uruguay took up Campiani's appeal for release from jail. He was released on May 22, 2015. No formal charges have been filed against Camipani, as of May 2016.\n\nCampiani holds a master's degree in Industrial Management from Carnegie Mellon University and a BA degree in Finance and Economics from Universidad Católica Argentina.\n"}
{"id": "1549362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1549362", "title": "Nasher Sculpture Center", "text": "Nasher Sculpture Center\n\nOpened in 2003, the Nasher Sculpture Center is a museum in Dallas, Texas, that houses the Patsy and Raymond Nasher collection of modern and contemporary sculpture. It is located on a site adjacent to the Dallas Museum of Art in the Dallas Arts District. \n\nPatsy and Raymond Nasher began collecting sculpture in the 1950s. Together they formed a comprehensive collection of masterpieces by Harry Bertoia, Constantin Brâncuși, Alexander Calder, Raymond Duchamp-Villon, Paul Gauguin, Willem de Kooning, Mark di Suvero, Alberto Giacometti, Barbara Hepworth, Ellsworth Kelly, Henri Matisse, Joan Miró, Henry Moore, Claes Oldenburg, Pablo Picasso, Auguste Rodin, Richard Serra, and David Smith, among others.\n\nIn 1997, Raymond Nasher acquired a plot of land in downtown Dallas across the street from the Dallas Museum of Art and hired architect Renzo Piano to design the Nasher Sculpture Center. The Nasher Foundation funded the entire $70 million cost of designing and constructing the museum, which includes indoor and outdoor galleries. The Sculpture Center opened in 2003 and features a regularly changing exhibition of works from the Raymond and Patsy Nasher Collection. By placing the facility on what was formerly part of the old Caruth family farm of circa 1850, Ray Nasher began the realization of the Arts District in Dallas, which has since been enhanced by the construction of the Winspear Opera House and the Wyly Theater.\n\nRenzo Piano, winner of the Pritzker Prize in 1998, is the architect of the Center's building; he had been selected after Nasher met him at the opening of the Beyeler Foundation in Basel, Switzerland, in 1997. Piano has designed several critically acclaimed art museums; foremost among them are the Beyeler Museum in Basel, the Menil Collection in Houston, and Georges Pompidou Centre in Paris (in collaboration with Richard Rogers). He has been praised as an architect who has the genius to meld art, architecture, and advanced engineering to create some of the most remarkable museums in the world.\n\nPiano worked in collaboration with landscape architect Peter Walker of PWP Landscape Architecture on the design of the Garden. Walker has exerted a significant impact on the field of landscape architecture over a four-decade career. The scope of Mr. Walker's landscape projects is expansive and varied. It ranges from small gardens to new cities, corporate headquarters and academic campuses to urban plazas.\n\nThe building was constructed by The Beck Group, which also served as associate architect.\n\nThe facility opened in 2003 in a 55,000-square-foot building on a 2.4-acre site adjacent to the Dallas Museum of Art. Reflective glare of the nearby Museum Tower, constructed in 2012, comes in through the glass roof, putting portions of the collection at risk of damage.\n\nThe museum has two levels: the ground level houses three galleries, institute offices, a boardroom and a gift shop. The garden terraces downward to the auditorium, creating an open-air theatre.\n\nThe Nasher Sculpture Center features rotating exhibitions drawn from the Nasher Collection as well as special exhibitions in its indoor and outdoor galleries. Among the major exhibitions organized by the Nasher are Matisse: Painter as Sculptor, the first Matisse sculpture retrospective in the U.S. in 20 years; Tony Cragg: Seeing Things, the first major U.S. museum exhibition of the artist in 20 years; and Variable States: Intention, Appearance, and Interpretation in Modern Sculpture, an exhibition and symposium on sculpture conservation organized in conjunction with the Getty. The Nasher Sculpture Center has also presented Jaume Plensa: Genus and Species; Alexander Calder and Contemporary Art: Form, Balance, Joy; and Ken Price Sculpture: A Retrospective.\n\nMonthly events include \"Target First Saturdays\" for children and families, \"Til Midnight\" featuring Al Fresco dining, twilight strolls, bands and movies, and the \"NasherSalon\" series which welcomes distinguished speakers for an evening of discourse on art, architecture, and other cultural topics of interest. The Nasher Sculpture Center also participates in the Block Party Series together with the Dallas Museum of Art, the Crow Museum of Asian Art, and others in the Dallas Arts District.\n\nAnn Veronica Janssens / Piero Golia with Ann Goldstein / Mai-Thu Perret / Martha Thorne / Agents, Advisors, Devils and Apostates: A New Art World, Panel Discussion / Plaster: Medium and Process, Panel Discussion / Kathryn Andrews / Michael Dean / Rachel Rose\nMelvin Edwards / Stories from the French Sculpture Census / Iván Navarro / Jonathan Hammer / Phyllida Barlow with Tyler Green / Philip Beesley / Giuseppe Penone / Alex Israel / Edmund de Waal\nThomas Heatherwick / Anna-Bella Papp / Sarah Thorton / Tony Tasset / David Bates / Not Vital / Bettina Pousttchi / Mark Grotjahn / Tod Lippy / Liz Glynn\nMark Dion / Ken Price Sculpture Panel / Heather Cook / Matthew Collings / Nathan Mabry / Liz Larner / Katharina Grosse / Lewis Kachur / Analia Saban / Return to Earth Symposium / Nasher XChange Panel / Make Art with Purpose Panel / Charles Long with Tyler Green\nElliott Hundley / Tony Feher / Trenton Doyle Hancock / Erick Swenson / Ernesto Neto / Joseph Havel / The Art Guys / Kathryn Andrews / Lawrence Weiner / Catherine Craft / Eva Rothschild\nCharles Renfro / Jessica Holmes/ Alfredo Jaar / A Conversation on Statuesque / Charles Long / Aaron Curry and Thomas Houseago / Annette Lawrence / Heather Rowe / Tony Cragg / Diana Al-Hadid / Lawrence Weschler/ Dore Ashton with Michael Corris\nMichael Craig-Martin/ Adam Silverman and Nader Tehrani / William Jeffett / Allegra Pesenti / Linda Ridgway / Evan Holloway / Rick Lowe / Richard R. Brettell and Joachim Pissarro / Michael Corris / Antony Gormley / Alexander Calder and Contemporary Art Panel\n\n\nTo celebrate its 10th anniversary, the Nasher Sculpture Center presented Nasher XChange from October 19, 2013 to February 16, 2014. Nasher Sculpture Center Director Jeremy Strick stated that \"Nasher XChange\" focused on public art, which engages the people and culture of Dallas. The Nasher XChange exhibition was made possible in part by an award from the National Endowment for the Arts, Art Works, and a grant from the Texas Commission on the Arts.\n\nThe Nasher Prize was announced in April 2015.\n\nDoris Salcedo was born in 1958 in Bogotá, Colombia, her current residence.\nHuyghe was born in 1962 in Paris, he lives and works in Chile and New York.\n\n\nJeremy Strick has been the Director of the Nasher Sculpture Center since March 2009. Mr. Strick oversees collections, exhibitions, and operations at the 2.4 acre museum located in the heart of downtown Dallas’ Arts District.\n\n\nDavid J. Haemisegger and Nancy A. Nasher serve on the Board of Directors of the Nasher Sculpture Center, a museum founded in 2003 by Nancy's father, Raymond D. Nasher, which houses the Raymond D. and Patsy R. Nasher Collection of Modern and Contemporary Sculpture. Nancy worked closely with her father on the creation and development of the Sculpture Center. David currently serves as President of the Nasher Sculpture Center, and is on the Finance and Audit Committees. David and Nancy serve on the Nasher Foundation Board.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8793641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8793641", "title": "Nick Firestone", "text": "Nick Firestone\n\nNicholas Stanley Firestone (born March 31, 1966) is an American former race car driver.\n\nA great-grandson of Harvey Samuel Firestone (founder of the Firestone Tire and Rubber Company) and Idabelle Smith, grandson of Roger (1912–1970) and son of Peter, he graduated from Princeton University in 1989.\n\nStarting in Karts he moved to junior formula cars then the British Formula 2 Championship. He competed in 42 Indy Lights races from 1993 to 1996. His best finish was second at Nazareth Speedway and The Milwaukee Mile in 1993. He attempted to qualify for the 1999 Indianapolis 500 for McCormack Motorsports but failed to make the field. He has now moved back to racing Karts. He has two children, Peter and Annabel.\n\n"}
{"id": "1053261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1053261", "title": "Pat McDonagh (businessman)", "text": "Pat McDonagh (businessman)\n\nPatrick \"Pat\" McDonagh is the founder and owner of Supermac's, a major Irish fast food franchiser. A former school teacher, he is now a multi-millionaire.\n\nPat is a native of Co. Galway, where he lives with his wife Una. He was educated at Carmelite College, Moate, County Westmeath, and Mary Immaculate College, Limerick.\n\nPat earned the nickname ‘Supermac’ whilst playing Gaelic football for the Carmelite College in Moate. This then became the natural choice of name for his business, “Supermac’s”.\n\nHe founded Supermac's in Ballinasloe, County Galway, Ireland in 1978 after failing to get planning permission to build a pool hall. He has expanded the franchise to over 105 stores across Ireland. Pat is joined on the board of directors by his wife Una, who is also actively involved in the running of the business.\n\nHe also owns numerous business ventures in the food and customer service industry. Among these are the Claddagh Irish Pubs, a casual Irish pub-themed chain in the United States, founded in 2001. In 2006 Pat bought the Franchise Rights for Papa John’s Pizza in Ireland. There are now over 63 Papa John’s Pizza outlets throughout the country. 2014 saw Pat establish SuperSubs salad and sandwich bars which provide Supermac’s customers with additional healthy options.\n\nPat’s newest ventures include travel plazas across Ireland including The Barack Obama Plaza off the M7 at Moneygall, Tipperary Town Plaza (Limerick Road), Mallow N20 Plaza (Limerick Road) and Junction 16 Kiltullagh Plaza (Opening early 2016). Pat has further increased his business portfolio with the recent purchase of The Killeshin Hotel, Portlaoise and the Charleville Park Hotel, Cork which follow on from the current success of the Loughrea Hotel & Spa, Galway and the Castletroy Park Hotel, Limerick which were bought and developed in 2014 and 2012 respectively. Pat also owns property around the country.\n\nPat is a keen sports fan, having a particular interest in GAA. This love of sport has seen Supermac’s sponsor many sports teams including Galway Hurling Teams, Connacht Rugby, Galway Camogie Teams, the Irish Rowing Squad and local sports clubs around Ireland. Pat and Una are also strong supporters of charities and of the Arts in Ireland. Supermac’s currently sponsors 114 sports teams, arts organisations and charities throughout the country. Most recently Supermac’s have taken on the sponsorship of Galway Football and Galway Ladies Football. Supermac’s is the first company to be worn on both the hurling and football Galway jerseys. Now in its 25th year of sponsoring Galway Hurling, Supermac’s has put in the region of €3 million into the sport locally. In 2018 it was announced that Supermac’s would renew its sponsorship of Galway GAA for a further five years in a deal worth €2 million.\n"}
{"id": "43692378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43692378", "title": "Paul Clemente", "text": "Paul Clemente\n\nPaul Clemente (born May 19, 1963) is an American politician who served in the Michigan House of Representatives from 2011 to 2016. He represented the 14th district which includes Lincoln Park, Riverview, Melvindale and Wyandotte in the Downriver section of Wayne County.\n\nClements is a lifelong resident of the district where his parents owned and operated Clemente's Bar, Restaurant and Bowling Alley. It closed in 2010 after 60 years in business. By that time, Clemente was a co-owner and manager.\n\nPrior to being elected, Clemente was an accountant at Coopers & Lybrand.\n\nClemente, his wife, and three children live in Lincoln Park.\n"}
{"id": "46366820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46366820", "title": "Philip W. Bell", "text": "Philip W. Bell\n\nPhilip Wilkes Bell (1924–2007) was an American accounting scholar and professor of accounting, known for seeking \"to bring accounting and economics closer together.\"\n\nBell was born in 1924 in New York City to Samuel D. Bell and Miriam Wilkes Bell. He obtained his BA in Economics from Princeton University in 1947, his MA in Economics from University of California, Berkeley in 1949, and back at Princeton his PhD in international economics in 1954 under guidance of Jacob Viner with the thesis, entitled \"The Sterling Area in the Post-War World.\"\n\nIn World War II Bell had served as pilot in the U.S. Air Force, and back in the States he was correspondent for The New York Times in the year 1946–1947. In 1952 he started his academic career as Assistant Professor in economics at Haverford College. After other academic positions in economics at the University of California, Berkeley and Boston University, in 1978 he was appointed William Alexander Kirkland Professor of Accounting and Economics at Rice University.\n\nBell developed his interest in international economics, especially international financial flows, development economics and economic development. He was consultant for the U.S. Departments of Treasury and State, the U. S. Agency for International Development, and among others for the Kenyan government. He was inducted into the Accounting Hall of Fame in 2003.\n\n\nArticles, a selection:\n\n"}
{"id": "1377972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1377972", "title": "Princess Lalla Asma of Morocco", "text": "Princess Lalla Asma of Morocco\n\nPrincess Lalla Asma of Morocco (, born 29 September 1965, Rabat) is the second daughter and third eldest child of Hassan II of Morocco and his second wife, Lalla Latifa Hammou.\n\nShe was educated at the Royal College (Rabat).\n\nShe married Khalid Bouchentouf on 5 November 1986. He is a son of Hajj Belyout Bouchentouf, of Casablanca.\n\nThey have two children, a son and a daughter:\n\n\nShe is Honorary President in Morocco of:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4663606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4663606", "title": "RSM US", "text": "RSM US\n\nRSM US LLP is an audit, tax, and consulting firm, focused on the middle market in the United States and a member of the global accounting network RSM International. It is the fifth largest accounting firm in the United States. The firm has over 9,000 employees across 90 cities nationwide providing audit, tax, and consulting services. \n\nThrough RSM Global, the firm brings an affiliation of 75 independent accounting firms with 215 locations in 38 states and Puerto Rico. RSM Global brings together more than 43,000 professionals from 800 offices located in more than 120 countries.\n\nThrough a partnership in 1999 with H&R Block, McGladrey operated under two separate legal entities:\n\n\nMcGladrey & Pullen operated under the traditional partnership structure as most accounting firms, specializing in audit and attest services. RSM McGladrey was established under the partnership agreement with H&R Block to provide tax and advisory services under an alternative practice structure.\n\nIn August 2011, H&R Block announced it was ending its partnership and divesting RSM McGladrey to McGladrey & Pullen, reuniting the firms in a traditional partnership structure. McGladrey & Pullen acquired all employees, assets, and infrastructure from RSM McGladrey. The deal closed on December 1, 2011.\n\nIn May 2012, McGladrey & Pullen officially changed its name to McGladrey LLP. The change took effect at the start of the new fiscal year, May 1. In July 2012, McGladrey changed its headquarters from Bloomington, Minnesota to Chicago. On October 26, 2015 McGladrey LLP changed its name to RSM US LLP. McGladrey was an original founding member of RSMi in 1964 (being the \"M\" in RSM).\n\nRSM US sponsors three professional golfers: PGA Tour professionals Zach Johnson, Chris DiMarco, and Davis Love III. It also sponsors a PGA Tour event, the RSM Classic, and European Tour players Paul Lawrie and Andy Sullivan.\n"}
{"id": "2899318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2899318", "title": "Robert J. Beck", "text": "Robert J. Beck\n\nRobert J. Beck (born 1961) is an educator and scholar of international law and international relations.\n\nBorn in Milwaukee, Wisconsin and educated at Marquette University High School, Beck received an Honors B.A. \"Magna Cum Laude\" (Political Science, History, Latin), Phi Beta Kappa, from Marquette University in 1983. He received MA (1985) and PhD (1989, with distinction) degrees in International Politics from Georgetown University's Department of Government. Beck also participated in law institutes at New York University's School of Law, the University of Virginia's School of Law, and Dartmouth College.\n\nAn Associate Professor of Political Science at the University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee, Beck also teaches in the Global Studies degree program. In addition, he currently serves as UWM's Associate Vice Chancellor and Chief Information Officer.\n\nFrom 2003-2013, he was Chief Information Officer of UWM's College of Letters and Science. From 2000 until July 2011 he served as Director of Academic Technology at UWM's Center for International Education. From 1998-2000, he served as Director of Tufts University's Center for Teaching Excellence. Beck earlier taught at the University of Virginia (Government & Foreign Affairs, 1989–90, 91-98) and the University of Minnesota (Political Science, 1990–91).\n\nBeck maintains two noteworthy websites: Learning Objects; and Foreign Affairs Online. Beck has been a regular scholarly collaborator with his long-time friend, Anthony Clark Arend. Since 2003, he has also been a regularly featured guest on the television series, \"International Focus\", produced by the Institute of World Affairs at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7952406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7952406", "title": "Service science, management and engineering", "text": "Service science, management and engineering\n\nService science, management, and engineering (SSME) is a term introduced by IBM to describe service science, an interdisciplinary approach to the study, design, and implementation of service systems – complex systems in which specific arrangements of people and technologies take actions that provide value for others. More precisely, SSME has been defined as the application of science, management, and engineering disciplines to tasks that one organization beneficially performs for and with another.\n\nToday, SSME is a call for academia, industry, and governments to focus on becoming more systematic about innovation in the service sector, which is the largest sector of the economy in most industrialized nations, and is fast becoming the largest sector in developing nations as well. SSME is also a proposed academic discipline and research area that would complement – rather than replace – the many disciplines that contribute to knowledge about service. The interdisciplinary nature of the field calls for a curriculum and competencies to advance the development and contribution of the field of SSME.\n\nIn national economic statistics, the service sector is often defined as whatever is not agriculture or manufacturing (service sector – tertiary sector of the economy (Colin Clark)). Intuitively, services are processes, performances, or experiences that one person or organization does for the benefit of another – such as custom tailoring a suit, cooking a dinner to order, driving a limousine, mounting a legal defense, setting a broken bone, teaching a class, or running a business's information technology infrastructure and applications. In all cases, service involves deployment of knowledge, skills, and competences that one person or organization has for the benefit of another (Lusch & Vargo), often done as a single, customized job. And in all cases, service requires substantial input from the customer or client (Sampson) – how else could your steak be customized for you unless you tell you waiter how you want it prepared? In general there are so-called front-stage and back-stage activities in any business transaction – front stage being the part that comes in contact with the customer and back stage being the part that does not (Teboul). Service depends on having a high degree of front-stage activities to interact with the customer, whereas traditional manufacturing requires very little customer input to the production process and depends almost entirely on back-stage activities.\n\nThere are many definitions of service in the literature. Here are a few:\n\nHistorically, service scholars emphasized customization, but the world is changing. One of the contributions of SSME may be to help service managers to achieve standardization and its more sophisticated sibling, assembly of standardized modular service elements in several \"customizable\" but highly predictable permutations. Many customers seek and value standardization because it reduces variability and usually helps bring prices down. Services in the digital economy employ standardization and mass customization. A new service definition might focus on the technical nature of modern-day service, rather than on explaining away why service productivity is not doing as well as manufacturing, so that we can do something to advance the service economy.\n\nNot all services require substantial input from the customer – one of the motivations for outsourcing in electronic commerce contexts (both b2b and b2c) is to hire another person or organization to do work that an individual or corporate entity doesn't want to do (or lacks the skills, knowledge, physical capabilities or equipment to perform). Particularly in areas such as maintenance, cleaning, and repair, the customer's goal may be to become involved as little as possible, preferring to leave it to the experts to determine what needs to be done. In such instances, the front-stage is pretty small. Yet when teaching service, there's a risk of spending too much time on discussing the high-contact, customizable services that we enjoy using ourselves and not nearly enough in studying and researching the more \"boring\" but fast growing areas in b2b where much of the action is highly repetitive, often substantially automated, and takes place primarily behind the scenes.\n\n\"Service system\" is a term that frequently appears in the service management, service operations, services marketing, service design, and service engineering literatures.\n\nService involves both a provider and a client working together to create value. A doctor interviews a patient, conducts some tests, and prescribes some medicine – the patient answers the questions, cooperates with the tests, and ingests the medicine faithfully. Perhaps technologies and other people are involved in the tests or in the assignment and filling of prescriptions. Together, doctor, patient, others, and technologies co-create value – in this case, patient health. These relationships and dependencies can be viewed as a system of interacting parts. In many cases, a service system is a complex kind of system – a system in which the parts interact with each other in a non-linear manner. As such, a service system is not only the sum of its parts; complex interactions between the different parts create a system which behaves in a difficult-to-predict set of patterns. In many cases, a main source of complexity in a service system is its people: the client, the provider, or other organizations.\n\nService systems are designed and constructed, are often very large, and, as complex systems, they have emergent properties. This makes them an engineering kind of system (in MIT's terms). For instance, large-scale service systems include major metropolitan hospitals, highway or high-rise construction projects, and large IT outsourcing operations in which one company takes over the daily operations of IT infrastructure for another. In all these cases, systems are designed and constructed to provide and sustain service, yet because of their complexity and size, operations do not always go as planned or expected, and not all interactions or results can be anticipated or accurately predicted.\n\nThere is a long history of academic and industrial interest in the service sector – starting with Adam Smith and continuing right up to the present day. Yet most such interest in service has focused narrowly on marketing or management or economics. With the rise of technology-enabled services, many traditionally manufacturing-based companies have begun to see more and more revenue generated by service operations. So in industry, there was a growing recognition that service innovation is now as important – if not more important than – technology innovation. Yet, service innovation is generally unknown (save for a few economists studying the relationship between investment and innovation in service industries; e.g., GADREY & GALLOUJ).\n\nThe key to service science is interdisciplinarity, focusing not merely on one aspect of service but rather on service as a system of interacting parts that include people, technology, and business. As such, service science draws on ideas from a number of existing disciplines – including computer science, cognitive science, economics, organizational behavior, human resources management, marketing, operations research, and others – and aims to integrate them into a coherent whole. In fact, IBM relabeled its initiative in this area Service Science, Management, and Engineering to highlight the interdisciplinary nature of the effort. HP has created the Centre for Systems and Services Sciences for the same reason. Oracle Corp. working with IBM, joined in creating an industry consortium called the Service Research and Innovation Initiative focused on establishing what it calls \"service science\" as both a key area for investment by companies and governments and as a full-blown academic discipline.\n\nThe NESSI (Networked European Software and Services Initiative) group in the European Union has established a Services Sciences Working Group.\n\nDefinitions of 'service science' can be misleading. An analogy can be made with Computer Science. The success of CS is not in the definition of a basic science (as in physics or chemistry for example) but more in its ability to bring together diverse disciplines, such as mathematics, electronics and psychology to solve problems that require they all be there and talk a language that demonstrates common purpose. Services Science may be the same thing – just bigger – as an interdisciplinary umbrella that enables economists, social scientists, mathematicians, computer scientists and legislators (to name a small subset of the necessary disciplines) to cooperate in order to achieve a larger goal – analysis, construction, management and evolution of the most complex systems we have ever attempted to construct.\n\nUniversities have begun to act on the need for service science or SSME as well. For instance, UC Berkeley created an SSME program. And North Carolina State University created an MBA track for service and a computer engineering degree for services as well. In both cases, the schools recognize the interdisciplinary character of the field and incorporate content from a variety of disciplines. Other schools with interdisciplinary interests in SSME include Copenhagen Business School,Carnegie Mellon University, University of Maryland, Arizona State University, Northern Illinois University, UC Santa Cruz, San Jose State University, Utah State University, RPI, University of Manchester, Helsinki University of Technology (now as Aalto University), The University of Sydney, Rey Juan Carlos University in Spain, Karlsruhe Institute of Technology, National University of Singapore, Singapore Management University, Masaryk University, University of Milano Bicocca, a MBA in Services Sciences, Management And Engineering at Lusofona University – Information Systems School (Portugal), Design And Engineering Services at Senac University Center (Brasil), Geneva University and a MBA at Institute of Service Science National Tsing Hua University.\n\nAcademic publications in SSME are also starting to appear. For instance, see the special issue of the Communications of the ACM focused entirely on service science and IEEE Computer Steps Toward a Science of Service Systems.\nFor a framework for service ontology evaluation see.\n\n"}
{"id": "44462137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44462137", "title": "Small and Medium Business Administration", "text": "Small and Medium Business Administration\n\nThe Small and Medium Business Administration (, SMBA) was one of a small and medium industry organizations in South Korea and is run under the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy. The headquarters are in Seo District, Daejeon.\n\nFrom July 2017, Ministry of SMEs and Startups succeeds the organisation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22148596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22148596", "title": "Syed Ahmed (businessman)", "text": "Syed Ahmed (businessman)\n\nSyed Ahmed (; born 17 September 1974) is a Bangladeshi-born British entrepreneur, businessman and television personality. He is the founder and CEO of the British design and manufacturing hand dryer company SAVortex. He is best known for being a contestant in the 2006 series of \"The Apprentice\", where he was fired in Week 10.\n\nAhmed was born in Sylhet, Bangladesh. When he was nine months old, he moved with his parents to the United Kingdom and was brought up in East London in a devout Muslim family. He attended the Sir John Cass Redcoat School in Stepney from the age of 11 to 17 achieving 7 GCSEs. He then attended the Hammersmith College, where he achieved a BTEC in business and finance. He later managed restaurants, including the Titanic, part of the White Starline Group, owned by Marco Pierre White. He was in the Air Training Corps and dreamed of becoming an RAF pilot but decided to go into business instead.\n\nAhmed is currently the CEO of SAVortex, which specialises in high-speed, energy efficient hand dryers. Ahmed's development of the SAVortex technology was shown in an hour-long documentary, \"Hot Air\", broadcast on Sky. Ahmed initially financed the business himself. Ahmed was a director of the IT recruitment consultancy firm \"IT People\" until May 2006, and a director of Magenta Partnerships Limited from June 2006 until February 2007.\n\nHe has made speeches to the young business enterprise community, and the more general enterprise community in Britain.\n\nAhmed appeared as a candidate in series two of \"The Apprentice\", a British reality television show hosted by Lord Alan Sugar. The series was broadcast from February to May 2006. On the show Ahmed was a member of the \"Invicta\" team. He was a notable candidate on the show, but was fired in week 10.\n\nOne of his quotes on the show was a \"£100,000 salary is not enough but it's a good place to start.\"\n\nAhmed appeared on Sky News as a paper reviewer – reviewing current and forthcoming newspapers in a celebrity panel. He also has appeared on interviews, at BBC Breakfast with candidate Jo Cameron on the BBC, and also at GMTV on ITV. He appeared on Sky One's program called \"The Match\", where 80 celebrities take part to win a place in a celebrity football squad. Ahmed again appeared on another Sky One show, called \"Cirque de Celebrité\" (from October 2006), featuring celebrity circus acts, and he was voted off in the second week. He subsequently returned as a guest judge.\n\nA Sky One documentary (from June 2007) called, \"Syed Ahmed - Hot Air?\", featured Ahmed attempting to launch a new company which specialised in hand and body dryers, with £20,000 of his own money, to develop in three months. The program followed the launch of the SA Vortex's hand dryer products.\n\nIn December 2010, Ahmed was a host at the Spice times Restaurant Awards in Romford, Greater London. \n\nIn 2008, Ahmed organised and led a race in support of a breast cancer charity. He also sends money to families and charities located in Bangladesh. Ahmed was one of the four contestants with Secret Millionaires, who attended the Geared for Giving campaign to help promote the Workplace Giving, on May 2009. Ahmed also took part in a charity relay to raise money for children in Gaza. Gaza100, was held on 24 May 2009 in Mile End Park, east London, attracting over 1,500 people, which included also Apprentice candidates, Ghazal Asif and Tre Azam. He has also raised money from climbing a mountain and sent that money to Bangladesh villages water pumps for clean water \n\nIn January 2015, he was nominated for the Entrepreneur of the Year award at the British Muslim Awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "37256400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37256400", "title": "The Poor Pay More", "text": "The Poor Pay More\n\nThe Poor Pay More is a 1967 book published by David Caplovitz. It is a sociology study of what could be called the \"poverty penalty\", which is a concept that poor people pay more for the same goods and services as people with more money do.\n\nEsther Peterson cited the book as being important for understanding contemporary consumer problems.\n\nIn 2010 a researcher cited the book as still being relevant.\n"}
{"id": "24972100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24972100", "title": "Ukrainian Agency of Copyright and Related Rights", "text": "Ukrainian Agency of Copyright and Related Rights\n\nUACRR (Ukrainian Agency of Copyright and Related Rights) is a collective rights management organization in Ukraine. UACRR administers public performance rights, mechanical recording and reproduction rights, and dramatic rights. UACRR has been a member of CISAC (International Confederation of Societies of Authors and Composers) since 2001. UACRR is the only internationally recognized Ukrainian collecting society. It represents more than 6 thousand Ukrainian authors; more than 2.5 million foreign authors are represented due to reciprocal representation contracts concluded between UACRR and authors' societies worldwide. Thus, UACRR has the biggest music catalogue in Ukraine.\n\n"}
{"id": "5865429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5865429", "title": "Unfair preference", "text": "Unfair preference\n\nAn unfair preference (or \"voidable preference\") is a legal term arising in bankruptcy law where a person or company transfers assets or pays a debt to a creditor shortly before going into bankruptcy, that payment or transfer can be set aside on the application of the liquidator or trustee in bankruptcy as an unfair preference or simply a preference.\n\nThe law on unfair preferences varies from country to country, but characteristically, to set a transaction or payment aside as an unfair preference, the liquidator will need to show that:\n\nIn most countries, an application to have a transaction set aside as a preference can only be made by the liquidator or trustee in bankruptcy, as the person making the payment must be in bankruptcy, and thus they are not normally liable to lawsuits from other creditors.\n\nThe effect of a successful application to have a transaction declared as an unfair preference varies. Inevitably, the creditor which received the payment or assets has to return it to the liquidator. In some countries, the assets are treated in the normal way, and may be taken by any secured creditors who have a security interest which catches the assets (characteristically, a floating charge). However, some countries have \"ring-fenced\" recoveries of unfair preferences so that they are made available to the pool of assets for unsecured creditors.\n\nAn unfair preference has some of the same characteristics as a fraudulent conveyance, but legally they are separate concepts. There is not normally any requirement to prove an intention to defraud to recover assets under an unfair preference application. However, similar to fraudulent conveyance applications, unfair preferences are often seen in connection with asset protection schemes that are entered into too late by the putative bankrupt.\n\nMany jurisdictions provide for an exception in the case of transactions entered into in the ordinary course of business with a view to keeping the company trading, and such transactions are usually either validated or presumed to be validated.\n\n\nA preference in U.S. federal bankruptcy law is a transfer of property by a debtor to its creditor, on account of a pre-existing debt, that is made while the debtor is insolvent and gives the creditor more than it would obtain in a liquidation of the debtor's assets in a bankruptcy proceeding. It is primarily a creature of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, although some states have similar state laws. If the preferential transaction takes place within a specified period of time before the filing of bankruptcy by or on behalf of the debtor, then the debtor's trustee in bankruptcy is authorized to recover the property preferentially transferred. The mechanism of recovery is the avoidance of the transfer. After such avoidance, the recovered property becomes property of the bankruptcy estate. The period is usually 90 days. However, if the preferential transfer is made to an \"insider,\" then the period is one year. An \"insider\" is generally a relative or one who has the ability to control the activities of the debtor. The Bankruptcy Code provides some exemptions from these rules to accommodate transfers intended to be contemporaneous, made in the ordinary course of business or to the extent they are made for new value, and others.\n\nAll of the following examples assume that the requirements for a preference that are set out above exist at the time the transfer is made.\n\n\nUnder Swiss law, creditors who hold a certificate of unpaid debts against the debtor, or creditors in a bankruptcy, may file suit against third parties who have benefited from unfair preferences or fraudulent transfers by the debtor prior to a seizure of assets or a bankruptcy.\n\n"}
{"id": "47780073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47780073", "title": "University Council for Educational Administration", "text": "University Council for Educational Administration\n\nThe University Council for Educational Administration (UCEA) is a leading nonprofit, research-oriented, institutional-only member organization dedicated to improving the profession of educational administration. The organization was founded at Columbia University in the City of New York in 1954 by a group of fifteen universities concerned about the advancing the quality of educational leadership professionals and the state of the field. Today, membership includes almost 100 member schools, mostly from the United States, but also universities in Australia and Hong Kong. Many of the public universities in the Association of American Universities are also members of the UCEA. The organization is also notable for publishing the \"Educational Administrative Quarterly\", one of the leading research journals dedicated to educational administration.\n"}
{"id": "28923613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28923613", "title": "University of Detroit Mercy School of Law", "text": "University of Detroit Mercy School of Law\n\nThe University of Detroit Mercy School of Law is the law school of the University of Detroit Mercy and is located in Downtown Detroit, Michigan across from the Renaissance Center. Founded in 1912, Detroit Mercy Law is a private Roman Catholic law school and has been ABA-accredited since 1933. The Law School has an annual enrollment of about 536 students and currently has 88 faculty members (28 full-time, 60 adjunct).\n\nDetroit Mercy Law offers full-time, part-time and extended part-time JD programs as well as a number of dual degrees, including a J.D./M.B.A. and Dual J.D. program. In 2009, the Law School admitted about 45 percent of its 1,707 full-time applicants and about 40 percent of its 219 part-time applicants. The Law School's JD 2016 entering class had a median LSAT of 151 and a median GPA of 3.15 and a median LSAT of 155 and a median GPA of 3.312 for Dual JD students. In January 2012, Detroit Mercy Law purchased a 6,000 sq. ft. facility across the street from its campus which will house the numerous clinics operated by the school.\n\nDetroit Mercy Law was founded as the University of Detroit Law School in 1912 (the University of Detroit merged with Mercy College of Detroit in 1990 to become the University of Detroit Mercy). It is the oldest and most prestigious private law school in Michigan and it shares the Jesuit and Mercy tradition of value oriented education. The historic Renaissance-style campus is located between East Jefferson Avenue and East Larned Street just north of I-375 and is within a short walking distance to the Renaissance Center and numerous state and federal government buildings, including the Third Judicial Circuit Court (Wayne County) and the Federal District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan among others.\n\nAccording to Detroit Mercy Law's official 2013 ABA-required disclosures, 31.8% of the Class of 2013 obtained full-time, long-term, JD-required employment nine months after graduation. Detroit Mercy Law School Transparency under-employment score is 37.9%, indicating the percentage of the Class of 2013 unemployed, pursuing an additional degree, or working in a non-professional, short-term, or part-time job nine months after graduation.\nTuition and fees at University of Detroit Mercy School of Law for the 2016-17 academic year is $40,422 per year (for 30 credits).\n\nDetroit Mercy Law maintains a core first-year curriculum, consisting of Contracts, Civil Procedure, Property, Torts, Criminal Law, Introduction to Legal Research and Communication and Applied Legal Theory and Analysis (ALTA). Other required courses include Constitutional Law, Evidence, Federal Income Taxation, and Professional Responsibility.\n\nThe School's clinical program was founded as the Urban Law Clinic in 1965, and was among the earliest clinics in the nation. Since that time, the program has received numerous awards including the ABA Louis M. Brown Award for Legal Access with Meritorious Recognition in 2012 and the ABA Law Student Division’s Judy M. Weightman Memorial Public Interest Award in 2006. Students attend weekly classes that focus on the relevant skills and substantive law and all clinics provide for meaningful guided reflection.\n\nThe Law School's main academic publication is the University of Detroit Mercy Law Review, having contributed to the legal scholarship of the state of Michigan and the nation since 1916. This student-led organization publishes four issues a year and hosts an annual symposium in the spring to discuss topics of developing legal significance and scholarly debate. Within the last ten years, Detroit Mercy Law Review articles have been cited in the opinions of the United States Supreme Court, United States Circuit Courts of Appeals, and many state supreme courts (including Michigan).\n\nThe School of Law hosts both an internal trial and appellate moot court competition annually known as the G. Mennen Williams Moot Court Competition. The school's Moot Court Team competes nationally and has had success both at the regional and national level: it was the National Champion for the 2009 National Invitational Appellate Moot Court Competition and the 2008 McGee Civil Rights National Moot Court Competition:\n\nGraduates of Detroit Mercy Law include over half of Michigan state prosecutors as well as sitting judges on the U.S. Courts of Appeals, U.S. District Courts, the Michigan Supreme Court, and the Michigan Court of Appeals. The School of Law has also graduated over 120 current judges on various district, municipal and probate courts in Michigan. Alumni have also held major elective offices in the state and local governments of Michigan, including three former mayors of the City of Detroit, two former Michigan Attorneys General, and a host of other executive positions.\n\nNotable judges from Detroit Mercy Law:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8051547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8051547", "title": "William Brockenbrough (judge)", "text": "William Brockenbrough (judge)\n\nWilliam Brockenbrough (July 10, 1778 – December 10, 1838) was a Virginia lawyer, political figure and judge of the Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals.\n\nBrockenbrough was born in Tappahannock in Essex County, Virginia, United States, the son of Dr. John Brockenbaugh and Sarah Roane. He attended the College of William and Mary in 1798. He studied law and then went into private practice. In 1802-03 he represented Essex County in the House of Delegates and became a member of the Council of State in May, 1803. His judicial career started when he was appointed as a judge of the general court on February 7, 1809. On February 20, 1834, he was appointed a judge of the Supreme Court of Appeals but died just four years later.\n\nIn 1806, he married Judith Robinson White and became the father of John White Brockenbrough. According to family history, Dolley Madison said, \"as a friend I find Mrs. Judith Brockenbrough unequalled.\" In 1814, following the burning of Washington by Admiral Cockburn, she and Dolley Madison saved what valuables they could from the White House before taking refuge at the Octagon House. Judith Brockenbrough's initials are scratched on a windowpane in an upstairs bedroom at Mount Vernon. William Brockenbrough's home in Richmond, at Fifth and Clay streets, was frequently visited by Chief Justice Marshall and other notable citizens of Richmond.\n\nOne son, John White Brockenbroug married Mary C. Bowyer and became a judge of the United States Court for the Western District of Virginia, founder and head of his own law school at Lexington, Professor in the Law School of Washington and Lee University, member of the Confederate States of America Congress, and a publisher of law decisions. One daughter, Mary, married another lawyer, Willoughby Newton. Another daughter, named Judith White after her mother, married Episcopal clergyman John P. McQuire and published her diary written during the American Civil War, \"The Diary of a Southern Refugee\".\n"}
{"id": "17002827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17002827", "title": "William S. Rukeyser", "text": "William S. Rukeyser\n\nWilliam S. Rukeyser (born 1939) is an American journalist who was the founding managing editor of \"Money\" magazine and managing editor of \"Fortune\".\n\nFrom its founding in 1998 until 2009 Rukeyser was editorial director of \"Corporate Board Member\" magazine, aimed at the directors of public companies. He also has appeared on television as a financial commentator on CNN Financial News and ABC.\n\nHe is the son of the late financial journalist Merryle S. Rukeyser and the younger brother of the late financial journalist and commentator Louis Rukeyser of \"Wall Street Week\" fame.\n\nRukeyser attended Princeton University, graduating with an A.B. degree in 1961. He also studied English literature as a graduate student at Christ's College, Cambridge University.\n\nAfter four years as a \"Wall Street Journal\" reporter in Europe, he started work at Time Inc. in 1967 as an associate editor of \"Fortune\". In 1968, he signed the \"Writers and Editors War Tax Protest\" pledge, vowing to refuse tax payments in protest against the Vietnam War. When \"Money\" was founded in 1972 he became its managing editor, and continued in that position for eight years before returning to \"Fortune\" as its managing editor. He was abruptly removed from that position in 1986 to make way for Marshall Loeb, of Time magazine. In 1988 he left Time Inc., to become editor in chief for Whittle Communications in Knoxville, Tennessee. In 1998 he became editorial director of the new magazine \"Corporate Board Member\", aimed at the directors of public companies. He continued in that role until 2009. He continues to devote his time to freelance editing and editorial consulting on projects such as \"The Partnership: The Making of Goldman Sachs\" by Charles D. Ellis (Penguin Press, 2008).\n\nRukeyser and his wife, Elisabeth, are residents of Knoxville, Tennessee, where he is chairman of University Health System Inc. and past chairman of the Knoxville Jazz Orchestra. He is also a director of the Overseas Press Club Foundation and a member of the advisory board of the Princeton University Press Club.\n"}
